Should Australia be burning rubbish for electricity?



Should Australia be burning rubbish for electricity?

Posted

There are some who believe Australia should be burning its residential and industrial waste for electricity rather than sending it to landfill.

Others, however, maintain that we should be concentrating on reducing the amount of refuse we create rather than burning it.

Waste-to-energy technology is used across the world, with countries including Japan, China and Finland burning rubbish to generate electricity.

The World Bioenergy Association's Andrew Lang said that, by contrast, Melbourne's waste was piling up in a "mountain" at Ravenhall in the city's west.

"All of that material could be producing, for Victoria, probably 500 megawatts of electricity if it was done with the efficient, best-practice systems," he told 774 ABC Melbourne's Jon Faine.

It comes as a Senate committee this week recommended the Federal Government adopt a national plan to manage the retirement of coal-fired power stations.

Planning Panels Victoria is due to report to the Minister for Planning in January regarding a proposal to expand the Ravenhall landfill.

Europe leading the way, says proponent

Mr Lang said there were more than 480 plants across Europe generating electricity by burning combustible, non-recyclable residential and industrial waste.

Countries including Germany, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands had invested heavily in the technology, he said.

He said Australian states such as Victoria could follow Europe's lead.

"Victoria is about the population of Denmark, and Denmark is putting 3.5 million tonnes of this sort of material into its waste-to-energy plants."

He said 20 per cent of central Copenhagen's electricity was generated from the waste of local residents, industries and commerce.

Emissions 'comparable' with natural gas

Mr Lang said he visited a waste-to-energy plant in Finland that processed 320,000 tonnes of rubbish from Helsinki's 1.5 million people.

"They've used that to replace natural gas coming out of Russia," he said.

He said the Helsinki plant was using state-of-the-art technology to filter its emissions.

"The emissions out of the stack were comparable to a gas-fired plant."

Waste-to-energy 'not the most sustainable option'

But sustainability advocate Joost Bakker said waste-to-energy plants were not the "easy fix" that many people thought they were.

He told 774 ABC Melbourne's Clare Bowditch that reducing the amount of packaging society consumes would have greater environmental benefits than burning rubbish.

"My point is we don't need to generate [the waste] in the first place."

During a recent trip to the Netherlands he said he learned there were moves to reduce the amount of rubbish sent to the country's waste-to-energy plants.

"Holland has started to realise that [burning rubbish] is not the most sustainable option," he said.

He said individuals could reduce the amount of rubbish they produced by buying food in bulk and avoiding disposable containers.

"It's also a mindset and a cultural change from us," he said.

"I think our children will say 'look at mum and dad, walking around with these stupid takeaway coffee cups, on their phones — we're not going to do that, we're going to do it differently'."

Topics: alternative-energy, sustainable-living, recycling-and-waste-management, human-interest, melbourne-3000