Older Viewers and Conservatives Are Watching Less NFL, Survey Finds
Older Viewers and Conservatives Are Watching Less NFL, Survey Finds


ENLARGE A new survey found a range of explanations for the decline in NFL TV ratings. Photo: Zuma Press

Explanations for this year’s sagging National Football League TV ratings have ranged from competition with election coverage to an overload of prime-time games to impatience with commercials.

A survey of 2,088 people by Morning Consult finds evidence for all those theories. It also shows declines in viewership among older viewers and those with conservative political views.

Year-over-year viewership has declined more for people over 45 years old than people 18 to 45. Some 24% of respondents 45 to 54, for example, said they are watching some or much less football this year, compared to a 16% drop for people 30 to 44.

Interest in the election certainly played a part in keeping viewers away from the games. The survey, done earlier this month, found that 16% of respondents were somewhat or much less likely to have watched football because of election coverage including debates.

As for political leanings, conservatives are watching less football this season compared to last season versus other political groups. Some 28% of conservatives said they were watching some or much less NFL, versus 20% for moderates and 16% for liberals.

The survey did not explore why older and conservative viewers might be losing more interest than other groups this season and whether protests by players during the playing of the national anthem are a factor.

Older viewers cited political coverage less frequently than their younger counterparts as playing a part in their decision to not watch football.

One caveat to the analysis: people in specific age groups or with particular political views represent a subset of the overall survey group, and therefore the data on them is produced from smaller sample sizes.

NFL ratings have been soft this season for its three prime-time franchises on Sunday, Monday and especially Thursday. Much of the blame has been put on election and post-election coverage that has filled the airwaves this fall.

Fewer commercials and shorter broadcasts could boost viewership, the survey said. Of those surveyed, 43% said they would be much more or somewhat more likely to watch games if there were fewer commercials. To be sure, the amount of commercials in NFL games is pretty much the same as last year when ratings were higher.

Thursday Night Football is clearly a challenge for the NFL. The survey indicates that 22% of people only tune in if their favorite team is playing, compared to 17% on Sundays.

The NFL said earlier this week it remains committed to Thursday football in response to ongoing speculation that the league will scrap the franchise or scale back the number of games on that night.

The NFL did not respond to a request for comment on the survey.

Write to Joe Flint at joe.flint@wsj.com