5 Dead, 7 Injured After Tornadoes in Alabama and Tennessee
5 Dead, 7 Injured After Tornadoes in Alabama, Tennessee
Shares               At least five people have died and seven have been injured after severe weather and reported tornadoes tore across the states of Alabama and Tennessee early Wednesday, destroying dozens of structures, including a 24-hour daycare facility . The National Weather Service confirmed three fatalities after a reported tornado destroyed homes and businesses in the town of Rosalie.  5:12am CST #SPC_MD 1855 tornado watch 511, #tnwx  #ncwx  #gawx  #alwx  #mswx , https://t.co/ZyYnjX2M4v  pic.twitter.com/vEkbpwqdAM  About 15 to 20 structures were destroyed, including the Macklin Baptist Church and Rosalie Plaza, a convenience store, gas station and strip mall, according to the weather service and Rocky Harman, chief deputy of the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office. Images of the devastation show structures caved in or smashed down to the foundation. There were also several injuries, one of them critical, Harman said. The weather service said it received several preliminary reports of tornadoes in Alabama.  Storm damage across central Alabama (photos, video) #alwx  https://t.co/zqvOz7mwDa  pic.twitter.com/n4CGi4ZKin  Another reported tornado wounded multiple people, including the four children in critical condition, after ripping through a 24-hour daycare near the town of Ider along Highway 117, the National Weather Service said. Ider Christian Daycare Academy was "completely destroyed," the weather service said. Images on social media showed children's toys strewn across a floor with no roof or walls surrounding it.    Shares                  5 Dead, 7 Injured After Tornadoes in Alabama, Tennessee   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   ANALYSIS: Finding the Loyalists in Trump's Administration   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level   Hundreds Protest White Nationalist at Texas A&M University   China Warns US on Taiwan Leader's Planned Transit   Innovation or Monopoly? Panel Looks at ATT-Time Warner Deal   FBI: 'No Evidence' LA Metro Terror Threat Credible   Attorney: Park Service Quashing Dissent During Inauguration   Men Left 'to Die': Gen. James Mattis' Controversial Wartime Decision   Everything You Need to Know About Gen. James Mattis   Witness to Fatal Will Smith Shooting Says Suspect Showed 'No Remorse'   Wife of Slain NFL Star Breaks Down on Witness Stand   Therapy Pig LiLou at San Francisco Airport Helps People Fly   Winter Health Hazards: Tips on Surviving Icy Temps   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'

At least five people have died and seven have been injured after severe weather and reported tornadoes tore across the states of Alabama and Tennessee early Wednesday, destroying dozens of structures, including a 24-hour daycare facility.

The National Weather Service confirmed three fatalities after a reported tornado destroyed homes and businesses in the town of Rosalie.

About 15 to 20 structures were destroyed, including the Macklin Baptist Church and Rosalie Plaza, a convenience store, gas station and strip mall, according to the weather service and Rocky Harman, chief deputy of the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office. Images of the devastation show structures caved in or smashed down to the foundation.

There were also several injuries, one of them critical, Harman said.

The weather service said it received several preliminary reports of tornadoes in Alabama.

Another reported tornado wounded multiple people, including the four children in critical condition, after ripping through a 24-hour daycare near the town of Ider along Highway 117, the National Weather Service said.

Ider Christian Daycare Academy was "completely destroyed," the weather service said.

Images on social media showed children's toys strewn across a floor with no roof or walls surrounding it.

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.

ABC News' Dominic Proto and Rachel Katz contributed to this report.