Lil Wayne's Tour Bus Driver Is Suing Birdman And Young Thug Over 2015 Shooting
Lil Wayne's Tour Bus Driver Is Suing Birdman And Young Thug Over 2015 Shooting
In April of 2015, Lil Wayne’s tour bus was attacked by gunfire following his performance at a nightclub in Atlanta. Shortly after, Birdman and Young Thug were accused of conspiring to kill Wayne in the attack, which was carried out by Jimmy Carlton Winfrey—better known as Peewee Roscoe. Winfrey was later sentenced to 10 years in prison in November 2015 after pleading guilty to firing at the bus, which was carrying Wayne and his crew. And now, over a year since the incident went down, Weezy’s bus driver has filed a lawsuit against the people who were allegedly behind it. reports that Alvin Lewis is suing Winfrey, Young Thug, and Birdman, as well as Cash Money Records and Young Money Records, for the mental anguish he suffered after being caught in the crossfire. In his suit, Lewis said Winfrey placed calls to both Birdman and Thug before and after the shooting went down on Interstate 285. He said neither of the rappers "repudiated Winfrey’s heinous acts.” Birdman has since denied any involvement. Though no one was injured in the shooting, Winfrey’s suit states the incident caused $20,000 in bus damages. He also said he “suffered and continues to suffer substantial and continuing pain […] suffering, discomfort, medical expenses, lost personal and professional property, and lost wages.” He is seeking unspecified financial damages.

In April of 2015, Lil Wayne’s tour bus was attacked by gunfire following his performance at a nightclub in Atlanta. Shortly after, Birdman and Young Thug were accused of conspiring to kill Wayne in the attack, which was carried out by Jimmy Carlton Winfrey—better known as Peewee Roscoe. Winfrey was later sentenced to 10 years in prison in November 2015 after pleading guilty to firing at the bus, which was carrying Wayne and his crew. And now, over a year since the incident went down, Weezy’s bus driver has filed a lawsuit against the people who were allegedly behind it.

Courthouse News reports that Alvin Lewis is suing Winfrey, Young Thug, and Birdman, as well as Cash Money Records and Young Money Records, for the mental anguish he suffered after being caught in the crossfire. In his suit, Lewis said Winfrey placed calls to both Birdman and Thug before and after the shooting went down on Interstate 285. He said neither of the rappers "repudiated Winfrey’s heinous acts.”

“Defendants placed plaintiff in immediate fear of death and severe bodily harm by attacking and attempting to kill him without any just provocation or cause,” the complaint states.

Birdman has since denied any involvement.

Though no one was injured in the shooting, Winfrey’s suit states the incident caused $20,000 in bus damages. He also said he “suffered and continues to suffer substantial and continuing pain […] suffering, discomfort, medical expenses, lost personal and professional property, and lost wages.” He is seeking unspecified financial damages.