A right royal friendship! Queen Maxima of the Netherlands and Queen Mathilde of Belgium dazzle in jewel tones as they step out together in Utrecht
Queen Maxima and Queen Mathilde visit Utrecht


They have been inseparable over the past two days and today Queen Maxima and Queen Mathilde looked closer than ever.

Maxima of the Netherlands and Mathilde of Belgium shared a warm embrace as they met up ahead of their engagement in the Dutch city of Utrecht this afternoon.

Mathilde, 43, is now on her second day of her three-day state visit to Amsterdam with her husband King Philippe.

Maxima of the Netherlands and Mathilde of Belgium shared a warm embrace as they met up ahead of their engagement in the Dutch city of Utrecht this afternoon

And while the Queens husbands King Willem-Alexander and King Philippe have been spending time together Mathilde and Maxima have barely left each others sides.

The glamorous royals have been upping it in the style stakes over the past two days with each day proving to be a fashion face off.

However, today it seemed that the two royals may have been swapping fashion tips as they stepped out in very similar ensembles.

It seems that the pair may have been swapping style tips stepping out in very similar outfits

On Wednesday both Mathilde and Maxima opted for for jewel colours as they headed to Amsterdam station to board a train to Utrecht

Both Queens opted for a statement hat and a pair of suede gloves for their engagement

On Wednesday both Mathilde and Maxima opted for for jewel colours as they headed to Amsterdam station to board a train to Utrecht.

Maxima, 45, looked ravishing in an amethyst ensemble pairing a rich purple dress with a plum coloured coat.

Meanwhile Mathilde stunned in a Topaz coloured dress coat with turquoise lace detailing.

Both women opted for a small velvet statement hat that complemented their ensembles and a pair of matching suede gloves.

Proving just a popular as one another both Queens were gifted with a bouquet of flowers from their adoring public

Always in high spirits Maxima good be seen giving their hundreds of well-wishers a royal wave this afternoon

Queen Maxima and Queen Mathilde wave to the public as they travel by train from Amsterdam Central Station to Utrecht Central Station

Once they arrived at Utrecht station the pair were given a tour of the vicinity

The pair met with the mayor of Utrecht while exploring the station this afternoon

The two royals also investigated the expansive bike shed located in the station

Always in high spirits Maxima good be seen giving their hundreds of well-wishers a royal wave this afternoon.

Proving just a popular as one another both Queens were gifted with a bouquet of flowers from their adoring public.

Once they arrived at Utrecht station the pair were given a tour of the vicinity pictured investigating the bike shed as well as the ticket hall.

During her engagement this afternoon Queen Mathilde met with chefs at the Sligro Food Group where she looked a little unsure of their creations

There to mark an oficiall opening of a new food lab, the Queen was eventually persuaded to try some of the delicacies

With the help of one of the chefs Mathilde enjoyed sampling the dishes this afternoon

Today marks Mathilde's second day in the Netherlands with tomorrow seeing the King and Queen of Belgium return home.

Last night both the royal couples attended a concert in Amsterdam.

Queen Maxima of the Netherlands stunned in a strapless emerald green gown, while Queen Mathilde of Belgium sparkled in a glitzy burgundy number on Tuesday evening.

Earlier in the day, Mathilde and Máxima, 45, were both looking their elegant best as they paid a visit to a welfare organisation in the Dutch capital, before moving onto The Hague.

Queen Maxima of the Netherlands, second from left, and Queen Mathilde of Belgium, left, attended a concert in Amsterdam with King Willem-Alexander and King Philippe

Maxima stunned in a strapless emerald green gown, while Mathilde sparkled in a glitzy burgundy number

Mathilde opted for a bold scarlet ensemble made up of a tailored coat dress and a broad-rimmed hat.

She offset the bold colour palette with neutral accessories, wearing a pair of cream Mary Janes and a matching clutch.

Meanwhile Máxima, 45, went for a preppy look with a purple velvet long-sleeved top and a tartan skirt, throwing on a camel coat to ward off the winter chill.

Queen Máxima of the Netherlands, left, and Queen Mathilde of Belgium, right, were both looking their elegant best as they paid a visit to a welfare organisation in Amsterdam

After making a typically stylish entrance, the pair spent time talking to youngsters inside and enjoyed a spot of lunch. Staff had laid out a special spread in their national colours

The royal duo were paying a visit to Rooms with Opportunities, part of a welfare organisation called Combiwel.

It prepares young people who have left school early for independent living, by offering them a job or to earn a diploma.

After making a stylish entrance, the pair spent time talking to youngsters inside and enjoyed a spot of lunch.

(L-R) Queen Mathilde, King Philippe, Prime Minister Mark Rutte, King Willem-Alexander The foursome later visited the Hall of Knights in The Hague

Staff had put on an extensive spread including plates of sweets in the national colours of their respective countries.

Once outside, they posed for more photographs alongside their husbands, King Philippe of Belgium, King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands.