Leah Remini's Reddit AMA reveals juicy secrets of Scientology
Leah Remini's Reddit AMA reveals juicy secrets of Scientology
Leah Remini , author of hosted a Reddit AMA to reveal juicy insights into the mysterious religion. On Tuesday, Remini declared herself an open book, encouraging users to ask her their burning Scientology -related questions and boy did she confess. The actress and comedian discussed her new eight-part series on A&E, and spilled some serious secrets on the religion she left behind after 30 years. SEE ALSO: Leah Remini's Scientology exposé gets premiere date on A&E The former star held nothing back when it came to answering questions about the church abusive's practices, how the religion influenced her time in Hollywood and how she feels after having removed herself from the toxic environment. On unconventional practices of the "Church" Remini shared that all discussions in the Scientology "therapy rooms" are recorded with the intention of using them to discredit those brave enough to speak out. She also touched upon the presence of abuse in the organization. Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit When questioned whether or not the "higher ups" really believe in the practices, Remini declared that while she believes most people who work for the church are in the dark, the man in power "definitely knows" Scientology is a scam. Image: screengrab/reddit On Scientology and Hollywood Over the years, more prominent Hollywood figures have become publicly associated with the religion, creating a connection in many people's minds between Scientology and the entertainment industry. Remini spoke on how the practices influenced her career, how her career influenced the treatment she received within the church, and, of course, the "Messiah," Tom Cruise. Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit On life after Scientology Though Remini left the church in 2013, she shared the belief that she will never be rid of its members. She confidently expressed the belief that her every move is still being watched (including the Reddit AMA), and admitted publicly that her time spent with the church literally cost her millions of dollars. Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit Image: screengrab/reddit On her hopes for the future When asked about where she sees Scientology in 50-100 years, she simply shared her hopes that the group's abusive practices come to an end. Image: screengrab/reddit BONUS: Just One Thing: Choosing the right influencers

Leah Remini, author of Troublemaker: Surviving Hollywood and Scientology, hosted a Reddit AMA to reveal juicy insights into the mysterious religion.

On Tuesday, Remini declared herself an open book, encouraging users to ask her their burning Scientology-related questions and boy did she confess.

The actress and comedian discussed her new eight-part series on A&E, Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath, and spilled some serious secrets on the religion she left behind after 30 years.

The former King of Queens star held nothing back when it came to answering questions about the church abusive's practices, how the religion influenced her time in Hollywood and how she feels after having removed herself from the toxic environment.

On unconventional practices of the "Church"

Remini shared that all discussions in the Scientology "therapy rooms" are recorded with the intention of using them to discredit those brave enough to speak out. She also touched upon the presence of abuse in the organization.

When questioned whether or not the "higher ups" really believe in the practices, Remini declared that while she believes most people who work for the church are in the dark, the one man in power "definitely knows" Scientology is a scam.

On Scientology and Hollywood

Over the years, more prominent Hollywood figures have become publicly associated with the religion, creating a connection in many people's minds between Scientology and the entertainment industry.

Remini spoke on how the practices influenced her career, how her career influenced the treatment she received within the church, and, of course, the "Messiah," Tom Cruise.

On life after Scientology

Though Remini left the church in 2013, she shared the belief that she will never be rid of its members. She confidently expressed the belief that her every move is still being watched (including the Reddit AMA), and admitted publicly that her time spent with the church literally cost her millions of dollars.

On her hopes for the future

When asked about where she sees Scientology in 50-100 years, she simply shared her hopes that the group's abusive practices come to an end.