Frenchs Forest high school may relocate to make way for high-rises in new northern beaches town centre



Frenchs Forest high school may relocate to make way for high-rises in new northern beaches town centre

Posted

The Forest High School on Sydney's northern beaches may have to make way for high-rise buildings as part of a plan for a new town centre.

Key points: Plan for new northern beaches town centre includes 2,200 new homes

Provision for up to 10 per cent affordable rental housing to support key workers

Frenchs Forest High School would relocate to nearby aquatic centre

The controversial Draft Hospital Precinct Structure Plan redesigns the precinct around the new Northern Beaches Hospital, which is under construction.

The plan, which has been released for public comment, suggests the 2,000-student school could relocate to the existing aquatic centre, nine minutes' drive away.

A new aquatic facility would then be built in the town centre.

If approved, the move would free up the former school grounds, adjacent to the hospital site, for a retail centre and buildings of up to 40 metres.

A spokesperson for the Department of Education said there was no educational need for the school to be relocated or rezoned.

"The community can be assured that the school will continue to exist on the current site, irrespective of any zoning, unless and until a new school is constructed," the spokesperson said.

"Any newly constructed school would need to be within a short distance from the current site."

The plan also details much anticipated rezoning proposals — which are likely to see the land value of streets around the hospital rise.

It shows single-storey detached houses would be able to morph into medium-density dwellings of between 11 and 40 metres in height.

The houses to the north of the hospital have been rezoned as residential and "additional uses", opening the street frontage to retail and service businesses.

Changes expected to deliver 2,200 homes, affordable housing

In all, the changes are predicted to deliver 2,200 new homes with up to 10 per cent to be affordable rental housing to support key workers such as nurses and health professionals.

The Northern Beaches Council said the plan would depend upon State Government pledges to provide road upgrades and a rapid bus transit service.

The New South Wales Government is investing $500 million to upgrade the roads around the new Northern Beaches Hospital.

The work proposed to be completed in time for the hospital opening in 2018.

The Council said the centre would not reach its full potential until a bus transit system was delivered, but there would only be an increased frequency bus service to begin with.

Topics: urban-development-and-planning, community-and-society, frenchs-forest-2086, north-sydney-2060, sydney-2000