Supreme Court's Latest National Anthem Conundrum + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Supreme Court's Latest National Anthem Conundrum + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Supreme Court's Latest National Anthem Conundrum + 5 Other Major Reads From Today The Supreme Court today ruled that all movie theaters should play the National Anthem before a film is screened, which should be followed the display of national flag on screen. The court also stated that everyone present in the cinema halls must rise and pay respect to the National Anthem. "Citizens must respect the national anthem and flag," the court said. The apex court, however, said that the anthem should not be commercially exploited or dramatised. Read more here Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Samba Terrorists Used Tunnel To Come To India. Their Plan Was Carry Out Attack Like Uri A day after three Pakistani terrorists were gunned down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near the international border in Samba, the forces have discovered a small tunnel, which they believe was used by the militants to infiltrate. The tunnel is close to 80 metres long. DG BSF, KK Sharma on Wednesday said that on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, in the general area of BSF Border Outpost Chamliyal in Samba, Jammu, some suspicious movement was noticed by thermal imagers. A BSF patrol was fired upon by the terrorists. The BSF retaliated and killed the three terrorists. Read more here 2. 7-Year-Old Girl Writes A Letter To Modi To Express Her Support For Demonetisation Shreya said that she wants a "neat and clean India." While the move enjoys massive support according to independent polls, it has also drawn criticism for its implementation. Banks and ATMs reportedly have not received enough currency supplies at par with demand, generating massive lines across India. Read more here 3. Man Waits With The Body Of His Wife As Bank Refuses To Give Him Cash To Cremate Her 65-year-old Munni Lal, a daily wage worker in Noida lived a nightmare when he had to sit in front of a bank for hours, with the body of his wife aside for cash to cremate her.

BCCL

The Supreme Court today ruled that all movie theaters should play the National Anthem before a film is screened, which should be followed the display of national flag on screen.

The court also stated that everyone present in the cinema halls must rise and pay respect to the National Anthem.

"Citizens must respect the national anthem and flag," the court said.

The apex court, however, said that the anthem should not be commercially exploited or dramatised. Read more here

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Samba Terrorists Used Tunnel To Come To India. Their Plan Was Carry Out Attack Like Uri

ANI

A day after three Pakistani terrorists were gunned down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near the international border in Samba, the forces have discovered a small tunnel, which they believe was used by the militants to infiltrate.

The tunnel is close to 80 metres long.

DG BSF, KK Sharma on Wednesday said that on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, in the general area of BSF Border Outpost Chamliyal in Samba, Jammu, some suspicious movement was noticed by thermal imagers. A BSF patrol was fired upon by the terrorists. The BSF retaliated and killed the three terrorists. Read more here

2. 7-Year-Old Girl Writes A Letter To Modi To Express Her Support For Demonetisation





A 7-year old girl has written a letter to PM Narendra Modi lauding his demonetisation move to curb black money. Shreya said that she wants a "neat and clean India."

While the move enjoys massive support according to independent polls, it has also drawn criticism for its implementation. Banks and ATMs reportedly have not received enough currency supplies at par with demand, generating massive lines across India. Read more here

3. Man Waits With The Body Of His Wife As Bank Refuses To Give Him Cash To Cremate Her

Twitter

65-year-old Munni Lal, a daily wage worker in Noida lived a nightmare when he had to sit in front of a bank for hours, with the body of his wife aside for cash to cremate her.

Munni Lal's wife Phoolmati had died of cancer on Monday, and he had no cash to perform her last rites.

He went to the nearby Bank of India branch where his elder son had an account with Rs 16,000 deposited in it.

But he was unable to withdraw cash to cremate his wife till Tuesday afternoon. Read more here

4. Three Army Officers Killed, 1 Critically Hurt As Chopper Crashes In West Bengal

Three army officers were killed while one Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was critically injured after Amry's Cheetah helicopter crashed in Sukna in West Bengal on Wednesday. According to police sources, the incident took place around 10:30 a m. Soon after the incident, army officials along with local rescue team rushed to the spot. Read more here

5. This Is How Two Brave Army Wives Averted The Hostage Situation In Nagrota Army Camp

AFP

The gunmen who had stormed into the Nagrota Army camp on Tuesday morning wanted to take as many people as possible as hostages. Their plans, which would have multiplied the magnitude of the attack, were averted due to the quick thinking and bravery shown by the wives of two army officials.

The terrorists tried to storm the family quarters where they could take the families of the soldiers and officers hostage.

But the two women who were staying in the family quarters along with their newborns acted swiftly using household items to prevent the terrorists from entering the residential area. Read more here