Jeff Fisher May Think Danny Woodhead Still Plays for the Patriots
Jeff Fisher May Think Danny Woodhead Still Plays for the Patriots
NFL coaches have a lot of information to remember, and thus it's understandable one may get confused every now and again. That is apparently what occurred with Los Angeles Rams head coach Jeff Fisher during a Wednesday conference call leading up to Sunday's game between the Rams and New England Patriots at Gillette Stadium. According to Hayden Bird On conference call, Rams HC Jeff Fisher said Danny Woodhead is a playmaker for the Patriots. Woodhead is on IR and plays for the Chargers It's widely assumed Fisher meant Danny Woodhead, who spent three seasons with the Patriots early in his career. Woodhead joined the San Diego Chargers in March 2013, and the Chargers placed him on injured reserve in September after he suffered a torn ACL. L.A. fans are surely hoping Fisher was just having a little fun during the call. [ Twitter ]

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

NFL coaches have a lot of information to remember, and thus it's understandable one may get confused every now and again.

That is apparently what occurred with Los Angeles Rams head coach Jeff Fisher during a Wednesday conference call leading up to Sunday's game between the Rams and New England Patriots at Gillette Stadium.

According to Hayden Bird of Boston.com, a reporter asked Fisher about New England's use of three running backs in games. Fisher mentioned both LeGarrette Blount and "Brandon," most likely Brandon Bolden.

On conference call, Rams HC Jeff Fisher said Danny Woodhead is a playmaker for the Patriots. Woodhead is on IR and plays for the Chargers — Matthew Cannata (@PhinsiderRadio) November 30, 2016

Fisher continued: "You’ve got to deal with him, in addition to Danny. You’ve got playmakers all around, so we have to play sound defense."

It's widely assumed Fisher meant Danny Woodhead, who spent three seasons with the Patriots early in his career. Woodhead joined the San Diego Chargers in March 2013, and the Chargers placed him on injured reserve in September after he suffered a torn ACL.

L.A. fans are surely hoping Fisher was just having a little fun during the call.

[Twitter]