Latest ONS immigration figures reveal a record number of EU migrants came to live in Britain in 2016
Latest ONS immigration figures reveal a record number of EU migrants came to live in Britain in 2016
ecord numbers of EU migrants came to Britain last year as more Romanians came to Britain than those from any other nation for the first time. The Office for National Statistics said an unprecedented 284,000 EU citizens arrived in the UK in the year to June, which covers a period up to and just after the referendum. The inflow of EU citizens has hit a historic high , while long-term migration to the UK has remained around record levels at a third of a million. ne in ten migrants have come from Romania, reflecting a huge rise since migration controls were lifted in 2014. EU net migration, which excludes UK citizens who went to other EU states, was at 189,000. The figures revealed that work is the most common reason for long-term immigration. stimated long-term net migration to the UK was at a near-record level of  335,000. This was just below the previous peak of 336,000 in the previous year. Immigration, which covers the numbers of people coming into Britain only, was at 650,000 – the highest estimate recorded. icola White, the ONS's head of International Migration Statistics, said: "Immigration levels are now among the highest estimates recorded  the inflow of EU citizens is also at historically high levels and similar to the inflow of non-EU citizens; there were also increases in the number of asylum seekers and refugees. "Immigration of Bulgarian and Romanian citizens continues the upward trend seen over the last few years and in 2015 Romania was the most common country of previous residence. "The main reason people are coming to the UK is for work, and there has been a significant increase in people looking for work particularly from the EU. "These long-term international migration figures run to the end of June, so it is too early to say what effect, if any, the EU Referendum has had on long-term international migration. "There does not however appear to have been any significant impact during the run-up to the vote." he latest figures follow reports that the numbers of EU nationals applying for British residency have soared since Brexit. The number of outstanding applications rose from 37,618 in June 2015 to almost 100,000 “currently in progress” in early July 2016. t came as sources close to Boris Johnson dismissed claims he privately told four European ambassadors he backs freedom of movement as a "total lie". Sky News reported that the Foreign Secretary reassured the diplomats he supported unrestricted migration across the bloc. ne ambassador told the broadcaster Mr Johnson had been "openly telling us" he was in favour of the policy. Another said: "He did say he was personally in favour of free movement, as it corresponds to his own beliefs. But he said it wasn't government policy. But sources sources close to Mr Johnson have labelled the reports a "total lie" and insisted he had "never said anything of the sort".

Record numbers of EU migrants came to Britain last year as more Romanians came to Britain than those from any other nation for the first time.

The Office for National Statistics said an unprecedented 284,000 EU citizens arrived in the UK in the year to June, which covers a period up to and just after the referendum.

The inflow of EU citizens has hit a historic high, while long-term migration to the UK has remained around record levels at a third of a million.