Bang & Olufsen's fancy Beoplay H9 headphones come with noise cancellation
Bang & Olufsen's fancy Beoplay H9 headphones come with noise cancellation
Bang & Olufsen's headphone selection was a little lacking so far: The company's flagship over-ear wireless headphones, the Beoplay H7 , don't have active noise cancellation. The Beoplay H8 have the feature, but they're a smaller, on-ear model. Now, the company has filled the gap with Beoplay H9, a set of stylish, over-ear wireless headphones with active noise cancellation. SEE ALSO: B&O BeoPlay H8: Fancy wireless headphones with slick gesture controls The Beoplay H9 are a dead ringer for the H7, down to the aluminum touch controls. The specs are also quite similar — 40mm drivers, 20 to 22,000Hz frequency range, Bluetooth aptX support — so it's fair to assume that they're basically the same model with the addition of active noise cancellation. There is one major difference: While the Beoplay H7 claims to have 20 hours of battery life while running only bluetooth, the H9 only has 16 hours (14 hours with active noise cancellation turned on). The battery is replaceable, which is a nice touch, not often seen on wireless headphones. B&O Beoplay H9 Image:  B&O The Beoplay H9 comes in two colors: Black and Argilla Grey, and are made of premium materials, including lambskin, cowhide leather and polished aluminum. The price, unfortunately, has gone up as well. Beoplay H9 costs $499, a hundred bucks more than the H7. You can purchase them on B&O's site . BONUS: Love them or hate them, wireless headphones will transform your workout game

Bang & Olufsen's headphone selection was a little lacking so far: The company's flagship over-ear wireless headphones, the Beoplay H7, don't have active noise cancellation. The Beoplay H8 have the feature, but they're a smaller, on-ear model.

Now, the company has filled the gap with Beoplay H9, a set of stylish, over-ear wireless headphones with active noise cancellation.

The Beoplay H9 are a dead ringer for the H7, down to the aluminum touch controls. The specs are also quite similar — 40mm drivers, 20 to 22,000Hz frequency range, Bluetooth aptX support — so it's fair to assume that they're basically the same model with the addition of active noise cancellation.

There is one major difference: While the Beoplay H7 claims to have 20 hours of battery life while running only bluetooth, the H9 only has 16 hours (14 hours with active noise cancellation turned on). The battery is replaceable, which is a nice touch, not often seen on wireless headphones.

B&O Beoplay H9 Image: B&O

The Beoplay H9 comes in two colors: Black and Argilla Grey, and are made of premium materials, including lambskin, cowhide leather and polished aluminum.

The price, unfortunately, has gone up as well. Beoplay H9 costs $499, a hundred bucks more than the H7. You can purchase them on B&O's site.