Donald Trump's infrastructure plan may put Canberra under pressure



Donald Trump's infrastructure plan may put Canberra under pressure

Posted

US President-elect Donald Trump may have backed away from building a wall along the Mexican border, but it is his enthusiasm for more traditional infrastructure which is now in focus.

The United States, which has an economy about 15 times bigger than Australia, is already planning to spend about $1.8 trillion in the six years to 2020, or about 36 times as much as Australia.

That is before Mr Trump's proposed building spree has even started.

Australia has one of the lowest public-sector debt ratios in the developed world, which is why the Reserve Bank and many economists have been urging the Government to take advantage of record low interest rates and borrow to build large scale income producing infrastructure.

It is a message which has fallen on deaf ears in a climate where both sides of politics argue that debt and deficits are always bad.

The prospect of the world's biggest economy having a major infrastructure spending spree, at the very least, will be a boon for firms involved in the construction sector.

While Canberra has been quick to pick up on some Trump initiatives, if the President-elect can pull off his infrastructure inspired boost to the economy, the Australian Federal Government may have little choice but to copy that too.

Need for cultural change in Canberra

Former federal Liberal Party leader and now a professor in the Crawford School of Public Policy at the Australian National University, John Hewson, said there needs to be cultural change in Canberra if Australia is to build the infrastructure it needs.

"Somebody's got to step out of the silly media game that they play every day, which is very short term, very opportunistic, very populist, mostly negative, you propose something — I oppose it," he told ABC News.

Mr Hewson said Australia's triple-A credit rating remains a big advantage in attracting investment.

According to this year's budget, Canberra is planning to spend $50 billion on infrastructure in the six years to 2020.

"If we created an infrastructure bond, a 30-to-50-year bond at a relatively low coupon rate, we'd get flooded with tens of billions, if not hundreds of billions of funding," Mr Hewson said.

One of the ways infrastructure spending boosts an economy is by what's known as the multiplier effect.

A good example is the proposed airport at Sydney's Badgerys Creek.

When and if the airport is built, it would attract other transport-related businesses like car hire companies and freight handling and thousands of people who would be part of the workforce.

"Through 10 years or so what started out as a $5 billion investment by the Government can easily turn into a $50 billion economy," said Matt Sherwood, head of investment strategy at Perpetual.

Topics: economic-trends, building-and-construction, money-and-monetary-policy, business-economics-and-finance, government-and-politics, australia, united-states