Serena Williams writes open letter to 'all women who strive for excellence'
Serena Williams writes open letter to 'all women who strive for excellence'
erena Williams has penned an inspirational open letter highlighting issues of inequality she has faced throughout her career. Addressing "all incredible women who strive for excellence", the tennis star writes: "Too often women are not supported enough or are discouraged from choosing their path. I hope together we can change that." In the letter, written for Porter Magazine’s Incredible Women of 2016 issue and republished by the Guardian , Williams describes her frustration with the continuing gender pay disparity, saying: “I know firsthand that I, like you, have done the same work and made the same sacrifices as our male counterparts. "I would never want my daughter to be paid less than my son for the same work. Nor would you.” She also reflects on the way she is frequently described as one of the “world’s greatest female athletes”, noting that stars such as Roger Federer and Tiger Woods never have a "male" qualifier attached to their achievements. "Why not?" she asks. "They are certainly not female. We should never let this go unchallenged. We should always be judged by our achievements, not by our gender." er letter, which can be read in full here , concludes: "It is my hope that my story, and yours, will inspire all young women out there to push for greatness and follow their dreams with steadfast resilience. We must continue to dream big, and in doing so, we empower the next generation of women to be just as bold in their pursuits." n a press conference earlier this year Williams was asked her thoughts about being described as "one of the greatest female athletes of all time, to which she replied : "I prefer the word 'one of the greatest athletes of all time'." Williams said she wants to  "see people, the public, the press, other athletes in general, just realise and respect women for who they are and what we are and what we do." When another reporter asked if she thought women deserve equal prize money, she replied: "Yeah, I think we deserve equal prize money. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, if you happen to write a short article, you think you don't deserve equal pay as your beautiful colleague behind you?"

Serena Williams has penned an inspirational open letter highlighting issues of inequality she has faced throughout her career.

Addressing "all incredible women who strive for excellence", the tennis star writes: "Too often women are not supported enough or are discouraged from choosing their path. I hope together we can change that."

In the letter, written for Porter Magazine’s Incredible Women of 2016 issue and republished by the Guardian, Williams describes her frustration with the continuing gender pay disparity, saying: “I know firsthand that I, like you, have done the same work and made the same sacrifices as our male counterparts.

"I would never want my daughter to be paid less than my son for the same work. Nor would you.”

She also reflects on the way she is frequently described as one of the “world’s greatest female athletes”, noting that stars such as Roger Federer and Tiger Woods never have a "male" qualifier attached to their achievements.