Boy, 15, charged with killing of Polish man in Harlow

Police and crime correspondent                                                A 15-year-old boy has been charged with the manslaughter of a Polish man killed in Harlow in August. Arkadiusz Jóźwik, 40, died after a late-night clash with a group of youths in the Essex town. The Crown Prosecution Service announced the charging decision and said five other youths arrested over the incident would face no criminal charges. Essex police said Jóźwik, 40, was attacked at about 11.35pm on Saturday 27 August. He was taken to the Princess Alexandra hospital, and was later transferred to Addenbrooke’s hospital in Cambridge, where he died two days later. The senior investigating officer DI Danny Stoten, of the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate, said: “The Crown Prosecution Service has now authorised Essex police to charge a teenager with manslaughter in connection with the death of Mr Jóźwik. He is due to appear at Chelmsford youth court on 6 January 2017.” It is understood that the CPS has decided it will not prosecute the case as a hate crime. There were concerns at the time of the death that the incident may have been a hate crime because it occurred at a time of heightened community tension in the aftermath of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union on 23 June. The factory worker, who had been living in England for four years, was knocked unconscious outside a row of takeaway shops. Shortly after the incident his brother, Radek, linked the death with a surge in hatred towards eastern Europeans after the Brexit vote. Such was the concern that Polish police officers were allowed to patrol Harlow alongside British officers. Paul Scothern, crown advocate in the complex casework unit for CPS East of England, said:“Following early investigative advice from the reviewing lawyer, the police decided to take no further action in relation to five other youths who were at the scene. “May I remind all concerned that this youth has a right to a fair trial. It is very important that there should be no reporting, commentary, or sharing of information online which could in any way prejudice these proceedings. For these reasons, it would be inappropriate for me to comment further.”

A 15-year-old boy has been charged with the manslaughter of a Polish man killed in Harlow in August.

Arkadiusz Jóźwik, 40, died after a late-night clash with a group of youths in the Essex town.

The Crown Prosecution Service announced the charging decision and said five other youths arrested over the incident would face no criminal charges.

Essex police said Jóźwik, 40, was attacked at about 11.35pm on Saturday 27 August. He was taken to the Princess Alexandra hospital, and was later transferred to Addenbrooke’s hospital in Cambridge, where he died two days later.

The senior investigating officer DI Danny Stoten, of the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate, said: “The Crown Prosecution Service has now authorised Essex police to charge a teenager with manslaughter in connection with the death of Mr Jóźwik. He is due to appear at Chelmsford youth court on 6 January 2017.”

It is understood that the CPS has decided it will not prosecute the case as a hate crime. There were concerns at the time of the death that the incident may have been a hate crime because it occurred at a time of heightened community tension in the aftermath of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union on 23 June.



The factory worker, who had been living in England for four years, was knocked unconscious outside a row of takeaway shops.

Shortly after the incident his brother, Radek, linked the death with a surge in hatred towards eastern Europeans after the Brexit vote.



Such was the concern that Polish police officers were allowed to patrol Harlow alongside British officers.

Paul Scothern, crown advocate in the complex casework unit for CPS East of England, said:“Following early investigative advice from the reviewing lawyer, the police decided to take no further action in relation to five other youths who were at the scene.

“May I remind all concerned that this youth has a right to a fair trial. It is very important that there should be no reporting, commentary, or sharing of information online which could in any way prejudice these proceedings. For these reasons, it would be inappropriate for me to comment further.”