Trump in Cincinnati: How to watch his first post-election rally live
Trump in Cincinnati: How to watch his first post-election rally live
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump attends a campaign event in Wilmington, Ohio, November 4,  2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  President-elect Donald Trump holds his first public events since his election night address, embarking on a tour of states that carried him to victory, starting with Ohio. Mr. Trump will visit Cincinnati Thursday evening with Vice President-elect Mike Pence for a rally that’s being billed by the presidential transition team as a “Thank You Tour.” Tickets were being offered to the public on the Trump-Pence website for those who want to see it in person. The president-elect, who has largely stayed at Trump Tower while preparing his transition to the White House, has not yet held a news conference since his election win. However, he announced Wednesday that he would hold a news conference with his children in mid-December about the details of his separation from his businesses. Before the rally, Mr. Trump will stop by Indiana to announce a major deal with air-conditioning and heating manufacturer Carrier. The company, which was expected to move its Indianapolis air-conditioning plant to Mexico (costing approximately 1,400 American jobs), said Tuesday that it had struck a deal with the incoming administration to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana. The president-elect previewed the Carrier deal in tweets earlier this week: I will be going to Indiana on Thursday to make a major announcement concerning Carrier A.C. staying in Indianapolis. Great deal for workers! Big day on Thursday for Indiana and the great workers of that wonderful state.We will keep our companies and jobs in the U.S. Thanks Carrier And on Tuesday, Carrier confirmed the agreement, saying more details were to come “soon.” We are pleased to have reached a deal with President-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy. More details soon. Here’s how to watch the victory rally live: What: The Trump-Pence “USA Thank You Tour 2016” When: 7 p.m. ET Where: U.S. Bank Arena in Cincinnati, Ohio Online: Viewers can stream the rally live on .                Tweet     Stumble     Email

President-elect Donald Trump holds his first public events since his election night address, embarking on a tour of states that carried him to victory, starting with Ohio.

Watch live on CBSN at 7 p.m. ET

Mr. Trump will visit Cincinnati Thursday evening with Vice President-elect Mike Pence for a rally that’s being billed by the presidential transition team as a “Thank You Tour.” Tickets were being offered to the public on the Trump-Pence website for those who want to see it in person.

The president-elect, who has largely stayed at Trump Tower while preparing his transition to the White House, has not yet held a news conference since his election win. However, he announced Wednesday that he would hold a news conference with his children in mid-December about the details of his separation from his businesses.

Before the rally, Mr. Trump will stop by Indiana to announce a major deal with air-conditioning and heating manufacturer Carrier.

The company, which was expected to move its Indianapolis air-conditioning plant to Mexico (costing approximately 1,400 American jobs), said Tuesday that it had struck a deal with the incoming administration to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana.

The president-elect previewed the Carrier deal in tweets earlier this week:

I will be going to Indiana on Thursday to make a major announcement concerning Carrier A.C. staying in Indianapolis. Great deal for workers! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016

Big day on Thursday for Indiana and the great workers of that wonderful state.We will keep our companies and jobs in the U.S. Thanks Carrier — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016

And on Tuesday, Carrier confirmed the agreement, saying more details were to come “soon.”

We are pleased to have reached a deal with President-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy. More details soon. — Carrier (@Carrier) November 30, 2016

Here’s how to watch the victory rally live: