New CBA ending All-Star link to World Series
Report: CBA ending All-Star link to World Series
Report: CBA ending All-Star link to World Series Wade Davis worth price tag of Jorge Soler for Cubs 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Cubs acquire closer Davis, send Soler to Royals O's GM rejects Bautista: 'Fans don't like him' Boras: New CBA will hurt MLB in Latin America Source: Rockies, Desmond agree to 5-yr deal Sale 'as excited as anybody' with Red Sox deal Source: Marlins agree to deal with catcher Ellis Winter Meetings Daily: What's next for K.C. after dealing Davis? Does winter meetings splash make Red Sox better than Cubs? As David Price vents on Twitter, Chris Sale shuts out the noise After surprising signing, how will Rockies use Ian Desmond? In baseball, player loyalty doesn't pay 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Fearless Dombrowski proves again he's one of baseball's boldest 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings A pennant, er, banner day for the Red Sox 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings In Cubs' shadow, White Sox start rebuild Giants 'the total package,' says closer Melancon Implications of blockbuster Chris Sale trade could affect Dodgers Joe Maddon contemplates message he'll give Cubs in 2017 Chris Sale the latest trade in the great prospect gamble game Home field in the World Series does matter, just not when you think Selig's Hall of Fame induction ignores the problems of his tenure Greinke, Sandoval among  high-priced vets who need to bounce back Yankees want Aroldis Chapman back, but on their own terms 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Bud Selig: 'Maybe I should have said more' about steroids 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Report: Reliever Rodney agrees to join D-backs Record $1 billion bet on MLB in 2016 As window closes on K.C.'s core, uncertainty reigns over Royals Five teams with the most work to do at the winter meetings 1 Related 2016 MLB hot stove Mike Greenberg's proposed MLB rule change aims to create fairness between the National and American Leagues, but Mike Golic isn't buying it. (1:51) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment NEW YORK -- The league that wins Major League Baseball's All-Star Game no longer will get home-field advantage in the World Series, which instead will go to the pennant winner with the better regular-season record. The change was included in MLB's tentative new collective bargaining agreement and disclosed early Thursday to The Associated Press by a person familiar with the agreement. The person spoke on condition of anonymity, because details of the deal -- reached Wednesday evening in Irving, Texas -- had not been announced. In addition, players and management agreed that the minimum stay on the disabled list will be reduced from 15 days to 10. This year's World Series punctuated the All-Star Game policy's effect when Game 7 was played in Cleveland instead of at Wrigley Field, after the Cubs finished the regular season with 103 wins, as compared to the Indians ' 94. The Cubs still won, ending their 108-year championship drought. Home-field advantage in the World Series generally rotated between the leagues through 2002. MLB, led by then-commissioner Bud Selig, and Fox television promoted the "This Time It Counts" innovation after the 2002 All-Star Game in Milwaukee ended in a 7-7, 11-inning tie when both teams ran out of pitchers. Selig was booed in his own Milwaukee backyard. "This energizes it. This gives them something to really play for," Selig said after owners approved the All-Star Game policy change by a 30-0 vote in January 2003. "People pay a lot of money to see that game. They deserve to see the same intensity they see all year long. Television people pay a lot of money for the game. It was not and should not be a meaningless exhibition game." What began as a two-year experiment was extended. The American League won 11 of 14 All-Star Games played under the rule, and the AL representative won eight World Series in those years. "It will put back a little of the sizzle," San Francisco Giants executive Larry Baer said in 2003. Now, as part of the changes for next year, players in the All-Star Game will have the incentive to play for a pool of money. Meanwhile, the DL change will allow teams to make quicker decisions on whether to bring up a roster replacement rather than wait to see if the injured player would be ready to return to action in less than two weeks. An international play plan is part of the new agreement that includes a payment schedule for potential games in Asia, Mexico, Latin America and Britain, in addition to U.S.-based special events, such as this year's July 3 game between Atlanta and Miami in a specially built ballpark on a military base in Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Mike Greenberg's proposed MLB rule change aims to create fairness between the National and American Leagues, but Mike Golic isn't buying it. (1:51)

NEW YORK -- The league that wins Major League Baseball's All-Star Game no longer will get home-field advantage in the World Series, which instead will go to the pennant winner with the better regular-season record.

The change was included in MLB's tentative new collective bargaining agreement and disclosed early Thursday to The Associated Press by a person familiar with the agreement. The person spoke on condition of anonymity, because details of the deal -- reached Wednesday evening in Irving, Texas -- had not been announced.

In addition, players and management agreed that the minimum stay on the disabled list will be reduced from 15 days to 10.

Editor's Picks Midsummer bummer? The All-Star Game now means nothing The new CBA means the All-Star Game no longer decides World Series home-field advantage. How will we ever live without a July exhibition that counts?

MLB, players' union reach new 5-year labor deal Negotiators for MLB players and owners reached an agreement on a five-year labor contract Wednesday, just hours before a midnight deadline.

Earth-shattering? Not quite, but new agreement generating buzz Some key points in baseball's new labor deal -- including a hard cap on international players -- already have the industry talking. 2 Related

This year's World Series punctuated the All-Star Game policy's effect when Game 7 was played in Cleveland instead of at Wrigley Field, after the Cubs finished the regular season with 103 wins, as compared to the Indians' 94. The Cubs still won, ending their 108-year championship drought.

Home-field advantage in the World Series generally rotated between the leagues through 2002. MLB, led by then-commissioner Bud Selig, and Fox television promoted the "This Time It Counts" innovation after the 2002 All-Star Game in Milwaukee ended in a 7-7, 11-inning tie when both teams ran out of pitchers. Selig was booed in his own Milwaukee backyard.

"This energizes it. This gives them something to really play for," Selig said after owners approved the All-Star Game policy change by a 30-0 vote in January 2003. "People pay a lot of money to see that game. They deserve to see the same intensity they see all year long. Television people pay a lot of money for the game. It was not and should not be a meaningless exhibition game."

What began as a two-year experiment was extended. The American League won 11 of 14 All-Star Games played under the rule, and the AL representative won eight World Series in those years.

"It will put back a little of the sizzle," San Francisco Giants executive Larry Baer said in 2003.

Now, as part of the changes for next year, players in the All-Star Game will have the incentive to play for a pool of money.

Meanwhile, the DL change will allow teams to make quicker decisions on whether to bring up a roster replacement rather than wait to see if the injured player would be ready to return to action in less than two weeks.

An international play plan is part of the new agreement that includes a payment schedule for potential games in Asia, Mexico, Latin America and Britain, in addition to U.S.-based special events, such as this year's July 3 game between Atlanta and Miami in a specially built ballpark on a military base in Fort Bragg, North Carolina.