Richard Sherman Waited 11 Months to Rip Cam Newton for Something He Did Last Season
Richard Sherman Waited 11 Months to Rip Cam Newton for Something He Did Last Season
Remember when Cam Newton ripped a Seahawks fan’s 12th Man flag out of his hands after a Seattle/Carolina playoff game last season and proceeded to throw it with a big smile on his face? Chances are, you’ve long forgotten about it. After all, Newton has made headlines for doing so many other things since then. But there’s one person who has most definitely forgotten about Newton’s blatant act of disrespect: Richard Sherman . On Sunday, the Panthers will travel to Seattle to play the Seahawks for the first time since the two teams met in the playoffs last season, and on Wednesday, Sherman was asked about the flag-throwing incident. Specifically, he was asked if he thought Newton crossed the line by taking the fan’s flag and chucking it, and he said he thinks Newton did. And in doing so, he also took a shot at Newton and the Panthers that he’s been patiently waiting to take for 11 months now. "Yeah, he probably did," Sherman said. "I guess karma gets you. It doesn’t look like you’re going to be in the playoffs this year." Ouch. The Panthers are just 4-7 so far this season and sitting in last place in the NFC South, while the Seahawks are 7-3-1 and sitting comfortably in first in the NFC West. But is that really because of karma? Probably not, but you have to give Sherman credit for being patient enough to wait almost a year to burn Newton over what he did.

Remember when Cam Newton ripped a Seahawks fan’s 12th Man flag out of his hands after a Seattle/Carolina playoff game last season and proceeded to throw it with a big smile on his face? Chances are, you’ve long forgotten about it. After all, Newton has made headlines for doing so many other things since then.

But there’s one person who has most definitely not forgotten about Newton’s blatant act of disrespect: Richard Sherman. On Sunday, the Panthers will travel to Seattle to play the Seahawks for the first time since the two teams met in the playoffs last season, and on Wednesday, Sherman was asked about the flag-throwing incident. Specifically, he was asked if he thought Newton crossed the line by taking the fan’s flag and chucking it, and he said he thinks Newton did. And in doing so, he also took a shot at Newton and the Panthers that he’s been patiently waiting to take for 11 months now.

"Yeah, he probably did," Sherman said. "I guess karma gets you. It doesn’t look like you’re going to be in the playoffs this year."

Ouch. The Panthers are just 4-7 so far this season and sitting in last place in the NFC South, while the Seahawks are 7-3-1 and sitting comfortably in first in the NFC West. But is that really because of karma? Probably not, but you have to give Sherman credit for being patient enough to wait almost a year to burn Newton over what he did.