Mother of Aleppo girl who tweeted for help says Syrian Army are TARGETING their family
Mother of tweeting Aleppo girl says Syrian Army are TARGETING family


Her mother has now claimed Syrian government forces are targeting them

The mother of an an Aleppo girl who found fame tweeting about the civil war from her home before it was destroyed says the Syrian Army are targeting their family.

Seven-year-old Bana Alabed has been posting messages from the ravage eastern area of the war-torn city with the help of her mother Fatemah.

One haunting image of the child's friend came along with the words: 'Oh dear world, I am crying tonight, this is my friend killed by a bomb tonight. I can't stop crying. - Bana.'

Now Fatemah has used the account to claim the pair are being targeted by the country's government forces because of the content of their messages.

Aleppo is in the middle of a brutal tussle between government forces, ISIS and rebels. Residents are pictured fleeing the city today

The mother of an an Aleppo girl who found fame tweeting about the civil war from her home before it was destroyed says the Syrian Army are targeting their family

'We are still alive': Bana Alabed posted a photo of herself hiding from bomb blasts in her home city of Aleppo

She wrote: 'Appeal to the world - I & Bana received death threats & we are convinced Syrian Army will target us soon because of our account and messages.'

Since join Twitter last September Bana has amassed close to 200,000 followers and frequently posts videos and photos of her grim life in Aleppo which is in the middle of a brutal tussle between government forces, ISIS and rebels.

There have been a number of airstrikes conducted by Russian forces in November on ISIS militants and rebels in support of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad and his government.

Earlier this month Bana uploaded a distressing video of herself hiding in the corner of a room while blasts can be heard going off outside.

Cruel ending: The horrifying image of Bana Alabed's friend who died during a bomb raid in the city dubbed the most dangerous in the world

She said: 'Someone save me now please.'

Earlier this year Bana received a number of Harry Potter novels directly from author J.K. Rowling after her mother made a request to the writer over Twitter.

The girl, who speaks basic English, tweeted a sweet thank you video for Rowling.

'Hello my friend, I started reading your books now, my heart is for you. Thank you,' she said.

Rowling replied back with a tweet saying: 'This made me so happy! Lots of love to you and your brothers!'

Innocence lost: A haunting Twitter account purports to show the horror of the bombing raids on Aleppo through the eyes of seven-year-old Bana Alabed (above)

Relentless: Bana, her mother and her brothers (pictured several years ago) are trying to survive the fiercest aerial onslaught since the Syrian civil war began

In an exclusive interview with MailOnline, Bana's mother Fatemah insisted the account was not 'propaganda' as she revealed details of the devastation around them: 'We live in hell. The sound of bombs wake us from our sleep. They have become our alarm clock.

'When the airstrikes come, my children cry and say the pilot wants to kill us.'

Other pictures on the account claim to show their next-door-neighbours' crumbling homes and smoke billowing from the latest explosion down the road.

'Four bombs hit us now just few steps away. Good afternoon from Aleppo,' reads one of her latest posts.

'Last year my school was bombed my friends killed injured. I was lucky to survive. I'm afraid of the bombing,' the Twitter goes on from Bana's point of view.

Former law student Fatemah lives with Bana, her husband Ghassan, 34, a former lawyer, and their two sons Mohamad, five, and Noor, three.

She says they share the flat with her sister and husband's family and cannot flee the city because they fear being caught up in an airstrike or picked off by snipers.

Meanwhile, about 30,000 people are receiving aid after fleeing the besieged eastern zone of Aleppo in the past few days, taking the total number of displaced people in the Syrian city to more than 400,000, U.N. special envoy Staffan de Mistura said on Thursday.

By Wednesday, about 18,000 people had been registered entering government controlled areas and about 8,500 crossing into Sheikh Maqsoud, the Kurdish-controlled zone of Aleppo, de Mistura's humanitarian adviser Jan Egeland told reporters. He said those figures were likely to have risen on Thursday.

Syria and Russia have declined the U.N.'s request for a pause in the fighting to evacuate 400 sick and wounded in need of immediate treatment, but Russia wants to discuss the idea of setting up four humanitarian corridors, he said.

'A humanitarian corridor can work if all the armed actors respect it,' Egeland said.

Aout 30,000 people are receiving aid after fleeing the besieged eastern zone of Aleppo in the past few days

The total number of displaced people in the Syrian city has now topped 400,000, it has emerged

The U.N. has food for 150,000 people ready in western Aleppo but it still cannot reach roughly 200,000 who remain in the enclave, where food stocks have run out and surgery is being done in basements without anaesthetic, he said.

The United Nations is scaling up its presence in western Aleppo to help with the aid effort but also to monitor the treatment of people fleeing the besieged zone.

'There are no more vulnerable people on earth probably than the civilian population in Aleppo,' said Egeland. 'And they are extremely vulnerable for possible actions by the armed opposition groups as they try to leave and by all of the groups that will meet them as they leave.'

The top priority remains a pause in the fighting, as well as finding shelter for people as winter begins, he said.

Egeland renewed his call for the members of the jihadist group formerly known as the Nusra Front to leave the besieged zone, which he said would help save lives and strengthen the argument for a ceasefire.