Doctor's father makes second epic journey in daughter's memory after snapping wrong penguin on 8,000-mile trip
Doctor's father makes second epic journey in daughter's memory after snapping wrong penguin on 8,000-mile trip
father whose doctor daughter died of cancer travelled 8,000 miles to photograph penguins in her memory, before having to make another international trip when he realised he had snapped the wrong ones. Roger Clark, 71, wanted to picture the same bird that was on a postcard sent to him by his daughter, Lisa, when she had gone on holiday to Australia. But when he returned from South Georgia and the Falklands , he compared his photos with the postcard - and realised the bird on the card was an emperor penguin not a king penguin as he had originally thought. Mr Clark, of Chandlers Ford, Hampshire, ignored medical advice then to make a 10,000-mile journey to Antarctica . When he finally found and photographed the penguins caring for their chicks, Mr Clark said he was "overwhelmed with emotion" and rang his wife on a satellite phone to share the moment before writing his daughter's name in the snow. isa, who worked as an A&E consultant, left Mr Clark and her mother Lynette £20,000 in her will for them to go on holiday after they promised they would do the travelling she was unable to complete before she died of ovarian cancer in October 2012. In her final days, 40-year-old Lisa had told them that not travelling even more was her one regret in life. Mr Clark, who worked in marketing before he retired, said: "Lisa did a lot of travelling, she was involved in a charity project in Nicaragua, she delivered a baby for the first time – which was then named after her – in Tonga, and she loved the Maldives. "It was after Lisa had her daughter Lucy, who is now six, that she began to feel ill. "She was working at Glastonbury Festival as a clinic lead with Festival Medical Services in 2011, and we were there too. I remember watching Lisa's favourite band Coldplay and Lisa was writhing in pain, but at the time she thought it was a stomach bug. "In July, she went for a scan at hospital, and things were so bad that three days later she was on an operating table having the cancer removed from her ovaries." isa died 15 months after she was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, leaving behind Lucy and her 43-year-old husband, also a doctor. Mr Clark, a father of three, said: "When Lisa was upset and dying in the hospice she had regrets about some of the travelling she hadn't completed and I vowed I would do some of that for her. "After her passing I thought long and hard and decided I was well and fit so should do my greatest trip before I was unable to travel. "I wondered what would be the ultimate thing for me to photograph to honour her memory, and I thought about penguins. "My wife and I travelled to South Georgia and the Falklands to photograph king penguins. At the time I thought this was my ultimate trip. "Lisa left us exactly £20,000 in her will, which she wanted us to spend on a holiday, and this was exactly how much the trip in November 2013 cost my wife and I, so it seemed perfect. "In addition, we had discovered a photo of a penguin on a postcard sent to us by our daughter before we left for South Georgia. "On our return we looked again at the penguin postcard and now with our new knowledge of penguins realised we had spent so much time with king penguins and not emperor penguins. "It became a personal commitment for me to return to the South and photograph the emperors to honour Lisa's legacy and get the same penguin that was on the postcard." he grandfather-of-five then spent the next year planning an expedition to Gould Bay, Weddell Sea, Antarctica, which cost him £40,000. He said: "I'd spent a year thinking about this, and I was determined to do it no matter what the risks were, but I was worried I'd never make it due to my health. "I was even warned by a doctor not to go on the trip due to the health risks at my age, but I never, ever deviated from my plan to do this. "I'd also undergone surgery for kidney stones before I got the travel insurance, and then the insurance wouldn't cover me for this. "My insurance alone still cost more than £3,000 – and I was aware of all the risks, but nothing would stop me. This expedition was the only way I could achieve my ambition. It was a year in planning and procuring expensive equipment for comfort and survival." Mr Clark managed to get a place on an expedition in Antarctica in November. He flew to Punta Arenas, Chile, and then on an IIyushin 76 aircraft to a Glacier Base Camp. From there it was a four-hour flight to Gould Bay. r Clark said: "When I first saw the penguins I was overwhelmed with emotion. These penguins are the tallest, and the most beautiful, with the cutest chicks. "I wanted to share this incredible moment with my wife, so I rang her using a satellite phone and woke her at 3am. She loved it, and was happy to share the moment. Then I started thinking about why I was here. "Initially I wanted to leave something as a legacy to Lisa in Antarctica, but everything has to be kept pristine so instead I just wrote her name there in the snow. "I suddenly thought of a quote by poet Walt Whitman: 'Not I, nor anyone else can travel that road for you. You must travel it by yourself'. "Walt Whitman has particular meaning because Lisa and her mother once performed as extras in a film about him, and we used one of his quotes on Lisa's gravestone. "It was then I realised that I was there to do the travel for Lisa. It was my goal to do as many things as I could for her given her life was cut short." He added: "At Lisa's funeral people donated £5,000, which went to the ovarian cancer charity Ovacome for a project in which survivors teach doctors about the symptoms of the disease. "That sum grew to £25,000 after further fundraising by friends and family. Seeing those penguins was another way for me to honour Lisa's legacy and her dying wish to have travelled more. "As we watched the penguin colony, I had an emotional moment with another photographer who had recently lost her mother to ovarian cancer. I told her Lisa's story and then we had a group hug – I bet the penguins didn't know what was was going on!" he photographs taken by Mr Clark on his trip show penguin chicks nuzzling up to their parents for warmth. In some of the images – Mr Clark took a total of 3,000 during the trip – baby penguins playfully squabble with each other, nudging or gently nipping each other with their beaks. Parent penguins take turns looking after their chicks while the other parent walks up to ten-miles to open water for food. Mr Clark added: "When I finally got there I was just overwhelmed that I'd made it. In the following days I settled down and got on with the job of photographing the animals' beauty and behaviour, their cuteness, and the frozen landscape. "In doing this, I feel I have paid tribute to Lisa's memory, and I wanted to tell her story to honour her last request not to be forgotten."

A father whose doctor daughter died of cancer travelled 8,000 miles to photograph penguins in her memory, before having to make another international trip when he realised he had snapped the wrong ones.

Roger Clark, 71, wanted to picture the same bird that was on a postcard sent to him by his daughter, Lisa, when she had gone on holiday to Australia.

But when he returned from South Georgia and the Falklands, he compared his photos with the postcard - and realised the bird on the card was an emperor penguin not a king penguin as he had originally thought.

Mr Clark, of Chandlers Ford, Hampshire, ignored medical advice then to make a 10,000-mile journey to Antarctica.

When he finally found and photographed the penguins caring for their chicks, Mr Clark said he was "overwhelmed with emotion" and rang his wife on a satellite phone to share the moment before writing his daughter's name in the snow.