Conference title games College Football Playoff implications
GameDay Kickoff: How conference title games will affect the playoff
GameDay Kickoff: How conference title games will affect the playoff Oregon hires USF's Taggart to be next coach 49ers' Kelly: Would never leave a job in season Stanford RB McCaffrey entering 2017 NFL draft Emmert: Penn State's response led to success LSU's Aranda to be one of top-paid assistants Alabama losing third backup QB to transfer Alabama's 'Predator,' Tim Williams, is a lineman's nightmare Vols land Trey Smith, ESPN's No. 1 prospect FPI breaks down bowl season The dream bowl games we'd really like to see 1 Related FPI breaks down bowl season What if there were an eight-team College Football Playoff? Here's to Mike MacIntyre, Lamar Jackson and 2016's best in show L'ville's Jackson leads group of Heisman finalists Bearkats' Keeler wins Eddie Robinson Award Spreads for every CFB bowl game Sequel? Urban Meyer has another young team but knows way around CFP Nabbing No. 1 recruit Trey Smith much-needed good news for Vols, Butch Jones Healthy for this CFP, J.T. Barrett's big moment has arrived Lacking Texas ties, Matt Rhule faces added challenge, depleted roster at Baylor '94 Heisman winner Salaam dead at age 42 Rhule leaves Temple to become Baylor coach President-elect Trump going to Army-Navy game Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman? Playoff? That's not what this committee had in mind Bama courts history amid unusual playoff landscape Get used to it, people: There's no surefire CFP path Source: QB Morris transferring from Michigan The tragic tale behind a Heisman underdog This bowl season, the biggest game is also the most entertaining Franklin: Penn State 'excited' for bowl despite CFP snub Meet the overlooked leader of Alabama's dominant defense How Alabama thrived in the face of massive expectations 41 bowl games, 42 predictions 1 Related 2016-17 College Football Playoff and bowl schedule Purdue hits the jackpot by hiring Jeff Brohm as head coach Think the playoff field is mostly locked in?  Think again.  Heather Dinich explains why conference championships matter, and how they've impacted the College Football Playoff the last two seasons. (1:16) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment College football reporter Joined ESPN.com in 2007 Graduate of Indiana University Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Debates about whether No. 2 Ohio State will finish in the College Football Playoff selection committee's top four have dominated the conversation, but the 11-1 Buckeyes, who didn't win their division, are out of chances to impress the committee. There are 10 Power 5 teams who will play for a conference title with the 12 committee members watching together -- the first and only time they watch live games together all season. Wisconsin athletic director Barry Alvarez is not going to the Big Ten title game because of his responsibilities as a committee member, and the same goes for Clemson athletic director Dan Radakovich, who will not attend the ACC title game in Orlando, Florida. Instead, they will be watching from their leather swivel chairs in "Selection Central" at the posh Gaylord Texan Resort in Grapevine, Texas. Here's a look at the impact the conference championships will have, ranked in order of biggest impact on the final rankings Dec. 4: If Clemson loses, the ACC is likely out, which would further open the door for a second Big Ten team. The committee isn't going to put in a three-loss Virginia Tech team, even with a league title, and Clemson will have two damaging losses (to No. 25 Pitt and the Hokies) and no conference title. This upset would have the biggest impact on the playoff because there are so many other talented teams out there -- such as Ohio State, Colorado, Michigan, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State -- with better losses that could benefit from the Tigers tumbling. If the Hokies win, they would go to the Orange Bowl as the ACC champion. If Wisconsin wins, it would be much easier for the selection committee to put in Ohio State over the Big Ten champs because the Buckeyes beat Wisconsin in Madison during the regular season. If Penn State wins, though, the committee has a real headache. The committee will have to decide whether it wants to put in both teams, or just one -- and it doesn't necessarily have to be Penn State. There's no requirement for the committee to put in four conference champions, but it also has to consider that the Nittany Lions have the 24-21 head-to-head win on Oct. 22. So far, that hasn't been enough to sway the committee. "Again, the selection committee recognizes the head-to-head win," said committee chair Kirby Hocutt, "but in this particular case, it hasn't been the distinguishing point in our evaluation of those two teams." And don't forget, Michigan beat both Penn State and Wisconsin. If Washington loses, Colorado will be compared with two-loss champs from both the Big 12 and the Big Ten -- not to mention two-loss Michigan -- opening the door for one-loss Ohio State Michigan to possibly finish in the top four. If Washington wins, there's still no guarantee the Pac-12 champion is in. "It's been a concern for the committee, and I would say that it continues to be a concern for the selection committee with Washington's strength of schedule," Hocutt said. "... It is a very small margin of separation in the committee's eyes between No. 4 Washington and No. 5 Michigan. Don't think I can emphasize enough the small margin of separation that the selection committee sees between those two teams." Cowboys coach Mike Gundy has lamented the committee's approach to his controversial loss to Central Michigan, but considering Colorado has jumped both of the Big 12's best teams, it appears to be a moot point. The Big 12 looks like a long shot in what is a crowded group of contenders. While the committee is aware of the officiating gaffe that transpired during the game, Oklahoma State has to win Bedlam and hope there is chaos above it in order to have a shot. The Sooners seem to have a slightly better shot, only because the committee has consistently ranked them ahead of Oklahoma State, but OU will also need some chaos -- likely both Washington and Clemson losing. Because one-loss Ohio State is still in the conversation, though, any two-loss league champ needs to have a compelling résumé to go along with its title. This is the least compelling of the Power 5 title games because even if undefeated Alabama loses, it would still likely be in the top four. The caveat is, with a loss, it might not be No. 1. That's important for seeding reasons, as the committee won't put the No. 1 seed at a geographic disadvantage in a semifinal. As long as the Tide stay No. 1, they should go to the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl in Atlanta. No. 17 Western Michigan shouldn't get too comfortable. The undefeated Broncos have a slight edge over No. 19 Navy, which made a significant jump from No. 25 last week after clobbering SMU 75-31. WMU's strength of schedule remains an issue, though, leaving the door open for the Midshipmen. "Look at a Western Michigan team that is very successful on the offensive side of the ball," Hocutt said. "At the same time, they've only beaten two FBS teams with a winning record. Navy has three, what the selection committee would look at quality wins over Houston, Memphis and Tulsa." Both teams have a chance to win their respective conference titles this week, and the committee will all be together on Friday to watch WMU in the MAC championship game against Ohio (7 p.m. ET, ESPN/ESPN App). Navy will square off against Temple in the AAC title game on Saturday (noon ET, ABC/ESPN App). Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Think the playoff field is mostly locked in? Think again. Heather Dinich explains why conference championships matter, and how they've impacted the College Football Playoff the last two seasons. (1:16)

Debates about whether No. 2 Ohio State will finish in the College Football Playoff selection committee's top four have dominated the conversation, but the 11-1 Buckeyes, who didn't win their division, are out of chances to impress the committee.

There are 10 Power 5 teams who will play for a conference title with the 12 committee members watching together -- the first and only time they watch live games together all season. Wisconsin athletic director Barry Alvarez is not going to the Big Ten title game because of his responsibilities as a committee member, and the same goes for Clemson athletic director Dan Radakovich, who will not attend the ACC title game in Orlando, Florida.

Instead, they will be watching from their leather swivel chairs in "Selection Central" at the posh Gaylord Texan Resort in Grapevine, Texas. Here's a look at the impact the conference championships will have, ranked in order of biggest impact on the final rankings Dec. 4:

1. No. 3 Clemson vs. No. 23 Virginia Tech (8 p.m. ET, ABC/ESPN App)

If Clemson loses, the ACC is likely out, which would further open the door for a second Big Ten team. The committee isn't going to put in a three-loss Virginia Tech team, even with a league title, and Clemson will have two damaging losses (to No. 25 Pitt and the Hokies) and no conference title. This upset would have the biggest impact on the playoff because there are so many other talented teams out there -- such as Ohio State, Colorado, Michigan, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State -- with better losses that could benefit from the Tigers tumbling. If the Hokies win, they would go to the Orange Bowl as the ACC champion.

2. No. 6 Wisconsin vs. No. 7 Penn State (8 p.m. ET, Fox)

Editor's Picks Everything you need to know about conference championship games Conference championship games begin on Friday with the Pac-12 and the MAC and continue through Saturday with the ACC, Big Ten, SEC (and we're counting Bedlam for the Big 12).

Championship weekend schedule Your guide to championship weekend and the College Football Playoff and bowl announcements.

Congrats, Washington: Now don't get too comfortable No. 4 Washington has reason to celebrate this week, but with three Big Ten teams hot on its trail, the Huskies will likely have to sweat out the final rankings on Sunday. 2 Related

If Wisconsin wins, it would be much easier for the selection committee to put in Ohio State over the Big Ten champs because the Buckeyes beat Wisconsin in Madison during the regular season. If Penn State wins, though, the committee has a real headache. The committee will have to decide whether it wants to put in both teams, or just one -- and it doesn't necessarily have to be Penn State. There's no requirement for the committee to put in four conference champions, but it also has to consider that the Nittany Lions have the 24-21 head-to-head win on Oct. 22. So far, that hasn't been enough to sway the committee. "Again, the selection committee recognizes the head-to-head win," said committee chair Kirby Hocutt, "but in this particular case, it hasn't been the distinguishing point in our evaluation of those two teams." And don't forget, Michigan beat both Penn State and Wisconsin.

3. No. 4 Washington vs. No. 8 Colorado (Friday, 9 p.m. ET, Fox)

If Washington loses, Colorado will be compared with two-loss champs from both the Big 12 and the Big Ten -- not to mention two-loss Michigan -- opening the door for one-loss Ohio State and Michigan to possibly finish in the top four. If Washington wins, there's still no guarantee the Pac-12 champion is in. "It's been a concern for the committee, and I would say that it continues to be a concern for the selection committee with Washington's strength of schedule," Hocutt said. "... It is a very small margin of separation in the committee's eyes between No. 4 Washington and No. 5 Michigan. Don't think I can emphasize enough the small margin of separation that the selection committee sees between those two teams."

4. No. 10 Oklahoma State @ No. 9 Oklahoma (12:30 p.m. ET, Fox)

Cowboys coach Mike Gundy has lamented the committee's approach to his controversial loss to Central Michigan, but considering Colorado has jumped both of the Big 12's best teams, it appears to be a moot point. The Big 12 looks like a long shot in what is a crowded group of contenders. While the committee is aware of the officiating gaffe that transpired during the game, Oklahoma State has to win Bedlam and hope there is chaos above it in order to have a shot. The Sooners seem to have a slightly better shot, only because the committee has consistently ranked them ahead of Oklahoma State, but OU will also need some chaos -- likely both Washington and Clemson losing. Because one-loss Ohio State is still in the conversation, though, any two-loss league champ needs to have a compelling résumé to go along with its title.

5. No. 1 Alabama vs. No. 15 Florida (4 p.m. ET, CBS)

This is the least compelling of the Power 5 title games because even if undefeated Alabama loses, it would still likely be in the top four. The caveat is, with a loss, it might not be No. 1. That's important for seeding reasons, as the committee won't put the No. 1 seed at a geographic disadvantage in a semifinal. As long as the Tide stay No. 1, they should go to the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl in Atlanta.

Group of Five Watch

No. 17 Western Michigan shouldn't get too comfortable. The undefeated Broncos have a slight edge over No. 19 Navy, which made a significant jump from No. 25 last week after clobbering SMU 75-31. WMU's strength of schedule remains an issue, though, leaving the door open for the Midshipmen. "Look at a Western Michigan team that is very successful on the offensive side of the ball," Hocutt said. "At the same time, they've only beaten two FBS teams with a winning record. Navy has three, what the selection committee would look at quality wins over Houston, Memphis and Tulsa." Both teams have a chance to win their respective conference titles this week, and the committee will all be together on Friday to watch WMU in the MAC championship game against Ohio (7 p.m. ET, ESPN/ESPN App). Navy will square off against Temple in the AAC title game on Saturday (noon ET, ABC/ESPN App).