Kanye West released from hospital, source says
Kanye West released from hospital, source says
Vanguard Award winner Kanye West speaks onstage during the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards at Microsoft Theater, August 30, 2015 in Los Angeles.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  -- Kanye West has been released from the hospital after spending nine days at UCLA Medical Center. Earlier this week, a source close to the 39-year-old rapper and his wife, Kim Kardashian West, told ET that doctors were “reluctant to diagnose anything,” though Kanye was said to be “doing much better” after being hospitalized on N ov. 21 . Through it all, the source said, Kim had stayed by his side “24/7” as he recovered. “Kim is more dedicated and devoted to Kanye more than ever,” a source said. “She knows that there are limitations for how much a person can do or take on. She knows that he just needs a break, and she will make sure he gets that. This is only making their marriage stronger.” Kanye West’s troubled year: A timeline Rapper Kanye West hospitalized after canceling tour Kanye West is being hospitalized, reportedly for exhaustion, after going on a bizarre rant at a concert and canceling the remainder of his tour. ... A source previously confirmed to ET that Kanye was at personal trainer Harley Pasternak’s home at the time he was hospitalized, where he was “strongly convinced to go to the hospital for his own well-being and safety.” Despite reports that Kanye allegedly attempted to assault a staff member at Pasternak’s gym before his hospitalization, another source close to Kanye told ET, “[There was] no assault, no fight.” Kanye suffered from what one source attributed to “sleep deprivation and exhaustion,” and another source called “a mental breakdown.” “It was a combination of a lot of issues: stress, anxiety, paranoia. He just broke,” the source told ET. “There have been signs recently of him just overwhelmed. Kanye hasn’t been himself for a while.” In addition to a strenuous work schedule, a source also told ET that Kanye had been deeply “unsettled” by his wife’s terrifying armed robbery in Paris . News of the rapper’s release from UCLA was first reported by X17. Celebrities react to reports of Kanye West’s hospitalization Kanye West and wife Kim Kardashian Prior to the hospitalization, Kanye had been making headlines for erratic behavior at his latest shows, including going on a lengthy rant in which he took shots at longtime friends Beyonce and Jay Z . The “Fade” rapper abruptly canceled the 21 remaining dates on his Saint Pablo tour prior to his hospitalization. WATCH: Kanye West ‘Misses His Kids’ Amid Hospitalization ET spoke to Kanye’s close pal, John Legend , last week while he was promoting his new album, , and Legend noted that the GRAMMY-winning rapper has “been through a lot lately.” “All I can see is what [Kanye] said to the public -- and that is he’s tired and needs some rest,” Legend said before news broke that Kanye had been hospitalized. “I think he’s been through a lot lately with what happened to Kim. I think if he needs to rest, I think his fans will be patient and let him rest. He’ll come back stronger, hopefully.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email

LOS ANGELES -- Kanye West has been released from the hospital after spending nine days at UCLA Medical Center.

Earlier this week, a source close to the 39-year-old rapper and his wife, Kim Kardashian West, told ET that doctors were “reluctant to diagnose anything,” though Kanye was said to be “doing much better” after being hospitalized on Nov. 21. Through it all, the source said, Kim had stayed by his side “24/7” as he recovered.

“Kim is more dedicated and devoted to Kanye more than ever,” a source said. “She knows that there are limitations for how much a person can do or take on. She knows that he just needs a break, and she will make sure he gets that. This is only making their marriage stronger.”

A source previously confirmed to ET that Kanye was at personal trainer Harley Pasternak’s home at the time he was hospitalized, where he was “strongly convinced to go to the hospital for his own well-being and safety.” Despite reports that Kanye allegedly attempted to assault a staff member at Pasternak’s gym before his hospitalization, another source close to Kanye told ET, “[There was] no assault, no fight.”

Kanye suffered from what one source attributed to “sleep deprivation and exhaustion,” and another source called “a mental breakdown.” “It was a combination of a lot of issues: stress, anxiety, paranoia. He just broke,” the source told ET. “There have been signs recently of him just overwhelmed. Kanye hasn’t been himself for a while.” In addition to a strenuous work schedule, a source also told ET that Kanye had been deeply “unsettled” by his wife’s terrifying armed robbery in Paris. News of the rapper’s release from UCLA was first reported by X17.

GOOD Music

Prior to the hospitalization, Kanye had been making headlines for erratic behavior at his latest shows, including going on a lengthy rant in which he took shots at longtime friends Beyonce and Jay Z. The “Fade” rapper abruptly canceled the 21 remaining dates on his Saint Pablo tour prior to his hospitalization.

ET spoke to Kanye’s close pal, John Legend, last week while he was promoting his new album, Darkness and Light, and Legend noted that the GRAMMY-winning rapper has “been through a lot lately.”

“All I can see is what [Kanye] said to the public -- and that is he’s tired and needs some rest,” Legend said before news broke that Kanye had been hospitalized. “I think he’s been through a lot lately with what happened to Kim. I think if he needs to rest, I think his fans will be patient and let him rest. He’ll come back stronger, hopefully.”