How The Great Recession Left A Lasting Legacy On Millennial Families
How The Great Recession Left A Lasting Legacy On Millennial Families
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Christine Carter       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. This month marks the nine year anniversary of The Great Recession , the sharp decline in economic activity in America from December 2007 to June 2009. Although many of today’s millennials deliberately postpone marriage and having children, nine years ago very few were married and had not yet become parents. (Back then the majority of millennials were also just starting their career , and on a personal note I opted to start both a marriage and open my own retail marketing firm, Epps Consulting .) For those who did choose to marry their spouse and begin having children within this nine year period, The Great Recession is still impacting their families tremendously. From aspects as long-term as educational funding strategies for their children (generation Alpha) to current household dynamics with older generations, millennial parents still grapple with the aftermath of The Great Recession. Photo by Getty Images According to the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, the cost of center-based daycare in the United States can run up to $18,773 a year ($361 a week). Without question, childcare is often the second largest monthly expense for families after their mortgage or rent payment. As an alternative to this expense, most millennial parents either share a nanny with friends or coworkers, get financial support for childcare from their parents or leverage grandparents already living in their home as daycare providers. A full-time nanny employed by a single family typically earns $400 - $700 per week, but in a nanny-share arrangement the nanny usually earns 10 – 20% more than her counterparts. When three or more families evenly divide nanny sharing costs, private daycare becomes more affordable for millennial parents. Grandparents also help relieve millennial parents of this stressful expense. According to Grandparents.com, 62% of baby boomer and generation X grandparents have provided financial support to their adult children in the last 12 months, and 23% have specifically contributed to daycare. Additionally, in 2014, while the share of 18- to 24-year-olds living with their parents dropped, the share of 25- to 34-year-olds living at home rose. As a result, some baby boomers and members of generation X living with their millennial children also serve as daycare teachers and after school care for their grandchildren, generation Alpha. 72% of them take care of their grandchildren on a regular basis.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

This month marks the nine year anniversary of The Great Recession, the sharp decline in economic activity in America from December 2007 to June 2009. Although many of today’s millennials deliberately postpone marriage and having children, nine years ago very few were married and had not yet become parents. (Back then the majority of millennials were also just starting their career, and on a personal note I opted to start both a marriage and open my own retail marketing firm, Epps Consulting.)

For those who did choose to marry their spouse and begin having children within this nine year period, The Great Recession is still impacting their families tremendously. From aspects as long-term as educational funding strategies for their children (generation Alpha) to current household dynamics with older generations, millennial parents still grapple with the aftermath of The Great Recession.

Post-Recession Childcare

According to the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, the cost of center-based daycare in the United States can run up to $18,773 a year ($361 a week). Without question, childcare is often the second largest monthly expense for families after their mortgage or rent payment. As an alternative to this expense, most millennial parents either share a nanny with friends or coworkers, get financial support for childcare from their parents or leverage grandparents already living in their home as daycare providers.

A full-time nanny employed by a single family typically earns $400 - $700 per week, but in a nanny-share arrangement the nanny usually earns 10 – 20% more than her counterparts. When three or more families evenly divide nanny sharing costs, private daycare becomes more affordable for millennial parents.

Grandparents also help relieve millennial parents of this stressful expense. According to Grandparents.com, 62% of baby boomer and generation X grandparents have provided financial support to their adult children in the last 12 months, and 23% have specifically contributed to daycare. Additionally, in 2014, while the share of 18- to 24-year-olds living with their parents dropped, the share of 25- to 34-year-olds living at home rose. As a result, some baby boomers and members of generation X living with their millennial children also serve as daycare teachers and after school care for their grandchildren, generation Alpha. 72% of them take care of their grandchildren on a regular basis.