Metro board committee advances plan for late-night service cuts

After a contentious debate, a Metro board committee voted Thursday to advance a proposal that would shorten service hours for two years  — a decision Metro board chairman Jack Evans said would almost certainly get a jurisdictional veto from the District. The proposal will go to the full Metro board for a final vote in two weeks. The vote followed two hours of debate, in which board members battled over the proposal’s potential impact on low-income and minority riders. Others argued that resistance to the changes, which Metro says it needs to give workers more time for much needed track work and maintenance, would undercut Metro General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld and system safety. The plan would shutter the system at 11:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 1 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and 11 p.m. on Sundays. The system would open at 8 a.m. on Sundays — one hour later than it does now.  The changes would give workers an additional eight hours each week to perform track repairs and preventive maintenance. Though the proposal has been under discussion since July, board members Thursday bandied about a range of amendments that delved into the details of how to implement the plan: Should they approve eight hours of service cuts, or limit it to four? If they approve the service cuts, should they place a sunset clause on the schedule changes — meaning it would automatically revert to extended late-night hours at some point in the future? And if there is a sunset clause, should it be one year or two? Evans advocated for an automatic one-year sunset, saying the D.C. Council and Mayor Muriel E. Bowser had made it clear that they have no intention of supporting any late-night service cuts that extend past summer 2018. After the vote, he said he would go back to them to see if they would agree to support the two-year sunset, though he bristled at suggestions that the District was being intransigent by refusing to support the two-year plan. “The District did compromise. The District didn’t want to do any of this,” said Evans , who also is a D.C. Council member. He said Bowser and the Council had made it clear that they expected him to veto any cuts that lasted longer than a year. “It’s not a threat.” “Of course it’s a threat,” said board member Michael Goldman, chairman of the panel’s finance committee. “We believe we have compromised enormously,” Evans continued. “The board can do what it wants to do. I’ve made my decision clear, on behalf of the District of Columbia.” Board members also raised concerns about whether the cuts would pass legal muster. An equity analysis showed that the schedule changes would have a disproportionately adverse impact on low-income and minority riders. But Metro officials said they had received general guidance from the Federal Transit Administration that the proposal would comply with Title VI of the U.S. Civil Rights Act because the largest number of respondents– across all demographics —  to a Metro survey on its proposals said that they preferred this plan to the other alternatives offered. “I think we’re really on thin ice. I want to know how bulletproof we’re going to be when we get sued,” said board member Tom Bulger, who also represents the District. Board member Malcolm Augustine, who represents Prince George’s County, said he was “very uncomfortable” with the data showing the impact the cuts would have on low-income and minority riders. “It is very clear from this that portions of the [proposed schedule change] do not meet the standard — not even close,” Augustine said. “We would be creating some jeopardy for ourselves if we move forward with these hours in the way that they are presented.” Augustine offered an amendment which would have provided four extra hours of track access per week, rather than eight hours, but it was voted down. As several board members made eleventh-hour entreaties to reconsider the plan or place a one-year sunset on the schedule changes, others worried that those requests were undercutting Wiedefeld and what he’s attempting to do at the agency. “We’ve heard from management that they need more time because of decisions in the past where maintenance was deferred,” said board member Robert Lauby, who also is chief safety officer at the Federal Railroad Administration. “The longer we put it off, the bigger the problem gets. I think we need to bite the bullet here and make a decision.” Goldman said it was “ironic” that the debate on late-night service was occurring on Wiedefeld’s one-year anniversary with the agency. Goldman wondered aloud: Wasn’t Wiedefeld hired to make exactly these kinds of tough decisions? And shouldn’t we support those decisions? “I’m not going to undercut him and I’m not going to second-guess him,” Goldman said. Board member Christian Dorsey, who represents Virginia, told Augustine during the meeting that he was similarly concerned about how the cuts would affect Metro’s most vulnerable riders, and agreed that there could have been better public outreach from the beginning of the process. But at the end of the day, Dorsey said, he didn’t see a way to avoid the changes. Metro needs the track time, he said. “I’ve gotten to the point that I’m comfortable that the [track] time is needed,” Dorsey said. After the meeting, Dorsey urged D.C. board members against a jurisdictional veto. “I think that would be a huge mistake on their part,” Dorsey said. “If the District would exercise a jurisdictional veto, given the nature of this being reasonable, that would be contrary to the spirit of what the compact is intended to do and for me it would also be disastrous for the agency. “I understand the political reality,” Dorsey said. “The District doesn’t just want to appear as if they’re just rolling over as hours are reduced. But it would set a dangerous precedent for the troubled Metro. We don’t want SafeTrack surges to be the normal for Metro. We don’t want to be in such a state of disrepair that we even jeopardize closing at 1 a.m.” Goldman also was wary of the veto threat. He said the District’s aversion to the two -year timetable could delay the full board vote, sending it back to committee or deferring the matter until February or March. “It’s looming over this proposal and it’s looming over the budget for [fiscal year 2018],” he said. “I think we ‘oughta find some way to to get the vetoes off the table and enter into some kind of negotiation so we can actually find a way forward on both of these issues.” He applauded the addition of a two-year sunset to advance to the proposal from the committee level. Still, he said: “I don’t know if it goes anywhere in two weeks. “Maybe we need to have a little more time for some conversations both among committee members and among board members generally,” he said.

Metro’s proposed span of service, which would take effect in July 2017.

After a contentious debate, a Metro board committee voted Thursday to advance a proposal that would shorten service hours for two years — a decision Metro board chairman Jack Evans said would almost certainly get a jurisdictional veto from the District.

The proposal will go to the full Metro board for a final vote in two weeks.

The vote followed two hours of debate, in which board members battled over the proposal’s potential impact on low-income and minority riders. Others argued that resistance to the changes, which Metro says it needs to give workers more time for much needed track work and maintenance, would undercut Metro General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld and system safety.

The plan would shutter the system at 11:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 1 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and 11 p.m. on Sundays. The system would open at 8 a.m. on Sundays — one hour later than it does now. The changes would give workers an additional eight hours each week to perform track repairs and preventive maintenance.

Though the proposal has been under discussion since July, board members Thursday bandied about a range of amendments that delved into the details of how to implement the plan: Should they approve eight hours of service cuts, or limit it to four? If they approve the service cuts, should they place a sunset clause on the schedule changes — meaning it would automatically revert to extended late-night hours at some point in the future? And if there is a sunset clause, should it be one year or two?

Evans advocated for an automatic one-year sunset, saying the D.C. Council and Mayor Muriel E. Bowser had made it clear that they have no intention of supporting any late-night service cuts that extend past summer 2018. After the vote, he said he would go back to them to see if they would agree to support the two-year sunset, though he bristled at suggestions that the District was being intransigent by refusing to support the two-year plan.

“The District did compromise. The District didn’t want to do any of this,” said Evans , who also is a D.C. Council member. He said Bowser and the Council had made it clear that they expected him to veto any cuts that lasted longer than a year. “It’s not a threat.”

“Of course it’s a threat,” said board member Michael Goldman, chairman of the panel’s finance committee.

“We believe we have compromised enormously,” Evans continued. “The board can do what it wants to do. I’ve made my decision clear, on behalf of the District of Columbia.”

Board members also raised concerns about whether the cuts would pass legal muster. An equity analysis showed that the schedule changes would have a disproportionately adverse impact on low-income and minority riders. But Metro officials said they had received general guidance from the Federal Transit Administration that the proposal would comply with Title VI of the U.S. Civil Rights Act because the largest number of respondents– across all demographics — to a Metro survey on its proposals said that they preferred this plan to the other alternatives offered.

“I think we’re really on thin ice. I want to know how bulletproof we’re going to be when we get sued,” said board member Tom Bulger, who also represents the District.

Board member Malcolm Augustine, who represents Prince George’s County, said he was “very uncomfortable” with the data showing the impact the cuts would have on low-income and minority riders.

“It is very clear from this that portions of the [proposed schedule change] do not meet the standard — not even close,” Augustine said. “We would be creating some jeopardy for ourselves if we move forward with these hours in the way that they are presented.”

Augustine offered an amendment which would have provided four extra hours of track access per week, rather than eight hours, but it was voted down.

As several board members made eleventh-hour entreaties to reconsider the plan or place a one-year sunset on the schedule changes, others worried that those requests were undercutting Wiedefeld and what he’s attempting to do at the agency.

“We’ve heard from management that they need more time because of decisions in the past where maintenance was deferred,” said board member Robert Lauby, who also is chief safety officer at the Federal Railroad Administration. “The longer we put it off, the bigger the problem gets. I think we need to bite the bullet here and make a decision.”

Goldman said it was “ironic” that the debate on late-night service was occurring on Wiedefeld’s one-year anniversary with the agency. Goldman wondered aloud: Wasn’t Wiedefeld hired to make exactly these kinds of tough decisions? And shouldn’t we support those decisions?

“I’m not going to undercut him and I’m not going to second-guess him,” Goldman said.

Board member Christian Dorsey, who represents Virginia, told Augustine during the meeting that he was similarly concerned about how the cuts would affect Metro’s most vulnerable riders, and agreed that there could have been better public outreach from the beginning of the process.

But at the end of the day, Dorsey said, he didn’t see a way to avoid the changes. Metro needs the track time, he said.

“I’ve gotten to the point that I’m comfortable that the [track] time is needed,” Dorsey said.

After the meeting, Dorsey urged D.C. board members against a jurisdictional veto.

“I think that would be a huge mistake on their part,” Dorsey said. “If the District would exercise a jurisdictional veto, given the nature of this being reasonable, that would be contrary to the spirit of what the compact is intended to do and for me it would also be disastrous for the agency.

“I understand the political reality,” Dorsey said. “The District doesn’t just want to appear as if they’re just rolling over as hours are reduced. But it would set a dangerous precedent for the troubled Metro. We don’t want SafeTrack surges to be the normal for Metro. We don’t want to be in such a state of disrepair that we even jeopardize closing at 1 a.m.”

Goldman also was wary of the veto threat. He said the District’s aversion to the two -year timetable could delay the full board vote, sending it back to committee or deferring the matter until February or March.

“It’s looming over this proposal and it’s looming over the budget for [fiscal year 2018],” he said. “I think we ‘oughta find some way to to get the vetoes off the table and enter into some kind of negotiation so we can actually find a way forward on both of these issues.”

He applauded the addition of a two-year sunset to advance to the proposal from the committee level. Still, he said: “I don’t know if it goes anywhere in two weeks.

“Maybe we need to have a little more time for some conversations both among committee members and among board members generally,” he said.