Michael Phelps Teaches 7-Month-Old Son Boomer To Swim Underwater
Michael Phelps Teaches 7-Month-Old Son Boomer To Swim Underwater
When your dad is swimming’s GOAT, you have to trust him in the pool. Boomer Phelps, the nearly 7-month-old son of Olympian Michael Phelps , did a fine job of that in a swim lesson with Pop and his childhood teacher, Cathy Bennett. In a Facebook Live video from Baltimore on Monday, little Boomer spent some of the time tugging at his dad’s beard and looking adorable. But he got down to business when Bennett gently placed him underwater and handed him off to Phelps. “The process is starting where he gets to become more water-safe and relaxed, comfortable in the water,” Phelps said. Watch the whole video or check out Boomer’s winning moment beginning at the 7:00 mark (on the right) below. Phelps clearly enjoys being a dad. We might as well give the tyke an Olympic gold medal right now. ALSO ON HUFFPOST: Swimming Questions, Answered       Share this slide:       MORE:

What's Swimmer's Ear Anyway?

This condition can refer to inflammation or infection of either the outer ear or the outer ear canal -- most often, it is simply an infection caused by swimming in contaminated water. Many bacteria, such as pseudomonas, can lead to an ear infection and are prevalent in water, according to the National Institutes of Health website. But swimmer's ear can also be caused by irritation to the layer of skin lining your ear canal -- most often caused by putting fingers, cotton swabs or something else too far into the ear canal. Ear pain, discharge from the ear (particularly if it is a strange color, thick like pus or foul smelling) or an itching sensation in the ear canal are all symptoms of swimmer's ear. Some people may even experience temporary hearing loss. As with any bacterial infection, oral antibiotics are the most common form of treatment. If the swimmer's ear is an inflammation or irritation rather than an infection, corticosteroids are the most common treatment, according to the NIH. Aside from steering clear of polluted water, you can avoid swimmer's ear by using earplugs, thoroughly drying your ears after a swim or even applying an alcohol-vinegar solution to the ears after a swim to prevent bacterial growth.