Burglar has 70-year sentence increased after swearing at judge
Burglar has 70-year sentence increased after swearing at judge
onvicted thief Steven Burns, 25, was sentenced to 70 years in prison this week after being found guilty of charges including burglary with a deadly weapon, criminal confinement and robbery resulting in bodily injury. Burns, of Lafayette, Indiana, also had another 180 days added to his sentence after calling presiding Judge Steven Meyer a "cowardly b***h" during the sentencing hearing at the Tippecanoe County courthouse on Tuesday. Earlier this month Burns was found guilty of robbing and beating an elderly couple during a break-in during the early hours of August 19 this year. According to court documents Burns and two accomplices donned masks before entering the victims' home via a window shortly before 2am. They were armed with handguns and demanded cash. he court heard that the male victim, aged 76, attempted to disarm one of the intruders, and was then hit over the head with a handgun. The men then made off with cash and jewelry. Burns was one of three men arrested last that day. His brother, 23-year-old Joseph Burns, was scheduled to attend a change of plea hearing later this week. A third man, 27-year-old Adam Smith, will stand trial in the next few weeks. • A British judge made headlines earlier this year after giving an expletive-laden response when a racist thug hurled abuse at her in court. John Hennigan, 50, was involved in a slanging match with Judge Patricia Lynch QC at Chelmsford Crown Court in August. ennigan was being sentenced for breaching an Asbo by using racist language towards a Caribbean woman and her two young children when he said she was a "bit of a c---". Judge Lynch replied: "You are a bit of a c--- yourself." When Hennigan shouted back: "Go f--- yourself", the judge replied: "You too."

Convicted thief Steven Burns, 25, was sentenced to 70 years in prison this week after being found guilty of charges including burglary with a deadly weapon, criminal confinement and robbery resulting in bodily injury.

Burns, of Lafayette, Indiana, also had another 180 days added to his sentence after calling presiding Judge Steven Meyer a "cowardly b***h" during the sentencing hearing at the Tippecanoe County courthouse on Tuesday.

Earlier this month Burns was found guilty of robbing and beating an elderly couple during a break-in during the early hours of August 19 this year.

According to court documents Burns and two accomplices donned masks before entering the victims' home via a window shortly before 2am. They were armed with handguns and demanded cash.