'Full House' Creator Buys Home Used in Show
'Full House' Creator Buys Home Used in Show
Shares               The original home used in "Full House" was sold to ... the show's creator. The home was purchased in August, but at the time, the realtor declined to say who bought it. Well, surprise! In an interview with the Hollywood Reporter , Jeff Franklin, who created the famed 90s sitcom that starred John Stamos and Bob Saget , said he purchased the home in San Francisco to use in filming on the reboot "Fuller House." He plans on renting the home at a later date. It was on the market for more than $4 million.     "The house came on the market and really, I just thought, I have to buy this house," he told the magazine about the home used in filming three decades ago. "I'm so sentimental about the house. It's great to have the house in our 'Full House' family and be able to preserve it for the fans." Franklin said hundreds of fans come each day to take photos outside the home. Over the next few months, the home will be updated and brought to code, and the front door will be red once again, like on the show. Previous owners had changed it. "Full House" aired from 1987 to 1995. "Fuller House" debuted on Netflix earlier this year. Shares                  'Full House' Creator Buys Home Used in Show   Reba McEntire, Kenny Rogers to Perform at Benefit for Tenn. Wildfire Victims   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   'Spider-Man: Homecoming': First Teaser Clip Features New Suit   Lauren Graham on How She Got Together With Boyfriend Peter Krause   Lady Gaga Writes About Her 'Daily' Struggle With PTSD   Tom Ford: Beyonce Is Perfect Even When They Drop Their Kids at School   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Wears Necklace With Their Initials   Johnny Depp Is Forbes' Most Overpaid Actor, Again   Ben Mendelsohn on Playing 'Rogue One' Villain   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants in NYC Reported to Have Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Michigan Recount Now in Doubt; Pennsylvania Sets Hearing   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

The original home used in "Full House" was sold to ... the show's creator.

The home was purchased in August, but at the time, the realtor declined to say who bought it. Well, surprise!

In an interview with the Hollywood Reporter, Jeff Franklin, who created the famed 90s sitcom that starred John Stamos and Bob Saget, said he purchased the home in San Francisco to use in filming on the reboot "Fuller House." He plans on renting the home at a later date.

It was on the market for more than $4 million.

Vanguard Properties

"The house came on the market and really, I just thought, I have to buy this house," he told the magazine about the home used in filming three decades ago. "I'm so sentimental about the house. It's great to have the house in our 'Full House' family and be able to preserve it for the fans."

Franklin said hundreds of fans come each day to take photos outside the home. Over the next few months, the home will be updated and brought to code, and the front door will be red once again, like on the show. Previous owners had changed it.

"Full House" aired from 1987 to 1995. "Fuller House" debuted on Netflix earlier this year.