Sushma Swaraj Seeks Report From Embassy In Dubai To Help Indian Who Walked 1,000 Km For Justice
Sushma Swaraj Seeks Report From Embassy In Dubai To Help Indian Who Walked 1,000 Km For Justice
Sushma Swaraj Seeks Report From Embassy In Dubai To Help Indian Who Walked 1,000 Km For Justice India's population is at a whopping 1.2 billion and it becomes really taxing for the people in power to help every single one of them. However, Swaraj is an exception. Almost always, Swaraj has gone out of her way to help people in need, especially those who are outside India. Also read: Sushma Swaraj Will Take Up Issue Of The Indian Origin Bus Driver Burned Alive In Australia Once again, the External Affairs minister sought a report from the Indian consulate in Dubai about an Indian man who walked more than 1,000 kilometres over two years as he had no money to attend Dubai court proceedings to obtain a flight ticket to return home. I have asked for a report from Indian Embassy in Dubai. Indian Walked 1,000 Km To Dubai Court https://t.co/kbvwVV67QP via @ndtv  @templetree1 Over a span of 2 years, Jagannathan Selvaraj, from Tiruchirappalli, overcame a lot of hurdles as he made it to the labour court proceedings. He survived traffic, heat, sandstorms and exhaustion. For every court hearing, Selvaraj spent 4 hours, 2 hours each way. He has been living in a public park in Sonapur for several months now. Now that Swaraj has her eyes on the case, let's hope for a quicker solution. Also read: Sushma Swaraj Helps Distraught Mom Seeking Visa For Son, Makes Embassy In US Work On A Holiday

India's population is at a whopping 1.2 billion and it becomes really taxing for the people in power to help every single one of them. However, Swaraj is an exception.

Almost always, Swaraj has gone out of her way to help people in need, especially those who are outside India.

Also read: Sushma Swaraj Will Take Up Issue Of The Indian Origin Bus Driver Burned Alive In Australia

Once again, the External Affairs minister sought a report from the Indian consulate in Dubai about an Indian man who walked more than 1,000 kilometres over two years as he had no money to attend Dubai court proceedings to obtain a flight ticket to return home.

I have asked for a report from Indian Embassy in Dubai.

Indian Walked 1,000 Km To Dubai Court https://t.co/kbvwVV67QP via @ndtv @templetree1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) November 30, 2016

Over a span of 2 years, Jagannathan Selvaraj, from Tiruchirappalli, overcame a lot of hurdles as he made it to the labour court proceedings. He survived traffic, heat, sandstorms and exhaustion.

For every court hearing, Selvaraj spent 4 hours, 2 hours each way. He has been living in a public park in Sonapur for several months now.

Now that Swaraj has her eyes on the case, let's hope for a quicker solution.

Also read: Sushma Swaraj Helps Distraught Mom Seeking Visa For Son, Makes Embassy In US Work On A Holiday