'Full House' creator buys 'Full House' house to feel full
'Full House' creator buys 'Full House' house to feel full
Who hasn't made a nostalgic impulsive buy? Jeff Franklin, the writer and producer who created , recently bought the iconic San Francisco estate featured on his show, according to the . "The house came on the market and really, I just thought, I to buy this house," Franklin told on Wednesday. "I'm so sentimental about the house. It's great to have the house in our family and be able to preserve it for the fans…Seriously, I owning this house." SEE ALSO: 'Fuller House' Season 2 trailer is here because Full House will never, ever end Per , the house went on sale in May with a reported price of $4.15 million, which is approximately what Franklin paid to keep it in the family. Now that he's the owner, Franklin floated the possibility of shooting new exterior interior shots of the house, which was initially photographed and recreated as a set. has not yet been renewed for Season 3, but if it is, it's possible that some  new shots of the house will make their way onto the program. "I hope to bring the cast up to the house and have a big slumber party here so people can drive by and actually see the Tanner family living there for one whole day," he said. "That would be pretty fun." Fun — and enough to blur the line between fantasy and reality even further!

Who hasn't made a nostalgic impulsive buy? Jeff Franklin, the writer and producer who created Full House, recently bought the iconic San Francisco estate featured on his show, according to the Hollywood Reporter.

"The house came on the market and really, I just thought, I have to buy this house," Franklin told THR on Wednesday. "I'm so sentimental about the house. It's great to have the house in our Full House family and be able to preserve it for the fans…Seriously, I love owning this house."

Per THR, the house went on sale in May with a reported price of $4.15 million, which is approximately what Franklin paid to keep it in the family.

Now that he's the owner, Franklin floated the possibility of shooting new exterior and interior shots of the house, which was initially photographed and recreated as a set.

Fuller House has not yet been renewed for Season 3, but if it is, it's possible that some new shots of the house will make their way onto the program.

"I hope to bring the cast up to the house and have a big slumber party here so people can drive by and actually see the Tanner family living there for one whole day," he said. "That would be pretty fun."

Fun — and enough to blur the line between fantasy and reality even further!

h/t Hollywood Reporter