Kodak Black Released From Florida Jail, Extradited to South Carolina: Report
Kodak Black Released From Florida Jail, Extradited to South Carolina: Report
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Kodak Black Released From Florida Jail, Extradited to South Carolina: Report  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After serving more than two months in a St. Lucie County, Florida, jail on two misdemeanor drug charges , 19-year-old rapper Kodak Black (born Dieuson Octave) was released on Monday (Nov. 28) afternoon only to be transferred into custody of South Carolina deputies. The reported that the "Skrt" rapper will be extradited to S.C. to face a charge of criminal sexual conduct; the paper said Black appeared at an extradition hearing on Nov. 21, where a judge approved his transfer. "It does say that he has been turned over to South Carolina via the Florence County Sheriff's Office," St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office spokesman Deputy Bryan Beaty told the paper on Monday. He is accused of sexual battery at a hotel in Florence, S.C. on the same night (Feb. 6) that he played a show in the city for approximately 1,200 fans; his Florida lawyers said on Monday that their client's name will be cleared in the second charge, which could carry a punishment of up to 30 years in prison. "We are firmly convinced that he will be vindicated in that charge and shortly be set free," attorney Gary Kollin told the . "He's looking forward to getting to South Carolina so he can go on with his life and career." An Atlantic Records spokesperson for the rapper could not be reached for comment at press time. Though he's yet to release his debut album, Kodak dropped the songs "Chances" and "Jailhouse Blues" while behind bars.  Black also had a stint at St. Broward County jail before landing at St. Lucie on multiple charges that included robbery, false imprisonment, drug possession, firearm possession, and fleeing a law enforcement officer.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

UPDATE: Kodak Black has issued the following statement about his recent release from jail: "I'm happy to finally be going home to my family and friends. I look forward to clearing my name in the very near future. I want to thank God, my family , my team (Vanessa, Phatboy and James McMillan), Atlantic Records, my lawyers and all of my fans for your continuous love and support. I can't wait to get back to doing what I love most - working at being the illest rapper alive."

After serving more than two months in a St. Lucie County, Florida, jail on two misdemeanor drug charges, 19-year-old rapper Kodak Black (born Dieuson Octave) was released on Monday (Nov. 28) afternoon only to be transferred into custody of South Carolina deputies. The Sun-Sentinel reported that the "Skrt" rapper will be extradited to S.C. to face a charge of criminal sexual conduct; the paper said Black appeared at an extradition hearing on Nov. 21, where a judge approved his transfer.

"It does say that he has been turned over to South Carolina via the Florence County Sheriff's Office," St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office spokesman Deputy Bryan Beaty told the paper on Monday. He is accused of sexual battery at a hotel in Florence, S.C. on the same night (Feb. 6) that he played a show in the city for approximately 1,200 fans; his Florida lawyers said on Monday that their client's name will be cleared in the second charge, which could carry a punishment of up to 30 years in prison.

"We are firmly convinced that he will be vindicated in that charge and shortly be set free," attorney Gary Kollin told the Sun-Sentinel. "He's looking forward to getting to South Carolina so he can go on with his life and career." An Atlantic Records spokesperson for the rapper could not be reached for comment at press time. Though he's yet to release his debut album, Kodak dropped the songs "Chances" and "Jailhouse Blues" while behind bars.

Black also had a stint at St. Broward County jail before landing at St. Lucie on multiple charges that included robbery, false imprisonment, drug possession, firearm possession, and fleeing a law enforcement officer.