Woman Gives Birth Amid Tornado Destruction in Tennessee
Woman Gives Birth Amid Tornado Destruction in Tennessee


LiLou was brought in to help reduce stress at the busy airport.

Officer Sean Bulow helped raise more than $1,100 with his dance moves outside a Cleveland, Tennessee, Walmart.

Therapy dogs are bringing comfort to families who lost loved ones in Oakland warehouse fire that claimed 36 lives.

President-elect Donald Trump wants Iowa's Republican governor to be the next U.S. ambassador to China - and it looks like Terry Branstad is ready to accept the job in Beijing.

The NTSB has been called in to determine the cause of the crash and if the bus driver was speeding.

At least seven people are dead and up to a dozen are injured after explosive wildfires ripped through Tennessee. CBS News correspondent DeMarco Morgan is there, and joins CBSN with the latest on the destruction.

Tornadoes hit from Louisiana to Tennessee, leaving behind a path of destruction and leaving thousands without power.

Rain in Tennessee provided some help to crews battling deadly wildfires in the Great Smoky Mountains. Three bodies were recovered Wednesday, bringing the death toll to at least seven. The fires destroyed at least 700 buildings. DeMarco Morgan has more.

A Tennessee woman gave birth to a daughter Wednesday just after being rescued from the devastation of a tornado that swept through her town.

A Tennessee woman gave birth to a daughter Wednesday just after being rescued from the devastation of a tornado that swept through her town.

View gallery . (Photo of Amber Newman)

Nearly 20 first responders from Englewood and the nearby Etowah Rural Fire Department drove as close as possible to the home of the pregnant woman, Amber Newman. They then walked nearly three miles to her home when their rescue trucks were blocked by debris.

Newman was inside her family’s home along with her parents, her teen sisters and 8-year-old brother, according to another sister, Ashley Newman, who was not at home at the time.

Ashley Newman told ABC News that the family hid in a bathroom as their home was thrown in the air and flipped several times before landing more than 200 feet away. Her mother, April Newman, who was in the home at the time said she "prayed to God" during the storm.

View gallery . (Courtesy: Ashley Newman) earthquake," April Newman told ABC News. "I remember hearing the wind and everything going around and around. I held on to my son the whole time and just prayed to God."

It took nearly four hours for first responders to get the Newman family to local hospitals; responders had to physically clear a path through tornado debris for the rescue vehicles to travel. Newman, who was not available for comment, gave birth via caesarean section to a healthy baby girl she named Ava.

Newman suffered a bad gash on her leg but is otherwise doing well, according to her sister. The siblings' parents needed stitches and suffered minor injuries. The Newman kids suffered injuries including a broken arm, torn ACL and broken foot.

“It’s a miracle,” Roach told ABC News, describing the work done by the first responders as "indescribable."

He added, “It’s just amazing what they did.”

Des Ferguson, a friend of Newman’s, posted photos on Facebook of the baby, Ava. She also put out a call to help Newman rebuild after the tornado.







Newman was originally due to give birth on Dec. 7, according to her mother.

The tornado that struck McMinn County, Tennessee, Wednesday was an EF-2 tornado that injured 20 people and damaged 30 structures, according to officials. McMinn County mayor John Gentry described Ava’s birth as a bright spot after the deadly tornado.

“We had 20 injured (in the tornado) and one brand new life. The Lord works in mysterious ways,” Gentry said during a press conference Wednesday.