Are Apple iPhone 8 Rumors Titillating Enough To Entice Android Loyalists?
Are Apple iPhone 8 Rumors Titillating Enough To Entice Android Loyalists?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Curtis Silver       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. With less than a month left in 2016 and only a few months removed from the release of the iPhone 7, the fanboys are already frothing at the mouth for the iPhone 8. With a delicious plate of early rumors already being served, one has to wonder if these rumors will stay hot and fresh or wilt under the heat lamps. Will Android users be saddling up to the Apple buffet for a scoop of iPhone 8? Not to be left out, the Samsung Galaxy S8 rumors are already flying, which should finally pack the dirt on the issues surrounding the Galaxy Note 7. Rumors surrounding a new iPhone are always taken with a grain of salt, especially this early in the process. Yet, it seems that Apple is already pushing to get something truly fresh and new to the market. It should be noted that the 3.5mm headphone jack won't be making a comeback with the iPhone 8, so you best get over that right now. The major rumors are: there will be three models of iPhone, all three will be glass chassis, wireless charging and thinner, brighter OLED screens. Additionally, the home button will become history. If these rumors hold true, the iPhone 8 could be the iPhone that attracts more Android users than ever before. Android users, while almost always presented with many options from numerous manufacturers, are just as loyal to their OS as iPhone users are to iOS. Yet, the edge-less design, wireless charging and OLED are pretty attractive selling points when considering a hardware switch. While Apple fanboys are already mentally waiting in line for the iPhone 8, will these rumored changes motivate not only Android users, but Apple users who skipped the iPhone 7? Both parties are waiting for Apple to truly take that next leap forward. "I just switched back to an iPhone 7+ after being Android for a few years," says one area iPhone user salivating for that innovation that Apple is apparently famous for. "No plans to upgrade unless something truly new comes out and then I'd consider it. I'm not enough of a fan boy to get excited until I see it. Especially with the latest batch of silly decisions Apple has made with their products." In effect, the iPhone 7 was basically the of Apple phones, a placeholder until a much more worthy sequel is produced, something that really shakes up the story. So this whole edge-less glass OLED screen thing could be the Samuel L. Jackson of iPhones. Previous iPhone models, while each offering something the previous models didn't, just haven't seemed to really have the emotional impact we're used to from Apple. There wasn't a sense of lust or in the case of Android users, jealously. "The polish is off the Apple," punned another user, who skipped purchasing the iPhone 7. "Still like the brand and products, but they are no longer 'insanely great'. I used to covet them. Now it's just a purchase." That's why early rumors are sparking a fervor in the tech community. Whether or not these rumors are true, we need Apple to keep the passion alive in this relationship. The seven-year-itch clearly applies to technology. Several users told me they had recently switched to the Pixel phone from the iPhone 5 or iPhone 6. The onus is on Apple to litter the bedroom floor with rose petals, light some candles and put some spark back in this affair. At first glance, these iPhone 8 rumors should be enough to moisten the fingertips of some Android users, especially those who are rightly soured on Samsung. The key for Apple will be recognizing that its ecosystem doesn't have to be constrained to just current users and die-hards, that there is room for new blood -- without stigma -- and sell to that market. Less , more The iPhone 8 is rumored to be in production at some point for a release date of who the hell knows. Meet The Apple iPhone 7 And 7 Plus    Trending on {{channel_name}}

This Bulletproof Iphone Could Save Your Life

With less than a month left in 2016 and only a few months removed from the release of the iPhone 7, the fanboys are already frothing at the mouth for the iPhone 8. With a delicious plate of early rumors already being served, one has to wonder if these rumors will stay hot and fresh or wilt under the heat lamps. Will Android users be saddling up to the Apple buffet for a scoop of iPhone 8? Not to be left out, the Samsung Galaxy S8 rumors are already flying, which should finally pack the dirt on the issues surrounding the Galaxy Note 7.

Rumors surrounding a new iPhone are always taken with a grain of salt, especially this early in the process. Yet, it seems that Apple is already pushing to get something truly fresh and new to the market. It should be noted that the 3.5mm headphone jack won't be making a comeback with the iPhone 8, so you best get over that right now. The major rumors are: there will be three models of iPhone, all three will be glass chassis, wireless charging and thinner, brighter OLED screens. Additionally, the home button will become history.

Also see: Apple Releases Most Narcissistic Coffee Table Book Ever

If these rumors hold true, the iPhone 8 could be the iPhone that attracts more Android users than ever before. Android users, while almost always presented with many options from numerous manufacturers, are just as loyal to their OS as iPhone users are to iOS. Yet, the edge-less design, wireless charging and OLED are pretty attractive selling points when considering a hardware switch.

While Apple fanboys are already mentally waiting in line for the iPhone 8, will these rumored changes motivate not only Android users, but Apple users who skipped the iPhone 7? Both parties are waiting for Apple to truly take that next leap forward. "I just switched back to an iPhone 7+ after being Android for a few years," says one area iPhone user salivating for that innovation that Apple is apparently famous for. "No plans to upgrade unless something truly new comes out and then I'd consider it. I'm not enough of a fan boy to get excited until I see it. Especially with the latest batch of silly decisions Apple has made with their products."

In effect, the iPhone 7 was basically the Die Hard 2 of Apple phones, a placeholder until a much more worthy sequel is produced, something that really shakes up the story. So this whole edge-less glass OLED screen thing could be the Samuel L. Jackson of iPhones. Previous iPhone models, while each offering something the previous models didn't, just haven't seemed to really have the emotional impact we're used to from Apple. There wasn't a sense of lust or in the case of Android users, jealously.

"The polish is off the Apple," punned another user, who skipped purchasing the iPhone 7. "Still like the brand and products, but they are no longer 'insanely great'. I used to covet them. Now it's just a purchase."

That's why early rumors are sparking a fervor in the tech community. Whether or not these rumors are true, we need Apple to keep the passion alive in this relationship. The seven-year-itch clearly applies to technology. Several users told me they had recently switched to the Pixel phone from the iPhone 5 or iPhone 6. The onus is on Apple to litter the bedroom floor with rose petals, light some candles and put some spark back in this affair.

At first glance, these iPhone 8 rumors should be enough to moisten the fingertips of some Android users, especially those who are rightly soured on Samsung. The key for Apple will be recognizing that its ecosystem doesn't have to be constrained to just current users and die-hards, that there is room for new blood -- without stigma -- and sell to that market. Less Eyes Wide Shut, more Interview With A Vampire.

The iPhone 8 is rumored to be in production at some point for a release date of who the hell knows.