Business Schools That Will Dominate In The 21st Century
Business Schools That Will Dominate In The 21st Century
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Dileep Rao       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. NEW YORK, NY - NOVEMBER 10: Kim B. Clark Professor of Business Administration Harvard Business School Clay Christensen speaks at The New York Times DealBook Conference at Jazz at Lincoln Center on November 10, 2016 in New York City. (Photo by Bryan Bedder/Getty Images for The New York Times ) Business schools (B-Schools) will be dragged into the 21 Century – kicking and screaming. The Internet will increase the capacity of the B-Schools and allow them to sell globally. This means that sheltered markets will open – and many B-Schools will fail. But new markets are also opening. Here are four strategies that B-Schools can consider to dominate. B-Schools currently focus on teaching skills to (potential) managers in large corporations. Nearly all the departments in B-Schools from finance to HR are focused on corporate issues. This focus has been profitable to-date since the market was expanding. But since the top schools can easily dominate this segment with new technology, the second, third, and lower tiers are in jeopardy. And corporate B-Schools, which have grown to an estimated 4,000, will further eat into this lucrative market . The problem will be exacerbated by the high cost of research-focused faculty whose research does not generate revenues. Previously, donations from successful entrepreneurs helped offset these costs. This may end when E-Schools take off (see later). B-Schools need to focus where they can excel. The era of general-purpose B-Schools will end. Corporations focus on evolutionary innovation. And authors Christensen, Raynor, and McDonald note that disruptive innovation is for small enterprises targeting overlooked customers.  But revolutionary innovations create major opportunities, as emerging trends change the rules of the game, as evidenced by upstart entrepreneurs from Jobs to Bezos and Zuckerberg. Corporations need to learn to succeed in revolutionary innovations and trends to avoid the fate of historical icons such as Kodak, Control Data, Digital Equipment, and Sears. Corporations need to know how to counter negative impacts of revolutionary trends, and the destruction of their advantage in the existing business model, the value of their existing assets, and the benefits from existing skills. What should they do when a 30-something, like a Bezos, knows more about winning in new trends than they do, and their assets become obsolete. This focus can serve two markets – corporate managers and the entrepreneurs who want to topple them. Entrepreneurship is a step-child in business schools today. By splitting from B-Schools, entrepreneurship can expand to satisfy the unique needs of segments such as small-business owners, mid-sized business founders, and revolutionary entrepreneurs who want to build the next giant corporations on emerging trends. E-Schools can focus on each sector’s needs, and teach them entrepreneurial finance, entrepreneurial marketing, entrepreneurial strategy, and so on. Today, students learn capital-intensive, trend-based corporate strategies that may be irrelevant in ventures without resources or history. E-Schools can also develop finance-smart entrepreneurs who can build bigger businesses without VC. VCs focus on high-potential opportunities and have succeeded mainly in Silicon Valley in emerging industries. Outside Silicon Valley, billion-dollar entrepreneurs mainly succeeded without VC by becoming well-rounded, finance-smart entrepreneurs. E-Schools can develop finance-smart entrepreneurs with the skills to grow by controlling capital. E-Schools can also develop entrepreneurs to master revolutionary innovation and develop giant companies in emerging trends with leading-edge products, services, business models, organizational models, and leadership skills. Revolutionary innovation has more in common with entrepreneurship than the rest of the B-School. New trends often require a new way of doing business, as shown by the 20- and 30-something billion-dollar entrepreneurs such as Gates, Bezos, and Kalanick, who toppled, and are toppling, obsolete giants. Corporations may also want their employees and managers to know about revolutionary innovation. They can also partner with the E-schools and use lower-cost student-interns to test alternate business models in emerging trends without being stifled by corporate-think – giving real-life experience to students while reducing the cost to test new business-models. Successful entrepreneurs are more likely to donate money to their alma maters’ E-Schools for practical entrepreneur development rather than for impractical academic research. With improving technology, business education will migrate to the web and make geography irrelevant. Those who take advantage with new business models will win. The Internet can open new markets, such as high school seniors who can learn new-business skills online, and develop the confidence to be a business leader. Leadership: B-School deans will need to show mastery of revolutionary innovation to successfully build new businesses in emerging industries. Faculty: To succeed, B- and E-School faculty will need to merge theory and practice in evolutionary management, in revolutionary innovation, and finance-smart entrepreneurship. The hardest task in the world is to stop an idea whose time has come. Unfortunately for business academics, trends favor more competition, easier expansion, and new educational technologies and needs – all of which will combine to alter and consolidate business schools. What emerges will be fantastic for students, entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial corporations.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Hyq – The Four-legged Robot For Disaster Zones

Business schools (B-Schools) will be dragged into the 21st Century – kicking and screaming. The Internet will increase the capacity of the B-Schools and allow them to sell globally. This means that sheltered markets will open – and many B-Schools will fail. But new markets are also opening. Here are four strategies that B-Schools can consider to dominate.

Dominate the Maturing Corporate B-School Market

B-Schools currently focus on teaching skills to (potential) managers in large corporations. Nearly all the departments in B-Schools from finance to HR are focused on corporate issues. This focus has been profitable to-date since the market was expanding. But since the top schools can easily dominate this segment with new technology, the second, third, and lower tiers are in jeopardy. And corporate B-Schools, which have grown to an estimated 4,000, will further eat into this lucrative market. The problem will be exacerbated by the high cost of research-focused faculty whose research does not generate revenues. Previously, donations from successful entrepreneurs helped offset these costs. This may end when E-Schools take off (see later). B-Schools need to focus where they can excel. The era of general-purpose B-Schools will end.

Revolutionary Innovation

Corporations focus on evolutionary innovation. And authors Christensen, Raynor, and McDonald note that disruptive innovation is for small enterprises targeting overlooked customers. But revolutionary innovations create major opportunities, as emerging trends change the rules of the game, as evidenced by upstart entrepreneurs from Jobs to Bezos and Zuckerberg. Corporations need to learn to succeed in revolutionary innovations and trends to avoid the fate of historical icons such as Kodak, Control Data, Digital Equipment, and Sears. Corporations need to know how to counter negative impacts of revolutionary trends, and the destruction of their advantage in the existing business model, the value of their existing assets, and the benefits from existing skills. What should they do when a 30-something, like a Bezos, knows more about winning in new trends than they do, and their assets become obsolete. This focus can serve two markets – corporate managers and the entrepreneurs who want to topple them.

Entrepreneurial Market

Entrepreneurship is a step-child in business schools today. By splitting from B-Schools, entrepreneurship can expand to satisfy the unique needs of segments such as small-business owners, mid-sized business founders, and revolutionary entrepreneurs who want to build the next giant corporations on emerging trends. E-Schools can focus on each sector’s needs, and teach them entrepreneurial finance, entrepreneurial marketing, entrepreneurial strategy, and so on. Today, students learn capital-intensive, trend-based corporate strategies that may be irrelevant in ventures without resources or history.

E-Schools can also develop finance-smart entrepreneurs who can build bigger businesses without VC. VCs focus on high-potential opportunities and have succeeded mainly in Silicon Valley in emerging industries. Outside Silicon Valley, billion-dollar entrepreneurs mainly succeeded without VC by becoming well-rounded, finance-smart entrepreneurs. E-Schools can develop finance-smart entrepreneurs with the skills to grow by controlling capital.

E-Schools can also develop entrepreneurs to master revolutionary innovation and develop giant companies in emerging trends with leading-edge products, services, business models, organizational models, and leadership skills. Revolutionary innovation has more in common with entrepreneurship than the rest of the B-School. New trends often require a new way of doing business, as shown by the 20- and 30-something billion-dollar entrepreneurs such as Gates, Bezos, and Kalanick, who toppled, and are toppling, obsolete giants.

Corporations may also want their employees and managers to know about revolutionary innovation. They can also partner with the E-schools and use lower-cost student-interns to test alternate business models in emerging trends without being stifled by corporate-think – giving real-life experience to students while reducing the cost to test new business-models.

Successful entrepreneurs are more likely to donate money to their alma maters’ E-Schools for practical entrepreneur development rather than for impractical academic research.

Online Education

With improving technology, business education will migrate to the web and make geography irrelevant. Those who take advantage with new business models will win.

The Internet can open new markets, such as high school seniors who can learn new-business skills online, and develop the confidence to be a business leader.

To succeed, the key hurdles will be the following:

Leadership: B-School deans will need to show mastery of revolutionary innovation to successfully build new businesses in emerging industries.

Faculty: To succeed, B- and E-School faculty will need to merge theory and practice in evolutionary management, in revolutionary innovation, and finance-smart entrepreneurship.

MY TAKE: The hardest task in the world is to stop an idea whose time has come. Unfortunately for business academics, trends favor more competition, easier expansion, and new educational technologies and needs – all of which will combine to alter and consolidate business schools. What emerges will be fantastic for students, entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial corporations.