Charleston Church Shooting Trial Set to Begin Next Week
Charleston Church Shooting Trial Set to Begin Next Week
Shares                The long-awaited federal death penalty trial of the white man charged with the shooting deaths of nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church is scheduled to get underway next week with the final seating of a jury. U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel ruled Thursday that he anticipates the jury of 12 members and six alternates who will hear the case against Dylann Roof will be selected next Wednesday in Charleston. After that process is completed, opening statements can begin. Roof, 22, faces dozens of federal charges, including hate crimes and obstruction of the practice of religion, in connection with the June 2015 slayings at Emanuel AME Church. He is representing himself in his federal trial and has previously offered to plead guilty if prosecutors drop their pursuit of the death penalty. The jury selection process has been ongoing this week with the qualification of a pool of 70 potential jurors. Provided that process wraps up as anticipated on Friday, the judge said that he will hold a pretrial conference on Monday. There will be no court on Tuesday. Gergel granted Roof's request for an additional day to prepare for trial. While Roof is acting as his own lawyer, his former defense team is staying on as legal advisers. In a motion filed Thursday, those attorneys argue the court is hampering Roof's defense by not allowing them to play a larger role. "It should be apparent to everyone observing these one-sided proceedings that despite the defendant's best efforts, there is much being left unaddressed as jury selection proceeds," wrote the team, headed by capital defender David Bruck. "The Court's refusal to exercise the discretion granted it by the Supreme Court to provide the defendant reasonable, limited assistance from standby counsel is therefore thwarting rather than promoting justice." Gergel has repeatedly told Roof and his advisers that he wants the defendant himself, not the legal team, to address him in court. In an order filed Wednesday, the judge explained his rationale for allowing Roof to act as his own attorney, saying the defendant was highly intelligent and understood the consequences of his decision, which Gergel called "very unwise." "Defendant's decision to forego (sic) the services of the nation's foremost capital defense attorneys is, in the Court's view, unwise, but the law does not permit the Court to reject Defendant's assertion of his constitutional right to represent himself because it is foolhardy," the judge wrote. ——— Kinnard can be reached at http://twitter.com/MegKinnardAP . Read more of her work at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/meg-kinnard/  Shares                  Charleston Church Shooting Trial Set to Begin Next Week   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants in NYC Reported to Have Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Michigan Recount Now in Doubt; Pennsylvania Sets Hearing   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level   Witness to Fatal Will Smith Shooting Says Suspect Showed 'No Remorse'   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Hundreds Protest White Nationalist at Texas A&M University   China Warns US on Taiwan Leader's Planned Transit   Innovation or Monopoly? Panel Looks at ATT-Time Warner Deal   FBI: 'No Evidence' LA Metro Terror Threat Credible   Attorney: Park Service Quashing Dissent During Inauguration   Men Left 'to Die': Gen. James Mattis' Controversial Wartime Decision   Everything You Need to Know About Gen. James Mattis   Therapy Pig LiLou at San Francisco Airport Helps People Fly   Winter Health Hazards: Tips on Surviving Icy Temps   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'

The long-awaited federal death penalty trial of the white man charged with the shooting deaths of nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church is scheduled to get underway next week with the final seating of a jury.

U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel ruled Thursday that he anticipates the jury of 12 members and six alternates who will hear the case against Dylann Roof will be selected next Wednesday in Charleston. After that process is completed, opening statements can begin.

Roof, 22, faces dozens of federal charges, including hate crimes and obstruction of the practice of religion, in connection with the June 2015 slayings at Emanuel AME Church. He is representing himself in his federal trial and has previously offered to plead guilty if prosecutors drop their pursuit of the death penalty.

The jury selection process has been ongoing this week with the qualification of a pool of 70 potential jurors. Provided that process wraps up as anticipated on Friday, the judge said that he will hold a pretrial conference on Monday.

There will be no court on Tuesday. Gergel granted Roof's request for an additional day to prepare for trial.

While Roof is acting as his own lawyer, his former defense team is staying on as legal advisers. In a motion filed Thursday, those attorneys argue the court is hampering Roof's defense by not allowing them to play a larger role.

"It should be apparent to everyone observing these one-sided proceedings that despite the defendant's best efforts, there is much being left unaddressed as jury selection proceeds," wrote the team, headed by capital defender David Bruck. "The Court's refusal to exercise the discretion granted it by the Supreme Court to provide the defendant reasonable, limited assistance from standby counsel is therefore thwarting rather than promoting justice."

Gergel has repeatedly told Roof and his advisers that he wants the defendant himself, not the legal team, to address him in court. In an order filed Wednesday, the judge explained his rationale for allowing Roof to act as his own attorney, saying the defendant was highly intelligent and understood the consequences of his decision, which Gergel called "very unwise."

"Defendant's decision to forego (sic) the services of the nation's foremost capital defense attorneys is, in the Court's view, unwise, but the law does not permit the Court to reject Defendant's assertion of his constitutional right to represent himself because it is foolhardy," the judge wrote.

———

Kinnard can be reached at http://twitter.com/MegKinnardAP . Read more of her work at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/meg-kinnard/