Trump Warns US Companies: There Will Be 'Consequences' for Leaving
Trump Warns US Companies: There Will Be 'Consequences' for Leaving
Shares               President-elect Donald Trump touted his deal to keep at least 1,000 jobs at a manufacturing plant in Indianapolis, but he was largely silent on the details. "Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without consequences," he said to workers at the Carrier plant. "These companies aren't going to be leaving anymore. They aren't going to be taking people's hearts out." Before the event, Trump toured the facility alongside Vice President–elect Mike Pence.       Carrier said the agreement is due in part to the incoming administration's lobbying as well as state tax incentives. Trump's transition team has refused to publicly disclose the full details of the deal, but company officials said in a statement today that the state of Indiana, where Pence is governor, offered the company a $7 million package over multiple years, contingent on factors including employment, job retention and capital investment. The state tax incentives appear to be a stark contrast from what Trump said on the campaign trail where he threatened to levy a 35 percent tax against Carrier imports if the company moved production to Mexico. During the rally, Trump recounted his conversations with United Technologies chairman Greg Hayes and said he personally lobbied him to not open their planned manufacturing plant in Mexico. "I called Greg Hayes, I heard of him but I never met him and he picked up the phone "Mr. President-elect, sir, how are you?"" Trump said. "It's wonderful to win. Think if I lost he would have returned my call? I don't know." Trump then put other companies potentially considering a move out of the United States on notice. "We won't need so much flexibility for other companies because we are going to have a situation where they're going to know, number one we'll treat them well, and number two there will be consequences," Trump said. "Meaning, they'll be taxed very heavily at the border if they want leave, to fire their people, leave, make product in different countries and then think they'll sell that product over the border." After Indianapolis, Trump heads to Cincinnati, where he will kick off his thank-you tour at 7 p.m. ET. The rally will be his first since his victory party on Nov. 9. It is being held at U.S. Bank Arena, the site of one of his largest rallies during the campaign. Trump's often boisterous behavior during rallies defined a large part of his campaign, though it's unclear whether he will use the same approach with his tour. In recent interviews, he has signaled some awareness of real divisions in the country after his upset victory, though his Twitter feed has revealed his frustration with the recount effort in three states pushed by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and with Hillary Clinton 's wide lead in the popular vote. As he continues working with aides on the massive transition effort, he plans to visit states that he won and some where he didn't prevail, according to a Trump official. Shares                  Trump Warns US Companies: There Will Be 'Consequences' for Leaving  What Happens to Trump's Businesses After He Takes Office?  A Look at 5 Trump Business Ties That Pose Conflicts   When Bahrain Books Trump Ballroom, Critics See Attempt to Curry Favor   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   First Lady Brings Staffers to Tears at Emotional Final Staff Holiday Party   Trump Says Japanese Firm Will Invest $50B in US   Trump Expected to Pick Gen. John Kelly as DHS Secretary   Dole Helped Taiwan With Trump Contacts for Months: Document   Iowa Governor Is Trump's Pick for US Ambassador to China   The Note: The Business of Trump   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   ANALYSIS: Finding the Loyalists in Trump's Administration   Joe Biden Leaves Door Open for 2020 Run   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

President-elect Donald Trump touted his deal to keep at least 1,000 jobs at a manufacturing plant in Indianapolis, but he was largely silent on the details.

"Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without consequences," he said to workers at the Carrier plant. "These companies aren't going to be leaving anymore. They aren't going to be taking people's hearts out."

Before the event, Trump toured the facility alongside Vice President–elect Mike Pence.

Carrier said the agreement is due in part to the incoming administration's lobbying as well as state tax incentives. Trump's transition team has refused to publicly disclose the full details of the deal, but company officials said in a statement today that the state of Indiana, where Pence is governor, offered the company a $7 million package over multiple years, contingent on factors including employment, job retention and capital investment.

The state tax incentives appear to be a stark contrast from what Trump said on the campaign trail where he threatened to levy a 35 percent tax against Carrier imports if the company moved production to Mexico.

During the rally, Trump recounted his conversations with United Technologies chairman Greg Hayes and said he personally lobbied him to not open their planned manufacturing plant in Mexico.

"I called Greg Hayes, I heard of him but I never met him and he picked up the phone "Mr. President-elect, sir, how are you?"" Trump said. "It's wonderful to win. Think if I lost he would have returned my call? I don't know."

Trump then put other companies potentially considering a move out of the United States on notice.

"We won't need so much flexibility for other companies because we are going to have a situation where they're going to know, number one we'll treat them well, and number two there will be consequences," Trump said. "Meaning, they'll be taxed very heavily at the border if they want leave, to fire their people, leave, make product in different countries and then think they'll sell that product over the border."

After Indianapolis, Trump heads to Cincinnati, where he will kick off his thank-you tour at 7 p.m. ET.

The rally will be his first since his victory party on Nov. 9. It is being held at U.S. Bank Arena, the site of one of his largest rallies during the campaign.

Trump's often boisterous behavior during rallies defined a large part of his campaign, though it's unclear whether he will use the same approach with his tour. In recent interviews, he has signaled some awareness of real divisions in the country after his upset victory, though his Twitter feed has revealed his frustration with the recount effort in three states pushed by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and with Hillary Clinton's wide lead in the popular vote.

As he continues working with aides on the massive transition effort, he plans to visit states that he won and some where he didn't prevail, according to a Trump official.