Former Jets, Chiefs RB Joe McKnight killed in Louisiana shooting
Former Jets, Chiefs RB Joe McKnight killed in Louisiana shooting
Former NFL running back Joe McKnight has been identified as the victim of a fatal shooting on Thursday in Terrytown, La. According to the New Orleans Times-Picayune , McKnight, 28, was killed at approximately 3 p.m. local time after an argument at an intersection in the suburb just across the Mississippi River from New Orleans. Family members identified McKnight as the victim. Witnesses at the scene say that McKnight was appearing to apologize after an argument between the two men before he was shot multiple times and killed. McKnight, whose family was uprooted by Hurricane Katrina, grew up in the area and was a local high school football star who attended USC, and it was former New Orleans Saints and Trojans running back Reggie Bush who often is credited with helping recruit McKnight to go west. RIP my brother Joe McKnight this one hurts bad — Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) December 1, 2016 The alleged shooter, identified as a 54-year-old man, is in custody, according to the Times-Picayune. A fourth-round pick in 2010, McKnight spent three seasons with the New York Jets, both as a running back and briefly as a cornerback. He holds the mark for longest play in Jets history — a 107-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against the Baltimore Ravens in 2012. McKnight also spent two games with the Kansas City Chiefs in 2014 and totaled 505 rushing yards and 241 receiving yards in his NFL career. Injuries and fumbles derailed his NFL career. McKnight also spent time this season with the CFL’s Edmonton Eskimos and Saskatchewan Roughriders.   is a writer for on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at edholm@yahoo-inc.com or follow him on Twitter! Follow @Eric_Edholm

Former NFL running back Joe McKnight has been identified as the victim of a fatal shooting on Thursday in Terrytown, La.

According to the New Orleans Times-Picayune, McKnight, 28, was killed at approximately 3 p.m. local time after an argument at an intersection in the suburb just across the Mississippi River from New Orleans. Family members identified McKnight as the victim. Witnesses at the scene say that McKnight was appearing to apologize after an argument between the two men before he was shot multiple times and killed.

Joe McKnight played two games for the Chiefs in 2014. (AP) More

McKnight, whose family was uprooted by Hurricane Katrina, grew up in the area and was a local high school football star who attended USC, and it was former New Orleans Saints and Trojans running back Reggie Bush who often is credited with helping recruit McKnight to go west.

RIP my brother Joe McKnight this one hurts bad — Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) December 1, 2016





The alleged shooter, identified as a 54-year-old man, is in custody, according to the Times-Picayune.

A fourth-round pick in 2010, McKnight spent three seasons with the New York Jets, both as a running back and briefly as a cornerback. He holds the mark for longest play in Jets history — a 107-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against the Baltimore Ravens in 2012. McKnight also spent two games with the Kansas City Chiefs in 2014 and totaled 505 rushing yards and 241 receiving yards in his NFL career. Injuries and fumbles derailed his NFL career.

McKnight also spent time this season with the CFL’s Edmonton Eskimos and Saskatchewan Roughriders.

– – – – – – –

Eric Edholm is a writer for Shutdown Corner on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at edholm@yahoo-inc.com or follow him on Twitter!

Follow @Eric_Edholm