WATCH: Jesse Watters Confronts MA College Pres. Over Flag Removal

WATCH: Jesse Watters Confronts MA College Pres. Over Flag Removal // // // // // . @jessebwatters confronts Hampshire College president who removed the American flag from campus (via @oreillyfactor ) pic.twitter.com/QcTxiXzXfq — FOX & Friends (@foxandfriends) December 1, 2016 Jesse Watters visited Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., to ask some of the residents about the college removing the American flag from campus, and attempted to get some answers from the school's president, Jonathan Lash. On his way into his house, Lash refused to speak about his decision, which has led to demonstrations. "Don't you realize the whole country is laughing at you right now? ... Don't you think you owe it to the veterans to explain yourself?" Watters asked. Lash still refused to comment before retreating into his home. O'Reilly called Lash a "villain and a coward" who does not have the "courage of his convictions." Residents, meanwhile, mostly disagreed with the school's decision. One man said that many people in the town are "leftist" and live in an "alternative universe." Another noted that in the center of the town, a United Nations flag is flying near town hall. Watch the full segment below.

.@jessebwatters confronts Hampshire College president who removed the American flag from campus (via @oreillyfactor) pic.twitter.com/QcTxiXzXfq — FOX & Friends (@foxandfriends) December 1, 2016

Whoopi Goldberg Defends Flag-Burners: 'They Don't Hate The Country'

FBI: 'Too Soon' to Determine If Ohio State Attack Was Terrorism

McCain: Dems Have Real Identity Problem, Need to Do an 'Autopsy Report'

Jesse Watters visited Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., to ask some of the residents about the college removing the American flag from campus, and attempted to get some answers from the school's president, Jonathan Lash.

On his way into his house, Lash refused to speak about his decision, which has led to demonstrations.

"Don't you realize the whole country is laughing at you right now? ... Don't you think you owe it to the veterans to explain yourself?" Watters asked.

Lash still refused to comment before retreating into his home.

O'Reilly called Lash a "villain and a coward" who does not have the "courage of his convictions."

Residents, meanwhile, mostly disagreed with the school's decision. One man said that many people in the town are "leftist" and live in an "alternative universe."

Another noted that in the center of the town, a United Nations flag is flying near town hall.

Watch the full segment below.

WATCH: Tucker Debates Prof. on Islamophobia's Role in Terrorism

WATCH: Gutfeld Blasts Obama for Blaming Fox News for Democrats' Defeat

NASCAR Track, TN Supermarket Pitch In to Help Wildfire Victims