The Apprentice 2016, episode 9, talking points: the double firing was unfair, plus Karren Brady steals Lord Sugar’s limelight yet again
The Apprentice 2016, episode 9, talking points: the double firing was unfair, plus Karren Brady steals Lord Sugar’s limelight yet again
he suitcase-wheeling race entered its home stretch with one of those “ooh, how modern!” tech tasks. Karren Brady and Claude Littner unexpectedly arrived at the candidates’ front door – not to sing Christmas carols, sadly, but to brief both teams on creating a new virtual reality game. Team Nebula went inter-galactic, while Titans dived deep into the ocean – before both pitched their product to gaming enthusiasts and industry experts at the Comic Con expo, in front of the biggest audience in Apprentice history. No pressure. o who notched a high score and who got told it was game over? Here’s our talking points from episode nine… Double firing was fun but unfair Rapid-fire points of Lord Sugar’s pudgy firing finger are always exciting but were they entirely fair in this case? OK, so Sofiane Khelfa’s departure was overdue. Appointed Titans leader on the basis that he’d sold a few VR headsets in his day job, the hair-gelled autocrat was way out of his depth: splitting sub-teams unwisely, going off-script during the pitch and proving inarticulate in the boardroom. Sofiane’s had trouble following other people’s orders and here he couldn’t even follow his own. His fate was deserved. owever, sacking seemed harsh on arty-farty Dubliner Dillon St Paul. Sure, the silver fox fashionista’s ceaseless boasting about his creativity has been irritating and underwater puzzle game Magic Shells was lame (perhaps Dillon was still pining for last week’s performing mermaids). Karren Brady interview: ‘There is no longer a glass ceiling in business’ Yet his team-mates were dead weights and it was hardly Dillon’s fault that he envisioned a dashing Atlantis hero and ended up with a cutesy toddler. His stirring speech about being a small-town boy battling homophobia in the big city was a last desperate roll of the dice. Still, at least he got the accolade of “With regret…” before being fired. Dillon’s cab comment was a contender for best ever Just a fortnight ago, we had one of the best back-of-cab exit interviews in Apprentice history, when Rebecca Jeffery cheerfully posited: “I went because I’m not a t---. That’s my downfall. I haven’t been enough of a t---” illon’s departing remarks were right up there. “I was dealing with a bunch of monkeys on that task,” he sighed, before immediately perking up. “The plan is, get back to Dublin, get a spray-tan and conquer the magazine world.” Who knew a teak colouration was crucial to publishing success? Teaming his grey hair with an orange face, Dillon might resemble a mini Robert Kilroy-Silk or dashing young David Dickinson. What a bobby-dazzler. Try-hard task didn’t suit the time-frame Perhaps Lord Sugar came over all misty-eyed about 80s schoolboys mashing the buttons on Amstrad PCs, hence his decision to tackle gaming for this week’s task - featuring that frankly terrifying “cyber Alan” in the virtual boardroom. It’s admirable when The Apprentice tries to move with the times and embrace technology but this task had all the authenticity of a space badger. Building even the most simplistic VR game takes months of development, design and coding. Here the teams had just one day. No wonder their attempts were a bit rubbish. Worst cartoon characters since Pants-Man stro Badger with his random rainbow quiff. The strangely unseen Galactic Gordon. The Coral Kid, who looked like a Lego figure in a diving bell. This episode’s lame avatars recalled the Apprentice’s glory days back in series five, when Philip Taylor (aka the Geordie Elvis) came up with Y-fronted superhero Pantsman to advertise breakfast cereal. Courtney is the last man standing Eight of the last nine firings have been men, meaning there’s just a single male candidate among the final six: 29-year-old toy tycoon Courtney Wood. You know, the cocky one who looks like a Dickensian Leonardo DiCaprio. Unless Courtney goes all the way, we’re on course for the fourth all-female final in 12 series. Karren Brady steals Lord Sugar’s limelight again nother LOL-free week for the belligerent boss, whose best attempts at one-liners were “If it was up to you, Super Mario would’ve been called Fat Plumber” and “Gordon’s lost his badger and Courtney’s lost his marbles”. However, sidekick Karren Brady continued her steady move to centre-stage. She arriving at the candidates’ house with a lemon-sucking look on her face and a camel coat draped over her shoulders like some sort of business gangster, declining Courtney’s chirpy offer of a cuppa with a curt: “No, come down here so we can get on”. She then audibly snorted at Sofiane’s boardroom protestation of: “Who should get fired? Definitely not me.” Karren Brady: Iron Lady. Narrow escapes for three candidates Grainne McCoy and Alana Spencer dodged a bullet, having made negligible contributions for Nebula. On the Titans side, giggly responsibility-dodger Courtney can count himself lucky they won the task, because he was firmly in the rifle sights of Karren and Lord Sugar. Scores on the unreal virtual doors Project Manager: Sofiane – with Dillon as sub-team leader, plus Grainne and Alana Verdict: The seven industry experts had no interest in investing in Nebula’s game and they got only 78 votes out of 300 in the public poll. Project Manager: Trishna Thakrar – with Courtney as sub-team leader, plus Jessica Cunningham and Frances Bishop. Verdict: Five of the seven industry experts said that, with refinement and improvements, they might invest in Nebula’s game. It was a landslide victory of 222 to 78 in the public poll. So Nebula win only their second task out of nine and are rewarded with an horrendous-looking “immersive dining experience”, which involved diving into ball pools and being shouted at by out-of-work actors. I strongly suspect Sir Alan’s been using Groupon again. Meanwhile, it was the Greasy Spoon of Doom for Team Titans – half of whom duly got fired. Two sugars in that cup of sour grape juice, please.

However, sacking seemed harsh on arty-farty Dubliner Dillon St Paul. Sure, the silver fox fashionista’s ceaseless boasting about his creativity has been irritating and underwater puzzle game Magic Shells was lame (perhaps Dillon was still pining for last week’s performing mermaids).

Yet his team-mates were dead weights and it was hardly Dillon’s fault that he envisioned a dashing Atlantis hero and ended up with a cutesy toddler. His stirring speech about being a small-town boy battling homophobia in the big city was a last desperate roll of the dice. Still, at least he got the accolade of “With regret…” before being fired.

Dillon’s cab comment was a contender for best ever

Just a fortnight ago, we had one of the best back-of-cab exit interviews in Apprentice history, when Rebecca Jeffery cheerfully posited: “I went because I’m not a t---. That’s my downfall. I haven’t been enough of a t---”