Congress Twitter Account Hack, Smart Fence At India-Pak Border And Other Must Read Stories
Congress Twitter Account Hack, Smart Fence At India-Pak Border And Other Must Read Stories
Congress Twitter Account Hack, Smart Fence At India-Pak Border And Other Must Read Stories Twitter trouble for Congress does not seem to be ending. After party Vice President, Rahul Gandhi's twitter account was hacked and some really derogatory tweets were posted, now hackers have attacked party's official twitter handle. The hackers who have taken over the @INCIndia account have posted a series of tweets, which unsurprisingly follows the pattern and language from those posted from Rahul's account the last night. Read more  1. Patrol-Free, Multi-Layer Smart Fences To Protect Indian Borders By End Of 2017 In a bid to ensure border security, India will have a patrol-free, multi-layer smart fence along its borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh by the later part of 2017 even as 20 big global firms are undertaking a technical evaluation for the same, Director General of BSF KK Sharma said on Wednesday. Sharma said the force, after getting sanctions from the Union home ministry, is working to implement a Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System (CIBMS) where the security of these two sensitive and difficult terrain borders will shift from the regular troops patrolling system to a quick reaction team pattern where guards strike once they notice a blip of infiltration on their surveillance radars. Read more 2. Nagrota Attack Was Done ‘To Avenge Afzal Hanging,’ Reads Urdu Note Found With Dead Terrorist Recoveries from the six suicide attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, include a note written in Urdu saying that the attack was to avenge the hanging of 2001 Parliament attack accused Afzal Guru, in what points to the possible involvement of Jaish-e-Mohammad's 'Afzal Guru Squad'. The squad is suspected to have carried out the Pathankot terror attack as well, having left a similar note behind in the car used to access the airbase. Read more  3. ISRO To Launch 83 Satellites At One Go In January 2017, Including 80 For Foreign Countries Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will launch 83 satellites at one go, in January 2017, the Lok Sabha informed everyone on Wednesday.

Twitter trouble for Congress does not seem to be ending. After party Vice President, Rahul Gandhi's twitter account was hacked and some really derogatory tweets were posted, now hackers have attacked party's official twitter handle.

The hackers who have taken over the @INCIndia account have posted a series of tweets, which unsurprisingly follows the pattern and language from those posted from Rahul's account the last night. Read more

1. Patrol-Free, Multi-Layer Smart Fences To Protect Indian Borders By End Of 2017

In a bid to ensure border security, India will have a patrol-free, multi-layer smart fence along its borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh by the later part of 2017 even as 20 big global firms are undertaking a technical evaluation for the same, Director General of BSF KK Sharma said on Wednesday.

Sharma said the force, after getting sanctions from the Union home ministry, is working to implement a Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System (CIBMS) where the security of these two sensitive and difficult terrain borders will shift from the regular troops patrolling system to a quick reaction team pattern where guards strike once they notice a blip of infiltration on their surveillance radars. Read more

2. Nagrota Attack Was Done ‘To Avenge Afzal Hanging,’ Reads Urdu Note Found With Dead Terrorist

Recoveries from the six suicide attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, include a note written in Urdu saying that the attack was to avenge the hanging of 2001 Parliament attack accused Afzal Guru, in what points to the possible involvement of Jaish-e-Mohammad's 'Afzal Guru Squad'.

The squad is suspected to have carried out the Pathankot terror attack as well, having left a similar note behind in the car used to access the airbase. Read more

3. ISRO To Launch 83 Satellites At One Go In January 2017, Including 80 For Foreign Countries

Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will launch 83 satellites at one go, in January 2017, the Lok Sabha informed everyone on Wednesday.

Making it a one-of-its-kind project, 80 satellites, weighing 500 kg, in this project will belong to foreign countries - Israel, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Switzerland and the US. Read more

4. Khalistan Force Chief Skyped From Prison And Planned Jail Break With His Handler In Pakistan

Two days before the Nabha jailbreak, Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harminder Singh had been able to have a Skype conversation with his handler Harmeet, a KLF terrorist who had managed to flee to Pakistan and is currently in a safe house under ISI protection in Lahore's Dera Chall village.

Harmeet had chalked out the jail break plan. Mintoo told police he had discussed plans to revive KLF with Harmeet and asked him to arrange funds from contacts in Pakistan. Read more

5. Colombia Plane Pilot Pleaded For Landing Before Crash As Jet Ran Out Of Fuel, Reveals Recording

The pilot of the chartered plane carrying a Brazilian soccer team told air traffic controllers he had run out of fuel and desperately pleaded for permission to land before crashing into the Andes, according to a leaked recording of the final minutes of the doomed flight.

In the sometimes chaotic exchange with the air traffic tower, the pilot of the British-built jet requests permission to land because of "fuel problems" without making a formal distress call. Read more