A Fitness Expert Explains Why Aamir's Transformation For Dangal Wouldn't Have Been Possible Without Steroids
A Fitness Expert Explains Why Aamir's Transformation For Dangal Wouldn't Have Been Possible Without Steroids
A Fitness Expert Explains Why Aamir's Transformation For Dangal Wouldn't Have Been Possible Without Steroids Just a few days ago, Disney India launched a video that had intricate yet crisp details of Aamir Khan's transformation journey for his wrestling drama  The video had details of Aamir Khan's fitness regime and how he gained, and later lost weight, for his role in From being heavily potbellied to six-pack abs, Aamir Khan managed to achieve his set body targets for his role in a span of just six months. Aamir Khan, who has surprised us before with his dedication for his roles, managed to inspire us yet again. While the video claimed that this happened because of the right mix of diet and gymming, Ranveer Ahllabadia, a fitness expert, has posted a video on Facebook where he tries to explain how Aamir Khan's transformation would not have been possible without steroids. He justifies that as an actor, Aamir has a certain set of responsibilities and a public image to maintain and we, as the audience, hold no right to judge any actor who opts for steroids. To explain his point, Ranveer explains how athletes retire at the age of 35 since aging makes it difficult for them to fulfill the demands of their sport. Similarly, actors definitely have to resort to steroids for such drastic transformations. He explains further that it's not just Aamir who might have used steroids but other actors as well. Aamir's transformation video was a hit on the web since it had gained 19 million views in 3 days itself. However, use your brain and watch Ranveer's justification before relying on it. Decide for yourself.

Just a few days ago, Disney India launched a video that had intricate yet crisp details of Aamir Khan's transformation journey for his wrestling drama Dangal.

The video had details of Aamir Khan's fitness regime and how he gained, and later lost weight, for his role in Dangal. From being heavily potbellied to six-pack abs, Aamir Khan managed to achieve his set body targets for his role in a span of just six months.

UTV

Aamir Khan, who has surprised us before with his dedication for his roles, managed to inspire us yet again. While the video claimed that this happened because of the right mix of diet and gymming, Ranveer Ahllabadia, a fitness expert, has posted a video on Facebook where he tries to explain how Aamir Khan's transformation would not have been possible without steroids.

He justifies that as an actor, Aamir has a certain set of responsibilities and a public image to maintain and we, as the audience, hold no right to judge any actor who opts for steroids.

Disney India

To explain his point, Ranveer explains how athletes retire at the age of 35 since aging makes it difficult for them to fulfill the demands of their sport. Similarly, actors definitely have to resort to steroids for such drastic transformations. He explains further that it's not just Aamir who might have used steroids but other actors as well.

Aamir's transformation video was a hit on the web since it had gained 19 million views in 3 days itself. However, use your brain and watch Ranveer's justification before relying on it. Decide for yourself.