Nico Rosberg announces shock F1 retirement days after world title win: 'I am on the peak, so this feels right'
Nico Rosberg announces shock F1 retirement days after world title win:  'I am on the peak, so this feels right'
n one of the most astonishing announcements in the annals of sport, Nico Rosberg said that he was retiring from Formula One at the age of 31, just five days after winning his first world title. The Mercedes driver explained that he had “climbed a mountain” that left him “1,000 per cent sure” that he should take his bow at the pinnacle of his profession. It was a stunning revelation, when the tense battles waged with Lewis Hamilton at Mercedes this season had looked poised to continue for years to come. But ­Rosberg resolved that he had sacrificed enough, arguing that he was ­stepping away from the sport for the benefit of his wife, Vivian, and their baby daughter, Alaïa. “I’m looking forward to being a husband and a dad for a while,” he said. Some of sport’s most outstanding stars, from Bjorn Borg to Michael Jordan, Eric Cantona to Graeme Swann, have chosen to retire with dramatic suddenness, but few have ever done so within days of their greatest glory. n retrospect, perhaps more credence should have been attached to a remark made by his father, the 1982 world champion Keke Rosberg, in the paddock after last weekend’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. “Maybe he retires tomorrow,” said Rosberg Snr, before hastily adding: “There’s quite a lot of mileage left in him yet.” It was dismissed as an offhand comment by a proud parent who by then had enjoyed several celebratory drinks, but it provided an insight into the complexities of his son’s thinking. Rosberg kept the news a secret between him, Vivian and his agent Georg Nolte, before informing Toto Wolff, Mercedes’ head of motorsport, that his mind was set. Before receiving the prize he had coveted for so long at an FIA ceremony in Vienna on Friday night, he said: “For 25 years in racing, it has been my dream, my ‘one thing’ to become Formula One world champion. Through the hard work, the pain, this has been my target. And now I have made it. I am on the peak, so this feels right.” is team-mate Hamilton, who lost out on the title by a mere five points despite finishing the season with four consecutive victories, was not about to second-guess his logic. But he did offer the type of backhanded compliment that illustrated why Rosberg would not be too unhappy to walk away from this grinding psychological ­rivalry. “This is the first time he has won in 18 years of racing together,” Hamilton said. “He has a family he wants to focus on, and F1 takes so much from you. It is definitely ­going to be strange. It will be sad not to have him in the team next year.” The dynamic for Hamilton will be starkly different in 2017, now that his nearest contender for the championship has removed himself from the equation. Pascal Wehrlein, the 22-year-old German who has benefited from the Mercedes young drivers’ programme, is the favourite to take Rosberg’s seat, having raced for Manor all year. There are significant temptations for Fernando Alonso to walk away from an ­uncompetitive McLaren to the reigning triple constructors’ champions, but the Spaniard has another season of his £25 million-a-year contract to run. lus, Hamilton will want assurances that his alpha-male standing at Mercedes is not under threat. “I’ve never needed a team-mate to be able to push me,” he said, with some defiance. “The better the driver, the better it is for me when I finish ahead of them.” There was a touching tribute ­from Wolff for Rosberg, who has more than lived up to his father’s reputation with 23 wins and 30 pole positions from his 206 grands prix. “This is a brave decision by Nico and testament to the strength of his character. The ­clarity of his judgment meant that I ­accepted it right away when he told me. “It’s impossible to capture the essence of a person in a few short words, but Nico has a special combination of natural talent and fighting spirit that have brought him to where he is today. Throughout his career, people have thought he was on a golden path to success just ­because his father was a champion. In some ways, that made the challenge greater, and meant that he had to fight even harder.” osberg had appeared, in the ­aftermath of a stressful denouement in Abu Dhabi where Hamilton had tried to back him into the chasing pack, as if all his energies were sapped. He talked time and again of how the race had been an unpleasant experience, and how he had found the incessant media scrutiny of his title chances almost overwhelming.  When he was asked, light-heartedly, if he planned to keep the number six on his car for next season, he treated the question with fatalistic disdain. “Let’s see,” he sighed. Already, the notion that he could just give it up for a quieter life was crystallising in his thoughts. Only on Friday, though, did he let slip what many had deemed unthinkable. The ramifications of his move will be felt for some time, not least by his perpetual adversary Hamilton. For it is rare in any sport that curtain calls are taken with such bold and utterly unexpected finality. Hamilton 'not surprised' at team-mate's retirement ewis Hamilton insists he is not surprised that his long-running rival Nico Rosberg has brought the curtain down on his Formula One career. World champion Rosberg, 31, stunned the sporting world on Friday after he announced his decision to retire from grand prix racing just five days after clinching his maiden title. But Hamilton, who has been competing against Rosberg ever since their formative racing years in karting, has claimed he was not taken aback by his Mercedes team-mate's decision. "I'm probably one of the only people that it was not a surprise to," Hamilton, who is in Vienna alongside Rosberg at the FIA's end-of-season prize-giving ceremony, said. "This is the first time he's won a title in 18 years, hence why it was not a surprise that he decided to stop. "He's also got a family to focus on, and wants more children, and Formula One takes so much of your time. Will I miss the rivalry? Of course." Hamilton's Mercedes team will begin the process of finding a replacement for Rosberg next week. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel, a winner of four titles, and McLaren driver Fernando Alonso, a double world champion, have been mooted as potential mouth-watering contenders. Both drivers, however, are under contract with their respective teams for next season. But Hamilton, making his first public appearance since he was threatened with disciplinary action by Mercedes following his controversial tactics at the season finale in Abu Dhabi, insists he is not bothered who partners him next term. "It doesn't matter who they pick," Hamilton, 31, added. "I'll race them, and I'm here to race. Now the focus is obviously on next year and hoping for a better season. "As long we're treated fairly, it doesn't matter who is alongside you. Of course, we've got great team bosses who I'm sure will choose the right people to be representing the brand." Pascal Wehrlein, the 22-year-old German, who is a member of the Mercedes young driver programme, is also in the frame. He has deputised for both Hamilton and Rosberg in testing. "I'm interested to see who would want to be my team-mate, and respect anyone that would want to," Hamilton, the triple world champion, added. "It should be someone who has to work well in the team. There will be stronger characters and less strong characters, and some drivers who take alternative routes in order to deal with competition. "There will be good and better ones out there for sure, and I will be more than happy to help with that analysis." Strong tweeting from young Max, here   @MercedesAMGF1  @F1  @MercedesBenz  @MercedesAMG should I pick up guys?? pic.twitter.com/fF3f7oSkzL  Video: Nico Rosberg's career by numbers Re-live the world champion's time in F1 here:  So, who next in the Mercedes seat? s the dust settles on Rosberg's surprise announcement, attentions are turning to who will become Lewis Hamilton's new team-mate at Mercedes? Here are a few names:  Renault catching up on the day's news  Hi everyone! We've just come back from our departmental Christmas lunch, lovely venue but had no signal... Did we miss anything?! 😁  Plenty of reaction coming in from the F1 world artin Brundle, former F1 driver and now Sky Sports commentator, tweeted: "Didn't see that bombshell coming. Good luck to Nico with his family, to-do list, and his next adventure. Quality guy, good to know you." Tyre-maker Pirelli added: "Been a pleasure working with 2016 champ @nico_rosberg. Best wishes from us all for the next chapter of your life!" He's also the first for nearly two decades to retire in this way: Nico #Rosberg is the first reigning World Champion to end his career since Alain Prost in 1993 #F1  pic.twitter.com/NS9nomMiXh  Toto Wolff's statement in full ere's what the Mercedes chief had to say on Rosberg's decision: "This is a brave decision by Nico and testament to the strength of his character. He has chosen to leave at the pinnacle of his career, as World Champion, having achieved his childhood dream. The clarity of his judgement meant I accepted his decision straight away when he told me. "It's impossible to capture the essence of a person in a few short words. But Nico has a special combination of natural talent and fighting spirit that have brought him to where he is today. "Throughout his career, people have thought he was on a golden path to success just because his father was a World Champion; in fact, I think in some ways that made the challenge greater - and meant he had to fight even harder with the weight of expectation on his shoulders. "With Mercedes, Nico has been a relentless competitor, bouncing back from tough times in an inspirational way, and he earned the respect of the sport with his tenacity, his fighting spirit and his grace under pressure. "Since 2010, he has poured competitive energy into our team and we have grown stronger because of it. We simply say 'thank you' for the incredible contribution he has made to our success, alongside two of the all-time great drivers, Michael and Lewis."  Rosberg's decade in F1 - in numbers fter exactly 10 years in the sport, Rosberg bows out a world champion - and here are his career statistics. The world champion's first race was in Bahrain in 2006, culminating in his last Grand Prix in Abu Dhabi last Sunday. His years at Mercedes were a patient build-up to title success, finishing 7th, 7th, 9th and 6th across four seasons before two runners-up positions and this year's world title.  Wolff: Mercedes search for a replacement begins on Monday hen will Mercedes begin looking for a replacement? "Now we have to consider all options. It will be very hard to replace him. "We will start to look at this on Monday." Did you get the feeling it was possible he would finish racing? "No. It was difficult to know something was going on, it took me completely by surprise. "Equally in the same way it causes admiration."  Rosberg on Mercedes: We had some proper dark moments together ow difficult was it for him to have the conversation with the team? "Massively difficult." Wolff asked about Rosberg's legacy:  "The way he has decided to leave F1 is unheard of, something to admire. He has been part of the development of the team since the very early days. "Travelling to 20 Grands Prix every year, the energy is important." How much satisfaction does Rosberg take about being with Mercedes since the start? "It's a beautiful story because I've been here since day one. We had some proper dark moments together, and that makes us grow together. "To come through that fighting and start dominating the sport like we did, and lose two times to Lewis, and finally take it away from him made it extra special." Would he be tempted in returning to F1? Well, no "Knowing [about the decision before the race] took away some of that massive pressure. "That finished when the lights went off. It was the most intense and crazy race. " hat did his father Keke say? "Understanding. That was nice. My family wish me to do what I want to do. I'm happy with that." Would he be tempted to return? "Definitely not - finished. The end! "My next step it to be a dad and a husband for a while, a step I'm very much looking forward to."  Rosberg: "It's incredible how clear it is" "I've achieved what I have set out for. It's incredible how clear it is. "You've seen my video when I was six years old. That was my dream already in those days. "I've done it, I'm so happy and at the same time it was a very, very tough year." hat does it mean going out at the top? "I don't really think about it that way. I'll share it with as many people as I can. "The winning - it's awesome. It's indescribable. To do that, to party with my whole team..." "It's been pretty nuts. I've been celebrating in Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur. The celebrations in Germany were fun with my family and mum, and with my team yesterday in Brackley."  Rosberg: "On a whole, I'm 1000% sure I'll be happy with a new direction." osberg celebrated his world title triumph in Abu Dhabi on Sunday with his family - and now he wants to savour the moment with them. The German is talking about his decision live now on Facebook, with team boss Toto Wolff. "We kept it within a small number of people to ensure it didn't leak," he says. "I had a feeling something was going on, but it took me completely by surprise. How much will Nico miss driving? "I don't know. Of course, there are so many wonderful times. There's so many nice things and fun things about this job, so I will miss something. "On a whole, I'm 1000% sure I'll be happy with a new direction." Nico Rosberg announces shock retirement ico Rosberg has retired from Formula 1 - only days after winning the world title . The German said in a statement: “Since 25 years in racing, it has been my dream, my ‘one thing’ to become Formula One World Champion. Through the hard work, the pain, the sacrifices, this has been my target.And now I’ve made it. I have climbed my mountain, I am on the peak, so this feels right. My strongest emotion right now is deep gratitude to everybody who supported me to make that dream happen. “This season, I tell you, it was so damn tough. I pushed like crazy in every area after the disappointments of the last two years; they fuelled my motivation to levels I had never experienced before. And of course that had an impact on the ones I love, too – it was a whole family effort of sacrifice, putting everything behind our target. I cannot find enough words to thank my wife Vivian; she has been incredible. She understood that this year was the big one, our opportunity to do it, and created the space for me to get full recovery between every race, looking after our daughter each night, taking over when things got tough and putting our championship first. “When I won the race in Suzuka, from the moment when the destiny of the title was in my own hands, the big pressure started and I began to think about ending my racing career if I became World Champion. On Sunday morning in Abu Dhabi, I knew that it could be my last race and that feeling cleared my head before the start. I wanted to enjoy every part of the experience, knowing it might be the last time… and then the lights went out and I had the most intense 55 laps of my life. I took my decision on Monday evening. After reflecting for a day, the first people I told were Vivian and Georg (Nolte, from Nico’s management team), followed by Toto. “The only thing that makes this decision in any way difficult for me is because I am putting my racing family into a toughsituation. But Toto understood. He knew straight away that I was completely convinced and that reassured me. My proudest achievement in racing will always be to have won the world championship with this incredible team of people,the Silver Arrows. “Now, I’m just here to enjoy the moment. There is time tosavour the next weeks, to reflect on the season and to enjoy every experience that comes my way. After that, I will turn the next corner in my life and see what it has in store for me…”

Lewis Hamilton insists he is not surprised that his long-running rival Nico Rosberg has brought the curtain down on his Formula One career.

World champion Rosberg, 31, stunned the sporting world on Friday after he announced his decision to retire from grand prix racing just five days after clinching his maiden title.

But Hamilton, who has been competing against Rosberg ever since their formative racing years in karting, has claimed he was not taken aback by his Mercedes team-mate's decision.

"I'm probably one of the only people that it was not a surprise to," Hamilton, who is in Vienna alongside Rosberg at the FIA's end-of-season prize-giving ceremony, said.

"This is the first time he's won a title in 18 years, hence why it was not a surprise that he decided to stop.

"He's also got a family to focus on, and wants more children, and Formula One takes so much of your time. Will I miss the rivalry? Of course."

Hamilton's Mercedes team will begin the process of finding a replacement for Rosberg next week.

Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel, a winner of four titles, and McLaren driver Fernando Alonso, a double world champion, have been mooted as potential mouth-watering contenders.

Both drivers, however, are under contract with their respective teams for next season.

But Hamilton, making his first public appearance since he was threatened with disciplinary action by Mercedes following his controversial tactics at the season finale in Abu Dhabi, insists he is not bothered who partners him next term.

"It doesn't matter who they pick," Hamilton, 31, added. "I'll race them, and I'm here to race. Now the focus is obviously on next year and hoping for a better season.

"As long we're treated fairly, it doesn't matter who is alongside you. Of course, we've got great team bosses who I'm sure will choose the right people to be representing the brand."

Pascal Wehrlein, the 22-year-old German, who is a member of the Mercedes young driver programme, is also in the frame. He has deputised for both Hamilton and Rosberg in testing.

"I'm interested to see who would want to be my team-mate, and respect anyone that would want to," Hamilton, the triple world champion, added.

"It should be someone who has to work well in the team. There will be stronger characters and less strong characters, and some drivers who take alternative routes in order to deal with competition.

"There will be good and better ones out there for sure, and I will be more than happy to help with that analysis."