Can you guess these ridiculous visual puns
Ridiculous visual puns that will make you laugh or make you groan


A cross nailed to a bale of hay, a bunch of mimes waving baguettes and a green chili taped to a telephone.

These visual clues will have you scratching your head as you try to guess the pun they contain.

And while some of these terrible puns will have you groaning when you finally figure them out, some of the others are actually pretty amusing.

SCROLL DOWN TO SEE THE GROAN-INDUCING ANSWERS

HINT: A famous mythical character

HINT: A famous rap song from the early 1990s

HINT: This pun is a play on the name of a famous Batman actor

HINT: A bunch of baguette-waving rockers pose for the camera

HINT: A mythical creature

What could possible be funny about the first picture in the list? A lonely child sitting next to a row of freezers.

But putting the clues together, you might figure out the photo is a play on the early 90s smash hit single, Ice Ice Baby.

And what could a wooden cross and a round hay bale possibly have in common with the Batman movie franchise?

It turns out this clever pun is pointing to superstar actor Christian (the cross) Bale (the hay).

HINT: This pile of peas hints at an international environmental organisation

HINT: A common computer term superimposed inside a shower cubicle

HINT: This dog with its snout through a slice of bread is a play on an A List actor

HINT: Rapper Drake referred to this in a recent song that was heavily-parodied

HINT: At the end of Winter

Some of the puns in the list are not guessed so easily and take a fair amount of mental effort to figure out.

A cryptic string of numbers superimposed over a shower cubicle is taken to mean 'I pee in the shower' (an computer ID address in the shower).

And it turns out that the group of mimes waving baguettes are actually painted as the rock band KISS (making French Kiss).

HINT: The sort of thing that you might say of someone who is a little bored

HINT: Often makes the news

HINT: A simple summary of the year that has been

HINT: The sort of thing a concerned parent might think about their wayward teenager

HINT: A common criticism of those with a selective memory of how events unfolded