Quick-thinking pedestrians extinguish a lorry fire by throwing SNOWBALLS at it
Pedestrians extinguish a lorry fire by throwing SNOWBALLS at it


This is the heartwarming moment that Good Samaritan passersby threw snowballs into the back of a blazing lorry to put out the flames.

The bizarre incident was caught on camera by eyewitnesses in the city of Tyumen, in south-central Russia.

The fire is believed to have started when a gas stove, which the lorry driver was using to stop his load of chickens from freezing solid in the Siberian winter, toppled over.

The fire is believed to have started when a gas stove, which the lorry driver was using to stop his load of chickens from freezing solid in the Siberian winter, toppled over

Soon flames were shooting out of the back of the small lorry and the incident caused traffic chaos on nearby roads - preventing firefighters from arriving on the scene quickly

Soon flames were shooting out of the back of the small lorry and the incident caused traffic chaos on nearby roads - preventing firefighters from arriving on the scene quickly.

Dozens of local residents and passersby stepped in by picking up snow from the side of the road and throwing it into the back of the blazing truck.

Onlooker Petr Aksenov said he believed the gas stove had fallen over when the lorry ran over a pothole. Fortunately, the driver pulled it out of the burning truck before it exploded.

And, thanks to the efforts of the volunteer snowballers, the fire was brought under control - although all that reportedly remained of the chickens were a few charred drumsticks.

Dozens of local residents and passersby stepped in by picking up snow from the side of the road and throwing it into the back of the blazing truck

And, thanks to the efforts of the volunteer snowballers, the fire was brought under control

Videos of the fire and of the snowballers made by eyewitnesses on their smartphones quickly went viral after being uploaded on video-sharing websites

Videos of the fire and of the snowballers made by eyewitnesses on their smartphones quickly went viral after being uploaded on video-sharing websites.

Netizen ‘jeff gorh’ commented: "I cannot believe that not one of the cars stuck in traffic had a real fire extinguisher. Crazy!"