Mike Rowe to Flag-Burning Students: If You Hate America, Don't Accept Federal Aid!

Mike Rowe to Flag-Burning Students: If You Hate America, Don't Accept Federal Aid! // // "Dirty Jobs" host Mike Rowe took to Facebook to sound off on the recent examples of protesters burning the American flag and a Massachusetts college removing the flag in response. In a video and message, Rowe took aim at students who support burning the flag and express fear at the sight of Old Glory. Specifically, he noted that some college students will burn the flag and denounce the United States, but will still accept federal financial aid from the government to attend school. "With $1.3 trillion dollars of student debt currently on the books, I found myself thinking how nice it would be to hear a more persuasive argument from those who will happily take money from a country whose flag they despise," he wrote. And he argued that maybe the president of Hampshire College, Jonathan Lash, should try to educate students about the world rather than remove the flag to avoid upsetting them. As I dropped one of those giant round ice cubes into a tumbler of Whistle Pig, I couldn’t help but wonder if President Lash was unaware that billions of people around the world are routinely subjected to horrific levels of racism, misogyny, and bigotry that far exceed any injustice in modern-day America. Furthermore, I was curious to know if President Lash really believed that removing our flag is a better way to assuage the fears of his frightened students, than simply educating them about the undeniable fact that no country on the planet affords its citizens more liberty than this one? Finally, I found myself wondering as to why the President of Hampshire College would allow his students to pay for their tuition with federal dollars – federal dollars provided by the same government whose flag was no longer suitable to fly at his school. The former Discovery Channel star made headlines a few weeks ago when he pointed out parallels between Donald Trump's victory and his show's success. He wrote on Facebook: "It spoke directly and candidly to a big chunk of the country that non-fiction networks had been completely ignoring. In a very simple way, 'Dirty Jobs' said 'Hey — we can see you,' to millions of regular people who had started to feel invisible. Ultimately, that's why Dirty Jobs ran for eight seasons. And today, that's also why Donald Trump is the President of the United States."

LOOK: Jesus Statue Is All That's Left of TN House After Deadly Wildfires

Whoopi Goldberg Defends Flag-Burners: 'They Don't Hate The Country'

Benham Brothers Defend HGTV Stars Targeted for Their Christian Beliefs

"Dirty Jobs" host Mike Rowe took to Facebook to sound off on the recent examples of protesters burning the American flag and a Massachusetts college removing the flag in response.

In a video and message, Rowe took aim at students who support burning the flag and express fear at the sight of Old Glory.

Specifically, he noted that some college students will burn the flag and denounce the United States, but will still accept federal financial aid from the government to attend school.

"With $1.3 trillion dollars of student debt currently on the books, I found myself thinking how nice it would be to hear a more persuasive argument from those who will happily take money from a country whose flag they despise," he wrote.

And he argued that maybe the president of Hampshire College, Jonathan Lash, should try to educate students about the world rather than remove the flag to avoid upsetting them.

As I dropped one of those giant round ice cubes into a tumbler of Whistle Pig, I couldn’t help but wonder if President Lash was unaware that billions of people around the world are routinely subjected to horrific levels of racism, misogyny, and bigotry that far exceed any injustice in modern-day America. Furthermore, I was curious to know if President Lash really believed that removing our flag is a better way to assuage the fears of his frightened students, than simply educating them about the undeniable fact that no country on the planet affords its citizens more liberty than this one? Finally, I found myself wondering as to why the President of Hampshire College would allow his students to pay for their tuition with federal dollars – federal dollars provided by the same government whose flag was no longer suitable to fly at his school.

The former Discovery Channel star made headlines a few weeks ago when he pointed out parallels between Donald Trump's victory and his show's success.

He wrote on Facebook: "It spoke directly and candidly to a big chunk of the country that non-fiction networks had been completely ignoring. In a very simple way, 'Dirty Jobs' said 'Hey — we can see you,' to millions of regular people who had started to feel invisible. Ultimately, that's why Dirty Jobs ran for eight seasons. And today, that's also why Donald Trump is the President of the United States."

WATCH: Jesse Watters Confronts MA College Pres. Over Flag Removal

Islamist Group in U.S. Arming for Confrontation with Trump Admin

Ex-ICE Agent: I 'Routinely' Arrested Illegal Immigrants with Voter Registrations

Oregon Teachers Asked Not to Put Up Santa, Christmas Decorations in Class