'They're sold like shoes': Cambodia's building boom built on slave labour, report says



'They're sold like shoes': Cambodia's building boom built on slave labour, report says

Updated

May Na did not realise her seven-year-old son was playing behind her as she loaded bricks onto a cart.

Key points: Researchers estimate there could be tens of thousands of brick slaves across Cambodia

Most slaves live with debt to current or previous owner despite debt bondage being illegal

Australian investment in Cambodia risks supporting the slave trade, LICADHO says

When she turned to stack another row ready for the kiln, she accidentally bumped him and he fell into a moving conveyor belt.

"His severed arm fell at my feet, I was in shock," Ms Na said.

It was the last straw for the family, who had worked as modern day slaves at the Cambodian brick factory for seven years.

They ran away in the middle of the night, fleeing the $4,500 debt to the factory owner that had been incurred by a son-in-law.

There was also no compensation for Ms Na's son, Seng Pheakdey.

She said the local police told her that if she filed a complaint, she would immediately be locked up for not repaying her debt.

'They're sold like shoes'

The bleak situation inside Cambodia's brick factories has been revealed in a new report from Cambodian human rights organisation, League for the Promotion and Defence of Human Rights (LICADHO).

Researchers interviewed dozens of labourers in factories near the capital Phnom Penh, and estimated there could be tens of thousands of brick slaves across the country.

"Most of them come in with a debt either to the current owner or a previous owner — they're sold like shoes," said Naly Pilorge, deputy director of advocacy at LICADHO.

"In reality the debt never decreases, the people just keep working and working … and every time they have expenses like medical or education they take out more loans.

"In the end you have entire families and future generations that are … enslaved."

The human cost of cheap bricks

In Cambodia, bricks are cheap and the labour even cheaper — workers are usually paid a piece rate of about $0.007 a brick.

The LICADHO report included a case study of 10-year old girl, "Ping", who often loaded 15 tonnes of bricks a day, trying to help her parents pay off their $4,000 debt.

Another case study involved another boy who lost his arm in a machine and did not survive.

"Immediately after the boy died, the factory owner gave the boy's family 500,000 KHR ($170)," stated the report.

"But the factory owner's son took back 200,000 KHR ($70) saying this was to cover the cost of the ambulance."

At a factory north of Phnom Penh this week, the ABC observed children off-loading bricks from a conveyer belt, while others played near industrial machinery.

Given the widespread use of bricks in houses, offices and infrastructure projects, any Australian investment in Cambodia risks supporting the slave trade.

"Australian companies cannot get involved, cannot support this industry — I mean, this is what was abolished centuries ago," Ms Pilorge said.

Debt bondage is illegal under Cambodian and international law, but police and government officials ignore the abuses.

New start for runaway slaves

Ms Na's family now lives far away from the factory furnaces, in a sheet iron house built with help from a local non-government organisation.

There is no floor yet, so the family sleeps in hammocks strung from the foundation posts of the Khmer-style raised house.

When the ABC visited the family, seven-year-old Seng was sitting naked on a plastic stool, quietly eating a bowl of plain rice with his one good hand.

But he soon sprang to life, playing hopscotch, looking after his infant neighbour and climbing a tree.

For the first time, Seng is going to school and his favourite part is reciting the alphabet in English, which he demonstrated shyly.

His big sister said he gets teased because of his disability, but also that he has made friends.

The owner of the factory tracked the family down after they ran away and turned up at their house one day, demanding to know why they had left.

But Ms Na is not afraid of further repercussions.

"I'm not scared, my son lost his arm, why should I be afraid?" she said angrily.

Having grown up amongst relentless menial labour, Seng's dreams for the future are limited.

"Cutting grass," he eventually said, when asked what job he would like to do when he grows up.

His mother is haunted by the accident.

"I really regret my son losing his arm, I'll be so sorry for my whole life," Ms Na said.

But she also hopes that Seng will now enjoy opportunities she never had.

"Maybe, if he gets a good education and takes care of himself, maybe as a disabled person, a charity might give him a job typing on a computer," she said.

Topics: human, rights, law-crime-and-justice, community-and-society, cambodia

First posted