'Tinder for Christmas' social media service helping holiday 'orphans' make connections



'Tinder for Christmas' social media service helping holiday 'orphans' make connections

Updated

A new website and social media service dubbed "Tinder for Christmas" is encouraging people to spend Christmas day with strangers from their local area rather than alone.

There are many people who do not have anyone to help them celebrate Christmas Day.

Orphan Christmas is a non-for-profit service launched on Friday that allows people to invite others to share their table, attend someone else's Christmas event or create their own celebration.

Single mother Juliet Potter came up with the idea after spending Christmas without her children.

"My kids go to their dad's [house] half way through the day and I wanted to invite some other people that may not have anywhere to go on Christmas day to my house," she said.

"I have a bunch of food here and I'm alone so I thought I may invite as many people as I can. There are ring-ins from everywhere.

"It always very sad and difficult but that's life. I don't want anyone to be alone at Christmas time, there is nothing worse than sitting at home, bored, watching bad TV."

Ms Potter said she could not see why there could not be "like a Tinder website" that connected people and helped them to share in the festivities of Christmas.

The service allows people to screen others from their local area before they invite them to an event.

"You don't even have to an existing day organised, you could meet in a local restaurant, pub or the park. There is element of risk, but you can get hit by a bus outside your house," Ms Potter said.

"Christmas is about genuine connections, so there is no better time to meet new people with all that festive cheer about."

The website had a soft launch just before Christmas 2015 and had a few hundred people sign-up within the week.

Ms Potter hopes the platform will be a success nationally and overseas.

Service may help people meet 'social interaction' needs

Psychology professor at Curtin University Peter McEvoy said if people did not have family or close friends on hand at Christmas, their sense of loneliness and isolation could be heightened.

"Traditionally, if we knew someone didn't have family for Christmas we might invite them to join our own festivities, but only if we knew them for example neighbours or work colleagues," he said.

"Social media provides opportunities for meeting new people who are in similar circumstances to ourselves."

Professor McEvoy said social media could sometimes increase a sense of inadequacy, because often people only post highlights of their lives, giving a skewed perspective on how wonderful other people's lives are compared to our own.

But he believed platforms like Orphan Christmas may help some people to meet their need for social interaction and engagement at Christmas.

"As long as it is done safely, so that we aren't leaving ourselves vulnerable with people we know nothing about, I think apps like these could be helpful for facilitating connections," he said.

People who use the service are encouraged to make a donation to Mission Australia.

Topics: social-media, lifestyle-and-leisure, community-and-society, wa, australia

First posted