US Returns Seized Artifacts to Egyptian Government, Including Mummies
US Returns Seized Artifacts to Egypt, Including Mummies
Shares               The United States government returned a collection of stolen artifacts to Egypt on Thursday, including an ancient wooden sarcophagus, a mummy shroud and mummified hand. The items were seized by federal agents after dual investigations: "Operation Mummy’s Curse" in New York and "Operation Mummy’s Hand" in Los Angeles. They were returned to Egypt at a ceremony with U.S. and Egyptian officials at the Egyptian Embassy in Washington, D.C. "While we recognize that cultural property, art, and antiquities are assigned a dollar value in the marketplace, the cultural and symbolic worth of these Egyptian treasures far surpasses any monetary value to the people of Egypt," said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Sarah R. Saldaña in a statement. Repatriation is the final step in federal law enforcement's ongoing effort to track down the theft and trafficking of antiquities from around the world -- many of which end up in the United States. Customs law gives Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) the authority to seize stolen cultural property that has been illegally imported into the country.       In the past year, ICE returned more than 200 artifacts to India , as well as a stolen 1493 copy of Christopher Columbus ’ letter describing his discoveries in the Americas to Italy . "Each of the artifacts returned today tells a story –- a human story, our story. History comes alive when someone is able to not only read about the past, but is also able to visit the historical sites, watch and enjoy the artifacts, appreciate the images and see the actual writings of our ancestors," read a statement from Foreign Minister of Egypt Sameh Shoukry. Federal authorities aim to create good will and bolster diplomacy between the U.S. and foreign governments through these types of investigations and returns. In a statement thanking the work of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and ICE, Egyptian Ambassador to the U.S. Yasser Reda included special praise for the agents working on the case. "The tireless work of these men and women may often go unseen. But it is nothing short of vital for the preservation of ancient cultures from around the world," said Reda. Here is a look at the items of "cultural significance" from 8th century BC returned to the Egyptian government:              Shares                  US Returns Seized Artifacts to Egypt, Including Mummies   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   ANALYSIS: Finding the Loyalists in Trump's Administration   Iowa Governor Is Trump's Pick for US Ambassador to China   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level   Hundreds Protest White Nationalist at Texas A&M University   China Warns US on Taiwan Leader's Planned Transit   Innovation or Monopoly? Panel Looks at ATT-Time Warner Deal   FBI: 'No Evidence' LA Metro Terror Threat Credible   Attorneys Challenge Park Service Over Inauguration Protests   Men Left 'to Die': Gen. James Mattis' Controversial Wartime Decision   Everything You Need to Know About Gen. James Mattis   Witness to Fatal Will Smith Shooting Says Suspect Showed 'No Remorse'   Wife of Slain NFL Star Breaks Down on Witness Stand   Therapy Pig LiLou at San Francisco Airport Helps People Fly   Japan's Defense Chief Says Alliance With US Will Endure   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'

The United States government returned a collection of stolen artifacts to Egypt on Thursday, including an ancient wooden sarcophagus, a mummy shroud and mummified hand.

The items were seized by federal agents after dual investigations: "Operation Mummy’s Curse" in New York and "Operation Mummy’s Hand" in Los Angeles. They were returned to Egypt at a ceremony with U.S. and Egyptian officials at the Egyptian Embassy in Washington, D.C.

"While we recognize that cultural property, art, and antiquities are assigned a dollar value in the marketplace, the cultural and symbolic worth of these Egyptian treasures far surpasses any monetary value to the people of Egypt," said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Sarah R. Saldaña in a statement.

Repatriation is the final step in federal law enforcement's ongoing effort to track down the theft and trafficking of antiquities from around the world -- many of which end up in the United States. Customs law gives Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) the authority to seize stolen cultural property that has been illegally imported into the country.

In the past year, ICE returned more than 200 artifacts to India, as well as a stolen 1493 copy of Christopher Columbus’ letter describing his discoveries in the Americas to Italy.

"Each of the artifacts returned today tells a story –- a human story, our story. History comes alive when someone is able to not only read about the past, but is also able to visit the historical sites, watch and enjoy the artifacts, appreciate the images and see the actual writings of our ancestors," read a statement from Foreign Minister of Egypt Sameh Shoukry.

Federal authorities aim to create good will and bolster diplomacy between the U.S. and foreign governments through these types of investigations and returns.

In a statement thanking the work of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and ICE, Egyptian Ambassador to the U.S. Yasser Reda included special praise for the agents working on the case.

"The tireless work of these men and women may often go unseen. But it is nothing short of vital for the preservation of ancient cultures from around the world," said Reda.

Here is a look at the items of "cultural significance" from 8th century BC returned to the Egyptian government:

Linen Mummy Shroud

Josh Denmark/ICE

Mummified Hand

Josh Denmark/ICE

Child’s Wooden Sarcophagus

Josh Denmark/ICE

ABC News' James King contributed to this story.