Escalators in Parliament will be set to travel in reverse to get MPs to their votes faster
Escalators in Parliament will be set to travel in reverse to get MPs to their votes faster
Escalators in Parliament will be set to travel in reverse to get MPs to their votes faster, blocking off a key thoroughfare for other workers on the Parliamentary estate. Under a new scheme being trialled by Commons authorities a key pair of escalators connecting Portcullis House – where many MPs have their offices – and the Palace of Westminster will be changed from two-way to one way for five minutes at a time. The change will double the speed at which MPs can travel to the House of Commons chamber, but block off a key route through in Parliament’s congested corridors to other people in the building.   Westminster repairs could cost 'billions more than planned' Workers on the parliamentary estate will have to take the long way around to travel between the two major locations or wait for a disabled access lift – in which MPs will also have priority. The plan is an attempt to ease congestion of MPs marching to vote on laws, but may cause difficulties of its own. “For the trial period for the first 5 minutes of a division, these escalators will both travel downwards,” an official notice posted in the Palace of Westminster said. “The aim is to improve the flow of people from Portcullis House to the Palace of Westminster during divisions, facilitating faster and easier access to escalators. “To get to Portcullis House when both escalators are travelling downwards, use the alternative lift to the right although .” [emphasis from original notice] UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK   Rex     11 December 2016   Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity   PA wire     8 December 2016   Gina Miller   Reuters     5 December 2016   Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier   PA wire     5 December 2016   Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences   PA wire     5 December 2016   Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing   Getty  MPs have priority over workers at some catering establishments in Parliament, as well as reserved seating in canteens. Some elevators are also reserved for the use of MPs only. The escalator trial will take place on Monday 5 December, Tuesday 6 December, and Wednesday 7 December. More about: Parliament MPs Comments

Escalators in Parliament will be set to travel in reverse to get MPs to their votes faster, blocking off a key thoroughfare for other workers on the Parliamentary estate.

Under a new scheme being trialled by Commons authorities a key pair of escalators connecting Portcullis House – where many MPs have their offices – and the Palace of Westminster will be changed from two-way to one way for five minutes at a time.

The change will double the speed at which MPs can travel to the House of Commons chamber, but block off a key route through in Parliament’s congested corridors to other people in the building.

Workers on the parliamentary estate will have to take the long way around to travel between the two major locations or wait for a disabled access lift – in which MPs will also have priority.

The plan is an attempt to ease congestion of MPs marching to vote on laws, but may cause difficulties of its own.

“For the trial period for the first 5 minutes of a division, these escalators will both travel downwards,” an official notice posted in the Palace of Westminster said.

“The aim is to improve the flow of people from Portcullis House to the Palace of Westminster during divisions, facilitating faster and easier access to escalators.

“To get to Portcullis House when both escalators are travelling downwards, use the alternative lift to the right although members have priority.” [emphasis from original notice]

UK news in pictures







10 show all UK news in pictures

















1/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

2/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

3/10 11 December 2016 Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK Rex

4/10 11 December 2016 Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity PA wire

5/10 8 December 2016 Gina Miller Reuters

6/10 5 December 2016 Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier PA wire

7/10 5 December 2016 Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London PA wire

8/10 5 December 2016 A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London PA wire

9/10 5 December 2016 Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences PA wire

10/10 5 December 2016 Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing Getty

MPs have priority over workers at some catering establishments in Parliament, as well as reserved seating in canteens.

Some elevators are also reserved for the use of MPs only.

The escalator trial will take place on Monday 5 December, Tuesday 6 December, and Wednesday 7 December.