Formula One's Most Valuable Teams
Formula One's Most Valuable Teams
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Chris Smith       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Red Bull's two F1 teams are among the very few able to turn a profit in the world's most expensive sport. (Photo by Mark Thompson/Getty Images) The world of Formula One is in an interesting place these days. In some ways the sport remains as staid and boring as ever, while in other regards it's currently going through one of the most exciting transitions in recent memory. The points grid continues to be dominated by the same teams every year. This season Mercedes won its third straight championship, and in those three seasons only four teams have finished among the top three. Sponsorship investment in the sport is largely stagnant and few new corporate partners have entered the sport. And global interest continues to dry up - TV viewership is down to some 400 million, or a roughly 33% drop over the last eight years. And yet this season the on-track action was meaningful right down to the wire, with Nico Rosberg clinching his first drivers' championship in the season's very last race (last year Lewis Hamilton locked up a second consecutive title with three races left). Haas F1, the first team from the United States to compete in Formula One since the 1980s, excelled in its premier season, finishing eighth with 29 points. And taking the biggest headline of all was Formula One itself: The series was finally sold after years of rumors, with billionaire John Malone's Liberty Media taking over in a deal that valued the series at $8 billion. Formula One's Most Valuable Teams 2016 We ultimately estimate that franchise values are mostly flat for the time being. Though Liberty's investment may wind up boosting the sport and its teams in the long run, especially if Liberty makes efforts to target some of the struggles we highlighted in our story a year ago, the average team is now worth $446 million, up just one-third of a percent from last year. Our values are based on team financial performances in the 2015 season, so this year's valuations do not yet include Haas. Ferrari remains on top, now worth $1.33 billion. No team comes close to matching the Italian powerhouse, though the next three are in a close race for second place: Mercedes ($685 million) , McLaren ($655 million) and Red Bull ($630 million). We expect Mercedes will continue to close the gap, especially as its ongoing dominance of the sport will guarantee greater future revenues from series prize money. Most in the industry appear to be in agreement that Liberty's takeover will benefit the sport. Liberty has already talked about its intentions to improve digital operations and global promotion, and a new set of eyes may take a more critical look at the sport's vast financial inequalities among teams. Investors have apparently liked what they've seen so far, as Liberty's stock is up more than 40% since announcing its acquisition in September. Yet how the media company's investment and leadership winds up impacting the teams and their valuations largely remains to be seen; for the time being, the sport's finances are steady.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The world of Formula One is in an interesting place these days. In some ways the sport remains as staid and boring as ever, while in other regards it's currently going through one of the most exciting transitions in recent memory.

The points grid continues to be dominated by the same teams every year. This season Mercedes won its third straight championship, and in those three seasons only four teams have finished among the top three. Sponsorship investment in the sport is largely stagnant and few new corporate partners have entered the sport. And global interest continues to dry up - TV viewership is down to some 400 million, or a roughly 33% drop over the last eight years.

And yet this season the on-track action was meaningful right down to the wire, with Nico Rosberg clinching his first drivers' championship in the season's very last race (last year Lewis Hamilton locked up a second consecutive title with three races left). Haas F1, the first team from the United States to compete in Formula One since the 1980s, excelled in its premier season, finishing eighth with 29 points. And taking the biggest headline of all was Formula One itself: The series was finally sold after years of rumors, with billionaire John Malone's Liberty Media taking over in a deal that valued the series at $8 billion.

We ultimately estimate that franchise values are mostly flat for the time being. Though Liberty's investment may wind up boosting the sport and its teams in the long run, especially if Liberty makes efforts to target some of the struggles we highlighted in our story a year ago, the average team is now worth $446 million, up just one-third of a percent from last year. Our values are based on team financial performances in the 2015 season, so this year's valuations do not yet include Haas.

Ferrari remains on top, now worth $1.33 billion. No team comes close to matching the Italian powerhouse, though the next three are in a close race for second place: Mercedes ($685 million) , McLaren ($655 million) and Red Bull ($630 million). We expect Mercedes will continue to close the gap, especially as its ongoing dominance of the sport will guarantee greater future revenues from series prize money.

Most in the industry appear to be in agreement that Liberty's takeover will benefit the sport. Liberty has already talked about its intentions to improve digital operations and global promotion, and a new set of eyes may take a more critical look at the sport's vast financial inequalities among teams. Investors have apparently liked what they've seen so far, as Liberty's stock is up more than 40% since announcing its acquisition in September. Yet how the media company's investment and leadership winds up impacting the teams and their valuations largely remains to be seen; for the time being, the sport's finances are steady.