Recording Academy Calls on Trump to Support Copyright Reform in New Letter
Recording Academy Calls on Trump to Support Copyright Reform in New Letter
Recording Academy Calls on Trump to Support Copyright Reform in New Letter  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The Recording Academy has delivered a letter to President-elect , urging him to work with Congress on copyright reform. The letter, whose signees include Academy president , Chic legend Nile Rodgers and songwriter/producer , begins by congratulating Trump on his win but then shifts to calling on the mogul to support creators in their fight to repair the music economy. “The laws governing the sale and distribution of music have failed to keep pace with technology, keeping music creators from receiving fair market value for their work,” the authors write. “These outdated laws, stemming from the turn of the last century, have weakened the value of American intellectual property in foreign markets to the tune of tens of millions of dollars in unpaid royalties.” The Recording Academy’s letter urges Trump to work with Congress to conclude its review of copyright laws, which it notes enjoys bipartisan support, and act. Read the Academy’s full letter below: 7349853] In March, the Recording Industry Association of America sent a brief to Congress , calling on lawmakers to reform the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, passed in 1998 with the goal to bring copyright laws into the digital age, but now lambasted as a broken system.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Donald Trump addresses an audience at the 117th National Convention of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States at the Charlotte Convention Center on July 26, 2016 in Charlotte, N.C.

The Recording Academy has delivered a letter to President-elect Donald Trump, urging him to work with Congress on copyright reform. The letter, whose signees include Academy president Neil Portnow, Chic legend Nile Rodgers and songwriter/producer Rodney Jerkins, begins by congratulating Trump on his win but then shifts to calling on the mogul to support creators in their fight to repair the music economy.

“The laws governing the sale and distribution of music have failed to keep pace with technology, keeping music creators from receiving fair market value for their work,” the authors write. “These outdated laws, stemming from the turn of the last century, have weakened the value of American intellectual property in foreign markets to the tune of tens of millions of dollars in unpaid royalties.”

The Recording Academy’s letter urges Trump to work with Congress to conclude its review of copyright laws, which it notes enjoys bipartisan support, and act.

Read the Academy’s full letter below:

Dear President-elect Trump:

We, the undersigned members of The Recording Academy’s National Advocacy Committee, write to congratulate you and to reach out to you about the current state of the music economy for creators across America. The Recording Academy is the only organization that represents the interests of all music creators: the songwriters, performers, producers and engineers who create American recordings.

As your administration begins to chart its course, this is an important moment to ensure the continued viability of music as one of America’s greatest exports and as an integral part of the American innovation story, fueled by the entrepreneurial spirit of the men and women who make up the creative workforce. In 2015, the U.S. music industry contributed $15 billion dollars to the American economy, creating jobs in every state. [readmore:7349853]

Today, music lovers have more ways to listen to music than ever before. But the laws governing the sale and distribution of music have failed to keep pace with technology, keeping music creators from receiving fair market value for their work. These outdated laws, stemming from the turn of the last century, have weakened the value of American intellectual property in foreign markets to the tune of tens of millions of dollars in unpaid royalties.

The Recording Academy and our members across the country are working with Congress to fix the broken copyright system. We hope that the 115th Congress, with support from your administration, will conclude its review of copyright and act to support creators. Copyright reform continues to enjoy bipartisan support on Capitol Hill and among a broad group of stakeholders.

We look forward to working with your administration to support the music economy. We urge you to support reform of outdated laws and oppose any regulation that would diminish the value of these creators’ hard work and property rights.

Thank you for your consideration, and we wish you great success.

Sincerely,

Brandon Bush, Musician/Songwriter

Rodney Jerkins, GRAMMY-Winning Musician/Songwriter/Producer

Ann Mincieli, GRAMMY-Winning Engineer

Kim “KEM” Owens, Musician/Songwriter

John Poppo, Producer/Engineer/Songwriter & Board Chair of The Recording Academy

Neil Portnow, President/CEO, The Recording Academy

Nile Rodgers, GRAMMY-Winning Musician/Songwriter/Producer

Dan Warner, GRAMMY and Latin GRAMMY-Winning Musician

In March, the Recording Industry Association of America sent a brief to Congress, calling on lawmakers to reform the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, passed in 1998 with the goal to bring copyright laws into the digital age, but now lambasted as a broken system.