Anti-slavery groups, religious leaders pen open letter to PM urging action on modern slavery



Anti-slavery groups, religious leaders pen open letter to PM urging action on modern slavery

Posted

A coalition of anti-slavery groups and religious leaders have written to the Prime Minister, urging him to pass laws to stamp out slavery in Australia.

Key points: 4,300 people are currently enslaved in Australia, according to the 2016 global slavery index

Slave-like conditions are prevalent in the agriculture and restaurant sectors

Advocates are asking the Prime Minister to take action on slave-like conditions

There are estimates more than 45 million people worldwide live in some form of slavery, including over 4,000 people in Australia.

According to advocates, slave-like conditions are prevalent in parts of the agriculture and restaurant sectors.

Head of research at the Walk Free Foundation Fiona David said while slavery seemed out-of-place in Australia, it was a problem in a number of industries.

"One is the sort of forced labour exploitation that we have seen uncovered, for example in the agricultural industry, or even in the restaurant industry with the forced labour of chefs and cooks," she said.

"The other is forced labour or modern slavery in the goods and products that Australian consumers buy.

"Things like seafood that's been imported from Thailand, or agricultural products that have been important for example from Latin America, where there is still forms of modern slavery in some forms of agriculture."

A big obstacle is getting the victims of slave-like working conditions to come forward and report what is happening to authorities.

The number that do is relatively small, according to Jenny Stanger, head of the Salvation Army's Freedom Partnership to End Modern Slavery.

"What we know from the global slavery index in 2016 is about 4,300 people are currently enslaved in Australia, and only about 500 victims of slavery have been officially recognised by Government over the last 10 years."

Calls for businesses to step up

Today is the International Day for the Abolition of Slavery.

Walk Free and the Salvation Army are just two of the organisations that have joined together to write an open letter to the Prime Minister calling for action.

Other signatories include the heads of most of Australia's major religious groups.

Ms David said they wanted new laws that would mirror those passed in Britain known as the Modern Slavery Act.

"That Act has a number of very important elements, one of which requires large businesses to report on the steps they're taking to look into their supply chains to identify and respond to risk of modern slavery," she said.

"It's a really a very light-touch regulation in it's just asking companies to tell people what are you doing on this issue."

The letter also calls for the establishment of an anti-slavery commissioner.

Ms David said the suggestions were fair and would not cause unnecessary trouble for businesses.

"We think this is an important step forward for the Australian Government, both to ensure that businesses have a level playing field in Australia, but also to make sure that Australia is playing its role in the region as a leader on this issue."

Topics: government-and-politics, farm-labour, australia