Mystery as skeleton of 5ft 7in man found in Lop Nur in far western China
Remains of Chinese man missing 50 years ago found in dangerous desert 


The police said remains could belong to a man who went missing in 1960s

The remote area, known as 'no man's land', is

Police in China are trying to solve the mystery of a skeleton recently found in a dangerous desert.

The remains were discovered in October in Lop Nur, a remote area in Western China known as 'no man's land', according to People's Daily Online.

Police officers said the skeleton could belong to a man who went missing in 1960s.

Two police officers inspected the personal items found together with the skeleton in Lop Nur

Situated in western China, Lop Nur is a notoriously dangerous area known as 'no man's land'

Lop Nur lies on the border of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Qinghai Province

The skeleton, along with a few personal belongings such as a torch, letters and a newspaper clip, was first found by a group of stone collectors, according to the report.

The stone collectors were on the edge of Lop Nur, a dried-up salt lake on the border of China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Qinghai Province.

They reported the discovery to Qinghai police authority, who sent officers to Lop Nur to inspect the skeleton.

The police said the skeleton belonged to a man standing 5ft 7in tall, and the newspaper clip dated to Sept 13, 1960.

They collected the personal items and buried the skeleton on site.

The police collected the personal items, including a torch, and buried the remains on site

The skeleton was found along with a torch, letters (left) and a newspaper clip (right)

After working with police officers in Sichuan, a neighbouring province, the Qinghai police have managed to link the skeleton to a man, named Li Zhonghua, who went missing in the area in 1960s.

Li, an army veteran who had fought in the war in 1950s, had worked on a farm in Ruoqiang County of Xinjiang. His family lost contact with him after the farm closed down.

Li Zhonghua's wife, now 88, and their two daughters, currently live in Sichuan province. They were surprised when the police contacted them.

His daughter said: 'We never thought that he were dead, we guess he was just not willing to come back.'

His wife, now married to another man, still cried thinking of Li.

The family plans to go to the desert to retrieve the skeleton if the biological test proves that the remains belong to Li.

The remains is believed to belong to a man named Li Chong Hua who went missing in Xinjiang in 1960s. The above picture shows Li's wife (centre) and his two daughters

Lop Nur lies on the border of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Qinghai Province.

The area, notorious for its strong wind and dry weather, has claimed the lives of a few Chinese explorers, including Yu Chunshun and Peng Jiamu.

The Qinghai police said the area had been known as 'no man's land' since 1960s, according to QQ.com.