50 Cent Talks Kanye West Hospitalization: 'You Could See That Coming'
50 Cent Talks Kanye West Hospitalization: 'You Could See That Coming'
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' 50 Cent Talks Kanye West Hospitalization: 'You Could See That Coming'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  While Kanye West 's hospitalization and the erratic incidents that surrounded it last month came as a surprise to most, 50 Cent says he wasn't surprised. "That was interesting because I kind of felt like you could see that coming," he said Thursday while appearing on Andy Cohen's , reports. "It was like little outbursts." On the subject of West's wife Kim Kardashian's dramatic robbery in October, 50 Cent said, "I think that was a part of Kanye’s breakdown."  West was hospitalized on Nov. 21 due to exhaustion and sleep deprivation . On Wednesday he returned home . Elsewhere in the episode, 50 Cent discussed anilingus and with fellow guest, actress Leah Remini. Watch those clips below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Curtis '50 Cent' Jackson at SVA Theatre on June 22, 2016 in New York City.

While Kanye West's hospitalization and the erratic incidents that surrounded it last month came as a surprise to most, 50 Cent says he wasn't surprised.

"That was interesting because I kind of felt like you could see that coming," he said Thursday while appearing on Andy Cohen's Watch What Happens Live, People reports. "It was like little outbursts."

On the subject of West's wife Kim Kardashian's dramatic robbery in October, 50 Cent said, "I think that was a part of Kanye’s breakdown."

West was hospitalized on Nov. 21 due to exhaustion and sleep deprivation. On Wednesday he returned home.

Elsewhere in the episode, 50 Cent discussed anilingus and Empire with fellow guest, actress Leah Remini. Watch those clips below.