Man Cries After Smoking The Best Weed Of His Life
Man Cries After Smoking The Best Weed Of His Life
This YouTube video of him is on its way to viral fame, possibly also becoming a meme. It’s gotten over 100,000 views on World Star Hip Hop and seems to have been circulating on the internet since at least Thursday (Dec. 1), appearing on Reddit and Twitter too. The video’s star is a man who’s already seen in tears when the video begins. Sniffling, coughing, and lip quivering, the man proclaims: “Thank god for my reefer, man. That shit good.” He then hits said reefer. “Every time my reefer man has some good weed when I come back that afternoon...” the man says with tears streaming down his face, making it difficult to catch the last of that emotional delivery. With great strength, from his weed, he carries on: “I wanna know what mothafuckin’ deals he be getting. He needs to get more of this shit.” Again he reminds himself, and viewers, “This shit too good.” Sure, some detractors think the man just started crying from a coughing fit and decided to record himself, but what if he’s really appreciative of this reefer, man. Get yourself some weed to cry over and maybe you’ll react the same. Watch the video above and see its surprise ending.

Smoking got emotional for one man who was in literal tears over really good marijuana. Other things that might lead you to shedding a tear over marijuana: Denver allowing marijuana use in businesses and President Barack Obama saying we should treat marijuana like alcohol and cigarettes. The president is leaving soon, but it’s the thought that counts.

This YouTube video of him is on its way to viral fame, possibly also becoming a meme. It’s gotten over 100,000 views on World Star Hip Hop and seems to have been circulating on the internet since at least Thursday (Dec. 1), appearing on Reddit and Twitter too.

The video’s star is a man who’s already seen in tears when the video begins. Sniffling, coughing, and lip quivering, the man proclaims: “Thank god for my reefer, man. That shit good.” He then hits said reefer. “Every time my reefer man has some good weed when I come back that afternoon...” the man says with tears streaming down his face, making it difficult to catch the last of that emotional delivery. With great strength, from his weed, he carries on: “I wanna know what mothafuckin’ deals he be getting. He needs to get more of this shit.” Again he reminds himself, and viewers, “This shit too good.”

Sure, some detractors think the man just started crying from a coughing fit and decided to record himself, but what if he’s really appreciative of this reefer, man. Get yourself some weed to cry over and maybe you’ll react the same.

Watch the video above and see its surprise ending.