Shaq: Trump ‘Won Fair and Square,’ Time to ‘Give Him a Chance’
Shaq: Trump ‘Won Fair and Square,’ Time to ‘Give Him a Chance’ - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “The Big Aristotle” has spoken, and recount-warrior Jill Stein will not appreciate what he had to say. NBA legend Shaquille O’Neal, tired of the post-election recount talk, says that President-elect Donald Trump won “fair and square,” and stands ready to give Trump “a chance.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On Wednesday, O’Neal told  , “We have a process that’s been going on forever. And whoever wins, you just hope he does what he says he’s going to do. You know, candidate Trump promised a lot of people a lot of things. “Now that he’s president-elect, you just hope that he can make the world a better place. He won fair and square. We have to give him a chance. There’s no need talking about recounts and this and that.” O’Neal, who calls Trump a friend, has consistently argued for giving Trump a chance before judging him, and voiced a sense of “hope” about a Trump presidency living up to its campaign promises. Shaq, when asked who would fare better against him in a game of one-on-one, President-elect Trump or President Obama, responded “Neither.” So much for giving everyone a chance. Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter: @themightygwinn

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“The Big Aristotle” has spoken, and recount-warrior Jill Stein will not appreciate what he had to say.

NBA legend Shaquille O’Neal, tired of the post-election recount talk, says that President-elect Donald Trump won “fair and square,” and stands ready to give Trump “a chance.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On Wednesday, O’Neal told The Hill, “We have a process that’s been going on forever. And whoever wins, you just hope he does what he says he’s going to do. You know, candidate Trump promised a lot of people a lot of things.

“Now that he’s president-elect, you just hope that he can make the world a better place. He won fair and square. We have to give him a chance. There’s no need talking about recounts and this and that.”

O’Neal, who calls Trump a friend, has consistently argued for giving Trump a chance before judging him, and voiced a sense of “hope” about a Trump presidency living up to its campaign promises.

Shaq, when asked who would fare better against him in a game of one-on-one, President-elect Trump or President Obama, responded “Neither.”

So much for giving everyone a chance.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter: @themightygwinn