All Your ‘Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life’ Questions, Answered



Welcome back to Ask Watching, where we answer your movie and TV questions. This week, we’re dedicating this space to “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life.” You can read our reaction post here. Thanks to everyone who wrote in with questions; the Watching inbox runneth over.

Please note that this column contains abundant spoilers.

What about the letter Emily mentioned? Why there was no continuation to this plotline? — Natália (and many many others)

This question came in a lot, and it’s one that there’s no answer to. It’s not resolved within the show at all. In “Spring,” Emily says in therapy that she’ll never forgive Lorelai for “that heinous letter she sent on my birthday” — a letter Lorelai immediately says she had nothing to do with. “It was on my bed,” Emily says. “I remember the envelope and the color of the ink.” And Lorelai repeats that she had nothing to do with the letter.

Let’s mention a few things about the note that I think are significant: It was on Emily’s bed, which means there’s a limited number of people who could have written it. I cannot imagine Richard doing something like that. I’ve seen some people float the idea that it was Trix, Richard’s mother, but that seems out of character for her. That leaves Lorelai. Oh, or a maid. Emily has been consistently dismissive and often outright abusive to the people who work for her. Of course one of her many rightfully upset employees wrote that letter.

But does Emily not know what Lorelai’s handwriting looks like? She says she remembers the ink color. My mother could pick out my handwriting in a heartbeat. Even with their fraught relationship, surely Emily could do the same?

I think this is just one of those things that got lost while putting the episodes together, like Kirk’s having two different names very early on. But even though my guess is that this is just an accidental oversight, I think it speaks to some of the fundamental conflicts in their relationship, namely that each thinks the other is constantly keeping score, which each uses as an excuse for why she, herself, is keeping score. Lorelai once referred to Emily and Richard as “the two proudest people,” and they are. But so is she.

Matt Czuchry in “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life.” Netflix

I don’t understand the casual nature with which Rory’s affair was treated, especially given Lorelai’s response to Rory’s affair with Dean. Is [creator] Amy Sherman-Palladino just really #TeamLogan? Was Lorelai over trying to get her 32-year-old daughter not to make those same mistakes again? No one seemed to take any real issue with it, and that really bothered me. — Claire

I, too, was bothered! But now that I’ve watched these four episodes a few times, I’m increasingly convinced that even though 10 years have elapsed … they really haven’t. Well, the show is claiming they have, but just about everything happening in this batch of episodes is what could or should have happened in a Sherman-Palladino-–led final season. Rory’s behaviors make a lot of sense for a 22-year-old. The only reason Luke and Lorelai hadn’t gotten married yet was so their wedding could be the finale: That is in no way a story-first decision. And Lorelai’s being so blasé about Logan is because the memory of her and Rory’s “he’s not your Dean” fight is somewhat fresher in her memory.

That said, it’s still weird how chill everyone was about it, including Lane. If Rory had said, “I’ve made a lot of mistakes” — ha-ha, she will never say that — “but I love Logan; he’s my one and only, and the best way I know how to live in this world is with him by my side,” then I think the cheating stuff might have sorted itself out. Instead, it was yet another example of Rory’s self-absorption.

What do you think is the current nature of Rory and Christopher’s relationship? To me, it seemed like they’d barely seen each other over the past nine years. I don’t recall their relationship at the end of the series being so ... whatever it was in the finale. — Claire again

I think they saw each other plenty initially, but in the most recent year and change, I think Rory was skulking around and not engaging fully with her world. That scene was extra weird visually — overly bright, and the camera sort of floating around — which contributed to the overall stiltedness of the encounter.

But the real reason it’s weird isn’t that Rory and Christopher aren’t in great touch, it’s that she’s secretly pregnant and isn’t sure what to do. That’ll put a strange spin on a lot of conversations, I think.

Milo Ventimiglia, left, and Scott Patterson in the mini-series. Saeed Adyani/Netflix

The ending made me think less of Amy Sherman-Palladino because Logan is reduced to Christopher Part II, and Jess is reduced to Luke Part II.

It disappointed me to realize that Logan was brought in from the beginning to reprise Chris. If you look back at the scenes where Chris hangs out with Logan at Yale and they bond (Season 6, I think?), it seems even clearer. Even for a Jess superfan, it seems like a lazy ending, and one that Rory — despite how awful she was during this Netflix series — doesn’t deserve.

I think the problem, too, with replaying history here is that Rory isn’t a mini-Lorelai. She’s weaker and less headstrong. She’s not someone who would leave her family’s riches to go hardscrabble it with a baby. At heart, she isn’t someone who would want to raise a baby alone. It goes against everything we’ve ever known about her character. — Hilary

I don’t mind the Christopher-Logan echoes so much, but I do not think Jess is Luke II. Luke is the most reliable man other than Richard on this entire show. He has been a constant presence in Lorelai’s and Rory’s lives, one who encouraged them and supported them (including once giving Lorelai a loan), and legit fed them just about every day.

Jess is not that.

I am down for Adult Jess, and I absolutely buy that many people who are snotty teens can grow into more thoughtful adults. (Hello.) But Luke’s whole thing was his fundamental obsession with family: He turned his dad’s store into a diner, and he lived there for his entire adult life. Luke likes routine and stability. I don’t think that’s true of Jess, and I wonder how active a role he’d play in his mother’s life if not for Luke’s insistence. Jess loves Luke because Luke really was there for him, not just because Luke is his uncle.

It would have made perfect sense for Mr. Medina to be taking a personal interest in [Rory] and, seeing that she was floundering a bit, wanting to mentor her. Wouldn’t it have been dramatic if it had been Mr. Medina who saw she was speaking and slipped into the back of the classroom and sat down? — Catherine

If we get Digger at the funeral, why no Max at Chilton!? — Lawranne

Is it just me, or did Rory seem super dismissive of headmaster Charleston’s offer to be a teacher at Chilton? I feel like she did a great job with those students, and for someone who always made a huge deal about loooving school and learning, teaching seems like a no-brainer, right? To say nothing of the fact that she was GUARANTEED A JOB at a pretty damn prestigious prep school. That seems a huge step up compared to a glorified newsletter that doesn’t pay its editor/can’t spring for a used computer with Publisher installed. Plus, masters programs for teaching take 1 to 2 years, tops. Ugh, Rory. — Kristen

Mr. Medina at Chilton would have been great, and would have made complete sense, even though we really didn’t see much of him after he and Lorelai broke up. (“Keg!! Max!!” being the exception.) I also think that could have helped give some depth to Rory’s big return tour. No one she saw seemed to shake her out of her funk. Could the lady-killer Max Medina have been the one? Hm.

As to Rory’s being a teacher, I don’t know. Loving school and loving teaching are not the same thing; part of being a good teacher is explaining things in a variety of ways that appeal to a variety of learning styles. I just can’t picture Rory getting very good at that. She was incredibly rude about it, though.

Why do you think Sherman-Palladino shrugged Lane off so badly? Personally, I thought she was such an amazing character and was really disappointed that she was only portrayed as a device to Zach and to Rory. — Adriana

I missed Lane, but the truth is that Lane has not had a truly good story line since … what, Season 5? She was often relegated to second-fiddle status behind whomever Rory was dating. Remember when she was maybe going to have to move to Korea, and Rory just sat on a park bench snuggling with Dean? Boo.

Zach and Lane’s marriage is a Sherman-Palladino creation, but Lane’s pregnancy and twins came about in Season 7. Maybe she just didn’t want to deal with one of the worst story lines? And who could blame her?

Why did “Fall” get so trippy? That whole montage where the Life and Death Brigade gang basically just reenacted the scene from “Across the Universe” where they sing “With a Little Help From My Friends” (but dressed as steam punks)?! That wedding scene? — Polly

The wedding scene I could almost tolerate, even though I really wanted to see the full-on Stars Hollow wedding and Kiefer Sutherland. But the Life and Death Brigade segment was completely baffling to me.

Several of you wrote in to say that you thought it was initially a dream sequence, and I was in the same boat. They hired a guy to ride around on a unicycle to say one sentence? Did they buy fog machines? Did they buy an animatronic bird? Or was that supposed to be a real bird? Just terrible.

But! If that had been a montage of Lane and Paris and Rory dorking around, I would have been fine with it. Elated, even. The original “Gilmore Girls” was a network show, and that comes with all kinds of constraints. Watching the show spread its wings a little, trying something visually different and structurally different, doesn’t seem so bad. I wish it had been less stupid, certainly, but I don’t know that it broke anything for me really.

Alexis Bledel, left, and Lauren Graham in “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life.” Saeed Adyani/Netflix

What happened to Rory’s trust fund that she was supposed to get when she turned 25? Why is she broke at 32? — Caroline

Why was Rory “broke”? Wouldn’t she have received a big inheritance from Richard? Lorelai too? Hello??? — Jill

Why did Richard leave money in his will for Luke, but not for Lorelei or Rory? — Caroline

I assumed Rory blew through her trust fund. She was living in Brooklyn, with no full-time employment and no steady freelancing gigs? Knowing how Rory lives (Seamless every day for sure), and looking at how she dresses herself, I don’t doubt for a second that she could have blown through $500,000 in seven years.

I assume there is plenty of money from Richard for both Lorelai and Rory, but that it either goes to Emily first, or it just feels too weird to think about accessing it yet.

Lorelai asks Emily for the money not because she needs it but because neither of them knows how to initiate a meaningful emotional bond, and so a “contract” gets them both off the hook for having to say “I love you.” Those two are gonna need some more therapy.

Is Sookie the vegetable cult leader? Did they just kick Liz and T.J. out when she recognized them? I’ve long suspected there was something dark going on up at Blue Hill Farm. — Kathryn

Definitely yes.

Are we sold on the idea that Logan is Rory’s baby daddy? Or (and I know this is mostly wishful thinking) could it be Jess’s baby? I just need Rory and Jess to be together. — Mary Claire

This is a common refrain. But it’s definitely Logan. There are no twists in “Gilmore Girls” history. No jaw-droppers. Sometimes there’s a wrench in the gears — Sherry’s pregnant, Sookie’s pregnant, the Independence Inn burned down, Paris didn’t get into Harvard — but none of those are fake-outs. “Gilmore Girls” is never trying to trick us.

I also don’t think Logan would be down for Rory raising their child without him. Logan is terrible, obviously, but he wanted to marry Rory, and she said no. I’m dreading whatever “I have rights, you know!” fight would happen, because as much as Logan and Christopher have in common, there are some key differences. First, Logan isn’t 17. And second, Rory isn’t Lorelai. She isn’t a “force of nature.” She is a cashmere twin set of nature. That’s fine too, but come on.

Also, think about Mitchum. If Logan’s engagement is part of the “dynastic” plan — oy, give me a break — then a potential Gilmorzberger baby could handily mess up that plan, and also reroute some inheritance money. They think Rory is low-class. Try to imagine how they’re going to feel about Logan and Rory having a baby.

Finally, sure, a hypothetical future season could go down the “Jess and Rory raise the baby together anyway” path, I guess, though of course Milo Ventimiglia is pretty busy with “This Is Us.” I think the better option would still be for Rory to meet a suitable person as an adult.

I was initially irritated at what felt like an oversight, but am now wondering if it was a conscious decision for Rory to never be reading in the revival. In the original series she always had a book with her, but you don’t see her reading once in the new episodes. Think it is a choice to indicate that Rory is resting on her laurels too much and is not the knowledge-seeker she used to be, or is this just a continuity error? — Jessica

I don’t think this is an accidental oversight. (Others agree.) Rory is depressed. She isn’t doing any of the things she used to enjoy, including reading, but also, like, working on things and being a full person.

Lauren Graham, left, and Alexis Bledel in “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life,” on Netflix. Saeed Adyani/Netflix

If you ignore all development about Rory’s career AND love life presented to us in the revival, at what point in the timeline would Rory’s-becoming-pregnant-and-deciding-to-become-a-single-mom have worked best dramatically. At what point would it have made most sense — character- and plot-wise — and have disappointed us the least? — The SkyPeople

I am not disappointed in the idea of Rory’s becoming a single mother. She had a single mother and grew up with as much love and support as anyone ever could. She lacked for nothing. Even when they were “poor,” they weren’t — she was always one phone call away from tremendous wealth. And her child would be the same. People bring children into the world under much more trying circumstances.

This is a fine point in the timeline. I just wish something had happened to indicate that Rory has decided she’s interested in being a mother. She was not at all interested in Paris’s or Lane’s children, but even more pressingly, she was not at all interested in their experiences as parents. Maybe she’s asking Christopher about leaving because she wants Logan to raise the baby without her.