Stumped On Holiday Gift Ideas? Let Forbes' 30 Under 30 Alumni Help
Stumped On Holiday Gift Ideas? Let Forbes' 30 Under 30 Alumni Help
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Holiday shopping is hard. So we got a head start on research to help you out. In the Under 30 Holiday Gift Guide , launched today, we round up suggestions from the tastemakers and innovators Forbes has featured on 30 Under 30 lists over the past 5 years. For your techies, get suggestions straight from the likes of Ryan Hoover, founder of Product Hunt, and Susan Gregg Koger, cofounder of Modcloth. Shopping for a traveler? You’ll want to see which suitcase Casper Cofounder and COO Neil Parikh swears by and which travel accessory elevates the in-flight experience for Eataly Beverage Director Dan Amatuzzi. Or if you’re trying to impress foodies and elegant entertainers, hear from experts like Matthew Rudofker, executive chef at David Chang’s Ssam Bar and Má Pêche restaurants, and Alexa Hirschfeld, cofounder of Paperless Post. Check out the page , and stay tuned for weekly updates through December.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Holiday shopping is hard. So we got a head start on research to help you out. In the Under 30 Holiday Gift Guide, launched today, we round up suggestions from the tastemakers and innovators Forbes has featured on 30 Under 30 lists over the past 5 years.

For your techies, get suggestions straight from the likes of Ryan Hoover, founder of Product Hunt, and Susan Gregg Koger, cofounder of Modcloth.

Shopping for a traveler? You’ll want to see which suitcase Casper Cofounder and COO Neil Parikh swears by and which travel accessory elevates the in-flight experience for Eataly Beverage Director Dan Amatuzzi.

Or if you’re trying to impress foodies and elegant entertainers, hear from experts like Matthew Rudofker, executive chef at David Chang’s Ssam Bar and Má Pêche restaurants, and Alexa Hirschfeld, cofounder of Paperless Post.

Check out the page, and stay tuned for weekly updates through December.