Nissan Reveals How Connected Cars Could Turn Into A Goldmine
Nissan Reveals How Connected Cars Could Turn Into A Goldmine
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bertel Schmitt       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Nissan after-sales boss Kent O’Hara in Yokohama. (Picture: Bertel Schmitt) If you ask yourself how automakers will monetize the data collected from their cars once they are connected, all you need to do is listen to Nissan’s global after-sales chief Kent O’Hara. Connectivity “will allow us to retain more service customers at our dealership network,” O’Hara said today in Yokohama. It is a well-kept secret in the automotive business that car service is a major profit source for automakers, and even more so for car dealers. Electronically connected with the customer through the life of the car, automakers plan to grab a much bigger share of that lucrative business, leading to disruption of independent service chains, and 3 party parts suppliers. Together with Toyota and Volkswagen , Nissan is just one of a number of large automakers that announced aggressive connected car plans in recent weeks. Their strategy is similar: Give customers the Internet connectivity and apps they demand , and doing that, collect the data that drive a giant customer retention and after-sales marketing program, while making sure that no outsiders such as Google or Apple get their hands on the data. OEMs are salivating at the chance to finally stay in direct contact with the car owner throughout the car’s life-cycle. Service business generates big profits for automakers through high margin original parts sales. For most franchised dealers, service business generates the lion share of their profits. Up to now, the individual car owner is not known to the OEM in many markets, the dealer often controls that information. Customers tend to divorce themselves from franchised dealer shops once the warranty is over, and contact is lost irretrievably. When the car is sold after a few years, the used car customer usually frequents independent, or 3 party chain shops. A system that identifies the customer, and signals when and where the car needs service, can be a goldmine for OEMs and their dealers, to the detriment of 3 party providers. By 2020, a few years from now, Nissan wants to generate a quarter of its after-sales revenue via increasingly connected customers, O’Hara said today. This coming year, Nissan will embark on “a major connected car initiative.” It will start in Japan and India, and will subsequently be rolled out to most of Nissan’s markets. O’Hara wants to connect at least 30% of Nissan’s 40 million cars in use worldwide as fast as possible. To do that, Nissan will not only put connectivity into new cars, it also will, as a retrofit to existing cars, provide a box that interfaces with the car’s diagnostic system and beams the data into Nissan's cloud. With the system, Nissan and other OEMs plan to cushion the negative effects of technical progress on their bread and butter service business. Electric cars have fewer parts that can go bad. A much bigger effect on the repair business has the sinking rate of accidents. “Accidents dropped 42% in the last 10 years in Japan, and in some markets up to 63%” said O’Hara. “We expect them to decrease further in the future as more autonomous technology takes place in the vehicle.” Collision business is very lucrative, and OEMs are putting themselves out of that business by making cars increasingly safer: “Fewer accidents mean fewer repairs, and fewer replacement parts,” O’Hara said. Third party shops such as Pep Boys, Auto Zone etc. are exposed to the same trends, but cut off from the constant data streams between car, customer, and OEM, they are in danger of being disrupted by the very automakers Silicon Valley tried to disrupt, unsuccessfully so far.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Amazon's Growing Power In The U.S. Economy

If you ask yourself how automakers will monetize the data collected from their cars once they are connected, all you need to do is listen to Nissan’s global after-sales chief Kent O’Hara. Connectivity “will allow us to retain more service customers at our dealership network,” O’Hara said today in Yokohama. It is a well-kept secret in the automotive business that car service is a major profit source for automakers, and even more so for car dealers. Electronically connected with the customer through the life of the car, automakers plan to grab a much bigger share of that lucrative business, leading to disruption of independent service chains, and 3rd party parts suppliers.

Together with Toyota and Volkswagen, Nissan is just one of a number of large automakers that announced aggressive connected car plans in recent weeks. Their strategy is similar: Give customers the Internet connectivity and apps they demand, and doing that, collect the data that drive a giant customer retention and after-sales marketing program, while making sure that no outsiders such as Google or Apple get their hands on the data.

OEMs are salivating at the chance to finally stay in direct contact with the car owner throughout the car’s life-cycle. Service business generates big profits for automakers through high margin original parts sales. For most franchised dealers, service business generates the lion share of their profits.

Up to now, the individual car owner is not known to the OEM in many markets, the dealer often controls that information. Customers tend to divorce themselves from franchised dealer shops once the warranty is over, and contact is lost irretrievably. When the car is sold after a few years, the used car customer usually frequents independent, or 3rd party chain shops. A system that identifies the customer, and signals when and where the car needs service, can be a goldmine for OEMs and their dealers, to the detriment of 3rd party providers.

By 2020, a few years from now, Nissan wants to generate a quarter of its after-sales revenue via increasingly connected customers, O’Hara said today. This coming year, Nissan will embark on “a major connected car initiative.” It will start in Japan and India, and will subsequently be rolled out to most of Nissan’s markets. O’Hara wants to connect at least 30% of Nissan’s 40 million cars in use worldwide as fast as possible. To do that, Nissan will not only put connectivity into new cars, it also will, as a retrofit to existing cars, provide a box that interfaces with the car’s diagnostic system and beams the data into Nissan's cloud.

With the system, Nissan and other OEMs plan to cushion the negative effects of technical progress on their bread and butter service business. Electric cars have fewer parts that can go bad. A much bigger effect on the repair business has the sinking rate of accidents. “Accidents dropped 42% in the last 10 years in Japan, and in some markets up to 63%” said O’Hara. “We expect them to decrease further in the future as more autonomous technology takes place in the vehicle.” Collision business is very lucrative, and OEMs are putting themselves out of that business by making cars increasingly safer: “Fewer accidents mean fewer repairs, and fewer replacement parts,” O’Hara said.

Third party shops such as Pep Boys, Auto Zone etc. are exposed to the same trends, but cut off from the constant data streams between car, customer, and OEM, they are in danger of being disrupted by the very automakers Silicon Valley tried to disrupt, unsuccessfully so far.