Man who allegedly admitted to killing football star Joe McKnight released without charges
Man who allegedly admitted to killing football star Joe McKnight released without charges
The man who admits to killing Joe McKnight — a former high school and USC football star who was shot Thursday — was released without charges on Friday. Ronald Gasser, 54, admitted to shooting McKnight three times at an intersection in the New Orleans Area around 3 p.m. on Thursday, authorities said at a press conference Friday. McKnight's killing is being labeled a "road rage" incident by police. SEE ALSO: Former USC football star Joe McKnight shot to death in New Orleans Because of the circumstances — a white man shooting a black man, admitting it, and going free instead of remaining in custody pending investigation — many responded with outrage. You can kill a man over road rage, hand in your gun to police, and walk away with no charges? Sounds about white. #JoeMcknight — Faith🐘 (@simply_faith_) December 2, 2016 Situations like what happened to #JoeMcKnight are exactly why organizations like BLM exist & why players kneel during the national anthem. — Matthew A. Cherry (@MatthewACherry) December 2, 2016 Countless ppl in the USA are more upset about @Kaepernick7 kneeling than the #WalterScott & #JoeMcKnight situations. Think about that. 😒 — Patrick Quaife (@pquaife) December 2, 2016 #NAACP protests outside Jefferson Parish Sheriff Office in Harvey for #JoeMcKnight Jr. shooting, most have left scene since @theadvocateno  pic.twitter.com/nHC1Ut8eou — Matthew Hinton (@MattHintonPhoto) December 2, 2016 Jefferson Parish Sheriff Newell Normand stressed the fact that the investigation would not be swayed by outside sentiment, particularly from social media. Authorities are exercising caution and not rushing to judgment, Normand said on Friday. "We also know that Mr. Gasser ... admitted to shooting Joe McKnight, Jr.," Normand said in the press conference. He also rejected the idea that race had played a factor. “Everybody wants to make this about race,” Normand told reporters , according to the . “This isn’t about race.” #BREAKING : Ronald Gasser, suspect in Joe McKnight's killing, released from custody https://t.co/Ah1KfQ409a  pic.twitter.com/Vw1eV0jIJu — NOLA.com (@NOLAnews) December 2, 2016 Sheriff Newell Normand: 'a rush to judgment does not equal anything.' Rushing has 'dire consequences.' — Ramon Antonio Vargas (@RVargasAdvocate) December 2, 2016 Jeff. Parish Sheriff's Office just sent out a news release that Ronald Gasser's prior arrest was for an alleged road rage incident ... (1/2) — Ramon Antonio Vargas (@RVargasAdvocate) December 3, 2016 When asked why Gasser was released without charges, Normand mentioned state statutes that allowed the suspect's release while an investigation is underway. Louisiana has a " Stand Your Ground " law, much like Florida's, which states that a person is justified in using deadly force if he "reasonably believes [it] is necessary to prevent the entry or to compel the intruder to leave the premises or motor vehicle." In a protest and press conference in New Orleans on Friday, NAACP leaders called for justice . “We are here demanding answers. This has to stop," said Gaylor Spiller, president of the West Jefferson Parish branch of the NAACP. "We think a black man was lynched yesterday," added Morris Reed, president of the New Orleans branch of the NAACP. McKnight was a high school football legend who entered powerhouse USC in 2007 hyped as "the next Reggie Bush" — a reference to the Trojans running back who won the Heisman Trophy just two years prior. According to the New Orleans heriffs said McKnight was not armed at the time he was killed. He was 28 years old when he was shot to death Thursday.

The man who admits to killing Joe McKnight — a former high school and USC football star who was shot Thursday — was released without charges on Friday.

Ronald Gasser, 54, admitted to shooting McKnight three times at an intersection in the New Orleans Area around 3 p.m. on Thursday, authorities said at a press conference Friday.

McKnight's killing is being labeled a "road rage" incident by police.

SEE ALSO: Former USC football star Joe McKnight shot to death in New Orleans

Because of the circumstances — a white man shooting a black man, admitting it, and going free instead of remaining in custody pending investigation — many responded with outrage.

You can kill a man over road rage, hand in your gun to police, and walk away with no charges? Sounds about white. #JoeMcknight — Faith🐘 (@simply_faith_) December 2, 2016

Situations like what happened to #JoeMcKnight are exactly why organizations like BLM exist & why players kneel during the national anthem. — Matthew A. Cherry (@MatthewACherry) December 2, 2016

Countless ppl in the USA are more upset about @Kaepernick7 kneeling than the #WalterScott & #JoeMcKnight situations. Think about that. 😒 — Patrick Quaife (@pquaife) December 2, 2016

#NAACP protests outside Jefferson Parish Sheriff Office in Harvey for #JoeMcKnight Jr. shooting, most have left scene since @theadvocateno pic.twitter.com/nHC1Ut8eou — Matthew Hinton (@MattHintonPhoto) December 2, 2016

Jefferson Parish Sheriff Newell Normand stressed the fact that the investigation would not be swayed by outside sentiment, particularly from social media. Authorities are exercising caution and not rushing to judgment, Normand said on Friday.

"We also know that Mr. Gasser ... admitted to shooting Joe McKnight, Jr.," Normand said in the press conference. He also rejected the idea that race had played a factor. “Everybody wants to make this about race,” Normand told reporters, according to the New York Times. “This isn’t about race.”

Sheriff Newell Normand: 'a rush to judgment does not equal anything.' Rushing has 'dire consequences.' — Ramon Antonio Vargas (@RVargasAdvocate) December 2, 2016

Jeff. Parish Sheriff's Office just sent out a news release that Ronald Gasser's prior arrest was for an alleged road rage incident ... (1/2) — Ramon Antonio Vargas (@RVargasAdvocate) December 3, 2016

When asked why Gasser was released without charges, Normand mentioned state statutes that allowed the suspect's release while an investigation is underway. Louisiana has a "Stand Your Ground" law, much like Florida's, which states that a person is justified in using deadly force if he "reasonably believes [it] is necessary to prevent the entry or to compel the intruder to leave the premises or motor vehicle."

In a protest and press conference in New Orleans on Friday, NAACP leaders called for justice. “We are here demanding answers. This has to stop," said Gaylor Spiller, president of the West Jefferson Parish branch of the NAACP.

"We think a black man was lynched yesterday," added Morris Reed, president of the New Orleans branch of the NAACP.

McKnight was a high school football legend who entered powerhouse USC in 2007 hyped as "the next Reggie Bush" — a reference to the Trojans running back who won the Heisman Trophy just two years prior. According to the New Orleans Times-Picayune, sheriffs said McKnight was not armed at the time he was killed.

He was 28 years old when he was shot to death Thursday.

Additional reporting by Mashable's Kate Sommers-Dawes and Sam Laird.