Castro's Death Celebrations Collide With Art Basel Miami
Castro's Death Celebrations Collide With Art Basel Miami
Shares                "Fidel, may you rot in hell." That was the stark message on a mural outside a popular thrift store in Miami's Wynwood neighborhood that had dozens waiting in line to sign their name. The trendy neighborhood is known for graffiti art outside most businesses. This year, the death of Cuban dictator Fidel Castro came just days before nearly 100,000 art buyers, gallery owners and celebrities flooded South Florida for Art Basel Miami Beach. Art galleries in Wynwood host many of the events. An artist called the Give Good Works store and asked to paint something Saturday to commemorate Castro's death. Murals along the store's front wall are a common outlet for artistic expression. Artists did several during the election, including one that said 'no walls' referring to President-elect Donald Trump's promise to build a wall along the Mexican border. Regina Macdonald, part owner of the store, said about 100 people signed the wall. Many were passionate. It drew no complaints, she said. "We try not to synthesize it too much. I thought, 'Really, do we want to say that?' ... And people went crazy. There were lines down the street." One message read, "The tyrant is dead," and another said: "Hope he chokes. Trump you're next." The mural was removed Wednesday and replaced with a drawing of a woman with flowing, psychedelic pink hair holding a cup of coffee that read " Cuba Libre." Just a few miles away on Wednesday, hundreds of Cuban exiles in Miami rallied for freedom and democracy on the communist island. Macdonald said the decision to replace the mural was not because of criticism but simply because they like to change things up. "Wynwood is very much a forum for art. People come here to express themselves ... when there's something hot politically going on, we put it on the wall," she said. Shares                  Castro's Death Celebrations Collide With Art Basel Miami   Reba McEntire, Kenny Rogers to Perform at Benefit for Tenn. Wildfire Victims   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   'Spider-Man: Homecoming': First Teaser Clip Features New Suit   Lauren Graham on How She Got Together With Boyfriend Peter Krause   Lady Gaga Writes About Her 'Daily' Struggle With PTSD   Tom Ford: Beyonce Is Perfect Even When They Drop Their Kids at School   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Wears Necklace With Their Initials   Johnny Depp Is Forbes' Most Overpaid Actor, Again   Ben Mendelsohn on Playing 'Rogue One' Villain   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   Search for Victims in Oakland Warehouse Fire Concludes; Death Toll Stands at 36   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   Study: 'Obamacare' Repeal-Only Would Make 30M Uninsured   4 More Infants in NYC Reported to Have Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

"Fidel, may you rot in hell." That was the stark message on a mural outside a popular thrift store in Miami's Wynwood neighborhood that had dozens waiting in line to sign their name.

The trendy neighborhood is known for graffiti art outside most businesses. This year, the death of Cuban dictator Fidel Castro came just days before nearly 100,000 art buyers, gallery owners and celebrities flooded South Florida for Art Basel Miami Beach. Art galleries in Wynwood host many of the events.

An artist called the Give Good Works store and asked to paint something Saturday to commemorate Castro's death. Murals along the store's front wall are a common outlet for artistic expression. Artists did several during the election, including one that said 'no walls' referring to President-elect Donald Trump's promise to build a wall along the Mexican border.

Regina Macdonald, part owner of the store, said about 100 people signed the wall. Many were passionate. It drew no complaints, she said.

"We try not to synthesize it too much. I thought, 'Really, do we want to say that?' ... And people went crazy. There were lines down the street."

One message read, "The tyrant is dead," and another said: "Hope he chokes. Trump you're next."

The mural was removed Wednesday and replaced with a drawing of a woman with flowing, psychedelic pink hair holding a cup of coffee that read "Cuba Libre." Just a few miles away on Wednesday, hundreds of Cuban exiles in Miami rallied for freedom and democracy on the communist island.

Macdonald said the decision to replace the mural was not because of criticism but simply because they like to change things up.

"Wynwood is very much a forum for art. People come here to express themselves ... when there's something hot politically going on, we put it on the wall," she said.