Student Emails Her Teacher While Hopped Up On Drugs After Surgery
Student Emails Her Teacher While Hopped Up On Drugs After Surgery
Well, someone gets an A+ for hilarity. An email that a college student wrote to her teacher while under the influence of hydrocodone, an opioid pain medication that can cause confusion, after dental surgery is going viral. Abby Jo Hamele, a 19-year-old student at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, posted an email she doesn’t remember writing to Twitter on Nov. 21. The email has received over 48,000 likes and 17,000 retweets since. I EMAILED MY PHILOSOPHY TA WHILE I WAS HIGH ON HYDROCODON I'M DEAD pic.twitter.com/ncJ8XX4zoe The message, which is addressed to Kevin Patton, a teaching assistant in Hamele’s Philosophy 101 class, is a plea for an extension on an assignment. It reads: Kevin- I believe that i relmebmer you said we, as us students, would be able to send you our papers for classss for you to look at over before we turn them in to cColin if we got them to you by the 22nd of Novermber. I unfortmately got my wisdom teeth sliced outr and have not not been reacting very well to the surgeryy nor the medicatioon i were given/ so I do not thimk that I will be able to habe my paper finisherd by Tuesday at all. Is tehere any way I would be able to send you my paper at any later date??? I wnt to do very good on this paper you know becayse i like to do well in my classes. please sir I workled very hard and thouught that I would be abel to finish it on timme but my doctor said I will most likelly not be normal again until at least Thanksginvg turkey. If you say no then that is okay but i would be sad and i would reallyyyy lik e it if you said yes. Thank you Kevin, my dude. Abby Jo Hamele (pronounced hah-mil-lee) (if you were wondering) P.S. I will answer youpr questions in class forever so theere are not any more awkard silence. and i will buy you expo markers that work (even thougjh our tuition should pay for markers that work) love you bye Patton told BuzzFeed News that he found the message hysterical . He responded to Hamele, who posted his response to Twitter as well: @jabbyo3 this was the response I got if anyone was wondering pic.twitter.com/wMJC2CSsID We suppose all we have left to say about this is: Thank you, Abby, our dude. ALSO ON HUFFPOST This Lawyer Posts Hilarious Free Legal Advice To Facebook       Share this slide:       MORE:

Kevin-

I believe that i relmebmer you said we, as us students, would be able to send you our papers for classss for you to look at over before we turn them in to cColin if we got them to you by the 22nd of Novermber.

I unfortmately got my wisdom teeth sliced outr and have not not been reacting very well to the surgeryy nor the medicatioon i were given/ so I do not thimk that I will be able to habe my paper finisherd by Tuesday at all.

Is tehere any way I would be able to send you my paper at any later date??? I wnt to do very good on this paper you know becayse i like to do well in my classes.

please sir I workled very hard and thouught that I would be abel to finish it on timme but my doctor said I will most likelly not be normal again until at least Thanksginvg turkey. If you say no then that is okay but i would be sad and i would reallyyyy lik e it if you said yes. Thank you Kevin, my dude.

Abby Jo Hamele (pronounced hah-mil-lee) (if you were wondering)

P.S. I will answer youpr questions in class forever so theere are not any more awkard silence. and i will buy you expo markers that work (even thougjh our tuition should pay for markers that work)

love you bye