Jet Airways 'Bribes' Passengers To Offload, So That They Could Accommodate An 'Influential Wedding Party'
Jet Airways 'Bribes' Passengers To Offload, To Accommodate An 'Influential Wedding Party'
Jet Airways 'Bribes' Passengers To Offload, So That They Could Accommodate An 'Influential Wedding Party' "All animals are equal but some are more equal than others" famous line from George Orwell's classic work, Animal Farm. This seems to be the case for budget airlines, Jet Airway, which allegedly asked five passengers of its Mumbai-Bhopal flight to make space for a wealthy Gujarati family. According to reports some 80 members of the family was to travel on the flight 9W7083, but 17 of them were late for check-in which resulted in the cancellation of their bookings giving other people preference. The 'influential family' then created  ruckus onboard, threatening to abandon the flight all together if others were not accommodated. “Initially, the airline crew denied boarding to the 17 travellers who came in late. But then the rest of the group on board refused to fly without them,” Aditi Shrivastava, a passenger onboard was quoted saying. The flight crew reportedly asked other passengers to give up their seats, so that the the 17 latecomers could travel, but no one was willing. The situation got ugly after members of wedding group blocked the aircraft doors to prevent it from shutting down. Following this, the crew offered a compensation of Rs 10,000 for passengers volunteering to give up their seat, and promised them to be accommodated on the next flight. Only five passengers came forward to accept the compensation, which resulted in the situation dragging on. A video uploaded online by a passenger on the flight, shows a woman representing the marriage group requesting other passengers that the 17 be allowed to board.

"All animals are equal but some are more equal than others" famous line from George Orwell's classic work, Animal Farm.

This seems to be the case for budget airlines, Jet Airway, which allegedly asked five passengers of its Mumbai-Bhopal flight to make space for a wealthy Gujarati family.

Screen grab

According to reports some 80 members of the family was to travel on the flight 9W7083, but 17 of them were late for check-in which resulted in the cancellation of their bookings giving other people preference.

The 'influential family' then created ruckus onboard, threatening to abandon the flight all together if others were not accommodated.

“Initially, the airline crew denied boarding to the 17 travellers who came in late. But then the rest of the group on board refused to fly without them,” Aditi Shrivastava, a passenger onboard was quoted saying.

The flight crew reportedly asked other passengers to give up their seats, so that the the 17 latecomers could travel, but no one was willing.

Screen grab

The situation got ugly after members of wedding group blocked the aircraft doors to prevent it from shutting down.

Following this, the crew offered a compensation of Rs 10,000 for passengers volunteering to give up their seat, and promised them to be accommodated on the next flight. Only five passengers came forward to accept the compensation, which resulted in the situation dragging on.

A video uploaded online by a passenger on the flight, shows a woman representing the marriage group requesting other passengers that the 17 be allowed to board.

Screen Grab

"You are only bothered about your bloody marriage, not about the 63 of us who need to reach Bhopal," a frustrated passenger is heard screaming. The woman in question seems unaffected by the outburst and only says that a lot of passengers need to be accommodated on the flight.

The intimidation ensured that the flight was delayed by three hours and five passengers were offloaded voluntarily. At this point, the pilot announced that the Bhopal airport was scheduled to close at 9 am for renovation.

The airlines blamed the issue on a technical glitch which caused over booking.

Jet Airways Statement on flight 9W 7083 (S2 4621) Mumbai - Bhopal of December 02, 2016. pic.twitter.com/G3RnH6nSAu — Jet Airways (@jetairways) December 2, 2016

The statement added that the offloaded guests — part of a larger group, refused to accept the airline's offer of compensation / re-accommodation on alternative flights, and together with other members of the group, proceeded to hold up the flight, leading to an unruly situation, necessitating the intervention of law enforcement officials and delaying the flight by 90 minutes.