Cricketers Are Dropping Like Dominoes When It Comes To Marriage & It's All Starting On Twitter!
Cricketers Are Dropping Like Dominoes When It Comes To Marriage & It's All Starting On Twitter!
Cricketers Are Dropping Like Dominoes When It Comes To Marriage & It's All Starting On Twitter! Marriages are the ultimate celebration for most people. And when you're a celebrity and about to get hitched, it's only inevitable that you become the talk of town. What with the explosive nature of social media, it doesn't take time for people to congratulate you or poke fun at you on your big day. Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma shaking a leg at Yuvraj-Hazel reception is just what you need to see When it comes to cricketers, Indians don't shy away from hiding their feelings. It's often been the case with high-profile Indian cricketers when they're about to get hitched that their teammates go into hyperdrive in taking said groom's case on Twitter . This trend started last year when Harbhajan Singh tied the knot with actress Geeta Basra. It was Harbhajan Singh's good friend and longtime national and state teammate Yuvraj Singh who had 'advised' him to bowl straight after marriage and not ball the 'doosra'. Can't bowl the dusra now buddy Stick to one line ??! Wish @harbhajan_singh and @Geeta_Basra a happy life together love u both ???????????????? To this, a happily married Bhajji replied by saying that Yuvraj too should come in line and not attempt any fancy strokes... @YUVSTRONG12 u should also come in a line and play straight now. No cut pull ???????????? Yuvraj, who was keen to marry actress girlfriend Hazel Keech, obviously obliged... ?? yes mr @harbhajan_singh from Diwali onwards I'm going to play straight see u Tom night ???????? While all this was happening, it was Virender Sehwag who came up with the final word... @harbhajan_singh n @YUVSTRONG12 if u guys want to know how to play straight drive in married life feel free to call me .. That was when Sehwag's swag on Twitter was beginning to grow. Now, hours before getting married in the Punjabi gurudwara setting, Yuvraj posted a 'sehra' selfie when he got inside his Mercedes on his way to the venue. And Harbhajan couldn't stop himself from trolling the left-hander. Congratulations BROTHER??? what's With your expressions in the pic.. r u trying to tell us something ??looking great singh sahb @YUVSTRONG12  pic.twitter.com/I8MLnqRSdm

Marriages are the ultimate celebration for most people. And when you're a celebrity and about to get hitched, it's only inevitable that you become the talk of town. What with the explosive nature of social media, it doesn't take time for people to congratulate you or poke fun at you on your big day.

Twitter

When it comes to cricketers, Indians don't shy away from hiding their feelings. It's often been the case with high-profile Indian cricketers when they're about to get hitched that their teammates go into hyperdrive in taking said groom's case on Twitter.

Twitter

This trend started last year when Harbhajan Singh tied the knot with actress Geeta Basra. It was Harbhajan Singh's good friend and longtime national and state teammate Yuvraj Singh who had 'advised' him to bowl straight after marriage and not ball the 'doosra'.

Can't bowl the dusra now buddy Stick to one line ??! Wish @harbhajan_singh and @Geeta_Basra a happy life together love u both ???????????????? — yuvraj singh (@YUVSTRONG12) October 28, 2015

To this, a happily married Bhajji replied by saying that Yuvraj too should come in line and not attempt any fancy strokes...

@YUVSTRONG12 u should also come in a line and play straight now. No cut pull ???????????? — Harbhajan Turbanator (@harbhajan_singh) October 29, 2015

Yuvraj, who was keen to marry actress girlfriend Hazel Keech, obviously obliged...

?? yes mr @harbhajan_singh from Diwali onwards I'm going to play straight see u Tom night ???????? — yuvraj singh (@YUVSTRONG12) October 30, 2015

While all this was happening, it was Virender Sehwag who came up with the final word...

@harbhajan_singh n @YUVSTRONG12 if u guys want to know how to play straight drive in married life feel free to call me .. — Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) October 30, 2015

That was when Sehwag's swag on Twitter was beginning to grow.

Now, hours before getting married in the Punjabi gurudwara setting, Yuvraj posted a 'sehra' selfie when he got inside his Mercedes on his way to the venue. And Harbhajan couldn't stop himself from trolling the left-hander.

Congratulations BROTHER??? what's With your expressions in the pic.. r u trying to tell us something ??looking great singh sahb @YUVSTRONG12 pic.twitter.com/I8MLnqRSdm — Harbhajan Turbanator (@harbhajan_singh) November 30, 2016

As things stand, 13 months since the Harbhajan-Geeta wedding, Rohit Sharma got married to girlfriend Ritika; Yuvraj has tied the knot with Hazel; Ishant Sharma is about to marry basketball player Pratima Singh before 2016 ends, one Indian cricketer is yet to take the plunge. That's Zaheer Khan.

In fact, it was last year that Harbhajan wanted to play cupid and hoped for Zaheer Khan to tie the knot.

Next in the line to get married is @ImZaheer

RT guys if you want Zak khan to get married this year or like if next year???????? lets go guys — Harbhajan Turbanator (@harbhajan_singh) November 15, 2015

Turns out he's not the only one rooting for Zaheer. Rohit Sharma, at Yuvraj's Goa wedding ceremonym urged his former Mumbai and India teammate to get married.

Brotherman down! Best wishes to my older brother @YUVSTRONG12 ! All eyes on @ImZaheer now ?? pic.twitter.com/kYYyqSSCMc — Rohit Sharma (@ImRo45) December 2, 2016

With high-profile cricketers setting a trend of dropping like dominoes, you never know where it would end up. Will Zaheer actually follow suit? Time and possibly Twitter will tell!