The 24 Best Fiction Books Of 2016
The 24 Best Fiction Books Of 2016
by Colson Whitehead Doubleday colsonwhitehead.com Winner of a 2016 National Book Award, is the story of Cora, a slave who escapes via the Underground Railroad, which is rendered as an actual railroad system. Through its brilliant visions of a past both ours and not quite ours, depicts America’s horrifying history with a devastating clarity. Find it here. Follow Colson Whitehead on Twitter. : Read about BuzzFeed’s interview with Colson Whitehead here .  by Han Kang Hogarth Park Jaehong In by South Korean writer Han Kang (translated into English by Deborah Smith), a housewife decides to become a vegetarian. This seemingly harmless decision has terrible, wide-ranging consequences, throwing her entire family into disarray. With its phantasmagorical images and haunting, alienated characters, is a book that compels even as it dares you to look away. Find it here.  by Helen Oyeyemi Riverhead Books Piotr Cieplak The stories in are linked thematically by keys of all kinds, but are otherwise only bounded by the limits of Oyeyemi’s playful, searching imagination — which is to say, not at all. Whether you’re reading about puppetry schools or a disillusioned fan seeking an apology from a pop star, these stories have you diving in and surfacing somewhere else — delightfully, unexpectedly — altogether. Find it here. : Read an excerpt from  here .  by Manuel Gonzales Riverhead Books Jessica Gonzales , the first novel from acclaimed short fiction writer Manuel Gonzales, chronicles the secret history of the Regional Office, an organization composed of super-powered female assassins and the mysterious powers that be who manage them. Combining joyous comic book verve with masterful literary craft and a keen sense of character, is a rare and special beast indeed: fun that tastes good and is good for you. Find it here. Follow Manuel Gonzales on Twitter. Read an excerpt from  here and an essay by Manuel Gonzales here .  by Brit Bennett Riverhead Books Emma Trim Bennett’s stellar debut, , brings us into the world of a black church community in California, where three teenagers — Nadia, Aubrey, and Luke — navigate love and loss and consequences, all while being observed and commented on by a chorus of church mothers. Graceful, wise, and affecting, is a beautiful exploration of community, and how its ties can both constrain and comfort. Find it here. Follow Brit Bennett on Twitter. Read an excerpt from  here .  by Adam Haslett Little, Brown and Company Beowulf Sheehan is the story of a family and its legacy of mental illness, first in the father, then in the eldest son. While Haslett is unflinching when it comes to the devastating toll that depression and anxiety can take on a person and their family, this coexists — and is inextricable from — his portrait of an unforgettable, frustrating, loving family. Find it here.  by Yaa Gyasi Knopf Michael Lionstar , Yaa Gyasi’s debut novel, opens in18th-century Ghana with two half-sisters set upon different paths. While one of the sisters stays in Africa, the other is sold into slavery in America, and each following chapter delves into the lives of their descendants, showing clearly the effects of racism and slavery on the history of the world through its trauma to individual lives. is ambitious, panoramic, and continually riveting. Find it here.  by Karan Mahajan Viking karan-mahajan.com Three young boys visit a New Delhi marketplace when a bomb goes off, killing two of them and devastating their families and the surviving boy. With great empathy and intelligence, explores the ramifications of a terrorist attack on both the victims and the terrorists themselves. Find it here.  Follow Karan Mahajan on Twitter.  by Dexter Palmer Pantheon Twitter: @dexterauthor Rebecca, the main character of , has the funny feeling that something is fundamentally wrong with her world, where self-driving cars fill the roads, her husband is obsessed with building a time machine, and the president just doesn’t seem right. Of course, it’s a world much like ours, which is part of the brilliance of , a novel that, by holding up a science-fictional mirror to our reality, reflects back something all the more truthful for its bizarreness. Find it here. Follow Dexter Palmer on Twitter.  by Garth Greenwell Farrar, Straus and Giroux Max Freeman In , an American teacher in Bulgaria encounters a captivating hustler named Mitko in a public bathroom, setting into motion an ambiguously transactional relationship marked by both tenderness and brutality, connection and isolation. speaks of desire and the lives of those who desire with exquisite specificity and power, and will haunt you long after you turn the final page. Find it here. Follow Garth Greenwell on Twitter. Read an essay by Garth Greenwell here .  by Stephanie Danler Knopf Nick Vorderman When 22-year-old Tess moves to New York City and takes a job in a renowned restaurant, she falls headlong into the intense, intoxicating world of food. shows clearly how the glamour of delicious cuisine and the attractive, knowing people populating the kitchens coexists with the toil and pain involved. With its lush prose and its keen insights into what it takes to make your way in the restaurant world (and the world at large), casts a strong spell. Find it here. Follow Stephanie Danler on Twitter.  by Jade Chang Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Emma McIntyre When the patriarch of the wealthy Wang family loses all of their money in the financial crisis, the Wangs are forced to pack up and take a drama-filled road trip from Bel-Air to upstate New York. Rollicking, engaging, and full of heart and irresistible characters, is a riches-to-rags story that is totally fresh. Find it here. Follow Jade Chang on Twitter.  by Michael Chabon Harper David Livingston / Getty Images Poised tantalizingly between memoir and fiction, by Michael Chabon begins when a writer named Mike Chabon visits his grandfather, who on his deathbed has decided to tell all about his life and their family’s past. And what a tell-all it is. A story as much about the art of storytelling as it is about family, history, and the 20th century, is a dazzling achievement. Find it here. Read a profile of Michael Chabon here and an excerpt from  here.  by Kaitlyn Greenidge Algonquin Books Syreeta McFadden Greenidge’s debut novel, , follows the Freemans, a black family invited by a New England research institute to live with and teach sign language to a chimpanzee (the eponymous Charlie). But the institute is not all that it appears to be, and both the pressures of the situation as well as the dark secrets of the institute’s past bring the Freeman family to a crisis. engagingly explores family, race, and language with great insight and fearlessness. Find it here. Follow Kaitlyn Greenidge on Twitter. Read an essay by Kaitlyn Greenidge here .  by Alexander Chee Houghton Mifflin Harcourt M. Sharkey Chee’s glittering, glamorous second novel spins the tale of celebrated opera star Lilliet Berne, the toast of Paris, from her early days as an orphan from Minnesota to her rise as a singer. Lilliet is mesmerizing — a fierce, complex survivor who can seemingly thrive anywhere — as are the other vivid characters, who scheme and plot and love and hate against a masterfully rendered historical backdrop of 19th century France. Find it here. Follow Alexander Chee on Twitter. Read Alexander Chee’s work for BuzzFeed here .  by Robin Wasserman Harper robinwasserman.com After a popular boy in their small town commits suicide, good girl Hannah and troublemaker Lacey become close friends. As they act out, struggling against the limitations of small-town life, harrowing secrets surface and test the bonds of their obsessive friendship. An exhilarating page-turner to the very end, reads like a grungy punk girl anthem, intense and terrifying and wonderfully alive. Find it here. Follow Robin Wasserman on Twitter. Read an essay by Robin Wasserman here .  by Nicole Dennis-Benn Liveright Jason Berger follows three women who live near a Jamaican tourist resort: Delores, an embittered mother, her older daughter Margot, an ambitious employee of the tourist resort, and her younger daughter Thandi, a teenager trying to live up to both Delores and Margot’s expectations. Heartbreaking and gorgeous, delves into the true costs of tourism, of Caribbean vacations and sunny beaches, with its fine-grained portraits of the people who stay when the tourists are gone. Find it here. Follow Nicole Dennis-Benn on Twitter.  by Claire-Louise Bennett Riverhead Books Conor Horgan provides one of the great pleasures of fiction: really getting into someone else’s mind and finding it both mundane and weirder than imaginable. Narrated by a woman living alone in a small, bucolic town, concerns itself with the stuff of daily life—gardening, oven knobs, dinner parties, neighbors — yet renders these things strange, new, and bewitching through the fascinating perspective of the narrator. Find it here.  by Tony Tulathimutte William Morrow Lydia White follows four friends in mid-aughts San Francisco, who are flailing through post-college life despite an abundance of brains and privilege. Tulathimutte’s prose is hilarious, brilliantly acute, and merciless — San Francisco and millennial bad behavior provide plenty of satirical targets — but also evinces hard-won compassion for his characters, too spiky and self-aware to be likable, too uncomfortably close to ourselves to be dislikable. Find it here.  Follow Tony Tulathimutte on Twitter.  by Helen Phillips Henry Holt and Co. Andy Vernon-Jones , a collection of short stories, presents us with a surreal, disturbing assemblage of worlds, each complete and somehow totally convincing despite their strangeness. Though the characters of struggle to connect with one another, all the while dealing with problems such as knowing the exact date of their deaths, or what happens when friends disapprove of their high-tech sex robot, is a delight — there is joy in its darkness, and pleasure in its exuberant imagination. Find it here. Follow Helen Phillips on Twitter.  Read an essay by Helen Phillips here .  by John Wray Farrar, Straus and Giroux Ali Smith Traversing time and space from 1903 Moravia to a hoarder’s apartment in New York City (with many stops in between), is a 20th-century epic of science, history, and inheritance. When a Czech pickle merchant discovers a theory of time, his descendants become obsessed and dedicate their lives to either studying it or attempting to escape what has become their family legacy. Ambitious and audacious, succeeds on both a grand and small scale, as it delves into the saga of one strange, captivating family. Find it here. Follow John Wray on Twitter. Read an essay by John Wray here.  by Jacqueline Woodson Amistad Marty Umans An anthropologist returns to Brooklyn after her father’s death and muses upon her girlhood in 1970s Brooklyn, when she and her three best friends came of age in often tumultuous circumstances. Lyrical and moving, is truthful in its aliveness to both beauty and pain. Find it here. Follow Jacqueline Woodson on Twitter. Read a poem by Jacqueline Woodson here .  by Marcy Dermansky Liveright Whitney Larson is a sly and marvelously surprising take on the road trip novel. Leah, sad and dissatisfied in New York with a clingy husband and a dull job, learns that her former mentor has died, leaving her a red sports car. Haunted by memories of her past, Leah travels to San Francisco on a journey both physical and mental, as she finally faces up to what her life has become. Funny, unpredictable, and moving, is an irresistible book for anyone who’s ever felt stuck. Find it here. Follow Marcy Dermansky on Twitter. Read a profile of Marcy Dermansky here .  by Zadie Smith Penguin Press Chris Jackson / Getty Images In , two young biracial girls bond over a love of dance and their shared racial identity. Over the years, their fates diverge and one becomes a dancer, while the other becomes an assistant to a pop mega-celebrity. Both frustrating and fascinating — and all the while gloriously human — Smith’s characters take us through an entrancing exploration of subjects such as race, class, friendship, talent, and much more, giving us the world in all its great complexity and contradiction. Find it here. 25.  19 Of The Best YA Books Of 2016  buzzfeed.com   19 Of The Best YA Books Of 2016    21 Romantic Books You Can Absolutely Lose Yourself...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Winner of a 2016 National Book Award, The Underground Railroad is the story of Cora, a slave who escapes via the Underground Railroad, which is rendered as an actual railroad system. Through its brilliant visions of a past both ours and not quite ours, The Underground Railroad depicts America’s horrifying history with a devastating clarity.

Find it here.

Follow Colson Whitehead on Twitter.

Bonus: Read about BuzzFeed’s interview with Colson Whitehead here.