Why Charles Barkley ripping the Warriors for playing 'girl basketball' is so misinformed
Why Charles Barkley ripping the Warriors for playing 'girl basketball' is so misinformed
Make of this one what you will, folks. Former NBA star and current TNT analyst Charles Barkley says he's no fan of the Golden State Warriors. Not because of their recent successes , though, and not because they added yet another superstar by signing Kevin Durant this summer. Barkley dislikes the Warriors because they play "girl basketball." SEE ALSO: How Steph Curry became the NBA's most Vine-worthy star Barkley delivered his latest criticism of Golden State, a team he's insisted on obtusely criticizing for a few years now, during TNT's Thursday night studio show. "Maybe I'm old school, but I'm never going to like that little girly basketball where you have to outscore people," Barkley said. "I'm biased against girl basketball." Charles Barkley explains why he doesn't like the way the Golden State Warriors play basketball pic.twitter.com/DaTud8Lwje — Rob Perez (@World_Wide_Wob) December 2, 2016 Um — a few things here, Charles. The casual sexism of criticizing any NBA team as "girly" isn't a very good look at all in 2016. How's a young female NBA fan supposed to feel watching a basketball legend say that? But there are much bigger problems in the world today, so we'll leave the #outrage there for now. Meanwhile, "outscoring people" is . Accumulating more points than the opposition is literally how you win almost every sporting competition there is. OK, so what Barkley was saying was that the Warriors rely too much on offense and not enough on defense. Even so, Golden State ranks eighth in the NBA in defensive efficiency, a stat that tracks how many points a team gives up per 100 possessions. That's pretty good, especially alongside a league-best offensive efficiency. So, yeah — Barkley is running his mouth despite being woefully misinformed. But then again, hey — Barkley's part of TNT's crew that produces the most entertaining studio show in sports. And it's just sports — not like anyone is paying Barkley to apply his bloviation to more serious topics. Oh. Wait. In July, TNT green-lit a show called , in which Barkley will lead a series of discussions about race in America beginning early next year. We'll see how that one goes.

Make of this one what you will, folks.

Former NBA star and current TNT analyst Charles Barkley says he's no fan of the Golden State Warriors. Not because of their recent successes, though, and not because they added yet another superstar by signing Kevin Durant this summer.

Barkley dislikes the Warriors because they play "girl basketball."

Barkley delivered his latest criticism of Golden State, a team he's insisted on obtusely criticizing for a few years now, during TNT's Thursday night studio show.

"Maybe I'm old school, but I'm never going to like that little girly basketball where you have to outscore people," Barkley said. "I'm biased against girl basketball."

Charles Barkley explains why he doesn't like the way the Golden State Warriors play basketball pic.twitter.com/DaTud8Lwje — Rob Perez (@World_Wide_Wob) December 2, 2016

Um — a few things here, Charles.

The casual sexism of criticizing any NBA team as "girly" isn't a very good look at all in 2016. How's a young female NBA fan supposed to feel watching a basketball legend say that? But there are much bigger problems in the world today, so we'll leave the #outrage there for now. Meanwhile, "outscoring people" is literally how you win basketball games. Accumulating more points than the opposition is literally how you win almost every sporting competition there is. OK, so what Barkley was actually saying was that the Warriors rely too much on offense and not enough on defense. Even so, Golden State ranks eighth in the NBA in defensive efficiency, a stat that tracks how many points a team gives up per 100 possessions. That's pretty good, especially alongside a league-best offensive efficiency.

So, yeah — Barkley is running his mouth despite being woefully misinformed. But then again, hey — Barkley's part of TNT's Inside the NBA crew that produces the most entertaining studio show in sports.

And it's just sports — not like anyone is paying Barkley to apply his bloviation to more serious topics.

Oh. Wait.

In July, TNT green-lit a show called The Race Card, in which Barkley will lead a series of discussions about race in America beginning early next year.

We'll see how that one goes.