Man flies his first date 2,300 kilometers across the globe
Man flies his first date 2,300 kilometers across the globe


A man flew a woman he'd met online across the world for a first date - before asking her to move in a week later.

Zsolt Levai, 32, from Hungary, said he instantly 'clicked' with 21-year-old Sariah Lizama after they met through Miss Travel, a dating site that pairs 'attractive girls' with 'generous guys' in need of travel companions.

So he wasted no time in booking the Mexican beauty a one-way ticket to meet him in Cyprus where he is currently living.

Zsolt and Sariah getting to know each other in Cyprus in September. They met through Miss Travel, which pairs 'attractive girls' with 'generous guys' in need of travel companions

Despite never having met him before, Sariah, an English tutor, said she 'followed her gut' and even celebrated her 21st birthday with him.

'I was not expecting anything serious in the beginning,' Sariah admitted. 'But as cheesy as it sounds it really felt right, I haven't been happier. He has treated me like a princess since day one.'

'I thought he was such a gentleman and very sweet, made me feel at ease.'

The pair first locked eyes at the airport arrivals gate in August, and say they have been inseparable ever since - despite neither of them looking for a relationship beforehand.

Love at first sight: Sariah, an English tutor, said she 'followed her gut' and even celebrated her 21st birthday with Zsolt. The pair have been living and travelling together ever since

Sariah said: 'I was not expecting anything serious in the beginning. But as cheesy as it sounds it really felt right, I haven't been happier. He has treated me like a princess since day one'

The pair first locked eyes at the airport arrivals gate in August, and say they have been inseparable ever since - despite neither of them looking for a relationship beforehand

'Globetrotter' Zsolt, an HR manager for a shipping company, had signed up to Miss Travel after a friend recommended it and says it wasn't long before he spotted Sariah as he scoured the site for other 'travel enthusiasts'.

'As a young girl living abroad I found it an interesting way to travel,' said Sariah, who stumbled across the website by chance.

But her new boyfriend is not the first man she's met through the site: 'I had used MT before for some trips and they were great experiences,' she admitted.

'I was not looking for love, rather just a way to be able to share the same passion I have for travelling with someone and sharing memorable moments.

Sariah, who stumbled across Miss Travel by chance, said: 'As a young girl living abroad I found it an interesting way to travel'

Sariah, pictured in Cyprus, admits her new boyfriend is not the first man she's met through the site: 'I had used MT before for some trips and they were great experiences,' she said

Zsolt said of their relationship: 'In this current era we are in, it should not be looked down upon finding someone online in a site where both parties are looking for the same experiences'

'I felt very comfortable once we met, and we spoke as if we had known each other for long. I followed my gut in accepting his invitation and it was not wrong!'

Zsolt agrees that while he wasn't looking for love either, he instantly 'clicked' with Sariah as the pair messaged online - and meeting her in person was 'far better than any expectations'.

'We messaged a lot before we met, every day basis,' he explained. '[We] got to know about each other as much as we could share online.

Zsolt, who forked out €150 (£127) to fly Sariah from Milan to Cyprus, added: 'My first impression was that she was gorgeous. I was nervous and my heart was racing.'

'Globetrotter' Zsolt, an HR manager for a shipping company, had signed up to Miss Travel after a friend recommended it and says it wasn't long before he spotted Sariah's profile

Zsolt agrees that while he wasn't looking for love, he instantly 'clicked' with Sariah as the pair messaged online - and meeting her in person was 'far better than any expectations'

Zsolt, who forked out €150 (£127) to fly Sariah (pictured) from Milan to Cyprus, added: 'My first impression was that she was gorgeous. I was nervous and my heart was racing.'

He claims it only took the pair 'about a week' to realise that it was something serious, when he surprised Sariah with dinner and cake to celebrate her birthday.

'We felt that we had already known each other for so long, and knew that this could end up a great love story.' he said. 'I made the right choice.

And while he knows some people may frown upon sites like Miss Travel, Zsolt, who is currently touring his home country with his new girlfriend before the pair move onto Mexico, insists it's a great way to meet people.