The Fashion Awards 2016: Gigi Hadid gets emotional as she's crowned model of the year
The Fashion Awards 2016: Gigi Hadid gets emotional as she's crowned model of the year
he most significant night in the British fashion industry calendar took place at the Royal Albert Hall tonight with the biggest names in the business in attendance to round off the year in suitably fabulous style. Over 4,000 guests- David Beckham, Naomi Campbell, Kate Moss and Gigi Hadid among them- gathered to toast the rebranded British Fashion Awards - now known simply as ' . The ceremony has now finished, with those who have shaped fashion this year awarded for their contributions. David Beckham presented American designer for carving out a globally-known business dedicated to the All-American look- from jeans and tees to Oscar gowns, Lauren's done it all. The most closely-watched contest of the night saw supermodel sister against supermodel sister as were both nominated in the International Model of the Year category . Older sister Gigi emerged victorious, wearing a dramatic Atelier Versace look to collect her award. Never mind Bella, there's always next year. Edit...  Delete  favourite design house picked up the British Brand of the Year accolade which creative director dedicated to the 'amazing team' which helps her to put together spellbindingly beautiful catwalk collections which translate then into clothes which women want to wear. and even among the stars who graced the red carpet. rounded off a stellar centenary year with a Special Recognition Award. status as fashion's wunderkind was confirmed once more as he scooped up two prizes at The Fashion Awards. The first for International Urban Luxury Brand with the design collective Vetements   which he founded and which has become a must-wear for fashion editors and cutting-edge celebrities alike. Next up, Gvasalia was awarded International Ready-to-Wear designer for his reinvention of the storied Parisian fashion house Balenciaga. Young Brits , and also scooped up awards. ead through all the action as it happened in our live feed below...  Tears and laughter backstage for the 2016 Fashion Award winners here was a jovial mood backstage at the 2016 Fashion Awards. Marilyn Manson, the night’s unexpected guest who had presented his friend Demna Gvasalia with the International Urban Luxury Brand award, was busily editing the pictures that had been taken of him. “If I don’t get laid tonight, I’m going to tag you and blame you personally,” he joked, as he poured over pictures of him posing on the red carpet earlier. ut for all the hysteria, there was emotion too from the winners of these newly revamped Fashion Awards. “Before the show my dad told me, ‘If you don’t win, you’re still a good designer,’” Simone Rocha admitted. “But I wanted it. I wanted to win.” Rocha celebrated by knocking back a few espresso martinis with friend and fellow winner Molly Goddard, who was so shell-shocked by winning her first ever award she wasn’t even sure what she was going to do with the statuette. “Now I just need a fireplace.” Fellow first-time winner, menswear designer of the year Craig Green was equally blown away. “Oh my god, I probably should have prepared a speech, I probably shouldn’t have worn dirty Converse and a T-shirt,” he faux scolded himself. ut it wasn’t just the young British designer who were excited by their acclaim. Legendary photographer Bruce Weber told The Telegraph’s Emily Cronin that he was going to keep his Fashion Award in his oceanfront cabana in Florida - and that it would continue to inspire him. “I’m still a student. I have to work for it everyday just like somebody starting out,” he said. A poignant reminder that humility will always be in style.  David Beckham presents Ralph Lauren with the Outstanding Achievement award he biggest cheer of the night has gone to David Beckham, who took the stage in a velvet jacket to present Ralph Lauren with an Outstanding Achievement award. "I've long been a fan of this man and his extraordinary work," Beckham said of Lauren, before admitting he'd not met him until a chance encounter at Soho Farmhouse earlier this year. o matter though because Beckham knew Lauren's work. The first American to open a store on Bond Street and, in Beckham's words, the man who made Wimbledon the most stylish sporting event, Lauren has built a globally renowned business around the idea of All-American style. ut even though we knew it was coming Ralph Lauren's lifetime achievement award comes at the end of a particularly momentous year for the 77 year-old designer. Lauren played a fascinating role in the American presidential election, creating a series of suits for self-confessed 'pantsuit aficionado' Hillary Clinton to wear during key moments of her campaign, from the blue look she wore for her opening rally in June 2015 to the purple-edged outfit which nodded to the Suffragettes as she accepted defeat in November. ‘I didn’t know the significance of that colour,’ he admitted to The Telegraph's Lisa Armstrong in an interview to mark his Outstanding Achievement award ,  ‘but Hillary’s people did. I just knew it looked beautiful on her.’ auren's name is recognised the world over; his Polo t-shirts and jeans have become iconic staples for casual dressing but he also knows how to create impact for formal occassions; he has dressed Michelle Obama and many First Ladies before her as well as Hollywood actresses including Gwyneth Paltrow, Cate Blanchett and Sienna Miller for the most demandingly dressed-up events on the world stage.  The Telegraph's Fashion Director @misslisaarmstrong with the legend Ralph Lauren at The Fashion Awards 👫 . . . #telegraphfashion #telegraph #fashionawards2016 #bringonthebolly #ralphlauren A photo posted by Telegraph Fashion & Beauty (@telegraphfashion) on ‘I don’t know where it came from,’ he says of the instinct for design which came when he began creating ties as a young man, ‘but I knew what I was doing was good because I wanted to wear it.’  Demna Gvasalia wins International Ready To Wear Designer for his work at Balenciaga t’s clearly Demna Gvasalia’s night as the designer picks up his second award, for his work as Creative Director of Balenciaga. It’s a notable accolade: Gvasalia has been at the helm of the storied Parisian house for barely a year writes 's Victoria Moss. Whilst eyebrows may have been raised when his appointment was made to this venerated position: the move has worked. Balenciaga was the king of futuristic, modern fashion, and Gvasalia is exactly that today. He might not have brought tracksuits to the house of Balenciaga - but striped Thai market bags, fluoro leggings and oversized puffa jackets (worn off the shoulder - the christening of perhaps one of the more victim-y and daft street style ‘trends’) have found new fans here. Yet, he has also taken the house codes on and adeptly interpreted them: tweed suits with padded front pockets and prominent shoulders have proved to be a surefire success, and re-established that classic Balenciaga silhouette as relevant once again. All in all, given the extreme heat rising off Gvasalia right now - he is simply the fashion super star .  Gucci's Alessandro Michele wins Accessories Designer of the Year 'Fashion is a beautiful dream and I promise I'll keep dreaming forever,' Alessandro Michele said on stage picking up his award for Accessories Designer of the Year. ast year he won Designer of the Year, this year Michele has been recognised for the immense service he’s paid to the accessories world, writes Kate Finnigan. Actually, remind us. Where was the world of accessories before Alessandro Michele? Wearing one minimalist earring, we think. Well, that’s changed. With a single pair of slip on, fur-lined loafers he reinvented shoes. With his blingy grandmother’s attic treasures he coaxed us back into enjoying jewellery - even brooches. With his embroidered colourful bags he has injected joy into arm candy again. And by putting all his models in glasses he made spectacles spectacular. Who’d have thunk. More is more is his mantra and for that accessories do indeed owe him this award. Let’s hope it's multi-coloured and bling-tastic.  Gigi Hadid scoops her sister Bella to win International Model of the Year n a room full of supermodels (Karlie Kloss at 6 foot 6 and a half in heels towering over them all), the International Model of the Year award was always going to be high octane. So it wasn’t a surprise that Gigi Hadid got weepy on stage collecting her award. Social media also erupted - no doubt in part because of the 26 million followers Gigi has on Instagram alone. here’s no doubt her social media presence has lent Gigi an appearance of intimacy with her fans which earlier generations of supermodels could never hope to achieve. But to dismiss Gigi’s power as purely a result of the ‘likes’ she can acquire on social media would be unfair. This year alone, she’s showed serious prowess on the catwalk. Walking down the Bottega Veneta catwalk hand in hand with Lauren Hutton was one of the biggest moments of Milan Fashion Week. And Gigi’s see-now-buy-now collection for Tommy Hilfiger, which the model debuted at New York Fashion Week, a massive commercial success. igi is a model who has managed to throw off the It girl tag and associations of nepotism (her mum Yolanda van den Herik is a former model, who is herself said to be worth $54 million and is best known as a star of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills; her dad a wealthy property developer) to forge what’s turning out to be a seriously reputable career in modelling. The only person who might not be so thrilled? Her sister Bella, who was also nominated in the International Model of the Year award but, perhaps forewarned she hadn’t won, was a no show tonight. Still, something tells us the Hadid sisters will dominate these awards - and many more - for a few more years to come.  Jaden and Willow Smith get an unexpected award for New Fashion Icons pleated skirt may not sound like the most wave-making of garments. But when the pleated skirt in question appears on Jaden Smith, son of Will and Jada Pinkett, in a Louis Vuitton campaign, it’s a tsunami. "He represents a generation that has assimilated the codes of true freedom, one that is free of manifestos and questions about gender,” Vuitton creative director Nicolas Ghesquière said. “Wearing a skirt comes as naturally to him as it would to a woman who, long ago, granted herself permission to wear a man’s trench or a tuxedo…. He’s found an instinctive balance that makes his extraordinary attitude a new norm. That really inspired me in the creative process for this collection.” 2016 was full of gender-bending, groundbreaking fashion moments for Jaden, now 18 years old, and sister Willow, 16, who jointly received the New Fashion Icons trophy at tonight’s Fashion Awards. While Jaden made headlines with his skirted campaign and star turn in The Get Down, Willow joined the ranks of Chanel ambassadors, sitting in the front row and posing for backstage photos with Karl Lagerfeld. “It’s not every day that a 15 year-old black girl with dreads gets elected to be the Chanel ambassador,” she told The Telegraph at Chanel’s autumn 2016 couture show. Overachieving teens, meet your new leaders. Marilyn Manson (yes, really) presents Demna Gvasalia with International Urban Luxury Brand hat an ‘urban’ luxury brand award even exists is testament to the extraordinary effect the Georgian Demna Gvasalia has had on the fashion industry . Having cut his teeth working at Maison Martin Margiela and Louis Vuitton (under both Marc Jacobs and Nicolas Ghesquiere), Vetements was launched as a ‘design collective’ helmed by Gvasalia but two years ago writes 's Victoria Moss. he label was a provocateur from the off - staging its second season show in a sex shop, its third at an out of town Parisian chinese restaurant, it’s fourth, in the American church in Paris (where vaulted stylist Lotta Volkova - and friend of the brand - opened the show in a mini dress approximation of a monk’s habit). The clothes were arch, oversized, streetwear appropriated pieces - the theory being that they were simply making elevated, fashion versions of clothes that they and their friends were already wearing. Cult (and sell out) items swiftly followed: £880 jeans hand stitched together from off cuts; bright yellow DHL t-shirts; ditsy printed midi length tea dresses;Titanic sweatshirts - emblazoned with Leo and Kate in embrace - and worn, with a post-post modern irony by Celine Dion amongst others. At its last show (staged during Haute Couture week in Paris, and in the Galeries Lafayette shopping centre - very meta) Vetements created an epic montage of collaborations - re-anointing Juicy Couture velour tracksuits, Dr Martens boots and Manolo Blahnik kitten heels as It items. In the midst of this counter cultural take over, Gvasalia was christened by Balenciaga as its new creative director. The move cemented him as an arch arbiter of the current state of fashion, and propelling what  may have passed as a flash in the trend pan into a full blown movement: the reverberations of which are felt clearly by this award.  Gucci's Marco Bizzari is International Business Leader t’s rare that the men in suits get praise for their contribution to fashion but Marco Bizarri scored a blinder when he hired Alessandro Michele, an unknown member of the creative team, for this very high profile role writes 's Kate Finnigan. Part of a business leader’s job is to spot the talent and boy, did he do that. He saw that Michele was the right man to inject the va-va-voom that Gucci had been lacking. He encouraged him to be as creative as he liked. The result has been a huge revival in the 95-year-old Italian label’s fortunes, not because he’s played clever with money or marketing, or played it safe. Far from it. Bizzari allowed creative talent to live large and thereby taught everyone a lesson in how to do fashion.  Alexander McQueen wins the British Brand Award lexander McQueen wins the award for British brand, cementing creative director Sarah Burton's seemingly unstoppable ability to create divinely beautiful collections which translate into clothes which women want to buy and wear. his year alone, Burton has whipped up breathtakingly lovely shows inspired by ideas as varied as dreams and sleepwalking and rugged Hebridean adventures. The second-to-last look of her Autumn/Winter show, which took place in London as Burton was to give birth imminently to her third daughter, was a delicate silk eiderdown coat which had attendees enthralled by its beguiling mix of prettiness and comfort. longside her ever more artful collections, Burton and her team adeptly re-spin them for modern life. While the Duchess of Cambridge might not be your 'average' woman, she has continued to commission McQueen to create looks which are royal-engagement-worthy and fly the flag for British fashion. Some Telegraph team highlights: the red and white floral patterned dress (taken from the etchings seen on old caravans and canal boats) which the duchess wore on the first day of her tour to Canada, the Paisley-printed, peplum shift which united British and Indian tradition worn in Mumbai and the unusually playfully 'Obsessions' dress debuted at the Wimbledon final. Bravo Sarah Burton and team McQueen!  Yes, people working in fashion *do* eat… or those wondering whether people working in fashion eat more than sushi, the answer is a resounding yes. Whilst the awards are happening, those at tables are eating fillets of beef with salt-baked celeriac and English wasabi - and even a side of chips. OK, polenta chips but still…. Meanwhile, for dessert there’s a Christmas vibe going on with mince pies on the menu. As for the drinks? By the end of the night the British Fashion Council estimate the guests will have drunk 700 bottles of Evian and 700 more of Badoit sparkling water. Rock and roll. Don't worry, there were Ciroc Vodka cocktails too.  Brtish Vogue rounds off its 100th year with a Special Recognition Award n a night all about celebrating British design personalities, perhaps it was only appropriate that the 4,000 guests paid special recognition for the magazine that has spent 100 years writing about them. The Editor-in-Chief of UK Vogue Alexandra Shulman was presented with an award to celebrate the title’s centenary by Mario Testino - the photographer who has become a household name and an A-list favourite thanks to the images he’s shot for the magazine. t rounds off a stellar year for Shulman, who marked Vogue’s centenary by doing what Vogue does best: pulling in exclusives that keep the industry talking. That certainly happened when Shulman managed to persuade the Duchess of Cambridge to make her first appearance on the cover of a magazine - and hiding the coup from the BBC cameras who had spent 10 months in Vogue’s offices trailing the team for a documentary about their centenary. “That girl next door is just shtick,” Vogue’s Fashion Director Lucinda Chambers told The Telegraph of styling the astute Duchess in Burberry and a Beyond Retro vintage hat. omeone else who isn’t exactly as you’d expect is Vogue’s editor herself. Whilst some thought Shulman came across quite austere on the BBC’s documentary, her own diary of Vogue’s 100th year presents a very different view - and one that most people within the industry recognise. Talking of her fear of flying and always having the wrong underwear, Shulman told The Telegraph earlier this year that her biggest responsibility - and the thing that really kept her awake at night - was making her magazine excellent month in month out. Perhaps tonight’s industry recognition might help ease her concerns.  'Sing your own song loud with your own lyrics and baby I want you to be on fire' says Bruce Weber as he collects his award "Three men have changed how I see America: Mark Twain, Walt Disney and Bruce" says Bailey.  So who is Weber, the man honoured with tonight's award in memory of the legendary fashion stylist Isabella Blow, who nurtured the likes of John Galliano and Alexander McQueen? emember those steamy Calvin Klein and Abercrombie & Fitch campaigns from the 1990s? Of course you do - the tanned, muscular men in the photos were always going to make for indelible images, writes 's Emily Cronin. They’re only part of the reason that Bruce Weber, the photographer behind those campaigns and countless other memorable photographs, wins the Fashion Creator award this evening, a prize five decades in the making. "Bruce’s endurance is testament to his pure talent, his undeniable creativity and his singular warmth and generosity," says the British Fashion Council's chairman, Dame Natalie Massenet. "His expansive body of work in photography and film is iconic, and he himself is rightly an icon of the creative fashion community. He is one of the foremost photographers and creative talents of our age who has helped shape the fashion industry we know today and I have a great deal of admiration for him.”  @gigihadid in @versace_official, Chicago, 2016. A photo posted by Bruce Weber (@bruce_weber) on  Simone Rocha wins British Womenswear Designer he scooped the New Establishment award two years ago and now Simone Rocha has scooped the big one. Congratulations, Ms Rocha! There’s really no stopping this designer, who recently turned 30 and celebrated the first birthday of her daughter, Valentine. Rocha’s hybrid aesthetic of Japanese avant-garde and Victoriana, using experimental fabrics and off-centre silhouettes, is unique in womenswear and gave her brand an immediately indentifiable look when she launched 8 years ago. She continues to conjure up one stellar collection after another and a growing collection of accessories and jewellery. With the most prestigious international stockists, from Dover Street Market to Colette, she opened her first London shop a year ago. A second is on its way for New York. “I’ve always made clothes for many different kinds of women,” she told The Telegraph in her melodious Dublin brogue earlier this year. “And now I physically see them coming into my store – older women, mothers and daughters,  students, people who are obsessed with fashion and some who aren’t really that interested. And I get good insights from them. The other day Lynn Yaeger [a renowned New York fashion journalist] was saying, “They’re so comfortable, did you know that?” And I was like, “Erm, yes, it’s on purpose, Lynn! I spend a lot of time making the clothes comfortable so that every­one can wear them."  Craig Green wins British Menswear Designer hen Craig Green launched his showstopping catwalk collections, he had to contend with a great of tabloid tittering from the sniping ‘who would actually wear this?’ brigade, writes Stephen Doig. Granted, wooden planks across the face, tent structures aloft around men’s shoulders and a smashed up collage of cardboard boxes around the heads of his models were a tough sell, but served to put his shows, and the burgeoning London Collections Men showcase as it then was, on the map. kip to the Fashion Awards this evening and it’s clear that anyone who wrote Green off as a one-hit catwalk theatrics wonder did so at their peril. As proved when the designer won the GQ Fashion Fund earlier this year, Green’s aesthetic might be one of haute-conceptualism, but his brand is grounded in reality - gauzy tops and neat jackets make up the core product that sell in their droves, away from the more hifalutin pieces. Taking his cue from the codes of uniform - workwear, school attire, even monastic robes - Green’s served to push the boundaries of London menswear and remind the press that so oft overlook the city why it’s such a talent treasure trove.  Franca Sozzani gets a standing ovation he editor of Italian has been honoured with the Swarovski award for Positive Change . Tom Ford introduced Sozzani, saying that she has an "inspiring sense of repsonsibility", "made the impossible, possible" and "challenges the orthodox". On a more frivolous note, Kate Finnigan reports that Sozzani uis wearing a pink nightie which is 2v Karen Carpenter". WINNER: @francasozzani wins the #Swarovski Award for Positive Change presented to her by @TOMFORD  #FashionAwards he audience gives her a standing ovation. Brava Franca!  A few minutes into the ceremony and the Trump jokes have already begun... veryone knows that the fashion industry is a mainly Democrat-supporting crowd so of course the issue of Trump was always going to loom over tonight's Fashion Awards. Trust host Jack Whitehall, back for another year of presenting, to break the ice early on. "To all the models, if you work really hard you could end up married to a psychotic nutter" he quipped (in case you don't gettit, incoming FLOTUS Melania Trump was once a model. hitehall also addressed Ralph Lauren who will be receiving a Lifetime Achievement Award later tonight. "Ugh, I love your Polo shirts" he told the designer, speaking for every everyman out there.  And the first award of the night goes to Molly Goddard, for British Emerging Talent reaking onto the scene just 18 months ago with her autumn/winter 2015 collection, Molly Goddard has put the fun back into fashion, writes ’s Sophie Warburton. Her first on-schedule presentation was staged as a life-drawing class, with sketching models wearing boiled wool cardigans and Molly's signature smocked tulle dresses. p next was the sandwich factory for SS16, and most recently the rave-culture inspired spring/summer '17. Each season has seen Goddard grow: both on her playful approach to traditional hand-crafted techniques including pleating, smocking and crocheting and in her loyal followers. A favourite amongst fashion editors, her dresses have been shot countless times, while the designer has also been collecting celebrity fans on her way. Rihanna was spotted wearing the label in New York in the summer, while model-cum-actress Agyness Deyn got married in a custom Goddard gown earlier this year. Goddard has also been a popular choice for the more avant-garde attendees at tonight's awards with Adwoa Aboah and Susie Lau wearing her gorgeous tulle designs. ongratulations Molly!  The awards are about to start so let's remind ourselves who is nominated tonight  Gigi and her Mum Yolanda have hit the red carpet ust days after making a joint appearance at the Victoria’s Secret show , Gigi Hadid and her Mum, Yolanda have hit the 2016 Fashion Awards although younger sister Bella is currently nowhere to be seen. Bella and Gigi are up against each other in the International Model category. In fact, it was a family affair as Gigi Hadid (wearing Atelier Versace) walked the red carpet with her mum Yolanda. The sisters were both standout stars from the recent fashion weeks, where they appeared alongside each other in the Versace, Bottega Veneta, Max Mara and Fendi shows. Naturally, the sisters are also huge on social media - Gigi has 26 million followers on Instagram alone - lending them an appearance of intimacy with their fans which earlier generations of supermodels could never hope to achieve. aroline Rush CBE, the chief executive of the British Fashion Council, which runs the awards, said either one would be a worthy winner. “Bella and Gigi are two distinctive personalities who seem to have found their feet so young,” she said.“Both are incredibly talented models but the nominations show that our voting panel also recognises the power of social media. Both young women are brilliant examples of businesswomen who have been able to harness the consumer demand to engage with the personality." till, it’s the first time that sisters have been nominated in the same category, so what sets the Hadids apart? At first glance it certainly might seem that the pair have CVs that read like that of countless American models: born in LA, dreamt of becoming athletes at school, gave up their studies after being discovered, won a contract with a big name designer, appeared in the pages of Vogue. But there is something that sets the sisters apart, and it’s not just the fact they both have blue-green eyes. The two are of Palestinian-Dutch extraction, making them something of a rarity on the runway. Their father Mohammed Hadid is a wealthy property developer, said to be worth between $100 and $200 million, who is reputedly descended from the Bedouin princes of pre-war Palestine. Gigi and Bella’s mother Yolanda van den Herik - who was in Paris last week to watch her daughters become the first sisters to take part in the Victoria's Secret show - is a former model, who is herself said to be worth $54 million and is best known as a star of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills. n 2014, Bella moved to New York and began studying photography before dropping out to begin her modelling career. She had wanted to compete in the equestrian events at the 2016 Rio Olympics, but was forced to abandon riding after contracting Lyme disease , along with her mother and brother Anwar, who is also a model. Gigi also moved to New York after leaving high school, where, like her sister, she signed with the agency IMG Models in 2013. Two years later, she appeared in the Pirelli calendar and was named Maybelline brand ambassador. ut the meteoric rise of the Hadid girls has not been without its moments of controversy. In July 2014, Bella, then aged 17, was arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol on LA’s Pacific Coast Highway. She was sentenced to 25 hours' community service and required to attend 20 hours of Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. And on US election night, as the results in favour of Donald Trump rolled in, Bella wrote on Twitter: “This is so f***** up” and “What the f***”. Later, Gigi was criticised for performing an impression of future First Lady Melania Trump imitating President Obama’s wife Michelle, while she was co-hosting the American Music Awards. The model, who is dating Zayn Malik, apologised to Mrs Trump and said she had “only the best wishes for our country.” Marilyn Manson takes the prize for most unexpected guest on the 2016 Fashion Awards red carpet he prize for most unexpected guest on the 2016 Fashion Awards must go to Marilyn Manson, who has just trotted down the red carpet dressed head-to-toe in black, naturally. (His shoes, meanwhile, were a gift from Gareth Pugh). Whilst there’s no obvious reason why the Prince of Darkness is at the biggest night in British fashion, it’s certainly true that the industry have embraced him. Manson was recently shot by controversial photographer Terry Richardson for the 25th anniversary issue of DAZED, wearing mock band slogan tops from cult label Vetements’ AW16 collection. Could this be a clue? Or indeed a taster of things to come? (Because, side note: can you imagine if Vetements’ next cult t-shirts had Mr Manson’s name emblazoned across the chest?). ne person who was certainly excited to see Manson on the red carpet was International Model of the Year nominee Adwoa Aboah. She couldn’t get over the fact the singer stopped to admire her neon green Molly Goddard dress. “I love that! If I could have got a compliment from anyone in the room tonight...” she laughed, before skipping off excitedly inside.  Karlie! Rosie! Eva! Oh my, the models are out in force on the red carpet ant to see every look from the 2016 Fashion Awards red carpet? Keep refreshing this gallery, right here...  We're LIVE from the Fashion Awards red carpet t's freezing cold but the stars are arriving at the Fashion Awards thick and fast. The Telegraph's Bethan Holt and Emily Cronin are quizzing them on all things style right now on Facebook Live.  Will Sir Philip Green be at this year's Fashion Awards? rom one of the original fashion bloggers Susie Bubble’s Susannah Lau to Kate Moss, Anna Wintour and David Beckham, the guest list for tonight’s 2016 Fashion Awards reads like a who’s who of British Fashion. But one person who we’re not sure whether will be attending is Sir Philip Green. Oh hi just getting ready for the #FashionAwards 2016 in masses of grey tulle courtesy of @mollymgoddard 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻 pic.twitter.com/ZVn7RJkLRP he Topshop proprietor is normally stationed front and centre, happily surrounded by the notable celebrities present. Last year, his daughter Chloe even accompanied him on the red carpet. ut since MPs voted to strip him of his knighthood in light of the BHS backlash, the Green family have kept an unusually low profile. Sir Philip skipped the Topshop Unique show SS17 show at September’s London Fashion Week, preferring, his aides said to let the see-now-buy-now element of the collection get the headlines. So can we expect the same no show tonight? Only time will tell…  Dame Natalie Massenet opens the 2016 Fashion Awards... Proving we've come a long way from the very first British Fashion Awards in 1989 t seems only appropriate that Dame Natalie Massenet - chairman of the British Fashion Council and the woman who changed the way we all shop when she founded Net-a-Porter - is first to take to the red carpet at the 2016 Fashion Awards. Accompanied by the British Fashion Council's CEO, Caroline Rush, and Nadja Swarovski the trio mark a glamorous start to the ceremony that's been rebranded this year.  @nat_mass, @nadja.swarovski & @97crush open the #FashionAwards 2016 red carpet #Swarovski A photo posted by British Fashion Council (@britishfashioncouncil) on he intention is to turn the 2016 Awards - which are sponsored by Swarovski - into an international showcase, with ambitions to rival the starry, Anna Wintour-run annual Met Gala in aid of the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute in New York. As such, they have worked hard to attract A-list heavyweights to the event, including Bella and Gigi Hadid, the supermodel sisters who are up against each other in the Model of the Year category . But while the supermodel pair might have dominated the news agenda thus far, they were but twinkles in their parents' eyes when the very first British Fashion Awards took place in 1989. aturally, it was a glamorous affair from the off. Princess Diana was guest of honour, presenting Hardy Amies with the British Fashion Council's Hall of Fame award. The evening saw the debut of what became known as Diana's 'Elvis' outfit- a white strapless dress which came with a matching bolero jacket with a collar resembling the raised styles once made famous by Presley himself. It was created by Catherine Walker, the British designer who Diana relied upon from as early as 1981 for appropriate yet glamorous looks for her public engagements. With her slicked-back hair, Diana was working the on the-cusp-of-the-90s looks to perfection. here were just 7 awards presented at that first ceremony, versus the 14 we're expecting tonight. Some things never change though; Naomi Campbell was pictured smiling with designer Rifat Ozbek and posing in a Lakers cap at those first awards. She’s set to present an award tonight too, and no doubt she'll make just as much of a style statement as she did 27 years ago.  While we wait for this year's red carpet to start, here's a reminder of who wore what last year  Judging by the pre-parties, the fashion elite will attend tonight's Fashion Awards he Fashion Awards action kicked off yesterday with a couple of low key events for everyone who was already in town for the biggest night of the year in British Fashion. To Little House in Mayfair first for a brunch 'do. Alexa Chung and Naomi Campbell both opted for the suitably nonchalant yet pulled together combination of jeans and a blazer. hung's cream tailored jacket is by niche label Blaze (one to bookmark if you have money to invest in something which feels special but which you'll use for ever) while Campbell's pepto-bismol pink velvet number has a proper party feel, especially paired with a skinny scarf. he tailoring theme continued later in the day as M'oda Operandi hosted an evening shindig. The suit was confirmed as the ageless answer for elegant evening dressing as Mary McCartney, 47, and Maye Musk, 69, both looked fabulous in their tailored two-pieces. Laura Bailey meanwhile enlivened her timeless Chanel tweed jacket with a pop-art t-shirt. nna Wintour wrapped up against the December chill in a striped coat and brocade dress. And two women at the helm of the BFC and The Fashion Awards showed their support for Brit talent; British Fashion Council CEO Caroline Rush showcased a vibrant Roksanda dress while Dame Natalie Massenet was in an Erdem skirt.

Still, it’s the first time that sisters have been nominated in the same category, so what sets the Hadids apart? At first glance it certainly might seem that the pair have CVs that read like that of countless American models: born in LA, dreamt of becoming athletes at school, gave up their studies after being discovered, won a contract with a big name designer, appeared in the pages of Vogue. But there is something that sets the sisters apart, and it’s not just the fact they both have blue-green eyes.

The two are of Palestinian-Dutch extraction, making them something of a rarity on the runway. Their father Mohammed Hadid is a wealthy property developer, said to be worth between $100 and $200 million, who is reputedly descended from the Bedouin princes of pre-war Palestine. Gigi and Bella’s mother Yolanda van den Herik - who was in Paris last week to watch her daughters become the first sisters to take part in the Victoria's Secret show - is a former model, who is herself said to be worth $54 million and is best known as a star of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills.