Share your photos of cats for a chance to win Jane Bown's book

Jane Bown is a legendary Observer photographer best-known for her portraits of icons from Beckett to Bjork. Her book Cats is a collection of 100 black and white pictures of felines which reveals the same sympathetic eye and wit as her portraits. She captures the cats sprawling, prowling, lolling, playing, feeding and lounging, with house cats, alley cats, show cats and kittens among her collection. We have ten copies of Jane Bown: Cats to give away and we’d like to see your best photos of felines. Whether they’re playing or lounging, share your pictures and stories with us. The closing date for entries is 23:59 on 1 January 2017. Terms and conditions apply and can be found below. Please read: and we need you to via GuardianWitness. You’ll also need to on where it was taken, what’s happening in the shot, what inspired you to take it etc. You can share your photos by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ buttons. Or if you’re out and about you can download the Guardian app and search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’. GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site. Jane Bown: Cats prize draw: terms and conditions The Jane Bown: Cats prize draw (the “Prize Draw”) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over. The Prize Draw is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM” or the “Promoter”), their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected to the Prize Draw. Entrants into the Prize Draw shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions. To enter the Prize Draw you must send in a photo of a cat or cats with a short description via GuardianWitness. You can do this by clicking on the ‘Contribute’ buttons in the callout or by going to theguardian.com/witness and contributing directly through the assignment page. No purchase is necessary. If you have any questions about how to enter or otherwise in connection with the Prize Draw, please email us at guardian.witness@theguardian.com with “Jane Bown: Cats” in the subject line. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Prize Draw entry to us. The winners shall be the owner of the GuardianWitness accounts from which the selected winning entries are sent. GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM. The Prize Draw opens at 11:45 on 1 December 2016 and closes at 23:59 on 1 January 2017. Entries received outside this time period will not be considered. There are 10 prizes to be won. Each of the winners will receive a copy of Jane Bown’s book ‘Jane Bown: Cats’. Only one winner per household. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize that are not expressly included in the prize. The winners will be selected by way of a random draw from all entries received in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. The draw will take place on or after 1 January 2017. The winners will be notified by email within seven days of the closing date and given details of how to claim their prize. If a winner does not respond to GNM within 14 days of being notified of their win, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner in accordance with the process described above (and that winner will have to respond to notification of their win within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize or the entry is invalid or in breach of these terms, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner. The prize will be sent to the winners within 14 days of receiving a response from the winners. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 14 days after the closing date by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: GuardianWitness, Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable and not redeemable for cash or any other prize. GNM reserves the right to substitute the prize with an alternative prize of similar value in the event that the original prize offered is not available. The winners may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Prize Draw and the winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter’s reasonable request. The winners consent to the use by the Promoter and its related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Prize Draw for an unlimited time, of the winner’s voice, image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by the Promoter and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Prize Draw, all entrants consent to the same. The Promoter shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy , and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the Prize Draw, you agree to the collection, retention, usage and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Prize Draw entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 12 above. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Prize Draw or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person’s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Prize Draw. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from its negligence. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Prize Draw with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its reasonable control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters relating to the Prize Draw is final and no correspondence will be entered into. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations relating to this Prize Draw where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure. The Prize Draw and these Terms and Conditions will be governed by English law and entrants to the Prize Draw submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. Promoter: Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU. Topics  Photography

Jane Bown is a legendary Observer photographer best-known for her portraits of icons from Beckett to Bjork. Her book Cats is a collection of 100 black and white pictures of felines which reveals the same sympathetic eye and wit as her portraits.



She captures the cats sprawling, prowling, lolling, playing, feeding and lounging, with house cats, alley cats, show cats and kittens among her collection.



We have ten copies of Jane Bown: Cats to give away and we’d like to see your best photos of felines. Whether they’re playing or lounging, share your pictures and stories with us.



The closing date for entries is 23:59 on 1 January 2017. Terms and conditions apply and can be found below.

Please read: You can only enter ONE image, must be a UK resident and we need you to upload the highest possible resolution of your shot via GuardianWitness. You’ll also need to provide a caption on where it was taken, what’s happening in the shot, what inspired you to take it etc.



You can share your photos by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ buttons. Or if you’re out and about you can download the Guardian app and search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’.

GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.

Jane Bown: Cats is published by Guardian Faber. Click here to order a copy for £11.99

Jane Bown: Cats prize draw: terms and conditions