Sanjeev Gupta: the man who sees opportunity in UK industry where others don't
Sanjeev Gupta: the man who sees opportunity in UK industry where others don't
anjeev Gupta is tired. The industrialist behind the fast-expanding Liberty Group has had only three hours sleep, having just flown back from the UAE, where he watched the Abu Dhabi grand prix. Was this a holiday for the man who says he has taken just two vacations in his life, one of them his honeymoon? “Not really, it was mostly meeting clients,” he says. “But hey, it was a grand prix, you can’t call it all work.” He is speaking in his “office” on the top floor of the Mayfair headquarters of his Liberty group. It is not yet really his office: until last month it was his apartment, and his office suite was on the floor below. The space was required when Liberty bought Tungsten’s banking arm to create an “industry friendly” bank, so Gupta’s desk has been relocated upstairs. No wonder he is tired. In the past fortnight, Gupta has masterminded the £330m acquisition of Rio Tinto’s Scottish aluminium smelting and hydro-power plant and what is likely to be a £100m purchase of Tata’s Yorkshire-based speciality steel business, a mini-spree that will nearly double Liberty’s payroll, with another 1,850 staff. hortly before that came the Tungsten deal: “It’s been renamed Wyelands bank, after my home estate in Chepstow,” Gupta says. Before that, he snapped up two Scottish steel mills from Tata, and the bulk of the Caparo engineering business out of administration. He admits the expansion has been done at “breakneck speed”. As the steel crisis ravaged British industry, no wonder the serial deal-maker was painted as the man who could save UK manufacturing. So what does he see that others do not, and why does he think he can make it work where others can’t? “It’s not that other people can’t do it, but they are burdened by the past,” Gupta says. “We don’t have any legacy. We are not encumbered by cost, debt, or pensions.” One of the major hurdles to attempts by Liberty, and others, to buy Tata’s entire UK steel business was the £14bn pension fund attached to it. Tata is still pondering how it will deal with this millstone. Gupta says fortuitous timing has also helped. The company only really got into UK industry over the past 18 months, first with sister business Simec’s reopening of the Uskmouth power station, near Newport, in June 2015, then when it restarted production at the neighbouring steel plant a few months later. “We are fortunate to be young and ambitious in a time that is a turning-point for the industry of our country,” Gupta says. “My view is that by and large Britain is not a place where industry has been encouraged but that is about to change or is changing: look at Brexit and the industrial strategy. “As a country out of Europe we’ve got to be more self-sufficient and that means stronger industry, making our own steel and products from it.” e says he voted “Out”, but did not speak out about his decision, not wanting to unduly influence anyone: “It’s a question of where do you want to see your country in 50 years, what sort of country do you want to live in?” Unlike many, he has no hesitation in naming how European legislation has harmed him. “Energy. In the UK we pay more than anyone else,” he says quickly, though he adds he is against direct state interference in business. “Encouragement not restraint, supply side reforms: tariffs and levies don’t work,” Gupta says. Liberty’s diversified business model is what the Government should be thinking of as it maps out a new industrial strategy, he boldly claims. Gupta has already forged strong links with Westminster, evidence of which is on a sidetable in his office in the form of pictures of him with political heavyweights including Theresa May, Boris Johnson, and the SNP’s Nicola Sturgeon. iberty has spent at least £500m in the past year on acquisitions, prompting questions about where the money has come from, and whether the balance sheet can withstand such a spending spree. “We have no corporate debt,” insists Gupta. “We raised money against the assets or long-term cashflows - we’re secure.” Liberty’s complex structure - the topco is Singapore-registered - makes it difficult to unravel the finances but Gupta points to a prospectus containing its structure. According to the document, the industrials arm, which includes the steel and engineering businesses, had a turnover of $450m in 2016, delivering pre-tax earnings of $31m and net assets worth $239m. “Those figures are much higher, actually,” says Gupta, though won’t quantify exactly by how much. “The new ones will be out soon.” For the entire Liberty empire, which includes his father PK Gupta’s Simec business, turnover is $6.7bn, pre-tax earnings $140m and it has assets of $1bn. However, Gupta says this includes Liberty’s commodities trading business, where “turnover is huge but margins thin”. The company’s finances should become clearer soon. “We’re Singapore-registered because we used to be very Asia focused, we’re going to have a UK-registered topco for the industrials arm soon because most of our business is now in the UK,” Gupta says. he question of whether he is a “deal junkie” is also batted away. “Opportunities came up and we took them,” he says. “We’ve got a lot more to do.” There is no point in reflecting on Liberty’s ambitious attempt to buy all of Tata’s UK steel assets, Gupta says, though he would take another look should it come up again. But he does find it interesting that the Rio deal, far larger by value than any of the Tata acquisitions, got little attention compared to his steel deals. “That was much bigger, £330m, and it got little coverage,” Gupta says. “It’s because steel is so emotive, it’s about having an industry that allows self-sufficiency, in things like defence.” The purchase of various steel furnaces are part of a larger plan (Gupta wants to have a capacity of 5m tonnes, and he is about two thirds of the way there) to complete his “green steel” vision, where scrap steel is recycled in the UK. This fresh steel would then be funnelled into the UK supply chain, especially Liberty’s engineering businesses, bringing a competitive advantage against imports. “Britain uses 21m tonnes of steel annually, 11m of which is imported,” he says. “There’s a profound gap there, and that’s a market opportunity.” he country will never make all the kettles or washing machines it currently imports but Gupta does see opportunity in high-value steel products. The former Caparo businesses are top suppliers to Jaguar Land Rover and Nissan, and Gupta wants to get the UK content of British-built cars increased. The Tata speciality business supplies Rolls-Royce and he is hoping to strike deals to see it and other aerospace customers taking steel and aluminium from Liberty’s plants. He also hints at another deal on the horizon, “a major automotive supplier that will double the size of the engineering business”, but will not be drawn on what exactly it is. These deals, Gupta says, “are all about joining the dots, filling in the gaps” so the different arms of the business are working together. However, he stresses that they are all independent of each other, with their own management. “I’m the traffic policeman in the middle,” Gupta says. The question remains, why is he the man targeting British industry when others are running a mile? “There’s pride in running any successful, productive business but there’s more pride in doing it at home,” he says.

Sanjeev Gupta is tired. The industrialist behind the fast-expanding Liberty Group has had only three hours sleep, having just flown back from the UAE, where he watched the Abu Dhabi grand prix.

Was this a holiday for the man who says he has taken just two vacations in his life, one of them his honeymoon? “Not really, it was mostly meeting clients,” he says. “But hey, it was a grand prix, you can’t call it all work.”

He is speaking in his “office” on the top floor of the Mayfair headquarters of his Liberty group. It is not yet really his office: until last month it was his apartment, and his office suite was on the floor below. The space was required when Liberty bought Tungsten’s banking arm to create an “industry friendly” bank, so Gupta’s desk has been relocated upstairs.

No wonder he is tired. In the past fortnight, Gupta has masterminded the £330m acquisition of Rio Tinto’s Scottish aluminium smelting and hydro-power plant and what is likely to be a £100m purchase of Tata’s Yorkshire-based speciality steel business, a mini-spree that will nearly double Liberty’s payroll, with another 1,850 staff.