Beats Presents: Kid Cudi Featuring Virgil Abloh & Dot Da Genius At Art Basel 2016
Beats Presents: Kid Cudi Featuring Virgil Abloh & Dot Da Genius At Art Basel 2016
Kid Cudi has ramped up his post rehab appearances since making his return to the stage at 2016 ComplexCon . He’s publicly reconciled with Kanye West , and Cudi recently partnered with Beats by Dre, Virgil Abloh and Dot Da Genius at Miami’s Art Basel. As part of Beats By Dre’s final #BeatsPresents release of 2016, the series focused on a dance party inspired by the set design of Cudi’s single, “Surfin’.” Kid Cudi is approximately two weeks away from the scheduled release of his sixth studio album, . Some audience members took the “Surfin’” theme to heart and began crowd surfing to the curated musical set. “We’re gonna have a good time tonight,” Cudi told the Art Basel crowd assembled at Little Haiti’s The Warehouse. “We’re gonna party tonight.” With various branches from the G.O.O.D. Music family on hand, Travis Scott briefly spoke on Cudi’s impact. “Cudi…living legend,” Scott said. “The best. The original rager.” Previous #BeatsPresents clips have focused on Anderson Paak, Graham Coxon and Stephen Street of Blur, among others. Kid Cudi's is scheduled for a Dec. 16 release, and is expected for include features from Pharrell Williams, Dot da Genius, Mike Dean, Mike WiLL Made-It, and Plain Pat.

Kid Cudi has ramped up his post rehab appearances since making his return to the stage at 2016 ComplexCon. He’s publicly reconciled with Kanye West, and Cudi recently partnered with Beats by Dre, Virgil Abloh and Dot Da Genius at Miami’s Art Basel. As part of Beats By Dre’s final #BeatsPresents release of 2016, the series focused on a dance party inspired by the set design of Cudi’s single, “Surfin’.”

Kid Cudi is approximately two weeks away from the scheduled release of his sixth studio album, Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin’. Some audience members took the “Surfin’” theme to heart and began crowd surfing to the curated musical set.

“We’re gonna have a good time tonight,” Cudi told the Art Basel crowd assembled at Little Haiti’s The Warehouse. “We’re gonna party tonight.”

With various branches from the G.O.O.D. Music family on hand, Travis Scott briefly spoke on Cudi’s impact.

“Cudi…living legend,” Scott said. “The best. The original rager.”

Previous #BeatsPresents clips have focused on Anderson Paak, Graham Coxon and Stephen Street of Blur, among others. Kid Cudi's Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin’ is scheduled for a Dec. 16 release, and is expected for include features from Pharrell Williams, Dot da Genius, Mike Dean, Mike WiLL Made-It, and Plain Pat.