For Everyone Who Doesn’t Know About Liam Payne And Cheryl
For Everyone Who Doesn't Know About Liam Payne And Cheryl
You might’ve heard that Liam Payne and Cheryl are ~in love~.  View on Instagram And now it looks like the two may be expecting a baby! But maybe you’re asking yourself, “Who? What? How did this happen?”  View on Instagram Well, lemme give you a brief rundown of the situation. This is Cheryl. She was in the popular British girl group Girls Aloud, is currently a solo singer, has numerous endorsement deals, and has been a judge on  on and off. Remember that last tidbit. In the beginning of her career, Cheryl was known as Cheryl Tweedy. She then went by Cheryl Cole after her marriage to Ashley Cole, then went by Cheryl Fernandez-Versini after her marriage to Jean-Bernard Fernandez-Versini, and now just goes by Cheryl. This is Liam Payne. He was in One Direction, which I hear is very popular among the youths. He’s also dabbled in producing and is going to embark on his own solo career. Now, remember how Cheryl was a judge on ? Liam was on , which is where he met Cheryl for the first time at age 14. Cheryl was 24 at the time. Liam ended up getting sent home — Simon didn’t think he was ready — but two years later came back at age 16, wound up in One Direction, and you know the rest of it. One Direction came in third on but Simon signed them to his Syco label and they pretty much blew the fuck up. This brings us to early 2016, when it was revealed that Cheryl and Liam are dating.  View on Instagram Liam’s caption read: “#internationalwomensday to my favourite woman in the world hope I make you as happy as u make me X” And now Cheryl is pregnant . Who said you can’t find love on a reality show? Congrats, you guys!  View on Instagram   30 Things You Should Know About Pentatonix    A Ranking Of All 50 People In "Love Actually"  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

5. This is Cheryl. She was in the popular British girl group Girls Aloud, is currently a solo singer, has numerous endorsement deals, and has been a judge on The X Factor on and off. Remember that last tidbit.

Pascal Le Segretain / Getty Images

In the beginning of her career, Cheryl was known as Cheryl Tweedy. She then went by Cheryl Cole after her marriage to Ashley Cole, then went by Cheryl Fernandez-Versini after her marriage to Jean-Bernard Fernandez-Versini, and now just goes by Cheryl.