Bolton on Trump's Taiwan Call: China Doesn't Tell Us Who We Can Talk To

Bolton on Trump's Taiwan Call: China Doesn't Tell Us Who We Can Talk To // // // // // // Former US Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton said President-elect Donald Trump should 'shake up' the relationship between America and China. Bolton responded to the news of a phone call between Trump and Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, which caused China to submit a complaint with the US through its foreign ministry. "Honestly, I think we should shake the relationship up. For the past several years China has made aggressive... belligerent claims in the South China Sea," he said on . Beijing views Taiwan as a rebel province of mainland China, and the United States has recognized China's claim since President Jimmy Carter officially acknowledged the "one China" policy in 1979. Therefore, Trump's discussion with Tsai has been seen by some as a breach of protocol, but Bolton disagreed: "Nobody in Beijing gets to dictate who we talk to. It's ridiculous to think that the phone call upsets decades of anything." He noted Taiwan, with a population of 20 million, has a democratic government, a free press and a free-market economic system. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Palin Blasts Trump's Carrier Deal: 'Crony Capitalism is One Big Fail'

'I Want Them Locked Up': TX Family Presses for Cyber-Bullying Laws After Teen's Suicide

Malkin: Mainstream Media, Clinton Team Still in Denial About Why Trump Won

Former US Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton said President-elect Donald Trump should 'shake up' the relationship between America and China.

Bolton responded to the news of a phone call between Trump and Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, which caused China to submit a complaint with the US through its foreign ministry.

"Honestly, I think we should shake the relationship up. For the past several years China has made aggressive... belligerent claims in the South China Sea," he said on Fox & Friends.

Beijing views Taiwan as a rebel province of mainland China, and the United States has recognized China's claim since President Jimmy Carter officially acknowledged the "one China" policy in 1979.

Therefore, Trump's discussion with Tsai has been seen by some as a breach of protocol, but Bolton disagreed:

"Nobody in Beijing gets to dictate who we talk to. It's ridiculous to think that the phone call upsets decades of anything."

He noted Taiwan, with a population of 20 million, has a democratic government, a free press and a free-market economic system.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Virginia Schools Ban 'To Kill a Mockingbird,' 'Huck Finn' Over Racial Slurs

Christian Artists Could Be Fined, Jailed for Refusing to Make Same-Sex Wedding Invitations

Two Feet of Snow Forecasted For... Hawaii?!