I'm Still Standing - Elton John says: 'I am not retiring'
I'm Still Standing - Elton John says: 'I am not retiring'
lton John has refuted the claims that he will be retiring next year after 50 years in the industry to spend time with his family. On Saturday, The Daily Mail reported that John “has seen and done it all, and has nothing to prove”, and would take a permanent break in his relentless touring schedule. However, on by the afternoon the Rocketman singer posted an update on his Instagram account announcing that he had no plans to retire. "Don't believe what you read in the papers today," the update read. "There is no truth to the rumours that I am planning to retire. In fact, I am looking forward to celebrating 50 years of collaborating with my partner-in-song, Bernie Taupin, next year." He accompanied the statement with a photograph of him and Taupin, his life-long collaborator, from the Seventies:  Don't believe what you read in the papers today. There is no truth to the rumours that I am planning to retire. In fact, I am looking forward to celebrating 50 years of collaborating with my partner-in-song, Bernie Taupin, next year. @rocketentertainment A photo posted by Elton John (@eltonjohn) on ext year will mark half a century since Taupin and John met and recorded their first song, Scarecrow.

Elton John has refuted the claims that he will be retiring next year after 50 years in the industry to spend time with his family.

On Saturday, The Daily Mail reported that John “has seen and done it all, and has nothing to prove”, and would take a permanent break in his relentless touring schedule.

However, on by the afternoon the Rocketman singer posted an update on his Instagram account announcing that he had no plans to retire.

"Don't believe what you read in the papers today," the update read. "There is no truth to the rumours that I am planning to retire. In fact, I am looking forward to celebrating 50 years of collaborating with my partner-in-song, Bernie Taupin, next year."

He accompanied the statement with a photograph of him and Taupin, his life-long collaborator, from the Seventies: