The best cookbooks and kitchen tools 2016 | Cook shelf of fame

A tip from Cook fave Jeremy Lee, these are aprons to make you stand up straight and cook like a legend. Available in many hues, though the Chinese yellow is where it’s at for us.  The priciest items on our list are actual artworks. Peter Shire has been making these playful, sculptural ceramics since the 1970s, but they are absolutely having a moment right now. Not a day goes by without Cook needing to use one of these. And its diminutive size means having it out won’t clutter up your counter.  Solid and pleasingly simple, these are as easy on the fingers as they are on the eyes.  As sturdy as Le Creuset – and burnproof, to boot. A minimalist cook’s dream. The sieve doubles up as a colander and fits its bowl snugly; you can use a couple at a time without handle clash. Stashed away, they take up no more space than a stack of bowls.  Comfortingly rustic to the touch and visually subtle – vessels to make your food shine bright.  Another tome to travel with; Dunlop’s prose is as masterful as her Chinese: unbeatably authentic. An adventurous cooking primer from the person who’s perfected the recipe for just about everything. Sodha’s second book confirmed what we sensed from the first: her’s is the tastiest, liveliest, spice-infused fare this side of the Sabamarti river. Extra points for the vegetarian focus. Exactly what any budding preserver needs: glass lids so nothing rusts, wide mouths for easy filling, and shapes for all purposes.  Perfect for cutting dough, yes, but also for measuring slices, scraping surfaces, gathering choppings … its uses are legion, and its price is just right. Each little work of art is a tiny stub of a spoon (and a surprisingly useful thing). We don’t just want one. We want them all, in a row. Not so much a cookbook as an encyclopedia of tastes from a part of the world you instantly – from page one – want to travel the length and breadth of. A beautifully illustrated personal memoir of a year of eating good platefuls. To shelve alongside Nigel Slater’s Kitchen Diaries. A snapshot of an exhilaratingly alive part of London’s food scene. Nuno Mendes lovingly wrote the intro. We delightedly put it on our shelf. Recipes from Sqirl, the LA hotspot that everyone seems to want to go to – don’t miss the ricotta toast and the sorrel pesto rice bowl. Topics  Food & drink   Christmas   Chefs   Food and drink   Gadgets

Volga Linen bib apron

A tip from Cook fave Jeremy Lee, these are aprons to make you stand up straight and cook like a legend. Available in many hues, though the Chinese yellow is where it’s at for us. volgalinen.co.uk, £49

EXP Multi Tone mug

The priciest items on our list are actual artworks. Peter Shire has been making these playful, sculptural ceramics since the 1970s, but they are absolutely having a moment right now. momosanshop.com, £62

Cuisinart Mini Prep Pro food processor

Not a day goes by without Cook needing to use one of these. And its diminutive size means having it out won’t clutter up your counter. cuisinart.co.uk, £40

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Hay scissors, Crane pan, Muji sieve, Kana fruit bowl.

Brass scissors by Hay

Solid and pleasingly simple, these are as easy on the fingers as they are on the eyes. hauslondon.com, £9

Crane cookware

As sturdy as Le Creuset – and burnproof, to boot. A minimalist cook’s dream. cranecookware.com; frying pan £85, casserole £135

Muji stainless steel sieve and bowl

The sieve doubles up as a colander and fits its bowl snugly; you can use a couple at a time without handle clash. Stashed away, they take up no more space than a stack of bowls. muji.eu; sieve £12.95, bowl £6.95

Kana Basic White bowls

Comfortingly rustic to the touch and visually subtle – vessels to make your food shine bright. kanalondon.com, £16-£40

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Books by Fuchsia Dunlop, Felicity Cloake and Meera Sodha.

Land of Fish and Rice, Fuchsia Dunlop

Another tome to travel with; Dunlop’s prose is as masterful as her Chinese: unbeatably authentic. Bloomsbury, £26

The A-Z of Eating, Felicity Cloake

An adventurous cooking primer from the person who’s perfected the recipe for just about everything. Fig Tree, £25

Fresh India, Meera Sodha

Sodha’s second book confirmed what we sensed from the first: her’s is the tastiest, liveliest, spice-infused fare this side of the Sabamarti river. Extra points for the vegetarian focus. Fig Tree, £20

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Weck jars, Paul Hollywood dough cutter, Shino Takeda spoons.

Weck jars

Exactly what any budding preserver needs: glass lids so nothing rusts, wide mouths for easy filling, and shapes for all purposes. twentytwentyone.com, £4.50-£6

Paul Hollywood stainless steel dough cutter

Perfect for cutting dough, yes, but also for measuring slices, scraping surfaces, gathering choppings … its uses are legion, and its price is just right. johnlewis.com, £6.99

Shino Takeda spoons

Each little work of art is a tiny stub of a spoon (and a surprisingly useful thing). We don’t just want one. We want them all, in a row. momosanshop.com, £14-£24

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Books by Magnus Nilsson, Oliver Rowe, Rosie Birkett and Jessica Koslow.

The Nordic Cook Book, Magnus Nilsson

Not so much a cookbook as an encyclopedia of tastes from a part of the world you instantly – from page one – want to travel the length and breadth of. Phaidon, £29.95

Food for All Seasons, Oliver Rowe

A beautifully illustrated personal memoir of a year of eating good platefuls. To shelve alongside Nigel Slater’s Kitchen Diaries. Faber & Faber, £20

East London Food, Rosie Birkett

A snapshot of an exhilaratingly alive part of London’s food scene. Nuno Mendes lovingly wrote the intro. We delightedly put it on our shelf. Hoxton Mini Press, £28

Everything I Want to Eat, Jessica Koslow

Recipes from Sqirl, the LA hotspot that everyone seems to want to go to – don’t miss the ricotta toast and the sorrel pesto rice bowl. Abrams, £21.99