10 PlayStation Experience reveals you might have missed
10 PlayStation Experience reveals you might have missed
By now you've seen all the big news around  games like , , and . But there was plenty more revealed during the 2016 PlayStation Experience keynote. SEE ALSO: Beloved 'Destiny' exotic Ice Breaker returns this winter If you want to see everything, just go re-watch the whole keynote. But if you want the TL;DR of it all, read on for six reveals that might have slipped past you in the midst of all the excitement. 1. World League 2017 has a huge prize pool The World League returns in 2017 and it's got a total prize pool valued at $4 million. There are plenty more details to be revealed about the upcoming season's lineup of regional tournaments. Keep an eye on 's esports page for more. 2. Akuma returns in  The bad guy fighter Akuma, who made his debut in , is coming back in . He'll be available — along with five other fighters — as part of the game's Character Pass. Check out the first gameplay in the trailer above. 3. Studio Ghibli's JRPG returns with a sequel It's not clear if Studio Ghibli is still involved, but the film company's JRPG collaboration with Level-5, titled returns in 2017 with a sequel, . 4. is out, and free for one day It may not be available in your PlayStation Store just yet, but Sony confirmed during the PlayStation Experience 2016 keynote that the latest game from Grasshopper Manufacture and GungHo Entertainment, is out on Dec. 3 and free to download for the day. It's an M-rated game that features violence, blood and gore, sexual themes, nudity, strong language and drug use... so maybe send the kids outside before you play. 5. , are both out Sony surprised PlayStation Experience attendees with two surprise PSN releases: and . The former is available for PS4 and PS Vita while the latter — a $25 buy — includes all of the game's add-ons in its PS4 debut. 6. still looks cool AF Robot. Dinosaurs. What more do you need to know? , the upcoming RPG from Guerrilla Games, lets you explore a vast world populated by mechanized dinos. We've seen it before and we'll surely see it again before its Feb. 28 release, but this new PlayStation Experience trailer is here to remind us that the game still looks badass. 7. is due for a revival In one of the more unexpected PSX 2016 reveals, Sony confirmed that is coming to PS4 and PS Vita. The competitive flying disc game debuted on Neo Geo arcade machines in 1994. The PlayStation revival adds an online head-to-head mode but looks otherwise unchanged. 8. is back and here's your first look Sony confirmed at E3 2016 that , , and were all due for HD makeovers in an upcoming collection. A new trailer revealed at PSX 2016 offers a first peek at how they're looking, as well as a new title: . 9. revives a Sony classic It's been four years and an entire console generation since the last game. That release — for PS Vita — along with and its add-on are coming to PS4 in 2017 as the . 10. is coming back (with friends) is a cartoon rhythm game that debuted on the original PlayStation in 1997. It was rereleased in the mid-aughts for PlayStation Portable, but fans can look forward to a fully remastered 20th anniversary edition in 2017, with a demo available on PSN right now. As if that's not enough, Sony favorites and are also pegged for HD releases in the coming year.

By now you've seen all the big news around games like Marvel vs. Capcom, The Last of Us, and Uncharted. But there was plenty more revealed during the 2016 PlayStation Experience keynote.

If you want to see everything, just go re-watch the whole keynote. But if you want the TL;DR of it all, read on for six reveals that might have slipped past you in the midst of all the excitement.

1. Call of Duty World League 2017 has a huge prize pool

The Call of Duty World League returns in 2017 and it's got a total prize pool valued at $4 million. There are plenty more details to be revealed about the upcoming season's lineup of regional tournaments. Keep an eye on Call of Duty's esports page for more.

2. Akuma returns in Street Fighter V

The bad guy fighter Akuma, who made his debut in Super Street Fighter II Turbo, is coming back in Street Fighter V. He'll be available — along with five other fighters — as part of the game's Character Pass. Check out the first gameplay in the trailer above.

3. Studio Ghibli's JRPG returns with a sequel

It's not clear if Studio Ghibli is still involved, but the film company's JRPG collaboration with Level-5, titled Ni No Kuni, returns in 2017 with a sequel, Ni No Kuni II: Revenant Wings.

4. Let It Die is out, and free for one day

It may not be available in your PlayStation Store just yet, but Sony confirmed during the PlayStation Experience 2016 keynote that Let It Die, the latest game from Grasshopper Manufacture and GungHo Entertainment, is out on Dec. 3 and free to download for the day. It's an M-rated game that features violence, blood and gore, sexual themes, nudity, strong language and drug use... so maybe send the kids outside before you play.

5. Lara Croft Go, Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3 are both out

Sony surprised PlayStation Experience attendees with two surprise PSN releases: Lara Croft Go and Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3. The former is available for PS4 and PS Vita while the latter — a $25 buy — includes all of the game's add-ons in its PS4 debut.

6. Horizon: Zero Dawn still looks cool AF

Robot. Dinosaurs. What more do you need to know? Horizon: Zero Dawn, the upcoming RPG from Guerrilla Games, lets you explore a vast world populated by mechanized dinos. We've seen it before and we'll surely see it again before its Feb. 28 release, but this new PlayStation Experience trailer is here to remind us that the game still looks badass.

7. Windjammers is due for a revival

In one of the more unexpected PSX 2016 reveals, Sony confirmed that Windjammers is coming to PS4 and PS Vita. The competitive flying disc game debuted on Neo Geo arcade machines in 1994. The PlayStation revival adds an online head-to-head mode but looks otherwise unchanged.

8. Crash Bandicoot is back and here's your first look

Sony confirmed at E3 2016 that Crash Bandicoot, Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back, and Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped were all due for HD makeovers in an upcoming collection. A new trailer revealed at PSX 2016 offers a first peek at how they're looking, as well as a new title: Crash Bandicoot: N-Sane Trilogy.

9. WipEout: Omega Collection revives a Sony classic

It's been four years and an entire console generation since the last WipEout game. That release — WipEout 2048 for PS Vita — along with WipEout HD and its Fury add-on are coming to PS4 in 2017 as the WipEout Omega Collection.

10. Parappa the Rapper is coming back (with friends)

PaRappa the Rapper is a cartoon rhythm game that debuted on the original PlayStation in 1997. It was rereleased in the mid-aughts for PlayStation Portable, but fans can look forward to a fully remastered 20th anniversary edition in 2017, with a demo available on PSN right now. As if that's not enough, Sony favorites LocoRoco and Patapon are also pegged for HD releases in the coming year.