Number of coastal drownings rise with men most at risk, accounting for 90 pc of deaths



Number of coastal drownings rise with men most at risk, accounting for 90 pc of deaths

Updated

The number of drownings in the Australian surf has surged over the past year, with data showing men now account for almost 90 per cent of deaths on the coast.

The National Coastal Safety Report revealed a 24 per cent increase in coastal deaths in Australia.

In the 12 months leading up to June, 130 people died in Australia's coastal waters — an increase from 105 deaths in the same period last year.

The report highlighted men aged between 25 and 29 were at greatest risk.

Key findings of the report: Medical conditions or injury accounted for largest amount of drownings at 29pc

Rip currents accounted for 14pc of drownings

Alcohol or drugs accounted for 17pc of drownings

37pc of drownings occurred at least 5km from a Surf Life Saving Club

30pc occurred during swimming or wading activities, 40pc happened during boating, rock fishing and watercraft activities

13pc of fishers and 51pc of boaters said they always wore a lifejacket

The national president of Surf Life Saving Australia, Graham Ford, said men in this age group were more likely to behave in a way that puts their life in danger.

"At that age group they probably think they are invincible with the mixture of alcohol and they're the ones getting in trouble and where they are getting in trouble is in the rips," he said.

Medical conditions or injury were the top reasons for the death toll, while rip currents, alcohol and drugs were also contributing factors.

Swimmers not listening to life savers

There were no fatalities recorded for anyone swimming between the flags at a patrolled beach.

New South Wales recorded 53 coastal drowning deaths, with 30 per cent of those occurring while victims were swimming or wading.

Victoria had the second-highest number of deaths at 22, with 36 per cent of those due to boating.

Queensland and Western Australia both recorded 20 fatalities, with 35 per cent of deaths attributed to swimming or wading and 40 per cent due to boating.

Mr Ford said many people were still not heeding the advice of life savers.

"The most alarming statistic to me is that only 44 per cent of people report that they usually swim at a patrol beach during patrol hours," he said.

"The research is demonstrating that people are ignoring the messages and that's of concern."

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called for greater public vigilance, pleading for people to remember to swim between the flags.

"You cannot take anything for granted," he told reporters gathered at Sydney's Bondi Beach.

"Complacency leads to tragedy, that's why we have to be alert all the time."

Surf Life Saving Australia has urged people to swim near a patrolled beach when possible, and to always wear a life jacket when boating and fishing.

Number of offshore deaths increasing

One of the most significant statistics was the number of offshore deaths related to boating, snorkelling and diving, which was up 113 per cent.

While nearly half of the drownings happened at beaches, 40 per cent of deaths involved boats.

Shane Daw, Surf Life Saving Australia's coastal risk and safety manager, said people taking to the water offshore needed to know the risks and be prepared.

"Knowing what your capabilities are, knowing what to take with you," he said.

"Have you got an action plan in place when you're boating? Are you wearing a life jacket?"

Surf Life Saving Australia has set a goal to halve the number of coastal drowning deaths by 2020.

ABC/AAP

Topics: death, community-and-society, accidents---other, maritime, australia

First posted