These Engineering Students From Manipal Are Building A Rocket That Will Take A Payload Of 4Kg To The Height Of 10 KM
These Engineering Students Are Building A Rocket To Take A 4 Kg Payload To The Height Of 10 KM
These Engineering Students From Manipal Are Building A Rocket That Will Take A Payload Of 4Kg To The Height Of 10 KM A year ago, when a group of likeminded students secured admission into the Manipal Institute of Technology, they got to know about the several student projects in Manipal. ThrustMIT is a team of 20 second-year students and recruitment is on for first year students from across all streams of engineering with the faculty advisor Srinivas G from the Aeronautical Engineering department. Sounding rockets are smaller rockets launched by ISRO, like Rohini series and are not like the large ones used to launch Chandrayaan. Amogh Govil, technical head of the team, said, sounding rockets are basically research oriented rockets, which carry a scientific payload 50-1500 kilometres above the surface of the earth. Altitude is generally between that of airplanes and satellites. Their small size allows them to be launched from temporary launch sites. He said, “thrustMIT is working on a sounding rocket which will be around 8 feet tall, attain an apogee of around 10,000 feet and carry a payload of at least 8.8 lbs (4 kgs). We will use a solid propellant for propulsion. We will be employing a flight computer on board our rocket to monitor the flight path.” Meanwhile, Surya stated, there is a prestigious competition held every year in the US. Experimental Sounding Rocket Association (ESRA) annually hosts an Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition (IREC) for rocket teams from around the world. With a payload size of 8.8 pounds and target altitudes of 10,000 ft. and 30,000 feet above ground level, rockets are typically 4 to 12 inches in diameter and 4 to 20 feet long. Multistage rockets and all chemical propulsion types (solid, liquid, and hybrid) are allowed. From 2017, the IREC will be the premiere event at the Spaceport America Cup (SA Cup). “The goal right now is to be successful in the 2018 competition. Though initially, we wanted to participate in the upcoming competition this summer, we finally decided against it as we wanted to be there fully prepared and have already started working in this direction,” he said.

A year ago, when a group of likeminded students secured admission into the Manipal Institute of Technology, they got to know about the several student projects in Manipal.

narlabs/representational image

ThrustMIT is a team of 20 second-year students and recruitment is on for first year students from across all streams of engineering with the faculty advisor Srinivas G from the Aeronautical Engineering department.

Sounding rockets are smaller rockets launched by ISRO, like Rohini series and are not like the large ones used to launch Chandrayaan.

bangaloremirror

Amogh Govil, technical head of the team, said, sounding rockets are basically research oriented rockets, which carry a scientific payload 50-1500 kilometres above the surface of the earth. Altitude is generally between that of airplanes and satellites. Their small size allows them to be launched from temporary launch sites.

He said, “thrustMIT is working on a sounding rocket which will be around 8 feet tall, attain an apogee of around 10,000 feet and carry a payload of at least 8.8 lbs (4 kgs). We will use a solid propellant for propulsion. We will be employing a flight computer on board our rocket to monitor the flight path.”

Meanwhile, Surya stated, there is a prestigious competition held every year in the US. Experimental Sounding Rocket Association (ESRA) annually hosts an Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition (IREC) for rocket teams from around the world. With a payload size of 8.8 pounds and target altitudes of 10,000 ft. and 30,000 feet above ground level, rockets are typically 4 to 12 inches in diameter and 4 to 20 feet long. Multistage rockets and all chemical propulsion types (solid, liquid, and hybrid) are allowed. From 2017, the IREC will be the premiere event at the Spaceport America Cup (SA Cup).

VisualMotion/representational image

“The goal right now is to be successful in the 2018 competition. Though initially, we wanted to participate in the upcoming competition this summer, we finally decided against it as we wanted to be there fully prepared and have already started working in this direction,” he said.