Shawn Mendes Performs 'Mercy' & 'Treat You Better' on 'Saturday Night Live'
Shawn Mendes Performs 'Mercy' & 'Treat You Better' on 'Saturday Night Live'
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Shawn Mendes Performs 'Mercy' & 'Treat You Better' on 'Saturday Night Live'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  While Emma Stone is a superstar of young Hollywood at age 28, her companion this weekend was even younger. Shawn Mendes made his debut at just age 18 on Saturday night, as the musical guest alongside host Stone. He started things off at the piano with "Mercy," the latest single from his second album , which debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 back in September. Blue and white lights lit the stage as Mendes made his way from behind the keys to center stage after the first chorus, earnestly emoting his way through the midtempo number.  For his second song, he chose "Treat You Better," the first single from . While his fans are very familiar with the song -- which hit the Billboard Hot 100 top 10 -- Mendes took some liberties with the melody and showed off some very elastic vocal skills. Watch both performances below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

While Emma Stone is a superstar of young Hollywood at age 28, her Saturday Night Live companion this weekend was even younger. Shawn Mendes made his SNL debut at just age 18 on Saturday night, as the musical guest alongside host Stone.

He started things off at the piano with "Mercy," the latest single from his second album Illuminate, which debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 back in September. Blue and white lights lit the stage as Mendes made his way from behind the keys to center stage after the first chorus, earnestly emoting his way through the midtempo number.

For his second song, he chose "Treat You Better," the first single from Illuminate. While his fans are very familiar with the song -- which hit the Billboard Hot 100 top 10 -- Mendes took some liberties with the melody and showed off some very elastic vocal skills.

Watch both performances below: