Buzz Aldrin: Altitude Sickness Forced South Pole Evacuation
Buzz Aldrin: Altitude Sickness Forced South Pole Evacuation
Shares                Buzz Aldrin said he was evacuated from the South Pole last week because he became short of breath and began showing signs of altitude sickness. The 86-year-old adventurer, who was the second man to walk on the moon, released details on Sunday of his dramatic medical evacuation from Antarctica. He is continuing to recuperate in a hospital in Christchurch, New Zealand . Because of the thick ice that blankets Antarctica, the South Pole sits at an elevation of 2,835 meters (9,300 feet). Aldrin said in a statement he still has some congestion in his lungs and so has been advised to rest in New Zealand until it clears up and to avoid the long flight back to the U.S. for now. Aldrin, his son Andrew and manager Christina Korp had been visiting Antarctica as tourists on a trip organized by the White Desert tour company. They left last Tuesday from South Africa . "South Pole here I come!" Aldrin wrote on Twitter at the time. He said the trip began well, and that he'd been planning to spend time with scientists who were studying what it would be like to live on Mars because the conditions in Antarctica were similar. "I had been having a great time with the group at White Desert's camp before we ventured further south," he said. "I started to feel a bit short of breath so the staff decided to check my vitals. After some examination they noticed congestion in my lungs and that my oxygen levels were low, which indicated symptoms of altitude sickness." Aldrin said he was put on the next flight, a ski-equipped LC-130 cargo plane that took him to McMurdo Station, a U.S. research center on the Antarctic coast. "Once I was at sea level I began to feel much better," he said. From there he was flown to Christchurch, where he arrived at 4:30 a.m. on Friday. His manager described the evacuation as "grueling." She posted a picture of Aldrin on his hospital bed, on oxygen and with an IV in his left arm. The following day he was looking upbeat as he welcomed NASA Deputy Administrator Dava Newman. Aldrin posted a photo of himself wearing pajamas and sitting up in bed with Newman by his side. Both were giving the thumbs-up sign. "I had a surprise visitor this morning. My longtime friend," Aldrin wrote. "She beat me to the South Pole by one day." Korp, his manager, wrote on Twitter that "Buzz is ok. Resting but flirting with all the nurses!" She said she'd told Aldrin he now holds the record as the oldest person to reach the South Pole, according to the National Science Foundation . "He'll be insufferable now," she wrote. Indeed, the achievement completes a remarkable list of extreme locations visited by Aldrin. In 1966, he spacewalked while in orbit. In 1969, he and Neil Armstrong became the first men to walk on the moon. In 1996, Aldrin voyaged to the bottom of the North Atlantic in a mini-submarine to view the Titanic. A couple of years later, he travelled to the Arctic aboard a Russian icebreaker. Aldrin is now focusing on getting back to his home in Satellite Beach, Florida, which is not far from Cape Canaveral and its launch pads. But he's eyeing more distant horizons. "I'm looking forward to getting home soon to spend Christmas with my family and to continue my quest for . a permanent settlement on Mars," he said in his statement. "You ain't seen nothing yet!" ——— Online: Buzz Aldrin: http://buzzaldrin.com/  Shares                  Buzz Aldrin: Altitude Sickness Forced South Pole Evacuation   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   Arctic's Year of Crazy Extremes as Warming Hits Overdrive   Tech Leaders Couldn't Beat Trump; They'll Meet Him Instead   Google's Self-Driving Car Project Gets a New Name: Waymo   Google, Cuba Sign Deal Allowing Fast Access to Company Data   Chinese Treated to Clear Views of Another Supermoon   Christmas Delivery at Space Station, Courtesy of Japan   Google, Cuba Sign Deal Allowing Faster Access to Company's Data   Concrete Pumped Into Sinkhole on Eroded California Cliff   Scientists Say Reindeer May Be Shrinking Due to Warming   How a Single Senate Republican Could Tank Tillerson's Nomination   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   LeBron James 'Humbled' by SI Sportsperson of the Year Award   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms

Buzz Aldrin said he was evacuated from the South Pole last week because he became short of breath and began showing signs of altitude sickness.

The 86-year-old adventurer, who was the second man to walk on the moon, released details on Sunday of his dramatic medical evacuation from Antarctica. He is continuing to recuperate in a hospital in Christchurch, New Zealand.

Because of the thick ice that blankets Antarctica, the South Pole sits at an elevation of 2,835 meters (9,300 feet).

Aldrin said in a statement he still has some congestion in his lungs and so has been advised to rest in New Zealand until it clears up and to avoid the long flight back to the U.S. for now.

Aldrin, his son Andrew and manager Christina Korp had been visiting Antarctica as tourists on a trip organized by the White Desert tour company. They left last Tuesday from South Africa. "South Pole here I come!" Aldrin wrote on Twitter at the time.

He said the trip began well, and that he'd been planning to spend time with scientists who were studying what it would be like to live on Mars because the conditions in Antarctica were similar.

"I had been having a great time with the group at White Desert's camp before we ventured further south," he said.

"I started to feel a bit short of breath so the staff decided to check my vitals. After some examination they noticed congestion in my lungs and that my oxygen levels were low, which indicated symptoms of altitude sickness."

Aldrin said he was put on the next flight, a ski-equipped LC-130 cargo plane that took him to McMurdo Station, a U.S. research center on the Antarctic coast. "Once I was at sea level I began to feel much better," he said.

From there he was flown to Christchurch, where he arrived at 4:30 a.m. on Friday. His manager described the evacuation as "grueling." She posted a picture of Aldrin on his hospital bed, on oxygen and with an IV in his left arm.

The following day he was looking upbeat as he welcomed NASA Deputy Administrator Dava Newman.

Aldrin posted a photo of himself wearing pajamas and sitting up in bed with Newman by his side. Both were giving the thumbs-up sign.

"I had a surprise visitor this morning. My longtime friend," Aldrin wrote. "She beat me to the South Pole by one day."

Korp, his manager, wrote on Twitter that "Buzz is ok. Resting but flirting with all the nurses!"

She said she'd told Aldrin he now holds the record as the oldest person to reach the South Pole, according to the National Science Foundation.

"He'll be insufferable now," she wrote.

Indeed, the achievement completes a remarkable list of extreme locations visited by Aldrin. In 1966, he spacewalked while in orbit. In 1969, he and Neil Armstrong became the first men to walk on the moon.

In 1996, Aldrin voyaged to the bottom of the North Atlantic in a mini-submarine to view the Titanic. A couple of years later, he travelled to the Arctic aboard a Russian icebreaker.

Aldrin is now focusing on getting back to his home in Satellite Beach, Florida, which is not far from Cape Canaveral and its launch pads. But he's eyeing more distant horizons.

"I'm looking forward to getting home soon to spend Christmas with my family and to continue my quest for . a permanent settlement on Mars," he said in his statement. "You ain't seen nothing yet!"

———

Online:

Buzz Aldrin: http://buzzaldrin.com/