Someone Literally Paid A Public Toilet In Madurai With A Rs 5 Cheque And It's Not Even Funny
Someone Literally Paid A Public Toilet In Madurai With A Rs 5 Cheque And It's Not Even Funny
Someone Literally Paid A Public Toilet In Madurai With A Rs 5 Cheque And It's Not Even Funny The demonetization has literally got us running in circles for money. Forget about luxury, people don't have enough cash to commute, buy condiments, or meet their daily requirements. (Also read: Demonetisation Crashes Veggie Wholesale Rates, But Only City Dwellers Cheap Prices ) Within minutes, the image went viral with thousands of people exchanging their POVs about writing a cheque worth INR 5. #1 #2 #3 #4 Go Cashless! Pay by cheque even if you go to public toilet. Be the change you want to see! pic.twitter.com/EUruygojiv But for what it's worth, it is not even funny that the situation has gone this far. With so much in the banks and nothing in our pockets, the 'common man' is forced to take such steps. And somehow, it is only the bottom of the pyramid that's suffering the most. Only 15.1% of India's total population use the internet, 43% of the total bank accounts stand dormant and with more than 83.3 crore living in rural areas, how promptly are we going to fight this? (Also read: Demonetisation Hasn't Only Put Indian In Queues, Foreign Tourists Are Also Facing Trouble )

The demonetization has literally got us running in circles for money. Forget about luxury, people don't have enough cash to commute, buy condiments, or meet their daily requirements.

(Also read: Demonetisation Crashes Veggie Wholesale Rates, But Only City Dwellers Cheap Prices)

In the midst of all this mess, someone in Madurai used a public toilet and wrote a ₹5 cheque to the ‘Public Toilet Madurai’.





Within minutes, the image went viral with thousands of people exchanging their POVs about writing a cheque worth INR 5.

#1

#2

#3

#4

Go Cashless! Pay by cheque even if you go to public toilet. Be the change you want to see! pic.twitter.com/EUruygojiv — Ritika Jain (@ritikajain01) December 1, 2016

But for what it's worth, it is not even funny that the situation has gone this far. With so much in the banks and nothing in our pockets, the 'common man' is forced to take such steps.

And somehow, it is only the bottom of the pyramid that's suffering the most. Only 15.1% of India's total population use the internet, 43% of the total bank accounts stand dormant and with more than 83.3 crore living in rural areas, how promptly are we going to fight this?

(Also read: Demonetisation Hasn't Only Put Indian In Queues, Foreign Tourists Are Also Facing Trouble)