This woman was born with no vagina. She hopes to have children
This woman was born with no vagina. She hopes to have children


Twenty-three year old Devan Merck was born with Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome.

She didn't have a vaginal hole or a cervix, and her “unicornuate uterus” was not fully formed, which would later render it impossible for her to carry a baby to term.

At the age of 12, Merck had her uterus removed through a hysterectomy, and a year later she underwent reconstructive surgery.

They had to make a vaginal opening for me so that I can have intercourse.

She said living with the condition was hard when she was younger, and she struggled to develop relationships - especially romantic ones.

I was scared to open up. I was scared of what they were going to do and say. I do have scars. When it came to sex, I couldn’t have sex so it was difficult to have a boyfriend that was okay with that. Definitely ended some relationships pretty quick.

Five years ago, at the age of 18, she married her husband, Trent.

The first time I saw her I was stunned. She is the most kind, loving person I have ever met… I’m very proud of Devan, I know this condition is really difficult.

Picture: Barcroft TV/YouTube/screengrab

The pair had been trying to have a baby for four years - to no avail - and after two failed adoption attempts, they decided surrogacy was the best way.

Her husband says Devan shouln't feel guilty because of her inability to carry a child:

I don’t hold it against her – ever. No matter what I still love her.

Both of Devan’s ovaries are intact, which means she can harvest her eggs, and a friend offered to carry the baby.

Picture: Barcroft TV/YouTube/screengrab

My hope for the future is to finally have a family. Finally have a baby in my arms. I’m so ready.

You can follow Devan's story on Barcroft TV.

More: Mother makes incredible meme after her daughter asks her if she can stay out

More: I am the woman in this picture and this is what it was like