Relatives of missing Flight MH370 passengers fly to Madagascar to 'take search into own hands'
Relatives of missing Flight MH370 passengers fly to Madagascar to 'take search into own hands'
The relatives of passengers aboard the Malaysia Airlines flight that went missing more than two years ago have travelled to Madagascar to take the search into their own hands. Flight MH370 disappeared with 239 passengers and crew after leaving Kuala Lumpur en route to Beijing on 8 March 2014. So far just 20 pieces of debris have been found, but no major wreckage from the plane has been discovered. A search for the wreckage in the south Indian Ocean entered its 1000th day on Saturday. Read more ‘No one at controls’ of MH370 when plane crashed, investigators say MH370 search ship probes possible man-made ‘sonar contacts' Debris found in Mauritius part of missing MH370 MH370 experts question 'fire damage' evidence on Madagascar debris "It has fallen into our hands to take this search upon ourselves," said Grace Subathirai Nathan, a spokeswoman for the Members of Voice 370, an MH370 next-of-kin support group, after arriving in Madagascar. "After repeated requests for mobilisation of a search along the east African coastline, nothing has been done to date. "We want to speak to as many people as we can. We want to especially speak to NGOs, to the missionaries, to the churches who have outreach programmes. "We can talk to people who work as fishermen, people who live on the coastline. We hope that we can raise awareness, teach them how to identify debris, how to collect debris, what to do with it when they find it.” MH370 debris - in pictures               MH370 debris - in pictures    MH370 debris   French police officers carry a piece of debris from a plane in Saint-Andre, Reunion Island.   AP     MH370 debris   Police carry a piece of debris from an unidentified aircraft found in the coastal area of Saint-Andre de la Reunion, in the east of the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion   AFP PHOTO / YANNICK PITOUYANNICK PITOU/AFP/Getty Images     MH370 debris   The plane part is being taken to France for further investigation   Reuters     MH370 debris   French gendarmes and police inspect a large piece of plane debris which was found on the beach in Saint-Andre, on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion   Reuters     MH370 debris   French gendarmes and police inspect a large piece of plane debris which was found on the beach in Saint-Andre, on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion   Reuters     MH370 debris   Johnny Begue, a member of a local shore cleaning association, in Saint-Andre, French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion, holds the remain of a suitcase found the day before on the same site   Getty Images     MH370 debris   Searches continued on Friday for other possible MH370 debris along beaches on the island of Réunion   AP  Ms Nathan, whose mother was on the plane, was among four Malaysians, two Chinese nationals and a Frenchman who arrived in Madagascar on Saturday to hunt for debris and raise awareness of the plane among local communities. They plan to distribute brochures educating local people on how to identify plane debris. Three pieces of debris found on the beaches of Mauritius, Tanzania and the French island of Reunion, have been confirmed to be from MH370. Investigators are examining several other pieces found in Mozambique and South Africa. The group hopes the trip will encourage the Malaysian, Chinese and Australian governments to collect debris along the continental coast where parts from the air craft have been found. The search is expected to be suspended by the end of the year, when an Australian-led team completes its scouring of a 120,000-sq-km target area. "We need to know what happened to this plane and what happened to the people that we love," Ms Nathan said. Last month, new information published in a report supported the investigators’ long-held theory that pilots were not at the controls of the Boeing 777 when it ran out of fuel. The report, from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said the plane’s flaps were not extended when it crashed, ruling out a controlled descent. Data from the final communications with the aircraft was “consistent with the aircraft being in a high and increasing rate of descent at that time,” the report says. This scenario means the plane would have plummeted at high speed into the Indian Ocean. More about: Madagascar Grace Subathirai Nathan MH370 Comments

The relatives of passengers aboard the Malaysia Airlines flight that went missing more than two years ago have travelled to Madagascar to take the search into their own hands.

Flight MH370 disappeared with 239 passengers and crew after leaving Kuala Lumpur en route to Beijing on 8 March 2014.

So far just 20 pieces of debris have been found, but no major wreckage from the plane has been discovered.

A search for the wreckage in the south Indian Ocean entered its 1000th day on Saturday.

"It has fallen into our hands to take this search upon ourselves," said Grace Subathirai Nathan, a spokeswoman for the Members of Voice 370, an MH370 next-of-kin support group, after arriving in Madagascar.

"After repeated requests for mobilisation of a search along the east African coastline, nothing has been done to date.

"We want to speak to as many people as we can. We want to especially speak to NGOs, to the missionaries, to the churches who have outreach programmes.

"We can talk to people who work as fishermen, people who live on the coastline. We hope that we can raise awareness, teach them how to identify debris, how to collect debris, what to do with it when they find it.”

MH370 debris - in pictures







7 show all MH370 debris - in pictures











1/7 MH370 debris French police officers carry a piece of debris from a plane in Saint-Andre, Reunion Island. AP

2/7 MH370 debris Police carry a piece of debris from an unidentified aircraft found in the coastal area of Saint-Andre de la Reunion, in the east of the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion AFP PHOTO / YANNICK PITOUYANNICK PITOU/AFP/Getty Images

3/7 MH370 debris The plane part is being taken to France for further investigation Reuters

4/7 MH370 debris French gendarmes and police inspect a large piece of plane debris which was found on the beach in Saint-Andre, on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion Reuters

5/7 MH370 debris French gendarmes and police inspect a large piece of plane debris which was found on the beach in Saint-Andre, on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion Reuters

6/7 MH370 debris Johnny Begue, a member of a local shore cleaning association, in Saint-Andre, French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion, holds the remain of a suitcase found the day before on the same site Getty Images

7/7 MH370 debris Searches continued on Friday for other possible MH370 debris along beaches on the island of Réunion AP

Ms Nathan, whose mother was on the plane, was among four Malaysians, two Chinese nationals and a Frenchman who arrived in Madagascar on Saturday to hunt for debris and raise awareness of the plane among local communities.

They plan to distribute brochures educating local people on how to identify plane debris.

Three pieces of debris found on the beaches of Mauritius, Tanzania and the French island of Reunion, have been confirmed to be from MH370.

Investigators are examining several other pieces found in Mozambique and South Africa.

The group hopes the trip will encourage the Malaysian, Chinese and Australian governments to collect debris along the continental coast where parts from the air craft have been found.

MH370 next-of-kin, Grace Subathirai Nathan of Malaysia (C) and Jiang Hui (L) and Bai Shuan Fu (R) from China attend a press conference at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Malaysia (EPA)

The search is expected to be suspended by the end of the year, when an Australian-led team completes its scouring of a 120,000-sq-km target area.

"We need to know what happened to this plane and what happened to the people that we love," Ms Nathan said.

Last month, new information published in a report supported the investigators’ long-held theory that pilots were not at the controls of the Boeing 777 when it ran out of fuel.

The report, from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said the plane’s flaps were not extended when it crashed, ruling out a controlled descent.

Data from the final communications with the aircraft was “consistent with the aircraft being in a high and increasing rate of descent at that time,” the report says.

This scenario means the plane would have plummeted at high speed into the Indian Ocean.

Additional reporting by agencies