Donald Trump Blasts 'Totally Biased' 'SNL' On Twitter For 3rd Time
Donald Trump Blasts 'Totally Biased' 'SNL' On Twitter For 3rd Time
Just change the channel already. President-elect Donald Trump has once again tweeted how angry he is about Alec Baldwin’s portrayal of him on “ Saturday Night Live .” Following this weekend’s episode, Trump didn’t waste any time in blasting the show as “unwatchable,” “totally biased” and “not funny” ― while saying Baldwin’s impersonation “just can’t get any worse.” Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse. Sad Here’s how the clearly thicker-skinned Baldwin replied: ... @realDonaldTrump  Release your tax returns and I'll stop. Ha This week’s cold-open skit centered around the Trump character retweeting random people, including a high school student, during what should have been an important security briefing. “There is a reason actually that Donald tweets so much,” said Kate McKinnon , who was playing Trump campaign manager and top aide Kellyanne Conway . “He does it to distract the media from his business conflicts and all the very scary people in his Cabinet.” To which Baldwin-as-Trump replied: “Actually, that’s not why I do it. I do it because my brain is bad.” Trump’s chief strategist Steve Bannon even made an appearance, as the Grim Reaper. he previous month, while he was still on the campaign trail, he said it was “ boring and unfunny ” and called for it to be scrapped ― conveniently forgetting he actually hosted the show in November 2015. Check out the clip above. Related Coverage  Lego Donald Trump Makes Christmas Anything But Great Again   Matthew Broderick Has His Donald Trump Impression Locked Down   Trump's Presidential Texting Powers Terrify Stephen Colbert   Woman Sees Screaming Face Of 'Trump' Inside Red Pepper  ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Just change the channel already.

President-elect Donald Trump has once again tweeted how angry he is about Alec Baldwin’s portrayal of him on “Saturday Night Live.”

Following this weekend’s episode, Trump didn’t waste any time in blasting the show as “unwatchable,” “totally biased” and “not funny” ― while saying Baldwin’s impersonation “just can’t get any worse.”

Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse. Sad — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016

Here’s how the clearly thicker-skinned Baldwin replied:

...@realDonaldTrump



Release your tax returns and I'll stop.

Ha — ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) December 4, 2016

This week’s cold-open skit centered around the Trump character retweeting random people, including a high school student, during what should have been an important security briefing.

“There is a reason actually that Donald tweets so much,” said Kate McKinnon, who was playing Trump campaign manager and top aide Kellyanne Conway. “He does it to distract the media from his business conflicts and all the very scary people in his Cabinet.”

To which Baldwin-as-Trump replied: “Actually, that’s not why I do it. I do it because my brain is bad.” Trump’s chief strategist Steve Bannon even made an appearance, as the Grim Reaper.

In November, Trump petulantly dubbed the show “totally one-sided” and “biased.” The previous month, while he was still on the campaign trail, he said it was “boring and unfunny” and called for it to be scrapped ― conveniently forgetting he actually hosted the show in November 2015.