Penn State rallies to top Wisconsin in Big Ten championship
Was Penn State's explosive comeback enough for playoff bid?
Was Penn State's explosive comeback enough for playoff bid? Season review: Michigan State tumbles to Big Ten's basement Season review: Michigan lands just short of championship opportunity Foster Farms Bowl early look: Utah vs. Indiana Season review: Maryland's season still a success despite late struggles Season review: Iowa's late surge helps soothe midseason struggles Season review: Coaching change complicates outlook for Indiana Pinstripe Bowl early look: Pitt vs. Northwestern National Funding Holiday Bowl early look: Minnesota vs. Washington State Season review: Illinois struggles with consistency in Lovie Smith's first year Quick Lane Bowl early look: Maryland vs. Boston College Business as usual as Ohio State readies to replace another coordinator Best quotes of the Big Ten season Quick Lane Bowl early look: Maryland vs. Boston College Heisman Trophy: The statistical case for the finalists National Funding Holiday Bowl early look: Minnesota vs. Washington State Heather Dinich joins SportsCenter and breaks down how the selection committee handles Penn State winning the Big Ten title. (1:32) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com Big Ten reporter. Joined ESPN.com in 2008. Graduate of the University of Kentucky. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment INDIANAPOLIS --- When Wisconsin's Dare Ogunbowale rumbled into the end zone for a 28-7 lead in the second quarter, it looked like the Big Ten championship game could turn into a rout. The No. 6 Badgers were dominating in the trenches, and Penn State coach James Franklin was so desperate to generate some offense that he twice went for it on fourth down near midfield in the first half -- and failed both times. But in a season that itself qualified as a remarkable comeback, the Nittany Lions had one magical run left, triggered by a lethal passing attack unlike anything this event had ever seen. Quarterback Trace McSorley set a league championship record with 384 passing yards and four touchdowns, as No. 7 Penn State clinched one of the most unlikely Big Ten titles of all time with a 38-31 victory . From the end of the first half until early in the fourth quarter, McSorley completed all nine of his throws for 241 yards and three scores. For the game, he averaged 17.5 yards on his 22 completions in 31 attempts. This came against a Badgers defense that entered the game leading the FBS in interceptions and ranked fifth nationally in pass-efficiency defense. They had allowed only eight passing touchdowns all season, and they hadn't given up more than 23 points in regulation of any game. But the Nittany Lions -- while many questioned if they were deserving of representing the Big Ten East Division over Ohio State and Michigan --- shockingly developed into the Big Ten's most explosive offense this year under first-year coordinator Joe Moorhead. Over their final five games heading into Indianapolis, they averaged 46.4 points per game. Penn State ended the season with nine straight victories and now wears the crown of the nation's best conference. But it still probably won't be enough to earn a playoff spot. Saturday's triumph was only the team's second victory over a ranked opponent this year, though a twin killing of No. 2 Ohio State and Wisconsin is pretty strong. With Washington and Clemson avoiding upsets this weekend, however, the odds of the Nittany Lions jumping three spots into the playoff field seem remote. Penn State will likely have to settle for a decent consolation prize: the program's first trip to the Rose Bowl since the 2008 season. Penn State lost to USC in that game and might just see the Trojans again in Pasadena. Whomever the Nittany Lions play will have a tough time dealing with McSorley, especially if his receivers are catching everything in their paths, as they did at Lucas Oil Stadium. DaeSean Hamilton (eight catches for 118 yards) and Saeed Blacknall (six for 155) both went for more than 100 yards receiving. At one point, a helpless Wisconsin defensive back grabbed and held Hamilton, only to see him still make the catch. Tight end Mike Gesicki also made a leaping grab in the end zone early in the game. McSorley threw only two interceptions over his final nine games, both against Indiana. He and backfield mate Saquon Barkley -- the Big Ten offensive player of the year who caught the go-ahead score --- are both sophomores, which means the league will have to deal with them for at least one more season. Also give credit to the Penn State offensive line. Ripped through early by T.J. Watt and other Badgers pass-rushers, it regrouped to give McSorley enough time in the pocket to find his receivers downfield. The defense also did its job after a shaky start. Wisconsin drove the ball inside the Penn State 30-yard line in the final two minutes, but Grant Haley stuffed Corey Clement for no gain on fourth-and-1 to basically seal the outcome. Unlike last week in Columbus, there was no controversy about this fourth-down spot. Speaking of Columbus, Ohio State is probably safely in the playoff, while the one team that beat them, the Big Ten champion, is probably not in. There was no hint of sadness from the large Penn State fan contingent in Indianapolis about this predicament. They were just happy to witness one of the best comeback seasons in recent memory. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

INDIANAPOLIS --- When Wisconsin's Dare Ogunbowale rumbled into the end zone for a 28-7 lead in the second quarter, it looked like the Big Ten championship game could turn into a rout.

The No. 6 Badgers were dominating in the trenches, and Penn State coach James Franklin was so desperate to generate some offense that he twice went for it on fourth down near midfield in the first half -- and failed both times. But in a season that itself qualified as a remarkable comeback, the Nittany Lions had one magical run left, triggered by a lethal passing attack unlike anything this event had ever seen.

ALSO SEE Who will be in, and who will be out of the College Football Playoff? Check out the latest projections.

Playoff tracker » • Bowl schedule

Quarterback Trace McSorley set a league championship record with 384 passing yards and four touchdowns, as No. 7 Penn State clinched one of the most unlikely Big Ten titles of all time with a 38-31 victory. From the end of the first half until early in the fourth quarter, McSorley completed all nine of his throws for 241 yards and three scores. For the game, he averaged 17.5 yards on his 22 completions in 31 attempts.

This came against a Badgers defense that entered the game leading the FBS in interceptions and ranked fifth nationally in pass-efficiency defense. They had allowed only eight passing touchdowns all season, and they hadn't given up more than 23 points in regulation of any game.

But the Nittany Lions -- while many questioned if they were deserving of representing the Big Ten East Division over Ohio State and Michigan --- shockingly developed into the Big Ten's most explosive offense this year under first-year coordinator Joe Moorhead. Over their final five games heading into Indianapolis, they averaged 46.4 points per game.

Saeed Blacknall caught two of Trace McSorley's four touchdown passes as No. 7 Penn State rallied to beat No. 6 Wisconsin in the Big Ten title game. AP Photo/AJ Mast

Penn State ended the season with nine straight victories and now wears the crown of the nation's best conference. But it still probably won't be enough to earn a playoff spot.

Saturday's triumph was only the team's second victory over a ranked opponent this year, though a twin killing of No. 2 Ohio State and Wisconsin is pretty strong. With Washington and Clemson avoiding upsets this weekend, however, the odds of the Nittany Lions jumping three spots into the playoff field seem remote. Penn State will likely have to settle for a decent consolation prize: the program's first trip to the Rose Bowl since the 2008 season.

Pick the winner of all 42 bowl games this year in ESPN's Capital One Bowl Mania game and win $1,000,000! Play Now for Free!

Penn State lost to USC in that game and might just see the Trojans again in Pasadena. Whomever the Nittany Lions play will have a tough time dealing with McSorley, especially if his receivers are catching everything in their paths, as they did at Lucas Oil Stadium.

DaeSean Hamilton (eight catches for 118 yards) and Saeed Blacknall (six for 155) both went for more than 100 yards receiving. At one point, a helpless Wisconsin defensive back grabbed and held Hamilton, only to see him still make the catch. Tight end Mike Gesicki also made a leaping grab in the end zone early in the game.

McSorley threw only two interceptions over his final nine games, both against Indiana. He and backfield mate Saquon Barkley -- the Big Ten offensive player of the year who caught the go-ahead score --- are both sophomores, which means the league will have to deal with them for at least one more season.

Also give credit to the Penn State offensive line. Ripped through early by T.J. Watt and other Badgers pass-rushers, it regrouped to give McSorley enough time in the pocket to find his receivers downfield.

The defense also did its job after a shaky start. Wisconsin drove the ball inside the Penn State 30-yard line in the final two minutes, but Grant Haley stuffed Corey Clement for no gain on fourth-and-1 to basically seal the outcome. Unlike last week in Columbus, there was no controversy about this fourth-down spot.

Speaking of Columbus, Ohio State is probably safely in the playoff, while the one team that beat them, the Big Ten champion, is probably not in. There was no hint of sadness from the large Penn State fan contingent in Indianapolis about this predicament. They were just happy to witness one of the best comeback seasons in recent memory.