This week in finance: No change at RBA while the economy may have shrunk



This week in finance: No change at RBA while the economy may have shrunk

Updated

The big questions for the week are whether Australia's famed multi-speed economy has found another gear — namely reverse — and whether the Reserve Bank will move out of neutral.

With some important data still to come in, the possibility of GDP either inching forward or backwards remains evenly balanced, while there is little chance the RBA of moving at all.

The local market looks like enjoying a fairly positive start with futures trading over the weekend pointing to a 0.4 per cent rise despite a lacklustre Friday session on Wall Street and across Europe.



Markets on Friday's close: ASX SPI 200 futures +0.4pc at 5,465

AUD: 74.60 US cents, 69.89 euro cents, 58.58 British pence, 84.65 Japanese yen, $NZ1.04

US: Dow Jones -0.1pc at 19,170 S&P500 flat at 2,192 NASDAQ +0.1pc at 4,739

Europe: FTSE -0.3pc at 6,731 DAX -0.2pc at 10,513 Eurostoxx50 -0.5pc at 3,015

Commodities: Brent oil +1pc at $US54.46/barrel, Gold flat at $US1,176/ounce, Iron ore -0.7pc at $US78.40/tonne

The US brushed off another robust payroll figure — 178,000 new jobs created and unemployment taking large step down to 4.6 per cent— because as far as the market is concerned a rate hike from the Fed on December 14 is already a certainty.

There was one blemish in otherwise solid set of numbers: wage growth shrunk for the first time in two years, but that was assessed as a statistical outlier.

Over the week there was a general loss of momentum in equities. The US was down around 0.8 per cent — the first fall since the presidential election — and Australia fell 1.2 per cent as some handy profits were removed from the table.

Oil jumps, but how far?

Oil was the obvious winner for the week with four-month Brent futures jumping 15 per cent after OPEC — and a couple of non-OPEC (mainly Russia) nations — agreed to remove up to 1.8 million barrels per day's production from the flooded market.

Sceptics might note that prior to the deal Russia cranked up production to a new record in November, which will be used as the baseline for its 300,000-barrel-a-day pledge to the overall cut.

Over in US the Baker Hughes rig count rose for the seventh consecutive month, with 477 rigs at work — the most since January but still around 70 fewer than this time last year.

Still a trend is a trend, and the impact of higher oil prices bringing US production back online since the sub-$US30/barrel prices in February is unmistakeable and will, to some extent, offset the OPEC deal.

Given that — and how notoriously unreliable production ceilings have been in the past — it probably limits a rise in the oil price to around $US55 or $US60 a barrel, or perhaps 5 cents a litre extra when filling up.

GDP to shrink — yes, no, maybe

With a number of third-quarter (Q3) GDP building blocks still to be put in place, the possibility of an economic contraction is evenly balanced when the figure drops (Wednesday).

As a random sample, the NAB is forecasting a 0.2 per cent contraction over the quarter, Citi a 0.3 per cent expansion and the ANZ tips a flat result following a moderate Q2 (+0.5 per cent) and a strong Q1 (+1 per cent).

The NAB's numbers point to a dramatically slower annual rate of growth from the 3.3 per cent it was rattling along at the end of June to a far more pedestrian 2.1 per cent.

It would also be pretty disappointing for the Reserve Bank, which forecasts pencil in something much closer to 3 per cent than 2 about now.

"The expenditure measure of GDP is looking particularly weak with partial data pointing to a broad-based decline in business investment, a surprise contraction in dwelling investment and a subtraction from net exports," NAB's Alan Oster said.

"Household consumption growth is expected to be subdued, with particular weakness in retail trade. There is also downside risk to our forecast for public demand."

While being relatively bullish compared to the NAB, Citi's Paul Brennan is not getting carried away.

"Importantly, the composition of growth looks relatively unbalanced, with weak private domestic demand, some growth in public sector spending and continued growth in export volumes that could produce a flat GDP result," Mr Brennan argued.

"More positively, income growth probably picked up in Q3, helped by the rise in the terms of trade, although this was mainly captured in higher profits and not employee compensation."

ANZ's Felicity Emmett's "flat" forecast comes with the caveat that some volatile and difficult-to-predict figures such as government spending and inventories are still to be released.

Ms Emmett said while there was broad-based weakness in the GDP make-up, it may be short lived.

"The drag from mining investment is already beginning to abate, and the outlook for non-mining business investment appears to be gradually improving, with non-mining building approvals trending sharply higher over recent months," she said.

Data deluge on the way

The flood of new data starts with the GDP partials of quarterly company profits and inventories (Monday).

Company profits are expected to be up another solid 3 per cent, after a strong 6.9 per cent in Q2 thanks to a rebound in mining revenue.

Net exports (Tuesday) are tipped to be flat, with stronger shipment volumes balanced by imports, while the current account (Tuesday) is expected to narrow markedly due to an improvement in the trade deficit in the past few months.

October's trade balance (Thursday) may come close to at last breaking even on the back of surging coal and iron ore prices. Any deficit will certainly be a lot narrower than September's $1.2 billion and the more than $2 billion monthly average for most of this year.

Housing finance (Friday) may pull back after last month's increase but the interest is likely to be whether investor lending has increased again.

RBA to leave rates on hold

Around this time last year, the then RBA governor Glenn Stevens told the market to "chill out" until February.

The message from the final board meeting (Tuesday) may be couched in different terms, but the message will be the same: "Take a break, nothing is going to happen for a couple of months at least."

The rate-setting meeting will be held before the GDP number pops out, but a series of key note speeches from senior officials — including the new governor Philip Lowe — have talked down the likelihood of a cut any time soon and talked up the positive effects of better commodity prices.

The market — before packing the towel and heading to the beach — will be looking to see if there is any toughening of the "growth appeared to have moderated" phrase in the governor's post-meeting statement.

ECB meets and China trade

There might be a bit more action at the European Central Bank meeting, but not that much.

The ECB is expected to announce a six-month extension to its bond-buying program and perhaps some tinkering with the deposit rate floor without actually lowering it.

Inflation has edged up in recent months and higher energy prices will have an impact too, but the overall message may be to chill out as well — or something more apt for the European winter.

Chinese trade (Thursday) is expected to continue to be weak with forecasts falls of 5 per cent for exports and 2 per cent for imports in US dollar terms.

Given the slide of renminbi against the greenback, in local currency terms things will not look as bad.

Diary notes

Australia Monday 5/12/2016 Business indicators

Q3: Profits, wages & inventories

Job ads Nov: ANZ series Inflation gauge Nov: TD-MI series Tuesday 6/12/2016 RBA rate decision

Q3: Another big deficit around $16b Current account Wednesday 7/12/2016 Construction index

Q3: Flat, could be negative TPG AGM Nov: Contracted last month Thursday 8/12/2016 Trade balance

Oct: May blow out again towards $2b deficit

Business confidence

Nov: More optimistic than pessimistic Santos investor day

Insights in plans and comments on oil price Ten Network AGM Another tough year for Ten investors Friday 9/12/2016 Home loans

Oct: investor lending the focus

Westpac AGM Banks behaving badly may be a topic for discussion

Overseas Monday 5/12/2016 US: Trade balance

Oct: A $US40b deficit forecast

US: ISM surveys Nov: Measures on non-factory activity EU: Retail sales Oct: Could fall again Tuesday 6/12/2016 EU: GDP Q3: Growing around 1.6pc YoY Wednesday 7/12/2016 US: Oil stocks

Weekly figure, may rebound

US: Job openings Oct CH: Foreign exchange Nov: Falling FX reserves a worry UK: Industrial production Oct: Should bounce back from previous fall Thursday 8/12/2016 CH: Trade balance

Nov: Exports and imports have been falling

EU: ECB rates decision Hold at zero JP: GDP Q3: Growing around 2.2pc YoY Friday 9/12/2016 CH: Inflation

Nov: Around 2.1pc YoY

US: Rig count Dec: Baker Hughes series, creeping up again

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, oil-and-gas, industry, banking, australia

First posted