Paris, Madrid Among Leading Capital Cities That Agree To Ban Diesel Vehicles By 2025
Paris, Madrid Among Leading Capital Cities That Agree To Ban Diesel Vehicles By 2025
Paris, Madrid Among Leading Capital Cities That Agree To Ban Diesel Vehicles By 2025 Some leading capitals cities in the world are going to ban diesel vehicles from their cities by 2025. Mexico City is the latest to join the list which includes Paris, Athens and Madrid. The agreement was made at the C40 Mayors Summit in Mexico City on Thursday and according to a statement released the ban will reduce air pollution and health issues in those cities. Instead Mayors of respective cities will encourage citizens to cycle and use other alternative modes of transportation. Anne Hidalgo, Paris Mayor, said, “It’s a worldwide public health concern.” Miguel Angel Mancera, Mexico City Mayor, said the city’s diesel buses will be replaced with alternative systems and buses operating as part of the bus rapid transport will be replaced with hybrids. The city will also soon have its first electric corridor. Leaders from major cities across the world are meeting in Mexico City this week to exchange ideas and discuss how to move towards a sustainable environment by reducing carbon emissions.

Some leading capitals cities in the world are going to ban diesel vehicles from their cities by 2025. Mexico City is the latest to join the list which includes Paris, Athens and Madrid.

Reuters

The agreement was made at the C40 Mayors Summit in Mexico City on Thursday and according to a statement released the ban will reduce air pollution and health issues in those cities.

Instead Mayors of respective cities will encourage citizens to cycle and use other alternative modes of transportation.

Anne Hidalgo, Paris Mayor, said, “It’s a worldwide public health concern.”

Miguel Angel Mancera, Mexico City Mayor, said the city’s diesel buses will be replaced with alternative systems and buses operating as part of the bus rapid transport will be replaced with hybrids. The city will also soon have its first electric corridor.

Pollution

Leaders from major cities across the world are meeting in Mexico City this week to exchange ideas and discuss how to move towards a sustainable environment by reducing carbon emissions.