25 Amazingly Cool Gadget Gifts You May Want To Keep For Yourself
25 Amazingly Cool Gadget Gifts You May Want To Keep For Yourself
A smart scale that will help you bake a recipe perfectly every time. No measuring needed! Just pour the ingredients in and the app will tell you when to stop. Works with iOS and Android. Get one on Amazon for $50 . An inconspicuous ring to alert you when you get a text (and notify you when you’ve walked too far from your phone). Get one from Ringly for $195 . Not convinced? Take a look at our review of it here . A tiny printer that can make your photos come to life. It doesn’t use ink cartridges either — that’s some sorcery. Get one from Lifeprint for $129 . A flexible tablet stand to hold the screen at jussssttt the right angle. Get on on Amazon for $40 .  Tear-off thumb drives for easy file sharing. They come in 8GB and 16GB forms. Get them from The Grommet for $40 . An extension cord that’s designed to accommodate bulky laptop and phone chargers. Get one on Amazon for $16 . A glass screen protector that magically moves functions from the screen’s *top* corners to the *bottom* ones. It’s like they gave your phone a back button. Fits the iPhone 6/6s Plus. Get it from The Grommet for $15 . A plastic welder that fixes or fills anything in seconds. Get on Amazon for $20 . A classy watch that also happens to be a water-resistant fitness tracker. The battery will run for eight months on one set of cell batteries. Compatible with iOS or Android phones. Get one on Amazon $100 . A camera clip that makes bringing your DSLR with you a cinch. Get one on Amazon for $60 . An interactive light that’s flexible and can be stuffed deep into the recesses of your bag. Get on from the MoMa Store for $120 .  Honeycomb grip stickers that make your devices look like they’re from the future. Get some on Amazon for $18 . A Bluetooth controller to make any gamer feel at home on their phone. It works with all platforms: Windows, OSX, iOS and Android. Get one on Amazon for $33 . A leather wallet case to keep your cards angled for easy access. Available for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus . Get one on Amazon for $45 . A Bluetooth adapter that transforms your wired headphones into wireless ones. It has 10 hours of battery life and will work with any headphones with a 2.5 mm jack. Get one on Amazon for $100 . A wireless mouse that has silenced clicks (so you won’t wake up your roommate). Get one on Amazon for $30 . A connected basketball to track your shots and keeps tabs on how well you play. Get one on Amazon for $200 . A smart pen that’ll save anything you write to your phone. Compatible with iOS and Android. Comes with a leather portfolio and hardbound journal. Get one on Amazon $195 . A silicone diffuser that fits over your phone’s flash to give some ~ambient~ lighting. Get one on Amazon for $14 .  Chromecast (the best bang for your buck for streaming shows to your TV). Get one from Target for $35 . A stylus pencil designed for artists who want to draw on their iPads. Compatible with the iPad 3 and up. Get one on Amazon for $59 .  LED glasses that let you set custom animations or messages. Works with iOS and Android. Get a pair on Amazon for $69 . A bath air pillow that also holds up your smartphone in the tub. Get one from JapanTrendShop for $41 . A small wearable clip to notify you of incoming texts (or if you’ve accidentally left your phone behind). Works with iOS and Android. Get one on Amazon for $35 . And a solar-powered battery bank for when you need to charge in a pinch. It can also be charged via hand crank in case it’s a cloudy day. Get one from Amazon for $64 . Can’t get enough gift ideas? See every single one of our gift guides for 2016 here . Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

1. A smart scale that will help you bake a recipe perfectly every time.

No measuring needed! Just pour the ingredients in and the app will tell you when to stop. Works with iOS and Android.

Get one on Amazon for $50.