Granger Smith Breaks Ribs After Stage Fall
Granger Smith Breaks Ribs After Stage Fall
Artist With The Most Grammy Nominations for 2017 The Grammys Stop Fighting the Future With 2017 Nominees Grammy Nominations 2017: Female Singers Dominate Most Country Categories Sturgill Simpson: A Guide to the Surprise Album of the Year Nominee Granger Smith Breaks Ribs After Stage Fall  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Country music artist Granger Smith was able to continue performing after falling from a stage in New Jersey, but was later hospitalized. A spokeswoman said in a statement Smith shared on Twitter that he fell while singing at the Starland Ballroom in Sayreville on Friday night (Dec. 2). Smith was being treated for two broken ribs and a punctured and partially collapsed lung.  Smith was standing on an audio monitor when it gave way and he fell into a metal barricade. He got back up and continued performing. He says he took a pretty hard spill but hopes to be out of the hospital soon to head home to his family in Texas. Shows this weekend in North Carolina and Texas were canceled. Information about future shows will be released later.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Granger Smith performs at LakeShake at FirstMerit Bank Pavilion on June 17, 2016, in Chicago.

Country music artist Granger Smith was able to continue performing after falling from a stage in New Jersey, but was later hospitalized.

A spokeswoman said in a statement Smith shared on Twitter that he fell while singing at the Starland Ballroom in Sayreville on Friday night (Dec. 2).

Smith was being treated for two broken ribs and a punctured and partially collapsed lung.

Smith was standing on an audio monitor when it gave way and he fell into a metal barricade. He got back up and continued performing.

He says he took a pretty hard spill but hopes to be out of the hospital soon to head home to his family in Texas.

Shows this weekend in North Carolina and Texas were canceled. Information about future shows will be released later.