Player Protests Have Put The NFL In A No-Win Situation
Player Protests Have Put The NFL In A No-Win Situation
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Goff       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The highly visible protests of players like the 49ers Colin Kaepernick during the playing of the national anthem present a very sticky issue for the NFL and other sports leagues. Whatever a person's opinions about the substance of these protests or whether his actions or those of a few other players have factored into the lower NFL ratings for this season or not, the league faces a delicate tradeoff. It must balance the presentation of its "brand" against the appearance of bullying players on a sensitive matter involving race. It's certainly not unreasonable for the NFL, or any employer, to discourage political or socially controversial displays or actions by employees that create conflict between employees or that influence consumer perception of the product. In fact, it would be ludicrous to permit workers to slap Trump or Hilary stickers or any other symbol of political or social support or protest on to Mrs. Smith's pies as they shipped. The peaceful but highly visible and controversial displays of players personal views on social issues during a football game may not be exactly equivalent, but they are similar. Furthermore, with the multi-million dollar salaries of so many professional athletes, league limits on personal expression on-the-job are hardly "the man" squashing the little guy. Outside of the context of political or social protests, the NFL goes to some length in bounding player expressions that the league feels negatively impacts its product in the eyes of consumers. Touchdown celebrations are circumscribed. The league does not permit personalization of uniforms or gestures like "throat slashing" that are deemed demeaning or incendiary.  In response to off-the-field behavior and its possible impact, the NFL (and other leagues) have adopted personal conduct codes. Of course, some of these limitations have their critics, including those among the media who see the league as too controlling.  The Chicago Bears' Jim McMahon famously pushed against Pete Rozelle and found many writers willing to back his fairly childish antics because, after all, he was bucking the big bad league. Additionally, players consistently push out the boundaries in a game of "well if I can't do that, you didn't say I can't do this" whether it is choreographing faux phone calls or punching the goal post. Colin Kaepernick #7 and two teammates kneel in protest during the national anthem prior to their NFL game against Tampa Bay Buccaneers on October 23, 2016. (Photo by Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images) In spite of these criticisms and whether the league draws the line in just the right place, the NFL and other leagues are not out of bounds in trying to manage the behavior of players in ways that directly determine and reflect on its product. Sports leagues don't exist in a vacuum. Fan preferences matter. If games are too long or boring or player actions are detract from fan enjoyment, the league has an interest. Ultimately, its not the analyst on ESPN, the New York Times writer, or a blogger like me that matters, but fan preferences that drive long run revenues for the league as well as player salaries. Freedom of speech has limits when on-the-job. But, the league does not exist in a social vacuum either. While there are parallels between limits placed on things like touchdown celebrations and protests of social or public policy, the fact that these protests involve issues of racial discrimination put them in a special category. If the league comes down on them, it can be perceived as being supporting the objects of protests -- "the oppressors." While bearing some similarity to Jim McMahon's complaints, its a much more serious social issue. And, its where the analyst on ESPN, the New York Times, and other media outlets have a big and influential voice. The NFL can take no action and hope these protests lose steam. If they don't, or, more problematic, these protests encourage additional player ones on this issue or other issues, then the league is almost forced into some action. Consumers will notice and respond, and acrimony between players and fans bubbling up is not a positive. Bringing the Players Association in and trying to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution might be the best course of action. One aspect of these specific issue is that the playing of the national anthem carries with it something of a political statement. If the practice were not already in place, I would not be a big supporter of initiating it. It's not that I'm anti-America, but, if nothing else, as sports contests have become more and more common, the practice has become mechanical and devoid of much meaning. Playing it exclusively at the Super Bowl would actually elevate it. However, in the current context, removing the anthem from games as a response to the issue would likely create even more tension between fans and the protesting players.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The highly visible protests of players like the 49ers Colin Kaepernick during the playing of the national anthem present a very sticky issue for the NFL and other sports leagues. Whatever a person's opinions about the substance of these protests or whether his actions or those of a few other players have factored into the lower NFL ratings for this season or not, the league faces a delicate tradeoff. It must balance the presentation of its "brand" against the appearance of bullying players on a sensitive matter involving race.

It's certainly not unreasonable for the NFL, or any employer, to discourage political or socially controversial displays or actions by employees that create conflict between employees or that influence consumer perception of the product. In fact, it would be ludicrous to permit workers to slap Trump or Hilary stickers or any other symbol of political or social support or protest on to Mrs. Smith's pies as they shipped. The peaceful but highly visible and controversial displays of players personal views on social issues during a football game may not be exactly equivalent, but they are similar. Furthermore, with the multi-million dollar salaries of so many professional athletes, league limits on personal expression on-the-job are hardly "the man" squashing the little guy.

Outside of the context of political or social protests, the NFL goes to some length in bounding player expressions that the league feels negatively impacts its product in the eyes of consumers. Touchdown celebrations are circumscribed. The league does not permit personalization of uniforms or gestures like "throat slashing" that are deemed demeaning or incendiary. In response to off-the-field behavior and its possible impact, the NFL (and other leagues) have adopted personal conduct codes.

Of course, some of these limitations have their critics, including those among the media who see the league as too controlling. The Chicago Bears' Jim McMahon famously pushed against Pete Rozelle and found many writers willing to back his fairly childish antics because, after all, he was bucking the big bad league. Additionally, players consistently push out the boundaries in a game of "well if I can't do that, you didn't say I can't do this" whether it is choreographing faux phone calls or punching the goal post.

In spite of these criticisms and whether the league draws the line in just the right place, the NFL and other leagues are not out of bounds in trying to manage the behavior of players in ways that directly determine and reflect on its product. Sports leagues don't exist in a vacuum. Fan preferences matter. If games are too long or boring or player actions are detract from fan enjoyment, the league has an interest. Ultimately, its not the analyst on ESPN, the New York Times writer, or a blogger like me that matters, but fan preferences that drive long run revenues for the league as well as player salaries. Freedom of speech has limits when on-the-job.

But, the league does not exist in a social vacuum either. While there are parallels between limits placed on things like touchdown celebrations and protests of social or public policy, the fact that these protests involve issues of racial discrimination put them in a special category. If the league comes down on them, it can be perceived as being supporting the objects of protests -- "the oppressors." While bearing some similarity to Jim McMahon's complaints, its a much more serious social issue. And, its where the analyst on ESPN, the New York Times, and other media outlets have a big and influential voice.

The NFL can take no action and hope these protests lose steam. If they don't, or, more problematic, these protests encourage additional player ones on this issue or other issues, then the league is almost forced into some action. Consumers will notice and respond, and acrimony between players and fans bubbling up is not a positive. Bringing the Players Association in and trying to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution might be the best course of action.

One aspect of these specific issue is that the playing of the national anthem carries with it something of a political statement. If the practice were not already in place, I would not be a big supporter of initiating it. It's not that I'm anti-America, but, if nothing else, as sports contests have become more and more common, the practice has become mechanical and devoid of much meaning. Playing it exclusively at the Super Bowl would actually elevate it. However, in the current context, removing the anthem from games as a response to the issue would likely create even more tension between fans and the protesting players.