Cincinnati Bearcats coach Tommy Tuberville resigns
Cincinnati's Tuberville resigns after 4 seasons
Cincinnati's Tuberville resigns after 4 seasons Alabama's 'Predator,' Tim Williams, is a lineman's nightmare Oregon hires USF's Taggart to be next coach 49ers' Kelly: Would never leave a job in season Stanford RB McCaffrey entering 2017 NFL draft Emmert: Penn State's response led to success LSU's Aranda to be one of top-paid assistants Alabama losing third backup QB to transfer Vols land Trey Smith, ESPN's No. 1 prospect FPI breaks down bowl season The dream bowl games we'd really like to see What if there were an eight-team College Football Playoff? Here's to Mike MacIntyre, Lamar Jackson and 2016's best in show L'ville's Jackson leads group of Heisman finalists Bearkats' Keeler wins Eddie Robinson Award Spreads for every CFB bowl game Sequel? Urban Meyer has another young team but knows way around CFP Nabbing No. 1 recruit Trey Smith much-needed good news for Vols, Butch Jones Healthy for this CFP, J.T. Barrett's big moment has arrived Lacking Texas ties, Matt Rhule faces added challenge, depleted roster at Baylor Rhule leaves Temple to become Baylor coach President-elect Trump going to Army-Navy game Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman? Playoff? That's not what this committee had in mind Bama courts history amid unusual playoff landscape Get used to it, people: There's no surefire CFP path Source: QB Morris transferring from Michigan The tragic tale behind a Heisman underdog This bowl season, the biggest game is also the most entertaining Franklin: Penn State 'excited' for bowl despite CFP snub Meet the overlooked leader of Alabama's dominant defense How Alabama thrived in the face of massive expectations 41 bowl games, 42 predictions 1 Related 2016-17 College Football Playoff and bowl schedule Purdue hits the jackpot by hiring Jeff Brohm as head coach Big Ten can validate dominant regular season in challenging bowl lineup Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment College football reporter for ESPN Nominated for Pulitzer Prize in 2010 Graduate of Oklahoma State University Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Cincinnati Bearcats coach Tommy Tuberville has stepped down, the school announced Sunday. Tuberville was 29-22 in four seasons at Cincinnati, including 4-8 this season. There was speculation that Tuberville could be fired on Wednesday, the day his buyout would have been reduced from $2.4 million to $1.5 million. Tuberville, 62, received a two-year extension from Cincinnati earlier this year that put him under contract with the school through 2019. The Bearcats made a bowl game in each of his first three seasons but lost all three. "After much thought and reflection, I have decided to step down and resign from my position here at the University of Cincinnati," Tuberville said in a statement through the school. "I want to thank the board of trustees, the administration, the fans and the University for these last four years. I also want to thank our coaches, staff and anyone associated within our athletic department. "Most of all, I will miss these players but know these young men will turn out to be outstanding leaders in the world and for me that is what it's all about. I am not done coaching and I look forward to my next challenge. Go Bearcats!" The Bearcats lost five straight games to finish the season, missing a bowl game for the first time since 2010. "He is a Hall of Fame coach," Cincinnati athletic director Mike Bohn said. "We thank him and his staff for their hard work and dedication to Cincinnati. Change is never an easy thing on our student-athletes, but their success and well-being is our primary focus. We will move onward and search for a head coach who can continue the growth of the football program in line with our goals of being class of the league." Leading candidates to replace Tuberville include Western Kentucky's Jeff Brohm and Troy's Neal Brown, sources told ESPN. Tuberville is 159-99 in 21 seasons as a head coach at Ole Miss, Auburn, Texas Tech and Cincinnati. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Cincinnati Bearcats coach Tommy Tuberville has stepped down, the school announced Sunday.

Tuberville was 29-22 in four seasons at Cincinnati, including 4-8 this season. There was speculation that Tuberville could be fired on Wednesday, the day his buyout would have been reduced from $2.4 million to $1.5 million.

Coach Tommy Tuberville went 29-22 in four seasons at Cincinnati, including 4-8 this season. Steve Nurenberg/Icon Sportswire

Tuberville, 62, received a two-year extension from Cincinnati earlier this year that put him under contract with the school through 2019. The Bearcats made a bowl game in each of his first three seasons but lost all three.

"After much thought and reflection, I have decided to step down and resign from my position here at the University of Cincinnati," Tuberville said in a statement through the school. "I want to thank the board of trustees, the administration, the fans and the University for these last four years. I also want to thank our coaches, staff and anyone associated within our athletic department.

"Most of all, I will miss these players but know these young men will turn out to be outstanding leaders in the world and for me that is what it's all about. I am not done coaching and I look forward to my next challenge. Go Bearcats!"

The Bearcats lost five straight games to finish the season, missing a bowl game for the first time since 2010.

"He is a Hall of Fame coach," Cincinnati athletic director Mike Bohn said. "We thank him and his staff for their hard work and dedication to Cincinnati. Change is never an easy thing on our student-athletes, but their success and well-being is our primary focus. We will move onward and search for a head coach who can continue the growth of the football program in line with our goals of being class of the league."

Leading candidates to replace Tuberville include Western Kentucky's Jeff Brohm and Troy's Neal Brown, sources told ESPN.

Tuberville is 159-99 in 21 seasons as a head coach at Ole Miss, Auburn, Texas Tech and Cincinnati.