Urban Meyer watches Ohio States Buckeyes get College Football Playoff berth from hospital due to grandchild's birth
Meyer's big day includes CFP bid, first grandchild
Meyer's big day includes CFP bid, first grandchild Oregon hires USF's Taggart to be next coach Alabama losing third backup QB to transfer Rhule says he's honored to be Baylor's coach 49ers' Kelly: Would never leave a job in season Emmert: Penn State's response led to success LSU's Aranda to be one of top-paid assistants Alabama's 'Predator,' Tim Williams, is a lineman's nightmare Vols land Trey Smith, ESPN's No. 1 prospect FPI breaks down bowl season The dream bowl games we'd really like to see What if there were an eight-team College Football Playoff? Here's to Mike MacIntyre, Lamar Jackson and 2016's best in show L'ville's Jackson leads group of Heisman finalists Bearkats' Keeler wins Eddie Robinson Award Spreads for every CFB bowl game Sequel? Urban Meyer has another young team but knows way around CFP Nabbing No. 1 recruit Trey Smith much-needed good news for Vols, Butch Jones Healthy for this CFP, J.T. Barrett's big moment has arrived Lacking Texas ties, Matt Rhule faces added challenge, depleted roster at Baylor '94 Heisman winner Salaam dead at age 42 Rhule leaves Temple to become Baylor coach President-elect Trump going to Army-Navy game Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman? Playoff? That's not what this committee had in mind Bama courts history amid unusual playoff landscape Get used to it, people: There's no surefire CFP path Source: QB Morris transferring from Michigan The tragic tale behind a Heisman underdog This bowl season, the biggest game is also the most entertaining Franklin: Penn State 'excited' for bowl despite CFP snub Meet the overlooked leader of Alabama's dominant defense How Alabama thrived in the face of massive expectations 41 bowl games, 42 predictions 1 Related 2016-17 College Football Playoff and bowl schedule Urban Meyer believes that Ohio State's win over Oklahoma was key to its spot in the College Football Playoff and shares the emotions of becoming a grandfather the same day as finding out the Buckeyes' fate. (1:59) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covers the Big Ten. Joined ESPN in 2012. Attended the University of Wyoming. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Urban Meyer was a little late to the office, but at least there was a television in the maternity ward at Riverside Hospital. After struggling to get to sleep with Ohio State 's playoff hopes hanging in the balance and his oldest daughter, Nicki, in the hospital about to make him a grandfather for the first time, Meyer had an early start Sunday, but he didn't make his way to the Woody Hayes Athletic Center until after learning where the No. 3 Buckeyes were heading. "I watched the selection show from the maternity ward at Riverside Hospital," Meyer said. "That's a first. And we kind of knew it was coming. It was about two weeks early, but we kind of knew things were moving quickly. Sure enough, we got the phone call yesterday. "All of a sudden, you go to sleep and she's in the hospital because things started moving, and then [wife] Shelley, I was out and she left a note for me. I popped up at 5:30, got the text message that the baby was born, grabbed my son Nate to go down there. Got there at 6:30, and we hung out with them." Shortly after noon, Meyer found a television to watch the announcement of the College Football Playoff bracket , which included the Buckeyes' becoming the first team not to win a conference championship to make the four-team field. Ohio State will face Clemson in the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl on Dec. 31 in Glendale, Arizona. With that information in tow along with his new role as a grandfather to Troy -- 7 pounds, 1 ounce -- Meyer strolled into the facility just before 1 p.m. with a wide smile on his face. "Very emotional," Meyer said. "It's my little girl, and I'm so proud of her, so proud of the dad. They're going to be [great]. God's blessed them, and now it's an incredible responsibility." Meyer also dealt with an illness of his own last week during a busy stretch of recruiting, but he is healthy now and all clear to jump back into his professional responsibilities. A matchup with the Tigers looms, but Meyer is riding high after one of the most interesting, satisfying days of his career. "It's been incredible," Meyer said. "And everybody is good." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Urban Meyer believes that Ohio State's win over Oklahoma was key to its spot in the College Football Playoff and shares the emotions of becoming a grandfather the same day as finding out the Buckeyes' fate. (1:59)

COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Urban Meyer was a little late to the office, but at least there was a television in the maternity ward at Riverside Hospital.

After struggling to get to sleep with Ohio State's playoff hopes hanging in the balance and his oldest daughter, Nicki, in the hospital about to make him a grandfather for the first time, Meyer had an early start Sunday, but he didn't make his way to the Woody Hayes Athletic Center until after learning where the No. 3 Buckeyes were heading.

"I watched the selection show from the maternity ward at Riverside Hospital," Meyer said. "That's a first. And we kind of knew it was coming. It was about two weeks early, but we kind of knew things were moving quickly. Sure enough, we got the phone call yesterday.

College Football Playoff reaction 2016-17 bowl schedule

Get the latest info on where and when every bowl team will be playing this year. First look: Bama-UW, Clemson-OSU

Can Washington do anything to stop Alabama? Can Ohio State's defense slow down Deshaun Watson? Sorry, Big Ten, the committee got it right

While the Big Ten was clamoring for a second playoff team in Penn State, Pac-12 champ Washington was more deserving. How we arrived at this College Football Playoff

College football is certainly a game of inches. Here's a look back at the plays that helped decide the 2016 season.

"All of a sudden, you go to sleep and she's in the hospital because things started moving, and then [wife] Shelley, I was out and she left a note for me. I popped up at 5:30, got the text message that the baby was born, grabbed my son Nate to go down there. Got there at 6:30, and we hung out with them."

Shortly after noon, Meyer found a television to watch the announcement of the College Football Playoff bracket, which included the Buckeyes' becoming the first team not to win a conference championship to make the four-team field.

Ohio State will face Clemson in the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl on Dec. 31 in Glendale, Arizona.

With that information in tow along with his new role as a grandfather to Troy -- 7 pounds, 1 ounce -- Meyer strolled into the facility just before 1 p.m. with a wide smile on his face.

Editor's Picks College Football Playoff Semifinal at the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl: Clemson vs. Ohio State Check out ESPN's coverage of the College Football Playoff Semifinal at the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl, which will air live on ESPN on Dec. 31.

"Very emotional," Meyer said. "It's my little girl, and I'm so proud of her, so proud of the dad. They're going to be [great]. God's blessed them, and now it's an incredible responsibility."

Meyer also dealt with an illness of his own last week during a busy stretch of recruiting, but he is healthy now and all clear to jump back into his professional responsibilities.

A matchup with the Tigers looms, but Meyer is riding high after one of the most interesting, satisfying days of his career.

"It's been incredible," Meyer said. "And everybody is good."