The case for and against each College Football Playoff contender
The case for and against the CFP contenders
The case for and against the CFP contenders A viewer's guide to the most (and least) entertaining bowls Alabama OC Kiffin hired as Florida Atlantic coach Sources: Temple to hire ex-Gators DC Collins Former ESPN 300 QB Henry leaving Florida St. Baylor regents reject call for new 3rd-party review Source: Texas Tech's Mahomes has wrist surgery Applewhite's Houston deal worth $7.5M over 5 yrs Jarrett Stidham turns Auburn into a playoff contender for 2017 Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft 2016 True Freshman All-America team Lamar Jackson leads star-studded ESPN All-America team Has Lane Kiffin grown up? 1 Related Houston regent: Kiffin not safe hire for Cougars Why the unlikely marriage of Nick Saban and Lane Kiffin worked Here's to Mike MacIntyre, Lamar Jackson and 2016's best in show Incredible year of Lamar Jackson ends with Heisman 1 Related Lamar Jackson wins Heisman Trophy: Top stats to know The dream bowl games we'd really like to see Eight games that most impacted the CFP race Jalen Hurts has the talent and opportunity for 2017 Heisman run Watch Clemson's tribute video to Deshaun Watson Source: 2 Louisville LBs OK after shooting Banned USC LB Masina faces trial on rape charges Source: Browns eye DE Garrett as possible No. 1 South Florida hires former Texas coach Strong Army washes away years of frustration in 'surreal' celebration 1 Related Army-Navy generates big handle in Vegas The true story behind Army's 1990 mission to steal Navy's goat Why 'Catholics vs. Convicts' still resonates James Franklin believes Penn State deserves strong consideration for the College Football Playoff, but he will appreciate whatever the committee decides. (1:19) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment College football reporter Joined ESPN.com in 2007 Graduate of Indiana University Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment GRAPEVINE, Texas -- This is not as clear-cut as you might think. The 12 members of the College Football Playoff selection committee moved from their TV viewing room into "Selection Central" on Saturday night after the games ended to debate and vote on their top 25 teams in the country. What began as a ho-hum day turned into a wild night, as Penn State's win over Wisconsin in the Big Ten title game will force the committee to truly weigh the value of a conference title. It certainly opened the door for debate, so here's a look at the case for and against the teams vying for a spot in the top four -- no Alabama or Clemson herein; they should be safe -- heading into the final rankings Sunday at noon ET during the College Football Playoff Selection Show on ESPN: The No. 7 Nittany Lions now own two tiebreakers over No. 2 Ohio State -- the head-to-head win and the conference title. Also in Penn State's favor: the word "unequivocal." The committee's protocol states that in order for a team that didn't win a conference title to be in the top four, it has to unequivocally be one of the four best teams. How can there be no doubt that Ohio State is better than Penn State if the Buckeyes didn't win their game back in October? Selection committee chair Kirby Hocutt has said in recent weeks that the gap between No. 2 Ohio State and No. 7 Penn State is significant. If their résumés are not comparable, the committee doesn't have to refer to the tiebreakers. Penn State also has two losses, including one to No. 25 Pitt and a 39-point defeat to No. 5 Michigan. No. 4 Washington turned in a dominant performance during a 41-10 win over No. 8 Colorado in the Pac-12 title game, showcasing its strong running game and defense on a day when Huskies quarterback Jake Browning was stymied. Washington now has a top-10 win on its résumé, to go along with victories against ranked opponents in Stanford, Utah and then-No. 23 Washington State. Washington's only loss was to No. 11 USC. A nonconference strength of schedule that ranks No. 127 out of 128, with wins over Rutgers, Idaho and FCS foe Portland State -- teams that have combined for a 12-22 record. The committee has hammered home the importance of scheduling, but including one-loss Washington -- while punishing Big 12 champ Oklahoma for scheduling aggressively but losing to Houston and Ohio State -- would send the opposite message. With the exception of undefeated Alabama, nobody has a better résumé in the country than Ohio State, which has three wins against top-10 teams. It now has a road win against the Big 12 champ, No. 9 Oklahoma, and the Big Ten runner-up, No. 6 Wisconsin. The Buckeyes lost the head-to-head game against Penn State, and they didn't even win their division, let alone the Big Ten title. The Wolverines beat both teams that played for the Big Ten championship -- Penn State and Wisconsin -- along with Pac-12 runner-up Colorado, to tally three wins against top-10 teams. Hocutt said on Tuesday the separation between Michigan and Washington was so slim that the committee debated for about two hours over which team was better and some committee members really struggled with it. Michigan played eight home games, and it lost the road game that mattered the most -- at Ohio State -- and a road game it should have won, at unranked Iowa. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

James Franklin believes Penn State deserves strong consideration for the College Football Playoff, but he will appreciate whatever the committee decides. (1:19)

GRAPEVINE, Texas -- This is not as clear-cut as you might think.

The 12 members of the College Football Playoff selection committee moved from their TV viewing room into "Selection Central" on Saturday night after the games ended to debate and vote on their top 25 teams in the country.

What began as a ho-hum day turned into a wild night, as Penn State's win over Wisconsin in the Big Ten title game will force the committee to truly weigh the value of a conference title. It certainly opened the door for debate, so here's a look at the case for and against the teams vying for a spot in the top four -- no Alabama or Clemson herein; they should be safe -- heading into the final rankings Sunday at noon ET during the College Football Playoff Selection Show on ESPN:

Editor's Picks ESPN picks: Who should make the CFP? Forget who will be selected for the College Football Playoff on Selection Day. Which four teams should be in? We asked a panel of experts from across ESPN platforms to weigh in.

Bowl projections heading into the final playoff selections Now that championship week is in the books, our experts predict where bowl-eligible teams will land this postseason.

Final playoff tracker: A change in protocol for committee? In selecting its four best teams this year, the committee chose a team that didn't win the Big Ten in Ohio State and a Washington team that had an extremely weak nonconference schedule. 2 Related

Penn State

The case for: The No. 7 Nittany Lions now own two tiebreakers over No. 2 Ohio State -- the head-to-head win and the conference title. Also in Penn State's favor: the word "unequivocal." The committee's protocol states that in order for a team that didn't win a conference title to be in the top four, it has to unequivocally be one of the four best teams. How can there be no doubt that Ohio State is better than Penn State if the Buckeyes didn't win their game back in October?

The case against: Selection committee chair Kirby Hocutt has said in recent weeks that the gap between No. 2 Ohio State and No. 7 Penn State is significant. If their résumés are not comparable, the committee doesn't have to refer to the tiebreakers. Penn State also has two losses, including one to No. 25 Pitt and a 39-point defeat to No. 5 Michigan.

Washington

The case for: No. 4 Washington turned in a dominant performance during a 41-10 win over No. 8 Colorado in the Pac-12 title game, showcasing its strong running game and defense on a day when Huskies quarterback Jake Browning was stymied. Washington now has a top-10 win on its résumé, to go along with victories against ranked opponents in Stanford, Utah and then-No. 23 Washington State. Washington's only loss was to No. 11 USC.

The case against: A nonconference strength of schedule that ranks No. 127 out of 128, with wins over Rutgers, Idaho and FCS foe Portland State -- teams that have combined for a 12-22 record. The committee has hammered home the importance of scheduling, but including one-loss Washington -- while punishing Big 12 champ Oklahoma for scheduling aggressively but losing to Houston and Ohio State -- would send the opposite message.

Ohio State

The case for: With the exception of undefeated Alabama, nobody has a better résumé in the country than Ohio State, which has three wins against top-10 teams. It now has a road win against the Big 12 champ, No. 9 Oklahoma, and the Big Ten runner-up, No. 6 Wisconsin.

The case against: The Buckeyes lost the head-to-head game against Penn State, and they didn't even win their division, let alone the Big Ten title.

Michigan

The case for: The Wolverines beat both teams that played for the Big Ten championship -- Penn State and Wisconsin -- along with Pac-12 runner-up Colorado, to tally three wins against top-10 teams. Hocutt said on Tuesday the separation between Michigan and Washington was so slim that the committee debated for about two hours over which team was better and some committee members really struggled with it.

The case against: Michigan played eight home games, and it lost the road game that mattered the most -- at Ohio State -- and a road game it should have won, at unranked Iowa.