Aleppo cemeteries overrun after years of civil war and fighting ISIS
No room for bodies of Aleppo as even the makeshift cemetery is full


Suspected Russian air strikes has killed dozens of people in the latest raids on rebels in Aleppo.

At least 46 have died as President Bashar Assad's government troops advance in fierce clashes with rebels in Eastern Aleppo.

Syria's government is waging an offensive to recapture all of second city Aleppo, and it has so far captured more than 60 percent of the eastern districts that fell to rebels in 2012.

Syrian army soldiers flash the V for victory-sign as they patrol a neighborhood in Aleppo

In Idlib province, in northwest Syria, at least 26 civilians were killed in suspected Russian strikes on the town of Kafr Nabel, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitor said.

An eyewitness said warplanes hit several places in the town, including a local market.

The Observatory says it determines whose planes carries out raids according to their type, location, flight patterns and the munitions involved.

The group said 18 people were also killed in suspected Russian strikes on the town of Maaret al-Numan, where a photographer saw rescue workers and residents trying to pull survivors from the rubble at a vegetable market.

The monitor reported two additional deaths, one in an earlier strike on Maaret al-Numan and another in Al-Naqir, also in Idlib.

And it said six civilians, four of them children, had been killed in a government barrel bomb attack on the town of Al-Tamanah in the south of Idlib.

Russia is a staunch ally of President Bashar al-Assad's government and began a military intervention in support of Damascus in September 2015.

Moscow says it is targeting 'terrorists' and has dismissed reports of civilian casualties in its strikes.

No room for the bodies of Aleppo as even the makeshift cemetery is full after years of civil war and battles against ISIS

Officials have run out of room to bury dead bodies in war-torn Aleppo following years of deadly battles.

Over the last four years, some 20,000 residents have lost their lives as government forces continue their siege on the rebel-held city.

Two cemeteries have already been filled and medical officials have secured a site for a third.

But in the meantime desperate residents have resorted to burying victims in back gardens. Those less fortunate are simply left in the streets.

Men attend a funeral at a cemetery in Aleppo, where residents are struggling to bury the dead

Smoke billows from southern Aleppo during fighting between rebel and government forces

Mohammed Abu Jaafar, the head of the local forensic authority, said: 'We have no more room. Even if I were to consider mass burials, I don't have the machines to do the digging.'

His department is so overwhelmed, the staff registering the dead pleaded with him not to take any more bodies, he said.

Over the last two weeks government forces have bombarded the area, killing more than 310 civilians, including 42 children, and up to 220 opposition fighters, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

Last weekend, ground troops stormed into the 17-square-mile enclave, captured half of it and advanced on the rest.

U.N Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O'Brien pleaded Wednesday for access to eastern Aleppo, home to some 275,000, 'before it becomes one giant graveyard.'

Residents of a southern neighborhood close to a government advance only learned that a body was lying in the ditches when a cat started eating at the corpse.

The first cemetery was filled last year and the makeshift one is now also at capacity

Mr Abu Jaafar said: 'A woman from the neighborhood came and reported it to the morgue. We still don't know who the corpse belongs to. I swear to God I cried. And I am one who is used to horrific scenes.'

In the past four years, more than 20,000 residents of Aleppo province have been killed, more than 80 percent of them in rebel-held areas, according to the Britain-based Observatory, which has kept a record of casualties.

The eastern districts' old cemetery was full even before rebels took over the area in 2012. But it was still used amid the heavy fighting and government bombardment as officials looked for another piece of land. They found another last year, but now that one, which was bombed this summer, and two smaller ones are full.

But since the war intensified, residents of east Aleppo have had to resort to whatever is closest to honor their dead.

Smoke rises in the east Aleppo neighborhood of Tariq al-Bab after rebels launch an attack

Syrian army soldiers patrol Tariq al-Bab, which was captured by government forces this week

'We have buried our dead in our gardens for a while,' said Amino, of the council. When possible, he said people take their dead to the Tababa, or the health authority run by Abu Jaafar that operates the morgue and issues deaths certificates.

Documentation is nearly impossible when the whole population is in flux. Since Saturday, 20 bodies lie in his morgue unidentified after the shelling of people fleeing the ground advances. Another 70 bodies remain unidentified from the airstrikes that preceded the ground assault.

Abu Jaafar posted a picture of a five-month-old girl found under the rubble somewhere in Aleppo two days ago. Her parents are believed dead, and the little girl lost a leg. She is now in the care of the nurses in one of the underground clinics.

'With ambulances overwhelmed and many of them out of order, people are acting as rescuers,' Abu Jaafar said.

All the bodies are believed to be civilians. The fighters bury their dead independently.

With no respect in death, Abu Jaafar said surviving in collapsing Aleppo may be even worse.

A former regime loyalist who defected to the opposition, he said he fears the government may regain control of all of Aleppo.