You Won't Believe Who Trump Dressed As for 'Superhero' Costume Party

You Won't Believe Who Trump Dressed As for 'Superhero' Costume Party // // // // President-elect Donald Trump and top adviser Kellyanne Conway attended a major donor's 'heroes & villains'-themed costume party on Saturday night on Long Island. Conway showed up to hedge fund magnate Robert Mercer's mansion near Smithtown, N.Y. dressed as 'Supergirl', while Trump came dressed as ... himself. Honoring the ultimate hero at the Mercer "Heroes and Villians" party on Long Island. Crowd thrilled w/ surprise! pic.twitter.com/VQAyaKvs6i — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) December 4, 2016 Trump arrived at the party without an obvious costume, and according to the Washington Post , when a reporter asked who he was supposed to be dressed as, he pointed to himself and mouthed the word "me". Mercer and his wife Rebekah donated millions to a pro-Trump SuperPAC run by their daughter. Melania Trump was not with her husband at the party, but incoming White House chief strategist Steve Bannon was reportedly in attendance. When he returned home to Manhattan, Trump caught part of "Saturday Night Live," during which he tweeted his objection to Alec Baldwin's latest impression. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Huckabee: Romney Disqualified Himself from Cabinet By Bashing Trump

Judge Jeanine on Trump's Carrier Deal: 'You're Watching Ronald Reagan'

Bolton on Trump's Taiwan Call: China Doesn't Tell Us Who We Can Talk To

President-elect Donald Trump and top adviser Kellyanne Conway attended a major donor's 'heroes & villains'-themed costume party on Saturday night on Long Island.

Conway showed up to hedge fund magnate Robert Mercer's mansion near Smithtown, N.Y. dressed as 'Supergirl', while Trump came dressed as ... himself.

Honoring the ultimate hero at the Mercer "Heroes and Villians" party on Long Island. Crowd thrilled w/ surprise! pic.twitter.com/VQAyaKvs6i — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) December 4, 2016

Trump arrived at the party without an obvious costume, and according to the Washington Post, when a reporter asked who he was supposed to be dressed as, he pointed to himself and mouthed the word "me".

Mercer and his wife Rebekah donated millions to a pro-Trump SuperPAC run by their daughter.

Melania Trump was not with her husband at the party, but incoming White House chief strategist Steve Bannon was reportedly in attendance.

When he returned home to Manhattan, Trump caught part of "Saturday Night Live," during which he tweeted his objection to Alec Baldwin's latest impression.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Ivanka Trump to Meet with Al Gore to Discuss Climate Issues

Kaepernick Benched After Historically Bad Performance

Two Feet of Snow Forecasted For... Hawaii?!

Palin Blasts Trump's Carrier Deal: 'Crony Capitalism is One Big Fail'

LOOK: Jeep Carrying Castro's Ashes Breaks Down During Funeral Procession