Donald Trump lashes out at media in series of nonsensical tweets
Donald Trump lashes out at media in series of nonsensical tweets
Popular videos    White House responds to Trump's Boeing Twitter tirade      See through the eyes of a factory farmed chicken in new film      Durham student union candidate pledges to 'defeat Isis'      Justice Secretary says barking dogs could stop drones delivering drugs   Donald Trump has posted a series of innaccurate and nonsensical tweets attacking the media, in a late night tirade in response to reports criticising his claim that millions of people voted illegally. Retweeting messages of his supporters, some of them not old enough to vote, the President-elect targeted senior CNN reporter Jeff Zeleny in five separate posts over the course of 40 minutes. Mr Zeleny had reported that Mr Trump was showing signs of being a “sore winner” and had “zero evidence” to support his claim of mass voter fraud in favour of Hillary Clinton. Read more Could scandal-hit David Petraeus become Donald Trump's top diplomat? Donald Trump officially wins Michigan as vote recount looms Electoral College member resigns rather than vote for Donald Trump The Democratic candidate has now convincingly won the popular vote by at least two million ballots, but the Electoral College system means Mr Trump still took the presidency. An in the latest example of the billionaire businessman's sensitivity to media criticism, he posted the first in his series of tweets at 9.14pm New York time, adding "do your job" to one of his supporter's posts. " @HighonHillcrest : @jeffzeleny what PROOF do u have DonaldTrump did not suffer from millions of FRAUD votes? Journalist? Do your job! @CNN " " @JoeBowman12 : @jeffzeleny just another generic CNN part time wannabe journalist !" @CNN still doesn't get it. They will never learn! " @FiIibuster : @jeffzeleny Pathetic - you have no sufficient evidence that Donald Trump did not suffer from voter fraud, shame! Bad reporter. " @sdcritic : @HighonHillcrest  @jeffzeleny  @CNN There is NO QUESTION THAT #voterfraud did take place, and in favor of #CorruptHillary !" . @CNN is so embarrassed by their total (100%) support of Hillary Clinton, and yet her loss in a landslide, that they don't know what to do. Mr Trump has still delivered no evidence to support his earlier claim that millions of people voted illegally. He said: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally." It was later reported that the false claim may have been based on an unverified tweet spread by far-right and conspiracy websites. Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On John McCain   Asked about Senator John McCain – a former POW in Vietnam – at the Family Leadership Summit in Ames, Iowa:
“He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”
18 July 2015      On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”
7 August 2015      On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”
18 December 2015      On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”
23 January 2016      On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."
7 February 2016      On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”
3 March 2016      On Hillary Clinton   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”
27 July 2016      On Captain Khan's parents   In an interview with ABC news after the Democratic National Convention, Trump speculates about the parents of killed Muslim soldier Captain Humayun Khan:
"I saw him. He was, you know, very emotional. And probably looked like — a nice guy to me. His wife, if you look at his wife, she was standing there. She had nothing to say. She probably — maybe she wasn't allowed to have anything to say."
30 July      On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."
9 August 2016      On President Barack Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”
10 August      On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”
7 October 2016      On Hillary Clinton's emails   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”
9 October 2016      On avoiding income tax   Also during the second debate, he was confronted about evading federal income tax for almost two decades:
"I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."
9 October 2016      On his accusers   Referring to one of his accusers at a rally in North Carolina:
“Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”
14 October 2016      On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”
19 October      On pro-life policies   At the third debate he was asked about his pro-life policies:
“Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable."
19 October 2016      On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”
20 October      On suing his accusers   Speaking at the iconic Gettysburg Address in Pennsylvania, he promised to get his revenge against the more than dozen women who have accused him of sexual assault.
"Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”
22 October   A number of pro-Trump websites claimed three million illegal immigrants voted in the US election, but did not provide any solid evidence to back the claim up. Instead, the majority referred to a tweet posted in the days following the election by a man called Greg Phillips, who identified himself as the founder of an "election fraud reporting app". Anger among Trump supporters on Twitter was reignited after Green Party candidate Jill Stein called for a recount of votes in Wisconsin . More about: Donald Trump voter fraud Social Media Comments

Donald Trump has posted a series of innaccurate and nonsensical tweets attacking the media, in a late night tirade in response to reports criticising his claim that millions of people voted illegally.

Retweeting messages of his supporters, some of them not old enough to vote, the President-elect targeted senior CNN reporter Jeff Zeleny in five separate posts over the course of 40 minutes.

Mr Zeleny had reported that Mr Trump was showing signs of being a “sore winner” and had “zero evidence” to support his claim of mass voter fraud in favour of Hillary Clinton.

The Democratic candidate has now convincingly won the popular vote by at least two million ballots, but the Electoral College system means Mr Trump still took the presidency.

An in the latest example of the billionaire businessman's sensitivity to media criticism, he posted the first in his series of tweets at 9.14pm New York time, adding "do your job" to one of his supporter's posts.

"@HighonHillcrest: @jeffzeleny what PROOF do u have DonaldTrump did not suffer from millions of FRAUD votes? Journalist? Do your job! @CNN" — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016

"@JoeBowman12: @jeffzeleny just another generic CNN part time wannabe journalist !" @CNN still doesn't get it. They will never learn! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016

"@FiIibuster: @jeffzeleny Pathetic - you have no sufficient evidence that Donald Trump did not suffer from voter fraud, shame! Bad reporter. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016

.@CNN is so embarrassed by their total (100%) support of Hillary Clinton, and yet her loss in a landslide, that they don't know what to do. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016

Mr Trump has still delivered no evidence to support his earlier claim that millions of people voted illegally.

He said: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

It was later reported that the false claim may have been based on an unverified tweet spread by far-right and conspiracy websites.

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On John McCain Asked about Senator John McCain – a former POW in Vietnam – at the Family Leadership Summit in Ames, Iowa: “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” 18 July 2015

2/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” 7 August 2015

3/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” 18 December 2015

4/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” 23 January 2016

5/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." 7 February 2016

6/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” 3 March 2016

7/18 On Hillary Clinton “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” 27 July 2016

8/18 On Captain Khan's parents In an interview with ABC news after the Democratic National Convention, Trump speculates about the parents of killed Muslim soldier Captain Humayun Khan: "I saw him. He was, you know, very emotional. And probably looked like — a nice guy to me. His wife, if you look at his wife, she was standing there. She had nothing to say. She probably — maybe she wasn't allowed to have anything to say." 30 July

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." 9 August 2016

10/18 On President Barack Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” 10 August

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” 7 October 2016

12/18 On Hillary Clinton's emails “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” 9 October 2016

13/18 On avoiding income tax Also during the second debate, he was confronted about evading federal income tax for almost two decades: "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." 9 October 2016

14/18 On his accusers Referring to one of his accusers at a rally in North Carolina: “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” 14 October 2016

15/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” 19 October

16/18 On pro-life policies At the third debate he was asked about his pro-life policies: “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable." 19 October 2016

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” 20 October

18/18 On suing his accusers Speaking at the iconic Gettysburg Address in Pennsylvania, he promised to get his revenge against the more than dozen women who have accused him of sexual assault. "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” 22 October

A number of pro-Trump websites claimed three million illegal immigrants voted in the US election, but did not provide any solid evidence to back the claim up.

Instead, the majority referred to a tweet posted in the days following the election by a man called Greg Phillips, who identified himself as the founder of an "election fraud reporting app".

Anger among Trump supporters on Twitter was reignited after Green Party candidate Jill Stein called for a recount of votes in Wisconsin.