Cam Newton Benched for 1st Play vs. Seahawks, Derek Anderson Given Start
Cam Newton Benched for 1st Play vs. Seahawks, Derek Anderson Given Start
Quarterback Cam Newton did not start for the Carolina Panthers in the team's Dec. 4 game against the Seattle Seahawks . According to Joe Person of the , Newton was healthy but was benched due to a coach's decision. Scott Fowler of the reported a dress-code violation prompted the decision. According to Ashley Stroehlein of WBTV, Newton violated the dress code by not wearing a tie.                 Head coach Ron Rivera said after the game it was completely his decision, and he made it because he treats all players on the team the same, per Max Henson of the Panthers' official website. On Wednesday, Rivera once again explained his decision, telling reporters that if he didn't do it "chaos could ensue."                 Golden State Warriors star and noted Panthers fan Stephen Curry certainly didn't expect to see Anderson taking snaps: Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP  The majority of the fanbase likely had the same reaction when the reigning MVP wasn't under center for the first play. Newton has only missed two starts in his six-year career, both coming during the 2014 season. This game will officially be the first time he came off the bench, and the final result will not end up on his personal win-loss record. Carolina's defense was able to hold Seattle to a field goal after the opening interception, but the star quarterback still had to enter the game facing a deficit on the second possession.

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Quarterback Cam Newton did not start for the Carolina Panthers in the team's Dec. 4 game against the Seattle Seahawks.

Backup Derek Anderson got the start for the Panthers and responded by throwing an interception on the first play from scrimmage. Newton returned to the field on the next possession.

According to Joe Person of the Charlotte Observer, Newton was healthy but was benched due to a coach's decision.

Scott Fowler of the Charlotte Observer reported a dress-code violation prompted the decision. According to Ashley Stroehlein of WBTV, Newton violated the dress code by not wearing a tie.

Head coach Ron Rivera said after the game it was completely his decision, and he made it because he treats all players on the team the same, per Max Henson of the Panthers' official website. On Wednesday, Rivera once again explained his decision, telling reporters that if he didn't do it "chaos could ensue."

"Coach has rules in place and we have to abide by them," Newton told reporters on Dec. 4. "We did not lose this game because of a tie."

Newton said others offered him a tie, but he didn't have a shirt to wear it with, per Person.

Golden State Warriors star and noted Panthers fan Stephen Curry certainly didn't expect to see Anderson taking snaps:

Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP — Stephen Curry (@StephenCurry30) December 5, 2016

The majority of the fanbase likely had the same reaction when the reigning MVP wasn't under center for the first play.

Newton has only missed two starts in his six-year career, both coming during the 2014 season. This game will officially be the first time he came off the bench, and the final result will not end up on his personal win-loss record.

Carolina's defense was able to hold Seattle to a field goal after the opening interception, but the star quarterback still had to enter the game facing a deficit on the second possession.