Kodak Black Is Still Making Jail Food As A Free Man
Kodak Black Is Still Making Jail Food As A Free Man
There’s a bit of a history of jail and prison cuisine in hip-hop. Ja Rule and Lil Wayne infamously bonded over their favorite prison snacks, and Mobb Deep’s Prodigy recently teamed up with writer Kathy Iandoli for . Kodak Black can add his name to the list of jail food aficionados thanks to a few recent tweets. After jokingly admitting he forgot how to boil eggs while he was locked up, Kodak tweeted a picture of a Sunday meal that would fit right in with the most notable correctional facility cuisine. I Forgot How To Boil Eggs Suffice it to say Kodak is probably not reaching his recommended daily allowance of anything healthy. Some rough estimates would put Kodak’s two slices of white bread at roughly 140 calories, with 200 milligrams of sodium. A slice of what appears to be processed cheese food would earn Kodak another 70 calories and 230 milligrams of sodium. And those two snack size bags of chips adds another 300 calories to the mix. None of this includes the condiments, and it’s unclear if the concoction in Kodak’s Tupperware or his industrial size sandwich bag constitutes the “burrito” Lil Wayne referenced in his prison memoir. A photo posted by Project Baby ( ) on Dec 4, 2016 at 9: PST Kodak’s fans quickly responded to the pics, with several Instagram comments joking about Kodak gaining the weight Gucci Mane lost while in prison. Those familiar with prison commissary shouted out the nicknames of Kodak's meals, with one Instagram user referring to it as “a spread” in California’s prison system. Another user called it the “we got food at home now starter pack.” With a house arrest listed as part of the terms of his release, Kodak will presumably have time to record more music with producer Dubba-AA and expand his culinary repertoire. After being extradited from Florida to South Carolina to face sexual battery charges, t

There’s a bit of a history of jail and prison cuisine in hip-hop. Ja Rule and Lil Wayne infamously bonded over their favorite prison snacks, and Mobb Deep’s Prodigy recently teamed up with writer Kathy Iandoli for Commissary Kitchen: My Infamous Prison Cookbook. Kodak Black can add his name to the list of jail food aficionados thanks to a few recent tweets. After jokingly admitting he forgot how to boil eggs while he was locked up, Kodak tweeted a picture of a Sunday meal that would fit right in with the most notable correctional facility cuisine.

I Forgot How To Boil Eggs 🤔 — Kodak Black ( @KodakBlack1k ) December 4, 2016

Suffice it to say Kodak is probably not reaching his recommended daily allowance of anything healthy. Some rough estimates would put Kodak’s two slices of white bread at roughly 140 calories, with 200 milligrams of sodium. A slice of what appears to be processed cheese food would earn Kodak another 70 calories and 230 milligrams of sodium. And those two snack size bags of chips adds another 300 calories to the mix. None of this includes the condiments, and it’s unclear if the concoction in Kodak’s Tupperware or his industrial size sandwich bag constitutes the “burrito” Lil Wayne referenced in his prison memoir.

A photo posted by Project Baby (@kodakblack) on Dec 4, 2016 at 9:29am PST

Kodak’s fans quickly responded to the pics, with several Instagram comments joking about Kodak gaining the weight Gucci Mane lost while in prison. Those familiar with prison commissary shouted out the nicknames of Kodak's meals, with one Instagram user referring to it as “a spread” in California’s prison system. Another user called it the “we got food at home now starter pack.”

With a house arrest listed as part of the terms of his release, Kodak will presumably have time to record more music with producer Dubba-AA and expand his culinary repertoire. After being extradited from Florida to South Carolina to face sexual battery charges, the Pompano Beach, Florida rapper posted $100,000 bail and was released from jail on Dec. 1.