Philadelphia Eagles will look to sign DeSean Jackson in offseason
Sources: Eagles likely to pursue WR Jackson
Sources: Eagles likely to pursue WR Jackson ESPN's NFL MVP Poll: Brady, Stafford parked behind Carr Regretful OBJ: 'Stevie Wonder' could see calls Frustrated Bills QB Taylor: 'I'm done talking' Peterson: Will only return if Vikings still in hunt Panthers' Kuechly practices; still in protocol Steelers' Bell: 'My goons up front' have my back Source: Browns plan to start RG3 on Sunday Derek Carr hasn't been an MVP against the Chiefs Bill Belichick could have been the Ravens' first coach 20 years ago Games that will shift the playoff picture: Week 14 Seahawks DE Michael Bennett on Aaron Rodgers, disloyalty and time Trevor Siemian spreads holiday cheer, expected to return to lineup Antonio Brown and Ben Roethlisberger call each other 'Ronald' and 'Billy' after TD Joe Thomas' 9,684 straight shifts in the Factory of Sadness Elway, Warner experienced MVP encore struggles like Cam Newton Late-season predictions for every NFL team Chiefs WR Maclin to return for Raiders matchup Stanford RB McCaffrey entering 2017 NFL draft Future employers beware: Ryan Fitzpatrick has been historically bad in 2016 Pack sack leader Perry may be done for season 49ers' Kelly: Would never leave a job in season Scouting the competition: Players to watch in each Week 14 game Fitzgerald, Marshall among Walter Payton noms '94 Heisman winner Salaam dead at age 42 David Johnson heads list of most popular players on fantasy football playoff teams Updated Total QBR rankings entering Week 14 of the NFL season Cowboys command control of Week 14 Power Rankings 1 Related 2016 NFL Week 14 playoff scenarios What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 13: Just how good is the AFC West? Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment ESPN NFL Insider Joined ESPN in 2009 Former president of the Pro Football Writers of America and the author of four books Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment The Philadelphia Eagles are likely to pursue a reunion with Washington Redskins wide receiver DeSean Jackson during the offseason, sources told ESPN. Multiple teams believe that Jackson, who will be an unrestricted free agent after the season, could return to Philadelphia. The Eagles would benefit from the addition of a speedy deep threat, and Jackson and Eagles coach Doug Pederson are big admirers of each other, sources said. The Redskins are unlikely to be able to use the franchise tag on the 30-year-old receiver, as they also look to reach deals with quarterback Kirk Cousins and wide receiver Pierre Garcon . Jackson spent his first six seasons in Philadelphia, reaching three Pro Bowls and posting 356 receptions for 6,117 yards and 32 touchdowns, before signing with Washington before the 2014 season. Washington and Philadelphia meet next Sunday. The Redskins won the season's first matchup 27-20 with Jackson contributing four catches for 55 yards. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Philadelphia Eagles are likely to pursue a reunion with Washington Redskins wide receiver DeSean Jackson during the offseason, sources told ESPN.

Multiple teams believe that Jackson, who will be an unrestricted free agent after the season, could return to Philadelphia. The Eagles would benefit from the addition of a speedy deep threat, and Jackson and Eagles coach Doug Pederson are big admirers of each other, sources said.

The Redskins are unlikely to be able to use the franchise tag on the 30-year-old receiver, as they also look to reach deals with quarterback Kirk Cousins and wide receiver Pierre Garcon.

Jackson spent his first six seasons in Philadelphia, reaching three Pro Bowls and posting 356 receptions for 6,117 yards and 32 touchdowns, before signing with Washington before the 2014 season.

Washington and Philadelphia meet next Sunday. The Redskins won the season's first matchup 27-20 with Jackson contributing four catches for 55 yards.