IBMVoice: 6 Things To Know About Mobile Wallets Before You Use Them This Holiday Season
IBMVoice: 6 Things To Know About Mobile Wallets Before You Use Them This Holiday Season
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  IBM       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Danny Fundinger, Ph.D.

As mobile wallets gain popularity, particularly during the holiday season, organizations are setting up mobile wallet strategies to interact with their customers. But, to put these strategies together, they need to better understand mobile wallets. The varied definitions of mobile wallets have led to some confusion, by both organizations and users.

To better understand mobile wallets, here are six things you need to know about what they are, what they can do, how they work and the business opportunities that they present.

1. What is a mobile wallet?

A mobile wallet is the digital equivalent of a physical wallet -- or a container to store digitized valuables, such as credit cards, coupons, IDs or loyalty cards. These valuables can be stored as numbers, QR codes, certificates or pictures. A mobile wallet is a lot like a virtual vault for sensitive information.

2. What do mobile wallets allow users to do?

Mobile wallets enable users to:

Make payments

Use coupons and participate in loyalty programs

Access transportation and event tickets

Provide access to cars, buildings, hotel rooms and other access points

Store identity information

3. How can mobile wallets be divided into "proximity" and "remote" wallets?

The differences consist of their design, use cases and technical capabilities.

A proximity wallet is used when there is a direct interaction between a buyer and a seller who are physically near each other. Technology that can be used in such a wallet includes WiFii, near field communication (NFC) and Bluetooth.

Keep in mind, however, that these technologies do not define the wallet, nor are they mandatory. An example of a proximity wallet is when consumers hold their smartphones over checkout terminals to pay with one of their digitized valuables.

A remote wallet is used when the buyer and seller are not physically near each other. An example of this type of wallet is PayPal. Personal information is saved on PayPal’s servers, where money can be digitally sent and received to make online transactions.

4. How can mobile wallets be divided further into "umbrella" and "integrated" wallets?

Umbrella wallets are loosely coupled with services and are connected with stand-alone applications. PayPal would be considered a remote umbrella wallet as it is integrated into stand-alone applications, such as eBay, Amazon and other e-commerce sites.

In contrast, integrated wallets have all services fully integrated. A bank card, for example, within an integrated mobile wallet, would not require its own app.

5. How can we use mobile wallets in our daily lives?

Mobile wallets allow users to purchase food, clothes and tickets, unlock their homes remotely, access company networks, enter stadiums for concerts, apply discounts and more. Having all the essentials in one place helps users simplify their lives.

6. How do mobile wallets provide insight about customers?

Customers' data can be collected and analyzed to the benefit of both users and vendors. Mobile wallet insights allow organizations to capture data, engage with customers and send them personalized offers. For example, customers can receive targeted offers and coupons based on their shopping history through mobile wallet "push" notifications.

Mobile wallets are among the connected devices in the Internet of Things (IoT) as we enter the era of cognitive computing.

With a better understanding of what mobile wallets are and how they can be used, both organizations and users can better comprehend how they can benefit from them. Then organizations will be better able to set up mobile wallet strategies that best fit their business and their customers.

Tweet this: Learn 6 things about mobile wallets this holiday season from @IBM's @mpaymentsblog @Forbes

Danny Fundinger, Ph.D., is a Managing Consultant, specializing in Mobile Payments and Mobile Wallets, at IBM Global Business Services.

To learn more about the new era of business, visit ibm.com/cognitive.

A version of this story appeared on IBM's Mobile Business Insights blog.