Twitter Reacts to the Insanely Confusing and Mind-Shattering 'Westworld' Finale
Twitter Reacts to the Insanely Confusing and Mind-Shattering 'Westworld' Finale
The season finale premiered on Sunday night, and just when fans thought they had everything figured out, the series writers threw one last curve ball (or a couple). While the season 1 conclusion didn't exactly paint the clearest picture about what the hell is going on in the park, it did provide more analysis on the hosts and the origins of the alternate reality. Fans are probably still scratching their heads after this ending. Viewers took to Twitter shortly after the 90-minute episode, posting their predictions about Bernard, Wyatt, and whether there would be showdown between head Madam Maeve (played by Thandie Newton ) and her army against the creators of the amusement park. Actor Jimmi Simpson, who plays William, the unwitting park guest and Dolores' ( Evan Rachel Wood ) love interest, suggested ahead of the finale that fans had not figured out the show's huge twist, but it seems that some of the fan theories weren't too far off. [SPOILER ALERT] Many predictions about the identity of the "man in black" were proven correct, as well as thoughts concerning the whereabouts of Elsie (Shannon Woodward). Nevertheless, there were some surprises and plot twists thanks to Teddy's (James Marsden) newfound courage, Dolores' rebellion, and maybe even a brand new narrative (hint hint). Also there were some very significant curve balls thrown regarding who was actually controlling the hosts as well. HBO confirmed that has been renewed for a second season. Unfortunately for viewers, the sci-fi thriller probably won't be coming back until some time in 2018 due to the amount of production and tech that goes into creating the big world, programming executive Casey Bloys confirmed to . Although it's a long way away, fans can most likely look forward to a more in depth exploration of all that the park has to offer and how the hosts will fight to break out of their controlled environments. Read some reactions on what just happened, below. the !! Theory confirmed! William is the man in black!!!! # Doesn't it seem likely Elsie will confirm suspicions about Bernard in tonight's ? DOLORES SPARE US SOME TIME TO BREATHE  # Teddy to the rescue!!!! # holy hell. This is out of control. # DEAD!! Swear I would need proof that I wasn't a host 😩. # Teddy !!!!!! Finally going to man up!!  # I can't believe this right now # IM SHOOK!!!!!! I have chills!! # It was all the new narrative!  Ford's new narrative is clearly about William's hero complex. EVEN MORE CONFUSED NOW # is too much Watching # like.... pic.twitter.com/ # got my brain all over the place #

The Westworld season finale premiered on Sunday night, and just when fans thought they had everything figured out, the series writers threw one last curve ball (or a couple). While the season 1 conclusion didn't exactly paint the clearest picture about what the hell is going on in the park, it did provide more analysis on the hosts and the origins of the alternate reality. Fans are probably still scratching their heads after this ending.

Viewers took to Twitter shortly after the 90-minute episode, posting their predictions about Bernard, Wyatt, and whether there would be showdown between head Madam Maeve (played by Thandie Newton) and her army against the creators of the amusement park. Actor Jimmi Simpson, who plays William, the unwitting park guest and Dolores' (Evan Rachel Wood) love interest, suggested ahead of the finale that fans had not figured out the show's huge twist, but it seems that some of the fan theories weren't too far off.

[SPOILER ALERT] Many predictions about the identity of the "man in black" were proven correct, as well as thoughts concerning the whereabouts of Elsie (Shannon Woodward). Nevertheless, there were some surprises and plot twists thanks to Teddy's (James Marsden) newfound courage, Dolores' rebellion, and maybe even a brand new narrative (hint hint). Also there were some very significant curve balls thrown regarding who was actually controlling the hosts as well.

HBO confirmed that Westworld has been renewed for a second season. Unfortunately for viewers, the sci-fi thriller probably won't be coming back until some time in 2018 due to the amount of production and tech that goes into creating the big world, programming executive Casey Bloys confirmed to Entertainment Weekly. Although it's a long way away, fans can most likely look forward to a more in depth exploration of all that the park has to offer and how the hosts will fight to break out of their controlled environments.

Read some reactions on what just happened, below.

Whatt the fuuuuck!! Theory confirmed! William is the man in black!!!! #Westworld — Franchesco Torres ( @Franchesco_T17 ) December 5, 2016

Doesn't it seem likely Elsie will confirm suspicions about Bernard in tonight's ep? — Westworld Theory Bot ( @westworldbot ) December 5, 2016

DOLORES SPARE US SOME TIME TO BREATHE JEEZUS #Westworld — champagnedaxi ( @daxramires ) December 5, 2016

Westworld holy hell. — John Dwyer ( @Dwyer0022 ) December 5, 2016

This is out of control. #Westworld — Cristina Rosetti ( @CristinaMartaR ) December 5, 2016

DEAD!! Swear I would need proof that I wasn't a host 😩. #Westworld — Sasha Owens ( @sashaowenss ) December 5, 2016

I can't believe this right now #westworld — Samonster✨ ( @samonster914 ) December 5, 2016

It was all the new narrative! Wtf @WestworldHBO — c ✨ ( @cgzxo ) December 5, 2016

Ford's new narrative is clearly about William's hero complex. — Westworld Theory Bot ( @westworldbot ) December 5, 2016

EVEN MORE CONFUSED NOW #Westworld — happybluej ( @happybluej ) December 5, 2016

westworld is too much — FUCK TRUMP ( @deANDICHRIST ) December 5, 2016