Earl Thomas of Seattle Seahawks tweets about retiring after exiting vs. Carolina Panthers with lower left leg injury
Seahawks' Thomas breaks leg, mulls retirement
Seahawks' Thomas breaks leg, mulls retirement Patriots unseat Cowboys for No. 1 in Week 15 Power Rankings 1 Related New York Giants 18th in Vegas NFL power ranks Jerry on QB switch: 'Know it when you see it' Source: Dolphins to put center Pouncey on IR Source: Fins signing Yates to back up QB Moore Ravens, Browns, Cards to make London debuts NFL teams can choose own cancer cause in '17 Police report: Floyd changed story during arrest What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 14: Giants surging, Broncos in trouble 1 Related Full list of Week 15 NFL lines Why more London games? NFL eyeing 400 million worldwide fans Vote: How should Dallas address Dak's struggles? Tom Brady is X factor in flawed AFC playoff field Ravens show resiliency, but Patriots on different level Jack Del Rio on Marquette King: We can't have 15-yard penalties out of punter How 'Jerry Maguire' ruined the sports agency industry What the TD celebration in 'Jerry Maguire' would look like now Manziel to Carr: 'Take you up' on friendship offer Projected 2017 NFL draft order: Browns with two picks in top 10 Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft Rams had no choice but to fire Jeff Fisher Rex on hot seat: 'Not signing up for a dismissal' A verdict many applaud is still a total loss for New Orleans Matchups that could take down Super Bowl contenders Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? Ron Rivera: Facing sometimes stubborn Josh Norman will be fun Patriots' push costs bettor $100K, 15-leg parlay Best and worst QBs of Week 14: a low point for QB play For once, Dak Prescott could not find answers Dickerson on Rams' firing Fisher: 'It was time' NFL playoff picture: Giants delay Cowboys' clinching party Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14 Ryan Clark joins Scott Van Pelt to discuss the severity of the Seahawks missing their main defender in Earl Thomas after he suffered a cracked tibia during the game against the Panthers. (1:52) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covered the Philadelphia Eagles for Philadelphia Magazine and Philly.com from 2008 to 2015. Covered the Baltimore Ravens and the NFL for BaltimoreSun.com from 2006 to 2008. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment SEATTLE -- Seahawks safety Earl Thomas broke his left leg during Sunday night's 40-7 blowout win over the Carolina Panthers and will be out at least six weeks, Pete Carroll said. "He broke his leg tonight, so I don't know what that means, but it's always six weeks anyway," Carroll said. "I don't know how severe it is, but it's very unfortunate. "He ran into Kam [Chancellor ], and Kam's made of steel, so that's going to hurt, and it sure did." Thomas, 27, collided with Chancellor while breaking up a pass intended for tight end Greg Olsen with 10:40 left in the second quarter. Thomas tried to get up and walk the injury off but was unable to and dropped back down to the turf. Members of the Seahawks' medical training staff carried Thomas off the field so he wouldn't have to put weight on his left leg. He was later taken off the field on a cart. Carroll said he didn't know definitively whether Thomas has a chance of returning at some point this season. During the game, Thomas tweeted that he had "no regrets" but that there was a lot running through his mind, "including retirement." This game has been so good to me no regrets.. A lot is running through my mind including retirement thanks for all the prayers. — Earl Thomas (@Earl_Thomas) December 5, 2016 He also directed a playful jab at Chancellor. Kam you owe me a steak . Haha — Earl Thomas (@Earl_Thomas) December 5, 2016 Thomas' teammates warned afterward not to take the retirement talk too seriously. "We all talked to him. He's in good spirits," said cornerback Richard Sherman . "He's a strong-willed dude, so he'll be fine." "All of us consider retirement just about every game," Sherman continued. "And when you get an injury like that, a lot of stuff goes through your mind. "I would think it's a little bit of an exaggeration." Chancellor offered his take. "When you get injured, it becomes very emotional," Chancellor said. "Sometimes you say things you might not mean. Sometimes you say things you might mean. It's one of those things you just have to let him sit back and breathe, let him sit back and go through his process. "People are going to take it how they're going to take it. At the end of the day, he's going to make the decision he wants to make; but right now, it's an emotional battle at this moment." Thomas had never missed a game in his NFL career until Week 12, when he was sidelined with a hamstring injury. That broke a streak of 118 straight starts (regular season and playoffs) since he was drafted in 2010. Steven Terrell will take over at free safety for the Seahawks. He has made one start during his three-year career. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Ryan Clark joins Scott Van Pelt to discuss the severity of the Seahawks missing their main defender in Earl Thomas after he suffered a cracked tibia during the game against the Panthers. (1:52)

SEATTLE -- Seahawks safety Earl Thomas broke his left leg during Sunday night's 40-7 blowout win over the Carolina Panthers and will be out at least six weeks, Pete Carroll said.

"He broke his leg tonight, so I don't know what that means, but it's always six weeks anyway," Carroll said. "I don't know how severe it is, but it's very unfortunate.

Editor's Picks What the Seahawks lose with Earl Thomas sidelined The Seahawks will try to replace Earl Thomas with untested safety Steven Terrell and may also tweak the scheme to better fit the personnel.

Thomas Rawls, Tyler Lockett have Seahawks back on track Last week, Pete Carroll insisted his team's offensive performance was just a hiccup. After a 40-7 win Sunday night, it seems Carroll was right. 1 Related

"He ran into Kam [Chancellor], and Kam's made of steel, so that's going to hurt, and it sure did."

Thomas, 27, collided with Chancellor while breaking up a pass intended for tight end Greg Olsen with 10:40 left in the second quarter. Thomas tried to get up and walk the injury off but was unable to and dropped back down to the turf.

Members of the Seahawks' medical training staff carried Thomas off the field so he wouldn't have to put weight on his left leg. He was later taken off the field on a cart.

Carroll said he didn't know definitively whether Thomas has a chance of returning at some point this season.

During the game, Thomas tweeted that he had "no regrets" but that there was a lot running through his mind, "including retirement."

This game has been so good to me no regrets.. A lot is running through my mind including retirement thanks for all the prayers. — Earl Thomas (@Earl_Thomas) December 5, 2016

He also directed a playful jab at Chancellor.

Kam you owe me a steak . Haha — Earl Thomas (@Earl_Thomas) December 5, 2016

Thomas' teammates warned afterward not to take the retirement talk too seriously.

"We all talked to him. He's in good spirits," said cornerback Richard Sherman. "He's a strong-willed dude, so he'll be fine."

"All of us consider retirement just about every game," Sherman continued. "And when you get an injury like that, a lot of stuff goes through your mind.

"I would think it's a little bit of an exaggeration."

Chancellor offered his take.

"When you get injured, it becomes very emotional," Chancellor said. "Sometimes you say things you might not mean. Sometimes you say things you might mean. It's one of those things you just have to let him sit back and breathe, let him sit back and go through his process.

"People are going to take it how they're going to take it. At the end of the day, he's going to make the decision he wants to make; but right now, it's an emotional battle at this moment."

Thomas had never missed a game in his NFL career until Week 12, when he was sidelined with a hamstring injury. That broke a streak of 118 straight starts (regular season and playoffs) since he was drafted in 2010.

Steven Terrell will take over at free safety for the Seahawks. He has made one start during his three-year career.