Adler shotgun: Barnaby Joyce calls for more relaxed restrictions on controversial firearm



Adler shotgun: Barnaby Joyce calls for more relaxed restrictions on controversial firearm

Updated

Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce has called for more relaxed restrictions on the controversial Adler shotgun than most states and territories are willing to consider.

Key points: Commonwealth maintains import ban on Adler A110 shotgun

Mike Baird indicates he will not oppose moves to restrict firearm

Barnaby Joyce says category B would allow firearm to be used by shooting club members

The Commonwealth has maintained an import ban on Adler A110 shotguns with a magazine capacity of more than five rounds until states and territory governments agree on a new classification for the firearm.

The nation's justice ministers could not reach consensus at a Council of Australian Governments meeting in October, with New South Wales wanting the gun to be more readily available.

But on Sunday, NSW Premier Mike Baird indicated he would not oppose moves to restrict the firearm to professional shooting uses only in line with other state and territory governments.

The concession may pave way for the firearm to be imported with the Council of Australian Governments set to meet on Friday.

Mr Joyce told 7.30 the Nationals Party had a clear view on the Adler shotgun but understood its reclassification was a matter for the state and territory governments.

"I think it should be in category B and if other people have a different idea then that is a discussion for them," he said.

Mr Joyce said category B restrictions would be tougher than current arrangements but allowed the firearm to be used by shooting club members.

"We hope those state ministers believe that category B will do the job, but if they believe something else that's for them to take up with their constituency," he said.

The Nationals' leader said the reclassification debate had nothing to do with gun crime.

"Overwhelmingly, guns that are used in crimes are from illegal sources," he said.

"Either they have never been registered or were smuggling into Australia or they were stolen.

"Law-abiding citizens are not the ones who decide to go out and rob banks."

Category D would make it available to 'very few': PM

Nationals' MPs have warned there could be political backlash if the Adler shotgun was placed into the more restrictive category D.

The Member for Parkes in the NSW Central West, Mark Coulton, called on the states and territories to disregard emotional arguments about the gun.

"I think a lot of people that are concerned about this issue are thinking that this could be the thin-end of the wedge," he told AM.

Discussions about the gun dominated politics last month when Labor accused the Government of being willing to trade "guns for votes" with crossbench senator David Leyonhjelm.

Nationals' MP Ken O'Dowd told AM a category D classification was "a little bit harsh" and could cause angst in rural communities.

On Sunday, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said sales of the gun would be tightly controlled if states and territories agreed on the category D classification.

"Different proposals have been mentioned but if, for example, lever action guns with a magazine of more than five rounds were classified as category D, that would be available to very few users at all," Mr Turnbull said.

"Basically [for] feral pest controllers, generally working for governments.

"When agreement is reached then the import rules will be changed so that they conform with the classification."

Topics: government-and-politics, federal-government, laws, australia

First posted