Steph Curry Is Really Pissed That Carolina Panthers Benched Cam Newton Against Seattle Seahawks
Steph Curry Is Really Pissed That Carolina Panthers Benched Cam Newton Against Seattle Seahawks 
The NFL's Sunday Night Football game on NBC between the Panthers (4-7) and Seahawks (7-3) literally got off to an odd start for Panthers fans and NFL reporters. The Panthers didn't start the NFL's reigning MVP, Cam Newton, as their quarterback. Instead, they started their backup quarterback Derek Anderson. As you hear in the clip above, this confused the commentators and a lot of people watching the game since this switch was completely unannounced before the kickoff. Derek Anderson? #SNF  pic.twitter.com/Fmxj4stvCo One of the Carolina Panthers fans watching this happen was Steph Curry . The NBA's two-time MVP is universally known as one of the team's most famous fans . The ever-chill Curry angrily tweeted his dissent for the team not starting Cam. Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP As for Cam being benched, some NFL insiders were immediately on their due diligence to find a reason why Cam was benched for their first possession series. It has been cited for "disciplinary reasons" that was decided by Panthers head coach Ron Rivera. Spoke w/Panthers PR man Steven Drummond. He says Cam Newton is healthy & this was a decision made by head coach Ron Rivera. A potential explanation for why Cam Newton did not start tonight: https://t.co/LSMBJkNoaz The "reasons" that warranted Rivera's decision to bench Newton was because he reportedly didn't wear a tie before the game. Cam Newton violated the team dress code by not wearing a tie, per source. #CARvsSEA This is ironic because Cam is ubiquitously known for his eccentric, gaudy suit wardrobe . Panthers fans were not pleased with Anderson's production, as he threw an interception to start the game. Of course, Twitter had some fun with that. Cam Newton was benched tonight for disciplinary reasons.  Derek Anderson's first throw ... a pick.  It's a mess in Carolina. Free advice: the @panthers should start Cam Newton whenever possible. Classy move on Derek Andersons part to not show up Cam Newton by trying 2 steal his job. Cam coud learn alot from that Panthers starting Derek Anderson over Cam Newton... #SNF  pic.twitter.com/guDbN4XlYg sportstips@complex.com

The NFL's Sunday Night Football game on NBC between the Panthers (4-7) and Seahawks (7-3) literally got off to an odd start for Panthers fans and NFL reporters. The Panthers didn't start the NFL's reigning MVP, Cam Newton, as their quarterback. Instead, they started their backup quarterback Derek Anderson.

As you hear in the clip above, this confused the commentators and a lot of people watching the game since this switch was completely unannounced before the kickoff.

One of the Carolina Panthers fans watching this happen was Steph Curry. The NBA's two-time MVP is universally known as one of the team's most famous fans. The ever-chill Curry angrily tweeted his dissent for the team not starting Cam.

Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP — Stephen Curry (@StephenCurry30) December 5, 2016

As for Cam being benched, some NFL insiders were immediately on their due diligence to find a reason why Cam was benched for their first possession series. It has been cited for "disciplinary reasons" that was decided by Panthers head coach Ron Rivera.

Spoke w/Panthers PR man Steven Drummond. He says Cam Newton is healthy & this was a decision made by head coach Ron Rivera. — Black & Blue Review (@BlackBlueReview) December 5, 2016

A potential explanation for why Cam Newton did not start tonight: https://t.co/LSMBJkNoaz — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) December 5, 2016

The "reasons" that warranted Rivera's decision to bench Newton was because he reportedly didn't wear a tie before the game.

Cam Newton violated the team dress code by not wearing a tie, per source. #CARvsSEA — Ashley Stroehlein (@ashstro) December 5, 2016

This is ironic because Cam is ubiquitously known for his eccentric, gaudy suit wardrobe.

Panthers fans were not pleased with Anderson's production, as he threw an interception to start the game. Of course, Twitter had some fun with that.

Cam Newton was benched tonight for disciplinary reasons.



Derek Anderson's first throw ... a pick.



It's a mess in Carolina. — uSTADIUM (@uSTADIUM) December 5, 2016

Free advice: the @panthers should start Cam Newton whenever possible. — Rich Eisen (@richeisen) December 5, 2016

Classy move on Derek Andersons part to not show up Cam Newton by trying 2 steal his job. Cam coud learn alot from that — PFTCommenter (@PFTCommenter) December 5, 2016

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.