Another Kerala Man Hosts Lavish Wedding For Daughter, Recreates Delhi's Akshardham Temple
Another Kerala Man Hosts Lavish Wedding For Daughter, Recreates Delhi's Akshardham Temple
Another Kerala Man Hosts Lavish Wedding For Daughter, Recreates Delhi's Akshardham Temple Most of us are going through a serious crash crunch. It's not that we don't have money in our accounts, but we're certainly shackled by the inability to fetch money. In the midst of this, when you hear that people in India still have the money to throw a lavish 'Big Fat Indian Wedding', one cannot help but wonder how do they manage? Really, HOW? (Also read: Photos Of The Lavish Reddy Wedding Are Out And The Bling Is Making Our Eyes Water! ) In yet another big fat wedding in the times of cash crunch, hotelier Biju Ramesh got his daughter married in lavish style, with the reception venue modelled upon the famed Akshardham temple. While marriage is sacred, some Indians don't miss a chance celebrate with all that they have. Biju is the same person who hurled bribery charges against the previous UDF regime. The venue was in news for quite some time for its prodigal appearance. Its insides resemble Delhi's famous Akshardham temple, while the outside of the venue looked like the revered Mysore Palace. It also had a massive dining area which could accommodate 6,000 people at a time, with close to 100 dishes. What's funny is that Mr Biju claimed that even he faced a crash crunch. Well! (Also read Presenting Mr And Mrs Singh! Yuvraj Gets Hitched With Hazel And Here Are All The Pics ) His daughter, Megha tied the knot with Ajay Krishnan, son of senior Congress leader and former Revenue minister.

Most of us are going through a serious crash crunch. It's not that we don't have money in our accounts, but we're certainly shackled by the inability to fetch money.

In the midst of this, when you hear that people in India still have the money to throw a lavish 'Big Fat Indian Wedding', one cannot help but wonder how do they manage? Really, HOW?

(Also read: Photos Of The Lavish Reddy Wedding Are Out And The Bling Is Making Our Eyes Water!)

In yet another big fat wedding in the times of cash crunch, hotelier Biju Ramesh got his daughter married in lavish style, with the reception venue modelled upon the famed Akshardham temple.

travelplanet

While marriage is sacred, some Indians don't miss a chance celebrate with all that they have.

Biju is the same person who hurled bribery charges against the previous UDF regime.

The wedding happened in a local temple, but it was followed by a huge extravagant affair on an eight-acre land venue at Venpalavattam in Kerala.

twitter

The venue was in news for quite some time for its prodigal appearance. Its insides resemble Delhi's famous Akshardham temple, while the outside of the venue looked like the revered Mysore Palace.

More than 20,000 guests took part in the wedding reception, which was marked by various cultural and entertainment programmes, including dance and music events.

twitter

It also had a massive dining area which could accommodate 6,000 people at a time, with close to 100 dishes.

What's funny is that Mr Biju claimed that even he faced a crash crunch. Well!

(Also read Presenting Mr And Mrs Singh! Yuvraj Gets Hitched With Hazel And Here Are All The Pics)

His daughter, Megha tied the knot with Ajay Krishnan, son of senior Congress leader and former Revenue minister.

twitter

It's not even funny how people are blowing away their black wealth in broad daylight, and the bottom of the pyramid is still struggling to buy daily condiments.