Oakland Warehouse Fire: Names of Seven Victims Released
Oakland Warehouse Fire: Names of Seven Victims Released
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Oakland Warehouse Fire: Names of Seven Victims Released  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The City of Oakland has released the names of seven of the 33 people who have been confirmed dead in the wake of the three-alarm warehouse fire that took place during a dance-music party on Friday night. An eighth victim is a 17-year-old minor whose name will not be released. The victims’ families have been notified. The identified victims are: Cash Askew, 22, Oakland, Calif. David Clines, 35, Oakland, Calif. Nick Gomez-Hall, 25, Coronado, Calif. Sara Hoda, 30, Walnut Creek, Calif. Travis Hough, 35, Oakland, Calif. Donna Kellogg, 32, Oakland, Calif. Brandon Chase Wittenauer, 32, Hayward, Calif. At press time (9:30 p.m. ET), personnel from the Oakland Fire Department, Oakland Police Department, Alameda County Sheriff’s Office and Oakland Public Works Department were continuing with the recovery process; 30 percent of the building has been searched thus far. Sections of the building collapsed in the fire, making the recovery process exceptionally difficult and dangerous for emergency workers.  The converted warehouse was known as the "Ghost Ship" and has been described as a maze-like warren of artist studios. According to a statement, on Nov. 13 the city received complaints of blight and unpermitted interior construction at the building, and four days later a building inspector visited the property and verified the complaint but could not gain access to the building to confirm it. The cause of the fire is still under investigation. The Family Assistance Center, established by the Alameda County Coroner’s Bureau in coordination with the American Red Cross, is open at 2425 E. 12th Street in Oakland. Family members and friends looking to locate loved ones may go to the center. Grief counseling and resources are available to affected families. The city requests that only families and loved ones go to the Family Assistance Center at this time. The public may access the latest updated information on the City’s website at oaklandnet.com or at (510) 238-2181. The Oakland A’s have set up a site for donations for Oakland Fire Victims here .    FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

A firefighters walks on the roof of a smoldering building after a fire tore through a warehouse party early Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016 in Oakland, Calif.

The City of Oakland has released the names of seven of the 33 people who have been confirmed dead in the wake of the three-alarm warehouse fire that took place during a dance-music party on Friday night.

An eighth victim is a 17-year-old minor whose name will not be released. The victims’ families have been notified.

The identified victims are:

Cash Askew, 22, Oakland, Calif.

David Clines, 35, Oakland, Calif.

Nick Gomez-Hall, 25, Coronado, Calif.

Sara Hoda, 30, Walnut Creek, Calif.

Travis Hough, 35, Oakland, Calif.

Donna Kellogg, 32, Oakland, Calif.

Brandon Chase Wittenauer, 32, Hayward, Calif.

At press time (9:30 p.m. ET), personnel from the Oakland Fire Department, Oakland Police Department, Alameda County Sheriff’s Office and Oakland Public Works Department were continuing with the recovery process; 30 percent of the building has been searched thus far. Sections of the building collapsed in the fire, making the recovery process exceptionally difficult and dangerous for emergency workers.

The converted warehouse was known as the "Ghost Ship" and has been described as a maze-like warren of artist studios. According to a statement, on Nov. 13 the city received complaints of blight and unpermitted interior construction at the building, and four days later a building inspector visited the property and verified the complaint but could not gain access to the building to confirm it. The cause of the fire is still under investigation.

The Family Assistance Center, established by the Alameda County Coroner’s Bureau in coordination with the American Red Cross, is open at 2425 E. 12th Street in Oakland. Family members and friends looking to locate loved ones may go to the center. Grief counseling and resources are available to affected families. The city requests that only families and loved ones go to the Family Assistance Center at this time.

The public may access the latest updated information on the City’s website at oaklandnet.com or at (510) 238-2181.

The Oakland A’s have set up a site for donations for Oakland Fire Victims here.