Carolina Panthers coach Ron Rivera benched Cam Newton due to dress code violation
Newton 'stands by' Rivera's decision to bench him
Newton 'stands by' Rivera's decision to bench him ESPN's NFL MVP Poll: Brady, Stafford parked behind Carr 1 Related Derek Carr hasn't been an MVP against the Chiefs Regretful OBJ: 'Stevie Wonder' could see calls Frustrated Bills QB Taylor: 'I'm done talking' Peterson: Will only return if Vikings still in hunt Panthers' Kuechly practices; still in protocol Steelers' Bell: 'My goons up front' have my back Source: Browns plan to start RG3 on Sunday Derek Carr hasn't been an MVP against the Chiefs Games that will shift the playoff picture: Week 14 Bill Belichick could have been the Ravens' first coach 20 years ago Trevor Siemian spreads holiday cheer, expected to return to lineup Elway, Warner experienced MVP encore struggles like Cam Newton Antonio Brown and Ben Roethlisberger call each other 'Ronald' and 'Billy' after TD Joe Thomas' 9,684 straight shifts in the Factory of Sadness Late-season predictions for every NFL team Chiefs WR Maclin to return for Raiders matchup Stanford RB McCaffrey entering 2017 NFL draft Future employers beware: Ryan Fitzpatrick has been historically bad in 2016 Pack sack leader Perry may be done for season 49ers' Kelly: Would never leave a job in season Scouting the competition: Players to watch in each Week 14 game Fitzgerald, Marshall among Walter Payton noms '94 Heisman winner Salaam dead at age 42 Free-agent finds for Week 14 David Johnson heads list of most popular players on fantasy football playoff teams Colts' Jackson out final 4 games for PED use Updated Total QBR rankings entering Week 14 of the NFL season Cowboys command control of Week 14 Power Rankings 1 Related 2016 NFL Week 14 playoff scenarios James Harrison has a new weightlifting spotter: Mike Tomlin What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 13: Just how good is the AFC West? Bengals' Jeremy Hill on Joe McKnight: 'He was like a folk legend in Louisiana' Ryan Clark comments on Cam Newton being benched for the first play of the game due to a dress code violation. (1:43) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covered Panthers, NFL for 11 years More than 25 years experience covering NFL, college football and NASCAR Joined ESPN in 2006 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment SEATTLE -- Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton was held out of the opening series of Sunday night's 40-7 loss to the Seahawks due to a dress code violation. Panthers coach Ron Rivera said after the game that Newton committed "a travel dress code violation," adding that he made the decision to treat Newton "like I do all the other players on the team, and he didn't start." Newton offered further explanation. "I didn't follow dress code, and Coach told me I wasn't going to start. I stand by his decision," said Newton, who confirmed that the specific violation was that he was not wearing a tie on the team flight from San Jose, California, to Seattle on Saturday. Newton, dressed postgame in the same black turtleneck under a coat that he wore on the flight, attributed the issue to "a lack of communication on my part. I have to be clearer moving forward on how certain things are done." The Panthers had been in California for more than a week, having played in Oakland last Sunday. On Friday, players shipped most of the clothes they packed for the trip back to Charlotte, North Carolina. Newton explained that after sending his clothes, he did not have a dress shirt and was unable to find one in his size by the time he realized he needed it. He said that while he was offered a number of ties to wear, "I can't wear a tie with this," referring to his turtleneck. "I felt like I wore a similar outfit to this before and nothing was said," added Newton, "but [Rivera] has rules in place, and I have to abide by them. No person is greater than the next person." Derek Anderson started at quarterback and was intercepted on the first play by outside linebacker Mike Morgan on a pass intended for fullback Mike Tolbert . Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry , a noted Panthers fan, was perplexed by Newton's nonstart. Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP — Stephen Curry (@StephenCurry30) December 5, 2016 The Panthers held the Seahawks to a field goal after Morgan's pick, and Newton took the field for Carolina's second series. It was the second game this season the reigning NFL MVP had not started. He missed a Week 6 game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers with a concussion. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Ryan Clark comments on Cam Newton being benched for the first play of the game due to a dress code violation. (1:43)

SEATTLE -- Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton was held out of the opening series of Sunday night's 40-7 loss to the Seahawks due to a dress code violation.

Editor's Picks Did Ron Rivera draw a line in the sand for Cam Newton? Ron Rivera's task is to make sure the Cam Newton-attire incident doesn't become a bigger issue. When a team with high expectations is 4-8, sometimes the smallest of things can lead to a coach and a staff losing the locker room.

Dress code violation sums up the season for Cam Newton, Panthers Cam Newton's benching for the first play didn't lose the game, but it certainly set the tone for the Panthers' ugly loss to the Seahawks.

Vote: Did Ron Rivera make the right decision benching Cam Newton for a series? Did Ron Rivera make the right call or should he have overlooked Cam Newton's fashion violation? 2 Related

Panthers coach Ron Rivera said after the game that Newton committed "a travel dress code violation," adding that he made the decision to treat Newton "like I do all the other players on the team, and he didn't start."

Newton offered further explanation.

"I didn't follow dress code, and Coach told me I wasn't going to start. I stand by his decision," said Newton, who confirmed that the specific violation was that he was not wearing a tie on the team flight from San Jose, California, to Seattle on Saturday.

Newton, dressed postgame in the same black turtleneck under a coat that he wore on the flight, attributed the issue to "a lack of communication on my part. I have to be clearer moving forward on how certain things are done."

The Panthers had been in California for more than a week, having played in Oakland last Sunday. On Friday, players shipped most of the clothes they packed for the trip back to Charlotte, North Carolina.

Newton explained that after sending his clothes, he did not have a dress shirt and was unable to find one in his size by the time he realized he needed it.

He said that while he was offered a number of ties to wear, "I can't wear a tie with this," referring to his turtleneck.

"I felt like I wore a similar outfit to this before and nothing was said," added Newton, "but [Rivera] has rules in place, and I have to abide by them. No person is greater than the next person."

Derek Anderson started at quarterback and was intercepted on the first play by outside linebacker Mike Morgan on a pass intended for fullback Mike Tolbert.

Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry, a noted Panthers fan, was perplexed by Newton's nonstart.

Yeah. Y'all are gonna have to explain that one to me ASAP — Stephen Curry (@StephenCurry30) December 5, 2016

The Panthers held the Seahawks to a field goal after Morgan's pick, and Newton took the field for Carolina's second series.

It was the second game this season the reigning NFL MVP had not started. He missed a Week 6 game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers with a concussion.