CBREVoice: How To Turn Your Workplace Into A Desired Destination
CBREVoice: How To Turn Your Workplace Into A Desired Destination
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  CBRE       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As companies struggle to attract and retain top talent, many are turning to workplace design as a way to engage employees. Progressive companies no longer view office space as a necessary expense, but instead as a vibrant, productive place for employees to collaborate and drive business performance. Considering that employees spend about half of their waking hours at work, the office environment should aim to connect employees’ personal and professional lives and support and improve their well-being.  Here are four steps companies can take to create a workplace employees can’t wait to get to each day: To know what attracts people, it helps to understand them. Much of that focus today is on Millennials, who make up more than half of the U.S. labor force. However, a 2014 CBRE study shows that the things that are important to Millennials, including variety, choice, access and transparency, are equally important to older generations. This year, a follow-up CBRE study reaffirmed those findings, and also highlighted other factors driving job satisfaction across generations including compensation, business ethics, HR policy, learning opportunities and organizational culture. Not surprisingly, parents with young children were more interested in flexible work policies, which underscores the need for employers to look at life stages when trying to increase employee engagement. When it comes to the workplace itself, companies need office solutions that help them improve culture, connectivity, well-being and flexibility. Sure, technology enables employees to work from anywhere, but why not make the office a place they want to come to be inspired? Consider a report that shows 95 percent of people see face-to-face meetings as key to building long-term relationships. Only 20 percent saw the same results through virtual connections. “Even when employees have choices in where they work, they will come to the office more, not less, if you make the office the most effective place to connect with others and get their work done,” said Lenny Beaudoin, co-lead of the U.S. Workplace practice at CBRE. A mistake some organizations make when creating a modern office space is focusing too much on the bells and whistles and not enough on the basic needs to help workers get the job done. Some of the “nonnegotiables,” according to Beaudoin, include a wide variety of spaces that appeal to different work patterns and preferences, seamless technology, easy access to information and support of well-being. Think of the workplace not just as a space, but an opportunity to create a competitive advantage for your organization. Companies can do this by choosing a design that connects to their culture and brand. “This is more than posted slogans or walls painted in corporate colors,” said Beaudoin, adding that those things don’t necessarily influence behavior. Instead, he recommends building and reinforcing a brand through design, services and policies. An example could include concierge services that help busy parents manage daily tasks such as groceries and dry-cleaning, errands that would otherwise force employees to leave work. It’s not about perks, says Ashley Branca, experience services lead within CBRE’s workplace practice. “Instead, it’s about creating a positive connection to the experience of coming to the office by making it easier for your people to do the work you hired them to do.” She says these services support both business and employee needs and “are the most flexible resource an organization can invest in to signal the value it places in its people.” The result? “You create an environment that becomes a catalyst for the culture you want to encourage at work,” said Beaudoin. It’s also an opportunity to build a sense of pride among employees for their organization and their workplace.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By CBREVoice Team

As companies struggle to attract and retain top talent, many are turning to workplace design as a way to engage employees. Progressive companies no longer view office space as a necessary expense, but instead as a vibrant, productive place for employees to collaborate and drive business performance.

Considering that employees spend about half of their waking hours at work, the office environment should aim to connect employees’ personal and professional lives and support and improve their well-being.

CBRE’s Los Angeles office emphasizes health and wellness features for employees. Credit: Flashstock

Here are four steps companies can take to create a workplace employees can’t wait to get to each day:

1. Know What Employees Want

To know what attracts people, it helps to understand them. Much of that focus today is on Millennials, who make up more than half of the U.S. labor force.

However, a 2014 CBRE study shows that the things that are important to Millennials, including variety, choice, access and transparency, are equally important to older generations.

This year, a follow-up CBRE study reaffirmed those findings, and also highlighted other factors driving job satisfaction across generations including compensation, business ethics, HR policy, learning opportunities and organizational culture.

Not surprisingly, parents with young children were more interested in flexible work policies, which underscores the need for employers to look at life stages when trying to increase employee engagement.

When it comes to the workplace itself, companies need office solutions that help them improve culture, connectivity, well-being and flexibility.

2. Make Your Office A Productivity Hub

Sure, technology enables employees to work from anywhere, but why not make the office a place they want to come to be inspired?

Consider a Harvard Business Review report that shows 95 percent of people see face-to-face meetings as key to building long-term relationships. Only 20 percent saw the same results through virtual connections.

“Even when employees have choices in where they work, they will come to the office more, not less, if you make the office the most effective place to connect with others and get their work done,” said Lenny Beaudoin, co-lead of the U.S. Workplace practice at CBRE.

3. Prioritize Basic Functional Needs

A mistake some organizations make when creating a modern office space is focusing too much on the bells and whistles and not enough on the basic needs to help workers get the job done.

Some of the “nonnegotiables,” according to Beaudoin, include a wide variety of spaces that appeal to different work patterns and preferences, seamless technology, easy access to information and support of well-being.

4. Design For Delight

Think of the workplace not just as a space, but an opportunity to create a competitive advantage for your organization. Companies can do this by choosing a design that connects to their culture and brand.

“This is more than posted slogans or walls painted in corporate colors,” said Beaudoin, adding that those things don’t necessarily influence behavior.

Instead, he recommends building and reinforcing a brand through design, services and policies. An example could include concierge services that help busy parents manage daily tasks such as groceries and dry-cleaning, errands that would otherwise force employees to leave work.

It’s not about perks, says Ashley Branca, experience services lead within CBRE’s workplace practice.

“Instead, it’s about creating a positive connection to the experience of coming to the office by making it easier for your people to do the work you hired them to do.”

She says these services support both business and employee needs and “are the most flexible resource an organization can invest in to signal the value it places in its people.”

The result?

“You create an environment that becomes a catalyst for the culture you want to encourage at work,” said Beaudoin.

It’s also an opportunity to build a sense of pride among employees for their organization and their workplace.

To find out how your workplace can inspire your organization, download CBRE’s white paper “Designing the Workplace Experience.”