CSIRO, Energy Networks Australia back emissions trading scheme over RETs to lower power prices



CSIRO, Energy Networks Australia back emissions trading scheme over RETs to lower power prices

Updated

A carbon emissions trading scheme in the electricity sector could lead to an average saving of $216 per year on household power bills, a major report has concluded.

Key points: Introduction of a carbon emissions trading scheme could save households $216 per year

ENA says there should be greater emphasis on feeding solar and battery power back into the grid

CSIRO is calling for a clearer climate change policy from the Federal Government

The CSIRO and Energy Networks Australia (ENA) have spent two years analysing the future of Australia's electricity system.

They concluded a system where high-carbon emitting power generators have to buy "credits" from lower-emitting generators would be the least expensive way for Australia to reach its carbon reduction targets.

The two organisations have been less enthusiastic about technology-focused emission-reduction frameworks.

This includes the setting of renewable energy targets (RETs), for example, which they said were far more expensive and politically contentious.

"We think the emission intensity scheme is the clearest area where there is potential for consensus among the various policy-makers in state and federal governments beyond the election cycle," ENA chief executive John Bradley said.

"We focus on the outcome — which is the emission reduction — and we allow the market to produce the solutions."

Mr Bradley said market-driven solutions were most likely to drive down the cost of wholesale power, which he said should then be passed on at the retail level.

"Customers could save over $200 per year through technology-neutral approaches like an emission intensity scheme compared to current business-as-usual policies," he said.

'We need stable and enduring carbon policy', CSIRO says

Mr Bradley explained there should be more of an emphasis on encouraging people to use solar power and battery storage in their homes to then feed the electricity back into the grid.

"What we want to do is provide them the incentives and rewards that take advantage of the solar and storage they install so that they don't have to build traditional generation or traditional poles and wires," he said.

"It's a much smarter energy future which is kind of working more like an internet which is trading information — or trading energy in this case — for the better outcomes for customers."

The CSIRO said more than $100 billion of taxpayer money could be saved by encouraging households to take up solar and battery storage.

Most people take the energy grid for granted, but as evidenced by the major South Australian blackout, it causes havoc when it goes down and the CSIRO said it may become increasingly unstable because of the increased use of renewable energy.

Paul Graham, the chief economist of CSIRO Energy, said there needs to be a clearer policy from the Federal Government on climate policy.

"We need a stable and enduring carbon policy in Australia. It's very hard to get the investment we need if we don't have a clear and enduring policy so that everybody knows what the rules are for building new low emission technology," Mr Graham said.

The Federal Government on Monday said a carbon price for power companies, rather than an economy-wide "carbon tax", was set to be considered as part of a climate change review.

The Department of the Environment and Energy will undertake the review next year to examine the best ways to meet Australia's climate commitments.

Topics: electricity-energy-and-utilities, federal-parliament, environment, government-and-politics, australia

First posted