Euro bounces back as Italian referendum result stuns the financial world
Euro bounces back, stock markets weather storm after Italy referendum


The euro bounced back today and stock markets across Europe weathered the storm as investors brushed off the resignation of the Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who lost a referendum on constitutional reform.

Investors had been braced for a turbulent day's trading as a political crisis hits Italy, the euro zone's third largest economy.

On the currency markets the euro had hit a 20-month low earlier against the dollar, but it rallied this morning and is now trading higher.

By lunch the euro is up 0.5 percent against the dollar, at $1.0719, and up 0.47 percent against the pound at £1.1899.

In London, the FTSE 100 was up 6.5 points at 6,737.2 at lunch, while the Dax index in Europe gained 1.5 per cent and the Cac in France moved 1.1 per cent higher.

Matteo Renzi, a Left-winger, has been Prime Minister of Italy since 2014 but he staked his reputation on victory in the referendum and, like David Cameron earlier this year, has now bowed to the inevitable

Renzi went to see Italy's head of state, President Sergio Mattarella, today to see if they could plot a way forward out of the impasse. Both men were seeking to ease fears of instability and a crisis for Italy's already troubled banking sector.

It will be up to President Mattarella to decide whether to call fresh elections or just appoint a new prime minister, with Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan the favourite if he chooses the latter option.

Renzi's decision to quit, which echoes David Cameron's announcement in the wake of the Brexit referendum, is the latest seismic shock in a year of populist uprisings against the political establishment.

Beppe Grillo of the Left-wing 5 Star Movement, and Matteo Salvini of the anti-immigrant Northern League, have both claimed credit for the No campaign's victory in the referendum and have urged an early general election.

Grillo has also called for a referendum on Italy pulling out of the euro, and bringing back the lira.

Matteo Salvini (left) of the Northern League and Beppe Grillo (right) of the 5 Star Movement, have both claimed credit for the No side winning the referendum

Renzi resigned shortly after exit polls indicated a clear defeat, saying: 'I accept all responsibility for this loss. I'll say it out loud.'

Grillo, urging a No vote, had told Italians: 'Go with your gut, not your brain'.

Jane Foley, a senior FX strategist at Rabobank, said the referendum result partly reflects a protest against Renzi and his policies, but suggested the banking system could be the next casualty.

She said: 'For Italy's banks the referendum result will mark a huge disappointment.

'A decision will be forthcoming as to whether the €5billion recapitalisation of Monte dei Paschi will go ahead. If a private recapitalisation were to fail it is likely that the government will step in to prevent the spread of contagion.'

Mr Renzi makes his resignation speech as his wife, Angese Landini, looks on

He said: 'For Italy, establishing stable governance and a plan to guide the nation is of critical importance given the fragility of the economy, challenging policies and the liquidity problems in the banking system.'

EU Economics Commissioner Pierre Moscovici denied the referendum was a vote against he EU or the euro.

He told French television: 'It's a solid country with solid authorities and I have complete confidence that Italy can handle this situation.'

EU Economics Commissioner Pierre Moscovici said the referendum was a domestic issue and not a referendum on Italy's membership of the euro

Craig Erlam, analyst at Oanda, added: 'The moves in the euro appear to be mirroring those of European equity markets where we’ve seen a similar rebound following earlier weakness.

'There’s a buy the dip mentality in the markets at the moment that appears to kick in shortly after the release of any apparent bad news, the referendum result and US election being the two obvious examples.

The European Central Bank meets on Thursday amid much speculation it will announce a six-month extension of its asset buying programme and widen the type of bonds it can purchase.