Tim Roth: my father and I were abused by my grandfather

Tim Roth , the acclaimed British actor who rose to global fame with roles in Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, has said that both he and his father were abused by his grandfather. Roth, who has previously spoken of his own abuse, has not before said who his abuser was, nor that his father was similarly abused. Speaking to the Guardian’s Rory Carroll to promote new TV series Rillington Place, Roth said his father, journalist Ernie Smith, had left the British Communist party in the 1970s in part in disgust over its sex scandals that appalled him. “He was an abused kid, my dad,” said Roth, “and it was a terrible childhood that he had, and he took that shit seriously.” Roth clarified that he was not himself abused by his father – as in the relationship depicted in his directorial debut, The War Zone (1999), in which a father abuses his daughter – but that they were both abused as children by his grandfather. “He was abused. And I was abused. But I was not abused by him. I was abused by his abuser … It was his father. He was a fucking rapist. But nobody had the language. Nobody knew what to do. That’s why I made The War Zone.” Roth, 55, has acted in large-scale Hollywood movies such as Grace of Monaco and The Hateful Eight as well as smaller arthouse projects. He won much acclaim for Chronic , which premiered at Cannes last year, and in which he starred as a palliative care nurse falsely accused of abusing a patient. Topics  Tim Roth   Television

Tim Roth, the acclaimed British actor who rose to global fame with roles in Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, has said that both he and his father were abused by his grandfather.

Roth, who has previously spoken of his own abuse, has not before said who his abuser was, nor that his father was similarly abused.

Tim Roth: ‘If you neglect the working class for so long, they will rebel against you’ Read more

Speaking to the Guardian’s Rory Carroll to promote new TV series Rillington Place, Roth said his father, journalist Ernie Smith, had left the British Communist party in the 1970s in part in disgust over its sex scandals that appalled him.

“He was an abused kid, my dad,” said Roth, “and it was a terrible childhood that he had, and he took that shit seriously.”

Roth clarified that he was not himself abused by his father – as in the relationship depicted in his directorial debut, The War Zone (1999), in which a father abuses his daughter – but that they were both abused as children by his grandfather.

“He was abused. And I was abused. But I was not abused by him. I was abused by his abuser … It was his father. He was a fucking rapist. But nobody had the language. Nobody knew what to do. That’s why I made The War Zone.”

Roth, 55, has acted in large-scale Hollywood movies such as Grace of Monaco and The Hateful Eight as well as smaller arthouse projects. He won much acclaim for Chronic, which premiered at Cannes last year, and in which he starred as a palliative care nurse falsely accused of abusing a patient.