Football's darkest hour could be masculinity's brightest dawn
Football's darkest hour could be masculinity's brightest dawn
he football sex abuse scandal is the game’s darkest hour. Yesterday, sources within Operation Hydrant, the national police body coordinating historical sex abuse claims, announced that 55 professional and non-league clubs have so far been named by 350 victims claiming they were abused. The NSPCC said on Saturday it expected the number of calls to its hotline to pass 1,000. This shadow could next spread beyond football, as Hydrant sources have suggested that allegations of abuse relating to other sports have been received. If there is one positive to be taken from this bleak landscape, I believe it to be this: we can use the situation to make a paradigm shift in how we look at issues that affect men and boys. Football – that most macho of worlds – can lead the way in fostering an emotional openness that men increasingly need to survive at a time when suicide is the biggest killer of men aged under 45. It's time for football's icons to stand up and be counted. areth Southgate, taking the England manager’s helm at football’s most testing time, has led the way. Emotional, yet stoic, last week he reflected on an abused former team mate, thought to be then Crystal Palace’s Paul Stewart, and concluded, “with the benefit of hindsight” he now understands “why we saw the things we saw”. Wayne Rooney, an NSPCC Ambassador, praised those who have spoken out as “brave” , saying: “It's important that people know that it's OK to speak out, there is help available and that they don’t need to suffer in silence.” Alan Shearer, also an NSPCC spokesman, added, “I have nothing but huge respect and admiration for all the players who are now coming forward, bravely breaking years of silence in a bid to help others”. What the scandal irrevocably proves is that men and boys can be the victims of sexual abuse, too. For too long, this has been a fiercely guarded, gendered debate, kept that way by vested interest groups and government policy that rightly protects women and girls, while wrongly ignoring the needs of men and boys. For example, the Crown Prosecution Service’s Violence Against Women and Girls crime report for 2014-15 included at least 13,154 male victims of sexual abuse, assault and domestic violence, yet they were categorised as crimes against women and girls. This cruelly erased their bravery in speaking out and was only addressed after a group of charities, campaigners and journalists (myself included) wrote to the CPS chief Alison Saunders and demanded change . e need to end the base assumption that men are problems, but cannot have problems. Yet this is the cornerstone of the government’s Violence Against Women & Girls strategy, which views men as perpetrators, and only women and girls as victims of violent crime and sexual abuse. It is for this reason that precisely none of the extra £80 million pledged to the VAWG  in March went towards helping men and boys. The rigid, gendered constraints of this policy meant Survivors UK , Britain’s only dedicated charity for male rape victims, last year had its funding cut to zero. To those 3,500 male victims of rape and sexual assault, that said “you don’t matter”. It is the reason that, while the number of women convicted of perpetrating domestic abuse has more than quadrupled in the past ten years (from 806 in 2004/05 to 4,866  in 2014/15), t he ManKind Initiative had to rely on a private donation of just £45,000 to keep its helplines , staffed by volunteers, open for a year. To the 500,000 annual male victims of domestic violence, that says “you don’t count”. But men’s and boy’s lives do matter. It’s for this reason I, along with 50 other allies, recently launched the Men & Boys Coalition in Parliament . Now the football abuse scandal needs to be a fresh line in the sand – and one that could ultimately help all men. When England managers and iconic players say, “it’s OK to talk” it sends out a powerful call that rings beyond football’s shores. It says to all men and boys: strong men don’t suffer, or die, in silence. Strong men talk. Strong men refuse to surrender to shame. Above all, strong men survive – with help from others. Correctly harnessed, football’s darkest tragedy could unwittingly turn into British masculinity’s brightest hour. While we can never undo the terrible wrongs suffered by abused footballers, by speaking out, they could help save the lives of countless others. For that, they should feel eternally proud.

The football sex abuse scandal is the game’s darkest hour.

Yesterday, sources within Operation Hydrant, the national police body coordinating historical sex abuse claims, announced that 55 professional and non-league clubs have so far been named by 350 victims claiming they were abused.

The NSPCC said on Saturday it expected the number of calls to its hotline to pass 1,000.

This shadow could next spread beyond football, as Hydrant sources have suggested that allegations of abuse relating to other sports have been received.

If there is one positive to be taken from this bleak landscape, I believe it to be this: we can use the situation to make a paradigm shift in how we look at issues that affect men and boys.

Football – that most macho of worlds – can lead the way in fostering an emotional openness that men increasingly need to survive at a time when suicide is the biggest killer of men aged under 45.

It's time for football's icons to stand up and be counted.