Man Motivated to 'Self-Investigate' #Pizzagate Conspiracy Theory Fires Assault Rifle Inside D.C. Pizza Shop
Man Motivated to 'Self-Investigate' #Pizzagate Conspiracy Theory Fires Assault Rifle Inside D.C. Pizza Shop
At this point, it's clear that fake news is a serious issue for our country . But it's especially problematic when fake news leads to violence—as it did on Sunday. A 28-year-old man has been arrested and charged with assault with a dangerous weapon after he walked into a pizza shop in Washington D.C. with an assault rifle, which he fired inside the restaurant. Why? The suspect "came to the establishment to self-investigate 'Pizza Gate' (a fictitious online conspiracy theory)," the police said. The baseless #Pizzagate conspiracy theory , which has been spread by Trump surrogates, asserts—without evidence—that Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager ran a child sex ring out of a pizza shop. According to a statement from the police, Edgar Maddison Welch showed up shortly before 3 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 5, at Comet Ping Pong, a D.C. pizza shop near the Maryland border. The 28-year-old from Salisbury, North Carolina, had multiple guns on him, and pointed one of them at an employee when he walked into the store. The employee was able to escape and notify the police, but Welch went on to fire his rifle inside the store, though no one was injured. Fortunately, the police were able to arrest Welch, about 45 minutes after he had entered the store, without any issues. Suspect at # apprehended great job  pic.twitter.com/ Another weapon was found inside Welch's car, along with the two firearms recovered from inside the pizza shop: one was an AR-15 assault-style rifle, one was a Colt .38 caliber handgun, and one was a shotgun, according to the . . @DCPoliceDept press release on arrest of Edgar Welch, 28, of Salisbury, NC for assault w/dangerous weapon at Comet restaurant. pic.twitter.com/ Why did this happen? "During a post-arrest interview this evening, the suspect revealed that he came to the establishment to self-investigate 'Pizza Gate' (a fictitious online conspiracy theory)," the police statement explains. "During a post-arrest interview this evening, the suspect revealed that he came to the establishment to self-investigate # " https://t.co/ So what is #Pizzagate? The describes it as "a conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton running a child sex ring out of a pizza place." According to the , conspiracy theorists claim—without evidence— that "Comet Ping Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her campaign chief, John D. Podesta." Conspiracy theorists and others spread fake news articles with headlines like, "Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of Washington’s Occult Elite." Of course, none of the accusations are true. Not all conspiracy theories are created equally. " " is a particularly pernicious, unhinged theory https://t.co/ # morons also live in a world where the FBI engages in high profile Clinton probes but is too scared to investigate John . Since the campaign, when the fake news was widely spread, the Comet and its staff, as well as nearby businesses, have been the victims of social media attacks and death threats. Just last month, according to the , Reddit banned the "pizzagate" topic, citing their policy against posting other people's personal information. Thing about # : child sex traffickers don't actually leave clues for users. The world is not "Scooby Doo." One of the most concerning parts of the conspiracy theory is that it's being spread by some high-level Trump surrogates: Alex Jones, Michael Flynn & other Trump supporters pushed false . Today a man with gun seized at Comet Pizza. Utterly deplorable. Retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn , Trump's national security advisor, tweeted out the fake story just before the election: U decide - NYPD Blows Whistle on New Hillary Emails: Money Laundering, Sex Crimes w Children, etc...MUST READ! https://t.co/ Even after the attack occurred, Flynn's son—who has also served as his father's chief of staff— promoted the fake story. This is the son of Donald Trump's national security advisor, who served as his father's chief of staff. pic.twitter.com/ Comet owner James Alefantis told the just a couple weeks ago, "From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we’ve come under constant assault." However, the shop wasn't physically attacked until this weekend. # , a fake-news delusion about child abuse, is now actually threatening children in my neighborhood. https://t.co/ "What happened today demonstrates that promoting false and reckless conspiracy theories comes with consequences. I hope that those involved in fanning these flames will take a moment to contemplate what happened here today, and stop promoting these falsehoods right away," Alefantis said in a statement. The owner dismissed the "malicious and utterly false accusations," and said the company plans to go back to normal operations within the next few days.

At this point, it's clear that fake news is a serious issue for our country. But it's especially problematic when fake news leads to violence—as it did on Sunday. A 28-year-old man has been arrested and charged with assault with a dangerous weapon after he walked into a pizza shop in Washington D.C. with an assault rifle, which he fired inside the restaurant. Why? The suspect "came to the establishment to self-investigate 'Pizza Gate' (a fictitious online conspiracy theory)," the police said. The baseless #Pizzagate conspiracy theory, which has been spread by Trump surrogates, asserts—without evidence—that Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager ran a child sex ring out of a pizza shop.

According to a statement from the police, Edgar Maddison Welch showed up shortly before 3 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 5, at Comet Ping Pong, a D.C. pizza shop near the Maryland border. The 28-year-old from Salisbury, North Carolina, had multiple guns on him, and pointed one of them at an employee when he walked into the store. The employee was able to escape and notify the police, but Welch went on to fire his rifle inside the store, though no one was injured. Fortunately, the police were able to arrest Welch, about 45 minutes after he had entered the store, without any issues.

Another weapon was found inside Welch's car, along with the two firearms recovered from inside the pizza shop: one was an AR-15 assault-style rifle, one was a Colt .38 caliber handgun, and one was a shotgun, according to the Washington Post.

.@DCPoliceDept press release on arrest of Edgar Maddison Welch, 28, of Salisbury, NC for assault w/dangerous weapon at Comet restaurant. pic.twitter.com/IkSJUeHM2y — Deputy Mayor Donahue ( @SafeDC ) December 5, 2016

Why did this happen? "During a post-arrest interview this evening, the suspect revealed that he came to the establishment to self-investigate 'Pizza Gate' (a fictitious online conspiracy theory)," the police statement explains.

"During a post-arrest interview this evening, the suspect revealed that he came to the establishment to self-investigate #PizzaGate" https://t.co/hPMC6YgeqL — Brian Stelter ( @brianstelter ) December 5, 2016

So what is #Pizzagate? The Associated Press describes it as "a conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton running a child sex ring out of a pizza place." According to the New York Times, conspiracy theorists claim—without evidence— that "Comet Ping Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her campaign chief, John D. Podesta." Conspiracy theorists and others spread fake news articles with headlines like, "Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of Washington’s Occult Elite." Of course, none of the accusations are true.

Not all conspiracy theories are created equally. "Pizzagate" is a particularly pernicious, unhinged theory https://t.co/bSv8KXHRj3 — Brian Stelter ( @brianstelter ) December 5, 2016

#pizzagate morons also live in a world where the FBI engages in high profile Clinton probes but is too scared to investigate John Podesta. — Dave Weigel ( @daveweigel ) December 4, 2016

Since the campaign, when the fake news was widely spread, the Comet and its staff, as well as nearby businesses, have been the victims of social media attacks and death threats. Just last month, according to the Washington Post, Reddit banned the "pizzagate" topic, citing their policy against posting other people's personal information.

Thing about #PizzaGate: child sex traffickers don't actually leave Instagram clues for Reddit users. The world is not "Scooby Doo." — Dave Weigel ( @daveweigel ) December 4, 2016

One of the most concerning parts of the conspiracy theory is that it's being spread by some high-level Trump surrogates:

Alex Jones, Michael Flynn & other Trump supporters pushed false Pizzagate. Today a man with gun seized at Comet Pizza. Utterly deplorable. — David Corn ( @DavidCornDC ) December 4, 2016

Retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn, Trump's national security advisor, tweeted out the fake story just before the election:

U decide - NYPD Blows Whistle on New Hillary Emails: Money Laundering, Sex Crimes w Children, etc...MUST READ! https://t.co/O0bVJT3QDr — General Flynn ( @GenFlynn ) November 3, 2016

Even after the attack occurred, Flynn's son—who has also served as his father's chief of staff—promoted the fake story.

This is the son of Donald Trump's national security advisor, who served as his father's chief of staff. pic.twitter.com/yRl9UuwUMI — andrew kaczynski ( @KFILE ) December 5, 2016

Comet owner James Alefantis told the New York Times just a couple weeks ago, "From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we’ve come under constant assault." However, the shop wasn't physically attacked until this weekend.

#pizzagate, a fake-news delusion about child abuse, is now actually threatening children in my neighborhood. https://t.co/bOL1UCjPsF — lori montgomery ( @loriamontgomery ) December 5, 2016

"What happened today demonstrates that promoting false and reckless conspiracy theories comes with consequences. I hope that those involved in fanning these flames will take a moment to contemplate what happened here today, and stop promoting these falsehoods right away," Alefantis said in a statement. The owner dismissed the "malicious and utterly false accusations," and said the company plans to go back to normal operations within the next few days.