Jimmy Kimmel Wil Host This Year's Academy Awards Ceremony
Jimmy Kimmel Will Host This Year's Oscars Ceremony
Jimmy Kimmel will take on hosting duties for this year’s Oscars ceremony, the comedian confirmed on Twitter. Yes, I am hosting the Oscars. This is not a prank. And if it is, my revenge on @TheAcademy will be terrible & sweet. Thx to @alsformalwear Kimmel is set to host the 89th annual ceremony, which will air on ABC Feb. 26. The Hollywood Reporter notes Oscars producers Michael De Luca and Jennifer Todd are expected to announce the news. This will mark the first time hosting the Oscars for Kimmel, though he does have some solid award show experience under belt after hosting the 2012 and 2016 Emmys . He’s also hosted post-Oscars late-night specials. As Deadline reports, Kimmel seems like somewhat of an obvious choice given his relationship with ABC, the network that airs his late-night talk show. ABC now has more say in the Oscars after renewing a deal to broadcast the ceremony until 2028 , and the outlet reports the network really wanted Kimmel for the gig. Kimmel will succeed Chris Rock, who was unable to bring ratings up as much as hoped during last year’s broadcast. According to THR, the Rock-hosted ceremony drew an audience of 34.3 million viewers , which was an 11-year low for the telecast. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Oscars Red Carpet 2016       Share this slide:       MORE:

Jimmy Kimmel will take on hosting duties for this year’s Oscars ceremony, the comedian confirmed on Twitter.

Yes, I am hosting the Oscars. This is not a prank. And if it is, my revenge on @TheAcademy will be terrible & sweet. Thx to @alsformalwear — Jimmy Kimmel (@jimmykimmel) December 5, 2016

Kimmel is set to host the 89th annual ceremony, which will air on ABC Feb. 26. The Hollywood Reporter notes Oscars producers Michael De Luca and Jennifer Todd are expected to announce the news.

This will mark the first time hosting the Oscars for Kimmel, though he does have some solid award show experience under belt after hosting the 2012 and 2016 Emmys. He’s also hosted post-Oscars late-night specials.

As Deadline reports, Kimmel seems like somewhat of an obvious choice given his relationship with ABC, the network that airs his late-night talk show. ABC now has more say in the Oscars after renewing a deal to broadcast the ceremony until 2028, and the outlet reports the network really wanted Kimmel for the gig.