Oakland Mourns Victims of Warehouse Fire - ABC News



Catalina Palacios of Oakland carries incense at a makeshift memorial for the victims of the fatal warehouse fire in Oakland, Calif., Dec. 6, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

An Alameda County Sheriff escorts a woman carrying flowers at the site of the fatal warehouse fire, Dec. 6, 2016, in Oakland, Calif. Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

A mourner places flowers and candles during a vigil honoring those who died in a warehouse fire in Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images

Hundreds of people attend a vigil for the victims of a warehouse fire that has claimed the lives of at least thirty-six people, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

People gather at the Lake Merritt Pergola during a vigil for the victims of the fatal warehouse fire in Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

A group of firefighters stand among the crowd during a vigil for the victims of the fatal warehouse fire in Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

A woman holds flowers at a vigil for the victims of a warehouse fire that has claimed the lives of at least thirty-six people, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

Charred exterior from the fatal warehouse fire is seen in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

Debris from the fatal warehouse fire is being transported away in Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

Alameda County Sheriff J.D. Nelson holds an aerial picture of a warehouse fire near the site, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, California. Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

People place flowers and notes at a makeshift memorial near the site of a devastating fire that tore through a warehouse, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Nick Otto/AFP/Getty Images

Danielle Boudreaux, 40, who knew Derick Ion Almena and his children and went to the Ghost Ship many times, cries at a sidewalk memorial near the burned warehouse following the fatal fire in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Janet Lino, 35, who lives in the neighborhood, looks at a sidewalk memorial near the burned warehouse following the fatal fire in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 5, 2016. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Lidia Marquez prays near the site of a warehouse fire, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. The fire broke out late Friday night. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

People mourn near a makeshift memorial, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Nick Otto/AFP/Getty Images

Genevieve Griseau attends a memorial for victims of a warehouse fire at Chapel of the Chimes Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016, in Oakland, California. Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

A memorial is seen near the site of a warehouse fire that has claimed the lives of at least 36 people, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

Rachel Saxer, left, embraces friend La Tron at a makeshift memorial near the scene of a fatal warehouse fire in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 4, 2016. Stephen Lam/Reuters

Recovery teams examine the charred remains of the two-story converted warehouse that caught fire killing dozens in Oakland, California, Dec. 4, 2016. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Firefighters work inside the burned warehouse following the fatal fire in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 4, 2016. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Firefighters investigate the scene of a overnight fire that claimed the lives of at least nine people at a warehouse in the Fruitvale neighborhood, Dec. 3, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

Smoke pours from a warehouse, which caught fire during a dance party in Oakland, California, Dec. 3, 2016. Seung Lee/Handout via Reuters

This photo provided by @seungylee14 shows the scene of a fire in Oakland, Dec. 3, 2016. @seungylee14 via AP

A firefighter climbs a ladder after a deadly fire at a warehouse dance party in Oakland, California, Dec. 3, 2016. Josh Edelson/AP Photo

Two people embrace following a small ceremony near the site of a warehouse fire, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

Well-wishers walk to place flowers at the scene in the aftermath of a warehouse fire, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf speaks at a media event following a warehouse fire that has claimed the lives of at least 36 people, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, California. Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images

People react at the scene of a warehouse fire in the Fruitvale district of Oakland, California, Dec. 4, 2016. John G. Mabanglo/EPA