Yasiin Bey Has Three Albums on the Way Including a Joint Project With Mannie Fresh
Yasiin Bey Has Three Albums on the Way Including a Joint Project With Mannie Fresh
Yasiin Bey Has Three Albums on the Way Including a Joint Project With Mannie Fresh  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Yasiin Bey (also known as Mos Def) plans to roll out more three albums before he pulls the curtains on his storied rap career. Shortly after being told he could leave South Africa after violating local immigration laws earlier this year, Bey revealed his intentions to retire once he wrapped a string of shows in the U.S . In addition to that, he also promised fans his collaborative project with Ferrari Sheppard titled , which is set to be released Dec. 9 on Tidal. Bey also plans to two more albums, including a joint project with acclaimed producer Mannie Fresh . While at Miami's Art Basel, he announced the news in an interview with WNL Radio. "I will be premiering my new album, , and me and Mannie Fresh’s project, which is called , at The Apollo on December 21," he said. To strengthen Bey's promises, Sheppard said in a statement to that the elusive rapper "will perform and Mannie, some songs from the albums at least. No release date for the albums. They are complete."  For years, fans marveled at the possibility of a collaborative project between Bey and Mannie Fresh, especially after footage of the two working together in New Orleans surfaced back in 2012 . They went on to forge a group named OMFGOD and even released two records called "Black Jesus" and "Let's Go." There's a good chance that Bey will unearth even more gems stemming from their sessions together with his new album with Fresh. For those interested in seeing Bey grace the stage, he will be performing at New York's Apollo Theater on Dec. 21 and at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. from Saturday, Dec. 31 through Monday, Jan. 2, 2017. Listen to his WNL Radio interview and check out footage from his sessions with Mannie Fresh below. Mos Def aka Yasiin Bey Announced 2 new albums. One with @manniefresh ! pic.twitter.com/N1DXAtrI00 Yasiin Bey debuted #SmileyMan in Miami #ArtBasel  #MosDef  pic.twitter.com/3zfrzm2m8L Mos Def aka Yasiin Bey just debuted this in Miami #ArtBasel2016  pic.twitter.com/vLt8izh3CC Yasiin Bey "Turnt" live in Miami #ArtBasel2016  #NewAlbum  #OnTheWay  pic.twitter.com/zADWTtSXbH  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Yasiin Bey performs on Day 2 of the Osheaga Music and Art Festival on Aug. 1, 2015 in Montreal, Canada. Â

Yasiin Bey (also known as Mos Def) plans to roll out more three albums before he pulls the curtains on his storied rap career. Shortly after being told he could leave South Africa after violating local immigration laws earlier this year, Bey revealed his intentions to retire once he wrapped a string of shows in the U.S. In addition to that, he also promised fans his collaborative project with Ferrari Sheppard titled December 99th, which is set to be released Dec. 9 on Tidal.

Bey also plans to two more albums, including a joint project with acclaimed producer Mannie Fresh. While at Miami's Art Basel, he announced the news in an interview with WNL Radio. "I will be premiering my new album, Negus In Natural Person, and me and Mannie Fresh’s project, which is called As Promised, at The Apollo on December 21," he said.

To strengthen Bey's promises, Sheppard said in a statement to OkayPlayer that the elusive rapper "will perform Negus and Mannie, some songs from the albums at least. No release date for the albums. They are complete."

For years, fans marveled at the possibility of a collaborative project between Bey and Mannie Fresh, especially after footage of the two working together in New Orleans surfaced back in 2012. They went on to forge a group named OMFGOD and even released two records called "Black Jesus" and "Let's Go." There's a good chance that Bey will unearth even more gems stemming from their sessions together with his new album with Fresh.

For those interested in seeing Bey grace the stage, he will be performing at New York's Apollo Theater on Dec. 21 and at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. from Saturday, Dec. 31 through Monday, Jan. 2, 2017.

Listen to his WNL Radio interview and check out footage from his sessions with Mannie Fresh below.

Mos Def aka Yasiin Bey Announced 2 new albums. One with @manniefresh! pic.twitter.com/N1DXAtrI00 — Mikey Fresh (@MikeyFresh1) December 3, 2016