Get Ready For A Bond Meltdown
Get Ready For A Bond Meltdown
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Intelligent Investing       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The obsession of the Federal Reserve and other central banks with keeping interest rates at extremely low levels has grossly inflated the value of both government and high-grade corporate bonds and sets up fixed-income investors for potential disaster. The 30-year U.S. Treasury currently yields 3%, but for investors in the 40% income tax bracket, the net yield becomes 1.76%, and even with very low inflation of 1.8%, that's almost a negligible annual real return on capital. If interest rates rise just one percentage point, the investor would lose 26% of his capital on these holdings; if two points, 45%; and if three, 60%. This is one of the worst risk-reward situations I've ever seen. After the election the price of 30-year Treasurys free-fell about 6% on fears that the president-elect's proposed stimulus programs will push interest rates higher. The Fed and other central banks tremble over the possibility of an economic downturn and overlook the danger of basement-level Treasury rates because they believe lower interest rates spur increased investment by corporations in capital spending, which should result in higher-paying jobs. This has not happened. Capital spending remains tepid, and although jobs are increasing, average working-class and middle-class Americans have seen only marginal salary increases since 2007. Pension plans and individual retirement accounts are taking collateral damage. There are a total of 1,260 public companies in the U.S. that have reported pension data in FactSet. Of these, 95% are underfunded. The average underfunded plan has a ratio of assets-to-liabilities equal to 69%. A similar pattern is seen in the underfunding of municipal and state pension funds. Of the 92 state retirement systems that reported actuarial data for 2014, 87% are underfunded, with the average fund being under its actuarial requirement by 27% at the end of 2014. If this damaging Fed policy continues, the U.S. government may have to provide pension and IRA owners with some means of support at a cost that would probably run into the trillions, taking down the dollar in the process as bond buyers lose faith in the currency. Such action, if it occurs, would force interest rates to rise and spark massive inflation. Bad as the above problems appear to me, there are some solutions for investors to consider. First, don't buy bonds that have a maturity of more than three years. Second, put your money into a well-diversified portfolio of stocks with low price/earnings ratios, preferably blue chips or an index fund that tracks the S&P 500. Strange as it may sound, bonds are far riskier than stocks today. Unlike bonds, equities tend to keep up with inflation over time, since corporations can raise prices as bondholders see purchasing power wither away. Inflation is a larcenous villain in the long run--and sometimes even within a short period. The hyperinflation that shrunk the German mark to a billionth of its former value in the 1920s is an extreme case, although Brazil and Argentina have also suffered similar decimations of purchasing power. The U.S. has not seen hyperinflation in this century, but a dollar today would buy only 8 cents' worth of what it could in 1945.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The obsession of the Federal Reserve and other central banks with keeping interest rates at extremely low levels has grossly inflated the value of both government and high-grade corporate bonds and sets up fixed-income investors for potential disaster.

The 30-year U.S. Treasury currently yields 3%, but for investors in the 40% income tax bracket, the net yield becomes 1.76%, and even with very low inflation of 1.8%, that's almost a negligible annual real return on capital. If interest rates rise just one percentage point, the investor would lose 26% of his capital on these holdings; if two points, 45%; and if three, 60%. This is one of the worst risk-reward situations I've ever seen. After the election the price of 30-year Treasurys free-fell about 6% on fears that the president-elect's proposed stimulus programs will push interest rates higher. Your odds of making money in a casino are certainly no worse than they are in the long-term Treasury market.

The Fed and other central banks tremble over the possibility of an economic downturn and overlook the danger of basement-level Treasury rates because they believe lower interest rates spur increased investment by corporations in capital spending, which should result in higher-paying jobs. This has not happened. Capital spending remains tepid, and although jobs are increasing, average working-class and middle-class Americans have seen only marginal salary increases since 2007.

Pension plans and individual retirement accounts are taking collateral damage. There are a total of 1,260 public companies in the U.S. that have reported pension data in FactSet. Of these, 95% are underfunded. The average underfunded plan has a ratio of assets-to-liabilities equal to 69%. A similar pattern is seen in the underfunding of municipal and state pension funds. Of the 92 state retirement systems that reported actuarial data for 2014, 87% are underfunded, with the average fund being under its actuarial requirement by 27% at the end of 2014.

If this damaging Fed policy continues, the U.S. government may have to provide pension and IRA owners with some means of support at a cost that would probably run into the trillions, taking down the dollar in the process as bond buyers lose faith in the currency. Such action, if it occurs, would force interest rates to rise and spark massive inflation.

Bad as the above problems appear to me, there are some solutions for investors to consider. First, don't buy bonds that have a maturity of more than three years. Second, put your money into a well-diversified portfolio of stocks with low price/earnings ratios, preferably blue chips or an index fund that tracks the S&P 500.

Strange as it may sound, bonds are far riskier than stocks today. Unlike bonds, equities tend to keep up with inflation over time, since corporations can raise prices as bondholders see purchasing power wither away. Inflation is a larcenous villain in the long run--and sometimes even within a short period. The hyperinflation that shrunk the German mark to a billionth of its former value in the 1920s is an extreme case, although Brazil and Argentina have also suffered similar decimations of purchasing power. The U.S. has not seen hyperinflation in this century, but a dollar today would buy only 8 cents' worth of what it could in 1945.