Tyson Launches $150 Million VC Fund That Could Help Hedge Against A Meatless Future
Tyson Launches $150 Million VC Fund That Could Help Hedge Against A Meatless Future
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As plant-based foods and meatless meats gain ground with consumers for health and environmental reasons, companies like Tyson Foods -- a chicken, beef and pork purveyor whose name is practically synonymous with the word meat -- have had to think about how to remain competitive. It's an existential question, to be sure, but already, one potential solution has emerged: create a venture capital arm aimed at investing in alternative forms of protein and food sustainability. Tyson announced Monday that it has launched a $150 million venture capital fund, called Tyson New Ventures LLC. The company has said the fund will complement its existing investments and will focus on companies that are developing "breakthrough" technology and business models. And, of course, meatless meats. The fund's first investment involves Tyson's five-percent stake in Beyond Meats (a company making burgers, chicken and other traditional "meat" out of peas, carrot fiber and more), which was first announced in October. At the time, Tyson executive vice president of strategy Monica McGurk said that Tyson was excited about the stake (the full financial terms were not disclosed), because it gave Tyson " (Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg) She went on to say that the company intends to "collaborate" with food entrepreneurs who are focusing their efforts on products and technology that change our existing food systems. " Tyson New Ventures will be run out of Chicago by Mary Kay James, who has been given the title of vice president and general manager. Before coming to Tyson, James served as managing director of DuPont Ventures, where she looked for opportunities to take equity positions in companies focusing on agricultural biotech, food and beverage supplements and specialty food production. It's worth noting that Tyson is hardly the first legacy food company to create a VC arm for investing in new and alternative food companies. Last October, General Mills launched 301 Inc; it has since taken positions in Beyond Meat, According to Dow Jones VentureSource data, VC firms invested $420 million in food and agricultural companies during the first three quarters of 2016. Last year, investments in the space totaled nearly $650 million. Shares of Tyson, which are up 8.3% year-to-date, gained 1.25% in Monday morning's trading session following the venture capital announcement.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As plant-based foods and meatless meats gain ground with consumers for health and environmental reasons, companies like Tyson Foods -- a chicken, beef and pork purveyor whose name is practically synonymous with the word meat -- have had to think about how to remain competitive. It's an existential question, to be sure, but already, one potential solution has emerged: create a venture capital arm aimed at investing in alternative forms of protein and food sustainability.

Tyson announced Monday that it has launched a $150 million venture capital fund, called Tyson New Ventures LLC. The company has said the fund will complement its existing investments and will focus on companies that are developing "breakthrough" technology and business models.

And, of course, meatless meats. The fund's first investment involves Tyson's five-percent stake in Beyond Meats (a company making burgers, chicken and other traditional "meat" out of peas, carrot fiber and more), which was first announced in October. At the time, Tyson executive vice president of strategy Monica McGurk said that Tyson was excited about the stake (the full financial terms were not disclosed), because it gave Tyson "exposure to a fast-growing segment of the protein market."

On Monday, McGurk praised Tyson's new step, saying in a statement, "This fund is about broadening our exposure to innovative, new forms of protein and ways of producing food, while remaining focused on our core fresh meats, poultry and prepared foods businesses, which are also experiencing tremendous consumer demand and growth."

She went on to say that the company intends to "collaborate" with food entrepreneurs who are focusing their efforts on products and technology that change our existing food systems. "We believe we can accelerate the growth of startups through our capabilities in such areas as food and culinary research and development, sourcing, insights, customer relationships and distribution. By doing so, we hope to materially advance the state of the U.S. and global food system,” she said.

Tyson New Ventures will be run out of Chicago by Mary Kay James, who has been given the title of vice president and general manager. Before coming to Tyson, James served as managing director of DuPont Ventures, where she looked for opportunities to take equity positions in companies focusing on agricultural biotech, food and beverage supplements and specialty food production.

It's worth noting that Tyson is hardly the first legacy food company to create a VC arm for investing in new and alternative food companies. Last October, General Mills launched 301 Inc; it has since taken positions in Beyond Meat, Kite Hill (an alternative dairy company that's making yogurt, ricotta and even cream cheese out of nut-milk) and Tio Gazpacho (a chilled, low-calorie soup-in-a-bottle company). In February, Campbell Soup invested $125 million in Acre Venture Partners, an independent VC firm that counts Campbell's as its sole limited partner. In the months since Campbell announced its investment, Acre led a $10 million series A round for Back to the Roots (a company making home-growing mushroom kits as well as organic cereal) and a $12.5 million series C round for bacteria diagnostic company Sample6. And in June, Kellogg jumped into the fray with 1894 Capital, a $100 million fund also aimed at investing in emerging food brands.

According to Dow Jones VentureSource data, VC firms invested $420 million in food and agricultural companies during the first three quarters of 2016. Last year, investments in the space totaled nearly $650 million.

Shares of Tyson, which are up 8.3% year-to-date, gained 1.25% in Monday morning's trading session following the venture capital announcement.

This post was updated to clarify that Beyond Meats uses carrot fiber in its dishes.