Jimmy Kimmel Will Host the Oscars in 2017
Jimmy Kimmel Will Host the Oscars in 2017
Shares                Jimmy Kimmel will host the Academy Awards next year, he tweeted Monday. This will be the first time the "Jimmy Kimmel Live" host has taken the helm at the Oscars . "Yes, I am hosting the Oscars. This is not a prank. And if it is, my revenge on @TheAcademy will be terrible & sweet. Thx to @alsformalwear," he tweeted. The Academy retweeted the message.       Kimmel, 49, most recently was emcee at the Emmy Awards in September, his second time hosting that show. Chris Rock served as emcee of the 2016 Oscars in February. The 89th Academy Awards will take place Sunday, Feb. 26, in Hollywood and will air live on ABC. Nominations will be announced Tuesday, Jan. 24.  Yes, I am hosting the Oscars. This is not a prank. And if it is, my revenge on @TheAcademy will be terrible & sweet. Thx to @alsformalwear  Shares                  Jimmy Kimmel Will Host the Oscars in 2017   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   'Spider-Man: Homecoming': First Teaser Clip Features New Suit   Lauren Graham on How She Got Together With Boyfriend Peter Krause   Lady Gaga Writes About Her 'Daily' Struggle With PTSD   Tom Ford: Beyonce Is Perfect Even When They Drop Their Kids at School   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Wears Necklace With Their Initials   Johnny Depp Is Forbes' Most Overpaid Actor, Again   Ben Mendelsohn on Playing 'Rogue One' Villain   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   ANALYSIS: Finding the Loyalists in Trump's Administration   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

Jimmy Kimmel will host the Academy Awards next year, he tweeted Monday.

This will be the first time the "Jimmy Kimmel Live" host has taken the helm at the Oscars.

"Yes, I am hosting the Oscars. This is not a prank. And if it is, my revenge on @TheAcademy will be terrible & sweet. Thx to @alsformalwear," he tweeted.

The Academy retweeted the message.

Kimmel, 49, most recently was emcee at the Emmy Awards in September, his second time hosting that show. Chris Rock served as emcee of the 2016 Oscars in February.

The 89th Academy Awards will take place Sunday, Feb. 26, in Hollywood and will air live on ABC. Nominations will be announced Tuesday, Jan. 24.