Brexit: UK Government begins legal fight against ruling that could derail Theresa May's EU exit strategy



Brexit: UK Government begins legal fight against ruling that could derail Theresa May's EU exit strategy

Updated

The British Government has launched a Supreme Court battle over who has the power to trigger the formal process of leaving the European Union, seeking to overturn a legal ruling that could derail its Brexit strategy.

Key points: Case is due to last four days

Verdict is expected in January

High Court ruled last month that triggering Article 50 needed politicians' assent

The Government appealed to the country's highest judicial body after the High Court ruled last month that ministers could not trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and begin two years of Brexit talks without politicians' assent.

If the Supreme Court upholds the earlier ruling, that could disrupt Prime Minister Theresa May's planned timetable for invoking Article 50 by the end of March and give MPs opportunities to water down the government's EU exit policies.

With passions running high in Britain after voters opted to leave the EU by 52 to 48 per cent in a June referendum, some politicians and newspapers have portrayed the legal battle as an attempt by establishment judges to thwart the popular will.

The Government's top lawyer told the Supreme Court that the earlier legal ruling was wrong, arguing that Parliament had accepted ahead of the referendum that the Government would use executive "prerogative" powers where it acted on behalf of the monarch to implement its result.

"The triggering of Article 50, we say, will not be an exercise of prerogative power on a whim or out of a clear blue sky," Attorney-General Jeremy Wright said, adding prerogative authority was not an "ancient relic but a contemporary necessity".

"It is a logical conclusion of a process in which Parliament has been fully and consciously involved."

Outside the court, a grand neo-Gothic building located on the same central London square as the Houses of Parliament, police kept an eye on rival groups of pro and anti-Brexit demonstrators.

The hearing is due to last for four days and for the first time in the Supreme Court's seven-year history all 11 justices are sitting. The verdict is expected in January.

Court president acknowledges strong feelings of case

"We are aware of the strong feelings associated with the many wider political questions surrounding the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union," Supreme Court president David Neuberger said in opening remarks.

"However ... those wider political questions are not the subject of this appeal.

"This appeal is concerned with legal issues and, as judges, our duty is to consider those issues impartially, and to decide the case according to the law. This is what we shall do."

Some MPs in Ms May's Conservative Party had called for Mr Neuberger himself to withdraw because his wife had previously posted anti-Brexit messages on Twitter.

He said all parties in the case had been asked if they wanted any of the judges to stand down and no objections had been raised.

The case was originally brought by investment fund manager Gina Miller along with hairdresser Deir Tozetti Dos Santos.

The challengers successfully argued at the High Court that Britons would inevitably lose rights granted by Parliament when leaving the EU, and that under Britain's unwritten constitution such rights could only be taken away with politicians' approval.

If the Government wins at the Supreme Court, Ms May can invoke Article 50 by the end of March as planned.

But if she loses, as many legal experts have predicted, Parliament could delay or put conditions on the process, and in theory even block it.

Reuters

Topics: world-politics, government-and-politics, courts-and-trials, law-crime-and-justice, united-kingdom

First posted