China unveils ambitious new Five Year Plan to eliminate poverty
No more poor people by 2020! China unveils new  poverty relief plan


China's state council has announced new measures to eliminate poverty by 2020 as part of its latest Five Year Plan.

The policies, which will be in effect between 2016 and 2020, are expected to lift the poorest 56million people in the country above the poverty line, which is currently set at 2,800 Yuan (£320) per year.

As well as developing the economy, the plan also introduces the possibility of the government helping its most impoverished citizens to move to areas with more economic opportunities.

China's state council has announced new measures to eliminate poverty by 2020 as part of its latest Five Year Plan (file photo)

The plan has promised to ensure China's enormous population have 'enough to eat and wear, adequate education, health services and housing', according to a cabinet document released on December 2.

Low-income areas will be supported in their expansion of industries, such as agriculture, tourism and e-commerce.

According to the cabinet document, China's poor population is most prevalent in 832 counties across the country.

Poverty incidence in western China stood at over 10 percent. The rate in eight ethnic minority areas is even worse at 12.1 percent.

CHINA'S POVERTY RELIEF PLANS (2016-2020) Aim: to lift 56 million people out of poverty

Regional measures: boost agriculture, tourism, e-commerce, asset-return, technology

Employability enhancement: provide vocational training and relocation support

Education: perfecting the rural education system, support poor students, offer better access to higher education

Healthcare: improve quality of hospital service in poor areas, better coverage of medical insurance Source: China's state council

These included five provincial-level autonomous regions in Inner Mongolia, Tibet, Xinjiang, Guangxi, Ningxia, as well as the provinces of Yunnan, Guizhou and Qinghai.

Some people living in impoverished regions will be given the opportunity to relocate, with a variety of support measures introduced to increase their income and employability in their new homes.

Resources will be allocated to cultivate competitive industries, such as agriculture, tourism and e-commerce in these regions, said the document.

The plan also aims to provide easier access to education and health care services.

2020, a year before Communist Party's 100th anniversary, is a critical deadline for the government to review whether the party has delivered on its promises.

Some people living in impoverished regions will be given the opportunity to relocate, with a variety of support measures introduced to increase their income and employability in their new homes (file photo)

In late 1970s, former communist leader Deng Xiaoping famously vowed to move the national population into 'well-off society', known as 'xiao-kang' in Chinese, by the end of 20th century, according to China Daily.

Another leader, Jiang Zemin, elaborated on the concept and set a goal of quadrupling the 2000 GDP by 2020.

The latest and 13th Five-Year Plan is a blueprint for China’s economic and social development from 2016 to 2020.

Poverty relief is one of the main agendas for the plan, but it also address a diverse range of societal issues.

For instance, China, set a goal to slash carbon dioxide emissions by 18 percent by 2020, according to an earlier report by MailOnline.