National Steak and Poultry recalls nearly 2M pounds of chicken
National Steak and Poultry recalls nearly 2M pounds of chicken
Product Recalls National Steak and Poultry recalls nearly 2M pounds of chicken After initially recalling 17,349 pounds of chicken, Oklahoma-based National Steak and Poultry has expanded its announcement to include an additional 1,976,089 pounds of ready-to-eat chicken that may be undercooked. More on this...  Company recalls baby food after customer reports rubber in product   2 Trader Joe's hummus flavors recalled due to listeria risk   Homeopathic teething tablets recalled due to belladonna  The possible undercooking may lead to survival of bacterial pathogens in the products, according to Dec. 1 announcement by the Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS). The recall includes a variety of ready-to-eat chicken products that were produced on various dates from Aug. 20 through Nov. 30, 2016. The full list of additionally recalled products can be found here . The company made the initial recall after a food service customer made a complaint on Nov. 28 that the product appeared undercooked. According to a news release , there have been no confirmed reports of adverse health effects or illnesses. Consumers who purchased the recalled product should throw the product away or return to the place of purchase.

After initially recalling 17,349 pounds of chicken, Oklahoma-based National Steak and Poultry has expanded its announcement to include an additional 1,976,089 pounds of ready-to-eat chicken that may be undercooked.

The possible undercooking may lead to survival of bacterial pathogens in the products, according to Dec. 1 announcement by the Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS).

The recall includes a variety of ready-to-eat chicken products that were produced on various dates from Aug. 20 through Nov. 30, 2016. The full list of additionally recalled products can be found here.

The company made the initial recall after a food service customer made a complaint on Nov. 28 that the product appeared undercooked.

According to a news release, there have been no confirmed reports of adverse health effects or illnesses. Consumers who purchased the recalled product should throw the product away or return to the place of purchase.