Hacks to fight off a cold in MINUTES
Hacks to fight off a cold in MINUTES


The coats are on, the Christmas trees are up... and we've got our first batch of heart-warming, cold-combatting chicken soup on the stove.

Indeed, with all the fun and festivities that December brings, many of us end up skipping the Christmas parties with a towel over our heads when we get struck down with a dreaded cold.

But, according to the experts writing for e-cloth.com, there's plenty of quick and easy ways to beat the sniffles in the comfort of your own home. Here, they've shared the best flu-fighters you can conjure up from your kitchen cupboard.

As we head into December, many of us end up skipping the Christmas parties with a towel over our heads when we get struck down with a dreaded cold but experts have shared the best home remedies for beating the sniffles

Whip up some chicken soup: The broth prevents the buildup of mucus by stopping a particular type of white blood cell (neutrophil) from joining together and causing inflammation. It also thins it down too, helping you to breathe more easily.

The onions and garlic add phytonutrients, which are vital for a healthy immune system. Glucosamine, which is an important building block in our digestive system, is released from the bones as they are cooked down forming gelatine on the surface. This combo of gelatine and Glucosamine help restore balance to our digestive tract and connective tissues.

Why not add some chilli flakes for a spicy kick that also acts as an added decongestant?

Sip hot black or green tea with honey and lemon: Hot liquids help relieve nasal congestion, and while honey and lemon is a firm favourite for soothing a cold, this drink has the added benefits of stimulating the tiny hair follicles in the nose (cilia) to move germs out more efficiently when breathing in the steam.

The honey has antibacterial properties and lemon thins mucus. If anything is going to shift that blocked nose, it’s this!

Nibble Brazil nuts: Brazil nuts are packed full of selenium - good for boosting your immune system. Selenium helps the body defend itself against bacteria that can lead to colds and flu.

Hot liquids help relieve nasal congestion, and honey and lemon tea, as well as green and black, are all great for beating a cold

Drink zingy ginger and garlic tea: If you’re feeling a little more adventurous then you might like to try this take on a honey and lemon drink.

Both ginger and garlic have an incredible amount of symptom-relieving properties to help prevent nausea, clear congestion and reduce fever.

Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a teapot with a tablespoon of honey. Grate and add 4g of ginger (daily recommended intake), a small clove of crushed garlic and a pinch of paprika. Add hot water and voila!

Pop some zinc: Balanced diets should provide enough zinc but lozenges have the added benefit of killing viruses in your throat. Zinc supports the body’s natural defence and repair systems, helping to battle illness. Taken when the first signs of cold and flu appear, it will give you an extra boost to fight infection.

Try some echinacea: This flowering plant has been used as a traditional herbal remedy for centuries and is usually taken as a tablet, tea or throat sweet. The jury is out as to whether it really works; studies have shown it may have a slight benefit in preventing colds as it boosts the production of white blood cells which fight infection.

Add some spice: Cinnamon and cloves are packed full of antioxidants, while turmeric is considered to have anti-inflammatory properties, all of which help to improve the function of the immune system. Research suggests a teaspoon a day will help ward off viruses. Try adding cinnamon to your morning porridge for a tasty and nutritious treat or sprinkle nutmeg over scrambled egg and pancakes, yum!

Do some yoga: The most common way most people prolong their cold’s during winter is by getting stressed out. When your body is under stress you are more susceptible to viral infections that cause coughs, colds and flu; so, try introducing 10 minutes of yoga a day into your life to de-stress, advises GP and Olbas expert Dr. Roger Henderson.