Rajon Rondo Suspended 1 Game by Bulls: Latest Details, Comments, Reaction
Rajon Rondo Suspended 1 Game by Bulls: Latest Details, Comments, Reaction
The Chicago Bulls announced a one-game suspension of guard Rajon Rondo on Monday due to conduct detrimental to the team. Marc J. Spears of The Undefeated reported the news, which was announced by a Bulls press release. He will serve the suspension Monday when the team plays the Portland Trail Blazers . "I don't think I was aggressive enough offensively," Rondo told reporters after the game. "I'm a pass-first point guard. But I need to get us in the flow and the rhythm of our offense. I have to do a better job of getting into the paint and making better decisions with the ball." Rondo, 30, is averaging                 The NBA  suspended Rondo one game last season after an incident with an official. He was also previously banned two games for a physical altercation in 2012 when playing for the Boston Celtics . Isaiah Canaan will also see extended minutes.

The Chicago Bulls announced a one-game suspension of guard Rajon Rondo on Monday due to conduct detrimental to the team.

Marc J. Spears of The Undefeated reported the news, which was announced by a Bulls press release. He will serve the suspension Monday when the team plays the Portland Trail Blazers.

Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Rondo had a "heated exchange" with an assistant coach after the game. Chris Kuc and K.C. Johnson of the Chicago Tribune reported Rondo threw a towel in the direction of associate head coach Jim Boylen during the game.

Rondo has since apologized.

"I don't think I was aggressive enough offensively," Rondo told reporters after the game. "I'm a pass-first point guard. But I need to get us in the flow and the rhythm of our offense. I have to do a better job of getting into the paint and making better decisions with the ball."

Rondo, 30, is averaging 8.2 points, 7.2 assists and 6.7 rebounds per game and has started 17 of the Bulls' 19 games. He is in his first season in Chicago after signing a two-year contract this offseason.

The suspension comes two days after Rondo had a rough outing against the Dallas Mavericks. He finished with just two points, two rebounds and two assists while playing 24 minutes against his former team, finishing with more turnovers (five) than field-goal attempts (four).

Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said Rondo has been "great for us all year" after Saturday's loss, and the point guard has adjusted his game for a less ball-dominant approach while playing alongside Dwyane Wade and Jimmy Butler. Rondo was coming off a triple-double against the Cleveland Cavaliers in arguably his best performance of the season Friday.

The Mavericks crowd, still bitter over Rondo's angst-filled stop in Dallas, booed the Bulls point guard as a struggling Dallas team earned a 107-82 win. In February 2015, the Mavs suspended Rondo one game after an altercation with coach Rick Carlisle, and the point guard never fit in despite Dallas unloading a sizable haul to secure him.

The NBA suspended Rondo one game last season after an incident with an official. He was also previously banned two games for a physical altercation in 2012 when playing for the Boston Celtics.

Jerian Grant will start in Rondo's place. Isaiah Canaan will also see extended minutes.

Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.