Megyn Kelly Doesn't Deny Report About Leaving Fox for CNN
Megyn Kelly Doesn't Deny Report About Leaving Fox for CNN
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Megyn Kelly has responded to reports she could leave Fox News for CNN, telling viewers not to believe anything that doesn’t come directly from her — but also not denying the possibility outright. In a post to her official Twitter account over the weekend, the 46-year-old star Fox News anchor forcefully responded to reports that she could leave her longtime home at the cable news outlet when her contract expires this year. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “Many reporters are writing articles about me and my future at Fox,” Kelly wrote. “Don’t believe a thing u hear unless it comes from me, period [sic].” Many reporters are writing articles about me and my future at Fox. Don't believe a thing u hear unless it comes from me, period. — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) December 3, 2016 In an exclusive story last week, the Drudge Report reported that CNN boss Jeff Zucker is “actively pursuing” Kelly to move to his network to anchor an 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. show, which would put her directly in competition with her current network-mate Bill O’Reilly. A source told the Drudge Report that Zucker is “moving the Himalayan mountains” to get the star anchor, but that CNN could not match Fox News’ lucrative contract offer, which is said to be around $20 million. Instead, a source said, Zucker and CNN could offer Kelly greater international exposure as well as “synergy” across all Time Warner properties, including possible movie roles at Warner Bros. Drudge also reported that Kelly’s public feud with now-President-elect Donald Trump during the contentious election season has raised tensions inside the network, and that the anchor is now “despised” by her on-air colleagues. There is also reportedly significant drama within the network over Kelly’s just-published memoir, , in which she accused former Fox News boss Roger Ailes of sexually harassing her during her early years at the cable news outlet. Meanwhile, Ailes successors Lachlan and James Murdoch reportedly see Kelly as the centerpiece of the network in a post-Ailes world. According to an October article in , Rupert Murdoch’s sons have played a key role in attempting to convince Kelly to stay at Fox News. Kelly’s contract expires in July 2017.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Megyn Kelly has responded to reports she could leave Fox News for CNN, telling viewers not to believe anything that doesn’t come directly from her — but also not denying the possibility outright.

In a post to her official Twitter account over the weekend, the 46-year-old star Fox News anchor forcefully responded to reports that she could leave her longtime home at the cable news outlet when her contract expires this year.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“Many reporters are writing articles about me and my future at Fox,” Kelly wrote. “Don’t believe a thing u hear unless it comes from me, period [sic].”

Many reporters are writing articles about me and my future at Fox. Don't believe a thing u hear unless it comes from me, period. — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) December 3, 2016

In an exclusive story last week, the Drudge Report reported that CNN boss Jeff Zucker is “actively pursuing” Kelly to move to his network to anchor an 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. show, which would put her directly in competition with her current network-mate Bill O’Reilly.

A source told the Drudge Report that Zucker is “moving the Himalayan mountains” to get the star anchor, but that CNN could not match Fox News’ lucrative contract offer, which is said to be around $20 million. Instead, a source said, Zucker and CNN could offer Kelly greater international exposure as well as “synergy” across all Time Warner properties, including possible movie roles at Warner Bros.

Drudge also reported that Kelly’s public feud with now-President-elect Donald Trump during the contentious election season has raised tensions inside the network, and that the anchor is now “despised” by her on-air colleagues.

There is also reportedly significant drama within the network over Kelly’s just-published memoir, Settle for More, in which she accused former Fox News boss Roger Ailes of sexually harassing her during her early years at the cable news outlet.

Meanwhile, Ailes successors Lachlan and James Murdoch reportedly see Kelly as the centerpiece of the network in a post-Ailes world. According to an October article in Vanity Fair, Rupert Murdoch’s sons have played a key role in attempting to convince Kelly to stay at Fox News.

Kelly’s contract expires in July 2017.

Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum