Mark Carney warns Britain is suffering first lost decade since 1860 as people across Europe lose trust in globalisation
Mark Carney warns Britain is suffering first lost decade since 1860 as people across Europe lose trust in globalisation 
ritain is experiencing its first “lost decade” of economic growth for 150 years, the Governor of the Bank of England has warned. Mark Carney said it was “incredible” that real incomes had not risen in the past 10 years – a decade which included the financial crisis and a faltering recovery ever since. He said there was a growing sense of “isolation and  detachment” among people who felt left behind by globalisation. fter Sunday’s No vote in the Italian constitutional referendum, the Governor warned that the eurozone countries still had work to do to ensure the survival of the single currency. Ulrich Grillo, the head of the Federation of German Industries, said that the defeat handed to Matteo Renzi, Italy’s prime minister, placed the euro in danger. “The risks of a new political instability for economic development, the financial markets and the currency union are increasing further,” he said. t a speech in Liverpool on Monday, Mr Carney said: “We meet today during the first lost decade since the 1860s. Over the past decade real earnings have grown at the slowest rate since the mid-19th century.” This lack of growth had caused inequalities, he said, and led people to question their futures and the benefits of globalisation. Many people across the advanced world were “losing trust” in a system that did not “raise all boats”, he said. Far from enjoying a “golden era”, globalisation for these people had become “associated with low wages, insecure employment, stateless corporations and striking inequalities”. e warned: “Turning our backs on open markets would be a tragedy, but it is a possibility.” The success of populist, anti-establishment movements, such as Brexit, the rise of the French Front National and the recent Italian referendum, has been linked to dissatisfaction with globalisation across Europe. Middle-class incomes in Western economies have suffered with the growth of Chinese and emerging-market manufacturing and widespread automation. Mr Carney said that while measures in the Autumn Statement, including higher investment spending, would “begin the process of rebalancing policies”, he said that putting “individuals back in control” by equipping workers with the skills needed to adapt to technological change were vital. He also said “the tide must be turned back on stateless corporations” in order to maintain a sense of fairness. “Companies must be rooted and pay tax somewhere,” he said. sked about the impact of the Italian vote on the euro, Mr Carney said: “The euro is unfinished business. There are still a variety of measures that need to be taken ... to make it durable over the long term.” Italian bank stocks fell in the wake of Sunday’s vote and the Centre for Economics and Business Research, a leading economics consultancy, said that it now estimated the chances of Italy staying in the euro for the next five years had fallen below 30 per cent. arine Le Pen, the French Front National leader who is expected to challenge strongly for the country’s presidency next year, welcomed the dethroning of Mr Renzi, saying that his defeat had sent a “signal” to France about “absurd” austerity policies imposed from Brussels and Berlin. European leaders did their best to put a brave face on the loss of a prime minister who had embraced European economic reforms, but whose “back-me-or-sack-me” call over the referendum was rejected by an emphatic 59 per cent to 41 per cent margin. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said she was saddened by Mr Renzi’s defeat, but said that Europe would continue on its current course. “From my point of view… we have set the right priorities,” she said. rank-Walter Steinmeier, the German foreign minister, gave a franker assessment, conceding that the rejection of Mr Renzi was “not a positive development in the case of the general crisis in Europe”. In Rome, Italy’s populist parties called for immediate elections as negotiations began over the formation of a government after Mr Renzi’s resignation. On Monday night analysts said they believed Britain will end the year as the fastest growing economy in the G7, after positive signs from the purchasing managers’ index, which surveys businesses.

Britain is experiencing its first “lost decade” of economic growth for 150 years, the Governor of the Bank of England has warned.

Mark Carney said it was “incredible” that real incomes had not risen in the past 10 years – a decade which included the financial crisis and a faltering recovery ever since.

He said there was a growing sense of “isolation and detachment” among people who felt left behind by globalisation.