Why just 1 glass of wine a day could KILL you
Why a glass of wine a day could KILL you


Drinking just one glass of wine or bottle of beer a day could trigger a dangerous 'heart flutter', experts warn.

Data from more than 900,000 people suggests regular drinking - even at light levels - can be dangerous to the heart.

Experts found drinking one 'standard' drink a day - defined as about 340ml of 5 per cent strength beer, or 140ml of 12 per cent strength wine - increased the risk of an abnormal heart rhythm by 8 per cent.

And every extra drink consumed daily increases the risk by another 8 per cent, they found.

Data from more than 900,000 people suggests regular drinking - even at light levels - can be dangerous to the heart

An abnormal heart rhythm, known medically as atrial fibrillation, is a major cause of strokes and heart failure.

The condition affects an estimated one million people in the UK, and becomes more common with age, affecting about seven in 100 people aged over 65.

Experts previously knew binge drinking could trigger atrial fibrillation, a problem doctors called 'holiday heart syndrome'.

But the new study, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, is the first solid evidence it can be triggered by even light drinking.

The team, which examined data from people who were monitored for at least 12 years, said 'habitual drinking' raises the risk at any level.

Scientists think this is because alcohol alters the electrical signals that regulate the contraction of heart muscle cells, and also interferes with the autonomic nervous system that controls pulse and breathing rates.

Drinking can also lead to small amounts of fibrous tissue building within the heart, which may also interfere with heart rate.

Lead researcher Professor Peter Kistler, from the Alfred Hospital in Melbourne, Australia, said: 'There has been a lot of attention in recent years about the benefits of drinking small amounts of alcohol for the heart.

'The results are significant, since chances are, there are people who are consuming one to two glasses of alcohol per day that may not realize they are putting themselves at risk for irregular heartbeat.'

Experts found drinking one 'standard' drink a day increased the risk of an abnormal heart rhythm by 8 per cent

The researchers advised people who experienced occasional irregular heartbeats to limit their alcohol consumption to one drink a day, and ensure they have two 'dry' days per week.

Christopher Allen, senior cardiac nurse at the British Heart Foundation, said: 'The festive period is often a time of feasting and celebrations which can often lead to an increase in alcohol consumption.

'There is no truly 'safe' amount of alcohol you can drink and even if you don't exceed the recommended guidelines of 14 units per week, you could still be putting your heart health at risk.

MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN DRINKING TOO MUCH BOOZE Middle-aged women are drinking three times as much alcohol as they should be, research has suggested. Many are counting one unit as one glass - even if it contains a third of a bottle of wine, experts claimed. More than a quarter of 2,000 British women aged between 40 and 65 years old drink between five and 16 glasses each week. While five per cent admitted to drinking more than 16 alcohol drinks over the course of a week. But while government guidelines state we should stick to no more than 14 units a week, many women are assuming this means 14 glasses.

'Any small benefits there could be from drinking alcohol are far outweighed by the risks and drinking too much could lead to irregular heart rhythms and also liver failure, high blood pressure and stroke.'

More than 10 million people in England drink more than the Government's recommended weekly limit of 14 units - the equivalent of six or seven glasses of wine.

The Government's chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies earlier this year warned people to think about the health risk - every time they reached for the bottle.

She said she was particularly worried about the risk of cancer.

'I would like people to take their choice knowing the issues and do as I do when I reach for my glass of wine and think - do I want the glass of wine or do I want to raise my risk of breast cancer?' she told a Commons select committee in February.

'I take a decision each time I have a glass.'

A report published by Public Health England last Friday reported that Britain is one the only countries in Western Europe in which death rates from drinking are still rising.