Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman?
Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman?
Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman? Playoff? That's not what this committee had in mind Bama courts history amid unusual playoff landscape Get used to it, people: There's no surefire CFP path Source: QB Morris transferring from Michigan The tragic tale behind a Heisman underdog This bowl season, the biggest game is also the most entertaining Franklin: Penn State 'excited' for bowl despite CFP snub Meet the overlooked leader of Alabama's dominant defense How Alabama thrived in the face of massive expectations 41 bowl games, 42 predictions 1 Related 2016-17 College Football Playoff and bowl schedule Purdue hits the jackpot by hiring Jeff Brohm as head coach Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment The finalists for the 82nd Heisman Memorial Trophy are in: Baker Mayfield , Lamar Jackson , Dede Westbrook , Deshaun Watson and Jabrill Peppers form this season's contenders for the coveted honor. So which top collegiate star gets your vote? Mayfield, Jackson and Watson all put up spectacular numbers at quarterback, while Westbrook was one of the nation's most prolific receivers, and the versatile Peppers made his presence felt all over the field on defense. All five candidates have stellar cases for the honor which will be announced Saturday at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The finalists for the 82nd Heisman Memorial Trophy are in:

Baker Mayfield, Lamar Jackson, Dede Westbrook, Deshaun Watson and Jabrill Peppers form this season's contenders for the coveted honor.

So which top collegiate star gets your vote?

Mayfield, Jackson and Watson all put up spectacular numbers at quarterback, while Westbrook was one of the nation's most prolific receivers, and the versatile Peppers made his presence felt all over the field on defense.

All five candidates have stellar cases for the honor which will be announced Saturday at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN.