J.R. Smith Injury: Updates on Cavaliers Star's Knee and Return
J.R. Smith Injury: Updates on Cavaliers Star's Knee and Return
Cleveland Cavaliers shooting guard J.R. Smith has not played since he suffered a left knee injury Monday against the Toronto Raptors and was ruled out for the remainder of the game, per Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com. It is unclear when he will be able to return. Continue for updates. Smith Out vs. Knicks Tuesday, Dec. 6 The Cavaliers announced Smith will not play against the New York Knicks on Wednesday. Smith's Test Results Revealed Tuesday, Dec. 6 An MRI showed no damage, and Smith is considered day-to-day, per Brian Windhorst of ESPN.com. X-rays on Smith's knee were also negative, according to McMenamin .                 Smith Has Been Outstanding Fit for Cavaliers Smith dealt with a right knee bruise and quad tendinitis in November last season, but he returned to the lineup following a brief absence. Smith proceeded to average 12.4 points per game on 41.5 percent shooting from the field and 40.0 percent shooting from three-point range during the regular season, and he continued to light it up in the playoffs. During Cleveland's NBA title run, Smith knocked down triples at a 43.0 percent clip Even though the Cavaliers don't have any players who can replicate Smith's clutch microwave scoring, they do have some solid wing depth to experiment with in his absence. Iman Shumpert, Richard Jefferson and Mike Dunleavy Jr. are all capable of assuming heavier workloads, and they should be the primary options to pick up the slack if Smith misses more time.

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Cleveland Cavaliers shooting guard J.R. Smith has not played since he suffered a left knee injury Monday against the Toronto Raptors and was ruled out for the remainder of the game, per Dave McMenamin of ESPN.com.

It is unclear when he will be able to return.

Continue for updates.

Smith Out vs. Knicks

Tuesday, Dec. 6

The Cavaliers announced Smith will not play against the New York Knicks on Wednesday.

Smith's Test Results Revealed

Tuesday, Dec. 6

An MRI showed no damage, and Smith is considered day-to-day, per Brian Windhorst of ESPN.com. X-rays on Smith's knee were also negative, according to McMenamin.

Smith Has Been Outstanding Fit for Cavaliers

Smith dealt with a right knee bruise and quad tendinitis in November last season, but he returned to the lineup following a brief absence.

Smith proceeded to average 12.4 points per game on 41.5 percent shooting from the field and 40.0 percent shooting from three-point range during the regular season, and he continued to light it up in the playoffs.

During Cleveland's NBA title run, Smith knocked down triples at a 43.0 percent clip—including a 14-of-28 showing in the second round against the Atlanta Hawks.

"He has an incredible, innate talent for just hitting tough shots, and no matter the time and game [situation], we just know that at any given moment it can go up with him, and that's not necessarily in a negative way at all," Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving told McMenamin.

Smith was averaging 8.1 points per game on 30.8 percent shooting from the field and 33.0 percent shooting from three in the 2016-17 campaign coming into Monday's game.

Even though the Cavaliers don't have any players who can replicate Smith's clutch microwave scoring, they do have some solid wing depth to experiment with in his absence.

Iman Shumpert, Richard Jefferson and Mike Dunleavy Jr. are all capable of assuming heavier workloads, and they should be the primary options to pick up the slack if Smith misses more time.