Vin Diesel: 'Guardians of the Galaxy' Director James Gunn Wants a Rocket and Groot Spinoff
Vin Diesel: 'Guardians of the Galaxy' Director James Gunn Wants a Rocket and Groot Spinoff
Vin Diesel has sometimes been known to jump the gun on announcing things. Case in point: when he recently teased the trailer's premiere date months in advance (he's predicting an Oscar win , too). So it's not really surprising that the actor known for freewheeling interviews offered up some very premature information during a recent interview with . Diesel was sitting down during Brazil Comic Con to promote his latest film, when the interviewer asked him about the possibility of his tree character Groot from Marvel's franchise appearing on screen alongside Spider-Man. Diesel's answer: "That's an interesting question. I think if it's up to ( director) James Gunn, you're going to see a Groot and  Rocket movie after . That's highly possible. We shall see. ... I know that there's somewhere in the universe that you're gonna see Groot and Hulk battle, I know it." Gunn, not surprisingly, hasn't responded publicly to the possibility of a spinoff starring Groot and Rocket Raccoon, who's voiced by Bradley Cooper, but it's an interesting possibility. The "Infinity Wars" Diesel was talking about is , which is confirmed to be featuring characters from . As far as a Groot vs. Hulk throwdown, it has actually happened in the comic books , so it's not that crazy an idea. The first teaser trailer for was released two days ago, and quickly became the second biggest teaser of all time, according to Gunn himself. With 81 Million views in one day the #GotGVol2 Teaser Trailer is the 2ND BIGGEST TEASER EVER. Thanks to all of you! https://t.co/yBWllR6cbN That's still not nearly as many views as the 100 million that the trailer for racked up in only two days last month.

Vin Diesel has sometimes been known to jump the gun on announcing things. Case in point: when he recently teased the Fast 8 trailer's premiere date months in advance (he's predicting an Oscar win, too).

So it's not really surprising that the actor known for freewheeling interviews offered up some very premature information during a recent interview with Screen Junkies. Diesel was sitting down during Brazil Comic Con to promote his latest film, XxX: The Return of Xander Cage, when the interviewer asked him about the possibility of his tree character Groot from Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy franchise appearing on screen alongside Spider-Man.

Diesel's answer:

"That's an interesting question. I think if it's up to (Guardians of the Galaxy director) James Gunn, you're going to see a Groot and Rocket movie after Infinity Wars. That's highly possible. We shall see. ... I know that there's somewhere in the universe that you're gonna see Groot and Hulk battle, I know it."

Gunn, not surprisingly, hasn't responded publicly to the possibility of a spinoff starring Guardians' Groot and Rocket Raccoon, who's voiced by Bradley Cooper, but it's an interesting possibility. The "Infinity Wars" Diesel was talking about is Avengers: Infinity War, Part 1, which is confirmed to be featuring characters from Guardians of the Galaxy. As far as a Groot vs. Hulk throwdown, it has actually happened in the comic books, so it's not that crazy an idea.

The first teaser trailer for Guardians of the Galaxy: Vol. 2 was released two days ago, and quickly became the second biggest teaser of all time, according to Gunn himself.

With 81 Million views in one day the #GotGVol2 Teaser Trailer is the 2ND BIGGEST TEASER EVER. Thanks to all of you! https://t.co/yBWllR6cbN — James Gunn (@JamesGunn) December 5, 2016

That's still not nearly as many views as the 100 million that the trailer for XxX: The Return of Xander Cage racked up in only two days last month.