Christmas advert for obscure Polish website is viewed 2 MILLION times around the world
Christmas advert for obscure Polish website becomes surprise hit


We are used to a flurry of Christmas adverts from the big retailers, who spend millions competing to grab the public's imagination.

But this year's winner might be a little-known Polish auction website, whose offering is being lauded on social media as the most touching of the season.

It tells the story of a grandfather from Poland who learns English to be able to speak to his grandchild in the UK for the first time.

The advert tells the story of a grandfather from Poland who learns English to be able to speak to his grandchild in the UK for the first time. Here, he sits down and recites new phrases

In one amusing scene, he says, 'I love you, you are perfect', on the bus, to the surprise of a woman sitting in front of him

The advert, by Allegro, begins with the old man opening a parcel, which contains a guide to learning English for beginners.

He puts on his glasses, makes a cup of tea and sits down with the book, beginning to recite phrases in broken English.

To help pick up new vocabulary he puts stickers on household objects, like 'pot' and 'toilet', and recites phrases out loud.

In one amusing scene, he says, 'I love you, you are perfect', on the bus, to the surprise of a woman sitting in front of him.

Then the man is seen boarding a plane to London, all the while repeating, 'Hi, I am'. After landing, he gets in a black cab (pictured)

The advert received an overwhelmingly positive reaction on Twitter, with one user commenting: 'I'm sobbing, this is so cute'

Then the man is seen boarding a plane to London, all the while repeating, 'Hi, I am'.

He takes a black cab, which pulls up at a house decorated with two Christmas trees on either side of the front door.

Opening the door is a man, presumably his son, who welcomes him inside, where a little girl is waiting shyly in the corner.

He kneels down, with his eyes moist, and says to the girl: 'Hi, I am your grandpa'.

The cab pulls up at a house decorated with two Christmas trees on either side of the front door, which belongs to his son and daughter-in-law. A little girl is waiting shyly in the corner

He kneels down, with his eyes moist, and says to the girl: 'Hi, I am your grandpa'

The advert received an overwhelmingly positive reaction on Twitter, with one user commenting: 'I'm sobbing, this is so cute'.

Another wrote: 'Real tears were shed watching this'.