Trump Picks His Enemy, Accuses China Of Currency Manipulation. Chinese Media Says He's 'Inexperienced'
Trump Picks His Enemy, Accuses China Of Currency Manipulation. Chinese Media Says He's 'Inexperienced'
Trump Picks His Enemy, Accuses China Of Currency Manipulation. Chinese Media Says He's 'Inexperienced' American President-elect is stewing up a storm on Twitter once again and this time with China accusing the Asian super-power of currency manipulation and military expansionism in the South China Sea. The taunt came two days after Trump accepted a call from the Taiwanese President and thereby risked offending Beijing. Taiwan and China have a politically strained relationship over China's governance of the island. He asked on Twitter, “Did China ask us if it was OK to devalue their currency [making it hard for U.S. companies to compete], heavily tax our products going into their country [the US doesn't tax them] or to build a massive military complex in the middle of the South China Sea?” and added, “I don’t think so!” Did China ask us if it was OK to devalue their currency (making it hard for our companies to compete), heavily tax our products going into.. their country (the U.S. doesn't tax them) or to build a massive military complex in the middle of the South China Sea? I don't think so! China was frequently targeted by Trump during his presidential campaign, where he even said climate change was a hoax cooked up by the Chinese. The Asian giant is the United States' largest trading partner, but America ran a $366 billion deficit with Beijing in goods and services in 2015, up 6.6 percent on the year before. Trump escalated Chinese anger when he accepted a congratulatory call from Taiwan’s Preside, Tsai Ing-wen. But America’s incoming vice-president Mike Pence subdued the issue by attesting the call as a courtesy.

American President-elect is stewing up a storm on Twitter once again and this time with China accusing the Asian super-power of currency manipulation and military expansionism in the South China Sea.

Livemint

The taunt came two days after Trump accepted a call from the Taiwanese President and thereby risked offending Beijing. Taiwan and China have a politically strained relationship over China's governance of the island.

Reuters

He asked on Twitter, “Did China ask us if it was OK to devalue their currency [making it hard for U.S. companies to compete], heavily tax our products going into their country [the US doesn't tax them] or to build a massive military complex in the middle of the South China Sea?” and added, “I don’t think so!”

Did China ask us if it was OK to devalue their currency (making it hard for our companies to compete), heavily tax our products going into.. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016

their country (the U.S. doesn't tax them) or to build a massive military complex in the middle of the South China Sea? I don't think so! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016

China was frequently targeted by Trump during his presidential campaign, where he even said climate change was a hoax cooked up by the Chinese.

The Asian giant is the United States' largest trading partner, but America ran a $366 billion deficit with Beijing in goods and services in 2015, up 6.6 percent on the year before.

Trump escalated Chinese anger when he accepted a congratulatory call from Taiwan’s Preside, Tsai Ing-wen. But America’s incoming vice-president Mike Pence subdued the issue by attesting the call as a courtesy.

State media in China played cautiously and blamed Trump’s “inexperience”.

With inputs from AFP