The dangerous stakes of the NFL make Cam Newton’s necktie benching seem ludicrous

Cam Newton, who had missed one game this season owing to the effects of a concussion, was held out of the Carolina Panthers’ first series Sunday night as punishment. His crime: Failure to wear a tie on the team plane. He hadn’t packed enough button-downs and was left with only a turtleneck, and he didn’t want to sit there looking like a fool. “There was a lot of ties I was given,” Newton said in his postgame press conference, gesturing at the offending turtleneck, “but I can’t wear a tie with this.” In the second quarter, after he had been reinstated, Newton rifled a pass down the middle of the field. Seattle Seahawks safety Earl Thomas, who missed none of the first 106 games of his career, launched into the play in the style he always exhibits, turning his body into a warhead. As he hurtled against a teammate, Thomas broke the largest bone in his shin. A cart carried him off the field. “This game has been so good to me no regrets,” Thomas tweeted, before the game had ended. “A lot is running through my mind including retirement.” Football players are told from their first practices as children about the necessity of sacrifice. Nobody is above the team. That’s part of the pact. Football requires its participants to sacrifice their bodies for the collective benefit of their teammates. It does not require the militaristic subjugation of personality. The people who run the sport – management, coaches, league executives –confuse and conflate those sacrifices.   NFL players live on the constant verge of life-altering injury. In accepting grave physical risk, players pay the cost for a comfortable living, adulation and the frenzied bliss of competition at the highest level. Must their price also include freedom of expression? Why does a 27-year-old father need to be told how to dress on his way to work? The kind of sacrifice Earl Thomas made Sunday night is essential to the sport. The kind to which the Panthers subjected Cam Newton is artifice. Those willing to take the risks inherent to playing football have earned the right to make reasonable adult choices. The current dynamic implies that in order to be granted the opportunity to put themselves in imminent peril, players must first capitulate to a paternalistic authority. Another thing happened this week. The NFL permitted cleats decorated with emblems pertaining to causes important to the player, and it celebrated the promotion heavily. In a typical week, the NFL enforces uniform rules strenuously, not unlike the “dress code violation” Coach Ron Rivera invoked Sunday night. The NFL enables individuality only on its paternalistic terms, and to its perceived benefit. In their world, it’s not the players bringing attention to causes; it’s the NFL doing so, through those players.   Rivera spends time hanging out in Carolina’s locker room, and he played in the NFL for the 1980s Chicago Bears. He is not regarded as a tyrant. But in his decision to bench Newton on Sunday night, he made a misguided attempt to assert authority. For a coach, mandated ties can accomplish the appearance of control, an indication the team is obedient to him. It’s not really about the clothes, as Rivera benching Newton shows. Regardless of how anyone’s inner fashion critic likes Newton’s out-there attire, he does not disrespect himself nor his audience with how he dresses. Newton’s threads will meet whatever broad standard of decency is set. To make it about a specific article of clothing is enforcing conformity. Rivera may have had ample, sound reasons to be frustrated with Newton. Through his history of strong performance and willingness to risk his physical well-being, Newton deserved to have those reasons aired in a straightforward manner. Benching him for something as trivial as lacking a tie reeks of a coach seeking submission for the sake of his own authority. Does he really think players who could break bones on every play can’t see through that? Playing a violent game does not make it acceptable for players to do anything they want within the confines of their profession. But it should provide them a measure of respect from the people who, even if they employ them, profit off them. They should be treated like professionals, not schoolchildren who might wear the wrong uniform to class or get detention for doodling on their shoes. The physical hazard of football makes a lot about the sport grimly serious. Flying on the charter plane is not one of those things. Rivera said he wanted to treat Newton as any other player. It implies Newton needed to dress a certain way to fit in, to earn respect from teammates. He does that every week, by making himself vulnerable to hits that could scramble his brain, by his willingness to be the next Earl Thomas. Whether he wears a tie or not has nothing to do with it.



Cam Newton got benched for a misguided reason. (AP Photo/Ted S. Warren)

Cam Newton, who had missed one game this season owing to the effects of a concussion, was held out of the Carolina Panthers’ first series Sunday night as punishment. His crime: Failure to wear a tie on the team plane. He hadn’t packed enough button-downs and was left with only a turtleneck, and he didn’t want to sit there looking like a fool. “There was a lot of ties I was given,” Newton said in his postgame press conference, gesturing at the offending turtleneck, “but I can’t wear a tie with this.”

In the second quarter, after he had been reinstated, Newton rifled a pass down the middle of the field. Seattle Seahawks safety Earl Thomas, who missed none of the first 106 games of his career, launched into the play in the style he always exhibits, turning his body into a warhead. As he hurtled against a teammate, Thomas broke the largest bone in his shin. A cart carried him off the field. “This game has been so good to me no regrets,” Thomas tweeted, before the game had ended. “A lot is running through my mind including retirement.”

Football players are told from their first practices as children about the necessity of sacrifice. Nobody is above the team. That’s part of the pact. Football requires its participants to sacrifice their bodies for the collective benefit of their teammates. It does not require the militaristic subjugation of personality. The people who run the sport – management, coaches, league executives –confuse and conflate those sacrifices.

[It’s clear the Cowboys own the NFC, but the AFC is suddenly wide open]

NFL players live on the constant verge of life-altering injury. In accepting grave physical risk, players pay the cost for a comfortable living, adulation and the frenzied bliss of competition at the highest level. Must their price also include freedom of expression? Why does a 27-year-old father need to be told how to dress on his way to work? The kind of sacrifice Earl Thomas made Sunday night is essential to the sport. The kind to which the Panthers subjected Cam Newton is artifice.

Those willing to take the risks inherent to playing football have earned the right to make reasonable adult choices. The current dynamic implies that in order to be granted the opportunity to put themselves in imminent peril, players must first capitulate to a paternalistic authority.

Another thing happened this week. The NFL permitted cleats decorated with emblems pertaining to causes important to the player, and it celebrated the promotion heavily. In a typical week, the NFL enforces uniform rules strenuously, not unlike the “dress code violation” Coach Ron Rivera invoked Sunday night. The NFL enables individuality only on its paternalistic terms, and to its perceived benefit. In their world, it’s not the players bringing attention to causes; it’s the NFL doing so, through those players.

[It’s time to take Jameis Winston and the Buccaneers seriously]

Rivera spends time hanging out in Carolina’s locker room, and he played in the NFL for the 1980s Chicago Bears. He is not regarded as a tyrant. But in his decision to bench Newton on Sunday night, he made a misguided attempt to assert authority.

For a coach, mandated ties can accomplish the appearance of control, an indication the team is obedient to him. It’s not really about the clothes, as Rivera benching Newton shows. Regardless of how anyone’s inner fashion critic likes Newton’s out-there attire, he does not disrespect himself nor his audience with how he dresses. Newton’s threads will meet whatever broad standard of decency is set. To make it about a specific article of clothing is enforcing conformity.

Rivera may have had ample, sound reasons to be frustrated with Newton. Through his history of strong performance and willingness to risk his physical well-being, Newton deserved to have those reasons aired in a straightforward manner. Benching him for something as trivial as lacking a tie reeks of a coach seeking submission for the sake of his own authority. Does he really think players who could break bones on every play can’t see through that?

Playing a violent game does not make it acceptable for players to do anything they want within the confines of their profession. But it should provide them a measure of respect from the people who, even if they employ them, profit off them. They should be treated like professionals, not schoolchildren who might wear the wrong uniform to class or get detention for doodling on their shoes.

The physical hazard of football makes a lot about the sport grimly serious. Flying on the charter plane is not one of those things. Rivera said he wanted to treat Newton as any other player. It implies Newton needed to dress a certain way to fit in, to earn respect from teammates. He does that every week, by making himself vulnerable to hits that could scramble his brain, by his willingness to be the next Earl Thomas. Whether he wears a tie or not has nothing to do with it.