Los Angeles Beefs Up Metro Security Amid Terror Threat
Los Angeles Beefs Up Metro Security Amid Terror Threat
Shares               The city of Los Angeles upped its security presence at transit stations after receiving a terror threat on Monday, officials said. Law enforcement officials say the threat came from an English speaking male in a foreign country who called into a foreign “public safety hotline” and was deemed credible enough by U.S. foreign partners to be relayed to the FBI. "This could be real, it could be a hoax, but we must remain calm but vigilant," Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell told KABC. The caller warned of a specific imminent attack, but mistakes limited his credibility, according to law enforcement officials. Federal and local law enforcement officers were notified very early Monday morning. The threat was uncorroborated but officials decided to take additional security measures out of an "abundance of caution," law enforcement sources told ABC News. The caller mentioned a possible attack on Tuesday at the Universal City Red Line station, according to the FBI. The male caller was reporting the threat, not making one himself, officials said. Commuters at the station on Monday night told KABC they were worried, with one person saying he would not ride the train Tuesday. Others said they would continue their normal routines. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he was confident in law enforcement's response to the threat and plans to ride the Red Line on Tuesday as a show of support.   Shares                  Los Angeles Beefs Up Metro Security Amid Terror Threat   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   Search for Victims in Oakland Warehouse Fire Concludes; Death Toll Stands at 36   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   Study: 'Obamacare' Repeal-Only Would Make 30M Uninsured   4 More Infants in NYC Reported to Have Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level   Witness to Fatal Will Smith Shooting Says Suspect Showed 'No Remorse'   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Hundreds Protest White Nationalist at Texas A&M University   China Warns US on Taiwan Leader's Planned Transit   Innovation or Monopoly? Panel Looks at ATT-Time Warner Deal   FBI: 'No Evidence' LA Metro Terror Threat Credible   Attorney: Park Service Quashing Dissent During Inauguration   Men Left 'to Die': Gen. James Mattis' Controversial Wartime Decision   Everything You Need to Know About Gen. James Mattis   Therapy Pig LiLou at San Francisco Airport Helps People Fly   Winter Health Hazards: Tips on Surviving Icy Temps   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'

The city of Los Angeles upped its security presence at transit stations after receiving a terror threat on Monday, officials said.

Law enforcement officials say the threat came from an English speaking male in a foreign country who called into a foreign “public safety hotline” and was deemed credible enough by U.S. foreign partners to be relayed to the FBI.

"This could be real, it could be a hoax, but we must remain calm but vigilant," Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell told KABC.

The caller warned of a specific imminent attack, but mistakes limited his credibility, according to law enforcement officials.

Federal and local law enforcement officers were notified very early Monday morning.

The threat was uncorroborated but officials decided to take additional security measures out of an "abundance of caution," law enforcement sources told ABC News.

The caller mentioned a possible attack on Tuesday at the Universal City Red Line station, according to the FBI. The male caller was reporting the threat, not making one himself, officials said.

Commuters at the station on Monday night told KABC they were worried, with one person saying he would not ride the train Tuesday. Others said they would continue their normal routines.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he was confident in law enforcement's response to the threat and plans to ride the Red Line on Tuesday as a show of support.

ABC News' Tom Liddy contributed to this report.