Brexit: Day two of supreme court hearing concludes - as it happened

including that the royal prerogative powers are insufficient to nullify the 1972 European Communities Act which has a constitutional status. . He also said government must show that parliament “has clearly inferred a power to nullify a statutory scheme”, which he said it had failed to do.  . The amendment was proposed by the SNP’s Alex Salmond but was dismissed by the government because the act was said to “make no provision for what follows” the vote. The prerogative power ends where domestic rights begin, he said. The lawyer argued that the court would be imposing a new rule in a “highly controversial area”, accusing the other side (the respondents) of “tight-rope walking” to make their case.      That’s it for today. The court is adjourned until 10.30am tomorrow. I’ll post a summary shortly.      Pannick says it makes no sense if parliamentary authority was required under section 2(1) of the European Communities Act 1972 for an amendment to UK law if a new treaty is added but not for “destruction” of it, i.e. withdrawal from the treaty. It would mean requiring an act of parliament for the “lesser” of the two actions, he argues. Pannick is making this point: pic.twitter.com/KlUatPP43i One of the justices suggests parliament, through the 1972 Act could have intended to retain control over the terms of membership (i.e. requiring parliamentary authority for amendment) but to allow the executive to leave the “club” without authority. Pannick replies that it’s possible but “unrealistic”. Parliament did not intend to strain at a gnat and swallow a camel, Pannick says. This is the biblical verse about the gnat and camel that Pannick cited.      SC: Don't see it's helpful to look at Plmnt's intention in 1972. Noone contemplated withdrawal then & no provision in Treaty for withdrawal. Pannick: UK could have left EEC in 1973 if Plmnt agreed. Does not accept existence of #Art50 itself alters the prerogative power.      The consensus seems that to be that Pannick is doing a pretty good job - his delivery is certainly punchy and fairly easy to follow. But a barrister from Doughty Street Chambers points out on oversight: Every time Pannick says 'm'Lords' I flinch. I KNOW THERE'S ONLY ONE BUT SHE'S RIGHT IN BLOODY FRONT OF YOU. LIKE TEN FEET AWAY #SupremeCourt The panel consists of ten men and one woman - the deputy president Lady Hale.      The 1972 act was intended to create a “constitutional revolution” and it is inherently implausible it would intend “that it could all be set at nought by the exercise of prerogative powers”, says Pannick. Parliament has created and parliament can take away. Pannick confirms thathe is treating parliament as the source of the law rather than the “conduit” as Eadie suggested yesterday. However flexible our constitution, it cannot be that ministers can use the prerogative to take away powers that parliament has created. The general message conveyed by the 1972 act is very clear as to parliament’s commitment to the new source of law. That the Crown has a role in the Council of Ministers does not advance the government’s case, says Pannick. They’re discussing the long title of the European Communities Act, which was also scrutinised during Eadie’s arguments yesterday. The long title of the act refers to the enlargement of the EU so it cannot be consistent that the executive can use powers to reduce the size of the EU by taking the UK out, asserts Pannick. There is no provision for withdrawal because parliament intended to make the UK’s membership permanent until parliament should decide otherwise, he continues.      Owen Bowcott Fifty-five minutes into his submissions and Lord Pannick QC, who represents the lead claimant Gina Miller, appears to be receiving relatively few challenges from the semi-circle of 11 justices to his developing argument. Royal prerogative powers are not sufficient to nullify the 1972 European Communities Act which has a constitutional status, Pannick asserts.      The 1972 European Communities Act is explicitly not subject to implied repeal and Eadie agrees with this point, says Pannick. He cites the high court judgement saying that as parliament implied it should be exempt form casual repeal by parliament it cannot have intended that it could be repealed by ministers under prerogative powers. Pannick reads the quote saying: “I cannot have put it better myself.” Pannick shows the SC this. pic.twitter.com/Q9tCuJtT7h Pannick goes on: The new legal order doesn’t merely confer rights on individuals in international law ...the new legal order, as recognised by the 1972 [European Communities] act, recognises a body of rights which take effect in national law and which national courts are obliged to protect and enforce. The 1972 Act creates rights and duties whose scope is decided by a court in Luxembourg and its decisions have priority over national courts. Pannick says there’s an irony in this case in that the appellant wants to remove the powerful effect of EU law but that’s the very reason the government cannot act without the authority of parliament.      Lord Pannick sets out seven reasons he believes the Government is wrong to assume it can trigger Article 50 without parliamentary backing pic.twitter.com/jRtVrSOTWp      It’s not easy to find cases in the book because they are rare but what cases there are are all to the same effect (i.e. that prerogative powers cannot be used to take away the domestic rights of citizens), says Pannick. Eadie refers to a number of other examples of the use of prerogative powers in his written case, he continues. We have addressed them in our written statement but none of them involved the use of the prerogative to alter domestic law, “far less to remove a whole body of law”, claims the counsel for Miller. There is no relevant prerogative power in this case. Next he says the government must show clearly that parliament conferred a power on it to alter rights and duties i.e. the power it is claiming in this case. If there’s any doubt upon the power conferred, “it should be resolved by a restrictive approach”.      The prerogative power ends where domestic rights begin, continues Pannick. He is citing some of those “high judicial authorities” he referred to. They include: the Parlement Belge (1879) Laker Airways v Department of Trade (1976) (this case came up yesterday) In the Parlement Belge case, the court said treaty-making prerogative powers could not be used to commandeer a ship.      Hansard extract presented to Supreme Court by Pannick QC. David Lidington told Commons EU Referendum Bill did not define what happens next. pic.twitter.com/icq3HBLNZH      There is simply no prerogative power to nullify, frustrate a statutory scheme, says Pannick. The appellant relies on the well-established power to enter into and resile from international treaties, he continues. The respondent is not denying those powers but the government is not recognising the limitations of those powers to prevent them impinging on parliamentary sovereignty. Miller’s counsel says the crown enjoys a broad power in the making and unmaking of international treaties is precisely because what happens on the international plain can not affect domestic law. He says the limitation of the prerogative to change domestic law are supported by “high judicial authority”.      The government rejected an amendment to give legal force to the referendum, says Pannick. Pannick refers to the transcript of the parliamentary debate and is asked to justify doing so. He says it is permissible to refer to Hansard in court. Lord Pannick tells the court it can look at Hansard to identify the purpose behind the 2015 Act. Courts are reluctant to do that normally. They continue and Pannick says the amendment was proposed by Alex Salmond. The act “did not address any consequence, far less did it address the process for leaving the EU if the people voted, as they did, to leave”. The question for the court is does the appellant have a prerogative power to notify under article 50 (2). This is not to deny any effect to the referendum. The referendum is plainly an act of political significance. But that - political significance - is not a matter for the courts, he continues. If the proper interpretation of the 1972 act is ministers have no power to nullify the rights, the court would need a much clearer statement in the 2015 act that the inhibition is removed, says Pannick. Updated  Topics  EU referendum and Brexit   Article 50   UK supreme court   European Union

15:55

Fifty-five minutes into his submissions and Lord Pannick QC, who represents the lead claimant Gina Miller, appears to be receiving relatively few challenges from the semi-circle of 11 justices to his developing argument.

Royal prerogative powers are not sufficient to nullify the 1972 European Communities Act which has a constitutional status, Pannick asserts.