James Corden Asks Madonna to 'Kiss & Tell' in 'Carpool Karaoke' Preview
James Corden Asks Madonna to 'Kiss & Tell' in 'Carpool Karaoke' Preview
James Corden Asks Madonna to 'Kiss & Tell' in 'Carpool Karaoke' Preview  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The artist joins "The Late Late Show" host for a ridealong on Wednesday. Bestselling recording artist and all-around fashion icon Madonna is the latest passenger in James Corden's "Carpool Karaoke" segment, and she may "vogue" as they drive along, but she won't "kiss and tell." In a preview for the segment set to air Wednesday on , Madonna and Corden drive around New York City  The Grammy winner sings along to "Bitch I'm Madonna" and "Vogue" (complete with dance moves), as Corden tries to ask some personal questions. Corden asks of one of her '90s romances, "What was a night out with Michael Jackson ? Or a night in?" "So you want me to kiss and tell then, don't you?" Madonna counters. Madonna joins a growing list of famous singers in the passenger seat, including Adele,  Justin Bieber , Sia , One Direction , Jennifer Lopez and Michelle Obama. Madonna's segment will air on Wednesday night. Watch the preview below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The artist joins "The Late Late Show" host for a ridealong on Wednesday.

Bestselling recording artist and all-around fashion icon Madonna is the latest passenger in James Corden's "Carpool Karaoke" segment, and she may "vogue" as they drive along, but she won't "kiss and tell."

In a preview for the segment set to air Wednesday on The Late Late Show, Madonna and Corden drive around New York City

The Grammy winner sings along to "Bitch I'm Madonna" and "Vogue" (complete with dance moves), as Corden tries to ask some personal questions.

Corden asks of one of her '90s romances, "What was a night out with Michael Jackson? Or a night in?"

"So you want me to kiss and tell then, don't you?" Madonna counters.

Madonna joins a growing list of famous singers in the passenger seat, including Adele, Justin Bieber, Sia, One Direction, Jennifer Lopez and Michelle Obama. Madonna's segment will air on Wednesday night.

Watch the preview below.

This article was originally published by The Hollywood Reporter.