Madonna Talks Losing Her Mother at 5 Years Old, Her Need for Control and Donald Trump
Madonna Talks Losing Her Mother at 5 Years Old and Her Need for Control 
Shares                Madonna is a self-described "super control freak" and she knows why. The singer, in a wide-ranging interview with Billboard Magazine , said her need to be in control stems from losing her mother to breast cancer at 5 years old. "Obviously, you could say it has to do with my childhood, if you’re going to psychoanalyze me: My mother dying and me not being told, and a sense of loss and betrayal and surprise," she told interviewer Elizabeth Banks . "Then feeling out of control for the majority of my childhood, and becoming an artist and saying that I will control everything."     "No one will speak for me, no one will make decisions for me. You could say I’m a super control freak. That’s what everybody likes to say," Madonna continued. "My shows, my films, my house, the way I raise my children. I take great offense when details are overlooked." Madonna, 58, also takes offense when asked about ageing in the music industry, especially because she feels men aren't asked about aging at the same rate. "I don’t care. It’s the rest of society that cares," she said. "I don’t ever think about my age until someone says something about it. I feel that I have wisdom, experience, knowledge and a point of view that is important. Can a teenager relate to that? Probably not. But that’s OK. I understand that." The "Hold Tight" singer added, "Age is only brought up with regard to women. It’s connected to sexism, chauvinism and misogyny ."  Billboard's Woman of the Year: A snapshot of @Madonna 's life right now #WomeninMusic  https://t.co/z4HMpgvf4A  pic.twitter.com/L3xHMJ6ixC  Madge also used the interview to express her views on President-elect Donald Trump . The singer is among many celebrities who have protested his election. Madonna said "it felt like someone died" when Trump won the presidential election last month. She noted the "insanely high" number of women who voted for Trump instead of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton . "Women hate women. That’s what I think it is," she told Banks. "Women’s nature is not to support other women. It’s really sad." Still, Madonna said that since she believes "we live in a country that's run by bankers," it "makes sense that Donald Trump is the president." "Because money rules. Not intelligence, not experience, not a moral compass, not the ability to make wise ­decisions," she added, "not the ability to think of the future of the human race." Shares                  Madonna Talks Losing Her Mother at 5 Years Old and Her Need for Control   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   Reba McEntire, Kenny Rogers to Perform at Benefit for Tenn. Wildfire Victims   'Spider-Man: Homecoming': First Teaser Clip Features New Suit   Lauren Graham on How She Got Together With Boyfriend Peter Krause   Lady Gaga Writes About Her 'Daily' Struggle With PTSD   Tom Ford: Beyonce Is Perfect Even When They Drop Their Kids at School   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Wears Necklace With Their Initials   Johnny Depp Is Forbes' Most Overpaid Actor, Again   Ben Mendelsohn on Playing 'Rogue One' Villain   Trump's Favorability Rating at 50 Percent, New Poll Shows   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   5 Times Trump Made False or Unsubstantiated Claims   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

Madonna is a self-described "super control freak" and she knows why.

The singer, in a wide-ranging interview with Billboard Magazine, said her need to be in control stems from losing her mother to breast cancer at 5 years old.

"Obviously, you could say it has to do with my childhood, if you’re going to psychoanalyze me: My mother dying and me not being told, and a sense of loss and betrayal and surprise," she told interviewer Elizabeth Banks. "Then feeling out of control for the majority of my childhood, and becoming an artist and saying that I will control everything."

"No one will speak for me, no one will make decisions for me. You could say I’m a super control freak. That’s what everybody likes to say," Madonna continued. "My shows, my films, my house, the way I raise my children. I take great offense when details are overlooked."

Madonna, 58, also takes offense when asked about ageing in the music industry, especially because she feels men aren't asked about aging at the same rate.

"I don’t care. It’s the rest of society that cares," she said. "I don’t ever think about my age until someone says something about it. I feel that I have wisdom, experience, knowledge and a point of view that is important. Can a teenager relate to that? Probably not. But that’s OK. I understand that."

The "Hold Tight" singer added, "Age is only brought up with regard to women. It’s connected to sexism, chauvinism and misogyny."

Madge also used the interview to express her views on President-elect Donald Trump. The singer is among many celebrities who have protested his election.

Madonna said "it felt like someone died" when Trump won the presidential election last month. She noted the "insanely high" number of women who voted for Trump instead of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.

"Women hate women. That’s what I think it is," she told Banks. "Women’s nature is not to support other women. It’s really sad."

Still, Madonna said that since she believes "we live in a country that's run by bankers," it "makes sense that Donald Trump is the president."

"Because money rules. Not intelligence, not experience, not a moral compass, not the ability to make wise ­decisions," she added, "not the ability to think of the future of the human race."