Sheriff deputy dies after car plunges into San Antonio sinkhole
Sheriff deputy dies after car plunges into San Antonio sinkhole
n off-duty sheriff's deputy has died and two other people hurt when two vehicles plunged into a water-filled sinkhole in San Antonio, Texas, officials said on Monday. The Bexar County sheriff's office on Monday identified the victim as 69-year-old deputy Dora Linda Nishihara, who was a courthouse bailiff. We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole Sunday. pic.twitter.com/fETVaqrrCJ “We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole Sunday. Our thoughts and prayers are with her friends and family," Sheriff Susan Pamerleau said in a statement issued after learning about Nishihara's death. "Deputy Nishihara worked as a Reserve Deputy from August 2009 to October 2016 before transitioning to a part-time Deputy at the Bexar County Courthouse in October of this year. We are assisting her family as they deal with this tragedy.” crane was used to retrieve her personal car from water about 12-feet deep. Nishihara's body was inside the vehicle. Sheriff's spokesman James Keith says Nishihara was not working on Sunday when her vehicle went into the sinkhole. SAWS and San Antonio fire officials said the ground ruptured sometime before 5:30pm after a sewer line ruptured during heavy rain earlier in the day, local news said. uthorities say two passers-by rescued a 60-year-old driver after his vehicle fell into the sinkhole on Sunday night. That driver and one of his rescuers were treated for minor injuries. First responders arrived and found a second car submerged in the 10-foot sinkhole . SAWS and fire officials began to work around the clock in an effort to get both vehicles out. rews pulled both vehicles out just after 2pm on Monday. SAWS officials said the rupture of the 96-inch sewer pipe occurred at the junction of decades old pipe with new material SAWS just installed this year. No further information or an official cause for the road collapse has been released, KSAT reports .

An off-duty sheriff's deputy has died and two other people hurt when two vehicles plunged into a water-filled sinkhole in San Antonio, Texas, officials said on Monday.

The Bexar County sheriff's office on Monday identified the victim as 69-year-old deputy Dora Linda Nishihara, who was a courthouse bailiff.