Ailing Sushma Swaraj May Undergo A Kidney Transplant Next Week
Ailing Sushma Swaraj May Undergo A Kidney Transplant Next Week
Ailing Sushma Swaraj May Undergo A Kidney Transplant Next Week External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj is likely to undergo a kidney transplant at AIIMS next week. Swaraj's vitals were stable and she was fit to undergo the life-saving procedure, a senior doctor, who did not want to be identified. "Several people have come forward to donate their kidney . However, chances are that we'll use the one that has been offered by a relative," he said. Any healthy person can safely donate a kidney, given that his other organ is fully functional, say doctors. Both the recipient and the donor are put through multiple tests to avoid co-morbidity that could affect recovery. Also, an HLA-matching test is done to rule out the risk of rejection post-transplant. Doctors said Swaraj (64) had been undergoing treatment for diabetes and other hormonal issues at AIIMS for decades. After the kidney failure diagnosis, she had been undergoing dialysis for the last six months. ALSO READ: Kidney Has No Religious Labels, Sushma Swaraj Tells Muslim Man Who Offered His Kidney To Her AIIMS had already formed a team of experts for the purpose. "As of now, the plan is to conduct the procedure in AIIMS itself. We are only waiting for a clearance from the authorisation committee for the donor," a source said. "I am in AIIMS because of kidney failure ... I am on dialysis.

External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj is likely to undergo a kidney transplant at AIIMS next week.

AFP

Swaraj's vitals were stable and she was fit to undergo the life-saving procedure, a senior doctor, who did not want to be identified.

"Several people have come forward to donate their kidney. However, chances are that we'll use the one that has been offered by a relative," he said.

Any healthy person can safely donate a kidney, given that his other organ is fully functional, say doctors. Both the recipient and the donor are put through multiple tests to avoid co-morbidity that could affect recovery. Also, an HLA-matching test is done to rule out the risk of rejection post-transplant.

AFP

Doctors said Swaraj (64) had been undergoing treatment for diabetes and other hormonal issues at AIIMS for decades. After the kidney failure diagnosis, she had been undergoing dialysis for the last six months.

ALSO READ: Kidney Has No Religious Labels, Sushma Swaraj Tells Muslim Man Who Offered His Kidney To Her

AIIMS

AIIMS had already formed a team of experts for the purpose. "As of now, the plan is to conduct the procedure in AIIMS itself. We are only waiting for a clearance from the authorisation committee for the donor," a source said. "I am in AIIMS because of kidney failure... I am on dialysis.