Female police officers at risk of being groped and assaulted on the front line of Britain's drink crisis
Female police officers at risk of being groped and assaulted on the front line of Britain's drink crisis  
emale police officers are being sexually assaulted as a result of excessive drinking, MPs have warned, as a new report lays bare the extent of the UK's "enormous" problem with alcohol. Emergency services staff are regularly abused in drink-fuelled incidents, a parliamentary committee on alcohol harm has warned, as it emerged some staff are "felt up several times" in the course of one shift. MPs heard evidence from a hospital consultant who was kicked in the face and another who warned A&E staff do not have time to help patients properly because they are forced to deal with so many drunks. In one area, 86 per cent of police officers surveyed had been assaulted by people who had been drinking. nother statement highlighted the extent of sexual assaults on emergency service staff. It said: "I can take my team through a licensed premise, and by the time I take them out the other end, they will have been felt up several times." The MPs are calling for a minimum price for drinks and a lower drink-drive limit to cut crime and violence. Conservative MP Fiona Bruce, chair of the group, said: "Alcohol-fuelled behaviour resulting in criminality, fires or accidents is adding intolerable - yet often unnecessary - pressure on vital resources, and to the work of our emergency services personnel. "It should be wholly unacceptable to hear of an A&E consultant being kicked in the face, medical staff having TVs thrown at them, or female police officers being sexually assaulted. "And it's not just emergency staff who suffer; as this report describes, many other people are impacted too, from taxpayers who foot the bill, to patients who can't be seen promptly, or worse, those innocent people killed in avoidable drunk driving accidents." he report, which took evidence from police officers, fire crews and paramedics, found that scarce resources are too often taken up by people who have had too much to drink. Drink-fuelled crime is estimated to cost the economy £11 billion a year. Evidence submitted by police officers also highlighted the issue of sexual assault. One statement said: "I can take my team through a licensed premise, and by the time I take them out the other end, they will have been felt up several times." Figures released earlier this year showed the number of hotspots which are "saturated" with drinking venues has reached a new high. There were 215 "cumulative impact areas" in England and Wales at the end of March - the highest level since current records started in 2007/8. he so-called "stress areas", are highlighted by officials following a spike in violence or calls to the emergency services. In some A&E departments televisions had to be secured to prevent them being thrown by drunks, while one doctor warned that "inevitably if clinical staff are dealing with patients with alcohol-related problems, they do not have the time to deal with other patients". The report recommended lowering the drink drive limit in England and Wales from 80mg alcohol/100ml blood to 50mg/100ml. It also called for a minimum unit price to reduce the affordability of cheap and high-strength alcohol. Steve Irving, Executive Officer of the Association of Ambulance Chief Executives, said: "The ambulance service attends too many patients suffering from alcohol-related injuries or illnesses, many of which would not occur without the consumption of excess alcohol. "This takes valuable resources away from patients who may be seriously ill so it is clear that more widespread safe drinking, in moderation, would significantly relieve the pressure on ambulance services and the wider health economy, especially emergency departments of local hospitals."

Female police officers are being sexually assaulted as a result of excessive drinking, MPs have warned, as a new report lays bare the extent of the UK's "enormous" problem with alcohol.

Emergency services staff are regularly abused in drink-fuelled incidents, a parliamentary committee on alcohol harm has warned, as it emerged some staff are "felt up several times" in the course of one shift.

MPs heard evidence from a hospital consultant who was kicked in the face and another who warned A&E staff do not have time to help patients properly because they are forced to deal with so many drunks.

In one area, 86 per cent of police officers surveyed had been assaulted by people who had been drinking.