How Trump's Plan To Gut Obamacare Will Take Down Medicare
How Trump's Plan To Gut Obamacare Will Take Down Medicare
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  John Wasik       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Donald Trump's campaign vow to repeal Obamacare is now fast-tracked in Congress and will embraced by his nominees to run the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). But the promise will also have another intended consequence if fully repealed: It will severely damage Medicare, which Republicans also fervently want to dismantle and privatize. Although Trump said during the campaign that he wouldn't touch Medicare or Social Security -- he wouldn't have secured enough Electoral College votes if he had -- tearing apart Obamacare will almost certainly raise costs for Medicare beneficiaries and hasten its decline as a guaranteed, fee-for-service system. Embedded in the Affordable Care Act were a raft of pilot projects and provisions to make medical care for retirees less expensive. The drafters of the act wanted to make doctors more accountable, share in cost savings and cut hospital re-admissions. The Act even cracked down on fraud and abuse in Medicare. The result of the largely unheralded Medicare reforms in Obamacare? Lower operating costs, higher quality care and a sounder financial footing for the program. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong, File) "The protection of Medicare is ensured for years to come," according to Obamacarefacts.com, in assessing how the Affordable Care Act made Medicare more fiscally sound. "The life of the Medicare Trust fund will be extended to at least 2029 -- a 12-year extension due to reductions in waste, fraud and abuse, and Medicare costs, which will provide you with future savings on your premiums and coinsurance." The closest thing Trump's allies have to medical reform is a bill proposed by Rep. Tom Price, who was just nominated by Trump to run HHS. Price has long advocated scrapping Obamacare, but his plan would put in place a far worse substitute. Price's " Empowering Patients First Act " would repeal Obamacare and replace it with a 401(k)-like plan where you'd be exposed to the ravages of the private insurance market and be given tax credits based on your age. Here's a brief analysis by Wired : -- It would leave in place the basic structure of the insurance exchanges but replace the existing income-based subsidy system with age-based tax credits, making the individual market more advantageous for the young and healthy. -- The Price plan also lets insurers charge sick people more if they lapse in coverage—up to 150 percent of the standard premium. -- It also would repeal the expansion of Medicaid, a program that provided more than 12 million low-income Americans with coverage, and replace it with nothing. How would these so-called "reforms" impact Medicare? They wouldn't, at least not immediately. But the same model would be employed in hacking up Medicare, handing retirees a lump sum or "voucher" to buy private insurance policies. Would the voucher be enough to cover a year's worth of medical expenses? Probably not if you have a range of expensive or chronic medical issues, as most older people do. But what if Price acted to remove the Medicare reforms from Obamacare, which would require an act of Congress? It would destabilize the program and make it fiscally unsound . “Medicare’s financing challenges would be much greater without the health reform law (the Affordable Care Act, or ACA), which substantially improved the program’s financial outlook," according to The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “The Affordable Care Act strengthens Medicare's financing by increasing efforts to reduce waste, fraud and abuse; slowing the rate of increase in payments to providers; improving quality of care and phasing out overpayments to private Medicare Advantage plans, plans that are continuing to increase their enrollments each year," the Center adds. "The impact of these provisions has already resulted in extending the solvency of the Medicare Part A Trust Fund by more than a decade and lowering Part B out-of-pocket costs for beneficiaries." More Americans who are too young for Medicare would also lose access to quality healthcare. So when they qualify for Medicare at 65 -- unless Republicans succeed in raising the qualifying age to 67 -- they could be vastly sicker and in need of even more expensive care, further burdening Medicare's stability. "In addition to Medicare beneficiaries, the Affordable Care Act is very important to millions of adults ages 50-64 who are uninsured because they do not have access to affordable private insurance. The number of uninsured `young seniors,' aged 50-64, would increase, leaving them in poorer health by the time they are eligible for Medicare – thereby increasing Medicare’s costs,” according to the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare in a letter to Congress. You won't find any quibble with me that Obamacare failed to reduce medical costs or guarantee affordable premiums. It basically set up a way to ensure that everyone would have access to a private policy. It was a flawed, incremental approach. But a single-payer plan like the one offered to veterans, federal employees, the military and members of Congress is a far better model. One big purchaser gets the best prices for services and drugs. Still, turning healthcare into a GOP-dictated, 401(k)-type system will be a disaster. Look at how well that's worked out for most Americans in providing for retirement. "Even among families approaching retirement (age 56–61)," reports the Economic Policy Institute , "the typical family headed by someone with a high school education or less had savings in retirement accounts." To be sure, Medicare needs a massive overhaul of its fee-for-service model and that is being done through Obamacare. But amputating all of the patient's extremities, then giving him a cane, is not a sound approach.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The 60-Second Guide To Investing Your Retirement Savings

Donald Trump's campaign vow to repeal Obamacare is now fast-tracked in Congress and will embraced by his nominees to run the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

But the promise will also have another intended consequence if fully repealed: It will severely damage Medicare, which Republicans also fervently want to dismantle and privatize.

Although Trump said during the campaign that he wouldn't touch Medicare or Social Security -- he wouldn't have secured enough Electoral College votes if he had -- tearing apart Obamacare will almost certainly raise costs for Medicare beneficiaries and hasten its decline as a guaranteed, fee-for-service system.

Embedded in the Affordable Care Act were a raft of pilot projects and provisions to make medical care for retirees less expensive. The drafters of the act wanted to make doctors more accountable, share in cost savings and cut hospital re-admissions. The Act even cracked down on fraud and abuse in Medicare.

The result of the largely unheralded Medicare reforms in Obamacare? Lower operating costs, higher quality care and a sounder financial footing for the program.

"The protection of Medicare is ensured for years to come," according to Obamacarefacts.com, in assessing how the Affordable Care Act made Medicare more fiscally sound.

"The life of the Medicare Trust fund will be extended to at least 2029 -- a 12-year extension due to reductions in waste, fraud and abuse, and Medicare costs, which will provide you with future savings on your premiums and coinsurance."

The closest thing Trump's allies have to medical reform is a bill proposed by Rep. Tom Price, who was just nominated by Trump to run HHS. Price has long advocated scrapping Obamacare, but his plan would put in place a far worse substitute.

Price's "Empowering Patients First Act" would repeal Obamacare and replace it with a 401(k)-like plan where you'd be exposed to the ravages of the private insurance market and be given tax credits based on your age. Here's a brief analysis by Wired:

-- It would leave in place the basic structure of the insurance exchanges but replace the existing income-based subsidy system with age-based tax credits, making the individual market more advantageous for the young and healthy.

-- The Price plan also lets insurers charge sick people more if they lapse in coverage—up to 150 percent of the standard premium.

-- It also would repeal the expansion of Medicaid, a program that provided more than 12 million low-income Americans with coverage, and replace it with nothing.

How would these so-called "reforms" impact Medicare? They wouldn't, at least not immediately. But the same model would be employed in hacking up Medicare, handing retirees a lump sum or "voucher" to buy private insurance policies.

Would the voucher be enough to cover a year's worth of medical expenses? Probably not if you have a range of expensive or chronic medical issues, as most older people do.

Stripping Medicare Reforms Will Hasten Fiscal Decline of the Program

But what if Price acted to remove the Medicare reforms from Obamacare, which would require an act of Congress? It would destabilize the program and make it fiscally unsound.

“Medicare’s financing challenges would be much greater without the health reform law (the Affordable Care Act, or ACA), which substantially improved the program’s financial outlook," according to The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

“The Affordable Care Act strengthens Medicare's financing by increasing efforts to reduce waste, fraud and abuse; slowing the rate of increase in payments to providers; improving quality of care and phasing out overpayments to private Medicare Advantage plans, plans that are continuing to increase their enrollments each year," the Center adds.

"The impact of these provisions has already resulted in extending the solvency of the Medicare Part A Trust Fund by more than a decade and lowering Part B out-of-pocket costs for beneficiaries."

More Americans who are too young for Medicare would also lose access to quality healthcare. So when they qualify for Medicare at 65 -- unless Republicans succeed in raising the qualifying age to 67 -- they could be vastly sicker and in need of even more expensive care, further burdening Medicare's stability.

"In addition to Medicare beneficiaries, the Affordable Care Act is very important to millions of adults ages 50-64 who are uninsured because they do not have access to affordable private insurance. The number of uninsured `young seniors,' aged 50-64, would increase, leaving them in poorer health by the time they are eligible for Medicare – thereby increasing Medicare’s costs,” according to the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare in a letter to Congress.

You won't find any quibble with me that Obamacare failed to reduce medical costs or guarantee affordable premiums. It basically set up a way to ensure that everyone would have access to a private policy. It was a flawed, incremental approach.

But a single-payer plan like the one offered to veterans, federal employees, the military and members of Congress is a far better model. One big purchaser gets the best prices for services and drugs.

Still, turning healthcare into a GOP-dictated, 401(k)-type system will be a disaster. Look at how well that's worked out for most Americans in providing for retirement.

"Even among families approaching retirement (age 56–61)," reports the Economic Policy Institute, "the typical family headed by someone with a high school education or less had no savings in retirement accounts."

To be sure, Medicare needs a massive overhaul of its fee-for-service model and that is being done through Obamacare. But amputating all of the patient's extremities, then giving him a cane, is not a sound approach.