The Daily Show's Trevor Noah compares Donald Trump's America to apartheid in his home country of South Africa
The Daily Show's Trevor Noah compares Donald Trump's America to apartheid in his home country of South Africa
Trevor Noah has issued many scathing rebukes of Donald Trump but his comparison of Trump’s America to the apartheid system holds a personal resonance and significance that many of his other dressing-downs do not. Born in the townships of Johannesburg in South Africa, show host experienced the Apartheid first-hand. After all, his parents’ relationship was illegal at the time of his birth and he could not walk openly with either of his parents. Ultimately born a crime, as a child he often fell between the cracks of ethnic boundaries. The 32-year-old comedian has now suggested that there are some parallels between the billionaire tycoon’s ferocious and divisive presidential campaign and the system of Apartheid. Noah argued Mr Trump has capitalised on and fuelled already existing divisions in society as a divided populace is far easier to rule. “This has never been more apparent than during Donald J Trump’s campaign for the presidency,” Noah wrote in a column for . “With his flagrant misogyny and racist appeals to fearful voters, Mr Trump succeeded in dividing an electorate already primed to turn against itself.” President Donald Trump life in pictures               President Donald Trump life in pictures       Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York   Reuters        Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open.
She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996   Reuters        U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open   Reuters        Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,'   Reuters        Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King.  Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee   Reuters        Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park.  Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City   Reuters        Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.'   Reuters        Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior   Reuters        Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles   Reuters        U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland   Reuters  “The past year has been so polarising and noxious that even I find myself getting caught up in the extreme grandstanding and vitriol,” he added. “But with extremes come deadlock and the death of progress. Instead of speaking in measured tones about what unites us, we are screaming at each other about what divides us - which is exactly what authoritarian figures like Mr Trump want: Divided people are easier to rule. That was, after all, the whole point of apartheid.”   Trevor Noah picks apart Donald Trump for being a 'sore winner' Noah called for unity and argued Mr Trump’s candidacy shrouded the fact most American citizens had similar aspirations. “His embittering candidacy obscured the fact that the vast majority of Americans, both Republican and Democrat, wanted many of the same things: good jobs, decent homes, access to opportunity and, above all, respect,” he said. Noah also explored the differences between comedy in South Africa and the US. He said while in his home country it brings people together, in America it pulls the country apart. Noah had a big act to follow after he took Jon Stewart’s place on but has speedily found his feet. While overall ratings have dropped, he has boosted the show’s popularity among the 18-34 millennial bracket - a highly regarded demographic among advertisers. More about: Trevor Noah Donald Trump Comments

Trevor Noah has issued many scathing rebukes of Donald Trump but his comparison of Trump’s America to the apartheid system holds a personal resonance and significance that many of his other dressing-downs do not.

Born in the townships of Johannesburg in South Africa, The Daily Show show host experienced the Apartheid first-hand. After all, his parents’ relationship was illegal at the time of his birth and he could not walk openly with either of his parents. Ultimately born a crime, as a child he often fell between the cracks of ethnic boundaries.

The 32-year-old comedian has now suggested that there are some parallels between the billionaire tycoon’s ferocious and divisive presidential campaign and the system of Apartheid. Noah argued Mr Trump has capitalised on and fuelled already existing divisions in society as a divided populace is far easier to rule.

“This has never been more apparent than during Donald J Trump’s campaign for the presidency,” Noah wrote in a column for The New York Times. “With his flagrant misogyny and racist appeals to fearful voters, Mr Trump succeeded in dividing an electorate already primed to turn against itself.”

President Donald Trump life in pictures







16 show all President Donald Trump life in pictures





























1/16 Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence Reuters

2/16 Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York Reuters

3/16 Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open. She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996 Reuters

4/16 U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa Reuters

5/16 Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open Reuters

6/16 Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,' Reuters

7/16 Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King. Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee Reuters

8/16 Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park. Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision Reuters

9/16 Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City Reuters

10/16 Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.' Reuters

11/16 Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

12/16 Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

13/16 Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka Reuters

14/16 Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior Reuters

15/16 Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles Reuters

16/16 U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland Reuters

“The past year has been so polarising and noxious that even I find myself getting caught up in the extreme grandstanding and vitriol,” he added. “But with extremes come deadlock and the death of progress. Instead of speaking in measured tones about what unites us, we are screaming at each other about what divides us - which is exactly what authoritarian figures like Mr Trump want: Divided people are easier to rule. That was, after all, the whole point of apartheid.”

Noah called for unity and argued Mr Trump’s candidacy shrouded the fact most American citizens had similar aspirations. “His embittering candidacy obscured the fact that the vast majority of Americans, both Republican and Democrat, wanted many of the same things: good jobs, decent homes, access to opportunity and, above all, respect,” he said.

Noah also explored the differences between comedy in South Africa and the US. He said while in his home country it brings people together, in America it pulls the country apart.

Noah had a big act to follow after he took Jon Stewart’s place on The Daily Show but has speedily found his feet. While overall ratings have dropped, he has boosted the show’s popularity among the 18-34 millennial bracket - a highly regarded demographic among advertisers.