10 Amazing Cooking Hacks That Can Make Your Life Way Healthier
10 Amazing Cooking Hacks That Can Make Your Life Way Healthier
10 Amazing Cooking Hacks That Can Make Your Life Way Healthier You need to make the right choices to keep yourself healthy. The right method of cooking and avoiding common cooking mistakes can play a huge role in bringing you towards a healthy lifestyle. Here are a few tips to cook in a healthy way: Use fresh ingredients It is advisable to use local produce in your cooking because that has fewer preservatives than packaged foods. Add herbs and spices Most people believe that adding more oil to the food adds to the flavour which is absolutely not true. It is the herbs and spices which add taste and flavour to the food. Use less salt It is just not sugar intake that you need to control but salt as well. Salt can make you prone to several health issues including high blood pressure. According to the latest WHO survey, Indians eat a lot of salt and the daily intake for an adult should be just a teaspoon. Avoid using too much salt when you cook! Sautéing It is the best method to cook food in minimum oil. All you need to do is constantly keep stir-frying and tossing vegetables on high flame in a tablespoon of oil. Grilling For this you don’t even need to use oil for cooking. In fact, it is the healthiest way to cook. This way also helps in retaining the nutrients of the food. Steaming This is another method where you do not need oil to cook food and is a healthy way to retain your food’s nutrients. You can use spices and herbs or garnish food you eat. If you want you can use spices or herbs while steaming the food as well to infuse the flavours. Pressure cooking For this sort of cooking, you need a pressure cooker which uses steam inside the locked vessel to cook food. It is a very healthy way of cooking and also saves a lot of time. Make sure to drop these cooking mistakes Say NO to reusing oil We tend to use the same oil to fry foods again and again to save oil. This is an unhealthy practice and can even increase the trans fat content in the oil, which can be carcinogenic as well.

You need to make the right choices to keep yourself healthy. The right method of cooking and avoiding common cooking mistakes can play a huge role in bringing you towards a healthy lifestyle. Here are a few tips to cook in a healthy way:

learn.compactappliance.com

Use fresh ingredients

It is advisable to use local produce in your cooking because that has fewer preservatives than packaged foods.

Add herbs and spices

Most people believe that adding more oil to the food adds to the flavour which is absolutely not true. It is the herbs and spices which add taste and flavour to the food.

/www.health.harvard.edu

Use less salt

It is just not sugar intake that you need to control but salt as well. Salt can make you prone to several health issues including high blood pressure. According to the latest WHO survey, Indians eat a lot of salt and the daily intake for an adult should be just a teaspoon. Avoid using too much salt when you cook!

Sautéing

It is the best method to cook food in minimum oil. All you need to do is constantly keep stir-frying and tossing vegetables on high flame in a tablespoon of oil.

Grilling

For this you don’t even need to use oil for cooking. In fact, it is the healthiest way to cook. This way also helps in retaining the nutrients of the food.

Steaming

This is another method where you do not need oil to cook food and is a healthy way to retain your food’s nutrients. You can use spices and herbs or garnish food you eat. If you want you can use spices or herbs while steaming the food as well to infuse the flavours.



Pressure cooking

For this sort of cooking, you need a pressure cooker which uses steam inside the locked vessel to cook food. It is a very healthy way of cooking and also saves a lot of time.

Make sure to drop these cooking mistakes

media.salon.com

Say NO to reusing oil

We tend to use the same oil to fry foods again and again to save oil. This is an unhealthy practice and can even increase the trans fat content in the oil, which can be carcinogenic as well.

lifebuzz.com

Cut, raw vegetables right before you cook

To save time if you chop veggies much in advance then it can be a bad idea because you lose out on several vitamins and minerals. It is advisable to chop them before you start cooking.

Reheating is not a good idea

In this age where we have no time at all, we often have leftovers which we consume over a few days. But according to recent studies, reheating food can take away all the nutrients.