Footballer scores world's sneakiest penalty in truly stylish fashion
Footballer scores world's sneakiest penalty in truly stylish fashion
LONDON — Penalty trick shots are not for the faint hearted. If you can pull it off, you'll look like a total badass. If you miss, you'll be the laughing stock of the football pitch. SEE ALSO: Seagull chooses the exact wrong moment to invade football match During a charity match between Swansea City's All Stars and Briton Ferry Llansawel's over 35s, former professional footballer Lee Trundle did not miss. Here he is taking what may be the world's sneakiest penalty. @LeeTrundle10 that was naughty mate 😍 pic.twitter.com/OnG4G6AeX1 — Jordan (@JordanWebber96) December 4, 2016 They don't come much cheekier than that, do they? The match took place on the weekend, and the clip has been shared on Twitter thousands of times. Here it is from a different angle, where you can see exactly how fed up the keeper looks. Great evening down Old Road for the charity game tonight, hats off to @bflafc and @LeeTrundle10  pic.twitter.com/Bf0HBFLya6 — Jonathan Rees (@JonnyReesx) December 4, 2016 To make things even better, Trundle finished that match with a double hat-trick. Simply glorious. BONUS: Soccer fans throw hundreds of stuffed animals to sick kids sitting below

LONDON — Penalty trick shots are not for the faint hearted.

If you can pull it off, you'll look like a total badass. If you miss, you'll be the laughing stock of the football pitch.

SEE ALSO: Seagull chooses the exact wrong moment to invade football match

During a charity match between Swansea City's All Stars and Briton Ferry Llansawel's over 35s, former professional footballer Lee Trundle did not miss.

Here he is taking what may be the world's sneakiest penalty.

They don't come much cheekier than that, do they?

The match took place on the weekend, and the clip has been shared on Twitter thousands of times.

Here it is from a different angle, where you can see exactly how fed up the keeper looks.

Great evening down Old Road for the charity game tonight, hats off to @bflafc and @LeeTrundle10 pic.twitter.com/Bf0HBFLya6 — Jonathan Rees (@JonnyReesx) December 4, 2016

To make things even better, Trundle finished that match with a double hat-trick.

Simply glorious.