Here's What Trump's FCC Might Look Like
Here's What Trump's FCC Might Look Like
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Hal Singer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President-elect Donald Trump has offered few clues on his tech agenda. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) Aside from a few populist nuggets in a fiery Gettysburg speech, President-elect Trump didn’t give tech-policy junkies much to go on during his campaign. At this point, we're desperate for clues. Twelve days after the election, Trump satisfied our craving by asking “Equal time for us?” in a tweet critiquing a Saturday Night Live sketch. This presidential act caused some to question whether the Fairness Doctrine , which required broadcasters like NBC to present controversial issues in a balanced manner from 1949 to its merciful end in 1987, might be resuscitated under a Trump FCC. Fortunately, we no longer have to make predictions about where the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is headed based on Trump's campaign promises or tweets. The President-elect has tapped two economists to manage the FCC transition process: Jeff Eisenach and Mark Jamison . Both scholars are affiliated with the conservative American Enterprise Institute, and both have expressed a desire to pare back the scope of the FCC , shifting many of its current duties to the Federal Trade Commission . So what does that mean for specific FCC policies? Obama-era FCC proposals designed to steer business to constituencies aligned with Democrats—such as set-top-box unbundling (for Google) and rate regulation for business broadband (for Level 3)—likely will be relegated to the regulatory dustbin. Other policies such as net neutrality, universal broadband, and media-ownership rules are in play. Here’s a preview of how Trump’s FCC might tackle these issues based on the writings of Eisenach and Jamison. Trump famously tweeted in November 2014 that net neutrality was a “top down power grab” that “will target conservative media.” (Ironically, he likened net neutrality to the Fairness Doctrine in the same tweet.) Eisenach once referred to net neutrality as “ crony capitalism ,” suggesting that he is not entirely sympathetic to the cause.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Forget About Air Force One: This Is The Plane That Will Give President Trump The Most Trouble

Aside from a few populist nuggets in a fiery Gettysburg speech, President-elect Trump didn’t give tech-policy junkies much to go on during his campaign. At this point, we're desperate for clues.

Twelve days after the election, Trump satisfied our craving by asking “Equal time for us?” in a tweet critiquing a Saturday Night Live sketch. This presidential act caused some to question whether the Fairness Doctrine, which required broadcasters like NBC to present controversial issues in a balanced manner from 1949 to its merciful end in 1987, might be resuscitated under a Trump FCC.

Fortunately, we no longer have to make predictions about where the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is headed based on Trump's campaign promises or tweets. The President-elect has tapped two economists to manage the FCC transition process: Jeff Eisenach and Mark Jamison. Both scholars are affiliated with the conservative American Enterprise Institute, and both have expressed a desire to pare back the scope of the FCC, shifting many of its current duties to the Federal Trade Commission.

So what does that mean for specific FCC policies?

Obama-era FCC proposals designed to steer business to constituencies aligned with Democrats—such as set-top-box unbundling (for Google) and rate regulation for business broadband (for Level 3)—likely will be relegated to the regulatory dustbin. Other policies such as net neutrality, universal broadband, and media-ownership rules are in play.

Here’s a preview of how Trump’s FCC might tackle these issues based on the writings of Eisenach and Jamison.

Net Neutrality

Trump famously tweeted in November 2014 that net neutrality was a “top down power grab” that “will target conservative media.” (Ironically, he likened net neutrality to the Fairness Doctrine in the same tweet.) Eisenach once referred to net neutrality as “crony capitalism,” suggesting that he is not entirely sympathetic to the cause.