Politicians avoid integration issues for fear of being seen as racist, Sajid Javid says
Politicians avoid integration issues for fear of being seen as racist, Sajid Javid says
British politicians have not previously considered the issue of integrating immigrants as they feared being “called a racist”, the Communities Secretary has claimed. Sajid Javid said many of the findings of a Government-commissioned review “ring true to me personally” – and that  many people who moved to the UK failed to “embrace the shared values that make Britain great”. He added Dame Louise Casey's report also shows more needs to be done by Muslim communities and some Muslim men about "how they treat Muslim women".   Integration review condemned for 'adding to racism and scapegoating' Replying to an urgent question in the House of Commons Mr Javid said: “Many of her findings ring true to me personally. “I've seen for myself the enormous contribution that immigrants and their families make to British life, all without giving up their unique cultural identities. “But I've also seen with my own eyes the other side of the equation. “For too long, too many people in this country have been living parallel lives - refusing to integrate and failing to embrace the shared values that make Britain great. “And for too long, too many politicians in this country have refused to deal with the problem. “They've ducked the issue for fear of being called a racist, failing the very people they're supposed to be helping and I will not allow this to continue. Read more Racism 'being covered up in schools' to protect Ofsted ratings The grim posters used to promote racist human zoos that time forgot 'Racist' school census that 'targets two-year-olds' to go ahead “We in public life have a moral responsibility to deal with this situation and Dame Louise's report is a crucial step in that process.” Mr Javid said he would study the report's findings and outline policies in response to it in the Spring. Despite Mr Javid's claim that politicians have avoided the issue, it has long been a fixture of British political discourse. In 2006 Tony Blair said immigrants had "a duty" to integrate and adopt British values. In 2007 Gordon Brown said migrants had to earn their citizenship. In 2011 David Cameron attacked immigrants who were "not really wanting or even willing to integrate". The report, published on Monday, claimed that communities across the UK were segregated. It recommended that immigrants improve their English langauge skills and be forced to swear and oath to British values. Brexit racism and the fightback               Brexit racism and the fightback       Floral tributes and a photograph of Arek Jozwik are seen on a bench at the shopping centre where he was killed, in Harlow, Essex   Getty         PA        These cards were found near a school in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, the day after the EU referendum   Twitter/@howgilb         Getty        Romford, Essex, June 25   @diamondgeezer        A worker at this Romanian food shop was asleep upstairs at the time of this arson attack in Norwich on July 8, but escaped unharmed.  Hundreds later participated in a ‘love bombing’ rally outside the shop to express their opposition to racism and their support of the shop owners.   JustGiving/Helen Linehan        This neo-Nazi sticker was spotted in Glasgow on June 26   Courtesy of Eoin Palmer        But after news emerged of neo-Nazi stickers appearing in Glasgow, some in the city struck back with slogans of their own.   Courtesy of Eoin Palmer         Getty        More signs began to appear in some parts of the UK, created by people who wanted to show their opposition to post-referendum racism   Courtesy of Bernadette Russell  Labour’s Theresa Pearce echoed Mr Javid’s comments: “For too long as a country we’ve ignored these complex issues for fear of being seen as racist or attacking cultural attitudes. “Sadly this approach has left a vacuum that has been exploited by those who exist to promote hatred.” She called for the Government to address the issues highlighted by the report in a “realistic and mature way” – and criticised cuts to English language funding. More about: Sajid Javid Immigration integration Comments

British politicians have not previously considered the issue of integrating immigrants as they feared being “called a racist”, the Communities Secretary has claimed.

Sajid Javid said many of the findings of a Government-commissioned review “ring true to me personally” – and that many people who moved to the UK failed to “embrace the shared values that make Britain great”.

He added Dame Louise Casey's report also shows more needs to be done by Muslim communities and some Muslim men about "how they treat Muslim women".

Replying to an urgent question in the House of Commons Mr Javid said: “Many of her findings ring true to me personally.

“I've seen for myself the enormous contribution that immigrants and their families make to British life, all without giving up their unique cultural identities.

“But I've also seen with my own eyes the other side of the equation.

“For too long, too many people in this country have been living parallel lives - refusing to integrate and failing to embrace the shared values that make Britain great.

“And for too long, too many politicians in this country have refused to deal with the problem.

“They've ducked the issue for fear of being called a racist, failing the very people they're supposed to be helping and I will not allow this to continue.

“We in public life have a moral responsibility to deal with this situation and Dame Louise's report is a crucial step in that process.”

Mr Javid said he would study the report's findings and outline policies in response to it in the Spring.

Despite Mr Javid's claim that politicians have avoided the issue, it has long been a fixture of British political discourse. In 2006 Tony Blair said immigrants had "a duty" to integrate and adopt British values. In 2007 Gordon Brown said migrants had to earn their citizenship. In 2011 David Cameron attacked immigrants who were "not really wanting or even willing to integrate".

The report, published on Monday, claimed that communities across the UK were segregated. It recommended that immigrants improve their English langauge skills and be forced to swear and oath to British values.

Brexit racism and the fightback







10 show all Brexit racism and the fightback

















1/10 Floral tributes and a photograph of Arek Jozwik are seen on a bench at the shopping centre where he was killed, in Harlow, Essex Getty

2/10 PA

3/10 These cards were found near a school in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, the day after the EU referendum Twitter/@howgilb

4/10 Getty

5/10 Romford, Essex, June 25 @diamondgeezer

6/10 A worker at this Romanian food shop was asleep upstairs at the time of this arson attack in Norwich on July 8, but escaped unharmed. Hundreds later participated in a ‘love bombing’ rally outside the shop to express their opposition to racism and their support of the shop owners. JustGiving/Helen Linehan

7/10 This neo-Nazi sticker was spotted in Glasgow on June 26 Courtesy of Eoin Palmer

8/10 But after news emerged of neo-Nazi stickers appearing in Glasgow, some in the city struck back with slogans of their own. Courtesy of Eoin Palmer

9/10 Getty

10/10 More signs began to appear in some parts of the UK, created by people who wanted to show their opposition to post-referendum racism Courtesy of Bernadette Russell

Labour’s Theresa Pearce echoed Mr Javid’s comments: “For too long as a country we’ve ignored these complex issues for fear of being seen as racist or attacking cultural attitudes.

“Sadly this approach has left a vacuum that has been exploited by those who exist to promote hatred.”

She called for the Government to address the issues highlighted by the report in a “realistic and mature way” – and criticised cuts to English language funding.