Baylor Bears hire Matt Rhule as football coach
Rhule leaves Temple to become Baylor coach
Rhule leaves Temple to become Baylor coach A viewer's guide to the most (and least) entertaining bowls Kiffin thanks Saban, sees 'great things' at FAU Ex-Buckeye Gibson signs JUCO letter of intent Sources: Temple to hire ex-Gators DC Collins Jackson wins AP award for college football POY Former ESPN 300 QB Henry leaving Florida St. Applewhite's Houston deal worth $7.5M over 5 yrs Inside the best weekend of Lamar Jackson's life Jarrett Stidham turns Auburn into a playoff contender for 2017 Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft 2016 True Freshman All-America team Lamar Jackson leads star-studded ESPN All-America team Has Lane Kiffin grown up? 1 Related Houston regent: Kiffin not safe hire for Cougars Why the unlikely marriage of Nick Saban and Lane Kiffin worked Here's to Mike MacIntyre, Lamar Jackson and 2016's best in show Incredible year of Lamar Jackson ends with Heisman 1 Related Lamar Jackson wins Heisman Trophy: Top stats to know The dream bowl games we'd really like to see Eight games that most impacted the CFP race Jalen Hurts has the talent and opportunity for 2017 Heisman run Watch Clemson's tribute video to Deshaun Watson Source: 2 Louisville LBs OK after shooting Banned USC LB Masina faces trial on rape charges Source: Browns eye DE Garrett as possible No. 1 South Florida hires former Texas coach Strong Army washes away years of frustration in 'surreal' celebration 1 Related Army-Navy generates big handle in Vegas The true story behind Army's 1990 mission to steal Navy's goat Why 'Catholics vs. Convicts' still resonates Baylor regents reject call for new 3rd-party review Mark Schlabach says that Mark Rhule is a good fit and a tremendous hire given the circumstances he is inheriting at the school. (2:16) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Senior college football writer Author of seven books on college football Graduate of the University of Georgia Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Temple coach Matt Rhule, who guided the Owls to back-to-back 10-win seasons and an American Athletic Conference championship, will be named Baylor 's new coach, the school announced Tuesday. Rhule got a seven-year deal at Baylor, sources told ESPN's Brett McMurphy. Rhule, 41, replaces former Bears coach Art Briles, who was fired in late May in wake of the school's sexual assault scandal. Rhule, a native of State College, Pennsylvania, has a 28-23 record in four seasons at Temple. "We could not be more excited," Baylor athletic director Mack Rhoades said in a statement. "... When we set out on our search for a new leader of our football program, we wanted a coach who shared our values, who had demonstrated success, who showed a true commitment to the overall student-athlete and who we believed could lead Baylor to a national championship. "We found all of that and more in Matt and I know he will be a perfect fit with the Baylor Family." Jim Grobe, who guided the Bears to a 6-6 record as acting coach this season, will step down after Baylor plays Boise State in the Motel 6 Cactus Bowl on Dec. 27. Rhule takes over a Baylor program that has been plagued by off-the-field problems for much of the past year. In late May, the Baylor Board of Regents -- after hearing the Pepper Hamilton findings on how the university handled sexual assault complaints -- fired Briles, sanctioned athletic director Ian McCaw and removed Ken Starr from his role as president. McCaw and Starr would later leave the university altogether. "I am truly honored and humbled to join the Baylor family," Rhule said in a statement . "Baylor is a tremendous institution with a history of football success and I know the passion that so many have for the Bears will help bring the community together to reach even greater heights. I am excited to get started." In Rhule's first season at Temple in 2013, after inheriting one of the worst programs in the FBS, the Owls went 2-10. Temple went 6-6 in his second season before breaking through with a 10-4 campaign last season. This season, Temple finished 10-3 and defeated No. 19 Navy 34-10 in Saturday's AAC championship game. The Owls will play Wake Forest in the Military Bowl Presented by Northrop Grumman on Dec. 27, and sources told ESPN that assistant head coach/tight ends coach Ed Foley will serve as the interim head coach. While much of Rhule's coaching experience happened in the Northeast, he seems a good choice to take over the football program at the world's largest Baptist university. His father, Dennis, attended the Nazarene Theological Seminary in Kansas City, Missouri, and was a longtime pastor at a church near Times Square in New York. Rhoades also considered Arkansas State's Blake Anderson, SMU's Chad Morris and California's Sonny Dykes before deciding to hire Rhule. On Monday, Baylor set up a Tuesday meeting with Oklahoma State's Mike Gundy, but that meeting between Gundy and Baylor officials was canceled Tuesday morning, a source said. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Mark Schlabach says that Mark Rhule is a good fit and a tremendous hire given the circumstances he is inheriting at the school. (2:16)

Temple coach Matt Rhule, who guided the Owls to back-to-back 10-win seasons and an American Athletic Conference championship, will be named Baylor's new coach, the school announced Tuesday.

Rhule got a seven-year deal at Baylor, sources told ESPN's Brett McMurphy.

Rhule, 41, replaces former Bears coach Art Briles, who was fired in late May in wake of the school's sexual assault scandal. Rhule, a native of State College, Pennsylvania, has a 28-23 record in four seasons at Temple.

"We could not be more excited," Baylor athletic director Mack Rhoades said in a statement. "... When we set out on our search for a new leader of our football program, we wanted a coach who shared our values, who had demonstrated success, who showed a true commitment to the overall student-athlete and who we believed could lead Baylor to a national championship.

Editor's Picks Why did Matt Rhule take the Baylor job? Matt Rhule faced the question every successful Group of 5 coach has to answer: If a Power 5 opportunity occurs, should you always jump at it? That debate, plus coaching carousel news and notes.

Lacking Texas ties, Matt Rhule faces added challenge, depleted roster at Baylor New Baylor coach Matt Rhule doesn't check every box the Bears were looking for, but has proved he can rebuild a struggling program at Temple. 1 Related

"We found all of that and more in Matt and I know he will be a perfect fit with the Baylor Family."

Jim Grobe, who guided the Bears to a 6-6 record as acting coach this season, will step down after Baylor plays Boise State in the Motel 6 Cactus Bowl on Dec. 27.

Rhule takes over a Baylor program that has been plagued by off-the-field problems for much of the past year. In late May, the Baylor Board of Regents -- after hearing the Pepper Hamilton findings on how the university handled sexual assault complaints -- fired Briles, sanctioned athletic director Ian McCaw and removed Ken Starr from his role as president. McCaw and Starr would later leave the university altogether.

"I am truly honored and humbled to join the Baylor family," Rhule said in a statement . "Baylor is a tremendous institution with a history of football success and I know the passion that so many have for the Bears will help bring the community together to reach even greater heights. I am excited to get started."

In Rhule's first season at Temple in 2013, after inheriting one of the worst programs in the FBS, the Owls went 2-10. Temple went 6-6 in his second season before breaking through with a 10-4 campaign last season.

This season, Temple finished 10-3 and defeated No. 19 Navy 34-10 in Saturday's AAC championship game. The Owls will play Wake Forest in the Military Bowl Presented by Northrop Grumman on Dec. 27, and sources told ESPN that assistant head coach/tight ends coach Ed Foley will serve as the interim head coach.

While much of Rhule's coaching experience happened in the Northeast, he seems a good choice to take over the football program at the world's largest Baptist university. His father, Dennis, attended the Nazarene Theological Seminary in Kansas City, Missouri, and was a longtime pastor at a church near Times Square in New York.

Rhoades also considered Arkansas State's Blake Anderson, SMU's Chad Morris and California's Sonny Dykes before deciding to hire Rhule.

On Monday, Baylor set up a Tuesday meeting with Oklahoma State's Mike Gundy, but that meeting between Gundy and Baylor officials was canceled Tuesday morning, a source said.