Dolly Parton Announces Dec. 13 Telethon for Tennessee Wildfire Victims
Dolly Parton Announces Dec. 13 Telethon for Tennessee Wildfire Victims
Dolly Parton Announces Dec. 13 Telethon for Tennessee Wildfire Victims  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Following the devastating wildfires in East Tennessee, Dolly Parton has announced that she will host a Dec. 13 telethon in Nashville to raise money for her My People Fund . The country icon set up the fund to provide $1,000 each month to families in Sevier County, Tennessee, which was devastated by the Great Smoky Mountain wildfires that recently raged though the area. “I know there are a lot of great events being planned to help the people of East Tennessee, however, I am planning a telethon to support the ‘My People Fund’ where 100% of the money will help those who lost their homes in the wildfire. I am planning on doing this on Dec. 13th in Nashville, Tennessee,” the singer said, according to .  Parton, whose Dollywood theme park was threatened by the fires in late November, added, “We want to provide a hand up to those families who have lost everything in the fires. I know it has been a trying time for my people and this assistance will help get them back on their feet.” For donations, visit dollywoodfoundation.org . A spokesperson for Parton could not be reached at press time for further information on the telethon's artist lineup and syndicates.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Following the devastating wildfires in East Tennessee, Dolly Parton has announced that she will host a Dec. 13 telethon in Nashville to raise money for her My People Fund. The country icon set up the fund to provide $1,000 each month to families in Sevier County, Tennessee, which was devastated by the Great Smoky Mountain wildfires that recently raged though the area.

“I know there are a lot of great events being planned to help the people of East Tennessee, however, I am planning a telethon to support the ‘My People Fund’ where 100% of the money will help those who lost their homes in the wildfire. I am planning on doing this on Dec. 13th in Nashville, Tennessee,” the singer said, according to Music Row.

Parton, whose Dollywood theme park was threatened by the fires in late November, added, “We want to provide a hand up to those families who have lost everything in the fires. I know it has been a trying time for my people and this assistance will help get them back on their feet.” For donations, visit dollywoodfoundation.org. A spokesperson for Parton could not be reached at press time for further information on the telethon's artist lineup and syndicates.