Texas police officer dies falling into massive sinkhole
Texas police officer dies falling into massive sinkhole
A police officer has died and two people injured after two cars fell into a massive sinkhole in Texas . Dora Linda Nishihara, 69, an off-duty Sheriff’s Deputy, died after her vehicle and another car plunged into the sinkhole in San Antonio, which was filled with around 12ft of water. A 60-year-old man was rescued from the second car by two bystanders and taken to a local hospital with minor injuries on Sunday, officials said.   Huge sinkhole appears on high street in China, injuring two The sinkhole appeared after a sewer line ruptured during heavy rain on Sunday, utility officials said. Pictures taken by the San Antonio fire department show the sinkhole is the width of the street. Ms Nishihara’s car was seen upside down and almost completely submerged in the sinkhole’s water. Fire services used a crane to retrieve Ms Nishihara’s car and her body was found inside the vehicle. The Bexar County Sheriff’s Office tweeted the statement: “We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole on Sunday. “Our thoughts and prayers are with her friends and family.” We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole Sunday. pic.twitter.com/fETVaqrrCJ Deputy Nishihara worked as a Reserve Deputy from August 2009 to October 2016, before becoming a part-time Deputy at the Bexar County courthouse, the statement read. Read more Japan's giant sinkhole starts sinking again after hasty repair South London sinkhole traps coach of tourists after water main bursts A massive sinkhole tore this road apart- Japan fixed it in 48 hours North Yorkshire sinkhole swallows up gardens as homes are evacuated The conditions of the sinkhole have caused a challenging recovery situation, San Antonio fire chief Charles Hood said on Monday. “Our rescue team members faced very dangerous conditions with an unstable sinkhole collapsing around them, and swift moving sewer water, he said in a statement. San Antonio Fire Department battalion chief told that the department had teamed up with city water system crews and the police department to salvage the vehicles. He added that the ground surrounding the sinkhole is unstable and if anyone fell inside they could be swept underground. More about: Texas Sinkhole Comments

A police officer has died and two people injured after two cars fell into a massive sinkhole in Texas.

Dora Linda Nishihara, 69, an off-duty Sheriff’s Deputy, died after her vehicle and another car plunged into the sinkhole in San Antonio, which was filled with around 12ft of water.

A 60-year-old man was rescued from the second car by two bystanders and taken to a local hospital with minor injuries on Sunday, officials said.

The sinkhole appeared after a sewer line ruptured during heavy rain on Sunday, utility officials said. Pictures taken by the San Antonio fire department show the sinkhole is the width of the street. Ms Nishihara’s car was seen upside down and almost completely submerged in the sinkhole’s water.

Fire services used a crane to retrieve Ms Nishihara’s car and her body was found inside the vehicle.

The Bexar County Sheriff’s Office tweeted the statement: “We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole on Sunday.

“Our thoughts and prayers are with her friends and family.”

We are heartbroken to confirm Deputy Dora Linda (Solis) Nishihara passed away after her car fell into a sinkhole Sunday. pic.twitter.com/fETVaqrrCJ — Bexar County Sheriff (@BexarCoSheriff) December 5, 2016

Deputy Nishihara worked as a Reserve Deputy from August 2009 to October 2016, before becoming a part-time Deputy at the Bexar County courthouse, the statement read.

The conditions of the sinkhole have caused a challenging recovery situation, San Antonio fire chief Charles Hood said on Monday. “Our rescue team members faced very dangerous conditions with an unstable sinkhole collapsing around them, and swift moving sewer water, he said in a statement.

San Antonio Fire Department battalion chief told mySA.com that the department had teamed up with city water system crews and the police department to salvage the vehicles. He added that the ground surrounding the sinkhole is unstable and if anyone fell inside they could be swept underground.