How to have a good office Christmas party (without regretting everything the next day)
How to have a good office Christmas party (without regretting everything the next day)
ave you been watching Planet Earth II on BBC One? It’s another groundbreaker from the legendary documentarian David Attenborough, doing all the things he does best – ie. standing next to swamps prodding them with sticks, quickly shaking bushes to unleash unusual insects, crouching in front of bonking hippos. (OK, he has a team that does it for him these days – and at 90 years old, who can blame him?) And yet, despite his decades of fine insight and microscopically detailed excavation, there is one particularly unpalatable stretch of Planet Earth that he has somehow eluded Attenborough’s whispered narration. Namely, the human workplace during the whole of December. Widely considered to be a time for giving, a time for receiving, it’s also a time for beige and putty-coloured offices to somehow become even more depressing with the appliance of tinsel. A time for tongue-in-cheek morons to celebrate the bogus non-tradition of wearing Christmas jumpers as a display of plumage, and most disturbingly, it’s a time for the unavoidable “office Christmas party” – a full day of damage limitation and bizarre human behaviour that looms large on the calendar. There, you drown in a sea of banter, you watch your colleagues performing mating rituals to Lady Gaga disco mixes, you see management types beating their chests like primates, and grown-ups snog each other like it’s happy hour in the monkey enclosure. Yes, Christmas for the human “employee” can be an endurance challenge up there with the Daley Thompson’s Decathlon on the ZX Spectrum or Homer’s Odyssey (just reading it), and in amongst it all, lurking near the back like a cayman crocodile, is me, performing my annual balancing act of “not drawing attention to myself”. Attenborough and his goons would have an absolute field day, so to aid you in your mission to make it through this most treacherous of festive journeys with your reputation intact, just follow these strict guidelines for having a good time – but not too much of a good time. Remember, this is your JOB, you need to keep hold of it. Resist the urge to start networking now which rung of the ladder you’re on and stick to your kind – there’s a time and a place for discussing your role in the company with the big cheeses, and three bottles of wine down with a bit of sprout between your teeth isn't it. Abide by a strict curfew This one’s an exact science – you don’t want to be the boring colleague who went home first, but far worse is to be the lone ranger at the end going around pleading “where to now guys?” like you’re secretly homeless. Basically, wait until everyone’s thoroughly sloshed and at least five other people have left, then just stroll off into the night without so much as a handshake. Don’t overdo it if it’s fancy dress Nothing is more depressing than seeing someone dressed as The Little Mermaid self-consciously shuffling around by themselves, or looking on while a very convincing Batman throws up in a bin. It’s almost as if fancy dress was solely designed to compound your feelings of dissatisfaction, hence only minimal effort is required here. Get some of those glasses with a fake nose and moustache, that should just about do it, and best of all, you won’t get mercilessly ridiculed on the night bus by some kids. Don’t drink the shots he moment you arrive at your destination marks the start of a countdown to someone saying “shots?”, to which the correct answer is always “no absolutely not, thanks”. Unfortunately, in these kinds of cretinous situations, saying no to shots can draw unnecessary attention and paint a very grey picture of you, so the trick is to heartily agree like it’s the best idea of all time, then basically not drink them. REMEMBER – the vast majority of heinous work party crimes can all be traced back to Sambuca. Keep all of your clothes on at all times (and in the correct configuration) Nakedness is obviously a massive no-no, but even down at the other end of the spectrum you’ll find an array of frequent crimes that must be outlawed. Chiefly, wearing a tie around your head and pretending to be Rambo. Please don’t. Don’t take the opportunity to air your grievances his is the office Christmas do, it’s not the universe providing you with a serendipitous moment when you can finally unburden yourself of your woes, the universe doesn’t do things like that – and even if it did, it probably wouldn’t be at 11.13pm on a Tuesday with you basically crying in a pub toilet while everyone else fights the urge to start laughing. Like all negative feelings, you should keep these to yourself, and let them gently gnaw away at your soul forever. Only dance if you really have to For god’s sake don’t let the most vivid memory of the night become your unfitting tribute to John Travolta, where you fell over during an elaborate spin taking three people down with you. If you must dance, keep it simple and generic, no fancy moves. Don’t snog anyone You already have “loud standing up phone calls” and “casually walking around with a laptop” on your CV, there’s really no need to have “snogging co-workers” on there too. And yet, every year at every single office Christmas party, an unlikely pair will spring from nowhere – both probably married to other people – to brazenly French kiss each other in full view of absolutely everyone. This will always happen, but should never ever be you.

Have you been watching Planet Earth II on BBC One? It’s another groundbreaker from the legendary documentarian David Attenborough, doing all the things he does best – ie. standing next to swamps prodding them with sticks, quickly shaking bushes to unleash unusual insects, crouching in front of bonking hippos. (OK, he has a team that does it for him these days – and at 90 years old, who can blame him?)

And yet, despite his decades of fine insight and microscopically detailed excavation, there is one particularly unpalatable stretch of Planet Earth that he has somehow eluded Attenborough’s whispered narration. Namely, the human workplace during the whole of December.

Widely considered to be a time for giving, a time for receiving, it’s also a time for beige and putty-coloured offices to somehow become even more depressing with the appliance of tinsel. A time for tongue-in-cheek morons to celebrate the bogus non-tradition of wearing Christmas jumpers as a display of plumage, and most disturbingly, it’s a time for the unavoidable “office Christmas party” – a full day of damage limitation and bizarre human behaviour that looms large on the calendar.

There, you drown in a sea of banter, you watch your colleagues performing mating rituals to Lady Gaga disco mixes, you see management types beating their chests like primates, and grown-ups snog each other like it’s happy hour in the monkey enclosure. Yes, Christmas for the human “employee” can be an endurance challenge up there with the Daley Thompson’s Decathlon on the ZX Spectrum or Homer’s Odyssey (just reading it), and in amongst it all, lurking near the back like a cayman crocodile, is me, performing my annual balancing act of “not drawing attention to myself”.

Attenborough and his goons would have an absolute field day, so to aid you in your mission to make it through this most treacherous of festive journeys with your reputation intact, just follow these strict guidelines for having a good time – but not too much of a good time. Remember, this is your JOB, you need to keep hold of it.