London's newest chicken takeaway is 100 per cent vegan
London's newest chicken takeaway is 100 per cent vegan
ondon has more than its fair share of chicken shops - but its never had one like this before. Fast food specialists Temple of Seitan will be opening up a permanent residence in Hackney early next year - which claims will be 'London's (and maybe the world's) first 100 per cent vegan chicken shop". Now, you may well be wondering how a chicken shop can claim to be vegan. The clue lies in the company name - the restaurant will be offering seitan in lieu of poultry. A photo posted by Temple of Seitan (@templeofseitan) on f you've never heard of seitan before, Temple of Seitan's Rebecca McGuinness gave this concise explanation to Homemade : "Seitan is a meat alternative made from wheat protein powder. It can be made with gluten flour, water and seasonings that best emulate the flavours of the meat you are trying to replicate. We make all of our own seitan from scratch." Explaning the thinking behind their forthcoming 'chicken' shop, she added: "We started making fried chicken as we saw there was a gap in the market, and because it was one of our favourite foods before we were vegan! A photo posted by Temple of Seitan (@templeofseitan) on "A lot of people say they would go vegan or vegetarian but they would miss this or that, but most people say they would miss chicken. "There are so many chicken shops in London so we felt that if there was a vegan alternative, it may persuade people to give it a go, and if they liked it maybe they would change their minds about what they perceive vegan food to be." A photo posted by Temple of Seitan (@templeofseitan) on emple of Seitan already has plenty of fans, thanks to its appearance at food fairs and vegan events. Blogger Fat Gay Vegan says he's "obsessed" with the brand's "crispy savoury perfection," adding: "Their range of deep fried seitan snacks, tubs of mac n cheese and filled sandwiches is in the top five things to eat on the planet. "There is world class and then a little higher up in the clouds, there is Temple of Seitan." A photo posted by Temple of Seitan (@templeofseitan) on igh praise indeed. Londoners can judge for themselves when the takeaway opens in Hackney next month.

London has more than its fair share of chicken shops - but its never had one like this before.

Fast food specialists Temple of Seitan will be opening up a permanent residence in Hackney early next year - which claims will be 'London's (and maybe the world's) first 100 per cent vegan chicken shop".

Now, you may well be wondering how a chicken shop can claim to be vegan. The clue lies in the company name - the restaurant will be offering seitan in lieu of poultry.