Here Are The 2017 Grammy Nominations
Here Are The 2017 Grammy Nominations
We are a couple months out from the 59th annual Grammy Awards , but the list of nominees is here. Artists nominated in the general field categories were first announced on Tuesday on , while the rest of this year's list was rolled out later on the official Grammy website. Of course, this year's awards mark the first time in the show's history that the Recording Academy has made streaming only recordings eligible for Grammy consideration . The announcement meant that Chance the Rapper 's incredible mixtape would be in the running for a nomination. "We'll celebrate the Grammys' recognition of grass-roots independent artists and this new way of releasing music by nominating me. We'll fucking go crazy for, like, two days straight," Chance previously told about how he would react to a nomination . Unfortunately for Frank Ocean's fans, the artist's independently released was not submitted by his team for consideration . Check out the full list of this year's Grammy nominees below and catch the ceremony when it goes down Feb. 12 at L.A.'s Staples Center with host James Corden on CBS. Adele - "Hello" Beyoncé - "Formation" Lukas Graham - "7 Years" Rihanna - "Work" Twenty One Pilots - "Stressed Out" Beyoncé - "Formation" Adele - "Hello" Mike Posner - "I Took a Pill in Ibiza" Justin Bieber - "Love Yourself" Lukas Graham - "7 Years" Chance the Rapper The Chainsmokers Anderson .Paak ​Maren Morris Kelsea Ballerini Beyoncé - Justin Bieber - Drake - Adele Sturgill Simpson - Chance the Rapper - "No Problem" Desiigner - "Panda" Drake f/ The Throne - "Pop Style" Fat Joe & Remy Ma f/ French Montana & Infared - "All the Way Up" ScHoolboy Q f/ Kanye West - "That Part" Beyoncé f/ Kendrick Lamar - "Freedom" Drake - "Hotline Bling" D.R.A.M. f/ Lil Yachty - "Broccoli" Kanye West f/ Chance the Rapper, Kelly Price, Kirk Franklin, The Dream - "Ultralight Beam" Kanye West f/ Rihanna - "Famous" Fat Joe & Remy Ma f/ French Montana & Infared - "All the Way Up" Kanye West - "Famous" Drake - "Hotline Bling" Chance the Rapper - "No Problem" Kanye West - "Ultralight Beam" Chance the Rapper - De La Soul - DJ Khaled - Drake - ScHoolboy Q - Kanye West - BJ the Chicago Kid - "Turnin Me Up" Ro James - "Permission" Musiq Soulchild - "I Do" Rihanna - "Needed Me" Solange - "Cranes in the Sky" PartyNextDoor f/ Drake - "Come See Me" Bryson Tiller - "Exchange" Rihanna - "Kiss It Better" Maxwell - "Lake by the Ocean" Tory Lanez - "Luv" Beyoncé - Gallant - KING - Anderson .Paak - Rihanna - BJ the Chicago Kid - Lalah Hathaway - Terrace Martin - Mint Condition - Mya - Adele - Justin Bieber - Ariana Grande - Demi Lovato - Sia - Peep the rest of this year's nominees, including those of the rock ( blink-182 ) and country (P!nk?) variety, by clicking right here.

We are a couple months out from the 59th annual Grammy Awards, but the list of nominees is here.

Artists nominated in the general field categories were first announced on Tuesday on CBS This Morning, while the rest of this year's list was rolled out later on the official Grammy website.

Of course, this year's awards mark the first time in the show's history that the Recording Academy has made streaming only recordings eligible for Grammy consideration. The announcement meant that Chance the Rapper's incredible Coloring Book mixtape would be in the running for a nomination. "We'll celebrate the Grammys' recognition of grass-roots independent artists and this new way of releasing music by nominating me. We'll fucking go crazy for, like, two days straight," Chance previously told Billboard about how he would react to a nomination. Unfortunately for Frank Ocean's fans, the artist's independently released Blonde was not submitted by his team for consideration.

Check out the full list of this year's Grammy nominees below and catch the ceremony when it goes down Feb. 12 at L.A.'s Staples Center with host James Corden on CBS.

Record of the Year

Adele - "Hello"

Beyoncé - "Formation"

Lukas Graham - "7 Years"

Rihanna - "Work"

Twenty One Pilots - "Stressed Out"

Song of the Year

Beyoncé - "Formation"

Adele - "Hello"

Mike Posner - "I Took a Pill in Ibiza"

Justin Bieber - "Love Yourself"

Lukas Graham - "7 Years"

Best New Artist

Chance the Rapper

The Chainsmokers

Anderson .Paak

​Maren Morris

Kelsea Ballerini

Album of the Year

Beyoncé - Lemonade

Justin Bieber - Purpose

Drake - Views

Adele - 25

Sturgill Simpson - A Sailor's Guide to Earth

Best Rap Performance

Chance the Rapper - "No Problem"

Desiigner - "Panda"

Drake f/ The Throne - "Pop Style"

Fat Joe & Remy Ma f/ French Montana & Infared - "All the Way Up"

ScHoolboy Q f/ Kanye West - "That Part"

Best Rap/Sung Performance

Beyoncé f/ Kendrick Lamar - "Freedom"

Drake - "Hotline Bling"

D.R.A.M. f/ Lil Yachty - "Broccoli"

Kanye West f/ Chance the Rapper, Kelly Price, Kirk Franklin, The Dream - "Ultralight Beam"

Kanye West f/ Rihanna - "Famous"

Best Rap Song

Fat Joe & Remy Ma f/ French Montana & Infared - "All the Way Up"

Kanye West - "Famous"

Drake - "Hotline Bling"

Chance the Rapper - "No Problem"

Kanye West - "Ultralight Beam"

Best Rap Album

Chance the Rapper - Coloring Book

De La Soul - And the Anonymous Nobody

DJ Khaled - Major Key

Drake - Views

ScHoolboy Q - Blank Face LP

Kanye West - The Life of Pablo

Best R&B Performance

BJ the Chicago Kid - "Turnin Me Up"

Ro James - "Permission"

Musiq Soulchild - "I Do"

Rihanna - "Needed Me"

Solange - "Cranes in the Sky"

Best R&B Song

PartyNextDoor f/ Drake - "Come See Me"

Bryson Tiller - "Exchange"

Rihanna - "Kiss It Better"

Maxwell - "Lake by the Ocean"

Tory Lanez - "Luv"

Best Urban Contemporary Album

Beyoncé - Lemonade

Gallant - Ology

KING - We Are King

Anderson .Paak - Malibu

Rihanna - Anti

Best R&B Album

BJ the Chicago Kid - In My Mind

Lalah Hathaway - Lalah Hathaway Live

Terrace Martin - Velvet Portraits

Mint Condition - Healing Season

Mya - Smoove Jones

Best Pop Vocal Album

Adele - 25

Justin Bieber - Purpose

Ariana Grande - Dangerous Woman

Demi Lovato - Confident

Sia - This Is Acting

Peep the rest of this year's nominees, including those of the rock (blink-182) and country (P!nk?) variety, by clicking right here.