The 10 Easiest And Hardest Cities For Finding A Job Right Now
The 10 Easiest And Hardest Cities For Finding A Job Right Now
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As 2016 comes to a close, some people are thinking about their careers and the moves they’re planning to make in the coming year. Those looking to find a new job – and maybe contemplating uprooting themselves to do it – should do some research on which cities offer the best opportunities for work. To get a sense of which large cities give job seekers the best chance of finding employment, we looked to data from Indeed.com, a large job search platform that operates throughout the U.S. and internationally. The company provided us numbers on which cities in the U.S. have the most job openings per capita. We folded Indeed’s numbers into an easy-to-read slideshow of the top 10 easiest cities for finding a job, which you will find below. The 10 Easiest Cities For Finding A Job Right Now Indeed.com pulls this jobs-per-capita data at various points throughout the year so we looked at which cities made jumps over last quarter, as the most recent data we are using for our list emerged in October. Richmond, Virginia, comes in sixth place in this latest data set, having jumped up from ninth place last quarter. Nashville, which placed eighth by the latest numbers, had previously placed sixth, showing a small drop. The top three cities with the most open jobs per capita are static from last quarter. In third place we see Denver, Colorado, which shows 57 job openings per 1,000 residents in that metropolitan region. Shutterstock In second place we see Salt lake City, Utah, with 65 jobs per 1,000 people living there, and in first place is San Jose, California – in the heart of Silicon Valley – with 67 jobs. Good news for those cities, but the other side of the spectrum tells a story of slightly tighter job markets. Indeed.com researched the 50 most populous metropolitan regions in the country, and the bottom ten – cities with the lowest number of job openings per 1,000 residents – was also made available for our coverage. For a full ranking of those, we printed the list below. 41. New York City – 24 Jobs Per 1,000 Residents 42. Houston, TX – 24 43. Birmingham, AL – 24 44. Las Vegas, NV – 24 45. Buffalo, NY – 23 46. Riverside, CA – 23 47. Memphis, TN – 23 48. Providence, RI – 22 49. New Orleans, LA – 21 50. Miami, FL – 18    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As 2016 comes to a close, some people are thinking about their careers and the moves they’re planning to make in the coming year. Those looking to find a new job – and maybe contemplating uprooting themselves to do it – should do some research on which cities offer the best opportunities for work.

To get a sense of which large cities give job seekers the best chance of finding employment, we looked to data from Indeed.com, a large job search platform that operates throughout the U.S. and internationally. The company provided us numbers on which cities in the U.S. have the most job openings per capita.

We folded Indeed’s numbers into an easy-to-read slideshow of the top 10 easiest cities for finding a job, which you will find below.

Indeed.com pulls this jobs-per-capita data at various points throughout the year so we looked at which cities made jumps over last quarter, as the most recent data we are using for our list emerged in October.

Richmond, Virginia, comes in sixth place in this latest data set, having jumped up from ninth place last quarter. Nashville, which placed eighth by the latest numbers, had previously placed sixth, showing a small drop.

The top three cities with the most open jobs per capita are static from last quarter. In third place we see Denver, Colorado, which shows 57 job openings per 1,000 residents in that metropolitan region.

In second place we see Salt lake City, Utah, with 65 jobs per 1,000 people living there, and in first place is San Jose, California – in the heart of Silicon Valley – with 67 jobs.

Good news for those cities, but the other side of the spectrum tells a story of slightly tighter job markets.

Indeed.com researched the 50 most populous metropolitan regions in the country, and the bottom ten – cities with the lowest number of job openings per 1,000 residents – was also made available for our coverage. For a full ranking of those, we printed the list below.

41. New York City – 24 Jobs Per 1,000 Residents

42. Houston, TX – 24

43. Birmingham, AL – 24

44. Las Vegas, NV – 24

45. Buffalo, NY – 23

46. Riverside, CA – 23

47. Memphis, TN – 23

48. Providence, RI – 22

49. New Orleans, LA – 21

50. Miami, FL – 18