Vladimir Putin's underwater 'robot' can imitate submarines and carry out spying
Putin's 50ft underwater 'robot' that can imitate any sub in the world


600-mile range unmanned sub is to be used for 'mapping and

This is the first look at Vladimir Putin's 50ft underwater 'robot' that can imitate any submarine in the world and carry out 600-mile spying missions 1,800ft below the surface.

Russian military designers say their 'submarine imitator', called Surrogat, will be capable of travelling at speeds of up to 24 knots for hours on end.

Powered by lithium-ion battery, it will be able to imitate both conventional and nuclear-powered submarines thanks to its 'modular design' which allows it to 'change its functionality'.

On the drawing board: Vladimir Putin's 50ft underwater 'robot' will be able to imitate any submarine in the world and carry out 600-mile spying missions 1,800ft below the surface, experts claim

The design was unveiled as Russia continues to build up its forces on Europe's borders amid heightened tensions between president Vladimir Putin (pictured in a submarine last year) and the West

It comes as Russia continues to build up its forces on Europe's borders amid heightened tensions between president Vladimir Putin and the West.

It would be used to help Russian navy training but could also be used for 'mapping and reconnaissance' trips, according to Russia's Rubin Central Design Bureau for Marine Engineering.

State media agency TASS reported the bureau as saying the sub's 'ability to carry towed sonar arrays for various applications will help realistically reproduce an enemy submarine's physical fields - acoustic and electromagnetic.

'Today, combat submarines have to be involved for exercises or tests and this practice distracts them from carrying out their basic missions.

'The use of an unmanned imitator will help avoid this and cut the cost of drills. Besides, a submarine without a crew reduces risks while keeping simulated scenarios realistic,' Rubin CEO Igor Vilnit told TASS.

Powered by lithium-ion battery, it will be able to imitate both conventional and nuclear-powered submarines thanks to its 'modular design' which allows it to 'change its functionality'. The Royal Navy's submarine Vanguard, which carries trident missiles, is pictured

'This apparatus will be distinguished by its simplicity in operation and the low cost of its maintenance and upgrade.

'Now we're holding consultations with Navy representatives to make the imitator fully meet the Navy's requirements,' he said.

In training, the provides for up to 15-16 hours of naval exercises and is capable of 'reproducing an enemy submarine's manoeuvring, including at high speed, over this time', TASS reports.

The unmanned sub will have a displacement of about 40 tons, a cruising range of about 600 miles at a speed of 5 knots and a maximum speed of moire than 24 knots.

It is also being designed to withstand a maximum immersion depth of 600 meters.

While negotiations are taking place with the Russian Navy, the design bureau has not ruled out selling the submarines to foreign customers in the future.

The Kremlin under Vladimir Putin (pictured) is set to equip its tanks with advanced new reconnaissance drones, which will be able to circle up to 100 metres and stay in the air indefinitely

It comes days after it emerged that the Kremlin is set to equip its tanks with advanced new reconnaissance drones, which will be able to circle up to 100 metres and stay in the air indefinitely.

The devices, named 'Pterodactyls', increase Russian ground forces' capabilities at a time when it is building up troops on Europe's borders.

Russian Armata tanks will be equipped with the drones, which will be powered by a cable, and will increase the distance at which they can identify targets.

It comes at a time of heightened tensions between Russia and Ukraine, after the latter began two days of missile tests near Crimea.