Michael Flynn's son resigns from Trump transition team
Michael Flynn's son resigns from Trump transition team
Tweet     Stumble     Email  The son of Lt.-Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Donald Trump’s pick to be national security adviser , Michael G. Flynn, resigned from the Trump transition team Tuesday, CBS News’ Major Garrett reported. He offered his resignation when it became clear that he was becoming a significant distraction and his position helping his father was no longer tenable. Flynn the younger was given the distinct impression that his tweets on fake news had become problematic and the transition did not intend to expend the energy or political capital necessary to defend him. He did scheduling things for his father and other tasks, but senior transition ‎officials don’t know the extent of his work for his father. But he had quickly become a problem that was going to be solved immediately: he resigned before he was fired. Possibly seconds before, Garrett reported. The Trump transition team told reporters Tuesday only that Michael G. Flynn is not working with the transition. Michael G. Flynn could be seen attending at least a couple of meetings at Trump Tower with his father -- he’s shown standing behind his father in photos like this one: Retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn talks to media as he arrives at Trump Tower, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in New York. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) And in the first weeks after the election, when there were signs that the transition had stalled , the younger Flynn tweeted denials. Charlie, I've been here last 2 days.  Great atmosphere, great mood....media lying about transition.  Couldn't be going better! https://t.co/s3fY2DtEZf The younger Flynn, who has been his father’s chief of staff at Flynn Intel Group, has attracted attention because of tweets about #Pizzagate, a fabricated story accusing Hillary Clinton leading a child sex trafficking ring at Comet Pizza in Washington, D.C. His tweet came after a a man named Edgar Welch showed up over the weekend at the pizzeria armed with an assault-style rifle so that he could investigate the story for himself. Michael G. Flynn afterward tweeted that #Pizzagate would remain a story until it’s “proven to be false.” Until #Pizzagate proven to be false, it'll remain a story. The left seems to forget #PodestaEmails and the many "coincidences" tied to it. https://t.co/8HA9y30Yfp Flynn has also trafficked in other conspiracy theories and fake stories, including one that said former President Bill Clinton had raped a 13-year-old and another that accused Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, of being a gay cocaine user. @AnnCoulter HAVE YOU SEEN! Rubio's coke house, gayish dance troupe, and foam parties - Wayne Madsen Report https://t.co/lgSwhXUmek                Tweet     Stumble     Email

The son of Lt.-Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Donald Trump’s pick to be national security adviser, Michael G. Flynn, resigned from the Trump transition team Tuesday, CBS News’ Major Garrett reported.

He offered his resignation when it became clear that he was becoming a significant distraction and his position helping his father was no longer tenable.

Flynn the younger was given the distinct impression that his tweets on fake news had become problematic and the transition did not intend to expend the energy or political capital necessary to defend him.

He did scheduling things for his father and other tasks, but senior transition ‎officials don’t know the extent of his work for his father. But he had quickly become a problem that was going to be solved immediately: he resigned before he was fired. Possibly seconds before, Garrett reported.

The Trump transition team told reporters Tuesday only that Michael G. Flynn is not working with the transition.

Michael G. Flynn could be seen attending at least a couple of meetings at Trump Tower with his father -- he’s shown standing behind his father in photos like this one:

Carolyn Kaster, AP

And in the first weeks after the election, when there were signs that the transition had stalled, the younger Flynn tweeted denials.

Charlie, I've been here last 2 days. Great atmosphere, great mood....media lying about transition. Couldn't be going better! https://t.co/s3fY2DtEZf — Michael G Flynn🇺🇸 (@mflynnJR) November 17, 2016

The younger Flynn, who has been his father’s chief of staff at Flynn Intel Group, has attracted attention because of tweets about #Pizzagate, a fabricated story accusing Hillary Clinton leading a child sex trafficking ring at Comet Pizza in Washington, D.C. His tweet came after a a man named Edgar Welch showed up over the weekend at the pizzeria armed with an assault-style rifle so that he could investigate the story for himself.

Michael G. Flynn afterward tweeted that #Pizzagate would remain a story until it’s “proven to be false.”

Until #Pizzagate proven to be false, it'll remain a story. The left seems to forget #PodestaEmails and the many "coincidences" tied to it. https://t.co/8HA9y30Yfp — Michael G Flynn🇺🇸 (@mflynnJR) December 5, 2016

Flynn has also trafficked in other conspiracy theories and fake stories, including one that said former President Bill Clinton had raped a 13-year-old and another that accused Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, of being a gay cocaine user.