Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and YouTube create shared extremist database



Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and YouTube create shared extremist database

Posted

The world's four biggest tech firms are joining forces to try to stop extremist propaganda from being spread on their sites.

Key points: A new database will flag extremist content across different four major social media platforms

It works by automatically assigning content unique digital fingerprints called 'hashes'

A number of young Australians have been radicalised online by terrorist organisations

Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and YouTube will create a database that contains "digital fingerprints" of offensive images and video uploaded by extremist groups.

It will help other sites identify violent or extremist material before it is shared.

Dr Robyn Torok, from the Security Research Institute at Edith Cowan University, is an expert on the way extremist groups use the internet.

Research conducted by Dr Torok last year found that Islamic State recruiters were actively targeting and attempting to recruit Australian teenagers via social media.

She said the internet had become a deadly weapon used by jihadist groups to spread fear and attract recruits.

"We know that Islamic State or al-Nusra — the affiliate of al-Qaeda that it once was — use the internet in such a powerful way to recruit, to incite and to plan, and to future place young people into violent extremist acts."

She said the shared database was a big step forward in stopping dangerous groups from spreading their message via the internet.

"The platforms that they mostly use are Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter and YouTube, and it's those ones that are more prevalent that we have to really look at in addressing how can we reduce the incidence of extremist content being made available."

Internet companies have come under increasing pressure from Western governments to do more to remove extremist content following a wave of militant attacks.

The database aims to tackle that by helping to share 'hashes'.

Hashes are unique digital fingerprints that are automatically assigned to videos or photos. It means the content can be identified across different platforms.

Paul Rosenzweig, a former official at the US Department of Homeland Security, said the database should make it harder for terror groups.

"The use of hashes to identify for deletion of terrorist videos will mean the terrorist will have to find a different way of getting their propaganda out to the people they are trying to influence.

"Will it stop them? No. Will it make it more difficult? Absolutely."

'A form of disruption'

Until now, many internet companies have relied mainly on users to flag extremist content.

This flagged material is then individually reviewed by human editors who delete postings deemed to be offensive.

Twitter suspended 235,000 accounts between February and August this year and has expanded the teams reviewing reports of extremist content.

In Australia, a number of young people have been radicalised online by groups such as Islamic State.

Some have gone to the Middle East to fight, while others have been involved in planning attacks in Australia.

Dr Torok said a digital database was an important step in stopping that sort of activity.

"It's a form of disruption," she said.

"So these platforms know that certain content in these images relate to certain things and in doing that, disruption will help to reduce the incidents of recruitment and that violent extremism."

Eventually, the database will be made available to other firms keen to stop extremist content.

Topics: internet-technology, computers-and-technology, science-and-technology, internet-culture, information-and-communication, terrorism, unrest-conflict-and-war, australia