Can you pick the 2004 NBA All-Star Game starters?
Can you pick the 2004 NBA All-Star Game starters?
Can you pick the 2004 NBA All-Star Game starters? Vote: Which finalist will win this year's Heisman? Vote: How far will the Cowboys go in the playoffs? Vote: Most disappointing team in the NFL? Vote: Which team is the NBA's Monstars? Quiz: Do you remember these high-profile quarterback swaps? Vote: How far will the Clippers go? Vote: Which Texas Power 5 program suffered the worst defeat on Saturday? Vote: Which teams are in the best position to make the College Football Playoff? Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Milwaukee Bucks phenom Giannis Antetokounmpo is on pace to start in the All-Star Game this year, averaging 22 points, 8 rebounds, 5 assists and about three jaw-dropping plays a game. Not bad for a guy who turned 22 on Tuesday. It's a rare kind of singular talent the Bucks haven't seen much of in recent years. If the Greek Freak makes it to New Orleans this season, he'll become the first Milwaukee player since Michael Redd in 2004 to play in the All-Star Game. Which got us thinking ... who else played in the 2004 All-Star Game? Do you remember? By far, the best part of the 2004 All-Star Weekend was the sense of style. Chains, track suits, beanies -- anything baggy, basically -- ruled the weekend. That, combined with the NBA's portraits, which in retrospect look like high-school senior photos, resulted in a weekend you could put in a time capsule and see 25 years from now and think, "Yep, that was 2004." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Milwaukee Bucks phenom Giannis Antetokounmpo is on pace to start in the All-Star Game this year, averaging 22 points, 8 rebounds, 5 assists and about three jaw-dropping plays a game.

Editor's Picks Is the Greek Freak a hybrid of LeBron and Dirk? When Bucks coach Jason Kidd dreams of the future in Milwaukee, he envisions Giannis Antetokounmpo as a star for the ages. Not bad for a guy who turned 22 on Tuesday.

It's a rare kind of singular talent the Bucks haven't seen much of in recent years. If the Greek Freak makes it to New Orleans this season, he'll become the first Milwaukee player since Michael Redd in 2004 to play in the All-Star Game.

Which got us thinking ... who else played in the 2004 All-Star Game? Do you remember?

By far, the best part of the 2004 All-Star Weekend was the sense of style. Chains, track suits, beanies -- anything baggy, basically -- ruled the weekend. That, combined with the NBA's portraits, which in retrospect look like high-school senior photos, resulted in a weekend you could put in a time capsule and see 25 years from now and think, "Yep, that was 2004."

-- Matt Walks