Grammy Awards 2017: Stars React to Their Nominations
Grammy Awards 2017: Stars React to Their Nominations
Shares               Grammy nominations have been announced, and many singers are spending this morning celebrating. Singers have taken to social media to express their delight regarding their nominations, while others have congratulated their colleagues. "Oh my god. MOM IM GOING TO THE GRAMMYS," Best New Artist nominee Kelsea Ballerini tweeted. After receiving words of support from fellow Grammy nominee Kelly Clarkson , the singer responded, "Can't wait to sing all the Fa la la's with you in a few weeks!"       Meanwhile, Lukas Graham, whose song "7 Years" was nominated for three awards, including Record of the Year and Song of the Year, previously told ABC News that a nomination would be his "biggest dream." "Our biggest dream so far has been touring America; now we're in the middle of our second headlining tour here. So, yeah, a Grammy nomination would mean the world," he said. "But, I mean, hope for everything, expect nothing and then work harder than the rest of them, right?" For other stars' reactions, see below.  ?????? SO EXCITING!! Can't believe it?! So honored to be nominated with such a talented group of artists! #grammys2017  #piecebypiecelive  https://t.co/naqGiHggkO  "It’s 2am and I’m just coming down from a crazy great show overseas. ... I’m totally blown away with these nominations. Making 'Ripcord' was really a collaborative labor of love both for the music and all the people that helped me bring my vision to life. I’ll stay up anytime to hear news like this….just not sure of how to get to sleep now!” - Keith Urban  Oh my god. MOM IM GOING TO THE GRAMMYS. https://t.co/43U8em9Zwx   Oh my goodness, Thank youuuuu!!!! Can't wait to sing all the Fa la la's with you in a few weeks ??????? https://t.co/Xb1bBy0DIo   Four Grammy nominations?! I'M SHOOK. ?   We were in line at dunkin donuts and high fived everyone in the store   We don't even know what to say right now - thank you to everyone in the world. pic.twitter.com/pNvviymnLY   'We Are KING' is nominated for the 2017 GRAMMY for Best R&B Urban Contemporary Album! We are just blown away. Thx to everyone who listened!??  Shares                  Grammy Awards 2017: Stars React to Their Nominations   Meet the 30 New 'Bachelor' Contestants   Paula Patton Returns to Social Media After Two Years   'Spider-Man: Homecoming': First Teaser Clip Features New Suit   Lauren Graham on How She Got Together With Boyfriend Peter Krause   Lady Gaga Writes About Her 'Daily' Struggle With PTSD   Tom Ford: Beyonce Is Perfect Even When They Drop Their Kids at School   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Wears Necklace With Their Initials   Johnny Depp Is Forbes' Most Overpaid Actor, Again   Ben Mendelsohn on Playing 'Rogue One' Villain   Rachel Zoe on Dressing Melania Trump: 'I Don't Know'   5 Takeaways From Time's Person of the Year Interview With Trump   ANALYSIS: Finding the Loyalists in Trump's Administration   2 Juveniles Charged in Tennessee Wildfires That Killed 14   1 Officer Dead, 1 Injured After Shooting Near College in Georgia   4 More Infants Born in NYC With Zika-Related Birth Defects   Winter Storm Slams North Dakota   Pakistani Flight Crashes Into Mountain   Dancing Cop Boogies at Salvation Army Red Kettle   Twin Girls Joined at the Chest to Be Separated in 18-Hour Surgery Today   Bill Murray Sings 'Happy Birthday' to 94-Year-Old at Basketball Game   The Top Baby Names of 2016   Woman Defends $130 Wedding Ring Set: 'You're Not Marrying Someone for a Ring'   Construction Crew Surprises Friendly Neighbor With Packers Tickets   'You Belong': Man Offers Message of Support to Muslim Community   Biltmore Estate Takes Christmas Decor to Another Level

Grammy nominations have been announced, and many singers are spending this morning celebrating.

Singers have taken to social media to express their delight regarding their nominations, while others have congratulated their colleagues.

"Oh my god. MOM IM GOING TO THE GRAMMYS," Best New Artist nominee Kelsea Ballerini tweeted.

After receiving words of support from fellow Grammy nominee Kelly Clarkson, the singer responded, "Can't wait to sing all the Fa la la's with you in a few weeks!"

Meanwhile, Lukas Graham, whose song "7 Years" was nominated for three awards, including Record of the Year and Song of the Year, previously told ABC News that a nomination would be his "biggest dream."

"Our biggest dream so far has been touring America; now we're in the middle of our second headlining tour here. So, yeah, a Grammy nomination would mean the world," he said. "But, I mean, hope for everything, expect nothing and then work harder than the rest of them, right?"

For other stars' reactions, see below.

?????? SO EXCITING!! Can't believe it?! So honored to be nominated with such a talented group of artists! #grammys2017 #piecebypiecelive https://t.co/naqGiHggkO — Kelly Clarkson (@kelly_clarkson) December 6, 2016

"It’s 2am and I’m just coming down from a crazy great show overseas. ... I’m totally blown away with these nominations. Making 'Ripcord' was really a collaborative labor of love both for the music and all the people that helped me bring my vision to life. I’ll stay up anytime to hear news like this….just not sure of how to get to sleep now!” - Keith Urban

Oh my god. MOM IM GOING TO THE GRAMMYS. https://t.co/43U8em9Zwx — Kelsea Ballerini (@KelseaBallerini) December 6, 2016

Oh my goodness, Thank youuuuu!!!! Can't wait to sing all the Fa la la's with you in a few weeks ??????? https://t.co/Xb1bBy0DIo — Kelsea Ballerini (@KelseaBallerini) December 6, 2016

Four Grammy nominations?! I'M SHOOK. ? — MAREN MORRIS (@MarenMorris) December 6, 2016

We were in line at dunkin donuts and high fived everyone in the store — THE CHAINSMOKERS (@TheChainsmokers) December 6, 2016

We don't even know what to say right now - thank you to everyone in the world. pic.twitter.com/pNvviymnLY — Bob Moses (@Bobmosesmusic) December 6, 2016