Peter Vaughan, Maester Aemon On 'Game Of Thrones,' Dies At 93
Peter Vaughan, Maester Aemon On 'Game Of Thrones,' Dies At 93
And now his watch has ended. Peter Vaughan, best known for his role on “ Game of Thrones ,” died at age 93, The Huffington Post has confirmed. Vaughan’s agent Sally Long-Innes shared in a statement to Deadline that his death occurred Tuesday, around 5:30 a.m. “He died peacefully with his family around him,” Long-Innes wrote. Vaughan most recently played Maester Aemon ― the blind master of the Night’s Watch and one of the last known Targaryens ― on the first five seasons of the hit HBO series. Other notable roles include the fan-favorite Harry “Grouty” Grout on the BBC sitcom “Porridge” and Mr. Helpmann in the film “Brazil.” Vaughan was born in Shropshire, a county in England. He began his acting in theater before joining the military during World War II, serving in Normandy and Belgium. He returned to acting in the 1950s and, through his regular work in supporting roles, became a familiar face playing tough characters such as cops and secret agents, according to the BBC . Bryan Cogman, the “Game of Thrones” co-executive producer who wrote Vaughan’s final episode, posted a message about the actor on Twitter: Rest in Peace to our own Maester Aemon, Peter Vaughan, who passed away this morning at age 93. Truly an honor to have known him. Vaughan’s stint as Maester Aemon was by far his most popular role. “People talk about Grouty but, good heavens, the fan mail I get from all over the world because of ‘Game of Thrones’ is enormous,” Vaughan said in a June Sunday Post interview . “It’s been an absolute privilege to have worked on it for the past five years at my time of life because it’s absolutely first-class,” he added. Check out some Vaughan’s key “Game of Thrones” scenes in the video below: ALSO ON HUFFPOST: How To Pronounce The Names Of "Game Of Thrones" Characters       Share this slide:       MORE:

And now his watch has ended.

Peter Vaughan, best known for his role on “Game of Thrones,” died at age 93, The Huffington Post has confirmed. Vaughan’s agent Sally Long-Innes shared in a statement to Deadline that his death occurred Tuesday, around 5:30 a.m.

“He died peacefully with his family around him,” Long-Innes wrote.

Antony Jones via Getty Images Peter Vaughan out of costume.

Vaughan most recently played Maester Aemon ― the blind master of the Night’s Watch and one of the last known Targaryens ― on the first five seasons of the hit HBO series. Other notable roles include the fan-favorite Harry “Grouty” Grout on the BBC sitcom “Porridge” and Mr. Helpmann in the film “Brazil.”

Vaughan was born in Shropshire, a county in England. He began his acting in theater before joining the military during World War II, serving in Normandy and Belgium.

He returned to acting in the 1950s and, through his regular work in supporting roles, became a familiar face playing tough characters such as cops and secret agents, according to the BBC.

Bryan Cogman, the “Game of Thrones” co-executive producer who wrote Vaughan’s final episode, posted a message about the actor on Twitter:

Rest in Peace to our own Maester Aemon, Peter Vaughan, who passed away this morning at age 93. Truly an honor to have known him. — Bryan Cogman (@b_cogman) December 6, 2016

Vaughan’s stint as Maester Aemon was by far his most popular role.

“People talk about Grouty but, good heavens, the fan mail I get from all over the world because of ‘Game of Thrones’ is enormous,” Vaughan said in a June Sunday Post interview.

“It’s been an absolute privilege to have worked on it for the past five years at my time of life because it’s absolutely first-class,” he added.