Theresa May risks becoming an accidental Europe-wrecker | Rafael Behr

Contact author                                               fter Britain’s decision to leave the European Union , continental governments above all fear contagion. Once the precedent is set, voters in other countries could be infected with the same rebellious spirit. Anxiety about a great unravelling may be overblown. British Euroscepticism has unique cultural properties, and the messy aftermath of our referendum looks like a recommendation not to follow. Still, there is a desire in some quarters – in the European parliament, the commission and some capitals – to escalate the trauma of Brexit as a warning against imitation: . Other voices, in the Netherlands and Germany for example, are more conciliatory. Whether amity prevails depends on how the British side conducts itself. A starting point would be to avoid cheering, xenophobic nationalists in other countries as if they were franchises of the Brexit spirit. When Nigel Farage predicted ( wrongly) that Norbert Hofer, leader of Austria’s Freedom party, would win the presidential election last weekend , he was making a forecast of desire. He prematurely marked Austria down as the next point on a graph of ballot-box revolutions, following the Brexit-Trump trajectory. EU membership was not on the ballot in Austria. Nor was it an explicit question in Italy’s constitutional referendum the same day, although Eurosceptics and populists were prominent in the coalition that rejected Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s reforms and brought down his government. Public enthusiasm for the EU is shaky across the continent and Theresa May’s position is weakened every time a British politician appears to relish the decline of a system to which her negotiating counterparts are emotionally and strategically wedded. May tells European leaders she wants a strong EU because that would be in Britain’s interests. She prefers stability and continuity to turmoil and suspicion. Unfortunately, the radical impulse behind Brexit contains a different, more destructive logic. If political union enslaves the free spirit of the British people – as the Tory high priests of Euroscepticism believe – surely it is unkind to want other nations to continue suffering in captivity. The devout Brexiteer has a missionary duty, spreading the good news to benighted foreigners under the Brussels yoke. Some were more honest about this than others during the referendum campaign. Michael Gove made a speech in April celebrating contagion. “What will be catching is democracy,” he said. A vote to leave would be “exciting” because it might herald “the liberation of a continent”. To politicians overseas who felt their democracy could survive without the Govian sacrament, that sounded like a threat. Some British Eurosceptics believe the eurozone and perhaps the wider EU project are fated to collapse because the imperial ambitions of arrogant elites inevitably collide with national demands for self-determination. That prophecy will become ever more important as the cost of separation is felt in the pockets of less ideologically minded British voters. It is a short step for Brexiteers from predicting a calamity to craving one. The best argument for taking the financial pain of leaving the EU would be an almighty crisis on the continent, demonstrating the wisdom of Britain’s early dash for the exit. A thriving union would raise awkward questions about the UK’s self-exclusion. Farage understands this well, writing this week with glee about political volatility across the channel: “We may well have escaped from a building that is catching on fire.” Not all leavers are so glib. There are wreckers and reconcilers. The wreckers despise the EU and see the coming negotiations in adversarial terms – a demand for restitution of stolen sovereignty. The reconcilers dwell on what may be worth preserving in existing relations with the rest of Europe. Chancellor Philip Hammond is the government’s leading reconciler, and it seems he has an ally in David Davis. The Brexit secretary has signalled readiness to pay contributions to the EU budget in exchange for privileges within the single market. As foreign secretary, Boris Johnson has a professional duty to be a reconciler but seems unable to forgo his past as a producer of myth-mongering, banana-straightening Europhobic journalism. The international trade secretary, Liam Fox, is bored on the government bench, unable to sign post-EU trade treaties as long as reconciliation is in play. So vanity as much as ideology tilts him towards the wreckers. And May? She knows that wrecking talk costs goodwill in Brussels. She also fears accusations of diluting the purity of Brexit. So she embroiders emptiness with words. Her latest design: a meaningless promise of “ a red, white and blue Brexit ”. No 10’s impatience with impertinent questions is showing. The government has acquiesced to opposition demands that parliament see a Brexit plan while adding a caveat that the Commons must endorse May’s March 2017 deadline for triggering article 50. Earlier in the week a spokeswoman accused MPs of “frustrating the will of the people” and failing to “back the UK team” . Downing Street is creeping into that Ukip zone where any residue of interest in European integration is unpatriotic, verging on treasonous. This is silly because May knows there is a patriotic case for avoiding a ruinously abrupt collapse in EU trade. The conflation of Brexit and patriotism also feeds an image of Europe as a hostile power with which no compromise should be brooked. That lifts the bar for any deal beyond the reach of what is possible. The prime minister cannot play with this combative tone at home without being heard abroad. European leaders are as baffled by May’s position as anyone else and they, like the rest of us, take their cues from her occasional, encrypted messages. Meanwhile, the hardliners give the impression that Brexit contains aggressive intent towards the whole European project. That threat is already undermining Britain’s position. If May is in the business of reconciliation, she is running out of time to prove it. She may not be a wrecker by nature, but she could easily become one by accident. You can catch up on the discussion on this article and others on our Your Opinions thread Topics  EU referendum and Brexit   European Union   Foreign policy   Theresa May

After Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, continental governments above all fear contagion. Once the precedent is set, voters in other countries could be infected with the same rebellious spirit.

Anxiety about a great unravelling may be overblown. British Euroscepticism has unique cultural properties, and the messy aftermath of our referendum looks like a recommendation not to follow. Still, there is a desire in some quarters – in the European parliament, the commission and some capitals – to escalate the trauma of Brexit as a warning against imitation: pour encourager les autres.

May says she will reveal Brexit plan before triggering article 50 Read more

Other voices, in the Netherlands and Germany for example, are more conciliatory. Whether amity prevails depends on how the British side conducts itself. A starting point would be to avoid cheering, xenophobic nationalists in other countries as if they were franchises of the Brexit spirit. When Nigel Farage predicted (wrongly) that Norbert Hofer, leader of Austria’s Freedom party, would win the presidential election last weekend, he was making a forecast of desire. He prematurely marked Austria down as the next point on a graph of ballot-box revolutions, following the Brexit-Trump trajectory.

EU membership was not on the ballot in Austria. Nor was it an explicit question in Italy’s constitutional referendum the same day, although Eurosceptics and populists were prominent in the coalition that rejected Prime Minister Matteo Renzi’s reforms and brought down his government. Public enthusiasm for the EU is shaky across the continent and Theresa May’s position is weakened every time a British politician appears to relish the decline of a system to which her negotiating counterparts are emotionally and strategically wedded.

May tells European leaders she wants a strong EU because that would be in Britain’s interests. She prefers stability and continuity to turmoil and suspicion. Unfortunately, the radical impulse behind Brexit contains a different, more destructive logic. If political union enslaves the free spirit of the British people – as the Tory high priests of Euroscepticism believe – surely it is unkind to want other nations to continue suffering in captivity. The devout Brexiteer has a missionary duty, spreading the good news to benighted foreigners under the Brussels yoke.

Some were more honest about this than others during the referendum campaign. Michael Gove made a speech in April celebrating contagion. “What will be catching is democracy,” he said. A vote to leave would be “exciting” because it might herald “the liberation of a continent”. To politicians overseas who felt their democracy could survive without the Govian sacrament, that sounded like a threat.

In their ruthless flight from liberalism, Tories have left morality behind | Zoe Williams Read more

Some British Eurosceptics believe the eurozone and perhaps the wider EU project are fated to collapse because the imperial ambitions of arrogant elites inevitably collide with national demands for self-determination. That prophecy will become ever more important as the cost of separation is felt in the pockets of less ideologically minded British voters. It is a short step for Brexiteers from predicting a calamity to craving one. The best argument for taking the financial pain of leaving the EU would be an almighty crisis on the continent, demonstrating the wisdom of Britain’s early dash for the exit. A thriving union would raise awkward questions about the UK’s self-exclusion. Farage understands this well, writing this week with glee about political volatility across the channel: “We may well have escaped from a building that is catching on fire.”

Not all leavers are so glib. There are wreckers and reconcilers. The wreckers despise the EU and see the coming negotiations in adversarial terms – a demand for restitution of stolen sovereignty. The reconcilers dwell on what may be worth preserving in existing relations with the rest of Europe.

Chancellor Philip Hammond is the government’s leading reconciler, and it seems he has an ally in David Davis. The Brexit secretary has signalled readiness to pay contributions to the EU budget in exchange for privileges within the single market. As foreign secretary, Boris Johnson has a professional duty to be a reconciler but seems unable to forgo his past as a producer of myth-mongering, banana-straightening Europhobic journalism. The international trade secretary, Liam Fox, is bored on the government bench, unable to sign post-EU trade treaties as long as reconciliation is in play. So vanity as much as ideology tilts him towards the wreckers.

And May? She knows that wrecking talk costs goodwill in Brussels. She also fears accusations of diluting the purity of Brexit. So she embroiders emptiness with words. Her latest design: a meaningless promise of “a red, white and blue Brexit”. No 10’s impatience with impertinent questions is showing. The government has acquiesced to opposition demands that parliament see a Brexit plan while adding a caveat that the Commons must endorse May’s March 2017 deadline for triggering article 50.

Earlier in the week a spokeswoman accused MPs of “frustrating the will of the people” and failing to “back the UK team”. Downing Street is creeping into that Ukip zone where any residue of interest in European integration is unpatriotic, verging on treasonous. This is silly because May knows there is a patriotic case for avoiding a ruinously abrupt collapse in EU trade. The conflation of Brexit and patriotism also feeds an image of Europe as a hostile power with which no compromise should be brooked. That lifts the bar for any deal beyond the reach of what is possible.

The prime minister cannot play with this combative tone at home without being heard abroad. European leaders are as baffled by May’s position as anyone else and they, like the rest of us, take their cues from her occasional, encrypted messages. Meanwhile, the hardliners give the impression that Brexit contains aggressive intent towards the whole European project. That threat is already undermining Britain’s position. If May is in the business of reconciliation, she is running out of time to prove it. She may not be a wrecker by nature, but she could easily become one by accident.

• You can catch up on the discussion on this article and others on our Your Opinions thread