Burgers and burritos come together because goodness exists in the world
Burgers and burritos come together because goodness exists in the world
From sushi donuts to Swedish Fish Oreos to the mufgel , 2016 has been the year of food mashups. And now joining the ranks is the Burgrito , a burger and burrito mashup, with its own restaurant headed to Brooklyn. SEE ALSO: This ramen joint is an introverted foodie's paradise The Burgrito is a stomach-busting concoction stuffed with tomato, bacon, lettuce, American cheese, onion, chipotle sauce, fries and hamburger meat. They also have a vegan Burgrito option, the Veg-rito. Image: burgrito's spoke with Lawrence Laby, owner of Burgrito's, on why he is excited to expand the business from Long Island to Park Slope. "My brother Darin and I, who own and operate Burgrito's [on Long Island] together, have a connection to Brooklyn," he said. "We worked there for our family moving and trucking business for over 10 years each prior to acquiring Burgrito's almost two years ago. We like the energy and development in Brooklyn, both on the residential and commercial/retail side." "The combination of burger and burrito seems to work as we have had great support from the community in our Bethpage location," Laby told . "However, the main reason that people enjoy our food is that it's simple, fresh and prepared well and consistent." While the menu's starring item is of course the Burgrito, they also offer regular burgers, regular burritos, other Mexican food options, wraps, salads and vegan items. (But why would someone go there and not try the Burgrito?) If the burger and burrito combo sounds a little familiar, you might have heard of the Whopperito , Burger King's attempt at mashing up a cheeseburger with a burrito. While the Whopperito didn't seem to be the hit Burger King had in mind, the Yelp page for the Long Island Burgrito's is flooded with positive reviews. Burgrito's Park Slope will open in Jan. 2017. BONUS: This gadget converts a stick of butter into a spray can of fatty goodness...just in time for the holidays

From sushi donuts to Swedish Fish Oreos to the mufgel, 2016 has been the year of food mashups.

And now joining the ranks is the Burgrito, a burger and burrito mashup, with its own restaurant headed to Brooklyn.

SEE ALSO: This ramen joint is an introverted foodie's paradise

The Burgrito is a stomach-busting concoction stuffed with tomato, bacon, lettuce, American cheese, onion, chipotle sauce, fries and hamburger meat. They also have a vegan Burgrito option, the Veg-rito.

View photos

Image: burgrito's

Mashable spoke with Lawrence Laby, owner of Burgrito's, on why he is excited to expand the business from Long Island to Park Slope.

"My brother Darin and I, who own and operate Burgrito's [on Long Island] together, have a connection to Brooklyn," he said. "We worked there for our family moving and trucking business for over 10 years each prior to acquiring Burgrito's almost two years ago. We like the energy and development in Brooklyn, both on the residential and commercial/retail side."

"The combination of burger and burrito seems to work as we have had great support from the community in our Bethpage location," Laby told Mashable. "However, the main reason that people enjoy our food is that it's simple, fresh and prepared well and consistent."

While the menu's starring item is of course the Burgrito, they also offer regular burgers, regular burritos, other Mexican food options, wraps, salads and vegan items. (But why would someone go there and not try the Burgrito?)

If the burger and burrito combo sounds a little familiar, you might have heard of the Whopperito, Burger King's attempt at mashing up a cheeseburger with a burrito. While the Whopperito didn't seem to be the hit Burger King had in mind, the Yelp page for the Long Island Burgrito's is flooded with positive reviews.

Burgrito's Park Slope will open in Jan. 2017.

BONUS: This gadget converts a stick of butter into a spray can of fatty goodness...just in time for the holidays