A tragic end for Rashaan Salaam, Heisman Trophy winner and former college football star
A tragic end for Rashaan Salaam, Heisman Trophy winner and former college football star
In the early '90s, Rashaan Salaam was a college football superstar, combining grace and power to rumble for yard after yard after yard for the Colorado Buffaloes. On Monday night, Salaam was found dead at 42 years old in a park in Boulder, Colorado, less than two miles from the stadium where he became a legend. SEE ALSO: The 'tragic' rise and fall, and rise and fall, of Todd Marinovich takes its latest turn Salaam's body was found at Eben G. Fine Park. Police told the Associated Press that foul play is not suspected in the former running back's death. But Salaam's mother, Khalada, told that police suspect her son committed suicide. “They said they found a note and would share that with us when we get there,” she said. Former Heisman Trophy winner and Bears' first-round pick Rashaan Salaam died at age of 42, per family spokesman. Another gone way too soon. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) December 6, 2016 A guy that so many Colorado fans grew up cheering for... Awful news of the passing of #CUBuffs legend Rashaan Salaam. So sad... RIP — Kami Carmann (@KamiCarmann) December 6, 2016 Wow, just landed in DC and learned about Rashaan Salaam. Devastated. You never know. Just never know — Tyler Polumbus (@Tyler_Polumbus) December 6, 2016 Crazy: Rashaan Salaam is the first Heisman winner of last 55 years to die. Until today, every winner since Ernie Davis (1961) was alive. — Kevin Kaduk (@KevinKaduk) December 6, 2016 Just over 20 years ago, Salaam became a star in Boulder. He rushed for 2,055 yards and scored 24 touchdowns during his junior season in 1994, winning the Heisman Trophy that season. He then skipped his senior year to enter the 1995 NFL Draft, where he was picked in the first round by the Chicago Bears. But Salaam's pro career never matched his college stardom. Salaam dives over the goal line to score for Colorado against Michigan in 1994. Image:  Werner Slocum/AP By 1999, he was out of the NFL. That same year, he told ESPN that addiction to marijuana contributed to his fizzled pro career. In 2011, he sold his Heisman ring. "I had no discipline," Salaam told the in 2012. "I had all the talent in the world. You know, great body, great genes. But I had no work ethic and I had no discipline. The better you get, the harder you have to work. The better I got, the lazier I got." More recently, Salaam appeared to have found peace in his post-football life. He moved back to the Boulder area and began working with kids. "Coming back here and living here the past two years, what I realized is that my whole career I've been too hard on myself," he told the Boulder in 2014. "I did some great things. I made history. I would love to go back and change some things, but I can't. I'm hoping to use my story to go and influence kids." Two years after that interview, Salaam was found dead. Salaam's mother told that the family hopes to bury him in Boulder, where he rumbled to the 1994 Heisman Trophy. "He liked it there and was successful there, and he liked the people there," Salaam's mother told the paper. Meanwhile, the 2016 Heisman Trophy will be awarded Dec. 12.

In the early '90s, Rashaan Salaam was a college football superstar, combining grace and power to rumble for yard after yard after yard for the Colorado Buffaloes.

On Monday night, Salaam was found dead at 42 years old in a park in Boulder, Colorado, less than two miles from the stadium where he became a legend.

Salaam's body was found at Eben G. Fine Park. Police told the Associated Press that foul play is not suspected in the former running back's death. But Salaam's mother, Khalada, told USA Today that police suspect her son committed suicide.

“They said they found a note and would share that with us when we get there,” she said.

Former Heisman Trophy winner and Bears' first-round pick Rashaan Salaam died at age of 42, per family spokesman. Another gone way too soon. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) December 6, 2016

A guy that so many Colorado fans grew up cheering for... Awful news of the passing of #CUBuffs legend Rashaan Salaam. So sad... RIP — Kami Carmann (@KamiCarmann) December 6, 2016

Wow, just landed in DC and learned about Rashaan Salaam. Devastated. You never know. Just never know — Tyler Polumbus (@Tyler_Polumbus) December 6, 2016

Crazy: Rashaan Salaam is the first Heisman winner of last 55 years to die. Until today, every winner since Ernie Davis (1961) was alive. — Kevin Kaduk (@KevinKaduk) December 6, 2016

Just over 20 years ago, Salaam became a star in Boulder. He rushed for 2,055 yards and scored 24 touchdowns during his junior season in 1994, winning the Heisman Trophy that season. He then skipped his senior year to enter the 1995 NFL Draft, where he was picked in the first round by the Chicago Bears.

But Salaam's pro career never matched his college stardom.

Salaam dives over the goal line to score for Colorado against Michigan in 1994. Image: Werner Slocum/AP

By 1999, he was out of the NFL. That same year, he told ESPN that addiction to marijuana contributed to his fizzled pro career. In 2011, he sold his Heisman ring.

"I had no discipline," Salaam told the Chicago Tribune in 2012. "I had all the talent in the world. You know, great body, great genes. But I had no work ethic and I had no discipline. The better you get, the harder you have to work. The better I got, the lazier I got."

More recently, Salaam appeared to have found peace in his post-football life. He moved back to the Boulder area and began working with kids.

"Coming back here and living here the past two years, what I realized is that my whole career I've been too hard on myself," he told the Boulder Daily Camera in 2014. "I did some great things. I made history. I would love to go back and change some things, but I can't. I'm hoping to use my story to go and influence kids."

Two years after that interview, Salaam was found dead. Salaam's mother told USA Today that the family hopes to bury him in Boulder, where he rumbled to the 1994 Heisman Trophy.

"He liked it there and was successful there, and he liked the people there," Salaam's mother told the paper.

Meanwhile, the 2016 Heisman Trophy will be awarded Dec. 12.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.