Donald Trump announces abrupt change to US foreign policy
Donald Trump announces abrupt change to US foreign policy
Popular videos    Justin Trudeau cries as he is reunited with Syrian refugee      Joe Biden talks running in 2020: ‘I’ll be in better shape than Trump'      Boeing says Trump tweet that wiped $1bn off its value wasn’t true      Yemen is a war that the world forgot, senior UN official says   President-elect Donald Trump has vowed to stop the US “racing to topple foreign regimes”, in an indication that his administration will adopt a non-interventionist approach to conflicts overseas. Yet in the same appearance, on a victory tour of America following the presidential election result, he promised to boost military spending and laid out a foreign policy that would focus on destroying Isis. “We will stop racing to topple foreign regimes that we know nothing about, that we shouldn't be involved with,” Mr Trump told the crowd. Read more Did Donald Trump tank Boeing’s stock because he was mad about a news a Hate crimes in Michigan increase by 65 times after Trump election White House responds to Trump's Boeing Twitter tirade “Instead, our focus must be on defeating terrorism and destroying ISIS, and we will." The billionaire businessman made the statements while officially introducing his choice of defence secretary, General James Mattis, dubbed “Mad Dog Mattis”, to an audience near the Fort Bragg military base in Fayetteville. Instead of investing in wars, he said he wanted to spend money to improve America's infrastructure. Yet despite his apparent anti-interventionist approach, he reaffirmed plans to expand the military and boost its funding by calling on Congress to roll back caps on defence spending. Such promises have already boosted the value of arms manufacturing in companies around the world . “We don't want to have a depleted military because we’re all over the place fighting in areas that we shouldn't be fighting in. "It's not going to be depleted any longer,” he said, adding that the policy of “intervention and chaos” must come to an end. Mr Trump implored Congress to approve a waiver to let Mr Mattis, who retired as chief of the US Central Command in 2013, serve as defence secretary. Under current US law a military leader must have exited the armed forces at least seven years prior to taking up the position. The President-elect warned that if the waiver was not granted there would be “a lot of angry people”. President Trump protests               President Trump protests       Patrons hold a sign as people march by while protesting the election of Republican Donald Trump as the president of the United States in downtown Los Angeles, California   Reuters        Demonstrators rally following the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators march following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        Thousands of protesters rallied across the United States expressing shock and anger over Donald Trump's election, vowing to oppose divisive views they say helped the Republican billionaire win the presidency   AFP/Getty Images        Demonstrators protest outside the Chicago Theatre in Chicago, Illinois   Getty        A police officer aims a launcher after demonstrators threw projectiles toward a line of officers during a demonstration in Oakland, California   Reuters        An officer examines a vandalized police vehicle as demonstrators riot in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators take over the Hollywood 101 Freeway just north of Los Angeles City Hall in protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        A woman holds up a sign reading 'Trump you are an Idiot' as demonstrators gather during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump outside the City Hall building in Los Angeles, California   EPA        A masked demonstrator gestures toward a police line during a demonstration in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, near the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Las Vegas, Nevada   Reuters        Musician Lagy Gaga stages a protest against Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on a sanitation truck outside Trump Tower in New York City   Getty        A woman yells as she takes part in a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        A man dressed in red-white-and-blue sits on the curb during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        A protester sets off fireworks during a protest against President-elect Donald Trumpin Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        University of California, Davis students protest on campus in Davis, California, U.S. following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        An Oakland police officer checks out damage after a window was broken by protesters at a car dealership in downtown Oakland, Calif   AP        A protester faces a police line in downtown Oakland, Calif   AP        President-elect Donald Trumpís victory set off multiple protests   AP        A fire burns during protests in Oakland, Calif   AP  “Mad Dog Mattis” has often said Washington lacks a cohesive strategy in the Middle East, criticising the government for taking a piecemeal approach. “Is political Islam in the best interest of the United States?” Mr Mattis said at the Heritage Foundation in 2015, talking about the challenges presented by the separate issues of Isis and Iranian-sponsored terrorism. “I suggest the answer is no, but we need to have the discussion. If we won’t even ask the question, how do we even recognize which is our side in a fight?” Critics noted similarities between the President-elect's rhetoric in Fayetteville and that which he adopted towards the Iraq war while on the campaign trail. Mr Trump claimed to have expressed strong opposition to US involvement in the conflict before it began in 2003, a statement that has long been disputed . More about: Donald Trump General James Mattis American military Comments

President-elect Donald Trump has vowed to stop the US “racing to topple foreign regimes”, in an indication that his administration will adopt a non-interventionist approach to conflicts overseas.

Yet in the same appearance, on a victory tour of America following the presidential election result, he promised to boost military spending and laid out a foreign policy that would focus on destroying Isis.

“We will stop racing to topple foreign regimes that we know nothing about, that we shouldn't be involved with,” Mr Trump told the crowd.

“Instead, our focus must be on defeating terrorism and destroying ISIS, and we will."

The billionaire businessman made the statements while officially introducing his choice of defence secretary, General James Mattis, dubbed “Mad Dog Mattis”, to an audience near the Fort Bragg military base in Fayetteville.

Instead of investing in wars, he said he wanted to spend money to improve America's infrastructure.

Yet despite his apparent anti-interventionist approach, he reaffirmed plans to expand the military and boost its funding by calling on Congress to roll back caps on defence spending. Such promises have already boosted the value of arms manufacturing in companies around the world.

“We don't want to have a depleted military because we’re all over the place fighting in areas that we shouldn't be fighting in.

"It's not going to be depleted any longer,” he said, adding that the policy of “intervention and chaos” must come to an end.

Mr Trump implored Congress to approve a waiver to let Mr Mattis, who retired as chief of the US Central Command in 2013, serve as defence secretary. Under current US law a military leader must have exited the armed forces at least seven years prior to taking up the position.

The President-elect warned that if the waiver was not granted there would be “a lot of angry people”.

President Trump protests







20 show all President Trump protests





































1/20 Patrons hold a sign as people march by while protesting the election of Republican Donald Trump as the president of the United States in downtown Los Angeles, California Reuters

2/20 Demonstrators rally following the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, in Oakland, California Reuters

3/20 Demonstrators march following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

4/20 Thousands of protesters rallied across the United States expressing shock and anger over Donald Trump's election, vowing to oppose divisive views they say helped the Republican billionaire win the presidency AFP/Getty Images

5/20 Demonstrators protest outside the Chicago Theatre in Chicago, Illinois Getty

6/20 A police officer aims a launcher after demonstrators threw projectiles toward a line of officers during a demonstration in Oakland, California Reuters

7/20 An officer examines a vandalized police vehicle as demonstrators riot in Oakland, California Reuters

8/20 Demonstrators take over the Hollywood 101 Freeway just north of Los Angeles City Hall in protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

9/20 A woman holds up a sign reading 'Trump you are an Idiot' as demonstrators gather during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump outside the City Hall building in Los Angeles, California EPA

10/20 A masked demonstrator gestures toward a police line during a demonstration in Oakland, California Reuters

11/20 Demonstrators protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, near the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Las Vegas, Nevada Reuters

12/20 Musician Lagy Gaga stages a protest against Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on a sanitation truck outside Trump Tower in New York City Getty

13/20 A woman yells as she takes part in a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

14/20 A man dressed in red-white-and-blue sits on the curb during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

15/20 A protester sets off fireworks during a protest against President-elect Donald Trumpin Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

16/20 University of California, Davis students protest on campus in Davis, California, U.S. following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

17/20 An Oakland police officer checks out damage after a window was broken by protesters at a car dealership in downtown Oakland, Calif AP

18/20 A protester faces a police line in downtown Oakland, Calif AP

19/20 President-elect Donald Trumpís victory set off multiple protests AP

20/20 A fire burns during protests in Oakland, Calif AP

“Mad Dog Mattis” has often said Washington lacks a cohesive strategy in the Middle East, criticising the government for taking a piecemeal approach.

“Is political Islam in the best interest of the United States?” Mr Mattis said at the Heritage Foundation in 2015, talking about the challenges presented by the separate issues of Isis and Iranian-sponsored terrorism.

“I suggest the answer is no, but we need to have the discussion. If we won’t even ask the question, how do we even recognize which is our side in a fight?”

Critics noted similarities between the President-elect's rhetoric in Fayetteville and that which he adopted towards the Iraq war while on the campaign trail.

Mr Trump claimed to have expressed strong opposition to US involvement in the conflict before it began in 2003, a statement that has long been disputed.