You can FINALLY 'like' or disable comments on Instagram posts
You can FINALLY 'like' Instagram comments


Instagram will now enable users to turn off comments in order to banish trolls who leave offensive remarks.

Users will also be given the ability to remove followers from accounts that are private and not visible to the public.

The updates are the latest in a set of tools and controls that the photo-sharing app has been adding to make Instagram a safer and more enjoyable experience for everyone.

As well as the troll-busting features, the update will also add the ability to 'like' comments.

Scroll down for video

Instagram will now enable users to turn off comments in order to banish trolls who leave offensive remarks (left), and will also give users the ability to remove followers from their accounts, if they are private and not visible to the public (right)

The new tools will be rolled out to all users in the coming weeks.

'We’ll soon add a way to turn off comments on any post, said Instagram Co-Founder and CEO Kevin Systrom in a blog post.

'Sometimes there may be moments when you want to let your post stand on its own.

'Previously this was only available for a small number of accounts.

'In a few weeks, it will be available for everyone'.

All users need to do is tap 'Advanced Settings' before posting and select 'Turn Off Commenting'.

If users change their minds, commenting can be turned back on at any time after posting.

Along with the ability to disable comments, user will be able to remove followers from private accounts.

'In the past, once you approved a follower, there was no simple way to undo that decision without blocking them,' said Mr Systrom.

'Going forward, if your account is private, you can remove followers by going to your list of followers and tapping the … menu next to any person’s name.

'The person will not be notified that you removed them as a follower.

The updates are the latest in a set of tools and controls that the photo-sharing app has been adding to make Instagram a safer and more enjoyable experience for everyone

In the coming weeks, Instagram will also add the ability to like comments by tapping a heart icon next to any comment.

'These updates are a part of Instagram's ongoing commitment to keeping the platform safe and welcoming for everyone,' said a statement from the app Facebook-owned firm.

In September, Instagram introduced a keyword moderation tool that automatically stops people posting offensive comments under the user's snaps.

The clever feature enables users to customise the comments, effectively banning words that they consider offensive.

And in October, the firm made it easier to report concerning posts that may indicate that a person needs help.

As well as the troll-busting features, the update will also add the ability to 'like' comments. As with liking Instagram posts, a small heart icon is tapped to denote a like

The potentially life-saving update being rolled out from this week that enables users of the photo-sharing app to anonymously report friend's posts that mention any form of self-harm.

Last month, Instagram launched a Snapchat-style self-destructing photo and video service as part of its latest update.

The app also followed Facebook's lead by unveiling a live video broadcasting service of its own.