Tree surgeons scrambled to Blenheim Palace cedar made famous by Harry Potter
Tree surgeons scrambled to Blenheim Palace cedar made famous by Harry Potter
rboriculturalists are working their magic on a historic tree that featured in a Harry Potter film but is now in grave danger of collapsing. The famous cedar of Lebanon tree in the grounds of Winston Churchill 's birthplace Blenheim Palace needs emergency treatment to stop it from falling over. The specimen that has a distinctive, gaping hole in the middle of its huge hollow trunk appeared in the fifth Harry Potter film, The Order of the Phoenix. everus Snape, the curt Potions master played by Alan Rickman, endures a flashback to being bullied by Potter's father James and Sirius Black, who cast a spell that dangles him upside down from the top of the tree. The tree's appearance in the 2007 movie has made it a favourite with Harry Potter fans, who travel from all over the world to see at it. The trunk of the 55ft tall tree is 20ft in diameter but the large hole has made it so weak it could topple over tomorrow. he rescue plan now underway involves a team of tree surgeons using climbers and a cherry picker to fix cables to its larger upper branches and attach them to nearby trees. This will give the cedar added support and reduce the chances of it collapsing. Roy Cox, head of estates at Blenheim Palace, said: "Our forestry team are working with specialist heritage tree experts to stabilise the tree, give it the best chance for the future and importantly keep it open for our visitors. "Cedar of Lebanons of this age are a risk and if we do not take decisive action the tree will have to be permanently fenced off from our visitors and be lost for future generations. "The large hole which is it defining feature is also its weakness and like any of us it is getting old. "If we were to do nothing the tree could fall down tomorrow. It may still do that but at least we have done everything we can and if it does fail it will be controlled. "We engaged national experts in heritage tree conservation to secure the tree back to others nearby and reduce the weight of the upper crown. "As it is still alive it could live for many more decades – we just don't know. We could have ignored it and let it fall of its own accord but it's important we do everything we can for such impressive trees. It's as significant to Blenheim Palace as it is to Harry Potter fans." he cedar of Lebanon originates in Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, northwest Jordan, western Syria, and south central Turkey. It is unknown when the first cedar of Lebanon was planted in Britain, but it dates at least to 1664, and the Blenheim specimen would have been planted during Capability Brown 's creation of the house's copious parkland. In 2014 an ancient yew in Hertfordshire, which had starred as the 'Whomping Willow' in the grounds of Hogwarts, split in two and collapsed. This would make the Cedar of Lebanon the sole standard-bearer of major trees to have featured in the Harry Potter films.

Arboriculturalists are working their magic on a historic tree that featured in a Harry Potter film but is now in grave danger of collapsing.

The famous cedar of Lebanon tree in the grounds of Winston Churchill's birthplace Blenheim Palace needs emergency treatment to stop it from falling over.

The specimen that has a distinctive, gaping hole in the middle of its huge hollow trunk appeared in the fifth Harry Potter film, The Order of the Phoenix.