Demonetisation: Guard Fires Gun Shots In Air To Disperse Crowd At A Bank In Punjab
Demonetisation: Guard Fires Gun Shots In Air To Disperse Crowd At A Bank In Punjab
Demonetisation: Guard Fires Gun Shots In Air To Disperse Crowd At A Bank In Punjab It has been almost one month since the demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes on November 8, but queues outside banks and ATMs are still intact. In fact, they are getting longer at some places. People have started panicking and reports of several incidents of ruckus, stone pelting and road blockade by irate customers, unable to withdraw their money.  In one such incident on Tuesday morning, a security guard posted at HDFC Bank in Punjab had to fire thee shots in the air to disperse the crowd in the queue outside bank getting aggressive. Watch: Bank guard fired shots in air at HDFC, Budhlada, Punjab. 1st shot fired at 36th second, few more after that. Day 28, #Demonetisation . pic.twitter.com/F1Sv69ZokF The incident took place in HDFC branch in Budhlada town of Punjab, 20km from district headquarters Mansa. According to deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurmeet Singh, "the crowd got so impatient that the glass doors of the bank developed cracks". "Out of fear, the guard fired a gunshot in the air to disperse the crowd," he said. There were reports of people yelling and hurling abuses at the bank officials, but even that doesn't justify the guard's act.

It has been almost one month since the demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes on November 8, but queues outside banks and ATMs are still intact. In fact, they are getting longer at some places.

Representational ImagePeople have started panicking and reports of several incidents of ruckus, stone pelting and road blockade by irate customers, unable to withdraw their money. In one such incident on Tuesday morning, a security guard posted at HDFC Bank in Punjab had to fire thee shots in the air to disperse the crowd in the queue outside bank getting aggressive.

Watch: Bank guard fired shots in air at HDFC, Budhlada, Punjab. 1st shot fired at 36th second, few more after that. Day 28, #Demonetisation. pic.twitter.com/F1Sv69ZokF — Pratik Sinha (@free_thinker) December 6, 2016

The incident took place in HDFC branch in Budhlada town of Punjab, 20km from district headquarters Mansa. According to deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurmeet Singh, "the crowd got so impatient that the glass doors of the bank developed cracks".

"Out of fear, the guard fired a gunshot in the air to disperse the crowd," he said.

There were reports of people yelling and hurling abuses at the bank officials, but even that doesn't justify the guard's act.