Former Celtic kitman Jim McCafferty ‘confesses to sexual abuse in 1990s’

Youth coach Jim McCafferty, who spent time at Celtic in the 1990s, has admitted to criminal activities with young boys during his time at the club, according to the Daily Record. The 71-year-old former kitman for Celtic, Hibernian and Falkirk, has spoken to the newspaper of a campaign of sexual abuse of young footballers over two decades. He now faces a possible police investigation and a likely prosecution and prison sentence. McCafferty, who lives in Belfast, said: “I understand it was wrong. I was wrong and I did wrong and I am sorry. I have remorse. I know if I’m found guilty I will have to serve time, and I’ve said to myself that’s what I’ll have to pay back for what I’ve done. I’m OK with that. I hope that will cleanse my soul.” The coach admitted his guilt to the paper after preying on teenagers in the 1980s and 90s while coaching boys’ and junior teams in West Lothian. He also told the newspaper he abused young players at Celtic between 1990 and 1996. McCafferty gave the Daily Record the names of five of his victims but has stated there were around a dozen boys in total whom he preyed on. He said he never raped boys but admitted sexually touching their private parts. He admitted to regular sexual contact, including fondling and masturbation, with his victims. “I’ve regretted it for years. It has haunted me and I’ve not had a good night’s sleep for a long time,” McCafferty said. “Tonight, I feel unburdened.” When asked why he had decided to confess, he said: “Now I can take a breath again. My concern is if someone hurts me when I’m walking down the street.” Topics  Celtic   Falkirk   Hibernian

Youth coach Jim McCafferty, who spent time at Celtic in the 1990s, has admitted to criminal activities with young boys during his time at the club, according to the Daily Record.

The 71-year-old former kitman for Celtic, Hibernian and Falkirk, has spoken to the newspaper of a campaign of sexual abuse of young footballers over two decades. He now faces a possible police investigation and a likely prosecution and prison sentence.

FA appoints Clive Sheldon QC to lead sex abuse scandal review Read more

McCafferty, who lives in Belfast, said: “I understand it was wrong. I was wrong and I did wrong and I am sorry. I have remorse. I know if I’m found guilty I will have to serve time, and I’ve said to myself that’s what I’ll have to pay back for what I’ve done. I’m OK with that. I hope that will cleanse my soul.”

The coach admitted his guilt to the paper after preying on teenagers in the 1980s and 90s while coaching boys’ and junior teams in West Lothian. He also told the newspaper he abused young players at Celtic between 1990 and 1996.

McCafferty gave the Daily Record the names of five of his victims but has stated there were around a dozen boys in total whom he preyed on. He said he never raped boys but admitted sexually touching their private parts. He admitted to regular sexual contact, including fondling and masturbation, with his victims.

“I’ve regretted it for years. It has haunted me and I’ve not had a good night’s sleep for a long time,” McCafferty said. “Tonight, I feel unburdened.”

When asked why he had decided to confess, he said: “Now I can take a breath again. My concern is if someone hurts me when I’m walking down the street.”