Pakistan International Airways plane crashes north of Islamabad, killing 48 on board, including former pop star Junaid Jamshed
Pakistan International Airways plane crashes north of Islamabad, killing 48 on board, including former pop star Junaid Jamshed
ne of Pakistan's most successful pop stars was killed in a plane crash near Islamabad yesterday, along with 47 others. The Pakistan Air flight lost radio contact with air control at around 4.30pm before plunging into mountainous terrain in the district of Abbottabad. ll of the plane's passengers and crew are believed to have died in the crash, which according to aviation officials may have been due to an engine failure. Among the dead was Junaid Jamshed, a pop star turned evangelical preacher who was as famous for his 1980s-era hits as his conversion to Islam later in life. r Jamshed began his music career as the frontman of the pop group Vital Signs, which enjoyed a huge following in Pakistan due to its covers of Western artists such as Deep Purple and Led Zeppelin. He would go on to renounce music following the band's breakup in 1998 and had been working with the Tableeghi Jamaat, which travels the country preaching Islam, until his death. ne of Mr Jamshed's wives was on board the plane, according to local media reports, along with 41 other passengers, five crew members and an engineer. Two Austrians, a Chinese citizen and a number of children are also feared to be among the dead. "I don't think there is any chance of finding any survivors," Pervez George, a  spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority, said yesterday. Eyewitnesses told the Telegraph how they heard a "powerful blast" as the aircraft struck the hillside and burst into flames, leaving most of the bodies that were on board hard to identify. "When I reached the spot I saw the plane was on fire," said a local villager who took part in the initial rescue effort, "we all tried to extinguish the fire by throwing dust [on the aircraft.]" hey quickly realised that there was little hope that any of the passengers had survived. "They were all dead bodies," said Mubark Shah, another villager, "when we reached the spot we started collecting the burnt pieces of the bodies instead." Heart is bleeding for the lives lost, condolences to the family. We lose another icon.. this is just so so sad. #PK661  #JunaidJamshed n aviation official said it was too early to confirm the cause of the crash, but that it had "probably" occurred due to engine failure. A team of investigators has been sent to the crash site to help identify the bodies with DNA tests, according to the interior ministry.  "The entire nation is deeply saddened over today's unfortunate crash and shares the grief of the families who lost their dear ones," said Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan's prime minister, in a statement. Military recoveres 36 bodies he military says 36 bodies had been recovered. Rescue efforts involved about 500 soldiers, doctors and paramedics. Pakistan's previous flight disasters Pakistan's prime minister expresses grief akistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif expressed his "deep grief and sorrow" over the crash. In a statement, he said "the entire nation is deeply saddened over today's unfortunate crash and shares the grief of the families who lost their dear ones." Pakistan's celebrities pay tribute to Junaid Jamshed ctress, model and director Hamza Ali Abbasi: You will be missed Junaid bhai. #JunaidJamshed  pic.twitter.com/X7uk4mCHtF ctress Mahira Khan: Heart is bleeding for the lives lost, condolences to the family. We lose another icon.. this is just so so sad. #PK661  #JunaidJamshed Model and actress Urwa Hocane: Saddened beyond words! Rest in peace #JunaidJamshed & all the people who were on board! Inna Lillahi Wa Inna Ilaihi Rajiun! What caused the crash? t is still not known what caused Flight PK661 to crash. Government aviation secretary Irfan Elahi told media the plane suffered engine problems but it was too early to determine the cause of the accident. Some accounts have described the plan as being on fire before it crashed. Twenty-one bodies recovered he military has reported that 21 bodies have been recovered from scene of the crash. "Rescue effort continues. 21 bodies recovered so far," the military's media wing, ISPR, said in a short statement. Witnesses from the crash site in the Havelian area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, about 77 miles north of Islamabad, said there were unlikely to be any survivors. A local trader at the site of the crash said the fire was still burning nearly two hours after the crash, with rescue officials now on the site. "They are removing body parts," trader Nasim Gohar told Geo TV. Tributes pour in for Vital Signs star Junaid Jamshed he New York Times Pakistan correspondent Salman Masood pays tribute to Junaid Jamshed, singer with 1980s-1990s band Vital Signs, who has reportedly died in the plane crash: Vital Signs was an iconic band and defined the youthful aspirations of the early 90s when Pakistan was leaving behind martial law memories Junaid Jamshed's velvety voice and brooding, nostalgic ballads of Vital Signs touched a chord with a whole generation. RIP JJ. Junaid Jamshed and other members of Vital Signs, with their leather jackets and stonewashed jeans, were style icons of early 90s  ere's Vital Signs' biggest hit "Dil Dil Pakistan", which was hugely popular worldwide:  Foreigners on board he flight manifest for Flight PK661 shows several people on board the flight with foreign names.  Two children appeared to also be on board the plane. First images emerge from the crash site  Pakistan's recent air disasters akistan's last major air disaster was in 2015 when a Pakistani military helicopter crashed in a remote northern valley, killing eight people including the Norwegian, Philippine and Indonesian envoys and the wives of Malaysian and Indonesian envoys. The deadliest crash was in 2010, when an Airbus 321 operated by private airline Airblue and flying from Karachi crashed into hills outside Islamabad while about to land, killing all 152 on board. The accident was blamed on a confused captain and a hostile cockpit atmosphere in an official report. Fears Pakistani pop star-turned cleric was on board ocal television stations are reporting Pakistani pop star-turned evangelical cleric Junaid Jamshed was on board the plane that crashed. An airline official told Reuters that the Pakistani pop star turned evangelical Muslim cleric, was on board the flight. His name appeared on a passenger manifest for Pakistan International Airlines' (PIA) flight PK661 and his presence on board was confirmed by Sohail Ahmed, a PIA official in Chitral. Jamshed rocketed to fame in Pakistan in the 1980s and 1990s as the singer for the Vital Signs rock group, and later launched a solo career, with a string of chart-topping albums and hits. إِنَّا للهِ وَإِنَّـا إِلَيْهِ رَاجِعونَ @JunaidJamshedPK  May ALLAH be merciful upon him and his family. pic.twitter.com/ni7V25ojLZ amshed retired from music in 2001 and announced that he was devoting his life to Islam, joining the conservative Tableeghi Jamaat religious organisation. Heaven on Earth Chitral. With my friends in the Path of Allah . Snowpacked Tirchmir right behind us pic.twitter.com/ZajcWEKlrG 'Bodies burned beyond recognition' here are unlikely to be any survivors from a Pakistan International Airlines plane that crashed in a mountainous northern region with 47 people on board on Wednesday, a government official on the scene said. "All of the bodies are burned beyond recognition. The debris is scattered," Taj Muhammad Khan, a government official based in the Havelian region, told Reuters. Khan, who was at the site of the crash, added that witnesses told him "the aircraft has crashed in a mountainous area, and before it hit the ground it was on fire".

One of Mr Jamshed's wives was on board the plane, according to local media reports, along with 41 other passengers, five crew members and an engineer. Two Austrians, a Chinese citizen and a number of children are also feared to be among the dead.

"I don't think there is any chance of finding any survivors," Pervez George, a spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority, said yesterday. Eyewitnesses told the Telegraph how they heard a "powerful blast" as the aircraft struck the hillside and burst into flames, leaving most of the bodies that were on board hard to identify.

"When I reached the spot I saw the plane was on fire," said a local villager who took part in the initial rescue effort, "we all tried to extinguish the fire by throwing dust [on the aircraft.]"