6 Pilots Grounded Over Allegations Of Delaying The Landing Of Flight Carrying Mamata Banerjee
6 Pilots Grounded Over Allegations Of Delaying The Landing Of Flight Carrying Mamata Banerjee
6 Pilots Grounded Over Allegations Of Delaying The Landing Of Flight Carrying Mamata Banerjee The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has suspended six pilots — two each from IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India — who had reported running low on fuel while landing in Kolkata last Wednesday. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was on board the IndiGo Patna-Kolkata flight and the AI and Spice-Jet planes were ahead of her aircraft in landing sequence. Banerjee's party had turned the issue of fuel shortage and alleged denial of emergency landing into a political controversy. Sources said the regulatory action was a 'strict' warning to airlines not to cut corners on fuel, especially in the winter season when visibility keeps getting hit and planes have to divert from their scheduled destinations. "The DGCA has de-rostered (meaning grounded) the pilots and sought their corrective training," said an AI spokesperson. SpiceJet also confirmed the move, while IndiGo referred to a statement issued last week saying "pilots operating this flight have been made available for any inquiry by the regulator". The airlines are unhappy with the move. They say their pilots had reported running low on "hovering fuel" for Kolkata, which meant that fuel level of the Airbus A-320 of Indi-Go and AI and the Boeing 737 of SpiceJet was reaching a point where they would have had to proceed to the alternative airport, Bhubaneswar. Whenever an aircraft takes off, it has to take fuel adequate for flying, in addition to holding or hovering at the destination for 30 minutes, diverting to an alternative airport if needed and hovering at at the alternative airport for 30 minutes. "Our flights had adequate fuel. They were running low on hovering fuel for Kolkata. They could have diverted to the alternative airport," said a source in one of the airlines. The confusion, according to IndiGo, had arisen due to a communication gap between its pilots and the Kolkata air traffic control (ATC).

The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has suspended six pilots — two each from IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India — who had reported running low on fuel while landing in Kolkata last Wednesday.

Reuters

West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was on board the IndiGo Patna-Kolkata flight and the AI and Spice-Jet planes were ahead of her aircraft in landing sequence.

Banerjee's party had turned the issue of fuel shortage and alleged denial of emergency landing into a political controversy.

Sources said the regulatory action was a 'strict' warning to airlines not to cut corners on fuel, especially in the winter season when visibility keeps getting hit and planes have to divert from their scheduled destinations. "The DGCA has de-rostered (meaning grounded) the pilots and sought their corrective training," said an AI spokesperson.

SpiceJet also confirmed the move, while IndiGo referred to a statement issued last week saying "pilots operating this flight have been made available for any inquiry by the regulator".

AFP

The airlines are unhappy with the move. They say their pilots had reported running low on "hovering fuel" for Kolkata, which meant that fuel level of the Airbus A-320 of Indi-Go and AI and the Boeing 737 of SpiceJet was reaching a point where they would have had to proceed to the alternative airport, Bhubaneswar.

Whenever an aircraft takes off, it has to take fuel adequate for flying, in addition to holding or hovering at the destination for 30 minutes, diverting to an alternative airport if needed and hovering at at the alternative airport for 30 minutes.

"Our flights had adequate fuel. They were running low on hovering fuel for Kolkata. They could have diverted to the alternative airport," said a source in one of the airlines.

The confusion, according to IndiGo, had arisen due to a communication gap between its pilots and the Kolkata air traffic control (ATC).