There's a very good reason to tweet emoji at Google right now
There's a very good reason to tweet emoji at Google right now
Your friends know what it means when you text them a burger emoji — you're hungry! 🍔 — but Google sure doesn't. Or didn't, we should say: Because starting today, Google will be able to interpret emoji via its Twitter handle. Simply tweet an emoji to @Google and the service will give you relevant results. SEE ALSO: Google Allo now predicts which emoji you want to use So, if you want to find the best burger in your area, all you have to do is tweet the burger emoji at Google, which takes just a matter of seconds. The account will then respond with a link to a Google search for "burgers nearby," displaying a map with restaurant listings. Image:  google Google says the feature will work with over 200 different emoji for food, sites and activities near you. It's also promising some "easter eggs." It'll be interesting to see which emoji will yield search results — and you better believe we'll be trying as many as we can. (And yes, we're going there with the eggplant emoji.) Stay tuned 🍆 BONUS: Turning human remains into coffee cups

Your friends know what it means when you text them a burger emoji — you're hungry! 🍔 — but Google sure doesn't.

Or didn't, we should say: Because starting today, Google will be able to interpret emoji via its Twitter handle. Simply tweet an emoji to @Google and the service will give you relevant results.

SEE ALSO: Google Allo now predicts which emoji you want to use

So, if you want to find the best burger in your area, all you have to do is tweet the burger emoji at Google, which takes just a matter of seconds. The account will then respond with a link to a Google search for "burgers nearby," displaying a map with restaurant listings.

Image: google

Google says the feature will work with over 200 different emoji for food, sites and activities near you. It's also promising some "easter eggs."

It'll be interesting to see which emoji will yield search results — and you better believe we'll be trying as many as we can. (And yes, we're going there with the eggplant emoji.)

Stay tuned 🍆