Obamacare Repeal Without 'Replace' Doubles Uninsured To 59 Million
Obamacare Repeal Without 'Replace' Doubles Uninsured To 59 Million
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Repealing the Affordable Care Act through Congressional budgetary maneuvers would strip 30 million Americans of health coverage and send the private insurance market into a “death spiral,” according to a new report from the Urban Institute . With neither Donald Trump nor Republicans in Congress having a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, scenarios are emerging about what happens should the law be repealed even on a partial basis under the so-called budgetary reconciliation process. On Sunday, U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan reiterated plans on ’ to repeal the ACA through budgetary action, but didn’t say how it would be replaced or how long a transition to new coverage would take, according to the interview . President-elect Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis., pose for photographers after a meeting in the Speaker's office on Capitol Hill in Washington on Nov. 10, 2016. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) The Urban Institute report analyzes future health coverage and government spending under a scenario based on a reconciliation bill supported by Ryan and passed by the Republican-controlled Congress in January of this year. That legislation was vetoed by President Obama, as expected.  the report , written by Linda Blumberg, Matthew Buettgens and John Holahan, says. “The ,” the report says. “The share of nonelderly people without insurance would increase from 11% to 21%, a higher rate of uninsurance than before the ACA, because of the disruption to the nongroup insurance market.” Only parts of the ACA with “federal budget implications” can be changed through reconciliation. That means the Medicaid expansion adopted by 31 states and the District of Columbia and federal dollars directed toward premium tax credits for individuals who purchase private coverage on the ACA’s public exchange would be eliminated. Health insurers including , , , and would also suffer along with medical-care providers under most partial ACA repeal scenarios. Despite damage to the healthcare industry and people currently with coverage, a repeal would be a windfall to federal coffers. In 2019 alone, federal spending on healthcare for the “nonelderly” would drop by $109 million and by more than $1 trillion from 2019 to 2028 “because the Medicaid expansion, premium tax credits, and cost-sharing assistance would be eliminated.” But hospitals would be hit hard by a jump in unpaid medical bills related to “uncompensated care,” the Urban Institute report said. “This financial pressure would result from the newly uninsured seeking an additional $1.1 trillion in uncompensated care between 2019 and 2028,” the institute report said. “The 2016 reconciliation bill did not increase funding for uncompensated care beyond current levels. Unless different action is taken, the approach would place very large increases in demand for uncompensated care on state and local governments and providers.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Repealing the Affordable Care Act through Congressional budgetary maneuvers would strip 30 million Americans of health coverage and send the private insurance market into a “death spiral,” according to a new report from the Urban Institute.

With neither Donald Trump nor Republicans in Congress having a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, scenarios are emerging about what happens should the law be repealed even on a partial basis under the so-called budgetary reconciliation process. On Sunday, U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan reiterated plans on ’ 60 Minutes to repeal the ACA through budgetary action, but didn’t say how it would be replaced or how long a transition to new coverage would take, according to the interview.

The Urban Institute report analyzes future health coverage and government spending under a scenario based on a reconciliation bill supported by Ryan and passed by the Republican-controlled Congress in January of this year. That legislation was vetoed by President Obama, as expected.

“There is currently no consensus around alternative health policies to enact as the ACA is repealed,” the report, written by Linda Blumberg, Matthew Buettgens and John Holahan, says.

“The number of uninsured people would rise from 28.9 million to 58.7 million in 2019, an increase of 29.8 million people ,” the report says. “The share of nonelderly people without insurance would increase from 11% to 21%, a higher rate of uninsurance than before the ACA, because of the disruption to the nongroup insurance market.”

Only parts of the ACA with “federal budget implications” can be changed through reconciliation. That means the Medicaid expansion adopted by 31 states and the District of Columbia and federal dollars directed toward premium tax credits for individuals who purchase private coverage on the ACA’s public exchange would be eliminated. Health insurers including , , , and would also suffer along with medical-care providers under most partial ACA repeal scenarios.

Despite damage to the healthcare industry and people currently with coverage, a repeal would be a windfall to federal coffers. In 2019 alone, federal spending on healthcare for the “nonelderly” would drop by $109 million and by more than $1 trillion from 2019 to 2028 “because the Medicaid expansion, premium tax credits, and cost-sharing assistance would be eliminated.”

But hospitals would be hit hard by a jump in unpaid medical bills related to “uncompensated care,” the Urban Institute report said.

“This financial pressure would result from the newly uninsured seeking an additional $1.1 trillion in uncompensated care between 2019 and 2028,” the institute report said. “The 2016 reconciliation bill did not increase funding for uncompensated care beyond current levels. Unless different action is taken, the approach would place very large increases in demand for uncompensated care on state and local governments and providers.”