You can now use multiple phone numbers on a single phone through T-Mobile
You can now use multiple phone numbers on a single phone through T-Mobile
Since the days of Alexander Graham Bell, the standard has been one number for one phone. That stayed true even through the introduction of the smartphone. T-Mobile debuted a new program on Wednesday that allows multiple numbers to be used on a single smartphone. Called DIGITS, the program also allows for one number to be used across a variety of different connected devices including wearables. T-Mobile said that the new program is also available on Verizon and AT&T smartphones. T-Mobile CEO John Legere announced the new offer with his usual enthusiasm. . @TMobile already changed the wireless industry, and now, we’re changing the phone number!! Who’s ready for #DIGITS ?!? https://t.co/UpDg1ooxMK — John Legere (@JohnLegere) December 7, 2016 “Phones today are nothing like they were just a decade ago, but the phone number has basically stayed the same forever. It’s time to shake things up!” Legere said in a press release. More than 30 million Americans carry multiple devices on different plans costing consumers $10 billion a year in overlap, T-Mobile noted in its press release. The company also said the program is being targeted at businesses, with its new DIGITS being shareable among employees. The program is already integrated into Samsung Note 5 and Galaxy S6 smartphones. Everyone else will need to download the DIGITS app through the Apple App Store or Google Play. There's also programs for PC and Mac computers. DIGITS is currently only open in a limited beta. T-Mobile customers have to sign up to participate. The features are free for now, with no indication of future pricing.

Since the days of Alexander Graham Bell, the standard has been one number for one phone. That stayed true even through the introduction of the smartphone.

T-Mobile debuted a new program on Wednesday that allows multiple numbers to be used on a single smartphone.

Called DIGITS, the program also allows for one number to be used across a variety of different connected devices including wearables.

T-Mobile said that the new program is also available on Verizon and AT&T smartphones.

T-Mobile CEO John Legere announced the new offer with his usual enthusiasm.

.@TMobile already changed the wireless industry, and now, we’re changing the phone number!! Who’s ready for #DIGITS?!? https://t.co/UpDg1ooxMK — John Legere (@JohnLegere) December 7, 2016

“Phones today are nothing like they were just a decade ago, but the phone number has basically stayed the same forever. It’s time to shake things up!” Legere said in a press release.

More than 30 million Americans carry multiple devices on different plans costing consumers $10 billion a year in overlap, T-Mobile noted in its press release.

The company also said the program is being targeted at businesses, with its new DIGITS being shareable among employees.

The program is already integrated into Samsung Note 5 and Galaxy S6 smartphones. Everyone else will need to download the DIGITS app through the Apple App Store or Google Play. There's also programs for PC and Mac computers.

DIGITS is currently only open in a limited beta. T-Mobile customers have to sign up to participate. The features are free for now, with no indication of future pricing.