Fabulous Men and a Fabulous Pledge
Fabulous Men and a Fabulous Pledge
Fabulous Men and a Fabulous Pledge   Tech  Tim Culpan is a technology columnist for Bloomberg Gadfly. He previously covered technology for Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  I hate to rain on your parade and all, but that $50 billion investment Masayoshi Son is supposedly pledging to create 50,000 jobs in the U.S.? It's not happening. When fabulous people meet, fabulous things are said. Donald Trump and Son told the world in New York on Tuesday that the Japanese billionaire will create jobs equivalent to three times those at Facebook Inc. (market cap: $339 billion). At $1 million per job, the cash-to-employment ratio sounds reasonable. But SoftBank Group Corp. doesn't have that kind of cash. It's to come via the previously announced $100 billion SoftBank Vision Fund, a huge virtual pile of money that will be 45 percent provided by the government of Saudi Arabia, with $25 billion coming from SoftBank. The rest is still being rounded up, but expect Foxconn Technology Group to pitch in. (Let me pause here to point out the irony of the president-elect cheering a wave of Saudi money into the U.S.) As for SoftBank, the company doesn't have the money for its own fund. A quick look at its balance sheet and you'll see that the Japanese telco-cum-VC has $26.4 billion in cash, $35.3 billion in short-term borrowings, $137 billion in long-term liabilities and a junk credit rating from both S&P Global Ratings and Moody's Investors Service. In fact, "substantial credit risk, have speculative characteristics" is the way Moody's describes the Ba1 rating that it gave SoftBank. The term "speculative characteristics" describes this Son-Trump pledge. For Son to pony up the money to meet his end of the SoftBank Vision Fund, he'd put the mothership's debt rating in jeopardy. Maybe Son doesn't care how much he pledges to Trump's job-creation campaign, calculating that it's worth the risk if it helps Sprint Corp., which SoftBank owns, take over T-Mobile US Inc. Son hinted as much when he told reporters that he wanted to celebrate Trump's election because the president-elect would advocate for deregulation. To be clear, those billions aren't intended for M&A, Bloomberg News reported, citing a person familiar with the matter. That's meant to be venture-capital money. As with some other measures announced by the president-elect, such investments were already in the pipeline before he won, and anyway the last thing the U.S. needs is trickle-down venturenomics. That $50 billion figure, which I predict won't be deployed by SoftBank in U.S. startups in our lifetime, much less during a four-year Trump term, is double the amount of all VC funding made in 2009 and just shy of the value invested in 2014, according to the accounting firm EY. The fact that the figure grew to $72.3 billion last year reinforces the point I made in October that the U.S. doesn't need more cash to keep Silicon Valley humming along. Then there's job creation. In theory, $50 billion could create 50,000 jobs. However, this is not a new $50 billion, but money on top of the billions already available from U.S. venture capitalists and the buckets more flooding in from around the world, including China. The 50th $1 billion will create far fewer jobs than the first $1 billion. While neither Trump nor Son may worry too much about the facts, it's clear someone will be writing checks that can't be cashed. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  Yes, I know that Son and Trump never said it would be invested during his presidency.  To contact the author of this story: in at tculpan1@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at psillitoe@bloomberg.net Supply Overhang Room to Spare  Maersk's Rose-Tinted 2017   Industrials  Vivendi's Mediaset stake Punch-Up  Billionaire Goes Bare Knuckles With Berlusconi  Projected U.S. E&P Spending Increase in 2017 Contractor Killing  A Winter Break For Oilfield Services   Energy  UniCredit's Rights Offering Italian Bank Clean-Up  Paying for the Past   Finance  AB InBev's net debt may reach Small Beer  Out With the Old for AB Inbev   Consumer  The East Is in the Black EXPECT MORE  Sinopec's Obscenely Profitable Pipeline   Commodities  Axis Bank share-price decline since Nov. 8 demonetization Acrid Aperitif  Indian Banks' Poisoned Chalice   Finance  Asia Pacific investment banking fee pool, 2016 Chop Chop  Wall Street Banks Should Sharpen Their Knives   Deals  Actual Aerospace Jobs Iran Deal Will Create How Many Jobs?  Boeing's Iran Deal Goes Big League   Industrials  Let the Sunshine In  Alexion's Information Blackout Isn't Working   Health  Media on the Move What's Next?  Shari Redstone to Viacom and CBS: Just Kidding!   Deals  Leadership Matters Grilled  One Chipotle CEO Gets the Boot, the Other a Hot Seat   Consumer  Shale Shutout  An Early Victory in Saudi vs Shale   Energy  Bond Bust Crude Calculations  Oil Taketh From Bonds, But It Can Giveth, Too   Markets  Sky Refuseniks  Digging In Against Murdoch   Deals  Monte Paschi needs mom & pop to say Altogether Now  Monte Paschi's Second Referendum   Finance  Potential US Foods Deal Value Grab the PAddles  A Second Chance for Sysco-US Foods?   Deals  Lights Dim for Lumileds China Put  The Chinese Squeeze on Banker Fees   Deals  Uppity  India's NSE Must List Sans Hubris   Finance  Year Monte dei Paschi founded World-beaters  The Asian Bank Answer   Markets  E-commerce in Southeast Asia, 2025 In the Stars  Asean Startups' Time to Shine  Shifting U.S. Oil Inventories New Deal  OPEC Doomed to Repeat History   Energy  In the Doldrums Brexit Bargain  Sky Rolls Over for Fox  Flat Out Going Flat  Coke's New CEO Needs to Shake It Up   Consumer  Monte Paschi  Making a Crisis out of an Italian Drama   Finance

I hate to rain on your parade and all, but that $50 billion investment Masayoshi Son is supposedly pledging to create 50,000 jobs in the U.S.? It's not happening.

When fabulous people meet, fabulous things are said.

Donald Trump and Son told the world in New York on Tuesday that the Japanese billionaire will create jobs equivalent to three times those at Facebook Inc. (market cap: $339 billion).

Soft Money SoftBank doesn't have the cash to meet Son's pledge to invest $25 billion in a venture fund Source: Bloomberg

At $1 million per job, the cash-to-employment ratio sounds reasonable. But SoftBank Group Corp. doesn't have that kind of cash. It's to come via the previously announced $100 billion SoftBank Vision Fund, a huge virtual pile of money that will be 45 percent provided by the government of Saudi Arabia, with $25 billion coming from SoftBank. The rest is still being rounded up, but expect Foxconn Technology Group to pitch in.

(Let me pause here to point out the irony of the president-elect cheering a wave of Saudi money into the U.S.)

As for SoftBank, the company doesn't have the money for its own fund. A quick look at its balance sheet and you'll see that the Japanese telco-cum-VC has $26.4 billion in cash, $35.3 billion in short-term borrowings, $137 billion in long-term liabilities and a junk credit rating from both S&P Global Ratings and Moody's Investors Service. In fact, "substantial credit risk, have speculative characteristics" is the way Moody's describes the Ba1 rating that it gave SoftBank.

The term "speculative characteristics" describes this Son-Trump pledge. For Son to pony up the money to meet his end of the SoftBank Vision Fund, he'd put the mothership's debt rating in jeopardy.

SoftBank's credit rating Junk

Maybe Son doesn't care how much he pledges to Trump's job-creation campaign, calculating that it's worth the risk if it helps Sprint Corp., which SoftBank owns, take over T-Mobile US Inc. Son hinted as much when he told reporters that he wanted to celebrate Trump's election because the president-elect would advocate for deregulation.

Hard Money There's no shortage of funds, with $72.3 billion deployed by venture capitalists in the U.S. last year Source: EY

To be clear, those billions aren't intended for M&A, Bloomberg News reported, citing a person familiar with the matter. That's meant to be venture-capital money. As with some other measures announced by the president-elect, such investments were already in the pipeline before he won, and anyway the last thing the U.S. needs is trickle-down venturenomics.

That $50 billion figure, which I predict won't be deployed by SoftBank in U.S. startups in our lifetime, much less during a four-year Trump term, is double the amount of all VC funding made in 2009 and just shy of the value invested in 2014, according to the accounting firm EY. The fact that the figure grew to $72.3 billion last year reinforces the point I made in October that the U.S. doesn't need more cash to keep Silicon Valley humming along.

Then there's job creation. In theory, $50 billion could create 50,000 jobs. However, this is not a new $50 billion, but additional money on top of the billions already available from U.S. venture capitalists and the buckets more flooding in from around the world, including China. The 50th $1 billion will create far fewer jobs than the first $1 billion.

While neither Trump nor Son may worry too much about the facts, it's clear someone will be writing checks that can't be cashed.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Tim Culpan in Taipei at tculpan1@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Paul Sillitoe at psillitoe@bloomberg.net