Jayalalithaa’s Coffin Maker Has Made More Than 500 VIP Caskets Including Former PM And Film Stars
Jayalalithaa’s Coffin Maker Has Made Over 500 VIP Caskets Including Former PM And Film Stars
Jayalalithaa’s Coffin Maker Has Made More Than 500 VIP Caskets Including Former PM And Film Stars The coffin exclusively prepared for former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa was made by the Flying Squad and Homage Company - a company that has built coffins of famous personalities such as former Prime Minister Narasimha Rao and veteran actors Sivaji Ganesan and Manorama in the past. "The coffin was built with a freezer box with a heavy duty compressor to keep the body fresh. The exterior was gold plated," said P R M M Shanthakumar, managing director of the company, who had designed the coffin. Shanthakumar obtained the patent for designing and preparing coffins as early as 1994. He however rues that soon after people started replicating his designs with the addition of small improvisations and getting separate patents for themselves. The coffin at Rajaji Hall - where Jayalalithaa's body was kept for public homage- was lowered forward so as to enable visitors to see the body from a distance. While many were afraid that the body will slip in the coffin under its weight, Shantakumar's perfect fittings saved the day. "The body didn't tilt with the titling with the coffin as we had attached proper fixtures and arrangements to the coffin," Shanthakumar said. The coffin had the capacity to preserve a body for two to three days if the temperature inside was maintained between 0-5 degree Celsius. Shanthakumar and his team who had brought the coffin to Poes Garden had taken care of Jayalalithaa's body until it was transferred to the box in which she was buried at the MGR Mausoleum, on Tuesday. Shanthakumar has been in the business of coffin-making since 1994. The first coffin that he built for a politician was for former state minister V R Nedunchezhian. "We have built coffins for more than 500 VVIP's in Tamil Nadu and all the other southern states till now," he says.

The coffin exclusively prepared for former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa was made by the Flying Squad and Homage Company - a company that has built coffins of famous personalities such as former Prime Minister Narasimha Rao and veteran actors Sivaji Ganesan and Manorama in the past.

AFP

"The coffin was built with a freezer box with a heavy duty compressor to keep the body fresh. The exterior was gold plated," said P R M M Shanthakumar, managing director of the company, who had designed the coffin.

Shanthakumar obtained the patent for designing and preparing coffins as early as 1994. He however rues that soon after people started replicating his designs with the addition of small improvisations and getting separate patents for themselves.

AFP

The coffin at Rajaji Hall - where Jayalalithaa's body was kept for public homage- was lowered forward so as to enable visitors to see the body from a distance. While many were afraid that the body will slip in the coffin under its weight, Shantakumar's perfect fittings saved the day.

"The body didn't tilt with the titling with the coffin as we had attached proper fixtures and arrangements to the coffin," Shanthakumar said.

The coffin had the capacity to preserve a body for two to three days if the temperature inside was maintained between 0-5 degree Celsius. Shanthakumar and his team who had brought the coffin to Poes Garden had taken care of Jayalalithaa's body until it was transferred to the box in which she was buried at the MGR Mausoleum, on Tuesday.

Reuters

Shanthakumar has been in the business of coffin-making since 1994.

The first coffin that he built for a politician was for former state minister V R Nedunchezhian. "We have built coffins for more than 500 VVIP's in Tamil Nadu and all the other southern states till now," he says.