Hofstra fraternity accused of sickening hazing rituals
Hofstra fraternity accused of sickening hazing rituals
College Hofstra fraternity accused of sickening hazing rituals Members of the Sigma Pi fraternity at Hofstra University took hazing to new heights last year — with never-before-seen pictures depicting a slew of stomach-churning rituals, including vomiting on one another and being covered from head-to-toe in hot sauce. The images, published Tuesday by the Hofstra Chronicle, show students being subjected to a wide range of abuse over the course of the Fall 2014 and Fall 2015 pledge processes. They were obtained during a semester-long investigation, in which numerous acts of “extreme hazing” were uncovered within the now-defunct fraternity — such as forced favors, a merit and demerit system and anti-Semitic imagery, according to the school newspaper. ✏️ "This is how we do this, boys": @HUChronicle uncovers one Hofstra frat's sick hazing rituals https://t.co/c7FOXhLBJA  pic.twitter.com/JsJNrdAGh2 In one photo, three “pledges” from the Fall class of 2015 can be seen sprawled out on the ground, with their bodies covered in flour. Another shows a student locked in a small cage, which is intended to hold the smallest person in the pledge class.

Members of the Sigma Pi fraternity at Hofstra University took hazing to new heights last year — with never-before-seen pictures depicting a slew of stomach-churning rituals, including vomiting on one another and being covered from head-to-toe in hot sauce.

The images, published Tuesday by the Hofstra Chronicle, show students being subjected to a wide range of abuse over the course of the Fall 2014 and Fall 2015 pledge processes.

They were obtained during a semester-long investigation, in which numerous acts of “extreme hazing” were uncovered within the now-defunct fraternity — such as forced favors, a merit and demerit system and anti-Semitic imagery, according to the school newspaper.

✏️ "This is how we do this, boys": @HUChronicle uncovers one Hofstra frat's sick hazing rituals https://t.co/c7FOXhLBJA pic.twitter.com/JsJNrdAGh2 — Connor Ryan (@connortryan) December 7, 2016

In one photo, three “pledges” from the Fall class of 2015 can be seen sprawled out on the ground, with their bodies covered in flour.

Another shows a student locked in a small cage, which is intended to hold the smallest person in the pledge class.