LISTEN: There's Now a New, PC Remix of a Classic Christmas Song

LISTEN: There's Now a New, PC Remix of a Classic Christmas Song // What do you think about this? Activists write a new PC version of "Baby it's Cold Outside" (via @FoxFriendsFirst ) pic.twitter.com/IhopPxZLFc — FOX & Friends (@foxandfriends) December 7, 2016 Since it debuted in 1944, "Baby, It's Cold Outside" has been a ubiquitous Christmas song at shopping malls and holiday parties. Now, the classic tune has gotten a new, “less sexually aggressive” remix. Minnesota musicians Lydia Liza and Josiah Lemanski decided to change the lyrics of the popular duet - which is about a man trying to convince a woman who he likes to stay at a party longer. The new version emphasizes the importance of consent and mutual respect. Alternatives to the infamous, “But baby, it’s cold outside” line include “Baby, I’m fine with that,” “You reserve the right to say ‘no'” and “Hoping you get home safe.” Lemanski told CNN he “always had a big problem with the song. It’s so aggressive and inappropriate.” “You never figure out if she gets to go home,” Liza said. “You never figure out if there was something in her drink. It just leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth.” The song was originally written by Frank Loesser to be performed by him and his wife, Lynn Loesser, at parties. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

What do you think about this? Activists write a new PC version of "Baby it's Cold Outside" (via @FoxFriendsFirst) pic.twitter.com/IhopPxZLFc — FOX & Friends (@foxandfriends) December 7, 2016

Joy Behar Slams Trump: 'He's Not Right in the Head'

Philadelphia Mayor to Trump: We Won't 'Walk Back Sanctuary City' Policy

Distraught Oakland Warehouse Manager: 'I'd Rather Be Trampled by Victims' Parents!'

Since it debuted in 1944, "Baby, It's Cold Outside" has been a ubiquitous Christmas song at shopping malls and holiday parties.

Now, the classic tune has gotten a new, “less sexually aggressive” remix.

Minnesota musicians Lydia Liza and Josiah Lemanski decided to change the lyrics of the popular duet - which is about a man trying to convince a woman who he likes to stay at a party longer.

The new version emphasizes the importance of consent and mutual respect.

Alternatives to the infamous, “But baby, it’s cold outside” line include “Baby, I’m fine with that,” “You reserve the right to say ‘no'” and “Hoping you get home safe.”

Lemanski told CNN he “always had a big problem with the song. It’s so aggressive and inappropriate.”

“You never figure out if she gets to go home,” Liza said. “You never figure out if there was something in her drink. It just leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth.”

The song was originally written by Frank Loesser to be performed by him and his wife, Lynn Loesser, at parties.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Trump: Japan's SoftBank Will Invest $50B in U.S. & Create 50K New Jobs

Police: Anti-Trump Slogans Found on Burning Pickup Truck

Pavlich Rips Dems' Message: They 'Jumped the Shark' on Political Correctness