Peak Delly How NBA star Matthew Dellavedova helped design his signature shoe
Peak Delly: NBA star's signature shoe
Peak Delly: NBA star's signature shoe What's the holdup in new NBA deal? Jay Z takes shot at Jackson over use of 'posse' Lakers' Walton ejected after shouting at referees Nets' Lin back vs. Rockets after 6 weeks out John Legend gets All-Star Game halftime gig D-League to test 4- and 5-person referee crews Sources: Grizzlies' Ennis expected back next week Debating the greatest sneakers of all time Wesley Matthews delivers on his promise to be better after injury Metta World Peace: Luke Walton is 'going to be in the Hall of Fame' Knicks approaching top-10 status in NBA Power Rankings? Tim Duncan, Pau Gasol play one-on-one at Spurs practice Butler, Gibson gearing up for emotional reunion with Thibs Even without a triple-double, Westbrook's winning plays make the difference Marcus Smart on Celtics' late-game struggles: 'It's gotta stop' Wolf blitzers: How Warriors beat schedule and stormed to win Q&A: DeAndre Liggins discusses resurrecting his career with the Cavs Cavs' 3-point shooting contagious? LeBron launches 'em, too Phil Jackson's media missteps obscure real New York story Check out which players from Down Under made our top plays in the sixth week of NBA action. (1:04) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Matthew Dellavedova was skeptical at first. 'Delly' had just become a sneaker free-agent after years with Nike, wearing mostly Kobe Bryant's signature shoe, so when Peak approached him with an idea to design a signature shoe especially for him, and also an apparel range under the Peak Australia banner, Dellavedova was understandably taken aback, but curious at the same time. "I was a bit surprised to start with, but once I talked to [Peak Australia] they explained that I'd have a lot of involvement in the development of the shoe," Dellavedova says. The allure of being the first Australian with his own signature basketball shoe appealed to Dellavedova. Sure, Andrew Gaze had a Gaze-branded shoe with Dunlop some years back, but not as an actual signature basketball shoe. When talks progressed to include apparel as well, Dellavedova's signing with the brand became an opportunity too good to pass up. "We saw a real opportunity to develop a signature shoe for the Australian market and to promote basketball in Australia," Peak Australia chief executive Greg Bickley told ESPN. "The shoe is the cornerstone of the range, but also we're developing a running shoe, a casual shoe and a range of apparel under the Delly brand." Designing a shoe to an athlete's individual specifications is a painstaking trial-and-error process of sorts. A company will begin with a prototype that the athlete wear-tests, the athlete then gives his feedback on improvements that can be made, along with things they particularly like and dislike. The process goes on for months until the athlete is satisfied with the final product. Dellavedova was hands-on with the Delly 1's development from day one. Peak Australia and Dellavedova went through five or six prototypes until the shoe met the specifications of the Bucks' point guard. "I had a whole lot of involvement with the shoe," Dellavedova says. "I wanted a low-cut shoe that was light and close to the ground because I need to guard all these quick guards that are tough to defend over here [in the NBA]. They [Peak] did a great job with that, and as we went through the process of me testing it we just made minor adjustments. "I was very particular about my shoe because that's the most important piece of equipment you wear in basketball." Getting closer.. #Delly1s  @PeakSportAUS  @PeakSportHQ  pic.twitter.com/PUXVm2tuRl — Matthew Dellavedova (@matthewdelly) September 17, 2016 Some final adjustments were needed after Dellavedova saw an increase in his playing time as a starter with Milwaukee. The extra minutes on the floor meant that the Delly 1 required more cushioning to better help protect Dellavedova's feet. "We'd developed a shoe which was what he wanted - it was low and fast, close to the ground, and modelled on the type of shoes that he'd been wearing for many years," says Bickley. "That's what he wanted. "He's playing a lot more minutes [so] the demands on his shoe have certainly increased. We went into more development with the outsole and the cushioning that he needed because he was really putting a lot more demands on the shoe, so the shoe that he's wearing now is the final prototype that will now go into production." Darkness still cloaked the city as the sound of the overnight street sweepers had given way to trams taking early morning commuters to work. Matt Hammond, co-owner of Kickz101, one of Australia's leading speciality basketball stores. made his way to work a little earlier than normal for a weekday. This was, after all, a big day for not only his store, but for basketball fans in Melbourne. Nestled right in the heart of the city's business district, it's not uncommon for kids to be seen lining up outside Kickz101 on Saturday mornings when the latest sneakers are released. Hammond is accustomed to the sneaker drops - he's been handling those for years, but on this day, he had to orchestrate something entirely different. At 10am, Matthew Dellavedova, member of the recently crowned NBA champion Cleveland Cavaliers , was scheduled to make an in-store appearance. Hammond arrived at work at 6:30am to a group of about 20-30 kids braving the cold and lining up to be part of the first throng of people to greet Delly when he arrived. Hammond asked the group when they had arrived: "1am," they replied. That was just the beginning. "Not long after that the line just started growing, and growing, and growing fairly quickly," Hammond remembers. "[Delly was due] in around 10, so I think it was probably around 9 o'clock that the line had already gone around the corner, down Collins St and around the corner on Elizabeth St. By the time he arrived around 10, the line had gone down Elizabeth, and snaked all around back up to Little Flinders. It was a pretty huge line. As people were going to work they were asking us, 'what's going on?'" Hammond estimates the number of people waiting to see Delly reached between 1,500 to 2,000, including people from country Victoria, Tasmania, and even a girl who had flown in from Cleveland for the event, which speaks to the popularity of the Maryborough product. It became a production line of sorts trying to get as many people in the store to meet-and-greet the Aussie. "As Delly is, he's very polite, laid-back sort of guy. He was nice with everyone. Right on 10 we opened the doors and started filing people through," says Hammond. "He was there for two hours, and a lot of people didn't get a chance [to meet him] but a lot of people did. "It's a great reaction to a guy that's local. We've had [Melbourne-born NBA star] Kyrie (Irving) at our old location and that was huge - if we had Kyrie out now we would have had a huge crowd [also], but it shows that even for a local player, there's a massive, massive respect. Of course, it helped that he played for Cleveland and had just won a championship. It's a real healthy sign for the guys that play in the NBA that there is a lot of love for them."  , chances are that rarely will you see a pair of Peak shoes. Peak is still a fledgling company in the basketball sneaker world, but they're hoping to make a dent in the market similar to what Under Armour did in recent years with Steph Curry. Granted, Dellavedova doesn't possess the global appeal of the two-time MVP of the Golden State Warriors , but he does have homegrown support as a foundation to build on. That support will largely come from the grassroots level, according to Hammond, who believes regional locations will be where Peak targets its marketing of the shoe. "I think from talking to the guys at Peak, the [majority of] sales for them will come from the regional stores," he says. "Country and regional locations which, for them, they get very limited basketball footwear range, and because Delly is from country Victoria, that market will do quite well with the shoe." Popularity with Aussie NBA fans is one thing, but the challenge facing the Delly 1 will be translating that popularity into sales of footwear and apparel. Hammond, who understands the basketball footwear landscape in Australia better than most, feels that the stranglehold established behemoths Nike and adidas have on the market could be the biggest hurdle to overcome for the Delly 1. "One thing we are a little wary of is the price ($160 AUD) - it's not necessarily a cheap shoe here," says Hammond. "The Kyrie 2 is $160 retail [so] we're wondering, is the consumer going to come in and buy Delly's shoe just because it's Delly, or are they going to weigh up, and go with the Kyrie because it is a Nike and they have the runs on the board? "That's one area to be mindful of, and will people pay that price for a brand that's not necessarily premium here? "In saying that, we're still confident it'll sell quite well." Will sales be the sole barometer the company used to judge the success of the Delly 1, or is resonating with the sneaker consumer just as crucial at this stage of development? "I think sales will be [a barometer]," says Bickley. "We're in the business to make money, but [also] provide a product that is high quality, and give the Australian market a sense of something new, something different." "It's definitely gonna sell," adds Hammond. "It's not gonna fly out the store like a Kyrie does, or the main signature product from Nike or adidas, but we're definitely having people asking us quite regularly about it." Although regional Australia will be the target demographic, Peak have plans to make a global push once the Delly 1 hits retailers. "Peak China (where the company headquarters are located) have some very exciting plans for Matthew as an athlete all around the world," says Bickley. "His product will be going into countries all around the world. They've already got orders from Europe, South America, Asia .... it's a massive uplift in his profile. "We're excited for what it will mean for him as a Delly brand, but also for Peak to have an athlete of his calibre as a person under their brand. He's a great ambassador for the brand. He's the ultimate role model for Australian kids, not just as a basketball player, but as a person." Even now, with the shoe already in production and scheduled for retail release in March or April next year, for a kid from Maryborough, Victoria, it's still a little surreal for Dellavedova to grasp that he has his own shoe and apparel range. It's something that he never imagined possible. "I never thought that would happen, that thought never really crossed my mind [but] it's very cool and I can't wait for them to start getting sold in Australia," he says. "It'll be cool to see somebody wearing them up in the local stadium in Maryborough." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Check out which players from Down Under made our top plays in the sixth week of NBA action. (1:04)

Matthew Dellavedova was skeptical at first.

'Delly' had just become a sneaker free-agent after years with Nike, wearing mostly Kobe Bryant's signature shoe, so when Peak approached him with an idea to design a signature shoe especially for him, and also an apparel range under the Peak Australia banner, Dellavedova was understandably taken aback, but curious at the same time.

"I was a bit surprised to start with, but once I talked to [Peak Australia] they explained that I'd have a lot of involvement in the development of the shoe," Dellavedova says.

The allure of being the first Australian with his own signature basketball shoe appealed to Dellavedova. Sure, Andrew Gaze had a Gaze-branded shoe with Dunlop some years back, but not as an actual signature basketball shoe. When talks progressed to include apparel as well, Dellavedova's signing with the brand became an opportunity too good to pass up.

"We saw a real opportunity to develop a signature shoe for the Australian market and to promote basketball in Australia," Peak Australia chief executive Greg Bickley told ESPN. "The shoe is the cornerstone of the range, but also we're developing a running shoe, a casual shoe and a range of apparel under the Delly brand."

Designing a shoe to an athlete's individual specifications is a painstaking trial-and-error process of sorts. A company will begin with a prototype that the athlete wear-tests, the athlete then gives his feedback on improvements that can be made, along with things they particularly like and dislike. The process goes on for months until the athlete is satisfied with the final product.

Editor's Picks Delly goes to Hollywood with movie of career so far Matthew Dellavedova's storybook couple of months inspires Hollywood producers to make a movie about his journey from Victoria to the NBA.

Dellavedova was hands-on with the Delly 1's development from day one.

Peak Australia and Dellavedova went through five or six prototypes until the shoe met the specifications of the Bucks' point guard.

"I had a whole lot of involvement with the shoe," Dellavedova says. "I wanted a low-cut shoe that was light and close to the ground because I need to guard all these quick guards that are tough to defend over here [in the NBA]. They [Peak] did a great job with that, and as we went through the process of me testing it we just made minor adjustments.

"I was very particular about my shoe because that's the most important piece of equipment you wear in basketball."

Some final adjustments were needed after Dellavedova saw an increase in his playing time as a starter with Milwaukee. The extra minutes on the floor meant that the Delly 1 required more cushioning to better help protect Dellavedova's feet. "We'd developed a shoe which was what he wanted - it was low and fast, close to the ground, and modelled on the type of shoes that he'd been wearing for many years," says Bickley. "That's what he wanted.

"He's playing a lot more minutes [so] the demands on his shoe have certainly increased. We went into more development with the outsole and the cushioning that he needed because he was really putting a lot more demands on the shoe, so the shoe that he's wearing now is the final prototype that will now go into production."

Rob Foldy/Getty Images

It was a typical cold and blustery late-June Melbourne morning.

Darkness still cloaked the city as the sound of the overnight street sweepers had given way to trams taking early morning commuters to work.

Matt Hammond, co-owner of Kickz101, one of Australia's leading speciality basketball stores. made his way to work a little earlier than normal for a weekday. This was, after all, a big day for not only his store, but for basketball fans in Melbourne. Nestled right in the heart of the city's business district, it's not uncommon for kids to be seen lining up outside Kickz101 on Saturday mornings when the latest sneakers are released.

Hammond is accustomed to the sneaker drops - he's been handling those for years, but on this day, he had to orchestrate something entirely different. At 10am, Matthew Dellavedova, member of the recently crowned NBA champion Cleveland Cavaliers, was scheduled to make an in-store appearance.

Hammond arrived at work at 6:30am to a group of about 20-30 kids braving the cold and lining up to be part of the first throng of people to greet Delly when he arrived. Hammond asked the group when they had arrived: "1am," they replied.

That was just the beginning.

"Not long after that the line just started growing, and growing, and growing fairly quickly," Hammond remembers. "[Delly was due] in around 10, so I think it was probably around 9 o'clock that the line had already gone around the corner, down Collins St and around the corner on Elizabeth St. By the time he arrived around 10, the line had gone down Elizabeth, and snaked all around back up to Little Flinders. It was a pretty huge line. As people were going to work they were asking us, 'what's going on?'"

Hammond estimates the number of people waiting to see Delly reached between 1,500 to 2,000, including people from country Victoria, Tasmania, and even a girl who had flown in from Cleveland for the event, which speaks to the popularity of the Maryborough product.

It became a production line of sorts trying to get as many people in the store to meet-and-greet the Aussie.

"As Delly is, he's very polite, laid-back sort of guy. He was nice with everyone. Right on 10 we opened the doors and started filing people through," says Hammond. "He was there for two hours, and a lot of people didn't get a chance [to meet him] but a lot of people did.

"It's a great reaction to a guy that's local. We've had [Melbourne-born NBA star] Kyrie (Irving) at our old location and that was huge - if we had Kyrie out now we would have had a huge crowd [also], but it shows that even for a local player, there's a massive, massive respect. Of course, it helped that he played for Cleveland and had just won a championship. It's a real healthy sign for the guys that play in the NBA that there is a lot of love for them."

Jason Miller/Getty Images

Walk the streets of Australia and check the feet of anyone who's into sneakers, chances are that rarely will you see a pair of Peak shoes. Peak is still a fledgling company in the basketball sneaker world, but they're hoping to make a dent in the market similar to what Under Armour did in recent years with Steph Curry. Granted, Dellavedova doesn't possess the global appeal of the two-time MVP of the Golden State Warriors, but he does have homegrown support as a foundation to build on.

That support will largely come from the grassroots level, according to Hammond, who believes regional locations will be where Peak targets its marketing of the shoe.

"I think from talking to the guys at Peak, the [majority of] sales for them will come from the regional stores," he says. "Country and regional locations which, for them, they get very limited basketball footwear range, and because Delly is from country Victoria, that market will do quite well with the shoe."

Popularity with Aussie NBA fans is one thing, but the challenge facing the Delly 1 will be translating that popularity into sales of footwear and apparel. Hammond, who understands the basketball footwear landscape in Australia better than most, feels that the stranglehold established behemoths Nike and adidas have on the market could be the biggest hurdle to overcome for the Delly 1.

"One thing we are a little wary of is the price ($160 AUD) - it's not necessarily a cheap shoe here," says Hammond. "The Kyrie 2 is $160 retail [so] we're wondering, is the consumer going to come in and buy Delly's shoe just because it's Delly, or are they going to weigh up, and go with the Kyrie because it is a Nike and they have the runs on the board?

"That's one area to be mindful of, and will people pay that price for a brand that's not necessarily premium here?

"In saying that, we're still confident it'll sell quite well."

A close-up shot of Peak Australia's Delly 1 sneakers. Fernando Medina/NBAE via Getty Images

Will sales be the sole barometer the company used to judge the success of the Delly 1, or is resonating with the sneaker consumer just as crucial at this stage of development?

"I think sales will be [a barometer]," says Bickley. "We're in the business to make money, but [also] provide a product that is high quality, and give the Australian market a sense of something new, something different."

"It's definitely gonna sell," adds Hammond. "It's not gonna fly out the store like a Kyrie does, or the main signature product from Nike or adidas, but we're definitely having people asking us quite regularly about it."

Although regional Australia will be the target demographic, Peak have plans to make a global push once the Delly 1 hits retailers. "Peak China (where the company headquarters are located) have some very exciting plans for Matthew as an athlete all around the world," says Bickley. "His product will be going into countries all around the world. They've already got orders from Europe, South America, Asia .... it's a massive uplift in his profile.

"We're excited for what it will mean for him as a Delly brand, but also for Peak to have an athlete of his calibre as a person under their brand. He's a great ambassador for the brand. He's the ultimate role model for Australian kids, not just as a basketball player, but as a person."

Even now, with the shoe already in production and scheduled for retail release in March or April next year, for a kid from Maryborough, Victoria, it's still a little surreal for Dellavedova to grasp that he has his own shoe and apparel range. It's something that he never imagined possible.

"I never thought that would happen, that thought never really crossed my mind [but] it's very cool and I can't wait for them to start getting sold in Australia," he says.

"It'll be cool to see somebody wearing them up in the local stadium in Maryborough."