Travis Scott Says He's 'So Hurt' About Grammy Snub
Travis Scott Says He's 'So Hurt' About Grammy Snub
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Travis Scott Says He's 'So Hurt' About Grammy Snub  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After the Grammys revealed their nominations on Tuesday (Dec. 6), a bevy of artists like Chance The Rapper, D.R.A.M., and Remy Ma expressed their gratitude for being nominated for the very first time . But for others like rapper Travis Scott , there was some disappointment, after being shut out altogether. Upon hearing the news, vice president of A&R at Epic Records, Sickamore, posted a somber picture of Scott on Instagram with the caption: “reading the grammy nominations like…” The Missouri City MC chimed in under the comments and wrote “So hurt man.”  Earlier this year, Scott released his sophomore studio effort his first No. 1 on the Billboard 200 . (The artist received mixed reviews for his previous endeavor, ) His new album featured marquee names like Kendrick Lamar, Andre 3000 and Kid Cudi, and sold over 80,000 copies in its opening week. reading the grammy nominations like.... A photo posted by sickamore (@sickamore) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Travis Scott performs onstage during the 2016 Budweiser Made in America Festival at Benjamin Franklin Parkway on Sept.Â 4, 2016 in Philadelphia.

After the Grammys revealed their nominations on Tuesday (Dec. 6), a bevy of artists like Chance The Rapper, D.R.A.M., and Remy Ma expressed their gratitude for being nominated for the very first time. But for others like rapper Travis Scott, there was some disappointment, after being shut out altogether.

Upon hearing the news, vice president of A&R at Epic Records, Sickamore, posted a somber picture of Scott on Instagram with the caption: “reading the grammy nominations like…” The Missouri City MC chimed in under the comments and wrote “So hurt man.”

Earlier this year, Scott released his sophomore studio effort Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight, his first No. 1 on the Billboard 200. (The artist received mixed reviews for his previous endeavor, Rodeo.) His new album featured marquee names like Kendrick Lamar, Andre 3000 and Kid Cudi, and sold over 80,000 copies in its opening week.