Madonna says we’re f**ked after Donald Trump’s election win
Madonna says we’re f**ked after Donald Trump’s election win
President Trump protests               President Trump protests       Patrons hold a sign as people march by while protesting the election of Republican Donald Trump as the president of the United States in downtown Los Angeles, California   Reuters        Demonstrators rally following the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators march following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        Thousands of protesters rallied across the United States expressing shock and anger over Donald Trump's election, vowing to oppose divisive views they say helped the Republican billionaire win the presidency   AFP/Getty Images        Demonstrators protest outside the Chicago Theatre in Chicago, Illinois   Getty        A police officer aims a launcher after demonstrators threw projectiles toward a line of officers during a demonstration in Oakland, California   Reuters        An officer examines a vandalized police vehicle as demonstrators riot in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators take over the Hollywood 101 Freeway just north of Los Angeles City Hall in protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        A woman holds up a sign reading 'Trump you are an Idiot' as demonstrators gather during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump outside the City Hall building in Los Angeles, California   EPA        A masked demonstrator gestures toward a police line during a demonstration in Oakland, California   Reuters        Demonstrators protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, near the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Las Vegas, Nevada   Reuters        Musician Lagy Gaga stages a protest against Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on a sanitation truck outside Trump Tower in New York City   Getty        A woman yells as she takes part in a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        A man dressed in red-white-and-blue sits on the curb during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        A protester sets off fireworks during a protest against President-elect Donald Trumpin Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood   AP        University of California, Davis students protest on campus in Davis, California, U.S. following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States   Reuters        An Oakland police officer checks out damage after a window was broken by protesters at a car dealership in downtown Oakland, Calif   AP        A protester faces a police line in downtown Oakland, Calif   AP        President-elect Donald Trumpís victory set off multiple protests   AP        A fire burns during protests in Oakland, Calif   AP  Read more Madonna turned Britney Spears 'Toxic' into an anti-Donald Trump anthem Madonna throws surprise acoustic performance for Hillary Clinton Madonna warns the US: 'The whole world is laughing at us' More about: Madonna Donald Trump US election 2016

Madonna, the pop icon and high-profile Hillary Clinton supporter, is criticizing women who voted for Donald Trump and offering her thoughts on what lies ahead for the country in the weeks following the presidential election.

"[The election] felt like someone died," she told Billboard in an interview published Monday. "[It] felt like a combination of the heartbreak and betrayal you feel when someone you love more than anything leaves you, and also a death. I feel that way every morning; I wake up and say, 'Oh, wait, Donald Trump is still the president,' and it wasn’t a bad dream that I had."

The publication recently named Madonna their “Woman of the Year” admitted that she felt betrayed by female voters who cast their ballot for Trump, who has been accused of committing dozens of incidents of sexual assault.

"It feels like women betrayed us," she continued. "The percentage of women who voted for Trump was insanely high. Women's nature is not to support other women. It's really sad. Men protect each other, and women protect their men and children. Women turn inward and men are more external.

"A lot of it has do with jealousy and some sort of tribal inability to accept that one of their kind could lead a nation," she explained. "Other people just didn't bother to vote because they didn't like either candidate, or they didn't think Trump had a chance in the world. They took their hands off the wheel and then the car crashed."

President Trump protests







20 show all President Trump protests





































1/20 Patrons hold a sign as people march by while protesting the election of Republican Donald Trump as the president of the United States in downtown Los Angeles, California Reuters

2/20 Demonstrators rally following the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, in Oakland, California Reuters

3/20 Demonstrators march following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

4/20 Thousands of protesters rallied across the United States expressing shock and anger over Donald Trump's election, vowing to oppose divisive views they say helped the Republican billionaire win the presidency AFP/Getty Images

5/20 Demonstrators protest outside the Chicago Theatre in Chicago, Illinois Getty

6/20 A police officer aims a launcher after demonstrators threw projectiles toward a line of officers during a demonstration in Oakland, California Reuters

7/20 An officer examines a vandalized police vehicle as demonstrators riot in Oakland, California Reuters

8/20 Demonstrators take over the Hollywood 101 Freeway just north of Los Angeles City Hall in protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

9/20 A woman holds up a sign reading 'Trump you are an Idiot' as demonstrators gather during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump outside the City Hall building in Los Angeles, California EPA

10/20 A masked demonstrator gestures toward a police line during a demonstration in Oakland, California Reuters

11/20 Demonstrators protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, near the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Las Vegas, Nevada Reuters

12/20 Musician Lagy Gaga stages a protest against Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump on a sanitation truck outside Trump Tower in New York City Getty

13/20 A woman yells as she takes part in a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

14/20 A man dressed in red-white-and-blue sits on the curb during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

15/20 A protester sets off fireworks during a protest against President-elect Donald Trumpin Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood AP

16/20 University of California, Davis students protest on campus in Davis, California, U.S. following the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States Reuters

17/20 An Oakland police officer checks out damage after a window was broken by protesters at a car dealership in downtown Oakland, Calif AP

18/20 A protester faces a police line in downtown Oakland, Calif AP

19/20 President-elect Donald Trumpís victory set off multiple protests AP

20/20 A fire burns during protests in Oakland, Calif AP

Madonna also shared the story behind the first time she met the 70-year-old president-elect at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida some odd years ago.

"He's a very friendly guy, ­charismatic in that ­boastful, macho, alpha-male way," she told the publication. "I found his political incorrectness amusing. Of course, I didn't know he was going to be running for ­president 20 years later. People like that exist in the world, I'm OK with it. They just can’t be heads of state. I just can't put him and Barack Obama in the same ­sentence, same room, same job description.”

On the eve of the election, she held an impromptu concert at Washington Square Park urging New Yorkers to vote for Clinton. Earlier in the year, she also jokingly offered oral sex to anyone willing to cast their vote for the former secretary of state.

While speaking to Billboard, she also touched on misogyny and ageism in the entertainment industry. "'Relevance' is a catchphrase that people throw out because we live in a world full of discrimination," she continued. "Age is only brought up with regard to women. It's connected to sexism, chauvinism, and misogyny. When Leonardo [DiCaprio] is 60 years old, no one is going to talk about his relevance. Am I relevant as a female in this society that hates women? Well, to people who are educated and are not chauvinists or ­misogynists, yes."