Israelites in Egypt may have turned hieroglyphs into letters 3,800 years ago
Is this the world’s first alphabet?


The language of the world's first alphabet could have been Hebrew.

This is according to an archaeologist who has spent the past four years piecing together the letters of the alphabet from inscriptions on Egyptian tablets.

In his controversial theory, Dr Douglas Petrovich claims Israelites in Egypt took 22 ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs and turned them into the original Hebrew alphabet - over 3,800 years ago.

The language of the world's first alphabet could have been Hebrew. This is according to an archaeologist who has spent the past four years piecing together the letters of the alphabet. Pictured is the tablet Sinai 375a containing the name Ahisamach (mentioned in Exodus 31:6)

PIECING TOGETHER THE FIRST ALPHABET Because the original Hebrew alphabet was 'acrophonic ' - meaning the naming of letters so that their name begins with the letter itself, and uses no vowels - it leaves a lot of room for ambiguity in the translations. 'Let's say, for the sake of example, that English has no written script,' Dr Petrovich explained. 'And like the ancient Hebrews, you and I are going to invent it...and without vowels.' 'So, we decide that the "boat" pictograph is going to give us the 'b' sound. Every time we want someone to read "b", we draw a boat. 'We then decide that a "door" will give us the "d" sound, since "d" is what comes first in that word. 'When we draw a boat and a door side by side, our reader reads, "bed"or "bad", or "bid", or "bud".'

For years scholars have known the world's oldest alphabet was a Semitic language, but exactly which one it was has remained a mystery.

Dr Petrovich from the Wilfrid Laurier University in Ontario, Canada told MailOnline: 'I have no doubt whatsoever that Hebrew is the world's oldest alphabet'.

He believes Israelites living in Egypt transformed the civilisation’s hieroglyphics into the first version of Hebrew around 3,800 years ago.

This, he says, is around the time the Old Testament describes Jews living in Egypt.

He says it was a way for Hebrew speakers to have their own written expression of their language, just as the Egyptians around them had.

In 2012, Dr Petrovich was conducting research from his home when he found evidence of a tablet called Sinai 115, from 1842 BC.

'What drew me to Sinai 115 in the first place is that I followed an archaeological trail that led me to identify several specific biblical figures in the epigraphical record,' he said.

He claims the word 'Hebrews' was written on the tablet.

His translation was: '6 Levantines: Hebrews of Bethel, the beloved,' which referred to Manasseh himself, his son, and four other Hebrews.

The professor combined earlier identifications of some letters in the ancient alphabet with his own interpretation of disputed letters to create the 'Hebrew 1.0' script.

An electronic drawing of Sinai 375a, which includes the separation of words and identification of proto-consonantal letters with biblical or modern Hebrew letters next to them. Red lines are word-dividers added by Dr Petrovich

Examples of Hebrew letters (left column), and Egyptian heiroglyphs (right column) are shown alongside the first Hebrew alphabet that has been devised by Dr Petrovich (middle column)

WAS THE WORLD'S FIRST ALPHABET HEBREW? In 2012, Dr Petrovich was conducting research at the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, when he found a tablet called Sinai 115, from 1874 BC. These Sinai tablets contain what is widely considered the world's first alphabet, but the language has remained a mystery. 'What drew me to Sinai 115 in the first place is that I followed an archaeological trail that led me to identify several specific biblical figures in the epigraphical record,' he said. On the table Dr Petrovich claims the word 'Hebrews' was written. He used the symbols from the tablet to piece together a rendering of Hebrew script that he took into the field, and used to identify individual letters. Looking at other inscriptions found in Egypt, he came across a number of distinctly Hebrew words, including the naming of three biblical figures - Asenath, Ahisamach and Moses. Evidence for the presence of these Israelites in Egypt has not been discovered before, Dr Petrovich says, and this is one of the main reasons scholars 'mock' the bible. Ahisamach was written on Sinai 375a and Moses was mentioned on Sinai 361. 'There are several distinctively Hebrew words within the corpus of 16 texts that I have translated,' Dr Petrovich told MailOnline.

Looking at other inscriptions found in Egypt, he came across a number of distinctly Hebrew words, including the naming of three biblical figures - Asenath, Ahisamach and Moses.

An inscription, dated to 1834 BC, is translated as 'Wine is more abundant than the daylight, than the baker, than a nobleman.'

This may mean drink was plentiful, but food was hard to come by, suggesting Israelites, likely moved to Egypt during a time of famine.

Evidence for the presence of these Israelites in Egypt has not been discovered before, Dr Petrovich says, and this is one of the main reasons scholars 'mock' the bible.

Biblical figures were mentioned including Ahisamach, whose name was written on Sinai 375a and Moses, who was mentioned on Sinai 361.

Sinai 361 says: 'Our bound servitude had lingered. Moses then provoked astonishment. It is a year of astonishment, because of the Lady.”

The 'Lady' mentioned is the goddess Baalath, who, in Egypt, was equated with the Egyptian goddess Hathor, Dr Petrovich says.

Sinai 351 speaks of the Nile River and how it had swollen to over twice its normal level of inundation after the year had changed.

This catastrophic event caused the cultic shrines and the watering troughs to become unclean, due to contamination from silty river water, Dr Petrovich says.

'There are several distinctively Hebrew words within the corpus of 16 texts that I have translated,' Dr Petrovich told MailOnline.

Putting together a complete alphabet, detailed in a book, which is available from Carta and a Kickstarter page, was no easy task.

Because the original Hebrew alphabet was 'acrophonic ', - meaning the naming of letters so that their name begins with the letter itself, and uses no vowels - it leaves a lot of room for ambiguity in the translations.

'Let's say, for the sake of example, that English has no written script,' Dr Petrovich explained.

'And like the ancient Hebrews, you and I are going to invent it...and without vowels.

'So, we decide that the "boat" pictograph is going to give us the 'b' sound. Every time we want someone to read "b", we draw a boat.

'We then decide that a "door" will give us the "d" sound, since "d" is what comes first in that word.

'When we draw a boat and a door side by side, our reader reads, "bed" or "bad", or "bid", or "bud".'

Another challenge he faced was that many original Hebrew letters never had been identified properly, so Dr Petrovich did all this work himself.

Sinai 351 speaks of the Nile and how it had swollen to over twice its normal level of inundation after the year had changed. This catastrophic event caused the cultic shrines and the watering troughs to become unclean, due to contamination from silty river water, Dr Petrovich says

A photo of Sinai 361, located in the Cairo Museum. This photo contains the name Moses (M-Sh, the two fullest letters on the smaller fragment of the inscription) at the bottom of the first vertical column

An electronic drawing of Sinai 361, which includes the separation of words and identification of proto-consonantal letters with biblical or modern Hebrew letters next to them. Dr Petrovich's translation of Sinai 361 is: 'Our bound servitude had lingered. Moses then provoked astonishment. It is a year of astonishment, because of the Lady.'

WHO WERE MOSES, ASENATH AND AHISAMACH? Artist's impression of Moses, who led the Exodus of the Israelites out of Egypt and across the Red Sea Looking at Sinai 115 other inscriptions found in Egypt, Dr Petronich came across a number of distinctly Hebrew words. These words included the naming of three figures mentioned in the Hebrew Bible : Asenath, Ahisamach and Moses. Asenath was the wife of Joseph. Ahisamach, was the father of Aholiab according to Exodus 31:6, Exodus 35:34, and Exodus 38:23, and his name was mentioned on Sinai 375a. Moses, who led the Exodus of the Israelites out of Egypt and across the Red Sea, according to the Bible, was mentioned on Sinai 361.

'I believe most people accept that, during the 1st millennium BC, Egyptian hieroglyphic signs were adapted to create an alphabet for writing the Meroitic language of East Africa, so the possibility of making such adaptation is not in doubt,' Dr William Manley, from the University of Glasgow, told MailOnline.

The first controversial part of his theory is the dates Dr Petrovich uses for when Israelites were in Egypt.

He goes by Bible dates suggesting the Israelites stayed in Egypt for 430 years, as recorded in Exodus 12:40-41, which is the equivalent of 1876 to 1446 BC.

But some say these Biblical dates are unreliable.

Dr Petrovich, however, argues the Hebrews who created the alphabet can be identified as Joseph’s sons Ephraim and Manasseh, from the Hebrew Bible.

'Two of these figures were born and raised in Egypt, with a father who was 2nd in command in all of Egypt, behind only the Egyptian king himself,' Mr Petrovich told MailOnline.

'Their mother was an Egyptian priestess of no small significance.

'It can and should be extrapolated that they were raised to learn hieroglyphic Egyptian writing.

'It is these two figures who were responsible for converting 22 hieroglyphic signs into the world's first alphabet.'

Dr Petrovich deciphered 16 Hebrew letters from ancient Egyptian tablets. He says Israelites in Egypt turned hieroglyphs into letters over 3,800 years ago. But the theory is controversial as some historians dispute the Israelites' presence in Egypt. Stock image

NOT EVERYONE AGREES The first controversial part of his theory is the dates Dr Petrovich uses for when Israelites were in Egypt. He goes by Bible dates suggesting the Israelites stayed in Egypt for 430 years, as recorded in Exodus 12:40-41, which is the equivalent of 1876 to 1446 BC. But some say these Biblical dates are unreliable. Professor Thomas Schneider, from the University of British Columbia, wrote a blog post outlining his issues with the proposed idea. He says: 'As part of Douglas Petrovich’s proposal that the Early Alphabetic Inscriptions are Hebrew, he has proposed to read a word in one of the Egyptian inscriptions from Serabit el-Khadem as the word for “Hebrew.” 'This, however, is just not correct.' Professor Schneider adds that the correct reading is in two lines while Dr Petrovich combines them into one.

This is not the first time an archaeologist has claimed Hebrew was the first alphabet – in the 1920s a German scholar named Hubert Grimme identified some of the inscriptions as Hebrew.

'Unfortunately for him, not enough was known about the proto-consonantal alphabet for him to be certain in his identification of all of the letters in the alphabet, and he was inaccurate on some of his identifications,' Dr Petrovich says.

Because of his incorrect identifications, his work was dismissed by historians.

But Dr Petrovich hopes his theory will be met with a better reaction.

'With Grimme's occasional wrong choice of letter and his mis-drawing of pictographs, he often made wild identifications of words and meanings of complete inscriptions,' Dr Petrovich said.

'This led to scholarly ridicule and, more or less, his being ostracised by the academy.

'They will attempt to do the same to me. Rest assured of that.'

Other researchers have already challenged the theory.

Professor Thomas Schneider, from the University of British Columbia, wrote a blog post outlining his issues with the proposed idea.

He says: 'as part of Douglas Petrovich’s proposal that the Early Alphabetic Inscriptions are Hebrew, he has proposed to read a word in one of the Egyptian inscriptions from Serabit el-Khadem as the word for “Hebrew.”

'This, however, is just not correct.'