29 Gifts That Even The Most Heartless People Would Adore
29 Gifts That Even The Most Heartless People Would Adore
Pillow rolls to supplement your love for corgis and kittens. Get them from ThinkGeek for $20.  Marshmallow mugs that don’t need a fire to melt your heart. Get them from Amazon for $37. A happy hedgehog to keep your brushes nice and clean. Get it from Amazon for $7.  Sushi  pillows that would do anything to be squeezed. Get the pillow on the left from Amazon for $47 and the one on the right for $18. Tiny animal erasers that are almost too cute to use. Get them from Amazon for $6.  String lights that really illuminate your love for cats. Get them from Forever 21 for $15.  Slippers that like to purr at your feet. Get them from ThinkGeek for $25.  3D printed Bulbasaur planters that carry baby succulents on their backs. Get them from Succulent Monsters on Etsy for $19.  Shark socks that just want to gently chew on your toes. Get them from Forever 21 for $2. A Totoro plush that’ll patiently await your return home from work everyday. Get it from Amazon for $57.  Raccoon panties that are anything but trash pandas. Get them from Knickerocker on Etsy for $48. A piglet that’s squealing in anticipation of charging your devices. Get it from Amazon for $26. A few confused cats that live on sushi roll keychains. Get them from Urban Outfitters for $8. A stegosaurus wallet that wants to be your favorite herbivore. Get it from ModCloth for $30. A Babushka Russian doll lamp that’s so pleased to light up your room. Get it from Plastic Land for $48. A Tina Belcher pop vinyl figure that just wants to charm you and all your friends. Get it from Amazon for $8. A lion pin to make you feel cute and courageous. Get it from Mochichito on Etsy for $10. A timid kitten that just wants to protect your luggage. Get it from Forever 21 for $4. A comely cow that poops out toothpicks. Get it from Amazon for $13. A Totoro water bottle that’s happy to roll with you. Get it from Amazon for $15. These smiling planets that can’t wait to adorn your phone. Get it from Forever 21 for $7.  Darling food staplers to cheer up your workspace. Get them from Caribou Milk on Etsy for $8.  Sleepy kittens that love to play around with your chopsticks. Get them from Amazon for $13. A panda rug that’s patting its food belly in perpetuity. Get it from Peanut Butter Dynamite on Etsy for $80. Elephant salt and pepper shakers that greet you with happy trunks. Get them from Amazon for $37. A hedgehog lamp that will always welcome you with a warm, fuzzy smile. Get it from Mochi Things for $26. A heated herbal warmer that’s destined to cuddle with you. Get it from Amazon for $24. A pair of milk and cookies socks to remind you of your favorite snack. Get them from Forever 21 for $2. And an otter that makes the world better, one hug at a time. Get it from The Huggable Hoots on Etsy for $45. Want more? Check out all of our 2016 gift guides here . Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.