The rise of Live Nation and the fear of an emerging music monopoly

The rise of Live Nation and the fear of an emerging music monopoly Live Nation, the world’s largest events promoter, and the owner of the world’s largest ticketing company, has bought a controlling stake in two of Australia’s largest music festivals — Splendour and Falls. The sale announced on Monday is part of a worldwide trend of multinationals buying independent music festivals. Live Nation, which reported revenue of more than US$7bn last year, owns more than 60 festivals. Its main competitor, AEG Live, owns about 30. Splendour in the Grass and Falls Festival are the first two independent festivals Live Nation has bought in Australia, and it comes after it bought the famous The Palais venue in St Kilda. The sale also comes at a time of flux in the Australian festival scene, with four big music festivals announcing their collapse or hiatus, and live entertainment revenues down. Fewer tickets were sold in Australia last year than the year before. Promoters say punters have grown used to seeing big acts tour Down Under and have become harder to impress. has spoken with promoters, ticketing companies, and the operators of Splendour and Falls to find out what the Live Nation deal means for two of Australia’s most beloved festivals. Ticketing For years, Splendour in the Grass — held in Byron Bay, with about 30,000 people — has offered a ticket resale facility to cut down on tickets being bought in order to be resold at a profit (ticket scalping). Live Nation owns Ticketmaster, which runs Ticketmaster Resale (TM+) — a site where you can buy second-hand tickets. TM+ and other sites like Viagogo have been attacked as “sanctioned scalping”. The obvious question has been: will the Live Nation deal compromise Splendour’s stand against ticket scalping? The answer, according to Splendour organisers, is “no”. Jess Ducrou, managing director of Secret Sounds, which operates Splendour and Falls, said the Splendour resale facility will remain and Ticketmaster will not be doing the ticketing. “The resale facility of Splendour will 100 per cent continue,” she said. “That’s incredibly important.” “Ticketmaster per se is not going to be the company selling tickets for Splendour or Falls Festival for that matter. It will be through an arm of their business — a different ticketing platform.” Brian Chladil, CEO of OzTix, which has sold tickets to Falls Festival for the last seven years, said he expected to lose the ticketing contract, and he also expected ticket prices would go up. Ticketmaster is the second largest ticketing company in Australia, behind Ticketek. “This whole Live Nation vertically integrated model — the consumer just ends up paying more,” he said. “It’s a fact Ticketmaster charge more than we do. They have a transaction charge and we don’t.” Lineup diversity Falls Festival is held simultaneously in NSW, Victoria, Tasmania and WA over New Years, with about 15,000 at each of the four sites. “Vertical integration” is about a company owning multiple stages of production. Live Nation has unprecedented vertical integration. In theory, the shareholder-owned company could make money from almost every aspect of a performance — promote an artist, sell tickets to their shows, and own the venue and the festival where they perform. The fear is that Live Nation will be able to shut out rival promoters by refusing access to venues and festivals. It would effectively be a monopoly. “Ultimately, what worries me is the conglomeration of the music business,” Brian said. “It’s been going on for a few years. It just gets worse and worse. In response, Jess Ducrou said she and Secret Sounds have been able to negotiate creative control of Splendour and Falls, despite no longer having a controlling stake in their business. The full details of the sale including the price are not public, though we know it excludes Secret Sound’s record label and ownership of a couple of the festival sites. Jess said she trusted Live Nation. “Paul [Piticco] and I will be booking the lineup like we always book the lineup — there’s no pressure to put on more commercial artists because of their touring arm. They’re partnering with us to do what we do.” “We feel confident we will be able to maintain the integrity of Splendour and Falls.” AJ Maddah, the music promoter who founded Soundwave and saw it become one of Australia’s most popular festivals, only to go broke and collapse late last year , said there was a chance Splendour and Falls may book fewer independent artists — it all depends on who has control. “As long as Jess remains booking it, I don’t think the nature of the artist will change too much,” he said. “Falls and Splendour have been know for patronage of independent promoters who get an opportunity to book their acts on the festival. I feel that will probably change going forward.” To conclude: we don’t know what will happen to Splendour and Falls. Chances are the festivals won’t change too much in the short-term. Independent promoters But independent promoters may have more to worry about. When Live Nation bought St Kilda’s The Palais back in May, promoter Michael Chugg sounded the alarm . He said Live Nation in the US had established a “monopoly and they are wiping out other operators”. Chugg, who has been in the industry for 50 years and has toured Coldplay, Radiohead, Florence + The Machine, and other huge bands, on Monday told that Live Nation wanted to force him out. “They would like to see me and Michael Gudinski out of business,” he said. “It’s no secret that’s been said at boardroom meetings in New York and LA.” Michael Gudinski, founder of Mushroom Group, and one of the most powerful figures in Australian music, was not available for comment. “There’s a lot of loyalty in this business,” Michael Chugg said. “I have a lot of loyal artists who come back to us continually. They go out of their way and offer huge money to artists and cut out the indie promoters and local promoters. I would not try and steal an act off them or Michael Gudinksi. It’s just not the way you do business. Only the really big independent promoters are affected by Live Nation, and the arrival of the US corporation isn’t necessarily bad for the diversity of Australian music. Big promoters tour the big bands. Smaller, up-and-coming bands get smaller promoters. Promoter Frazer Bourke from Metropolis Touring has two full-time staff. He said Live Nation was in a different “stratosphere”. “There’s no shortage of bands and there’s no shortage of promoters,” Frazer said. “When we go for some of our tours in the metal market, there’s two or three other promoters in that space. The agent can sit back and just wait and not reply to anyone’s emails.” He said the biggest threat to the Australian music scene wasn’t ticketing, or vertical integration, or a lack of competition between promoters. It was simply a lack of punters. Promoters were finding it hard to sell tickets to punters who have become “blase and numb” to international tours. Tickets sold best in “packages”: festivals. What is Live Nation? Live Nation arrived in Australia in 2010, though it only became a force two years later, when it acquired one of the largest touring companies in the world, Michael Coppel Presents. Michael Coppel became the managing director of the Australasian subsidiary of Live Nation. Its rise has come with the decline of the recording industry. Bands are making less from music sales, and relying more on the money they make touring. Fans aren’t buying music, but they are buying tickets. After the effects of the 2008 financial crisis wore off, the concert industry boomed. In 2013, Live Nation shares went up 47 per cent. At the same time, the Australian dollar dropped against the US dollar, and the cost of booking international acts went up. Bands were demanding to be paid in US dollars, and fans were buying tickets in Australian dollars. As a result, the cost of tickets went up. Some festivals went under. The fluctuating exchange rate underlined the financial risk of putting on a music festival, and this risk only worsened as the festivals grew bigger and took on more overheads. One bad year, and a festival could be gone forever. One by one, the big touring festivals collapsed under their own weight. Live Nation saw an opportunity, Australia correspondent, Lars Brandle, told . “Australia is going through an incredible state of flux,” he said. “We’ve lost four of the great festivals — Big Day Out, Soundwave, Future Music Festival and Stereosonic. That’s millions of tickets out of the business. And with that, there’s a lot of opportunity. He said punters shouldn’t be too worried about Splendour or Falls changing what has been a successful model. Live Nation has lost money in Australia investing in big touring festivals. The money is in smaller ‘boutique’ festivals, where you go for the experience, and not only for the lineup. “They don’t have to concern themselves they would be forced to eat some kind of McDonalds cheeseburger when they walk through the gate,” Lars said. He suggested Splendour and Falls could see more international acts. “Live Nation has incredible international muscle.” “The company can organise tours through its international pipeline. When a Coldplay comes out here, Live Nation has the global clout to stage each leg of that tour, one territory at a time.” ABC News Long reads, analysis and behind-the-scenes stories from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and selected contributors. ABC News Australia Long reads, analysis and behind-the-scenes articles from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and selected contributors.

The Suffa MC from Hilltop Hoods revs up the crowd at Splendour in the Grass, 2014. Picture: Dan Peled/AAP

The rise of Live Nation and the fear of an emerging music monopoly By James Purtill for Triple J Hack Live Nation, the world’s largest events promoter, and the owner of the world’s largest ticketing company, has bought a controlling stake in two of Australia’s largest music festivals — Splendour and Falls. The sale announced on Monday is part of a worldwide trend of multinationals buying independent music festivals. Live Nation, which reported revenue of more than US$7bn last year, owns more than 60 festivals. Its main competitor, AEG Live, owns about 30. Splendour in the Grass and Falls Festival are the first two independent festivals Live Nation has bought in Australia, and it comes after it bought the famous The Palais venue in St Kilda. The sale also comes at a time of flux in the Australian festival scene, with four big music festivals announcing their collapse or hiatus, and live entertainment revenues down. Fewer tickets were sold in Australia last year than the year before. Promoters say punters have grown used to seeing big acts tour Down Under and have become harder to impress. Hack has spoken with promoters, ticketing companies, and the operators of Splendour and Falls to find out what the Live Nation deal means for two of Australia’s most beloved festivals. Ticketing For years, Splendour in the Grass — held in Byron Bay, with about 30,000 people — has offered a ticket resale facility to cut down on tickets being bought in order to be resold at a profit (ticket scalping). Live Nation owns Ticketmaster, which runs Ticketmaster Resale (TM+) — a site where you can buy second-hand tickets. TM+ and other sites like Viagogo have been attacked as “sanctioned scalping”. The Rubens at Splendour in 2015. Picture: Thuy Ong The obvious question has been: will the Live Nation deal compromise Splendour’s stand against ticket scalping? The answer, according to Splendour organisers, is “no”. Jess Ducrou, managing director of Secret Sounds, which operates Splendour and Falls, said the Splendour resale facility will remain and Ticketmaster will not be doing the ticketing. “The resale facility of Splendour will 100 per cent continue,” she said. “That’s incredibly important.” “Ticketmaster per se is not going to be the company selling tickets for Splendour or Falls Festival for that matter. It will be through an arm of their business — a different ticketing platform.” Brian Chladil, CEO of OzTix, which has sold tickets to Falls Festival for the last seven years, said he expected to lose the ticketing contract, and he also expected ticket prices would go up. Ticketmaster is the second largest ticketing company in Australia, behind Ticketek. “This whole Live Nation vertically integrated model — the consumer just ends up paying more,” he said. “It’s a fact Ticketmaster charge more than we do. They have a transaction charge and we don’t.”

Angus and Julia Stone perform at Splendour in 2014. Picture: Dan Peled/AAP

Lineup diversity Falls Festival is held simultaneously in NSW, Victoria, Tasmania and WA over New Years, with about 15,000 at each of the four sites. “Vertical integration” is about a company owning multiple stages of production. Live Nation has unprecedented vertical integration. In theory, the shareholder-owned company could make money from almost every aspect of a performance — promote an artist, sell tickets to their shows, and own the venue and the festival where they perform. The fear is that Live Nation will be able to shut out rival promoters by refusing access to venues and festivals. It would effectively be a monopoly. “Ultimately, what worries me is the conglomeration of the music business,” Brian said. “It’s been going on for a few years. It just gets worse and worse. “More and more companies are being bought up by the likes of Live Nation — it ends up like Coles and Woolies.” In response, Jess Ducrou said she and Secret Sounds have been able to negotiate creative control of Splendour and Falls, despite no longer having a controlling stake in their business. The full details of the sale including the price are not public, though we know it excludes Secret Sound’s record label and ownership of a couple of the festival sites. Jess said she trusted Live Nation. “Paul [Piticco] and I will be booking the lineup like we always book the lineup — there’s no pressure to put on more commercial artists because of their touring arm. They’re partnering with us to do what we do.” “We feel confident we will be able to maintain the integrity of Splendour and Falls.” AJ Maddah, the music promoter who founded Soundwave and saw it become one of Australia’s most popular festivals, only to go broke and collapse late last year, said there was a chance Splendour and Falls may book fewer independent artists — it all depends on who has control. “As long as Jess remains booking it, I don’t think the nature of the artist will change too much,” he said. “Falls and Splendour have been know for patronage of independent promoters who get an opportunity to book their acts on the festival. I feel that will probably change going forward.” To conclude: we don’t know what will happen to Splendour and Falls. Chances are the festivals won’t change too much in the short-term.

Fans enjoying the music at the 2016 Falls Festival. Picture: Margaret Burin

Independent promoters But independent promoters may have more to worry about. When Live Nation bought St Kilda’s The Palais back in May, promoter Michael Chugg sounded the alarm. He said Live Nation in the US had established a “monopoly and they are wiping out other operators”. Chugg, who has been in the industry for 50 years and has toured Coldplay, Radiohead, Florence + The Machine, and other huge bands, on Monday told Hack that Live Nation wanted to force him out. “They would like to see me and Michael Gudinski out of business,” he said. “It’s no secret that’s been said at boardroom meetings in New York and LA.” Michael Gudinski, founder of Mushroom Group, and one of the most powerful figures in Australian music, was not available for comment. “There’s a lot of loyalty in this business,” Michael Chugg said. “I have a lot of loyal artists who come back to us continually. They go out of their way and offer huge money to artists and cut out the indie promoters and local promoters. I would not try and steal an act off them or Michael Gudinksi. It’s just not the way you do business. “I don’t like the Live Nation model. They pay too much for acts and they don’t worry about losing money.” Only the really big independent promoters are affected by Live Nation, and the arrival of the US corporation isn’t necessarily bad for the diversity of Australian music. Big promoters tour the big bands. Smaller, up-and-coming bands get smaller promoters. Promoter Frazer Bourke from Metropolis Touring has two full-time staff. He said Live Nation was in a different “stratosphere”. “There’s no shortage of bands and there’s no shortage of promoters,” Frazer said. “When we go for some of our tours in the metal market, there’s two or three other promoters in that space. The agent can sit back and just wait and not reply to anyone’s emails.” He said the biggest threat to the Australian music scene wasn’t ticketing, or vertical integration, or a lack of competition between promoters. It was simply a lack of punters. Promoters were finding it hard to sell tickets to punters who have become “blase and numb” to international tours. Tickets sold best in “packages”: festivals.

Peking Duck perform at the 2016 Falls Festival. Picture: Samantha Turnbull