NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio: Residents Shouldn't Be 'On the Hook' for Trump Security
NYC mayor says Congress owes taxpayers for protecting Trump
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio lashed out at Congress Wednesday, angered by the decision to partially reimburse the city for the estimated $35 million spent to protect President-elect Donald Trump and his family at his eponymous 5th Avenue skyscraper. Congress released details of its spending bill Wednesday, which will provide funding for the government through April. The proposed bill only earmarks $7 million in federal reimbursement for expenses incurred by the New York City Police Department to protect Trump. The House is scheduled to vote on the bill on Thursday. The Senate is expected to vote on it by the end of the week. But in a statement on Twitter, the mayor's office said the bill only refunds 20 percent of the estimated cost, adding the decision places an undue burden on New York's taxpayers. "New York City taxpayers should not be on the hook for 80 percent of the national bill to protect our President-elect and his family's residence," the statement read. "This is a national responsibility and the burden cannot fall alone on our city and police department." @NYCMayor statement on Trump Tower security costs: pic.twitter.com/cG2poBdhGS On Monday, de Blasio sent letters to Congress and the White House requesting that the city's taxpayers be reimbursed $35 million for the cost of providing protection to Trump and his family between Election Day and inauguration in January. The New York City Police Department (NYPD) estimates it costs $1 million per day to provide external security at Trump Tower, the president-elect's Manhattan residence. Today I’m sending letters to the White House and Congress to request reimbursement for the NYPD’s role in protecting Trump Tower. pic.twitter.com/hxfZBTl4Fq "The expense associated with protecting him in the midst of a dense city that is home to 8.55 million residents is logistically complex and requires a significant commitment of resources," de Blasio wrote in Monday's letter.   He added: "Accordingly, New York City respectfully requests that the Administration assist our efforts seeking reimbursement for funds that have been expended to date, and will be spent on or before the inauguration."

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio lashed out at Congress Wednesday, angered by the decision to partially reimburse the city for the estimated $35 million spent to protect President-elect Donald Trump and his family at his eponymous 5th Avenue skyscraper.

Congress released details of its spending bill Wednesday, which will provide funding for the government through April. The proposed bill only earmarks $7 million in federal reimbursement for expenses incurred by the New York City Police Department to protect Trump.

New York Police Department (NYPD) officers guard the main entrance of the Trump Tower, where US President-elect Donald Trump holds meetings, in New York, on Nov. 14, 2016. JEWEL SAMAD / AFP - Getty Images

The House is scheduled to vote on the bill on Thursday. The Senate is expected to vote on it by the end of the week.

But in a statement on Twitter, the mayor's office said the bill only refunds 20 percent of the estimated cost, adding the decision places an undue burden on New York's taxpayers.

"New York City taxpayers should not be on the hook for 80 percent of the national bill to protect our President-elect and his family's residence," the statement read. "This is a national responsibility and the burden cannot fall alone on our city and police department."

On Monday, de Blasio sent letters to Congress and the White House requesting that the city's taxpayers be reimbursed $35 million for the cost of providing protection to Trump and his family between Election Day and inauguration in January.

The New York City Police Department (NYPD) estimates it costs $1 million per day to provide external security at Trump Tower, the president-elect's Manhattan residence.

Today I’m sending letters to the White House and Congress to request reimbursement for the NYPD’s role in protecting Trump Tower. pic.twitter.com/hxfZBTl4Fq — Bill de Blasio (@NYCMayor) December 5, 2016

"The expense associated with protecting him in the midst of a dense city that is home to 8.55 million residents is logistically complex and requires a significant commitment of resources," de Blasio wrote in Monday's letter.

Related: Defense Secretary Waiver Included in Crucial House Funding Bill

He added: "Accordingly, New York City respectfully requests that the Administration assist our efforts seeking reimbursement for funds that have been expended to date, and will be spent on or before the inauguration."