Pittsburgh Steeler Le'Veon Bell (A.K.A. Juice) Unleashes New Rap Cut 'Get Wit It': Premiere
Pittsburgh Steeler Le'Veon Bell (A.K.A. Juice) Unleashes New Rap Cut 'Get Wit It': Premiere
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Pittsburgh Steeler Le'Veon Bell (A.K.A. Juice) Unleashes New Rap Cut 'Get Wit It': Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Like his game on the field, Pittsburgh Steeler Le'Veon Bell isn't taking his rap career lightly. Dropping bars under the name Juice, the star running back hailing from Ohio brushes off his haters with a hypnotic new rap cut "Get Wit It." "I felt when I was recording this song, I was in a mindset to where if people can't accept the things I do for a living, they don't accept me for who I am," he tells over e-mail. "If they can't get with it, I cannot get wit it, that's kinda where it came from...from fans, women, friends, etc." On top of the menacing beat, Juice boasts, "I be makin' millions, I know they feel it," before taking aim at haters, "If they can't get wit it, who cares about what they feelin'?"  Bell recently spoke with s podcast shortly after releasing his EP last month and teased that a proper album was on the way. "I make a lotta songs -- I got like 50 songs on my laptop so I wanted to give people something and then get ready for my actual album when the season's over and we win the Super Bowl," he laughed. Spin "Get Wit It" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Le'Veon Bell of the Pittsburgh Steelers smiles as he looks on from the sideline during a preseason game against the Buffalo Bills at Heinz Field on Aug.Â 16, 2014 in Pittsburgh, Penn.

Like his game on the field, Pittsburgh Steeler Le'Veon Bell isn't taking his rap career lightly. Dropping bars under the name Juice, the star running back hailing from Ohio brushes off his haters with a hypnotic new rap cut "Get Wit It."

"I felt when I was recording this song, I was in a mindset to where if people can't accept the things I do for a living, they don't accept me for who I am," he tells Billboard over e-mail. "If they can't get with it, I cannot get wit it, that's kinda where it came from...from fans, women, friends, etc."

On top of the menacing beat, Juice boasts, "I be makin' millions, I know they feel it," before taking aim at haters, "If they can't get wit it, who cares about what they feelin'?"

Bell recently spoke with Billboard's Ballin' Out podcast shortly after releasing his Until The Post Interview EP last month and teased that a proper album was on the way. "I make a lotta songs -- I got like 50 songs on my laptop so I wanted to give people something and then get ready for my actual album when the season's over and we win the Super Bowl," he laughed.

Spin "Get Wit It" below.