Tricky puzzle challenges players to find hidden hog in forest of birds
How quickly can you spot the pig?


identical so he is difficult to seek out

The latest puzzle to leave Internet users scratching their heads asks the web to seek out a pig hidden in the woods.

The brainteaser developed by Playbuzz sees the pesky pig hidden among a flock of birds in a forest.

While pigs and birds may seem easy to differentiate from each other only eagle eyed viewers will be able to spot the hog in the picture.

Scroll down for reveal

The latest brainteaser sweeping the web asks users to spot the pig hidden among a flock of birds in a forest

Those with good vision and a decent amount of patience will be able to find the pig in the bottom left hand corner hiding under a green bird in a brown hat.

A similar brainteaser sweeping the web this week includes lots of giraffes and one sneaky snake.

The puzzle is also by Playbuzz and asks you to see how quickly you can spot the reptile which is the same colour as the giraffes.

It might sound like an easy task but this snake is better at hiding than you might think.

Only eagle eyed players will be able to spot the pesky pig hidden under the green bird in the left hand corner

It might sound like an easy task but this snake is better at hiding than you might think

The sneaky snake is hiding on the right-hand side of the image

Another brainteaser sweeping the web is bound to make your eyes boggle.

Internet users are well and truly flummoxed after being challenged to spot the letter b among the d's in an increasingly difficult series of levels.

With the lowercase letters looking almost identical to each other, the b is deceptively tricky to spot - and the makers at Playbuzz claim you have to be not only extremely patient but have a high IQ in order to succeed.

Can you spot it? The letter b is cleverly concealed among rows of near-identical letter d's

For each level, there are three boxes filled with several rows of the letter d, with just one of them containing a rogue b.

But beware - on each level there are more b's than before, making the odd letter out increasingly difficult to spot. And confusingly, not every box contains the same number of characters.

On level one there are just 12 letters in each box, making the task relatively simple. But by the eighth and final level, there are more than 150 characters to choose from.

So can YOU solve it? Scroll down to find out.

1.

Level one is the easiest with just 15 letters to choose from in each box - so can you spot the b?

There it is! The letter b is relatively easy to spot in the middle of the central box

2.

Getting harder... The number of letters in each box increases slightly with each level

Did you spot it? The letter b is in the box on the right, bottom row, second from the right

3.

Each level features more letters making it more and more difficult to spot the hiddent letter b

So did you find it? The rogue b is in the box in the centre, second row from the bottom

4.

By level 4 (pictured) users began to complain their eyes were 'dizzy' - so can you spot the b?

There it is! The difficult-to-spot letter b is hidden in the box in the middle, second from the top

The puzzle, posted online, has racked up hundreds of likes and comments and left the internet well and truly baffled with one user claiming it had made his eyes 'go dizzy' while another admitted it had given him a headache.

But it is just the latest puzzle to baffle the web; last week, the internet was bamboozled by a festive brainteaser in the form of a fiendish elf hiding in a snow-capped evergreen forest.

Santa's little helper is nestled among the more than 150 firs, proving that elves can be just as good as Santa when it comes to sneaking around at night.

5.

Spotted it yet? The more letters there are to choose from the smaller the characters get

Found it! In this level, the letter b is in the first box, second left, third row from the top

6.

Getting smaller: With three boxes and more than 15 columns in each box it's harder to locate

Did you spot it? The letter b is hidden right in the middle of the central box, third from bottom

7.

By level 7, there are more characters to choose from with the letters getting smaller then ever

Found it! The odd one out is in the last box, third row down, second column from the right

8.

There are more than 150 characters to choose from on the eighth and final level

So did you find it? Look closely in the middle box and you'll see the b second row from bottom

There are a number of confusing elements to the puzzle, like a golden mountain trail that draws your eye away from Santa’s little helper, and the tree tops which are the exact same colour as his hat.

With the nation well and truly in the Christmas spirit now that December is upon us, Eco2Greetings came up with the eye-boggling brain teaser to remind shoppers that wrapping paper and cards can be recycled over the festive season. So have you spotted him yet?

Scroll down for reveal

The latest festive brainteaser to baffle the internet sees a fiendish elf hiding among a snow-capped evergreen forest under a starry night sky - and he's proving tricky to spot

There he is! Santa's little helper is nestled among the more than 150 firs is proving elves are just as good as Santa when it comes to being sneaky at night

The elf is located towards the bottom right of the image, cleverly concealed between two firs in a camouflaged green hat.

Last week a Christmas movie puzzle was infuriating internet users as they were asked to spot 25 iconic festive films, one for every day of advent, in just one picture.

The festive scene is hiding some of the world's best loves Christmas flicks including the vintage favourites and modern classics.

Devised by money saving site MagicFreebiesUK movies include Ghostbusters 2, Elf, Bad Santa, The Grinch, Trading Places, and many more.

While iconic characters such as Home Alone's Kevin McCallister and Buddy the elf can easily be spotted in the foreground of the image other films will need a closer inspection to uncover.

A Christmas puzzle from MagicFreebiesUK, which went viral last week, challenged internet users to find all 25 festive film references in this picture - but can you find them?

Eagle eyed viewers will be able to spot Love Actually's Billy Mack accompanied by his sexy Santa band mates on the billboard advertising his new single.

And Aardman's Arthur Christmas also makes a subtle appearance leaning from the window of the building on the right.

Only superfans will be able to spot the It's a Wonderful Life reference which comes in the form of the stars and galaxies in the sky - paying tribute to George Bailey's guardian angel.

The reference to Edward Scissorhands is, again, not immediately obvious with the only hint coming in the form of an ice sculpture.

The movies include Love Actually, Polar Express, Gremlins, Arthur Christmas, Ghostbusters 2, Elf, Bad Santa, The Grinch, Trading Places, and many more - so how many can you spot?

Some of the movies such as Home Alone and Elf are easy enough to spot - but only super fans will be able to pick out It's a Wonderful Life, Gremlins and Edward Scissorhands

The holidays are coming and what better way to get in the festive spirit than with an eye-boggling Christmas-themed brain teaser? This puzzle challenges users to spot the robin

Robin reveal: The little red-breasted robin is hidden on the left towards the middle of the page, but is fiendishly difficult to locate thanks to its eyes being identical to its reindeer friends

This is not the first festive puzzle to emerge this year with an eye-boggling Christmas brainteaser doing the rounds earlier this month.

In a group of reindeer users are asked to spot a little red-breasted robin perched on one of their backs. He’s sitting snug, staring straight at you while you're trying to figure out exactly where he is.

This latest brainteaser from Focus will really test your eyes and see whether you can see the difference between the robin and the reindeer.

The red noses of the reindeers camouflage the robin’s red-breast perfectly.

This seemingly impossible puzzle has a bucket and spade hiding among a sea of winter clothes but can YOU spot it? The jumper necklines look remarkable similar to the bucket handle

There it is! The bucket and spade are the same colour as the other items in the image, making them very tricky to spot. However eagle-eyed viewers have located them at the top right

There are a number of confusing elements to the puzzle, such as reindeers with patterned horns, red and yellow scarves and Santa hats which draw your eye away from the Robin.

Another winter themed brainteaser shows rows and rows of knitted jumpers, hats and scarves - but hidden between them is a bucket and spade, which internet users are struggling to spot.

The bucket and spade are exactly the same colour as the other items in the image, making them very tricky to find.