Shaving Your Nether Regions Could Increase The Risk Of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Says New Study
Shaving Your Nether Regions Can Increase The Risk Of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Says Study
Shaving Your Nether Regions Could Increase The Risk Of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Says New Study There is a reason we have so much hair in the pubic area. No doubt it feels clean after removing it but it can actually land you in a fair bit of trouble. People who wax and trim pubic hair are more prone to getting sexually-transmitted infections (STIs), by as much as 80%, a study suggested on Tuesday. A survey of more than 7,500 Americans aged 18 to 65, found that pubic groomers had an 80% higher STI risk than people who leave their nether regions hairy. For certain infections, including herpes and chlamydia, the risk was highest among those who groomed most frequently and “intensely”, the researchers found. The study merely observed a correlation between grooming and STIs, and cannot conclude that one causes the other. But the authors speculated that shaving or waxing may cause “microtears” in the skin, creating easy access for viruses. Sharing tools such as razors may also be a risk, the study said, citing a case of HIV transmission between brothers using the same blade.

There is a reason we have so much hair in the pubic area. No doubt it feels clean after removing it but it can actually land you in a fair bit of trouble. People who wax and trim pubic hair are more prone to getting sexually-transmitted infections (STIs), by as much as 80%, a study suggested on Tuesday.

inglob.co

A survey of more than 7,500 Americans aged 18 to 65, found that pubic groomers had an 80% higher STI risk than people who leave their nether regions hairy. For certain infections, including herpes and chlamydia, the risk was highest among those who groomed most frequently and “intensely”, the researchers found.

steptohealth.com

The study merely observed a correlation between grooming and STIs, and cannot conclude that one causes the other. But the authors speculated that shaving or waxing may cause “microtears” in the skin, creating easy access for viruses.

Sharing tools such as razors may also be a risk, the study said, citing a case of HIV transmission between brothers using the same blade.