Escaped South Carolina Inmate Captured by Police
Escaped South Carolina Inmate Captured by Police 
Shares               An inmate serving a life sentence in a South Carolina prison who escaped from custody Wednesday night has been captured, according to police. The inmate, identified as 47-year-old Michael Alan Williamson, escaped from the McCormick Correctional Institution, a medium/maximum level prison in McCormick, South Carolina, at approximately 8:50 p.m. local time. Williamson is believed to have then traveled dozens of miles to Columbia, the state capital, where he allegedly stabbed a female police officer who was responding to a shoplifting call at a Walmart just before 10 p.m., authorities said. Police said the officer, whose name has not been released, was transported to a local hospital. She was treated for two stab wounds to her left arm and shoulder. She is in stable condition and is expected to recover, police said. “She’s ready to get back in the fight,” said Columbia Police Chief William “Skip” Holbrook. Williamson was captured Thursday morning before 11 a.m. local time on Sunset Boulevard in the town of Lexington, according to the Columbia Police Department. A parent at a middle school in Lexington notified the school resource officer that she had seen a "suspicious male" dressed in black and wearing a mask walking on a nearby street, according to the Lexington Police Department. After the school resource officer notified police, a responding officer saw the man walking in the roadway and asked him to remove his black mask. When he did, the officer recognized him as Williamson, who then fled into the woods. Police eventually captured Williamson and took him into custody after he attempted to enter another school in town. Lexington Police Chief Terrence Green commended the witness who alerted the school resource officer to Williamson. "I am pleased that our officers were able to arrest this dangerous felon and bring to a close the extensive search that had been going on since last night," Green said. "For our citizens, this also highlights the importance that when you see someone or something that just doesn’t look right, please call the police. Like in today’s arrest, it can make all the difference.” Holbrook thanked law enforcement partners for assisting in the hours-long manhunt. “They didn’t hesitate,” he said at a press conference. Authorities said Williamson will not return to the McCormick facility.  Suspect Williamson was found before 11:00 a.m. at 4300 block of Sunset Blvd. SCDC Director says Williamson will not go back to McCormick. pic.twitter.com/iN1mjcgwKr  Authorities concluded that the escaped inmate and the suspect in the assault on the officer are the same person. “In working with Columbia law enforcement officials, it was determined that inmate Williamson is a suspect in a shoplifting incident and assault on a Columbia police officer at a Walmart on Bush River Road on Wednesday night,” South Carolina Department of Corrections representative Sommer Sharpe told ABC News. According to correctional records, Williamson was sentenced to life in prison in 1998 for armed robbery and was also convicted in 1997 of assault and battery with intent to kill. His prison records also show several disciplinary actions for use or possession of unauthorized drugs, smuggling of contraband and other infractions.  Shares                  Escaped South Carolina Inmate Captured by Police   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night   2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizza Parlor Expected in Court   Lufthansa Flight Diverted to NY After Threat: Officials   Google, Cuba Sign Deal Allowing Faster Access to Company's Data   Propane Gas Leak Being Considered in NY Home Explosion   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Suspect in Egypt Chapel Bombing Had 2014 Run-in With Police   Pro-Kurd Party Members Arrested in Wake of Istanbul Bombings   6 Months Later, 49 Killed at Pulse Are Remembered in Orlando   David Beckham Is 'Very Proud' to Be UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador   Boy Dies in Santa's Arms After Receiving Early Christmas Present   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Timeline of Russia's Hacking Into US Political Groups Before Election   Russia: Hacking Allegations Have 'Nothing to Do With Reality'   Inside Rex Tillerson's Business Dealings in Russia   Everything You Need to Know About Trump's Expected Pick for Deputy Secretary of State   Everything You Need to Know About Trump's Pick to Head Homeland Security   2 Univ. of Louisville Football Players Shot at Heisman Celebration   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now

An inmate serving a life sentence in a South Carolina prison who escaped from custody Wednesday night has been captured, according to police.

The inmate, identified as 47-year-old Michael Alan Williamson, escaped from the McCormick Correctional Institution, a medium/maximum level prison in McCormick, South Carolina, at approximately 8:50 p.m. local time. Williamson is believed to have then traveled dozens of miles to Columbia, the state capital, where he allegedly stabbed a female police officer who was responding to a shoplifting call at a Walmart just before 10 p.m., authorities said.

Police said the officer, whose name has not been released, was transported to a local hospital. She was treated for two stab wounds to her left arm and shoulder. She is in stable condition and is expected to recover, police said.

“She’s ready to get back in the fight,” said Columbia Police Chief William “Skip” Holbrook.

Williamson was captured Thursday morning before 11 a.m. local time on Sunset Boulevard in the town of Lexington, according to the Columbia Police Department. A parent at a middle school in Lexington notified the school resource officer that she had seen a "suspicious male" dressed in black and wearing a mask walking on a nearby street, according to the Lexington Police Department.

After the school resource officer notified police, a responding officer saw the man walking in the roadway and asked him to remove his black mask. When he did, the officer recognized him as Williamson, who then fled into the woods. Police eventually captured Williamson and took him into custody after he attempted to enter another school in town.

Lexington Police Chief Terrence Green commended the witness who alerted the school resource officer to Williamson.

"I am pleased that our officers were able to arrest this dangerous felon and bring to a close the extensive search that had been going on since last night," Green said. "For our citizens, this also highlights the importance that when you see someone or something that just doesn’t look right, please call the police. Like in today’s arrest, it can make all the difference.”

Holbrook thanked law enforcement partners for assisting in the hours-long manhunt.

“They didn’t hesitate,” he said at a press conference.

Authorities said Williamson will not return to the McCormick facility.

Suspect Williamson was found before 11:00 a.m. at 4300 block of Sunset Blvd. SCDC Director says Williamson will not go back to McCormick. pic.twitter.com/iN1mjcgwKr — Cola Police Dept. SC (@ColumbiaPDSC) December 8, 2016

Authorities concluded that the escaped inmate and the suspect in the assault on the officer are the same person.

“In working with Columbia law enforcement officials, it was determined that inmate Williamson is a suspect in a shoplifting incident and assault on a Columbia police officer at a Walmart on Bush River Road on Wednesday night,” South Carolina Department of Corrections representative Sommer Sharpe told ABC News.

According to correctional records, Williamson was sentenced to life in prison in 1998 for armed robbery and was also convicted in 1997 of assault and battery with intent to kill. His prison records also show several disciplinary actions for use or possession of unauthorized drugs, smuggling of contraband and other infractions.

ABC News’ Rachel Katz, Devin Villacis and Jason Volack contributed to this report.