In Cuban Town That Hershey Built, Memories Both Bitter and Sweet
In Cuban Town That Hershey Built, Memories Both Bitter and Sweet
CAMILO CIENFUEGOS, Cuba — The sugar refinery has been closed for 14 years, yet Amarylis Ribot still misses the whoop of the steam whistle that signaled the changes in work shifts. She misses the smell of the harvest — “an odor difficult to explain,” she said — and the sweetness hanging in the air. She misses the sound of industry, like the clack of the trains bringing in raw cane and hauling away sacks of sugar, but mostly at night, after she turns off the television. “It’s a big mix of emotions,” Ms. Ribot, 68, said. “Industry is no longer, so nostalgia takes its place.” This small town on Cuba ’s northern coast is steeped in memory and wistfulness, a kind of living monument to the intertwined histories of the United States and Cuba and to the successes and failures of Fidel Castro ’s social revolution. Advertisement The town dates to 1916, when Milton S. Hershey, the American chocolate baron, visited Cuba for the first time and decided to buy sugar plantations and mills on the island to supply his growing chocolate empire in Pennsylvania. On land east of Havana, he built a large sugar refinery and an adjoining village — a model town like his creation in Hershey, Pa. — to house his workers and their families. Advertisement He named the place Hershey. The village would come to include about 160 homes — the most elegant made of stone, the more modest of wooden planks — built along a grid of streets and each with tidy yards and front porches in the style common in the growing suburbs of the United States. It also had a public school, a medical clinic, shops, a movie theater, a golf course, social clubs and a baseball stadium where a Hershey-sponsored team played its home games, residents said. The factory became one of the most productive sugar refineries in the country, if not in all of Latin America, and the village was the envy of surrounding towns, which lacked the standard of living that Mr. Hershey bestowed on his namesake settlement. The company owned all the properties in the village but was a benevolent patron, residents said. It paid relatively high salaries, subsidized the housing and sought to keep its employees and their families happy, responding quickly to home repair issues and maintaining public utilities. “This was a place separate from the rest of the country,” said Pedro Gonzalez Bernal, 67, a lifelong resident of the village and a radio journalist, whose father worked as a conductor on the rail line Mr. Hershey built to connect the refinery with Havana and the port of Matanzas. “We were a little world apart.” But the company’s imported mores also included class and racial segregation: The American supervisors lived in the biggest houses, the laborers in the smallest; black workers were assigned homes on the farthest edge of town. Mr. Hershey died in 1945 and the company sold the plant and village, along with his other Cuban holdings, in 1948. After Mr. Castro’s ascent in 1959, the refinery was nationalized and the town was renamed Camilo Cienfuegos, after one of Mr. Castro’s commanders. Segregation ended, current residents say proudly, and the homes were redistributed as Mr. Castro’s socialism sought to flatten class and racial hierarchies. But with the shift in ownership, attention to detail in town gradually began to slip, residents say. Residents became responsible for repairs to their homes, and lower state wages meant that the cost of those repairs was often out of reach. An annual party was eventually discontinued. The baseball stadium was demolished. Advertisement Still, the sugar refinery remained among the most productive in the country, helping make Cuba the world’s biggest sugar exporter and sugar the backbone of the economy. But the Cuban sugar business declined after the collapse of the Soviet Union, its principal sponsor, and in the early 2000s the government shut scores of sugar plants, including the one here. Residents were told that the old Hershey refinery had to close because it was no longer efficient; everyone blamed the United States embargo for making the import of supplies and necessary spare parts more difficult, if not impossible. But unlike similar shutdowns in certain American industrial towns, the closing of the refinery here did not kill the local economy, residents said. The Cuban government helped the workers find new jobs. Some were sent back to school to prepare for work in different industries, while others were placed in growing sectors like tourism. “They weren’t left without work, obviously,” said Mercedes Díaz Hernandez, 69, Mr. Gonzalez’s wife, as if to suggest that the notion of unemployment in Cuba was an absurdity. Villagers and factory employees responded to the government’s decision with obedience and loyalty. There were no public protests or insurrections, residents said. “It’s easy to understand,” Mr. Gonzalez said in an interview at his home in Camilo Cienfuegos last week. If the factory is stuck in a pattern of economic inefficiency, he continued, “it’s necessary to shut it down for the well-being of the country and the well-being of the revolution.” His television was tuned to a broadcast tracking Mr. Castro’s funeral cortège as it rolled across the country. “The refinery was always a source of pride,” Mr. Gonzalez said. “We keep feeling pride.” But many in the village have quietly wrestled with a feeling of loss. The plant had been “the center of life here,” said Ms. Ribot, whose father was the director of the Hershey refinery for several years beginning in the late 1960s. Advertisement Jesús Zenon Aresbello, 80, who has lived his entire life in the village, said that “everyone wanted to leave it to their children, to their grandchildren.” The town’s slide accelerated after the plant closed, residents said. And though the place is still unlike any other in Cuba, it has fallen into a state of general raggedness, not unlike the rest of the country. The condition of many houses shows owners doing their best on few resources: clean, tidy interiors and yards, but the structures held together through a patchwork of repair jobs done on the cheap. Weeds have reclaimed sidewalks, while mounds of trash dot the roadside. Faded revolutionary slogans painted on walls seem undercut against the backdrop of a warehouse’s broken windows or a nearby home’s collapsed roof. In recent months, most of the sugar factory’s buildings were demolished and the debris carted away, leaving a vast and mostly empty wasteland strewn with rubble and twisted metal, and punctuated by three vestigial smokestacks. “I’m a Fidelista, entirely in favor of the revolution,” declared Meraldo Nojas Sutil, 78, who moved to Hershey when he was 11 and worked in the plant during the 1960s and ’70s. “But slowly the town is deteriorating.” Many residents do not hesitate to draw a contrast between the current state of the town and the way that it looked when “Mr. Hershey,” as he is invariably called here, was the boss. Residents seem amused by, if not proud of, the ties to the United States. Most still use the village’s original name, pronounced locally as “AIR-see.” And Hershey signs still hang at the town’s train station, a romantic nod to a bygone era, though perhaps also a symbol of hope that the past — at least, certain aspects of it — will again become the present. A version of this article appears in print on December 8, 2016, on page A7 of the with the headline: Past Is Bittersweet in Cuban Town  That Hershey Built.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

The town dates to 1916, when Milton S. Hershey, the American chocolate baron, visited Cuba for the first time and decided to buy sugar plantations and mills on the island to supply his growing chocolate empire in Pennsylvania. On land east of Havana, he built a large sugar refinery and an adjoining village — a model town like his creation in Hershey, Pa. — to house his workers and their families.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He named the place Hershey.

The village would come to include about 160 homes — the most elegant made of stone, the more modest of wooden planks — built along a grid of streets and each with tidy yards and front porches in the style common in the growing suburbs of the United States. It also had a public school, a medical clinic, shops, a movie theater, a golf course, social clubs and a baseball stadium where a Hershey-sponsored team played its home games, residents said.

The factory became one of the most productive sugar refineries in the country, if not in all of Latin America, and the village was the envy of surrounding towns, which lacked the standard of living that Mr. Hershey bestowed on his namesake settlement.

Photo

The company owned all the properties in the village but was a benevolent patron, residents said. It paid relatively high salaries, subsidized the housing and sought to keep its employees and their families happy, responding quickly to home repair issues and maintaining public utilities.

“This was a place separate from the rest of the country,” said Pedro Gonzalez Bernal, 67, a lifelong resident of the village and a radio journalist, whose father worked as a conductor on the rail line Mr. Hershey built to connect the refinery with Havana and the port of Matanzas. “We were a little world apart.”

But the company’s imported mores also included class and racial segregation: The American supervisors lived in the biggest houses, the laborers in the smallest; black workers were assigned homes on the farthest edge of town.

Mr. Hershey died in 1945 and the company sold the plant and village, along with his other Cuban holdings, in 1948.

After Mr. Castro’s ascent in 1959, the refinery was nationalized and the town was renamed Camilo Cienfuegos, after one of Mr. Castro’s commanders. Segregation ended, current residents say proudly, and the homes were redistributed as Mr. Castro’s socialism sought to flatten class and racial hierarchies.

But with the shift in ownership, attention to detail in town gradually began to slip, residents say. Residents became responsible for repairs to their homes, and lower state wages meant that the cost of those repairs was often out of reach. An annual party was eventually discontinued. The baseball stadium was demolished.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, the sugar refinery remained among the most productive in the country, helping make Cuba the world’s biggest sugar exporter and sugar the backbone of the economy. But the Cuban sugar business declined after the collapse of the Soviet Union, its principal sponsor, and in the early 2000s the government shut scores of sugar plants, including the one here.

Photo

Residents were told that the old Hershey refinery had to close because it was no longer efficient; everyone blamed the United States embargo for making the import of supplies and necessary spare parts more difficult, if not impossible.

But unlike similar shutdowns in certain American industrial towns, the closing of the refinery here did not kill the local economy, residents said. The Cuban government helped the workers find new jobs. Some were sent back to school to prepare for work in different industries, while others were placed in growing sectors like tourism.

“They weren’t left without work, obviously,” said Mercedes Díaz Hernandez, 69, Mr. Gonzalez’s wife, as if to suggest that the notion of unemployment in Cuba was an absurdity.

Villagers and factory employees responded to the government’s decision with obedience and loyalty. There were no public protests or insurrections, residents said.

“It’s easy to understand,” Mr. Gonzalez said in an interview at his home in Camilo Cienfuegos last week.

If the factory is stuck in a pattern of economic inefficiency, he continued, “it’s necessary to shut it down for the well-being of the country and the well-being of the revolution.” His television was tuned to a broadcast tracking Mr. Castro’s funeral cortège as it rolled across the country.

“The refinery was always a source of pride,” Mr. Gonzalez said. “We keep feeling pride.”

But many in the village have quietly wrestled with a feeling of loss.

Photo

The plant had been “the center of life here,” said Ms. Ribot, whose father was the director of the Hershey refinery for several years beginning in the late 1960s.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jesús Zenon Aresbello, 80, who has lived his entire life in the village, said that “everyone wanted to leave it to their children, to their grandchildren.”

The town’s slide accelerated after the plant closed, residents said. And though the place is still unlike any other in Cuba, it has fallen into a state of general raggedness, not unlike the rest of the country.

The condition of many houses shows owners doing their best on few resources: clean, tidy interiors and yards, but the structures held together through a patchwork of repair jobs done on the cheap.

Weeds have reclaimed sidewalks, while mounds of trash dot the roadside. Faded revolutionary slogans painted on walls seem undercut against the backdrop of a warehouse’s broken windows or a nearby home’s collapsed roof.

In recent months, most of the sugar factory’s buildings were demolished and the debris carted away, leaving a vast and mostly empty wasteland strewn with rubble and twisted metal, and punctuated by three vestigial smokestacks.

“I’m a Fidelista, entirely in favor of the revolution,” declared Meraldo Nojas Sutil, 78, who moved to Hershey when he was 11 and worked in the plant during the 1960s and ’70s. “But slowly the town is deteriorating.”

Many residents do not hesitate to draw a contrast between the current state of the town and the way that it looked when “Mr. Hershey,” as he is invariably called here, was the boss.

Residents seem amused by, if not proud of, the ties to the United States.

Most still use the village’s original name, pronounced locally as “AIR-see.” And Hershey signs still hang at the town’s train station, a romantic nod to a bygone era, though perhaps also a symbol of hope that the past — at least, certain aspects of it — will again become the present.