Giraffes now facing extinction, warn conservationists
Giraffes now facing extinction, warn conservationists 
iraffe's have been placed on the Red List of endangered species, after conservationists discovered there were fewer than 100,000 left in the wild. The animal was previously listed as ‘of least concern' but is now classed as ‘vulnerable to extinction’ after the global population plummeted by 40 per cent in the past 30 years . Giraffes are declining because of habitat loss, illegal hunting and civil unrest in the African countries where they live. he updated Red List, compiled by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), also warned that African grey parrots were facing extinction because they were being trapped so often for the pet trade. More than 700 newly recognised bird species have also been assessed for the new update with more than one in 10 found to be at risk of dying out. IUCN director general Inger Anderson said: "Many species are slipping away before we can even describe them. "This IUCN Red List update shows that the scale of the global extinction crisis may be even greater than we thought." There are now 85,604 species assessed for the Red List, of which more than a quarter - 24,307 - are threatened with extinction, being classed as critically endangered, endangered or vulnerable. Giraffes were once widespread across southern and eastern Africa with smaller sub-populations in west and central Africa. Numbers have declined from around 151,702 to 163,452 animals in 1985 to 97,562 individuals in 2015, the IUCN said, with a growing human population having a negative impact. ild oats, barley, mango and other wild relatives of crops that humans rely on have been assessed for the first time for the Red List. The species are increasingly important to food security, as they could provide new varieties that are more resilient to extreme conditions such as drought. The assessment listed four mango species as endangered and the Kalimantan mango was classed as extinct in the wild. A wild relative of the chickpea that is native to Iran and Turkey has been listed as endangered due to the conversion of its habitat for agriculture. A Japanese relative of asparagus, hamatamabouki, is also listed as endangered due to habitat loss, while the anomalus sunflower is classed as vulnerable.

The updated Red List, compiled by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), also warned that African grey parrots were facing extinction because they were being trapped so often for the pet trade.

More than 700 newly recognised bird species have also been assessed for the new update with more than one in 10 found to be at risk of dying out.

IUCN director general Inger Anderson said: "Many species are slipping away before we can even describe them.

"This IUCN Red List update shows that the scale of the global extinction crisis may be even greater than we thought."

There are now 85,604 species assessed for the Red List, of which more than a quarter - 24,307 - are threatened with extinction, being classed as critically endangered, endangered or vulnerable.

Giraffes were once widespread across southern and eastern Africa with smaller sub-populations in west and central Africa.

Numbers have declined from around 151,702 to 163,452 animals in 1985 to 97,562 individuals in 2015, the IUCN said, with a growing human population having a negative impact.