Trump's Cabinet Picks Have a Combined Wealth of $14.5B. How Did They All Make Their Money?
How the billionaires in Trump's cabinet picks made their billions
President-elect Donald Trump ran on a campaign of blue-collar anger and populism, but he's now drawing fire for stocking his White House with fellow billionaires. Financial success isn't necessarily a barrier to public service. President Obama has a billionaire on staff too: Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker is worth an estimated $2.5 billion, from real estate and family banking investments in Chicago.   Donald Trump Builds Cabinet with Old Friends and Some Rivals  But already the combined wealth of Trump's prospective cabinet tops $14 billion — more than 30 times greater than that of even President George W. Bush's White House. And Trump isn't halfway done with his picks. Here's a look at how some of the wealthiest appointees so far stack up, according to data and estimates by the Washington Post, Forbes, The Guardian, and OpenSecrets.org: $5.3 billion - Todd Ricketts - Deputy Secretary of Commerce Co-owner of Chicago Cubs. Billionaire father founded the Ameritrade discount brokerage services. $5.1 billion - Betsy DeVos - Secretary of Education Daughter-in-law of co-founder of Amway, a multi-level-marketing company later renamed "Quixtar." Brother founded Blackwater. Fierce faith-based proponent of school voucher programs. $2.9 billion - Wilbur Ross - Secretary of Commerce Dubbed the "king of bankruptcy." Restructured failed companies in steel, coal, and telecommunications using leveraged buyouts. $1.16 billion (with husband) - Linda McMahon, head of Small Business Administration  Co-founder of the pro-wrestling company World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which she owns with her husband, Vince McMahon. His net worth is estimated to be $1.16 billion, according to Forbes . The magazine reported that Linda McMahon owns $84 million in the company's stock. She previously attempted to enter politics when she ran for the U.S. Senate in Connecticut in 2010 and 2012, pouring close to $100 million into the campaigns. $46 million - Steven Mnuchin - Secretary of the Treasury Worked 17 years at Goldman Sachs. Started his own hedge fund and invested in at least two Donald Trump projects. Turned around failed home lender IndyMac and renamed it OneWest. Company was involved in string of lawsuits over questionable foreclosure practices. In one controversy the bank foreclosed on a senior who accidentally underpaid by 27 cents. $26 million - Ben Carson - Secretary of Housing and Urban Development A former Republican presidential candidate and neurosurgeon with revenue from best-selling books, paid speeches and board positions. During his campaign said social safety net and welfare programs create dependency among poor. $16.9 million - Elaine Chao - Transportation Secretary Former member of both Bush administrations. Daughter of a shipping magnate. Married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. $13.6 million - Tom Price - Secretary of Health and Human Services An orthopedic surgeon with medical industry companies in his stock portfolio. He wants to repeal Obamacare and replace it with tax credits and health savings accounts. $15.8 million - Jeff Sessions - Attorney General Republican Senator from Alabama. Noted advocate for reducing legal immigration. Supported Bush tax cuts, opposed 2009 stimulus and Obamacare. Top contributors are in legal, health, real estate and utilities, especially a gas and electric company and a coal-mining firm.

President-elect Donald Trump ran on a campaign of blue-collar anger and populism, but he's now drawing fire for stocking his White House with fellow billionaires.

Financial success isn't necessarily a barrier to public service. President Obama has a billionaire on staff too: Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker is worth an estimated $2.5 billion, from real estate and family banking investments in Chicago.

Related: Donald Trump Builds Cabinet with Old Friends and Some Rivals

But already the combined wealth of Trump's prospective cabinet tops $14 billion — more than 30 times greater than that of even President George W. Bush's White House. And Trump isn't halfway done with his picks.

Here's a look at how some of the wealthiest appointees so far stack up, according to data and estimates by the Washington Post, Forbes, The Guardian, and OpenSecrets.org:

$5.3 billion - Todd Ricketts - Deputy Secretary of Commerce

Co-owner of Chicago Cubs. Billionaire father founded the Ameritrade discount brokerage services.

Todd Ricketts, co-owner of the Chicago Cubs. Drew Angerer / Getty Images

$5.1 billion - Betsy DeVos - Secretary of Education

Daughter-in-law of co-founder of Amway, a multi-level-marketing company later renamed "Quixtar." Brother founded Blackwater. Fierce faith-based proponent of school voucher programs.

President-elect Trump's nominee for Education Secretary, Elisabeth DeVos, is the daughter-in-law of Amway co-founder Richard DeVos. JIM LO SCALZO / EPA

$2.9 billion - Wilbur Ross - Secretary of Commerce

Dubbed the "king of bankruptcy." Restructured failed companies in steel, coal, and telecommunications using leveraged buyouts.

Wilbur Ross, President-elect Donald Trump's choice for Commerce Secretary. Drew Angerer / Getty Images

$1.16 billion (with husband) - Linda McMahon, head of Small Business Administration

Co-founder of the pro-wrestling company World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which she owns with her husband, Vince McMahon. His net worth is estimated to be $1.16 billion, according to Forbes. The magazine reported that Linda McMahon owns $84 million in the company's stock. She previously attempted to enter politics when she ran for the U.S. Senate in Connecticut in 2010 and 2012, pouring close to $100 million into the campaigns.

Linda McMahon, former CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment, speaks to reporters at Trump Tower, Nov. 30, in New York City. Drew Angerer / Getty Images

$46 million - Steven Mnuchin - Secretary of the Treasury

Worked 17 years at Goldman Sachs. Started his own hedge fund and invested in at least two Donald Trump projects. Turned around failed home lender IndyMac and renamed it OneWest. Company was involved in string of lawsuits over questionable foreclosure practices. In one controversy the bank foreclosed on a senior who accidentally underpaid by 27 cents.

Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick for Secretary of the Treasury. ANDREW GOMBERT / EPA

$26 million - Ben Carson - Secretary of Housing and Urban Development

A former Republican presidential candidate and neurosurgeon with revenue from best-selling books, paid speeches and board positions. During his campaign said social safety net and welfare programs create dependency among poor.

Ben Carson, Trump's pick for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. SAUL LOEB / AFP - Getty Images

$16.9 million - Elaine Chao - Transportation Secretary

Former member of both Bush administrations. Daughter of a shipping magnate. Married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

Former Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao. Aude Guerrucci / POOL / EPA

$13.6 million - Tom Price - Secretary of Health and Human Services

An orthopedic surgeon with medical industry companies in his stock portfolio. He wants to repeal Obamacare and replace it with tax credits and health savings accounts.

Tom Price, Trump's pick for Secretary of Health and Human Services. Alex Wong / Getty Images

$15.8 million - Jeff Sessions - Attorney General

Republican Senator from Alabama. Noted advocate for reducing legal immigration. Supported Bush tax cuts, opposed 2009 stimulus and Obamacare. Top contributors are in legal, health, real estate and utilities, especially a gas and electric company and a coal-mining firm.