Milo Ventimiglia Recreates Memorable ‘This Is Us’ Push-Ups Scene on ‘Ellen’
Milo Ventimiglia Recreates Memorable ‘This Is Us’ Push-Ups Scene on ‘Ellen’
star Milo Ventimiglia visited the set of on Tuesday and recreated an emotional scene from the hit NBC show, with the help of host Ellen DeGeneres. In Ventimiglia’s character does push-ups with his adopted son on his back as a gesture to show that he’ll be there for him throughout his life. This, of course, led to him and co-star Sterling K. Brown, who plays his adult son on the show, doing the same thing backstage. And if Ventimiglia can do push-ups with a grown man on his back, it only stands to reason that hoisting DeGeneres, who is 5’7” and in decent shape, would be no problem. After talking about the moving scene from and showing video of him and Brown backstage, Ventimiglia asked DeGeneres if she wanted to get on his back while he did push-ups, and she jumped at the chance. After doing several push-ups with her on his back, it was time for her to give it a shot with him on her back, a feat that was obviously much more difficult for DeGeneres, but Ventimiglia was more than happy to help out. Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram , or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter .

This Is Us star Milo Ventimiglia visited the set of Ellen on Tuesday and recreated an emotional scene from the hit NBC show, with the help of host Ellen DeGeneres. In This Is Us, Ventimiglia’s character does push-ups with his adopted son on his back as a gesture to show that he’ll be there for him throughout his life. This, of course, led to him and co-star Sterling K. Brown, who plays his adult son on the show, doing the same thing backstage. And if Ventimiglia can do push-ups with a grown man on his back, it only stands to reason that hoisting DeGeneres, who is 5’7” and in decent shape, would be no problem.

After talking about the moving scene from This is Us and showing video of him and Brown backstage, Ventimiglia asked DeGeneres if she wanted to get on his back while he did push-ups, and she jumped at the chance. After doing several push-ups with her on his back, it was time for her to give it a shot with him on her back, a feat that was obviously much more difficult for DeGeneres, but Ventimiglia was more than happy to help out.

Justin Bieber talks to Ellen about wanting to remain single:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.