Here's The Untold Story Of Sindhudesh - A 'Country' Of Sindhi People Lost In Pakistan
Here's The Untold Story Of Sindhudesh - A 'Country' Of Sindhi People Lost In Pakistan
The separatist movements in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir , Gilgit Baltistan and Balochistan were in the headlines in the not so distant past, mainly due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reference to them at the Independence Day speech and open support by New Delhi. While it dominated the headlines across the national media for over a month due to the verbal spat between New Delhi and Islamabad, many failed to look beyond the headlines. And that is how an equally simmering separatist movement which is even closer to India got largely ignored by the Indian media. Just like in Balochistan and PoK, there has been a separatist movement in Pakistan's Sindh province. The ethnic Sindhi people are campaigning for a homeland of theirs, independent from Pakistan. They call their concept country as Sindhudesh, or a country for Sindhi people. The origin It officially began in the 1960's as a literary movement against the imposing of Urdu language on them and the settlement of Muhajirs, the Indian Muslims who migrated to Pakistan following the partition in 1947. There were several earlier events that paved the way for this demand. One of them was the attack on Hindus and their places of worship in 1948, which forced many Sindhi Hindus out of their homeland. When Punjab was being ripped apart by violent and gruesome clashes between the Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, Sindh remained peaceful. However, after some Hindu places of worship were attacked in Karachi in 1948, Hindu Sindhis began to leave in droves. This is when Sindhi intellectuals and political thinkers such as Ibrahim Joyo and GM Syed began to shape a meta-narrative of Sindhi identity, because to them, the departing Hindus were first Sindhis, then Hindus; and their departure weakened Sindh’s demography and economy. In the following decades, the demand of 'Sindh nationalism' took shape mainly due to the woks of intellectuals like Syed. The first demand of separation of Sindh from Pakistan In 1972, Syed's political outfit  'Jeeay Sindh' formally raised the the demand for secession of Sindh from Pakistan. However, the movement lost its political steam after Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who himself is was a Sindhi became the Prime Minister of Pakistan. In the coming years under the dictatorship of General Ziaul Haq the party broke into factions and the idea of Sindh nationalism took a back seat.

The separatist movements in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, Gilgit Baltistan and Balochistan were in the headlines in the not so distant past, mainly due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reference to them at the Independence Day speech and open support by New Delhi.

While it dominated the headlines across the national media for over a month due to the verbal spat between New Delhi and Islamabad, many failed to look beyond the headlines. And that is how an equally simmering separatist movement which is even closer to India got largely ignored by the Indian media. Just like in Balochistan and PoK, there has been a separatist movement in Pakistan's Sindh province.

The ethnic Sindhi people are campaigning for a homeland of theirs, independent from Pakistan. They call their concept country as Sindhudesh, or a country for Sindhi people.

The origin

It officially began in the 1960's as a literary movement against the imposing of Urdu language on them and the settlement of Muhajirs, the Indian Muslims who migrated to Pakistan following the partition in 1947.

There were several earlier events that paved the way for this demand. One of them was the attack on Hindus and their places of worship in 1948, which forced many Sindhi Hindus out of their homeland.

When Punjab was being ripped apart by violent and gruesome clashes between the Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims after the creation of Pakistan in 1947, Sindh remained peaceful. However, after some Hindu places of worship were attacked in Karachi in 1948, Hindu Sindhis began to leave in droves.

Dawn

This is when Sindhi intellectuals and political thinkers such as Ibrahim Joyo and GM Syed began to shape a meta-narrative of Sindhi identity, because to them, the departing Hindus were first Sindhis, then Hindus; and their departure weakened Sindh’s demography and economy.

In the following decades, the demand of 'Sindh nationalism' took shape mainly due to the woks of intellectuals like Syed.

The first demand of separation of Sindh from Pakistan

In 1972, Syed's political outfit 'Jeeay Sindh' formally raised the the demand for secession of Sindh from Pakistan. However, the movement lost its political steam after Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who himself is was a Sindhi became the Prime Minister of Pakistan. In the coming years under the dictatorship of General Ziaul Haq the party broke into factions and the idea of Sindh nationalism took a back seat.

AFP

The idea of once again started gaining momentum with the emergence of Altaf Hussain and his Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) in Sindh. The party drew its core support base from the Mohajir community, the Urdu speaking Muslim population who had migrated to the region from mainland India in 1947. For many Sindh nationalists, the Muhajir, who had become the second largest ethnic group in the province was not ready to let go their culture and accept Sindhi ideas.

With the MQM making rapid political gains it was only a matter of time the once sidelined Sindh nationalism to resurface.

The return of national identity

Today, once again the idea of Sindh nationalism has taken the centrestage, led by a host of pro-nationalist political fronts like Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz, Jeay Sindh Muttahida Mahaz and and World Sindhi Congress who have taken their fight for national identity to the international fora.

According to World Sindhi Congress Chairman Lakhu Luhana, the current resurgence is a result of resentment of the Sindhi people against what they see as systematic demographic re-engineering, by promoting large scale migration of Punjabis to Sindh. This, he said, was following the discovery of huge mineral deposits in Sindh.

JSMM

In the recent years deposits of natural gas, chromite, coal, gypsum, limestone, petroleum and other mineral have been found in Sindh. The rich deposits of copper, iron, chromite, lead, zinc are discovered in large quantity, as well as a good quantity of coal has also be found in Thar in the province of Sindh. The production of barite, bentonite, various types of industrial clays ochre and silica sand has also found.

This migration, they say is making the ethnic Sindhi people a minority in their own homeland.

Sindh and China Pakistan Economic Corridor

Recently, led by JSMM, Sindh nationalist have been holding regular protests against the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) the $5 billion infrastructure project which runs from Balochistan to Xinjiang in China.

According, to Shafi Muhammad Burfat, the Chairman JSMM the CPEC will increase tensions in the region between India, Pakistan and China.

JSMM

He also added that the massive projects will be of no benefit for locals and they will only be deprived of their resources.

"Conspiracy of converting them in ethnic minority will obviously result in non-Sindhi so-called democratic representation of Sindhis in the so-called democratic institutions of Pakistan dominated by alien settlers safeguarding the interests of Punjabi imperialism and depriving the native Sindhis to hold the significant majority to represent the national interests of the native people of Sindh and thus negating even the Sindh’s democratic right to oppose the imperialism and conspiracies in a democratic pattern," he argues.

JSMM

The JSMM says Pakistan has gone on an oppression spree, silencing anyone and everyone raising their voice in the form of democratic protest, and thus ensure that the country's most ambitious infrastructure project will go on, even if it is at the expense of thousands of lives.

He said the colony-like treatment of Islamabad to provinces like Sindh and Balochistan will culminate in a situation similar to what happened with East Pakistan (modern day Bangladesh) in 1971.

Sindhis are not the only ethnic group in the world that is seeking a separate nation for themselves. There are several other ethno-nationalist movements around the world that are currently engaged in their respective struggles. Nobody knows if they would ever be able to achieve their goals, their struggle, they say, will continue.