'Google For Public Data' Yields New Health Insights
'Google For Public Data' Yields New Health Insights
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Judy Stone       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Feeling overwhelmed making sense of health data? A powerful new data set and visualization will help provide great insights into drug development and Medicare spending on drugs. Best part? The data will be freely available, courtesy of the aptly named company, Enigma . Funded by venture capitalists and more staid investors, including the NEA and New York Times Company, Enigma is a data technology company whose main business is providing analytics to industry, using both public and proprietary data, in order to help companies make better decisions. The gleans data from billions of public records, running the gamut from climate, to patent filings, to government contracts and the government shutdown . It excels at data visualization, which is how it caught my eye. Shutterstock Three members of the team, Hicham Oudghiri (founder and CEO of Enigma), Kelvin Chan ( , and Jeremy Krinsley (data scientist and chief engineer for project), patiently walked me through some of their health databases, using oncology drugs as one example. First, we looked at the drug development timeline which compared oncology drugs. You can easily sort the dataviz in different ways including drug development timelines, shown here for cancer drugs, and then in detail for Bexarotene. Comparison timeline of cancer drug development - Enigma Drug development timeline - Enigma (Note: you can click on each of the purple dots in the timeline to see details of events) One of the interesting choices behind the timeline display is to use generic drugs, rather than a specific brand, to follow the path of the molecule over its lifetime. Oudghiri explained that this should enable data analysts to tease out true innovation from companies expanding their market share by reformulating a product as an extended-release formulation, for example. The next tab shows by severity and by gender. Adverse events view - Enigma Selecting Bexarotene as an example, we can look deeper at : Note that the pink line is not for the specific drug, but is the average for oncology drugs at a given time. The Bexarotene costs are in lavender. An investigative journalist, curious student or watchdog groups might look at the rather steep rise in the cost of the drug in 2013, when there was a sharp uptick and, doing further research, learn that Valeant purchased the drug in 2013… A similar pattern is intriguing with insulin formulations. You can examine many drugs similarly. As an infectious disease physician, I was disappointed that they have little data compiled yet on antibiotic costs, but they do have some on HIV drug development and how enormously expensive that is to treat. This gets us back to the issue of how political decisions—for example, Mike Pence’s defunding Planned Parenthood and initially forbidding needle exchanges have profound impacts on citizens' personal health and autonomy, but also on public health, ultimately needlessly costing taxpayers billions of dollars. Pence's puritanical decisions in Indiana resulted in almost 200 more cases of HIV among his citizens . A 2010 study combined estimates of lifetime treatment costs (2009 dollars), with the medical savings from HIV infections averted by U.S. prevention programs from 1991-2006 to be $ with 361,878 HIV infections averted. One of the beauties of Enigma is that it has compiled its data from multiple agencies into one rather user-friendly interface. Enigma collates data from: USPTO Patents NIH Clinical Trials FDA Adverse Event Reporting FDA Orange Book CDC Recalls FDA Approved Drugs FDA Orphaned Products CMS Medicare Spending Drugs@FDA European Drug Registry I was especially happy to see the detail about adverse events they have compiled. Chan  noted that more than 60% of adults take at least one prescription medicine. According to the AHRQ (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) nearly one-third of adults in the United States take 5 or more medications . A report from the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics for 2015 noted that there were 4.4 billion prescriptions dispensed in 2015, up 1% from the prior year. The demand was far higher for antidepressants and anti-diabetes medicines, each of which increased about 10% in 2015! It will be interesting to see what the increase is in the next few months for various classes of drugs. Adverse drug events (ADE) affect about 2 million people in the U.S. each year, and kill about 100,000. ADEs account for nearly 700,000 emergency department visits and 100,000 hospitalizations each year, and affect nearly 5% of hospitalized patients. Tracking down the cause of adverse events (AEs) is difficult and compounded by the number of patients taking multiple prescriptions. A patient’s other underlying illnesses, or comorbidities, also make attribution more difficult. This is why early clinical trials have extreme restrictions on who can participate in a clinical trial, excluding real-world patients with multiple medical problems. Clinical trials include a small number of a rarefied group of patients, and are not representative of what happens in the real world, after drug approval and marketing. If a side effect is uncommon, it may not be detected until millions of people take the drug—and then, only if the reaction is severe enough to be recognized. Adverse events are also notoriously underreported by both patients and physicians. Sometimes, the side effect is misdiagnosed, as I recently learned. In this case, I was placed on metformin for “pre-diabetes.” When I developed a very painful peripheral neuropathy, physicians attributed it to underlying diabetes. Fortunately, a Twitter friend mentioned that metformin can cause a B12 deficiency. The neuropathy promptly resolved once we corrected the new B12 deficiency. None of three physicians was aware of this relatively unusual side effect of this commonly prescribed med, and none of us reported it. So data on AEs is fragmented and insufficient. Enigma’s enormous databases and computing capabilities will better allow analysis and detection of problems. Chan also notes that this type of data might also detect problems with a drug manufacturer’s supply chain (such as contamination with a harmful chemical) more rapidly (similar to the melamine contamination of baby formula in 2008). In addition to drug AE’s, Enigma has a similar extensive database of CDC recalls for various types of contamination , from adulterated products to an array of infectious diseases. You can explore the new Enigma healthcare site here , and there is an explainer that further illustrates how to use the site. Having grown too cynical in recent years, I was a bit surprised at Enigma’s generosity in making so much data publicly available and being willing to support curious researchers and journalists. They view this as a win-win strategy. First, potential client companies can see the value of using these linked datasets. Second, staff enjoy the opportunity to be innovative and test out new technology. This is analogous to the model that Stanley Litow explained is behind IBM’s Impact Grants program . IBM’s World Community Grid has supported 27 research projects and all data is, again, open-source. Enigma responded that they believe “when data is public and connected--we can better understand and solve some of the world's most challenging problems. This Lab, and all of our Labs projects, speak directly to our vision of empowering people to interpret and improve the world around them.” It’s refreshing and particularly inspiring to me in these troubled times to come across a company hoping to work collaboratively and synergistically with the public to further science. I look forward to learning more from their discoveries from this exciting endeavor.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Feeling overwhelmed making sense of health data? A powerful new data set and visualization will help provide great insights into drug development and Medicare spending on drugs. Best part? The data will be freely available, courtesy of the aptly named company, Enigma.

Funded by venture capitalists and more staid investors, including the NEA and New York Times Company, Enigma is a data technology company whose main business is providing analytics to industry, using both public and proprietary data, in order to help companies make better decisions. The “Google for public data” company gleans data from billions of public records, running the gamut from climate, to patent filings, to government contracts and the government shutdown. It excels at data visualization, which is how it caught my eye.

Three members of the team, Hicham Oudghiri (founder and CEO of Enigma), Kelvin Chan (commercial senior associate focusing on healthcare), and Jeremy Krinsley (data scientist and chief engineer for project), patiently walked me through some of their health databases, using oncology drugs as one example.

First, we looked at the drug development timeline which compared oncology drugs. You can easily sort the dataviz in different ways including drug development timelines, shown here for cancer drugs, and then in detail for Bexarotene.

(Note: you can click on each of the purple dots in the timeline to see details of events)

One of the interesting choices behind the timeline display is to use generic drugs, rather than a specific brand, to follow the path of the molecule over its lifetime. Oudghiri explained that this should enable data analysts to tease out true innovation from companies expanding their market share by reformulating a product as an extended-release formulation, for example.

The next tab shows adverse events by severity and by gender.

Selecting Bexarotene as an example, we can look deeper at Medicare spending : Note that the pink line is not for the specific drug, but is the average for oncology drugs at a given time. The Bexarotene costs are in lavender.

An investigative journalist, curious student or watchdog groups might look at the rather steep rise in the cost of the drug in 2013, when there was a sharp uptick and, doing further research, learn that Valeant purchased the drug in 2013… A similar pattern is intriguing with insulin formulations.

HIV

You can examine many drugs similarly. As an infectious disease physician, I was disappointed that they have little data compiled yet on antibiotic costs, but they do have some on HIV drug development and how enormously expensive that is to treat.

This gets us back to the issue of how political decisions—for example, Mike Pence’s defunding Planned Parenthood and initially forbidding needle exchanges have profound impacts on citizens' personal health and autonomy, but also on public health, ultimately needlessly costing taxpayers billions of dollars. Pence's puritanical decisions in Indiana resulted in almost 200 more cases of HIV among his citizens.

A 2010 study combined estimates of lifetime treatment costs (2009 dollars), with the medical savings from HIV infections averted by U.S. prevention programs from 1991-2006 to be $ 129.9 billion with 361,878 HIV infections averted.

Other datasets

One of the beauties of Enigma is that it has compiled its data from multiple agencies into one rather user-friendly interface. Enigma collates data from:

I was especially happy to see the detail about adverse events they have compiled. Chan noted that more than 60% of adults take at least one prescription medicine. According to the AHRQ (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) nearly one-third of adults in the United States take 5 or more medications.

A report from the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics for 2015 noted that there were 4.4 billion prescriptions dispensed in 2015, up 1% from the prior year. The demand was far higher for antidepressants and anti-diabetes medicines, each of which increased about 10% in 2015! It will be interesting to see what the increase is in the next few months for various classes of drugs.

Adverse drug events (ADE) affect about 2 million people in the U.S. each year, and kill about 100,000. ADEs account for nearly 700,000 emergency department visits and 100,000 hospitalizations each year, and affect nearly 5% of hospitalized patients.

Tracking down the cause of adverse events (AEs) is difficult and compounded by the number of patients taking multiple prescriptions. A patient’s other underlying illnesses, or comorbidities, also make attribution more difficult. This is why early clinical trials have extreme restrictions on who can participate in a clinical trial, excluding real-world patients with multiple medical problems. Clinical trials include a small number of a rarefied group of patients, and are not representative of what happens in the real world, after drug approval and marketing. If a side effect is uncommon, it may not be detected until millions of people take the drug—and then, only if the reaction is severe enough to be recognized.

Adverse events are also notoriously underreported by both patients and physicians. Sometimes, the side effect is misdiagnosed, as I recently learned. In this case, I was placed on metformin for “pre-diabetes.” When I developed a very painful peripheral neuropathy, physicians attributed it to underlying diabetes. Fortunately, a Twitter friend mentioned that metformin can cause a B12 deficiency. The neuropathy promptly resolved once we corrected the new B12 deficiency. None of three physicians was aware of this relatively unusual side effect of this commonly prescribed med, and none of us reported it. So data on AEs is fragmented and insufficient. Enigma’s enormous databases and computing capabilities will better allow analysis and detection of problems. Chan also notes that this type of data might also detect problems with a drug manufacturer’s supply chain (such as contamination with a harmful chemical) more rapidly (similar to the melamine contamination of baby formula in 2008).

In addition to drug AE’s, Enigma has a similar extensive database of CDC recalls for various types of contamination, from adulterated products to an array of infectious diseases.

You can explore the new Enigma healthcare site here, and there is an explainer that further illustrates how to use the site.

Open source

Having grown too cynical in recent years, I was a bit surprised at Enigma’s generosity in making so much data publicly available and being willing to support curious researchers and journalists. They view this as a win-win strategy. First, potential client companies can see the value of using these linked datasets. Second, staff enjoy the opportunity to be innovative and test out new technology. This is analogous to the model that Stanley Litow explained is behind IBM’s Impact Grants program. IBM’s World Community Grid has supported 27 research projects and all data is, again, open-source.

Enigma responded that they believe “when data is public and connected--we can better understand and solve some of the world's most challenging problems. This Lab, and all of our Labs projects, speak directly to our vision of empowering people to interpret and improve the world around them.” It’s refreshing and particularly inspiring to me in these troubled times to come across a company hoping to work collaboratively and synergistically with the public to further science. I look forward to learning more from their discoveries from this exciting endeavor.