PM Says Demonetisation Is A 'Yagna' Against Corruption, Salutes People For Their Patience
PM Says Demonetisation Is A 'Yagna' Against Corruption, Salutes People For Their Patience
PM Says Demonetisation Is A 'Yagna' Against Corruption, Salutes People For Their Patience A month after the surprise announcement of demonetisation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has likened it to 'yagna' or sacrifice. In a series of tweets, the PM again defended his decision to scrap high value currency, but this time focussed on its benefit for rural India and wage labourers, the people who have been the most affected by the cash crunch. The PM also made a mention of "a degree of inconvenience" due to the scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes and said that it was something he had alerted the country to and that "this short term pain will pave way for long term gains." "I salute the people of India for wholeheartedly participating in this ongoing Yagna against corruption, terrorism & black money," he said. His focus though was on what he called "the backbone of the nation" that is farmers, traders and labourers. "The Government's decision has several gains for farmers, traders, labourers, who are the economic backbone of our nation. No longer will the progress and prosperity of rural India be curtailed by corruption and black money. Our villages must get their due," Modi said. The PM also called demonetisation "a historic opportunity" to move to a cashless, technologically-advanced India. "My young friends, you are agents of change who will make India corruption free and ensure more cashless transactions. Together, we must ensure India defeats black money. This will empower the poor, neo-middle class, middle class & benefit future generations," he said. I salute the people of India for wholeheartedly participating in this ongoing Yagna against corruption, terrorism & black money. My young friends, you are agents of change who will make India corruption free & ensure more cashless transactions. https://t.co/47rdrig0em

A month after the surprise announcement of demonetisation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has likened it to 'yagna' or sacrifice.

Reuters

In a series of tweets, the PM again defended his decision to scrap high value currency, but this time focussed on its benefit for rural India and wage labourers, the people who have been the most affected by the cash crunch.

BCCL

The PM also made a mention of "a degree of inconvenience" due to the scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes and said that it was something he had alerted the country to and that "this short term pain will pave way for long term gains."

"I salute the people of India for wholeheartedly participating in this ongoing Yagna against corruption, terrorism & black money," he said.

Reuters

His focus though was on what he called "the backbone of the nation" that is farmers, traders and labourers.

"The Government's decision has several gains for farmers, traders, labourers, who are the economic backbone of our nation. No longer will the progress and prosperity of rural India be curtailed by corruption and black money. Our villages must get their due," Modi said.

AFP

The PM also called demonetisation "a historic opportunity" to move to a cashless, technologically-advanced India.

"My young friends, you are agents of change who will make India corruption free and ensure more cashless transactions. Together, we must ensure India defeats black money. This will empower the poor, neo-middle class, middle class & benefit future generations," he said.

I salute the people of India for wholeheartedly participating in this ongoing Yagna against corruption, terrorism & black money. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) December 8, 2016

My young friends, you are agents of change who will make India corruption free & ensure more cashless transactions. https://t.co/47rdrig0em — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) December 8, 2016

Earlier, in the day, opposition leaders observed a 'Black Day' in Parliament premises to mark one month of the announcement of demonetisation, with Rahul Gandhi launching a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying his "foolish decision" has "devastated" the country.