Venezuelan man has entire head tattooed to look like Captain America’s enemy
A real life RED SKULL: Venezuelan father transforms into supervillain


This is the Venezuelan father who spent £30,000 transforming himself into the fictional Nazi supervillain Red Skull.

Henry Rodriguez, from Caracas, has undergone multiple facial modifications over the years so that he resembles the Captain America comics character.

Images show the 37-year-old's journey as he first gets his eyes tattooed black, has implants inserted into his head and then undergoes a painful operation to have part of his nose removed.

Scroll down for video

This is the Venezuelan father who spent £30,000 transforming himself into the fictional Nazi supervillain Red Skull

Henry Rodriguez, from Caracas, has undergone multiple facial modifications over the years so that he resembles the Captain America comics character

Images show the 37-year-old's journey as he first gets his eyes tattooed black, has implants inserted into his head and then undergoes a painful operation to have part of his nose removed

Other shots show how Rodriguez interacts with his adoring three-year-old son, Aaron

Other shots show how Rodriguez interacts with his adoring three-year-old son, Aaron.

Red Skull first appeared in 1947 as the Nazi agent arch-enemy of Marvel hero Captain America and most recently appeared in the 2011 film Captain America: The First Avenger, played by Hugo Weaving.

'I would like to highlight that I came from a very modest and traditional family,' Rodriguez said.

'It wasn't easy for my family to accept my lifestyle but, even so, they are still my family and a part of me.

Red Skull first appeared in 1947 as the Nazi agent arch-enemy of Marvel hero Captain America and most recently appeared in the 2011 film Captain America: The First Avenger, played by Hugo Weaving

After meeting up with med-school dropout Emilio Gonzalez, who specialises in tattooing and extreme body surgery, Mr Damon 'knew that this was his opportunity,' a friend said

'My son Aarón Rodrigo is three-years-old. If he accepts me and loves me I don't care about what other people would say. What matters to me is being happy and accepting myself. We will always be judged.

After meeting up with med-school dropout Emilio Gonzalez, who specialises in tattooing and extreme body surgery, Mr Damon 'knew that this was his opportunity,' a friend said.

'With tattoos or not, implants or not implants we are all the same and we are the only ones who can achieve what we want.'

Henry has had to deal with some prejudice since his modifications, but said family is the only thing that matters to him.

'Since I was a child, I've always liked what was different, extrovert and I am a comic fanatic and I love the Marvel Universe,' said Henry.

'For that reason I decided to be who I am now and I feel good with myself. That's the most important thing.

Transformation: 37-year-old Rodriguez's work took around 130 hours to complete

'I started this project around seven years ago. I wanted to turn myself into this amazing comic character who I've really admired since I was little.

'I feel like there are similarities between this character and I regarding to personality and attitude.

'It is important to say that the only thing I don't have in common with him is his Nazi ideology.

'As for his physical appearance, I've always been attracted to that unique shape, his extrovert personality and uniqueness.'

Before the surgery, Mr Rodriguez underwent several physical and psychological tests, according to his surgeon.

Before the surgery, Mr Rodriguez underwent several physical and psychological tests, according to his 'surgeon' Mr Gonzalez

Henry has had to deal with some prejudice since his modifications, but said family is the only thing that matters to him

Rodriguez said of his son: 'If he accepts me and loves me I don't care about what other people would say'

Rodriguez's work took around 130 hours to complete.

'My first transformation was the eye tattoo using a technique called inkeyeball,' he said.

'After this I got two implants under my skin. It took around two years because it is a process that must be done in stages and it took longer than expected.

'The implant that I have in the middle part of my forehead was the first one. After that I got the implants in my eyebrows and finally the ones in my cheeks.

'Then we carried on with the amputation of the nose and changed the shape on my ears. The most recent modification was the forked (viper) tongue.