Man who lost his penis to flesh-eating superbug sues Essex hospital
Man who lost his penis to flesh-eating superbug sues Essex hospital
A cancer patient is to sue an Essex hospital after he lost most of his penis to a flesh-eating superbug. Andrew Lane, 61, contracted the infection while undergoing an operation to have his prostate gland removed at Southend Hospital. He said his bowel was punctured during the procedure which led to the infection. Read more Women are leaving hospital after childbirth with PTSD due to bad care Woman spends five days in hospital after homemade herbal tea mix-up Sepsis 'should be treated with same urgency as heart attacks' According to NHS England , is a rare but serious condition which releases toxins which damage nearby tissue causing swelling and blisters . If left untreated it could lead to sepsis – which can be fatal. Mr Lane, from Thurrock in Essex, said he had had to have so much damaged tissue removed he lost most of his penis and was left with a protruding stomach where the outer tissue had been “eaten away”. He said he also had to use a catheter and a colostomy bag for two years after the operation in 2013. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK   Rex     11 December 2016   Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity   PA wire     8 December 2016   Gina Miller   Reuters     5 December 2016   Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier   PA wire     5 December 2016   Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences   PA wire     5 December 2016   Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing   Getty  “It has just been a horrendous experience. I thought I was going to die," Mr Lane said. “That night I was taken to theatre three times while the surgeons took more and more tissue away. “I was super-fit before all this. I had a good body, but now I look like I'm nine months pregnant. I can't ever bear to look at myself naked.” The former architectural draftsmen said he felt unable to return to his job and now works as carer. “I'd never even heard of the bug before and had no idea of the damage it could do, but if speaking out can raise awareness and stop one more person having to go through what I've been through then it will have been worth it”, he said. Nick Greaves, a clinical negligence specialist at law firm Slater and Gordon, who is representing Mr Lane said: "Mr Lane believed he was going into hospital for a routine operation and would be home within days.   Sepsis: How flu-like symptoms can have you fighting for your life "Instead, he has been left with permanent and life-changing injuries that have turned his world upside down. "Although nothing can change that, he wants to know what happened and ensure it is fully investigated and everything possible done to prevent anyone else having to go through the same ordeal." A spokesman for Southend Hospital Foundation Trust declined to comment when approached by as it was would be “inappropriate” to comment on an ongoing case. At its last inspection by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) in March 2016, the hospital was rated as “requiring improvement” but the Surgery department was rated as “good”. More about: Andrew Lane necrotising faciitis NHS Southend hospital Comments

A cancer patient is to sue an Essex hospital after he lost most of his penis to a flesh-eating superbug.

Andrew Lane, 61, contracted the infection necrotising fasciitis while undergoing an operation to have his prostate gland removed at Southend Hospital.

He said his bowel was punctured during the procedure which led to the infection.

According to NHS England, necrotising faciitis is a rare but serious condition which releases toxins which damage nearby tissue causing swelling and blisters.

If left untreated it could lead to sepsis – which can be fatal.

Mr Lane, from Thurrock in Essex, said he had had to have so much damaged tissue removed he lost most of his penis and was left with a protruding stomach where the outer tissue had been “eaten away”.

He said he also had to use a catheter and a colostomy bag for two years after the operation in 2013.

UK news in pictures







10 show all UK news in pictures

















1/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

2/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

3/10 11 December 2016 Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK Rex

4/10 11 December 2016 Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity PA wire

5/10 8 December 2016 Gina Miller Reuters

6/10 5 December 2016 Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier PA wire

7/10 5 December 2016 Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London PA wire

8/10 5 December 2016 A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London PA wire

9/10 5 December 2016 Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences PA wire

10/10 5 December 2016 Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing Getty

“It has just been a horrendous experience. I thought I was going to die," Mr Lane said.

“That night I was taken to theatre three times while the surgeons took more and more tissue away.

“I was super-fit before all this. I had a good body, but now I look like I'm nine months pregnant. I can't ever bear to look at myself naked.”

Andrew Lane says he was left looking 'nine months pregnant' after the bacteria damaged the outer tissue of his abdomen (PA)

The former architectural draftsmen said he felt unable to return to his job and now works as carer.

“I'd never even heard of the bug before and had no idea of the damage it could do, but if speaking out can raise awareness and stop one more person having to go through what I've been through then it will have been worth it”, he said.

Nick Greaves, a clinical negligence specialist at law firm Slater and Gordon, who is representing Mr Lane said: "Mr Lane believed he was going into hospital for a routine operation and would be home within days.

"Instead, he has been left with permanent and life-changing injuries that have turned his world upside down.

"Although nothing can change that, he wants to know what happened and ensure it is fully investigated and everything possible done to prevent anyone else having to go through the same ordeal."

A spokesman for Southend Hospital Foundation Trust declined to comment when approached by The Independent as it was would be “inappropriate” to comment on an ongoing case.

At its last inspection by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) in March 2016, the hospital was rated as “requiring improvement” but the Surgery department was rated as “good”.