Met investigates claims that officers punched detained suspect

Press Association                                               Scotland Yard is investigating allegations that one of its officers repeatedly punched a man who had been detained, after footage of the apparent incident was posted on the internet. A three-minute video on the Daily Mail website appears to show a male officer striking a topless man several times and telling the suspect to “shush”. The footage, said to have been recorded last summer in the Ruislip area of west London , shows four officers in short-sleeved shirts appearing to detain the suspect, who repeatedly howls in pain and begs for mercy. The suspect, who is apparently under arrest for assault, can be heard shouting: “No, please. Oh my goodness, no, no, no, no, please.” The suspect is then told: “If you spit, I’ll fucking hurt you.” A female officer tells the suspect, who has his head covered, to calm down, before he is put in the back of the police van. A Metropolitan police spokesman said: “We are looking into it [the video].” Topics  Metropolitan police   London   Police

Video appears to show four officers striking topless man several times during alleged incident last summer

Scotland Yard is investigating allegations that one of its officers repeatedly punched a man who had been detained, after footage of the apparent incident was posted on the internet.

A three-minute video on the Daily Mail website appears to show a male officer striking a topless man several times and telling the suspect to “shush”.

The footage, said to have been recorded last summer in the Ruislip area of west London, shows four officers in short-sleeved shirts appearing to detain the suspect, who repeatedly howls in pain and begs for mercy.



The suspect, who is apparently under arrest for assault, can be heard shouting: “No, please. Oh my goodness, no, no, no, no, please.”



The suspect is then told: “If you spit, I’ll fucking hurt you.”



A female officer tells the suspect, who has his head covered, to calm down, before he is put in the back of the police van.

A Metropolitan police spokesman said: “We are looking into it [the video].”