YG And Lil Wayne Keep It "Trill" On New Song
YG And Lil Wayne Keep It "Trill" On New Song
YG and Lil Wayne always bring it when they hit the studio together, and their latest collaboration “Trill” continues the hot streak. Weezy kicks off the track by flexing about his bank account and touches on his time in prison , while YG offers a more fierce example of how he keeps it trill. “I got get it keep a 40 Cal. with me/Ain’t no industry nigga, all my life I been a trill nigga,” he spits. The two rappers most recently linked up on YG’s standout track “I Got a Question,” and of course enjoyed success with the remix of YG’s “My Nigga” back in 2014. Production for “Trill” comes courtesy of Toronto representative Boi-1da with co-production credit for T-Minus. "Trill" caps off a big 2016 for YG, who not only avoided the sophomore slump with which featured the anti-Trump anthem of the year in "FDT," but also dropped the mixtape and announced plans to release in 2017. The track comes as an exclusive through Red Bull’s 20 Before 17 series, which looks at the biggest musical moments Red Bull had to offer in 2016. Check out “Trill” below and experience more of Red Bull’s 20 Before 17 featuring the likes of Erykah Badu, Mike Will Made-It, and more here .

YG and Lil Wayne always bring it when they hit the studio together, and their latest collaboration “Trill” continues the hot streak. Weezy kicks off the track by flexing about his bank account and touches on his time in prison, while YG offers a more fierce example of how he keeps it trill. “I got get it keep a 40 Cal. with me/Ain’t no industry nigga, all my life I been a trill nigga,” he spits.

The two rappers most recently linked up on YG’s Still Brazy standout track “I Got a Question,” and of course enjoyed success with the remix of YG’s “My Nigga” back in 2014. Production for “Trill” comes courtesy of Toronto representative Boi-1da with co-production credit for T-Minus.

"Trill" caps off a big 2016 for YG, who not only avoided the sophomore slump with Still Brazy which featured the anti-Trump anthem of the year in "FDT," but also dropped the Red Friday mixtape and announced plans to release Just Re'd Up 3 in 2017.

The track comes as an exclusive through Red Bull’s 20 Before 17 series, which looks at the biggest musical moments Red Bull had to offer in 2016. Check out “Trill” below and experience more of Red Bull’s 20 Before 17 featuring the likes of Erykah Badu, Mike Will Made-It, and more here.