Donald Trump Gets Royally Trolled By The Man Who 'Really Makes' The iPhones & It’s So Honest, It's Hilarious
Trump Gets Trolled By The Man Who 'Really Makes' The iPhones & It’s So Honest, It's Hilarious
Donald Trump Gets Royally Trolled By The Man Who 'Really Makes' The iPhones & It’s So Honest, It's Hilarious

To say that shit just got real, real quick, between US President-elect Donald Trump and Terry Gou, CEO of Foxconn Technology Group, would be a real understatement. It’s the literal manifestation of the phrase “shots fired” or “apply burnol for serious burn”. LOL!

In an open letter published on Bloomberg, Terry Gou -- a shrewd, no-nonsense businessman, the man who owns factories, manpower, controlling the global production and supply chain of Apple iPhone and other mass produced smartphone handsets that are largely made in China -- gave a fitting reply to Donald Trump’s never-ending rhetoric - of bringing manufacturing jobs back to America and making the US great again. Blimey!

Only, Terry Gou wasn’t drinking any of Donald Trump’s koolaid, giving the US President-elect a substantial piece of his mind (and dare we say business acumen), and almost calling him out on his audacious campaign promises, trying to land the real-estate magnate’s flight of fancy rudely back on terra firma.

Terry Gou starts off by congratulating Donald Trump on his election victory, but that’s about where the pleasantries end abruptly. Quoting excerpts from the Bloomberg open letter below:

“We have a lot in common, you (Trump) and I (Gou). We're both billionaires (although I am richer), we both like to build things, we're both married to gorgeous younger women, and we both hate Wall Street.I know that you've been telling your constituents that you're going to create a lot of jobs, so I want to give you some advice. First, you don't actually have to create any jobs, you just have to make people think you're going to create them. I am sure you're familiar with the concept.”

After this fantastic opening, Mr Gou continues on the offensive:

“All I need to do is lay out my demands and watch while the bureaucrats and politicians argue about whether they can afford to have me or risk falling short on a campaign pledge. So that's where you and I need to talk. I hear you've been telling people you're going to get Apple to build stuff in America. Well, you see, Tim Cook doesn't build things, I do. In fact, I got $75 billion in revenue from them last year.”

It doesn’t end there, as Mr Gou tries to pull out all the stops:

“I am a doer, Mr. Trump. I get things done. When Apple told me to start making iPhones in Brazil to get around import tariffs, I made it happen. It didn't create much employment, mind you, because I just exported pre-fabricated iPhones for the locals to slot together -- kind of like Lego -- but it got the job done. And who do you think paid for it? Not me.If you want iPhones to be made in America, I can make that happen, too. Heck, I can set up a production line in Trump Towers if you like, but the costs will be yuuuge. But just remember: Like that wall you're planning to build, somebody's going to have to pay. And it won't be me, let me tell you.”

We’ve just highlighted the best parts of the letter here, as throughout Mr Gou’s “advice” to Mr Trump, he mixes clever wordplay with now familiar Trump tropes -- Mexican workers, The Wall, Twitter messages, and sounding almost condescending of Trump’s business acumen.

Why this response from Mr Gou, one would wonder? Only because Trump’s been poking a rather large stick into an unpredictable hornet’s nest, threatening China and trying to take manufacturing jobs away from the mainland.

Mr Gou, a proud Chinese businessman, was obviously having none of that hogwash. The result is an epic takedown of truly Presidential scale!

Truly well played, sir!

Despite all the jest, though, US News points to a Nikkei Asian Review story citing anonymous sources reporting that Apple had asked Foxconn to consider moving iPhone production to the U.S back in June 2016. However, Nikkei's sources claimed Foxconn had cost-related concerns about such a massive move. And after all’s said and done, Foxconn’s US expansion may not be entirely ruled out, if the US Govt gives substantial relief in the form of tax breaks and other incentives.