Madonna Sings the Hits, Fights Her 'Rebellious' Reputation on 'Carpool Karaoke': Watch
Madonna Sings the Hits, Fights Her 'Rebellious' Reputation on 'Carpool Karaoke': Watch
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Madonna Sings the Hits, Fights Her 'Rebellious' Reputation on 'Carpool Karaoke': Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  has booked another music icon. joined host James Corden on Wednesday night for a "Carpool Karaoke" segment, which saw the duo face tough New York drivers, "vogue" a bit and addressed one of Corden's favorite topics: musical theater. When a bus cuts them off in traffic, Madonna tries to convince Corden to "drive up next to bus, I want to give him what's what." When he refuses, she chides him for "letting people get away with bad behavior."  She also argued against her "rebellious" reputation. "I'm quite square," she told Corden. "My work is rebellious but my lifestyle is not rebellious." On her love life, Corden asked what she was looking for in a man, assuming she doesn't "have a type." "I think the best thing in the world is to be married to someone funny," she said, but she told Corden he could step it up in the fashion department, calling his shirt "very Seattle 1990s." Madonna also shocked Corden when she admitted to "full French kissing" . During the drive, they sang Madonna's hits including "Vogue," "Bitch I'm Madonna" (featuring the star twerking in the seat), "Papa Don't Preach," "Express Yourself" and "Ray of Light." They even sang a bit of Madonna's song from Evita, "Don't Cry For Me Argentina."  Madonna, who concert special debuts Friday on Showtime, joins a growing list of famous singers in the "Carpool Karaoke" passenger seat, including and Michelle Obama. Watch the video below.

Madonna Sings the Hits, Fights Her 'Rebellious' Reputation on 'Carpool Karaoke': Watch

The Late Late Show has booked another music icon.

Madonna joined host James Corden on Wednesday night for a "Carpool Karaoke" segment, which saw the duo face tough New York drivers, "vogue" a bit and addressed one of Corden's favorite topics: musical theater.

When a bus cuts them off in traffic, Madonna tries to convince Corden to "drive up next to bus, I want to give him what's what." When he refuses, she chides him for "letting people get away with bad behavior."

She also argued against her "rebellious" reputation. "I'm quite square," she told Corden. "My work is rebellious but my lifestyle is not rebellious."

On her love life, Corden asked what she was looking for in a man, assuming she doesn't "have a type." "I think the best thing in the world is to be married to someone funny," she said, but she told Corden he could step it up in the fashion department, calling his shirt "very Seattle 1990s." Madonna also shocked Corden when she admitted to "full French kissing" Michael Jackson.

During the drive, they sang Madonna's hits including "Vogue," "Bitch I'm Madonna" (featuring the star twerking in the seat), "Papa Don't Preach," "Express Yourself" and "Ray of Light." They even sang a bit of Madonna's song from Evita, "Don't Cry For Me Argentina."

Madonna, who concert special Madonna: Rebel Heart debuts Friday on Showtime, joins a growing list of famous singers in the "Carpool Karaoke" passenger seat, including Adele, Justin Bieber, Sia, One Direction, Jennifer Lopez and Michelle Obama.

Watch the video below.