Cup for Ben: Chinese factory to grant Christmas wish for boy with autism

Cup for Ben: Chinese factory to grant Christmas wish for boy with autism Updated 1455 GMT (2255 HKT) December 8, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Marc Carter posted on social media that he needed a new cup for his son Soon, Carter was inundated with offers of support, including from the manufacturer A boy with autism needed a replacement for his beloved sippy cup -- instead he got a thousand. Find Ben a @tommeetippee_UK cup like THIS #autism  #CupForBen  PLEASE SHARE!! pic.twitter.com/SzwIYs0Pl8 Just took some pics of Ben for a piece @theipaper are running on Saturday. I asked him to smile & he gave me one of his finest. So gorgeous! pic.twitter.com/5b1Jr72EiG Cups may be ready for Christmas The cup production was also down to the overwhelming love and support shown across social channels, so BIG THANKS to you all too. #CupForBen  pic.twitter.com/CRd26AGOji 'You've been incredible'

Story highlights Marc Carter posted on social media that he needed a new cup for his son

Soon, Carter was inundated with offers of support, including from the manufacturer

(CNN) A boy with autism needed a replacement for his beloved sippy cup -- instead he got a thousand.

Four machines and a dozen workers in a Chinese factory will be repurposed for a whole week, just to make about 1,000 Pearlized Green Tommee Tippee cups for 14-year-old Ben Carter.

"About a week was spent to retrieve the tools and to check on their condition ... The (original) cup was produced between 2001 to 2003 and production was ceased in December 2003," Mayborn Group Regional Marketing Manager Michelle Lo told CNN.

It was the heartwarming story that went viral around the world.

Marc Carter needed to find a new cup for his severely autistic son, Ben. He'd had it since he was two years old and it was the only thing he'd drink from, refusing other vessels even to the point of dehydration.

Read More