Giants' Nikita Whitlock says home hit with 'KKK' and 'Go back to Africa' graffiti

New York Giants full-back Nikita Whitlock said that burglars left disturbing racist graffiti during a break-in at his New Jersey apartment on Tuesday night. Whitlock said the burglars took jewelry and also scrawled a swastika, “KKK” and “Go back to Africa” during the incident. “It’s about to be 2017,” Whitlock, who is from Texas, told New York’s WCBS-TV. “Oppression, violence, racism, hatred, violence, there’s no need for that.” Pictures from the apartment shown by WCBS-TV also appeared to show “Trump” written among the graffiti. Whitlock, his wife Ashley and their two children were out at the time of the burglary. Whitlock added it was the second time they had been broken into. “It’s very disgusting, actually. It’s very disheartening,” Ashley Whitlock said. “You hear about things that do happen, but you never think, ‘Oh, this is going to happen to me.’” Nikita Whitlock was picked up by the Giants in 2014 after going undrafted from Wake Forest. He was mainly used on special teams last season but also played some time as a defensive tackle, recording a sack. He was suspended in September for 10 games after violating the NFL’s policy on performance enhancing drugs. “It just re-establishes that no matter where you are, no matter who you are, this can happen to you,” said Nikita Whitlock. Topics  New York Giants   NFL   US sports

New York Giants full-back Nikita Whitlock said that burglars left disturbing racist graffiti during a break-in at his New Jersey apartment on Tuesday night.

Whitlock said the burglars took jewelry and also scrawled a swastika, “KKK” and “Go back to Africa” during the incident. “It’s about to be 2017,” Whitlock, who is from Texas, told New York’s WCBS-TV. “Oppression, violence, racism, hatred, violence, there’s no need for that.” Pictures from the apartment shown by WCBS-TV also appeared to show “Trump” written among the graffiti.

Whitlock, his wife Ashley and their two children were out at the time of the burglary. Whitlock added it was the second time they had been broken into. “It’s very disgusting, actually. It’s very disheartening,” Ashley Whitlock said. “You hear about things that do happen, but you never think, ‘Oh, this is going to happen to me.’”

Nikita Whitlock was picked up by the Giants in 2014 after going undrafted from Wake Forest. He was mainly used on special teams last season but also played some time as a defensive tackle, recording a sack. He was suspended in September for 10 games after violating the NFL’s policy on performance enhancing drugs.

“It just re-establishes that no matter where you are, no matter who you are, this can happen to you,” said Nikita Whitlock.