This is how much a coffee date with Ivanka Trump will cost you
This is how much a coffee date with Ivanka Trump will cost you
A coffee date with Ivanka Trump will set you back a staggering £13,800, at least according to the bidder willing to pay that. The auction website Charity Buzz is currently offering one lucky bidder the chance to “enjoy coffee with Ivanka Trump in NYC of DC” with proceeds going to her brother Eric Trump ’s foundation to benefit St Jude’s Children Research Hospital. Despite the divison her father and President-elect Donald Trump causes, the highest bid currently stands at $17,500 (£13,800). President Donald Trump life in pictures               President Donald Trump life in pictures       Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York   Reuters        Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open.
She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996   Reuters        U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open   Reuters        Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,'   Reuters        Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King.  Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee   Reuters        Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park.  Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City   Reuters        Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.'   Reuters        Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior   Reuters        Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles   Reuters        U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland   Reuters  Nine people have placed bids so far and there are 12 days until the winner will be declared. On the website, the estimated value of this prize is $50,000. The description of the prize explains Ms Trump is executive vice president of the Trump Organisation and the president and CEO of the Ivanka Trump brand and co-founder, along with her brothers, of Trump hotels.   That she is also about to become the First Daughter is hinted at under a long list of terms and conditions attached to the prize which gives an indication to her new-found increased higher profile. Such t&c’s include the winner passing a criminal background check and being approved by the secret service (who will also be present throughout the entire meeting) and approval by the Trump Organisation. More about: ivanka trump Comments

A coffee date with Ivanka Trump will set you back a staggering £13,800, at least according to the bidder willing to pay that.

The auction website Charity Buzz is currently offering one lucky bidder the chance to “enjoy coffee with Ivanka Trump in NYC of DC” with proceeds going to her brother Eric Trump’s foundation to benefit St Jude’s Children Research Hospital.

Despite the divison her father and President-elect Donald Trump causes, the highest bid currently stands at $17,500 (£13,800).

President Donald Trump life in pictures







16 show all President Donald Trump life in pictures





























1/16 Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence Reuters

2/16 Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York Reuters

3/16 Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open. She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996 Reuters

4/16 U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa Reuters

5/16 Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open Reuters

6/16 Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,' Reuters

7/16 Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King. Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee Reuters

8/16 Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park. Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision Reuters

9/16 Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City Reuters

10/16 Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.' Reuters

11/16 Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

12/16 Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

13/16 Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka Reuters

14/16 Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior Reuters

15/16 Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles Reuters

16/16 U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland Reuters

Nine people have placed bids so far and there are 12 days until the winner will be declared. On the website, the estimated value of this prize is $50,000.

The description of the prize explains Ms Trump is executive vice president of the Trump Organisation and the president and CEO of the Ivanka Trump brand and co-founder, along with her brothers, of Trump hotels.

That she is also about to become the First Daughter is hinted at under a long list of terms and conditions attached to the prize which gives an indication to her new-found increased higher profile.

Such t&c’s include the winner passing a criminal background check and being approved by the secret service (who will also be present throughout the entire meeting) and approval by the Trump Organisation.