Next week’s Arctic blast could mean two bouts of wintry precipitation in Washington

The coldest air of the season and likely the coldest air since last February is likely to barge into Washington late next week. As the cold air arrives and exits, it may present opportunities for some frozen precipitation. The frigid air has its origins in Siberia and northern Canada and is poised to plunge into the northern Plains early next week. Daytime highs across portions of the Dakotas and Minnesota may remain below zero Tuesday and Wednesday. That frigid air will then charge into the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic on Wednesday into Thursday, moderating somewhat but remaining very cold.   By Thursday and Friday, the mother lode of cold air will arrive in Washington. Our daytime highs are likely to struggle to reach freezing and our nighttime temperatures are almost certain to dip into the teens in D.C.’s colder suburbs, if not much of the region. When the Arctic front ushering in the cold arrives Wednesday, a few precipitation scenarios are possible. 1) The front could come through mostly dry, with perhaps just some flurries in its wake. (Last night’s European model advertised this possibility.) 2) Rain showers could change to a few conversational snow showers as the cold air spills into the region, which this morning’s GFS predicted. 3) A wave of low pressure could form along the front as it sinks south of our area, offering a period of light snow before moving off. (This morning’s European model advertised this possibility although if you take it literally temperatures would be too warm for snow to accumulate.) It is too soon to say which one of these scenarios is most likely. The next chance for frozen precipitation could occur between Friday night and the weekend of Dec. 17-18, as the cold air begins to exit. We should stress this is a particularly low confidence forecast as it is toward the tail end of how far out we can offer a reasonable prediction. We only mention it because it is fairly common for some wintry weather to develop when an Arctic air mass retreats. The most significant question for this event will be how much cold air lingers when any precipitation arrives. This will determine what type(s) of precipitation occur. The average of European model simulations keeps high temperatures in the 30s while the GFS model ensemble warms temperatures well into the 40s. Individual models simulations even suggest temperatures could bounce into the 50s. The amount of warming will depend on whether a strong area of low pressure cuts toward the Great Lakes or takes a more southerly track, which would hold in more of the cold air over the Mid-Atlantic. Last night’s operational European model predicted a more northerly track (see black L annotated in figure below) but held the cold air (due to developing weak low pressure offshore). This morning’s European model also simulated a northerly track but did not hold onto the cold air. Below you can get a sense about how much uncertainty there is in the forecast of the where any storm may track. Notice how far spread out the different Ls are, which indicate the position of low pressure centers in different model simulations. The average of last night’s European model simulations argues for two areas of low pressure, one off the coast and another over the Great Lakes. The presence of a coastal low would help hold in the cold air.  The annotated arrow on the map above shows the direction of the flow east of the mountains, which is from the north — indicative of cold air damming. However, some simulations only feature one low pressure center that tracks toward the Great Lakes.  Such a track would offer a much warmer solution and probably more rain than frozen precipitation. Generally, the basic pattern is not one favorable for a major snow event but you can’t rule out the potential for a mix of wintry precipitation. Today’s GFS shows potential for some accumulating snow and then ice before any changeover to rain. The event timing could range from Friday night all the way to Monday (Dec. 19). The later it occurs the more likely the precipitation would fall as rain. Still, we’re talking about a 10-day-plus forecast and, as Jason recently noted, they are rarely correct .



Simulation of cold air at high altitudes spilling into the U.S. between Sunday and Thursday next week. (PivotalWeather.com)

The coldest air of the season and likely the coldest air since last February is likely to barge into Washington late next week. As the cold air arrives and exits, it may present opportunities for some frozen precipitation.

The frigid air has its origins in Siberia and northern Canada and is poised to plunge into the northern Plains early next week. Daytime highs across portions of the Dakotas and Minnesota may remain below zero Tuesday and Wednesday. That frigid air will then charge into the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic on Wednesday into Thursday, moderating somewhat but remaining very cold.

[Polar vortex unleashed: Severe cold snap likely in U.S. next week]

By Thursday and Friday, the mother lode of cold air will arrive in Washington. Our daytime highs are likely to struggle to reach freezing and our nighttime temperatures are almost certain to dip into the teens in D.C.’s colder suburbs, if not much of the region.

Wintry precipitation possible as cold air comes in Dec. 14

When the Arctic front ushering in the cold arrives Wednesday, a few precipitation scenarios are possible.

1) The front could come through mostly dry, with perhaps just some flurries in its wake. (Last night’s European model advertised this possibility.)

2) Rain showers could change to a few conversational snow showers as the cold air spills into the region, which this morning’s GFS predicted.



The GFS model shows some conversational (non-accumulating) snow showers following the passage of an Arctic front late next Wednesday. (PivotalWeather.com)

3) A wave of low pressure could form along the front as it sinks south of our area, offering a period of light snow before moving off. (This morning’s European model advertised this possibility although if you take it literally temperatures would be too warm for snow to accumulate.)



European model simulates a bit of light snow in the D.C. area next Wednesday. (StormVistaWxModels.com)

It is too soon to say which one of these scenarios is most likely.

Wintry precipitation possible as cold air leaves (Dec. 17-18)

The next chance for frozen precipitation could occur between Friday night and the weekend of Dec. 17-18, as the cold air begins to exit.

We should stress this is a particularly low confidence forecast as it is toward the tail end of how far out we can offer a reasonable prediction. We only mention it because it is fairly common for some wintry weather to develop when an Arctic air mass retreats.

The most significant question for this event will be how much cold air lingers when any precipitation arrives. This will determine what type(s) of precipitation occur. The average of European model simulations keeps high temperatures in the 30s while the GFS model ensemble warms temperatures well into the 40s. Individual models simulations even suggest temperatures could bounce into the 50s.

The amount of warming will depend on whether a strong area of low pressure cuts toward the Great Lakes or takes a more southerly track, which would hold in more of the cold air over the Mid-Atlantic.

Last night’s operational European model predicted a more northerly track (see black L annotated in figure below) but held the cold air (due to developing weak low pressure offshore). This morning’s European model also simulated a northerly track but did not hold onto the cold air.

Below you can get a sense about how much uncertainty there is in the forecast of the where any storm may track. Notice how far spread out the different Ls are, which indicate the position of low pressure centers in different model simulations.

Simulations of possible location of low pressure areas at 7 p.m. on Dec. 17 from European model ensemble. (WeatherBell.com)

The average of last night’s European model simulations argues for two areas of low pressure, one off the coast and another over the Great Lakes. The presence of a coastal low would help hold in the cold air. The annotated arrow on the map above shows the direction of the flow east of the mountains, which is from the north — indicative of cold air damming.

However, some simulations only feature one low pressure center that tracks toward the Great Lakes. Such a track would offer a much warmer solution and probably more rain than frozen precipitation.

Generally, the basic pattern is not one favorable for a major snow event but you can’t rule out the potential for a mix of wintry precipitation. Today’s GFS shows potential for some accumulating snow and then ice before any changeover to rain.

The event timing could range from Friday night all the way to Monday (Dec. 19). The later it occurs the more likely the precipitation would fall as rain. Still, we’re talking about a 10-day-plus forecast and, as Jason recently noted, they are rarely correct.

Jason Samenow contributed to this post.