77 holiday packages were stolen from several homes. Now police are redelivering them.

Police in Howard County will redeliver dozens of holiday packages Thursday after arresting two people on charges of stealing them, authorities said. About 4:50 p.m. Wednesday, officers responded to the area of Greystone Lane in Columbia for a report that people driving a box truck were taking packages from in front of homes, Howard County police said in a statement. The box truck, with 77 stolen packages inside, was located within a minute, and Ernest Ohanyan, 25, and Amjad Jaouni, 28, both of Baltimore, were arrested, the statement said. Police said the recovered packages are from addresses on Tamar Drive, Dry Barley Lane, Four Foot Trail, Fire Cloud Court, Sanctuary Court, Dark Hawk Circle, Black Star Circle, Dry Stone Gate, Roan Stallion Lane, Dawn Whistle Lane, Sea Light Lane, Summer Cloud Way, Saddle Drive, Oak Bush Terrace and Silver Trumpet Drive in Columbia. Officers will try to deliver the packages Thursday evening, police said, and those that cannot be delivered may be picked up from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday at the Northern District Station at 3410 Courthouse Dr. in Ellicott City. Residents should bring photo identification or proof of address to receive their packages, police said, and those with questions should call 410-313-3200. Charges against Ohanyan and Jaouni were not specified but both were held on $5,000 bonds. Ohanyan was released but Jaouni is still being held at Howard County Detention Center, police said. Police encouraged residents to have packages delivered to work, ask neighbors to receive packages and report suspicious vehicles on neighborhood streets to deter thefts.

Police in Howard County will redeliver dozens of holiday packages Thursday after arresting two people on charges of stealing them, authorities said.

About 4:50 p.m. Wednesday, officers responded to the area of Greystone Lane in Columbia for a report that people driving a box truck were taking packages from in front of homes, Howard County police said in a statement.

The box truck, with 77 stolen packages inside, was located within a minute, and Ernest Ohanyan, 25, and Amjad Jaouni, 28, both of Baltimore, were arrested, the statement said.

Police said the recovered packages are from addresses on Tamar Drive, Dry Barley Lane, Four Foot Trail, Fire Cloud Court, Sanctuary Court, Dark Hawk Circle, Black Star Circle, Dry Stone Gate, Roan Stallion Lane, Dawn Whistle Lane, Sea Light Lane, Summer Cloud Way, Saddle Drive, Oak Bush Terrace and Silver Trumpet Drive in Columbia.

Officers will try to deliver the packages Thursday evening, police said, and those that cannot be delivered may be picked up from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday at the Northern District Station at 3410 Courthouse Dr. in Ellicott City.

Residents should bring photo identification or proof of address to receive their packages, police said, and those with questions should call 410-313-3200.

Charges against Ohanyan and Jaouni were not specified but both were held on $5,000 bonds. Ohanyan was released but Jaouni is still being held at Howard County Detention Center, police said.

Police encouraged residents to have packages delivered to work, ask neighbors to receive packages and report suspicious vehicles on neighborhood streets to deter thefts.