Are You Actually Taylor Swift?
Are You Actually Taylor Swift?
Are You Actually Taylor Swift?  You enjoy shaking things off, hangin’ with your squad, and spending hours on Tumblr. Yep, you’re Taylor Swift.     You’re definitely Taylor Swift. The red lips, the adorable cats, the standing in a nice dress staring at the sunset — it’s truly uncanny.     You’re more Taylor Swift than Taylor Swift herself. Whenever you go anywhere, people are probably like, “Holy shit, that’s Taylor Swift!!!” and line up for selfies and throw red lipstick and Polaroids at you. What a time to be alive!!!    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   Can You Tell How Old Kylie Jenner Is In These Photos?...    Serious Question: Is Oscar Isaac The Hottest Guy Ever?...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Check off everything that's a "yes":

Do you think 1989 was an iconic year?

Were you born in the year 1989?

Do you have hair?

Do you have blonde hair?

Have you ever thought about having blonde hair?

Do you have bangs?

Is your hair short?

Do you think you would rock the hell out of short hair?

Do you wear red lipstick?

Do you like red lipstick?

Do you own about 436 different tubes of red lipstick?

Do you live in New York City?

Would you like to welcome people to New York City?

Has New York City been waiting for you?

Do you have a lot of friends?

Do you like throwing parties with your friends?

Do you like wearing matching themed outfits with your friends at said parties?

Are you into having giant inflatable slides at parties?

Do you like holidays?

Are you obsessed with making baked goods during the holidays?

Are you super into birthdays?

Do you like throwing birthday parties with cool AF photo booths?

Do you have a cat?

Do you have two cats?

Have you ever dreamed about having a cat?

Does your cat sometimes remind you of a meerkat?

Do you like painting?

Have you ever painted pretty things for your friends?

Did you dress up as Deadpool for Halloween?

Do you like koalas?

Do you have an inflatable swan pool float?

Have you ever been in the woods?

Have you ever been out of the woods?

Do you like to shake things off?

Do you have a “red lip, classic thing” that people like?

Has your mom rescued someone on a Jet Ski?

Do you win a lot of awards?

Do you like dancing?

Are you lightning on your feet?

Do you like stalking people on Tumblr?

Do you have a Tumblr?

Are you a fan of Grey’s Anatomy?

Would you ever name your pet after a Grey’s Anatomy character?

Would you ever name a pet after a Law & Order character?

Do you like watching crime drama TV shows?

Have you ever worn your purse on your elbow?

Are you a fan of crop tops?

Would you say you’ve been through a “goth” phase?

Do you like giving to others?

Are you really into surprising people?

Is your squad the definition of friendship goals?

Are your legs worth $40 million?

Do you sometimes wish your legs were worth $40 million?

Do you like holding your cat on your arm while taking a casual walk down the street?

Do you sometimes walk sideways or backwards?

Have you ever surprised someone at their wedding?