Free Airline Meals In Coach May Be Coming Back
Free Airline Meals In Coach May Be Coming Back
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Grant Martin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Delta Air Lines is experimenting with an in-flight amenity that vanished in 2010 with Continental Airlines: free meals in economy. According to multiple bloggers and travelers this week the Atlanta-based carrier is experimenting with the provision of hot meals for economy passengers on its transcontinental flights between New York City and the West Coast. A spokesperson for the airline confirmed that the airline was carrying out the tests. The airline's experimentation comes at a time when legacy carriers are racing to provide a better dining experience for passengers on premium flights. Over the course of the last two years, American, Delta and United have all dramatically improved airport lounge catering to include healthier and heartier offerings such as soups and salads, while domestic first class meals have similarly improved in fare . Late in 2015 after years of cost cutting, United brought limited snacks back to the economy section of the aircraft , followed quickly by American and Delta. Now that trend may be expanding even farther. A Delta Airlines airplane takes off from Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, August 15, 2016. / AFP / SAUL LOEB (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) The move may also be partially motivated by competition in the transcontinental market. In recent years, American, Delta, United, JetBlue and Virgin America have all competed to bring the best inflight product to the lucrative flights that cross the country. JetBlue now operates Mint service on multiple transcontinental routes which provides lie-flat seats and high-end meal service. On its A321T aircraft, American Airlines now offers three-class service with lie-flat seats in both business and first class. In potentially offering the meal service that it's currently testing, Delta thus may be looking for an additional incentive for economy passengers to choose the airline over the stiff competition. Regardless of the motivation, now is the perfect time for the airline to test the waters. 2016 brought record profits to the airline industry, which benefited from sustained low oil costs and significant profits from ancillary fees. With extra money in the coffers, it's now easier than ever to give away food in economy to increase customer satisfaction. Whether the meals turn into full blown integrated service, however, is still in question -- according to Delta spokesperson quoted on the blog View From the Wing, the experiment is still being scrutinized by the airline. If nothing pans out though, holiday travelers on Delta Air Lines still may have a free meal to look forward to.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Delta Air Lines is experimenting with an in-flight amenity that vanished in 2010 with Continental Airlines: free meals in economy. According to multiple bloggers and travelers this week the Atlanta-based carrier is experimenting with the provision of hot meals for economy passengers on its transcontinental flights between New York City and the West Coast. A spokesperson for the airline confirmed that the airline was carrying out the tests.

The airline's experimentation comes at a time when legacy carriers are racing to provide a better dining experience for passengers on premium flights. Over the course of the last two years, American, Delta and United have all dramatically improved airport lounge catering to include healthier and heartier offerings such as soups and salads, while domestic first class meals have similarly improved in fare. Late in 2015 after years of cost cutting, United brought limited snacks back to the economy section of the aircraft, followed quickly by American and Delta. Now that trend may be expanding even farther.

The move may also be partially motivated by competition in the transcontinental market. In recent years, American, Delta, United, JetBlue and Virgin America have all competed to bring the best inflight product to the lucrative flights that cross the country. JetBlue now operates Mint service on multiple transcontinental routes which provides lie-flat seats and high-end meal service. On its A321T aircraft, American Airlines now offers three-class service with lie-flat seats in both business and first class.

In potentially offering the meal service that it's currently testing, Delta thus may be looking for an additional incentive for economy passengers to choose the airline over the stiff competition.

Regardless of the motivation, now is the perfect time for the airline to test the waters. 2016 brought record profits to the airline industry, which benefited from sustained low oil costs and significant profits from ancillary fees. With extra money in the coffers, it's now easier than ever to give away food in economy to increase customer satisfaction.

Whether the meals turn into full blown integrated service, however, is still in question -- according to Delta spokesperson quoted on the blog View From the Wing, the experiment is still being scrutinized by the airline. If nothing pans out though, holiday travelers on Delta Air Lines still may have a free meal to look forward to.