Breakthrough Awards Give Scientists Some Celebrity Treatment, But It's Not Enough
Breakthrough Awards Give Scientists Some Celebrity Treatment, But It's Not Enough
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Y. Lee       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Continued from page 2 While the Silicon Valley moguls and the celebrities attracted many of the media photos, one of the award winners, Geneticist Roeland Nusse, did get his photo taken. (Photo by Kimberly White/Getty Images for Breakthrough Prize) wards such as the Nobel Prizes (and the Breakthrough Prizes) are not accurate measures of the state of science in this country. Such prizes recognize work that has been done in the past, just like the Football Hall of Fame celebrates previous performance. Moreover, the vast majority of top scientists around the world never get an opportunity to win these awards since the selection committees may not be aware of them and their work. These trends should concern everyone. Paul Kennedy, a historian at Yale University and author of the book , has indicated that the decline of science will eventually lead to the decline of the U.S. as a world power. Norm Augustine the retired Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin wrote in FORBES that : He continues saying: To avoid or reverse our country's decline in science, our society's views of science have to change. One way to do this is to give real scientists more celebrity treatment through awards shows, television, movies, advertisements and other means. Again, real scientists and not actors playing scientists. Seem a little far-fetched? Think that scientists can't handle the spotlight and do anything besides science? Well, you only have to look in our country's history to find numerous scientists playing more prominent and leadership roles in society. Moreover, after this year's presidential election, anything seems possible.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Continued from page 2

Grace Hopper And Margaret Hamilton Awarded Presidential Medal Of Freedom

These trends are eroding the U.S. global leadership in science, as Katherine Beard in the U.S. News and World Report reports. Think about how much science and scientific policy was discussed during the presidential debates and campaigns. Well, let's see. There was something about the former Miss Universe gaining weight...then climate change being a hoax made up by China...then some debate about the candidates' stamina. That's about it. (By the way, as a previous FORBES piece reports, eight out of nine political leaders in China have significant scientific backgrounds). Awards such as the Nobel Prizes (and the Breakthrough Prizes) are not accurate measures of the state of science in this country. Such prizes recognize work that has been done in the past, just like the Football Hall of Fame celebrates previous performance. Moreover, the vast majority of top scientists around the world never get an opportunity to win these awards since the selection committees may not be aware of them and their work.

These trends should concern everyone. Paul Kennedy, a historian at Yale University and author of the book The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers, has indicated that the decline of science will eventually lead to the decline of the U.S. as a world power. Norm Augustine the retired Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin wrote in FORBES that:

Scientists and engineers are celebrities in most countries. They’re not seen as geeks or misfits, as they too often are in the U.S... In the U.S., almost no engineers or scientists are engaged in high-level politics, and there is a virtual absence of engineers in our public policy debates. Why does this matter? Because if American students have a negative impression - or no impression at all–of science and engineering, then they’re hardly likely to choose them as professions. Already, 70% of engineers with PhD's who graduate from U.S. universities are foreign-born. Increasingly, these talented individuals are not staying in the U.S–instead, they’re returning home, where they find greater opportunities.

He continues saying:

Global leadership is not a birthright. Despite what many Americans believe, our nation does not possess an innate knack for greatness. Greatness must be worked for and won by each new generation. Right now that is not happening. But we still have time. If we place the emphasis we should on education, research and innovation we can lead the world in the decades to come. But the only way to ensure we remain great tomorrow is to increase our investment in science and engineering today.

To avoid or reverse our country's decline in science, our society's views of science have to change. One way to do this is to give real scientists more celebrity treatment through awards shows, television, movies, advertisements and other means. Again, real scientists and not actors playing scientists. Seem a little far-fetched? Think that scientists can't handle the spotlight and do anything besides science? Well, you only have to look in our country's history to find numerous scientists playing more prominent and leadership roles in society. Moreover, after this year's presidential election, anything seems possible.

Follow me on Twitter @bruce_y_lee and visit our Global Obesity Prevention Center (GOPC) at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Read my other Forbes pieces here.