UFC president Dana White confirms Conor McGregor to appear on 'Game of Thrones'
Dana White says Conor McGregor will appear on 'Game of Thrones'
Dana White says Conor McGregor will appear on 'Game of Thrones' Report: Jon Jones gets 1-year ban from Nevada Lewis sluggish but makes it five wins in a row 1 Related Report: Jon Jones gets 1-year ban from Nevada Couture, others talk MMA issues with Congress UFC 206 Cheat Sheet: Holloway-Pettis Looks are deceiving for Doo Ho Choi 1 Related Anthony Pettis fights off doubt as he returns to UFC title picture Pettis's defense could be key against Holloway at UFC 206 UFC 206: Holloway-Pettis headlines card McGregor appeals punishment from Nevada ruckus White faults MMAAA for link to Bellator's Rebney 1 Related UFC, new owners branded 'bullies' by Rebney UFC, new owners branded 'bullies' by Rebney UFC pitches 145-pound title fights to 'Cyborg' 2 Related Shevchenko-Pena tops UFC Fight Night in Denver Jedrzejczyk closes in on top of P4P list Ed Ruth takes Bellator 168 fight on short notice Shevchenko-Pena tops UFC Fight Night in Denver Penn: 'I want to get one more title' 1 Related Divisional rankings: Featherweight Anthony Pettis fights off doubt as he returns to UFC title picture 3 Related McGregor denies relinquishing featherweight belt Injured Cormier pulls out of UFC 206 title bout Five Rounds: Who should McGregor fight next? White bemused over McGregor boxing license Johnson tops Elliott for ninth straight title defense 1 Related Benavidez takes split decision over Cejudo Sung Jung-Bermudez headlines UFC Fight Night McGregor denies relinquishing featherweight belt 2 Related What McGregor's boxing license means for the UFC McGregor issued boxing license in California Malignaggi: I'll knock Conor McGregor's beard off Dantas defeats Warren in Bellator 166 title fight Benson Henderson plans ACL surgery, Chandler rematch Nelson apologizes for postfight actions toward ref Even in a crazy year, Demetrious Johnson remains MMA's constant 2 Related Moreno, Elliott attempting to build on 'The Ultimate Fighter' experience McGregor makes P4P leap, Jedrzejczyk keeps pace UFC adds Lombard-Tavares fight to Denver card What McGregor's boxing license means for the UFC 1 Related McGregor issued boxing license in California No chance Mayweather-McGregor ever happens UFC star Conor McGregor spars with The Mountain from Game of Thrones, Iceland's Hafthór Júlíus Björnsson. (1:06) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment UFC star Conor McGregor will be featured in the upcoming season of HBO's "Game of Thrones," according to UFC president Dana White. "I knew . . . a few months ago that they were interested in putting him in the show," White said in an interview with Fox Sports Live with Jay and Dan. "And I'm glad he did it. It'll be great." McGregor, who most recently knocked out Eddie Alvarez to become the first fighter in mixed martial arts history to hold multiple UFC titles at the same time, has some time on his hands, as his next fight won't come before May . There are no specifics regarding McGregor's role in the seventh season of the show, but one can only hope another McGregor-The Mountain sparring session, as shown above, is in the cards. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

UFC star Conor McGregor will be featured in the upcoming season of HBO's "Game of Thrones," according to UFC president Dana White.

"I knew . . . a few months ago that they were interested in putting him in the show," White said in an interview with Fox Sports Live with Jay and Dan. "And I'm glad he did it. It'll be great."

McGregor, who most recently knocked out Eddie Alvarez to become the first fighter in mixed martial arts history to hold multiple UFC titles at the same time, has some time on his hands, as his next fight won't come before May.

There are no specifics regarding McGregor's role in the seventh season of the show, but one can only hope another McGregor-The Mountain sparring session, as shown above, is in the cards.