Donald Trump Claims He's Sold All of His Stocks Without Offering Proof
Trump Claims He's Sold His Stocks Without Offering Proof
Shares                Donald Trump announced Wednesday that he sold all of his stock holdings a few months ago. But the president-elect has never offered proof that such a sale happened. This declaration comes amid continued questions about his potential conflicts of interest once he assumes office. Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, told ABC News that there’s no way to check if Trump actually sold his stock investments. “There’s no transparency, so how do we know one way or another?” Zandi said. On Dec. 2 Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks told The Associated Press that it was “her understanding that Trump recently sold his Energy Transfer stock but provided no details.” Energy Transfer is one of the companies involved in the construction of the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline. On Tuesday, another Trump spokesman, Jason Miller, told reporters that Trump had sold all of his stocks in June, and Trump himself reiterated that claim. “I was never a big stockholder, but I bought a lot of different stocks and I had a lot of stock before then too, and what I did is I sold them. I don't think it's appropriate for me to be owning stocks when I'm making deals for this country that maybe will affect one company positively and one company negatively,” Trump said on “The Today Show” Wednesday morning.     In August, Trump told Fox Business that he “got out” of the stock market but did not mention any concerns about potential conflicts of interest. “I did invest and I got out and it was actually very good timing,” Trump said on Aug. 2 without specifying when exactly he sold his stocks. The extent of Trump’s prior stock holdings is not completely known and is based on his personal financial disclosure form that reflected his investments as of this past May. The 104-page document shows that Trump had investments in companies like Energy Transfer and Phillips 66, both of which have ties to the Dakota Access Pipeline. The disclosure also showed that Trump had investments in Boeing and United Technologies , the parent company of Carrier, two companies that he has gotten into public tangles with in recent days. John Hudak, a political scientist and senior fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution, said that “it’s really hard for me to believe” that Trump sold all of his stocks months ago and is only broaching the topic now. “There is not much that Trump does that is significant that he does not brag about or make very public, so I would think given all of the concerns about his conflicts of interest and his taxes and his finances, that if he did take that step, that he would have been very public about it,” Hudak told ABC News. Hudak said that one possible explanation for why Trump may not have announced his stock sale sooner is “because if he was then pressed for documentation of it, he would have then revealed at least in part the size of his investment portfolio.” Trump did not release his tax returns during the campaign, making him the first presidential candidate in four decades not to do so. ABC News has asked for further details about Trump’s stock holdings and has not heard back from his transition team. Shares                  Trump Claims He's Sold His Stocks Without Offering Proof   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Trump Pushing Back Announcement About His Businesses   Romney Out of Race to Be Trump's Secretary of State   Electors Call for Intelligence Briefing on Russian Hacking Allegations   Trump Likely to Back Mitt Romney's Niece for RNC Chair   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Picks   Timeline of Russia's Hacking Into US Political Groups Before Election   Trump Picks Goldman Sachs President to Be Economic Adviser   Senate to Probe Reports of Russia Hacking: McConnell   Everything You Need to Know About Trump's Expected Pick for Deputy Secretary of State   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night

Donald Trump announced Wednesday that he sold all of his stock holdings a few months ago. But the president-elect has never offered proof that such a sale happened.

This declaration comes amid continued questions about his potential conflicts of interest once he assumes office.

Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, told ABC News that there’s no way to check if Trump actually sold his stock investments.

“There’s no transparency, so how do we know one way or another?” Zandi said.

On Dec. 2 Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks told The Associated Press that it was “her understanding that Trump recently sold his Energy Transfer stock but provided no details.” Energy Transfer is one of the companies involved in the construction of the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline.

On Tuesday, another Trump spokesman, Jason Miller, told reporters that Trump had sold all of his stocks in June, and Trump himself reiterated that claim.

“I was never a big stockholder, but I bought a lot of different stocks and I had a lot of stock before then too, and what I did is I sold them. I don't think it's appropriate for me to be owning stocks when I'm making deals for this country that maybe will affect one company positively and one company negatively,” Trump said on “The Today Show” Wednesday morning.

In August, Trump told Fox Business that he “got out” of the stock market but did not mention any concerns about potential conflicts of interest.

“I did invest and I got out and it was actually very good timing,” Trump said on Aug. 2 without specifying when exactly he sold his stocks.

The extent of Trump’s prior stock holdings is not completely known and is based on his personal financial disclosure form that reflected his investments as of this past May.

The 104-page document shows that Trump had investments in companies like Energy Transfer and Phillips 66, both of which have ties to the Dakota Access Pipeline. The disclosure also showed that Trump had investments in Boeing and United Technologies, the parent company of Carrier, two companies that he has gotten into public tangles with in recent days.

John Hudak, a political scientist and senior fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution, said that “it’s really hard for me to believe” that Trump sold all of his stocks months ago and is only broaching the topic now.

“There is not much that Trump does that is significant that he does not brag about or make very public, so I would think given all of the concerns about his conflicts of interest and his taxes and his finances, that if he did take that step, that he would have been very public about it,” Hudak told ABC News.

Hudak said that one possible explanation for why Trump may not have announced his stock sale sooner is “because if he was then pressed for documentation of it, he would have then revealed at least in part the size of his investment portfolio.”

Trump did not release his tax returns during the campaign, making him the first presidential candidate in four decades not to do so.

ABC News has asked for further details about Trump’s stock holdings and has not heard back from his transition team.