Feral cats' diet tracked ahead of calicivirus release



Feral cats' diet tracked ahead of calicivirus release

Posted

Researchers will be monitoring the eating habits of feral cats amid fears the felines will embark on a feeding frenzy of native animals when the newest strain of rabbit calicivirus is introduced in Australia.

The K5 strain will be the third biological tool used on pest rabbits when it is released next autumn.

But scientists at the Arid Recovery Reserve, in Roxby Downs in South Australia's north, are interested in how cats and foxes will adapt their diets if there is massive reduction in rabbit numbers.

Postdoctoral researcher with the University of Tasmania, and the National Environmental Science Program's Threatened Species Hub, Dr Hugh McGregor, said the calicivirus posed a risk to native species such as small marsupials or rodents.

"I'm certainly of the belief that calicivirus is overall beneficial to native wildlife," he said.

"It's just that moment where suddenly [feral cats] are all starving which they could cause a lot of damage."

Dr McGregor said there was evidence biological control of rabbits had affected indigenous animals in the past.

"There's a few populations of other native animals which may have gone extinct over that time, just with all the hungry [feral species] — particularly things like a rock wallaby colony that may have gone extinct, because foxes were so suddenly so hungry that they had to go right up into these colonies that they normally wouldn't go."

Feral cats at their hungriest

In anticipation of the calicivirus release, Dr McGregor has been fitting cameras and trackers to feral cats on a special property outside Roxby Downs.

"We've got an area here at Arid Recovery, about 37 square kilometres and it's fenced, and there are rabbits and cats living in there," he said.

"We just record every native animal and every rabbit that's killed over that time."

Dr McGregor said he understood the idea, to trap but then release feral cats in the reserve to hunt native species, would be controversial.

"That's why we're choosing to do it in this pen, where there are some native animals but we know there are no hugely threatened species ... and all the cats are contained."

Dr McGregor said ultimately the researchers wanted to understand an upcoming "window of opportunity" where feral cats were expected to be at their hungriest.

"We anticipate this is going to be an ideal time for poison-baiting and for trapping and shooting, because they'll be so much more effective over that time."

The team at Arid Recovery will review their findings ahead of the calicivirus K5 strain release next year.

Topics: pest-management, rural, pests, environment, research, science-and-technology, roxby-downs-5725, sa