Yoko Ono Tweets 'Still Miss Him' on Anniversary of John Lennon's Murder
Yoko Ono Tweets 'Still Miss Him' on Anniversary of Lennon's Murder 
Shares               Today marks one of the most tragic days in music history. Thirty-six years ago, John Lennon was murdered by Mark David Chapman outside of The Dakota, the New York City apartment building in which Lennon lived with his wife, Yoko Ono .     As she’s done many times before, Ono used the anniversary of her husband’s death to call attention to gun violence in America. On Wednesday night she tweeted the now-familiar image of the bloodied glasses Lennon was wearing when he was killed. “Over 1,200,000 people have been killed by guns in the U.S.A. since John Lennon was shot and killed on Dec. 8, 1980,” reads the message on the image. Along with the image, Yoko tweeted the message, “Together let's bring back America the green land of Peace. The death of a loved one is a hollowing experience. After 36yrs we still miss him.” John Lennon was 40 years old when he was murdered. Chapman, now 69, pleaded guilty to killing Lennon and is serving life in prison for the crime. Shares                  Yoko Ono Tweets 'Still Miss Him' on Anniversary of Lennon's Murder   Jonathan Lipnicki and 'Jerry Maguire' 20 Years Later   Mark Wahlberg Is Optimistic About Future Under Trump   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now   Viola Davis Gives Moving Speech at Critics' Choice Awards   Golden Globes 2017: Snubs and Surprises   'The Fate of the Furious' Full-Length Trailer Released   'Moana' Stays Afloat, Leads Box Office for 3rd Straight Week   Golden Globes 2017: Stars React to Nominations   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Collateral Beauty' Helped Will Smith Cope With Father's Illness   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night

Today marks one of the most tragic days in music history.

Thirty-six years ago, John Lennon was murdered by Mark David Chapman outside of The Dakota, the New York City apartment building in which Lennon lived with his wife, Yoko Ono.

As she’s done many times before, Ono used the anniversary of her husband’s death to call attention to gun violence in America. On Wednesday night she tweeted the now-familiar image of the bloodied glasses Lennon was wearing when he was killed.

“Over 1,200,000 people have been killed by guns in the U.S.A. since John Lennon was shot and killed on Dec. 8, 1980,” reads the message on the image.

Along with the image, Yoko tweeted the message, “Together let's bring back America the green land of Peace. The death of a loved one is a hollowing experience. After 36yrs we still miss him.”

John Lennon was 40 years old when he was murdered. Chapman, now 69, pleaded guilty to killing Lennon and is serving life in prison for the crime.