Mick Jagger becomes a father for the eighth time at 73

Mick Jagger , frontman of the Rolling Stones, has become a father for the eighth time, his publicist has confirmed. The musician, 73, and his girlfriend, 29-year-old American ballerina Melanie Hamrick, welcomed their first son in New York on Thursday. “They are both delighted,” a statement said. “Mick was at the hospital for the arrival. Mother and baby are doing well and we request that the media respect their privacy at this time.” Jagger, who is now a great-grandfather, has children with five different women. His oldest is 45-year-old Karis Hunt, whose mother is the singer Marsha Hunt. Jade Jagger, 44, is his daughter with Bianca Jagger, to whom he was married for eight years, and he has four children with Jerry Hall – Elizabeth, 32, James, 30, Georgia, 24, and Gabriel, 19. He also has a son Lucas, 17, with Brazilian model Luciana Gimenez. The Rolling Stones are currently promoting the release of their 25th studio album, Blue and Lonesome. Described as “five decades in the making and just three days to record”, the album is a collection of blues covers that takes the band back to their roots in the genre . Earlier this year, Hamrick, who has performed with the American Ballet Theatre in New York, is said to have been a guest on the US leg of the Stones’ recent tour in February and March, which ended with their historic open-air concert in Cuba. Topics  Mick Jagger   Pop and rock   Parents and parenting   Family   The Rolling Stones

The Rolling Stones singer and ballerina girlfriend Melanie Hamrick, 29, delighted by birth of their son in New York

Mick Jagger, frontman of the Rolling Stones, has become a father for the eighth time, his publicist has confirmed.

The musician, 73, and his girlfriend, 29-year-old American ballerina Melanie Hamrick, welcomed their first son in New York on Thursday.

“They are both delighted,” a statement said. “Mick was at the hospital for the arrival. Mother and baby are doing well and we request that the media respect their privacy at this time.”

The Rolling Stones: 'We are theatre and reality at the same time' Read more

Jagger, who is now a great-grandfather, has children with five different women. His oldest is 45-year-old Karis Hunt, whose mother is the singer Marsha Hunt. Jade Jagger, 44, is his daughter with Bianca Jagger, to whom he was married for eight years, and he has four children with Jerry Hall – Elizabeth, 32, James, 30, Georgia, 24, and Gabriel, 19. He also has a son Lucas, 17, with Brazilian model Luciana Gimenez.

The Rolling Stones are currently promoting the release of their 25th studio album, Blue and Lonesome. Described as “five decades in the making and just three days to record”, the album is a collection of blues covers that takes the band back to their roots in the genre.

Earlier this year, Hamrick, who has performed with the American Ballet Theatre in New York, is said to have been a guest on the US leg of the Stones’ recent tour in February and March, which ended with their historic open-air concert in Cuba.