14 Things That’ll Happen In 2017 According To “The Simpsons”
14 Things That'll Happen In 2017 According To "The Simpsons"
As we all know, is a sinister oracle with the power to predict the future . Yep, they predicted President Trump way back in the year 2000. So what treats might be in store for us in 2017? Let’s see… Some alt-right guy will invent the make-up gun . Homer invented it in the episode “ Wizard of Evergreen Terrace .” There will be a referendum on whether or not to deport illegal immigrants. From the episode “ Much Apu About Nothing ”. Greedy, corrupt energy firms will cause an environmental catastrophe, and a dome will be built over the contaminated site. The dome appeared in . The chandelier in Elton John’s private jet will malfunction. From the episode “ I’m with Cupid ”. It will be made illegal to teach evolution in schools. From the episode “ The Monkey Suit ”. Facebook’s algorithm will flag fake news but also sarcasm to make sure no one is confused by what they read online. From the episode “ The Saved Lisa’s Brain ”. Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt will get fat after comfort eating their way through a messy divorce. In the episode “ Homer the Whopper ” , it’s revealed that the celeb trainer Lyle McCarthy has worked with Pitt and Jolie. Empowered by seeing so many metaphorical clowns elected to positions of power in 2016, several actual clowns will stand in elections around the world. And win. From the episode “ Mister Spritz goes to Washington ”.  Benedict Cumberbatch will be cast as David Cameron in the dramatisation of Brexit. In the episode “ Love is a Many-Splintered Thing ”, Cumberbatch played the British Prime Minister. Prohibition will return to several states in the US. It will fail, just like it did in the episode “ Homer vs. The Eighteenth Amendment .”  Stephen Hawking will learn to fly. From the episode “ They Saved Lisa’s Brain ”. To cut costs, industry workers will be replaced by robots. From the episode, “ Them, Robot ”. It will be revealed that an election was won because of voter fraud, with dead people and pets mysteriously casting votes. In the episode “ Sideshow Bob Roberts ”, Sideshow Bob becomes mayor after rigging the election. White men will gloat. Though tbf that’s already happening. From the episode “ Lisa vs. Malibu Stacy ”. OK, the future’s scary but remember this: One day there be a female president. said it will happen, so it must be true.   People Are Freaking Out Because Bra Inserts Are Being...    This "Westworld" Fan Theory Is Either Fucking Insane...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.