Knife-Wielding High School Student Shot by Campus Police Officer

Knife-Wielding High School Student Shot by Campus Police Officer // // // A frightening scene unfolded Wednesday at a Reno, Nevada, high school. A student was captured on video waving knives and threatening fellow students before being shot by a campus police officer. Fox News chief correspondent joined Thursday on to provide more details of the incident. Police responded to a call around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday at Hug High School following an apparent altercation between two students. Soon after, a 14-year-old male student armed himself with a knife. Additional photos and videos show the student appears to be carrying knives in each hand. Part 1 of incident at Hug High School where the knife-wielding teen was shot pic.twitter.com/V62LAeHyhh — EVANYUSON (@evanyuson) December 7, 2016 Witnesses said the officer ordered the student to drop the weapons and shot the student in the shoulder after he refused. The school was temporarily placed on lockdown. The student was taken to the hospital and is expected to survive after being listed in critical condition as of Wednesday evening, according to local ABC affiliate KTNV . The campus police officer has been placed on administrative leave. Watch the above clip for more details.

(WARNING: Graphic content)

WATCH: Admiral Calls Out Kaepernick During Pearl Harbor Speech

Study: 'Bathroom Bill' Could Cost Texas Economy $8.5B a Year, 185K Jobs

Mike Rowe Responds to College Student Who Advocated Removing US Flag

A frightening scene unfolded Wednesday at a Reno, Nevada, high school.

A student was captured on video waving knives and threatening fellow students before being shot by a campus police officer.

Fox News chief correspondent Jonathan Hunt joined Bill Hemmer Thursday on America's Newsroom to provide more details of the incident.

Police responded to a call around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday at Hug High School following an apparent altercation between two students. Soon after, a 14-year-old male student armed himself with a knife.

Additional photos and videos show the student appears to be carrying knives in each hand.

Part 1 of incident at Hug High School where the knife-wielding teen was shot pic.twitter.com/V62LAeHyhh — EVANYUSON (@evanyuson) December 7, 2016

Witnesses said the officer ordered the student to drop the weapons and shot the student in the shoulder after he refused.

The school was temporarily placed on lockdown. The student was taken to the hospital and is expected to survive after being listed in critical condition as of Wednesday evening, according to local ABC affiliate KTNV.

The campus police officer has been placed on administrative leave.

Watch the above clip for more details.

Sheriff Clarke: US Must Enforce Its Borders Under Trump

SHOCKING: 2 American Flags Burned Outside California Gyms

Tomi Lahren: Mainstream Media Largely 'Caters to the Coasts'