Gregg Popovich Received 25 Write-In Votes for President in San Antonio
Gregg Popovich Received 25 Write-In Votes for President in San Antonio
According to the ' Kelsey Bradshaw Don Nelson . Days later, he offered a more candid response to the results. During a passionate speech transcribed by of the , he said he's "sick to my stomach" and concluded that "we are Rome." Asked if his feelings remained the same over a week later, per 's Nancy Armour "It's still a disorienting situation when you thought you lived in a certain kind of country with certain values that were held in esteem and find out those values aren't very important to half the country." With that considered, he probably won't appreciate that some Spurs fans took the matter lightly. [ ]

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Gregg Popovich has an exceptional track record leading the San Antonio Spurs. So much so, in fact, that some San Antonians want him to run the country.

According to the San Antonio Express-News' Kelsey Bradshaw, 25 voters from Bexar County wrote the head coach's name on their ballots for the presidential election. Some tabbed Tim Duncan as his running mate. Others wasted their suffrage by voting for Jesus, Kanye West and Mickey Mouse.

Before Election Day, Popovich joked about casting his vote for former coaching legend Don Nelson. Days later, he offered a more candid response to the results.

During a passionate speech transcribed by Melissa Rohlin of the Express-News, he said he's "sick to my stomach" and concluded that "we are Rome."

Asked if his feelings remained the same over a week later, per USA Today's Nancy Armour, Popovich again voiced his displeasure:

"It's still a disorienting situation when you thought you lived in a certain kind of country with certain values that were held in esteem and find out those values aren't very important to half the country."

With that considered, he probably won't appreciate that some Spurs fans took the matter lightly.

[San Antonio Express-News]