Dexter Fowler reaches agreement with St. Louis Cardinals
Rival Cardinals land former Cubs CF Fowler
Rival Cardinals land former Cubs CF Fowler Aroldis Chapman's remarkable year rocked baseball Rockies' Bettis diagnosed with testicular cancer New MLB hazing rules ban dressing as women Source: 3B Turner close to deal with Dodgers Source: Jansen, Dodgers agree to $80M deal Nats ship Espinosa to Angels for 2 minor leaguers Still a Pirate, McCutchen 'bothered' by trade talk A fit Panda will help, but pitching must carry Red Sox in '17 Bautista back with Blue Jays? Moves teams need to make Time for Orioles to trade baseball's best closer Sorry, Mets fans, Nationals are considerably better Let's make a deal for Jose Quintana 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Plenty of holiday shopping left to do after winter meetings 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Are these large reliever contracts worth it? It's complicated Now that everyone is smart, GMs must go bold to succeed 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Signing Fowler was the move St. Louis needed to make 2 Related Getting deep with Dexter: Advanced stats help Fowler save runs 2016 MLB winter meetings For every Cardinals need, Dexter Fowler is an answer Dexter Fowler and Adam Eaton bring similar, notable value Red, White and blue? Sox rock, while others blunder in D.C. 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Who will land where in crowded first-base/DH market? Adding Moreland makes Hanley Ramirez Red Sox's primary DH Inside Bryce Harper's 'Wow...' heard 'round the world 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Nationals reveal new alternate uniforms Winter Meetings Daily: Cubs in pursuit of Koji Uehara? White Sox nailing the art of the sale Red Sox's Sandoval ready for career restart Reasons to question Chapman deal? 86 million -- and one 1 Related 2016 MLB winter meetings Yankees will regret Aroldis Chapman's contract After Wade Davis deal, Cubs' offseason plan comes into focus As David Price vents on Twitter, Chris Sale shuts out the noise Wade Davis worth price tag of Jorge Soler for Cubs Dexter Fowler explains his decision to sign with the Cardinals and how the city of St. Louis played a role. (0:36) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Dexter Fowler is switching teams in the National League Central. A little more than month after helping the Chicago Cubs win their first World Series title in 108 years, the free-agent center fielder has joined the rival St. Louis Cardinals . The deal is for five years and worth $82.5 million with a full no-trade clause, as first reported by Fox Sports and confirmed by ESPN's Jerry Crasnick. The Cardinals introduced Fowler at a Friday morning news conference. St. Louis' primary goal entering the offseason was to become more athletic and better defensively. On Thursday, the Cardinals left the winter meetings near Washington, D.C., intent on finding a center fielder after trade talks proved fruitless because of the team's lack of high-end prospects. It's believed the Cardinals had discussions with the Chicago White Sox about Adam Eaton before he was shipped to the Washington Nationals for a trio of highly regarded pitching prospects. Fowler's arrival likely means Randal Grichuk will move to left field and leadoff hitter Matt Carpenter will become the Cardinals' No. 3 hitter. It came as no surprise that Fowler turned down his mutual option with Chicago; he was seen as grossly underpaid for his performance in the team's World Series triumph. Fowler made $13 million in 2016, returning to the Cubs for one year only after exploring the free-agent market last winter and finding it unsatisfactory. After producing an on-base percentage of .393 in 2016 and hitting 13 home runs -- in addition to a blast in Game 7 of the World Series -- Fowler was due a big payday. He also was credited with playing better defense in 2016, after he and the team agreed he should play deeper. The result was a plus-1 in defensive runs saved, according to FanGraphs. In 2015, Fowler was minus-12. Fowler's biggest contributions came at the top of the order, where Cubs manager Joe Maddon used to say to him, "You go, we go." Fowler's first-inning on-base percentage in 2016 was .479. He was the ignition to the Cubs' offense throughout his two years with the team. The Fowler move comes after the Cubs signed Jason Heyward and John Lackey away from the Cardinals last offseason. Fowler is the first free agent to sign with the Cardinals after finishing the previous season with the Cubs since Mark Grudzielanek did so in the 2004-05 offseason. The Cardinals and Cubs open the 2017 season on April 2 in St. Louis (8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN). Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Dexter Fowler explains his decision to sign with the Cardinals and how the city of St. Louis played a role. (0:36)

Dexter Fowler is switching teams in the National League Central.

A little more than month after helping the Chicago Cubs win their first World Series title in 108 years, the free-agent center fielder has joined the rival St. Louis Cardinals.

Editor's Picks For every Cardinals need, Dexter Fowler is an answer The Cardinals needed an impact player on the bases, in the field and at bat to narrow the gap with the Cubs. Who they gonna call? Dexter Fowler.

Dexter Fowler and Adam Eaton bring similar, notable value Contracts notwithstanding, the most recent top-of-the-order acquisitions share a couple of common traits that are important to their new teams. 1 Related

The deal is for five years and worth $82.5 million with a full no-trade clause, as first reported by Fox Sports and confirmed by ESPN's Jerry Crasnick.

The Cardinals introduced Fowler at a Friday morning news conference.

St. Louis' primary goal entering the offseason was to become more athletic and better defensively. On Thursday, the Cardinals left the winter meetings near Washington, D.C., intent on finding a center fielder after trade talks proved fruitless because of the team's lack of high-end prospects.

It's believed the Cardinals had discussions with the Chicago White Sox about Adam Eaton before he was shipped to the Washington Nationals for a trio of highly regarded pitching prospects.

Fowler's arrival likely means Randal Grichuk will move to left field and leadoff hitter Matt Carpenter will become the Cardinals' No. 3 hitter.

In 2016, Dexter Fowler had an on-base percentage of .393 and hit 13 home runs for the World Series champion Cubs. Tommy Gilligan/USA TODAY Sports

It came as no surprise that Fowler turned down his mutual option with Chicago; he was seen as grossly underpaid for his performance in the team's World Series triumph. Fowler made $13 million in 2016, returning to the Cubs for one year only after exploring the free-agent market last winter and finding it unsatisfactory. After producing an on-base percentage of .393 in 2016 and hitting 13 home runs -- in addition to a blast in Game 7 of the World Series -- Fowler was due a big payday.

He also was credited with playing better defense in 2016, after he and the team agreed he should play deeper. The result was a plus-1 in defensive runs saved, according to FanGraphs. In 2015, Fowler was minus-12.

Fowler's biggest contributions came at the top of the order, where Cubs manager Joe Maddon used to say to him, "You go, we go." Fowler's first-inning on-base percentage in 2016 was .479. He was the ignition to the Cubs' offense throughout his two years with the team.

The Fowler move comes after the Cubs signed Jason Heyward and John Lackey away from the Cardinals last offseason.

Fowler is the first free agent to sign with the Cardinals after finishing the previous season with the Cubs since Mark Grudzielanek did so in the 2004-05 offseason.

The Cardinals and Cubs open the 2017 season on April 2 in St. Louis (8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN).

ESPN's Jesse Rogers contributed to this report.