Secrets of Disney World performers revealed in longtime Goofy's AMA
Secrets of Disney World performers revealed in longtime Goofy's AMA
If you've ever met a human who works as a Walt Disney World character performer, you probably know that their trade secrets are, well, pretty secret — they're not allowed to disclose their occupation while on park grounds, on social media or in a public forum. Now, thanks to 's Reddit AMA , we have a pretty in-depth look into the world of being a performer at Disney World. The Redditor claims to have played Goofy (among other characters) at Walt Disney World for over 20 years – which he backed up with a ton of photos. He answered questions about his pay rate, how hot the costumes were, furries and more. SEE ALSO: Disney's 'Avatar' theme park robots are as amazing as the film characters And as Ihaveanotheridentity warned readers: "This post is not for those who wish to preserve the Disney Magic." Image: imgur His childhood dream was to work at Disney. Image: reddit The costumes are about as sweltering as you'd imagine. Image: REDDIT It's exactly as weird as you think it is to see multiples of the same character. Image: reddit Image: reddit There are cliques amongst the character performers. Image: REDDIT He wasn't shy when more candid Redditors asked questions about PG-13 activities. Image: REDDIT Image: REDDIT Image: REDDIT Image: REDDIT Disney's employees do get paid with more than pixie dust – but not by much. Image: REDDIT His most upvoted comment is a touching story about two young sisters who visited the park. They returned to Disney after witnessing their mother violently die in a car crash, and he gave them a special VIP tour. The story is pretty long but definitely worth it – click here to read it. And even though the OP had over 20 years of fun at WDW, it ultimately ended on poor terms when he was fired. Image: REDDIT Image: REDDIT He's working on finding a career he's as passionate about as playing Goofy. Image: REDDIT We have a feeling Ihaveanotheridentity will find a way to keep the Disney magic alive, wherever he winds up next. BONUS: 'Finding Dory' recut as a thriller is the stuff of nightmares

If you've ever met a human who works as a Walt Disney World character performer, you probably know that their trade secrets are, well, pretty secret — they're not allowed to disclose their occupation while on park grounds, on social media or in a public forum.

Now, thanks to Ihaveanotheridentity 's Reddit AMA, we have a pretty in-depth look into the world of being a performer at Disney World.

The Redditor claims to have played Goofy (among other characters) at Walt Disney World for over 20 years – which he backed up with a ton of photos. He answered questions about his pay rate, how hot the costumes were, furries and more.

And as Ihaveanotheridentity warned readers: "This post is not for those who wish to preserve the Disney Magic."

His childhood dream was to work at Disney.

The costumes are about as sweltering as you'd imagine.

It's exactly as weird as you think it is to see multiples of the same character.

There are cliques amongst the character performers.

He wasn't shy when more candid Redditors asked questions about PG-13 activities.

Disney's employees do get paid with more than pixie dust – but not by much.

His most upvoted comment is a touching story about two young sisters who visited the park.

They returned to Disney after witnessing their mother violently die in a car crash, and he gave them a special VIP tour. The story is pretty long but definitely worth it – click here to read it.

And even though the OP had over 20 years of fun at WDW, it ultimately ended on poor terms when he was fired.

He's working on finding a career he's as passionate about as playing Goofy.

We have a feeling Ihaveanotheridentity will find a way to keep the Disney magic alive, wherever he winds up next.