Actor Judge Reinhold Arrested After Airport Incident With TSA
Actor Judge Reinhold Arrested After Airport Incident With TSA
Apparently, Judge Reinhold was ready to kick 100 percent of the TSA’s ass on Thursday — and he ended up getting arrested for it. “Fast Times at Ridgemont High” star Reinhold was arrested at Dallas Love Field airport in Texas on Thursday, after allegedly confronting Transportation Security Administration employees, the Dallas Police Department said. According to a release from the Department, officers were alerted by the TSA that an individual was “causing a disturbance” and refusing to submit to a screening at a checkpoint area.  'Young and the Restless' Alum Corey Sligh Arrested for Child Molestation  “The officers responded and subsequently took the individual into custody after he refused to comply,” police said. Reinhold was charged with disorderly conduct, according to police. According to the Dallas News , Reinhold became “belligerent” after being selected for a pat-down Thursday afternoon. The “Beverly Hills Cop” actor, who is 59, was informed that the pat-down could be done in a private room, but he refused the offer, the Dallas News reported.  Food Network Star Michael Chiarello Arrested on DUI, Drug Charges (Report) Police were then called to the scene and attempted to calm the actor, but according to authorities Reinhold was “antagonistic” toward the officers. Reinhold’s attorney in the matter, Steve Stodghill, told the Dallas News that Reinhold successfully passed through the TSA scanner, but was stopped when his luggage set off an alarm. The actor didn’t understand why he should be searched after the successful scan, the attorney said. 'Young and the Restless' Alum Corey Sligh Arrested for Child Molestation Food Network Star Michael Chiarello Arrested on DUI, Drug Charges (Report) Rapper Coolio Arrested After Airport Security Finds Loaded Gun

Apparently, Judge Reinhold was ready to kick 100 percent of the TSA’s ass on Thursday — and he ended up getting arrested for it.

“Fast Times at Ridgemont High” star Reinhold was arrested at Dallas Love Field airport in Texas on Thursday, after allegedly confronting Transportation Security Administration employees, the Dallas Police Department said.

According to a release from the Department, officers were alerted by the TSA that an individual was “causing a disturbance” and refusing to submit to a screening at a checkpoint area.

Also Read: 'Young and the Restless' Alum Corey Sligh Arrested for Child Molestation

“The officers responded and subsequently took the individual into custody after he refused to comply,” police said.

Reinhold was charged with disorderly conduct, according to police.

According to the Dallas News, Reinhold became “belligerent” after being selected for a pat-down Thursday afternoon.

The “Beverly Hills Cop” actor, who is 59, was informed that the pat-down could be done in a private room, but he refused the offer, the Dallas News reported.

Also Read: Food Network Star Michael Chiarello Arrested on DUI, Drug Charges (Report)

Police were then called to the scene and attempted to calm the actor, but according to authorities Reinhold was “antagonistic” toward the officers.

Reinhold’s attorney in the matter, Steve Stodghill, told the Dallas News that Reinhold successfully passed through the TSA scanner, but was stopped when his luggage set off an alarm. The actor didn’t understand why he should be searched after the successful scan, the attorney said.

Watch current and classic Saturday Night Live sketches on Yahoo View, now on iOS and Android.

Related stories from TheWrap:

'Young and the Restless' Alum Corey Sligh Arrested for Child Molestation

Food Network Star Michael Chiarello Arrested on DUI, Drug Charges (Report)

Rapper Coolio Arrested After Airport Security Finds Loaded Gun