Marine Le Pen says migrants should not have access to free education or healthcare
Le Pen says illegal migrant children should be banned from healthcare


French far-right leader Marine Le Pen said today the children of illegal immigrants should be refused school places and free healthcare.

The leader of the Front National (FN) party told a conference in Paris: 'I've got nothing against foreigners but I say to them: if you come to our country, don't expect that you will be taken care of, treated (by the health system) and that your children will be educated for free.'

'That's finished now, it's the end of playtime,' she added.

Scroll down for video

Marine Le Pen (pictured, right) is widely tipped to make it into the second round of the French presidential elections in the spring

Polls currently show her qualifying for the second round of May's election where she is forecast to face - and be defeated by - the conservative candidate Francois Fillon, but she is hoping for renewed momentum after the victory of Donald Trump in the United States.

After her speech she clarified her views, saying she only wanted to block education for immigrants who are in the country illegally, not all foreigners.

But she said any foreigner using the public education system without paying tax in France should have to contribute.

Marine le Pen patted a horse on a visit to the annual Horse Fair in Villepinte, outside Paris, last week. She is proving popular among many voters in rural France

'We're going to reserve our efforts and our national solidarity for the most humble, the most modest and the most poor among us,' Le Pen told the conference.

Le Pen falsely claimed today that anyone aged over 65 could arrive in France and start claiming old-age social security payments.

The BBC reported that France's Education Secretary Najat Belkacem - a Socialist, who was born in Morocco - wrote on her blog that Ms Le Pen had not demonstrated a 'total indifference to the terrible plight of many migrant children' and was ignorant of French values and laws.

The FN sees itself as part of a global revolt against immigration, established political parties and globalisation epitomised by Trump's victory last month.

It regularly criticises the use of France's chronically over-budget social security system for foreigners, arguing French-born people should be prioritised.

Few analysts see her as likely to take power, but the last 12 months has been an unpredictable year in politics and France's sickly economy and immigration are top issues for voters.

Le Pen wants to withdraw from the eurozone and has even called for a referendum on membership of the European Union in France, one of the community's founding members.

Fillon has also taken a tough line on immigration recently, promising to reduce it to a 'strict minimum' and calling on newcomers to adapt to French culture.