Lloyd Releases His New EP 'Tru'
Lloyd Releases His New EP 'Tru'
Lloyd's comeback EP is now available. The singer has been largely absent from music for the last several years, and hasn't released an album since in 2011. The 5-track EP includes features from 2 Chainz , Lil Wayne , and Rick Ross . The singer spoke to Complex recently about working on the new EP, saying he wanted to strip down his music to its most essential elements. "The path [of the EP] is to eliminate tricks and gimmicks. Let’s take Photoshop out of the equation, let’s take all the filters out of the equation. Fuck it, let’s take the clothes out of the equation. When we record, let’s take the Auto-Tune out; let’s create songs based around a story first. Let’s strip everything down to its simplest form possible in order to capture the best work possible," he said. Lloyd also discussed being naked on the cover, and how it was inspired by his deep-woods songwriting process. "I got this military jeep that I take off-road a lot. And that’s probably the only way I would have found it is with the jeep. Oftentimes when I was making the music I'd travel out to different locations that would've been hard to discover with any other vehicle… You take a dirt road, no cell phone service. I would go to those places and just write my music," he said, noting that the remote locations really helped his creative process. After several years without any new music, you can finally purchase Lloyd's new EP on iTunes now .

Lloyd's comeback EP Tru is now available. The singer has been largely absent from music for the last several years, and hasn't released an album since King of Hearts in 2011. The 5-track EP includes features from 2 Chainz, Lil Wayne, and Rick Ross.

The singer spoke to Complex recently about working on the new EP, saying he wanted to strip down his music to its most essential elements. "The path [of the EP] is to eliminate tricks and gimmicks. Let’s take Photoshop out of the equation, let’s take all the filters out of the equation. Fuck it, let’s take the clothes out of the equation. When we record, let’s take the Auto-Tune out; let’s create songs based around a story first. Let’s strip everything down to its simplest form possible in order to capture the best work possible," he said.

Lloyd also discussed being naked on the cover, and how it was inspired by his deep-woods songwriting process. "I got this military jeep that I take off-road a lot. And that’s probably the only way I would have found it is with the jeep. Oftentimes when I was making the music I'd travel out to different locations that would've been hard to discover with any other vehicle… You take a dirt road, no cell phone service. I would go to those places and just write my music," he said, noting that the remote locations really helped his creative process.

After several years without any new music, you can finally purchase Lloyd's new EP Tru on iTunes now.