Post Malone's Debut Album 'Stoney' Is Here
Post Malone's Debut Album 'Stoney' Is Here
Although we're well past the original release date Aug. 26, Post Malone finally unleashed his debut album Thursday night. The album features Justin Bieber, Quavo, 2 Chainz, and Kehlani, and includes his previously released singles "Go Flex," "White Iverson," "Congratulations,"  "Leave," and more. Post previously hinted at the album release date with the title of his mixtape , but later explained on Twitter that it had been delayed. He discussed the album name with Zane Lowe, saying "Stoney Maloney, that's my old nickname, so it's like cash. We're just rocking, we're figuring out the whole flow of everything and putting the tracks together in a cohesive manner." "I think we're making a sound that's super fresh, hip, original, very fly," he told Bootleg Kev about the album back in September . "You can hip-hop to it, you can crunk to it, you can really just get down to it. It's all just super lit." Although he's has continued to release music, nothing has quite recreated the buzz of "White Iverson" in 2015. We'll have to see if this project has the ability to recapture the success he saw with that track last year. Post will be hitting Europe to promote ​ with a new tour. You can check out the dates below. here are the new dates for my 2017 euro tour - I will see you in February and can't wait to perform the Stoney album for y'all 😈 (artwork by @100br @trvsbrthrs @henocksileshi @bobbygreenleaf 📸 by @nabildo ) London is still on schedule for December 12th 2016. A photo posted by Posty (@postmalone) on Nov 17, 2016 at 5:17am PST You can purchase Post Malone's on iTunes here .

Although we're well past the original release date Aug. 26, Post Malone finally unleashed his debut album Stoney Thursday night. The album features Justin Bieber, Quavo, 2 Chainz, and Kehlani, and includes his previously released singles "Go Flex," "White Iverson," "Congratulations," "Leave," and more.

Post previously hinted at the album release date with the title of his mixtape August 26th, but later explained on Twitter that it had been delayed. He discussed the album name with Zane Lowe, saying "Stoney Maloney, that's my old nickname, so it's like cash. We're just rocking, we're figuring out the whole flow of everything and putting the tracks together in a cohesive manner."

"I think we're making a sound that's super fresh, hip, original, very fly," he told Bootleg Kev about the album back in September. "You can hip-hop to it, you can crunk to it, you can really just get down to it. It's all just super lit."

Although he's has continued to release music, nothing has quite recreated the buzz of "White Iverson" in 2015. We'll have to see if this project has the ability to recapture the success he saw with that track last year.

Post will be hitting Europe to promote Stoney​ with a new tour. You can check out the dates below.

You can purchase Post Malone's Stoney on iTunes here.