Cancerous tumor found in the mouth of ferocious giant 'Gorgon' 255 m years ago
The world's oldest cancer case found in ferocious giant 'Gorgon'


A ferocious giant beast that roamed Earth 255 million years ago would have had terrible toothache - thank to a cancerous tumour in its jaws, according to new research.

The prehistoric creature was suffering from a dental tumour - making it the world's oldest cancer case.

When paleontologists cut into the gorgonopsid's fossilised jaw they got more than they bargained for - a benign growth made up of miniature, tooth like structures.

Scroll down for video

When paleontologists cut into the gorgonopsid's fossilised jaw they got more than they bargained for - a benign growth made up of miniature, tooth like structures.

WHAT IS AN ODONTOMA? In humans and other mammals, a compound odontoma is a mass of small "toothlets" combined with tooth tissues like dentin and enamel. This type of tumor grows in the gums or other soft tissues of the jaw. It can cause pain and swelling and disrupt the positions of teeth. Doctors consider odontomas benign tumors because they do not metastasize and spread throughout the body. But given the disruptions they cause, surgeons often opt to remove them.

Known as a compound odontoma, it is common to mammals today.

Professor Christian Sidor, of the University of Washington, said: 'We think this is by far the oldest known instance of a compound odontoma.

'It would indicate this is an ancient type of tumour.'

Gorgonopsids were the largest predators of the late Paleozoic, the era just before dinosaurs.

Featured in the BBC's Walking With Monsters they became extinct 250 million years ago.

Also known as 'gorgons', they grew as large as 10 feet long and were among the most ferocious predators ever.

Their heads appeared somewhat dog like, with razor sharp teeth up to four inches long.

Their eyes were set at the sides like those of a lizard, and the body was probably covered with scales rather than hair.

The 'gorgons' would have resembled a cross between a lion and a huge monitor lizard - leading to the name science has given them.

'Gorgons' are mythical monsters with such a horrible appearance that gazing upon them turns an observer to stone.

THE GIANT 'GORGONS' Gorgonopsids were the largest predators of the late Paleozoic, the era just before dinosaurs. Featured in the BBC's Walking With Monsters they became extinct 250 million years ago. Also known as 'gorgons', they grew as large as 10 feet long and were among the most ferocious predators ever. Gorgonopsids were the largest predators of the late Paleozoic, the era just before dinosaurs, and featured in the BBC's Walking With Monsters. Their heads appeared somewhat dog like, with razor sharp teeth up to four inches long. Their eyes were set at the sides like those of a lizard, and the body was probably covered with scales rather than hair. The 'gorgons' would have resembled a cross between a lion and a huge monitor lizard - leading to the name science has given them.

Before the discovery published in the Journal of the American Medical Association Oncology, the earliest known evidence of odontomas came from the Ice Age in fossilised mammoths and deer.

Dr Judy Skog, programme director in the US National Science Foundation's Division of Earth Sciences which funded the research, said: 'Until now, the earliest known occurrence of this tumour was about one million years ago, in fossil mammals.

'These researchers have found an example in the ancestors of mammals that lived 255 million years ago.

'The discovery suggests that the suspected cause of an odontoma isn't tied solely to traits in modern species, as had been thought.'

Family Tree Showing the Relationship of Gorgonopsians (in blue) and Mammals to Other SynapsidsThe mammalian and reptilian lines diverged approximately 320 million years ago, with the group that included extant mammals appearing approximately 165 million years ago.

In humans and other mammals, a compound odontoma is a mass of small 'toothlets' amalgamated together along with tooth tissues like dentin and enamel.

They grow within the gums or other soft tissues of the jaw and can cause pain and swelling, as well as disrupt the position of teeth and other tissues.

Since odontomas do not spread they are considered benign.

But given the disruptions they cause, surgeons often opt to remove them.

Graduate student Megan Whitney made the discovery by chance while examining the specimen Prof Sidor had dug up in southern Tanzania to study its mammal like features.

In humans and other mammals, a compound odontoma is a mass of small 'toothlets' amalgamated together along with tooth tissues like dentin and enamel.

She said: 'Most reptiles alive today fuse their teeth directly to the jawbone. But mammals do not.

'We use tough, but flexible, string like tissues to hold teeth in their sockets. And I wanted to know if the same was true for gorgonopsians.'

Fellow undergraduate Larry Mose sliced into the fossilised jaw looking at thin sections under a microscope to see how the tooth was nestled within its socket.

Each only about as thick as a sheet of notebook paper he and Ms Whitney immediately noticed something unexpected when they were mounted onto slides.

Embedded next to the root of the canine were irregular clusters of up to eight tiny, round objects.

At higher magnification Ms Whitney discovered they resembled small, poorly differentiated teeth, or toothlets.

The toothlets even harboured distinct layers of dentin and enamel.

She said: 'At first we didn't know what to make of it. But after some investigation we realised this gorgonopsian had what looks like a textbook compound odontoma.'

'This discovery demonstrates how the fossil record can tell us a lot about our present day lives, even the diseases or pathologies that are part of our mammalian heritage.