New cats Evie and Ossie join Westminster moggies as Cabinet Office mousers
New cats Evie and Ossie join Westminster moggies as Cabinet Office mousers
here are now five cats on Downing Street. The Cabinet Office confirmed to The Telegraph that they have adopted a black-and-white cat called Evie and another called Ossie to deal with the mouse problem in the Government offices. A spokesperson said: "The cats are named Evie after Dame Evelyn Sharp, the first female permanent secretary, and Ossie after Sir Edward Osmotherly, author of the Osmotherly Rules, the guide that civil servants have when giving evidence to parliamentary select committees." hey join Gladstone, the Treasury's cat, Palmerston the Foreign Office mouser and Larry the Number 10 cat on the street, but hasn't been spotted by bored Downing Street photographers as she is kept inside. It is thought this is because they want to keep the cats apart. The Cabinet Office said in October they were "definitely not" getting a cat , despite "looking into it" earlier in the yea r. owever, it appears this situation has changed. A spokesperson told The Telegraph: "The cats have come from the Celia Hammond Animal Trust, and will be entirely funded by staff contributions. They are here to help with the mouse problem in 70 Whitehall." All the other cats were adopted from Battersea Dogs and Cats Home. Welcome to our new cats Evie & Ossie, rescued by @CeliaHammond . Arrived in time to celebrate our 100th birthday & catch some mice! #CO100  pic.twitter.com/DxC1ucXFyC his news comes after Philip Hammond moved his dogs into Number 10, where he lives with his wife. A source told The Telegraph he locks his dogs away to protect them from ferocious Larry. “The dogs are not free to roam around the house. The cat is all over the place,” said one friend. “Larry fights, he is pretty feisty. The dachshund is pretty small and I am not at all sure if it really came to a punch up who would come off best.” erhaps the most unusual pet in politics is Gavin Williamson's tarantula, Cronus, which he keeps on his desk. The hairy pet lives in Gavin Williamson's office in the House of Commons and this week was threatened with removal from the Palace by Westminster authorities. Mr Williamson said: "Everyone is obsessed with Palmerston and Larry the cat, but in the Whip’s office we have a proper pet. "I’ve had Cronus since he was a spider-ling, so I have a very paternal sort of approach. It’s very much the same sort of love and care that I give to my spider as I give to all MPs.”

There are now five cats on Downing Street.

The Cabinet Office confirmed to The Telegraph that they have adopted a black-and-white cat called Evie and another called Ossie to deal with the mouse problem in the Government offices.

A spokesperson said: "The cats are named Evie after Dame Evelyn Sharp, the first female permanent secretary, and Ossie after Sir Edward Osmotherly, author of the Osmotherly Rules, the guide that civil servants have when giving evidence to parliamentary select committees."