Sri Lanka to Sell 80% Stake in Strategically Placed Harbor to Chinese
Sri Lanka to Sell 80% Stake in Strategically Placed Harbor to Chinese
Biography Gordon Fairclough Gordon.Fairclough@wsj.com COLOMBO, Sri Lanka—Sri Lanka’s heavily indebted government signed an agreement in principle on Thursday to sell an 80% stake in a deep-water port on the nation’s southern coast, close to one of the world’s busiest sea lanes, to a Chinese state-owned company, senior officials said. More In Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Is Declared Malaria Free by World Health Organization Sri Lanka Hit by Deadly Floods and Landslides Movie Review: ‘Dheepan’ Tells a Story of Sri Lankan Refugees in France Google’s ‘Project Loon’ Balloon Internet Experiment Floats Into Sri Lanka Sri Lanka's Maid in Saudi Problem Under the deal, a copy of which was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal, China Merchants Port Holdings Co. would pay about $1.1 billion for its share of the port and adjoining land in Hambantota district. Sri Lanka’s ports authority would own 20%. Officials said they hoped to complete the arrangement by early January. Washington could react warily, depending on the details. The port, in Hambantota, lies along an important trade route linking the Middle East and Asia. And China’s navy has been stepping up its operations in the Indian Ocean as it seeks to project power westward. “We will watch carefully,” a senior U.S. official said. “These things do have long-term implications.”   Sri Lanka’s development minister, Malik Samarawickrama, dismissed strategic concerns, saying “there is no issue.” He said the deal was a commercial one that “would take a huge burden off the government.” Continue reading more . China Debt Hambantota harbor India South Asia Sri Lanka     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print  Isn't this how imperialism starts?

ENLARGE Overview of Hambantota Port Office, in Hambantota, Sri Lanka. Photo: Junho Kim/The Wall Street Journal

COLOMBO, Sri Lanka—Sri Lanka’s heavily indebted government signed an agreement in principle on Thursday to sell an 80% stake in a deep-water port on the nation’s southern coast, close to one of the world’s busiest sea lanes, to a Chinese state-owned company, senior officials said.

Under the deal, a copy of which was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal, China Merchants Port Holdings Co. would pay about $1.1 billion for its share of the port and adjoining land in Hambantota district.

Sri Lanka’s ports authority would own 20%. Officials said they hoped to complete the arrangement by early January.

Washington could react warily, depending on the details. The port, in Hambantota, lies along an important trade route linking the Middle East and Asia. And China’s navy has been stepping up its operations in the Indian Ocean as it seeks to project power westward.

“We will watch carefully,” a senior U.S. official said. “These things do have long-term implications.”

ENLARGE Overview of Hambantota Port Map, in Hambantota, Sri Lanka. Photo: Junho Kim/The Wall Street Journal

Sri Lanka’s development minister, Malik Samarawickrama, dismissed strategic concerns, saying “there is no issue.” He said the deal was a commercial one that “would take a huge burden off the government.”

Continue reading more.

For breaking news, features and analysis from India, follow WSJ India on Facebook.