Befikre Review: Ranveer's Charm And Vani's Spunk Could Have Made Befikre Watchable
Ranveer's Charm & Vani's Spunk Could've Made Befikre Watchable - If Their Characters Had Depth
Befikre Review: Ranveer's Charm And Vani's Spunk Could Have Made Befikre Watchable - If Their Characters Just Had Depth   Ranveer Singh, Vaani Kapoor Romantic Comedy 2h 30m Aditya Chopra Befikre aspires to be an uber cool, contemporary love story. It is about two ‘modern’ footloose, fancy-free people falling in and out of lust too soon. But what it ends up being is a predictable, wannabe, trying-hard-to-be-fun but actually just soppy. The guy is Dharam (Ranveer Singh) aka Dilli ka Launda, a struggling stand up comedian in a nondescript bar in Paris, who somehow miraculously has enough dough to date various women every night. Shayra has Indian parents, calls herself French and likes to eat aloo paratha under no circumstances except when she’s under stress. Oh and yes of course, Shayra is very rude to her parents, because well she’s cool, you see. When Dharam and Shayra meet, bodies collide, sparks fly and they decide to move in together. Why move in if it is just a fling, did you ask? Probably because Aditya Chopra in his revamp mode still thinks the idea of an unmarried couple living in together is terribly bold. Once together, the couple predictably start hating each other. Furniture and abuses are hurled at each other and the inevitable breakup happens. For some reason, Bollywood has recently discovered breakups in a big way. The couple then choose to remain friends till their love lives with other people start getting serious. Even as you sit through this movie, accurately guessing what’s going to happen next, once in a while come a few magical moments between the lead couple. But those are few and far in between and clearly not enough. Ranveer with his goofy, uninhibited charm and Vani with her spunk could have made this a more watchable film, if only they were given better fleshed out characters and some depth, consistency and novelty in their characters. Paris is beautiful, the Eiffel Tower is the ideal setting for a romantic evening and of course, the lead couple indulge in some serious lip locking. But really, where is the soul and more importantly, where is the imagination?

Verdict: 2/5

Cast: Ranveer Singh, Vaani Kapoor

Genre: Romantic Comedy

Duration: 2h 30m

Director: Aditya Chopra

Befikre aspires to be an uber cool, contemporary love story. It is about two ‘modern’ footloose, fancy-free people falling in and out of lust too soon. But what it ends up being is a predictable, wannabe, trying-hard-to-be-fun but actually just soppy.

IMDB

The guy is Dharam (Ranveer Singh) aka Dilli ka Launda, a struggling stand up comedian in a nondescript bar in Paris, who somehow miraculously has enough dough to date various women every night. Shayra has Indian parents, calls herself French and likes to eat aloo paratha under no circumstances except when she’s under stress. Oh and yes of course, Shayra is very rude to her parents, because well she’s cool, you see.

IMDB

When Dharam and Shayra meet, bodies collide, sparks fly and they decide to move in together. Why move in if it is just a fling, did you ask? Probably because Aditya Chopra in his revamp mode still thinks the idea of an unmarried couple living in together is terribly bold.

Once together, the couple predictably start hating each other. Furniture and abuses are hurled at each other and the inevitable breakup happens. For some reason, Bollywood has recently discovered breakups in a big way. The couple then choose to remain friends till their love lives with other people start getting serious.

IMDB

Even as you sit through this movie, accurately guessing what’s going to happen next, once in a while come a few magical moments between the lead couple. But those are few and far in between and clearly not enough. Ranveer with his goofy, uninhibited charm and Vani with her spunk could have made this a more watchable film, if only they were given better fleshed out characters and some depth, consistency and novelty in their characters.

IMDB

Paris is beautiful, the Eiffel Tower is the ideal setting for a romantic evening and of course, the lead couple indulge in some serious lip locking. But really, where is the soul and more importantly, where is the imagination?