Alleged Chicago Gang Boss Denies Ordering Hit on Informant
Alleged Chicago Gang Boss Denies Ordering Hit on Informant
Shares                The purported leader of Chicago's notorious Hobos street gang took the stand Thursday at his racketeering trial — one of the biggest in recent city history — to insist he didn't order a deadly hit on a gang associate-turned-informant to stop him from providing evidence that could put the gang leadership behind bars for life. The trial, in its third month and expected to end by Christmas , comes as national attention has focused on a spike in Chicago violence, which authorities say frequently stems from gang rivalry; there have been more than 700 homicides this year. Prosecutors have described Gregory "Bowlegs" Chester and five alleged Hobos subordinates on trial in U.S. District Court as "an all-star team of the worst of the worst" who "terrorized" the city. Among the co-defendants looking on as Chester testified was alleged Hobos hit man Paris Poe. Prosecutors say he fatally shot Keith Daniels in front of Daniels' screaming step-kids on April 14, 2013, days after Chester's arrest and shortly after Daniels spoke to the grand jurors who would later hand down an indictment leading to the current trial. Asked by defense attorney Beau Brindley why he was so adamant about not ordering Daniels' murder, Chester, 39, said the two men and their families had been close. "He was like family to me," he said. "His mother was like my mother." The Hobos was founded by members the Black Disciples and Gangster Disciples, then established a reputation for daring robberies and for resorting to torture and murder to expand their criminal empire on the city's South Side, prosecutors have said. But when he first took the stand Wednesday, Chester claimed no such gang as the Hobos even existed despite his full-arm tattoo emblazoned with the words — "Hobo: The Earth Is Our Turf." He insisted "hobo" referred, not to any gang, but to the nickname of a beloved dead friend. During cross examination Thursday, prosecutor Patrick Otlewski displayed a photograph in court of Chester and another one of the accused flashing hand signs the government says were meant to be an "H'' for "hobo." Chester denied it was a gang sign, telling jurors: "That's a celebration sign." Chester has repeatedly highlighted his severely deformed legs caused by a rare bone disease, saying it was inconceivable someone who struggled to even walk could rise to the top of a Chicago gang. He described himself Thursday as a one-man drug dealer who smartly invested the illicit profits into a record label, concerts and restaurants. "I'm a big time hustler," he said. "That's what I do." To prove racketeering, the government must show the defendants coordinated their criminal activities. But Chester said his co-defendants, while friends, had no hand in his crimes and he had no hand in theirs. Chester's decision to testify came as a surprise. Lawyers are often reluctant to let their clients take the witness stand because it opens them up to grilling by prosecutors on issues a judge would otherwise bar from trial. Otlewski asked Chester about smuggling synthetic marijuana into the Chicago federal jail where he's held during the trial. Chester admitted he swallowed a balloon filled with the drug that a friend slipped to him during an October visit. He told jurors he needed it to deal with painful nerve damage. Shares                  Alleged Chicago Gang Boss Denies Ordering Hit on Informant   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Emirati Student Killed by Ohio Police Officer Shot 5 Times   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizzeria to Face Federal Charges   Boy Calls 911 After Mother, Dog Fall Into Frozen Pond   Under IS Rule, Mosul Descended Into Darkness, Dread, Pain   Gov't to Require Cars Be Able to Talk to Each Other   Secret Santas Paying Tens of Thousands in Layaway Balances   Trump Likely to Back Mitt Romney's Niece for RNC Chair   Veteran With Double-Arm Transplant Shows Off Progress   Cafeteria Worker Donates Thousands of Toys to Kids in Hospital   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Jennifer Lawrence Gets Back at Chris Pratt for Pranks   Italy Judge Convicts 2 in Sinking That Claimed 700 Migrants   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   Boy Dies in Santa's Arms After Receiving Early Christmas Present

The purported leader of Chicago's notorious Hobos street gang took the stand Thursday at his racketeering trial — one of the biggest in recent city history — to insist he didn't order a deadly hit on a gang associate-turned-informant to stop him from providing evidence that could put the gang leadership behind bars for life.

The trial, in its third month and expected to end by Christmas, comes as national attention has focused on a spike in Chicago violence, which authorities say frequently stems from gang rivalry; there have been more than 700 homicides this year. Prosecutors have described Gregory "Bowlegs" Chester and five alleged Hobos subordinates on trial in U.S. District Court as "an all-star team of the worst of the worst" who "terrorized" the city.

Among the co-defendants looking on as Chester testified was alleged Hobos hit man Paris Poe. Prosecutors say he fatally shot Keith Daniels in front of Daniels' screaming step-kids on April 14, 2013, days after Chester's arrest and shortly after Daniels spoke to the grand jurors who would later hand down an indictment leading to the current trial.

Asked by defense attorney Beau Brindley why he was so adamant about not ordering Daniels' murder, Chester, 39, said the two men and their families had been close.

"He was like family to me," he said. "His mother was like my mother."

The Hobos was founded by members the Black Disciples and Gangster Disciples, then established a reputation for daring robberies and for resorting to torture and murder to expand their criminal empire on the city's South Side, prosecutors have said.

But when he first took the stand Wednesday, Chester claimed no such gang as the Hobos even existed despite his full-arm tattoo emblazoned with the words — "Hobo: The Earth Is Our Turf." He insisted "hobo" referred, not to any gang, but to the nickname of a beloved dead friend.

During cross examination Thursday, prosecutor Patrick Otlewski displayed a photograph in court of Chester and another one of the accused flashing hand signs the government says were meant to be an "H'' for "hobo." Chester denied it was a gang sign, telling jurors: "That's a celebration sign."

Chester has repeatedly highlighted his severely deformed legs caused by a rare bone disease, saying it was inconceivable someone who struggled to even walk could rise to the top of a Chicago gang.

He described himself Thursday as a one-man drug dealer who smartly invested the illicit profits into a record label, concerts and restaurants.

"I'm a big time hustler," he said. "That's what I do."

To prove racketeering, the government must show the defendants coordinated their criminal activities. But Chester said his co-defendants, while friends, had no hand in his crimes and he had no hand in theirs.

Chester's decision to testify came as a surprise. Lawyers are often reluctant to let their clients take the witness stand because it opens them up to grilling by prosecutors on issues a judge would otherwise bar from trial.

Otlewski asked Chester about smuggling synthetic marijuana into the Chicago federal jail where he's held during the trial. Chester admitted he swallowed a balloon filled with the drug that a friend slipped to him during an October visit. He told jurors he needed it to deal with painful nerve damage.