Rupert Murdoch returns for Sky as Fox makes £18.5bn takeover approach
Rupert Murdoch returns for Sky as Fox makes £18.5bn takeover approach
he Murdoch empire has returned to claim full control of Sky, five years after News Corp was humiliatingly forced to abandon pursuit as it was swept up in the maelstrom of the phone hacking scandal. Sky revealed yesterday afternoon as rumours swept the markets and its share price spiked that it had received an approach from 21st Century Fox that values it at £18.5bn. Fox already owns 39pc of Sky. Its approach for the remaining equity at £10.75 per share is 40pc more than the pay-TV giant was valued at at the end of trading on Tuesday, before talks began, and a 36pc premium on Thursday’s closing price. Sky, which has three Fox executives on its board including James Murdoch, its chairman, said the talks were being managed by a committee of independent directors. They have indicated they are willing to recommend Fox’s offer to shareholders, subject to agreement on undisclosed “material” terms that remain outstanding. Fox said there was no guarantee it will make a formal offer for Sky if the remaining matters are not resolved. It has until January 6 to clarify its intentions, signalling a fraught Christmas period for the line-up bankers called in to advise on the deal. Fox said the deal would bring together its television and film rights with Sky's distribution prowess. The British company, which now has subscribers in Ireland, Italy, Germany and Austria, is the biggest buyer of Fox programming. Last year it handed over nearly £400m in fees to its number one shareholder. A Fox spokesman said the combination would bring together its “global content business with Sky's world-class direct-to-consumer capabilities, which have made it the number one premium pay-TV provider in all its markets”. "It would also enhance Sky's leading position in entertainment and sport, and reinforce the U.K.'s standing as a top global hub for content generation and technological innovation,” he added. It comes with Fox rival and one-time takeover target Time Warner in line to be acquired by the US telecoms behemoth AT&T. Analysts expect content and distribution mergers to accelerate as competition for attention intensifies with the rise of internet streamers such as Netflix and Amazon. The Murdochs have made their move following a decline in Sky’s share price of around a third since it peaked at more than £11.40 last summer. The fall has been driven fears over the future of its core satellite subscription business and the rising cost of sports rights, as well as shocks from referendums in the UK and Italy. Fox is also in line to benefit from the decline in sterling. he media dynasty has returned for Sky after its previous attempt, under the News Corp banner, was scuppered by the political fallout of the phone hacking scandal. The Murdochs’ British newspapers and their stake in Sky were at the time part of the same company, which in part triggered an Ofcom investigation over the attempted takeover’s potential impact on media plurality. Ultimately News Corp was forced to abandon its bid, saying it was "too difficult to progress in this climate”, despite an apparent agreement to spin of Sky News to win regulatory approval. News Corp has  since been split into Fox and 'new' News Corp, which owns newspapers and other publishing assets. Claire Enders, the media analyst, said: “It’s a different structure and a different regulatory environment. The role of Rupert Murdoch has been redefined and there is more normal corporate governance. “It was so obvious it was going to happen. This is the bargain of a lifetime. At this price it’s accretive for Fox. Some shareholders will complain about the price but it shows James Murdoch believes in this company even though the market has sold it savagely this year. In the meantime Sky has embarked on a European expansion. It bought sister companies Sky Deutschland, part owned by Fox, and Sky Italia, wholly owned by Fox, for £7bn. Tom Watson, the Shadow Culture Secretary and phone hacking campaigner, said there were still regulatory concerns. "If the independent committee set up by the board of Sky agrees to accept the offer from 21st Century Fox it will incumbent on the regulatory authorities, including Ofcom, to ensure that media  plurality is upheld and that competition concerns are addressed," he said. "The bid must also be judged on its likely impact on the UK news market and the provision of robust and independent journalism. Finally, given the likely concentration of further media power in the hands of a single company, it is right that the fit and proper test should be applied by Ofcom if the deal is approved by Sky shareholders."

The Murdoch empire has returned to claim full control of Sky, five years after News Corp was humiliatingly forced to abandon pursuit as it was swept up in the maelstrom of the phone hacking scandal.

Sky revealed yesterday afternoon as rumours swept the markets and its share price spiked that it had received an approach from 21st Century Fox that values it at £18.5bn.

Fox already owns 39pc of Sky. Its approach for the remaining equity at £10.75 per share is 40pc more than the pay-TV giant was valued at at the end of trading on Tuesday, before talks began, and a 36pc premium on Thursday’s closing price.

Sky, which has three Fox executives on its board including James Murdoch, its chairman, said the talks were being managed by a committee of independent directors. They have indicated they are willing to recommend Fox’s offer to shareholders, subject to agreement on undisclosed “material” terms that remain outstanding.

Fox said there was no guarantee it will make a formal offer for Sky if the remaining matters are not resolved. It has until January 6 to clarify its intentions, signalling a fraught Christmas period for the line-up bankers called in to advise on the deal.

Fox said the deal would bring together its television and film rights with Sky's distribution prowess. The British company, which now has subscribers in Ireland, Italy, Germany and Austria, is the biggest buyer of Fox programming. Last year it handed over nearly £400m in fees to its number one shareholder.

A Fox spokesman said the combination would bring together its “global content business with Sky's world-class direct-to-consumer capabilities, which have made it the number one premium pay-TV provider in all its markets”.

"It would also enhance Sky's leading position in entertainment and sport, and reinforce the U.K.'s standing as a top global hub for content generation and technological innovation,” he added.

It comes with Fox rival and one-time takeover target Time Warner in line to be acquired by the US telecoms behemoth AT&T. Analysts expect content and distribution mergers to accelerate as competition for attention intensifies with the rise of internet streamers such as Netflix and Amazon.

The Murdochs have made their move following a decline in Sky’s share price of around a third since it peaked at more than £11.40 last summer. The fall has been driven fears over the future of its core satellite subscription business and the rising cost of sports rights, as well as shocks from referendums in the UK and Italy. Fox is also in line to benefit from the decline in sterling.