Record sales of gin as Britain knocks back over 1 billion g&t's
Record sales of gin as Britain knocks back over 1 billion g&t's
Makers of spirits hailed 2016 as the “year of gin” after it was revealed we are now drinking more of the juniper-flavoured tipple than ever. Annual sales topped £1 billion for the first time as the UK collectively knocked back 283,000 hectolitres of the spirit, equivalent to 1.12 billion gin and tonics. Sales in bars and restaurants rose 19 per cent in the year and the public’s unquenchable thirst for the spirit has seen the booming industry open 40 new distilleries in that time.   'Colony gin' on The Apprentice criticised for 'slavery connotations' “Mothers ruin” has undergone a remarkable image transformation and is now considered fashionable and sophisticated. The modern gin craze, unlike its eighteenth century predecessor, is good news for the economy as UK gin brands have benefited from America’s love for hit shows like Downton Abbey and the James Bond franchise. The UK sold £159m worth of British gin to the US in 2015 - a fivefold increase over the last decade. WSTA chief executive Miles Beale said: “There are many reasons why people may not feel like celebrating 2016 but the WSTA are pleased to give you something happy to reflect on - 2016 can now be remembered as the ‘Great British Gin Take Off’. “We hope that government supports our innovative gin makers who have driven an extraordinary increase in UK exports, up 166 per cent since 2000.” William Hogarth's, 'Gin Lane' depicted a nightmarish view of the effects of the spirit on London during the first 'Gin Craze'. Beale also took the opportunity to urge the Government to cut excise duty. “The UK spirit industry is one of the most heavily taxed in Europe with 76% of a bottle of spirits accounted for by tax, the fourth highest duty rate for spirits in the EU. “Let’s make sure gin continues to boom in 2017,” he said. Sainsbury’s said predicts customers stocking up on booze for christmas will splash £1 million on gin on 23 December alone. Louise Loveder, Sainsbury’s buyer for spirits said: “Millennials in particular have developed a taste for more premium gin offerings, and are the age group most likely to push the boat out and spend more on a bottle of gin this Christmas.” More about: Gin Alcohol Comments

Makers of spirits hailed 2016 as the “year of gin” after it was revealed we are now drinking more of the juniper-flavoured tipple than ever.

Annual sales topped £1 billion for the first time as the UK collectively knocked back 283,000 hectolitres of the spirit, equivalent to 1.12 billion gin and tonics.

Sales in bars and restaurants rose 19 per cent in the year and the public’s unquenchable thirst for the spirit has seen the booming industry open 40 new distilleries in that time.

“Mothers ruin” has undergone a remarkable image transformation and is now considered fashionable and sophisticated. The modern gin craze, unlike its eighteenth century predecessor, is good news for the economy as UK gin brands have benefited from America’s love for hit shows like Downton Abbey and the James Bond franchise. The UK sold £159m worth of British gin to the US in 2015 - a fivefold increase over the last decade.

WSTA chief executive Miles Beale said: “There are many reasons why people may not feel like celebrating 2016 but the WSTA are pleased to give you something happy to reflect on - 2016 can now be remembered as the ‘Great British Gin Take Off’.

“We hope that government supports our innovative gin makers who have driven an extraordinary increase in UK exports, up 166 per cent since 2000.”

William Hogarth's, 'Gin Lane' depicted a nightmarish view of the effects of the spirit on London during the first 'Gin Craze'.



Beale also took the opportunity to urge the Government to cut excise duty. “The UK spirit industry is one of the most heavily taxed in Europe with 76% of a bottle of spirits accounted for by tax, the fourth highest duty rate for spirits in the EU.

“Let’s make sure gin continues to boom in 2017,” he said.

Sainsbury’s said predicts customers stocking up on booze for christmas will splash £1 million on gin on 23 December alone.

Louise Loveder, Sainsbury’s buyer for spirits said: “Millennials in particular have developed a taste for more premium gin offerings, and are the age group most likely to push the boat out and spend more on a bottle of gin this Christmas.”