Meet the Romanian high school basketball freshman who is 7-foot-7
Meet the 7-foot-7 Romanian high school basketball player
Meet the 7-foot-7 Romanian high school basketball player Tom Brady is X factor in flawed AFC playoff field 1 Related Most QB struggle throwing deep vs Ravens -- but not Tom Brady Rams COO: Fisher firing 'organizational failure' Jay Z takes shot at Jackson over use of 'posse' Ravens, Browns, Cards to make London debuts New MLB hazing rules ban dressing as women Police report: Floyd changed story during arrest Ex-Raven Reuland, 29, dies after brain aneurysm Ravens show resiliency, but Patriots on different level What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 14: Giants surging, Broncos in trouble Patriots unseat Cowboys for No. 1 in Week 15 Power Rankings Rams had no choice but to fire Jeff Fisher 3 Related Rams players believe they let Jeff Fisher down What doomed Jeff Fisher's Rams tenure: He didn't adapt Dickerson on Rams' firing Fisher: 'It was time' Debating the greatest sneakers of all time What's the holdup in new NBA deal? Has Lane Kiffin grown up? 1 Related Houston regent: Kiffin not safe hire for Cougars Lamar Jackson leads star-studded ESPN All-America team Jarrett Stidham turns Auburn into a playoff contender for 2017 Why panic? Because it's time to panic 'Rogue One' meets Ronaldo & Co. Garrett: 'Dak's going to play quarterback' A verdict many applaud is still a total loss for New Orleans A fit Panda will help, but pitching must carry Red Sox in '17 More than Crosby giving Pens flight Time for a postseason play-in game Bruins' Pastrnak is Mr. Personality The making of world No. 1 Angelique Kerber Scorecard: Joshua, Mares, Charlo and Crawford shine Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment He's taller than any current NBA player, and he's just 16 years old. Robert Bobroczky has gone from a star overseas to a legitimate high school basketball player at the Spire Institute in Geneva, Ohio. He has the size, and the skills aren't necessarily far behind. Check it out for yourself: Bobroczky's jumper looks smooth with good footwork for a player his size. With a wiry frame, he has been working on bulking up and putting on weight, so that once he does get in the dangerous paint area, he's able to take advantage. With the length and polish he already possesses, could Bobroczky be the next international sensation? Lucky for him, with his age, he has plenty of time to make it happen. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

He's taller than any current NBA player, and he's just 16 years old.

Robert Bobroczky has gone from a star overseas to a legitimate high school basketball player at the Spire Institute in Geneva, Ohio.

He has the size, and the skills aren't necessarily far behind. Check it out for yourself:

Bobroczky's jumper looks smooth with good footwork for a player his size. With a wiry frame, he has been working on bulking up and putting on weight, so that once he does get in the dangerous paint area, he's able to take advantage.

With the length and polish he already possesses, could Bobroczky be the next international sensation? Lucky for him, with his age, he has plenty of time to make it happen.