Hannity: The Left's 'Crybaby Freak-Out' Is Now at Mind-Numbing Levels

Hannity: The Left's 'Crybaby Freak-Out' Is Now at Mind-Numbing Levels // // The collective freak-out by the "crybaby left" is now reaching mind-numbing levels, said in his monologue Thursday night. He rattled off numerous examples of recent "unhinged" comments by liberals, who are warning about what will happen under President-elect Donald Trump. Filmmaker Michael Moore predicted that Republicans will convene in Congress on Jan. 21 - the day after Trump's inauguration - to pass "law after law after law" for him to sign. "It's going to be one piece of suffering against people after another," he said, calling on the Democrats to do everything they can stop the "onslaught." Sean's response? "Michael, calm down. The suffering happened under Obama. 13 million more Americans on food stamps. Eight million more in poverty. Lowest labor participation rate since the 70's. That's [from] Obama's policies," said Hannity. Also this week, Joy Behar questioned Trump's mental state on the "The View," while co-host Whoopi Goldberg told female viewers to "watch your uterus." Watch Hannity's full monologue above and the discussion with Laura Ingraham below.

Poll: Majority Want Gov't to Prevent 'Fake News' from Spreading

'Delusional': Judge Jeanine Sounds Off on Obama's 'Progress' Against Terror

The collective freak-out by the "crybaby left" is now reaching mind-numbing levels, Sean Hannity said in his monologue Thursday night.

He rattled off numerous examples of recent "unhinged" comments by liberals, who are warning about what will happen under President-elect Donald Trump.

Filmmaker Michael Moore predicted that Republicans will convene in Congress on Jan. 21 - the day after Trump's inauguration - to pass "law after law after law" for him to sign.

"It's going to be one piece of suffering against people after another," he said, calling on the Democrats to do everything they can stop the "onslaught."

Sean's response?

"Michael, calm down. The suffering happened under Obama. 13 million more Americans on food stamps. Eight million more in poverty. Lowest labor participation rate since the 70's. That's [from] Obama's policies," said Hannity.

Also this week, Joy Behar questioned Trump's mental state on the "The View," while co-host Whoopi Goldberg told female viewers to "watch your uterus."

Watch Hannity's full monologue above and the discussion with Laura Ingraham below.

LATEST UPDATES: The Trump Transition

Tomi Lahren: Mainstream Media Largely 'Caters to the Coasts'

Tucker Battles Activist Who Compared Trump's 'Person of Year' Nod to Hitler's

McCain: 'Shameless' for Obama to Claim Rise of ISIS Took Him by Surprise