What's the gender pay gap in my industry? New government tool lets you find out
What's the gender pay gap in my industry? New government tool lets you find out
rom April next year there will be nowhere to hide as every large employer will have to publish their gender pay gap and gender bonus pay gaps. Until then, and to get the ball rolling, the minister for women and equalities Justine Greening has today unveiled a tool to help us find out the size of the gender pay gap by occupation. The online tool, created by the government and the Office for National Statistics (ONS), shows that construction and building trades, and financial managers and directors have the highest gender pay gaps. For construction and building trades supervisors the gender pay gap is 45.4 per cent in favour of men. For financial managers and directors that figure is 36.5 per cent. On average women are paid 7.2 per cent less than men in journalism. obs where the average pay is most similar between the sexes include waiters and waitresses, bar staff, fishmongers and nurses, all of which have a gender pay difference of 0 per cent. It swings the other way too: female midwives are paid 61.8 per cent more than men. Probation officers (25.3 per cent), fitness instructors (22.9 per cent) and childminders (20.5 per cent) are all professions in which women are better paid than men. The tool uses data from the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings and is published alongside a quiz allowing people to test their knowledge on the gender pay gap across a variety of professions. The benefits of helping women to unlock their talents are huge -eliminating work-related gender gaps could add £150 billion to our annual GDP in 2025. espite the gender pay gap being at a record low since records began of 18.1 per cent between men and women, for all employees, more women work in lower paid jobs, are more likely to work part-time and are under-represented in senior roles. Minister for women and equalities Justine Greening said: “Britain has the lowest gender pay gap on record, there are more women in work than ever before, more women-led businesses than ever before and there are now women on every board in the FTSE 100. “But if we are to help women to reach their potential and eliminate the gender pay gap, we need to shine a light on our workplaces to see where there is more to do to. This tool will empower both men and women to challenge this issue in their profession and help people to make more informed decisions about their career.” nn Francke, Chief Executive of the Chartered Management Institute said: “According to CMI’s long-running research, the gender pay gap has stuck stubbornly around 23%. Men are 40% more likely than women to be promoted in management roles. “The combination of transparency and targets will help employers become more aware of their own glass pyramid and encourage them to do something about it. This is great for business because diverse teams are more productive and boost employee engagement.” The April regulations will affect almost 8,000 employers with around 11 million employees and shine a light on workplaces practices that could be preventing women from reaching the top in their organisations.

From April next year there will be nowhere to hide as every large employer will have to publish their gender pay gap and gender bonus pay gaps.

Until then, and to get the ball rolling, the minister for women and equalities Justine Greening has today unveiled a tool to help us find out the size of the gender pay gap by occupation.

The online tool, created by the government and the Office for National Statistics (ONS), shows that construction and building trades, and financial managers and directors have the highest gender pay gaps.

For construction and building trades supervisors the gender pay gap is 45.4 per cent in favour of men. For financial managers and directors that figure is 36.5 per cent. On average women are paid 7.2 per cent less than men in journalism.