Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent to Step Down Next Year
Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent to Step Down Next Year
Shares                 Coca-Cola said Friday that CEO Muhtar Kent will step down as CEO next year and be replaced by Chief Operating Officer James Quincey. The world's largest beverage maker has been under pressure to grow as people around the world drink less soda, including its flagship Coke. In October, the Atlanta company reported that its third-quarter profit fell 28 percent. Last year it rolled out a pricy milk drink called Fairlife that it says has more protein and less sugar than regular milk. The company also makes Sprite, Fanta and Dasani water. Quincey, who was named president and chief operation officer last year, will take over as CEO on May 1. The 51-year-old has been with the beverage maker for about 20 years. Kent, who is 64 years old, will continue as chairman of the board after he steps down as CEO. He has been CEO for more than eight years and first joined the company nearly 40 years ago. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett , whose holding company Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is Coca-Cola's largest shareholder, said he was pleased with the succession plans. "I know James and like him," Buffett said in a statement, "and believe the company has made a smart investment in its future with his selection." Shares of The Coca-Cola Co. rose 99 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $41.97 in morning trading Friday. Its stock is down about 1.6 percent since a year ago. ——— This story has been corrected to say that Kent has been CEO for more than eight years, not seven. Shares                  Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent to Step Down Next Year   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Woman and Her Dog Rescued After Falling Into Frozen Pond   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night   Emirati Student Killed by Ohio Police Officer Shot 5 Times   Cosby Quips to Security, 'Don't Tase Me, Bro' Before Court   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizza Parlor Expected in Court   2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested   Under IS Rule, Mosul Descended Into Darkness, Dread, Pain   Secret Santas Paying Tens of Thousands in Layaway Balances   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Trump Likely to Back Mitt Romney's Niece for RNC Chair   Trump Picks Goldman Sachs President to Be Economic Adviser   Trump’s CIA Rebukes Create 'Unprecedented' Feud With Intelligence Agencies   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Senate to Probe Reports of Russia Hacking: McConnell   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Boy Dies in Santa's Arms After Receiving Early Christmas Present   Italy Judge Convicts 2 in Sinking That Claimed 700 Migrants   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now

Coca-Cola said Friday that CEO Muhtar Kent will step down as CEO next year and be replaced by Chief Operating Officer James Quincey.

The world's largest beverage maker has been under pressure to grow as people around the world drink less soda, including its flagship Coke. In October, the Atlanta company reported that its third-quarter profit fell 28 percent.

Last year it rolled out a pricy milk drink called Fairlife that it says has more protein and less sugar than regular milk. The company also makes Sprite, Fanta and Dasani water.

Quincey, who was named president and chief operation officer last year, will take over as CEO on May 1. The 51-year-old has been with the beverage maker for about 20 years.

Kent, who is 64 years old, will continue as chairman of the board after he steps down as CEO. He has been CEO for more than eight years and first joined the company nearly 40 years ago.

Billionaire investor Warren Buffett, whose holding company Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is Coca-Cola's largest shareholder, said he was pleased with the succession plans.

"I know James and like him," Buffett said in a statement, "and believe the company has made a smart investment in its future with his selection."

Shares of The Coca-Cola Co. rose 99 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $41.97 in morning trading Friday. Its stock is down about 1.6 percent since a year ago.

———

This story has been corrected to say that Kent has been CEO for more than eight years, not seven.