This is real life: Trump says 'All the women want it to be Man of the Year'
This is real life: Trump says 'All the women want it to be Man of the Year'
In Donald Trump's America the annual "Person of the Year" award that he just won would revert back to its original title, "Man of the Year" and women would be all about it. At an Iowa rally Thursday night, Trump boasted about his new title and reminded the crowd that used to call the honor "man" instead of "person." Why the change, according to Trump? "They want to be politically correct, that's OK," he said. Trump named TIME's "Person of the Year," promptly criticizes them for not calling it "Man of the Year" pic.twitter.com/el1EkJ4byh — Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) December 9, 2016 Then again Friday, he brought up the "PC" award name at a Louisiana rally. This time he asked the audience if should go back to the title they used before 1999 . "Who'd rather have it the 'Man of the Year?'" he asked the cheering crowd. When he asked about the current "person" title that elicited some boos and a more tepid response. But Trump realized there were a lot of women in the audience ("I got a lot of women here, what about the women?"). So he decided to conduct his applause-o-meter poll again to see if "man" or "person" was the crowd favorite. Trump is now complaining about being named Time's "Person of the Year": "Who would rather have it be the Man of the Year?" pic.twitter.com/9Id0zGExbX — Colin Jones (@colinjones) December 9, 2016 This time, the "man" title clearly won, so Trump concluded, "All the women want it to be 'Man of the Year.'" He did say, "Anyway, who cares?" after his unscientific poll, somewhat dismissing the whole issue. But this was the second time in only two days he brought up the award and its gender-neutral title. BONUS: Watch this female engineer challenge Rick Santorum after he suggests she leave the country

In Donald Trump's America the annual Time "Person of the Year" award that he just won would revert back to its original title, "Man of the Year" and women would be all about it.

At an Iowa rally Thursday night, Trump boasted about his new title and reminded the crowd that Time used to call the honor "man" instead of "person." Why the change, according to Trump? "They want to be politically correct, that's OK," he said.

Trump named TIME's "Person of the Year," promptly criticizes them for not calling it "Man of the Year" pic.twitter.com/el1EkJ4byh — Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) December 9, 2016

Then again Friday, he brought up the "PC" award name at a Louisiana rally. This time he asked the audience if Time should go back to the title they used before 1999.

"Who'd rather have it the 'Man of the Year?'" he asked the cheering crowd. When he asked about the current "person" title that elicited some boos and a more tepid response.

But Trump realized there were a lot of women in the audience ("I got a lot of women here, what about the women?"). So he decided to conduct his applause-o-meter poll again to see if "man" or "person" was the crowd favorite.

Trump is now complaining about being named Time's "Person of the Year": "Who would rather have it be the Man of the Year?" pic.twitter.com/9Id0zGExbX — Colin Jones (@colinjones) December 9, 2016

This time, the "man" title clearly won, so Trump concluded, "All the women want it to be 'Man of the Year.'"

He did say, "Anyway, who cares?" after his unscientific poll, somewhat dismissing the whole issue. But this was the second time in only two days he brought up the award and its gender-neutral title.