Cult Beauty Brand Glossier Raises $24M Series B To Open Retail Stores, Go International
Cult Beauty Brand Glossier Raises $24M Series B To Open Retail Stores, Go International
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Clare O'Connor       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Emily Weiss, founder and CEO of Glossier. Photo c/o Glossier. Internet-born beauty startup Glossier has raised a $24 million Series B round as it looks to open permanent retail stores and take its brand international. The cult cosmetics company's founder and CEO Emily Weiss announced the new funding on Wednesday on her popular beauty site Into The Gloss. The round, led by new investor IVP, puts Glossier's fundraising total at over $35 million for the Instagram-favorite brand, which regularly racks up waiting lists for its brow gels and serums. It is also one of the largest rounds of funding raised by a woman-led startup in recent years. Glossier's Black Tie Set, one of its latest releases. Photo c/o Glossier. "The Series B fundraise marks the third time in three years that I’ve asked total strangers for money so I can build what a lot of people thought was a Crazy Idea," wrote former Forbes 30 Under 30 list member Weiss in her post on the round. "Except this time around, the idea of a digitally native, community-driven beauty brand didn’t seem so insane—and that’s because so many of you have proven that it’s not." She also name-checked early investor Kirsten Green of Forerunner Ventures, the subject of a recent Forbes profile , who led Glossier's seed round. "Everyone else said no," she wrote. "This was before Glossier had a name or any products to speak of. I just knew in my heart of hearts that the beauty industry could do better, that they were underestimating how smart women are and where they were communicating with each other." As well as opening retail stores and expanding globally, Glossier's $24 million Series B will go toward launching products in two new categories. "We’ll continue to invest in new technology, because we think every woman should have the ability to be connected through her beauty knowledge, opinions, products, and routine," Weiss wrote. For more on Glossier's early days, listen to Weiss' episode of Forbes' Million$ podcast here .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Internet-born beauty startup Glossier has raised a $24 million Series B round as it looks to open permanent retail stores and take its brand international.

The cult cosmetics company's founder and CEO Emily Weiss announced the new funding on Wednesday on her popular beauty site Into The Gloss.

The round, led by new investor IVP, puts Glossier's fundraising total at over $35 million for the Instagram-favorite brand, which regularly racks up waiting lists for its brow gels and serums.

It is also one of the largest rounds of funding raised by a woman-led startup in recent years.

"The Series B fundraise marks the third time in three years that I’ve asked total strangers for money so I can build what a lot of people thought was a Crazy Idea," wrote former Forbes 30 Under 30 list member Weiss in her post on the round.

"Except this time around, the idea of a digitally native, community-driven beauty brand didn’t seem so insane—and that’s because so many of you have proven that it’s not."

She also name-checked early investor Kirsten Green of Forerunner Ventures, the subject of a recent Forbes profile, who led Glossier's seed round.

"Everyone else said no," she wrote. "This was before Glossier had a name or any products to speak of. I just knew in my heart of hearts that the beauty industry could do better, that they were underestimating how smart women are and where they were communicating with each other."

As well as opening retail stores and expanding globally, Glossier's $24 million Series B will go toward launching products in two new categories.

"We’ll continue to invest in new technology, because we think every woman should have the ability to be connected through her beauty knowledge, opinions, products, and routine," Weiss wrote.

For more on Glossier's early days, listen to Weiss' episode of Forbes' Million$ podcast here.