Why are we so passionate about the smiling poop emoji?



Why are we so passionate about the smiling poop emoji?

Posted

The smiling poop's ability to transcend language barriers and political differences has seen it become one of the most popular emojis in existence, writes Samantha Selinger-Morris. And its ineffable charm resonates in surprisingly profound ways.

It may sound like a situation ripped from an old Seinfeld script, but it's a social quandary most of us have struggled with, fruitlessly.

It's Christmas, you dip your hand into a hat to select the name of the person to whom you must give a Kris Kringle gift, only to discover it's the office snitch. What can you give them that will convey your distaste, but without you ending up being yanked into the Human Resources office?

Last week, Sydney baker Andres Fatso offered up what she thinks will be the perfect solution: smiling poop emoji cupcakes.

"You know, [you think], 'You're a little shit sometimes'," says Ms Fatso, who posted an image of her chocolate cupcakes — massive chocolate icing swirl on top, to resemble the poop, with white and black candy eyes and a smile — on Instagram, where she has more than 35,000 followers.

"I'm going to give you a shit emoji.'"

Until fairly recently, one could safely assume that any "gift" involving faeces would likely be reciprocated with a slap in the face, or the accusation that you have the emotional maturity of a four-year-old.

But in the past 12 months, the smiling poop emoji has become an unexpectedly beloved icon, among both the young and the not-so-young.

Its ability to ease uncomfortable social interactions — from discussing opposing political opinions to admitting first-world guilt — has seen it proliferate, well, almost everywhere.

'The most flexible of all the characters'

Artisans on Etsy now offer everything from earrings to buttons and slippers in the shape of the emoji.

In July, music lovers at the Splendour in the Grass music festival, near Byron Bay, flocked to sit in a giant inflatable smiling pink poop emoji tent, created by a Spanish art collective. (In it, guests were treated to — you guessed it — soft serve chocolate ice-cream that resembles the emoji.)

In September, Indian actress Deepika Padukone was featured in a Vanity Fair magazine spread of hot young talents in which she declared that her most "overused emoji" was the smiling poop.

And earlier this year, a couple in Western Australia transformed a termite mound, off the side of a highway they frequently travel on, into a smiling poop emoji, with giant accessories from Kmart.

"The poop emoji is just the most flexible of all the characters out there," says Jeremy Burge, the Australian founder of Emojipedia (a Wikipedia for emojis).

He says it is currently one of the most popular of all the approximately 2,000 emojis in existence, and that he sees it regularly, in the form of a throw cushion, being sold in Tube stations in London, England, where he currently lives.

"It's a mixed meaning. It's smiling, so it's happy, but it's poop," Mr Burge says.

"You could [mean, by using it], 'This is great'. But, more to the point, you could use it anywhere, and people don't quite know what you mean by it. You can use it in any context."

From birthday parties to politics

For Lisa Williams, the Torquay-based owner of an Etsy boutique that sells an inflatable foil smiling poop emoji balloon, the emoji is the perfect way to communicate to friends that most modern of messages — that something is a "first world problem".

"If something was a bit crappy, we would use it [in a text], in a joking way; you know, 'We're all fairly lucky, nothing in our lives is that bad'," says Ms Williams, 38.

It meets an entirely different need for the children and tweens who buy the balloon, however: "They can sort of say, 'shit', with their poo emoji, without having to use the language, or get in trouble."

The emoji similarly enables grown-ups to dodge censorship, says Dr Pauline Bryant, a visiting fellow in the Linguistics Program at the Australian National University, because we can express "disgust, dislike, disapproval, without having to actually spell out words that might actually get blocked by a [computer] filter".

"And there is so much going on in the world that needs a comment like a poo emoji. Political things, and, generally, the state of the world," she says.

Indeed, although the emoji was first introduced in 2010, it surged in popularity in the last year, thanks in part to the contentious American presidential election.

Last month, a hacker placed a smiling poop emoji on the front page of American president-elect Donald Trump's website.

It was pulled down quickly, presumably by Mr Trump's staff, but not before the Internet exploded with gleeful headlines. ("Someone took a shit on Donald Trump's website; Great job, Internet!" wrote entertainment website AV Club.)

Earlier this year, both Democrats and Republicans rejoiced at the launch of Politicians To Poop, a Chrome browser extension that allows computer users to "poopify" the names of both presidential candidates, by replacing all mention of them with the smiling poop emoji.

As online technology magazine CNet.com, put it: "The smiling poop emoji is the hero the US deserves."

And, adds Dr Bryant, the poop emoji is also useful for helping people discuss dissenting political opinions with loved ones, in a text or email, without upsetting them.

"How can you be mad, or offended, by an emoji that actually looks like soft serve ice cream with big eyes and a smile?" she says.

The smiling poop's serious side

The idea of excrement being co-opted to enable the discussion of serious topics can seem counterintuitive. But emojis, in general, have been gaining legitimacy.

Oxford Dictionaries declared — for the first time ever — that the "word of the year" for 2015 was a pictograph (the "Face with Tears Emoji"). Meanwhile, classic texts like the Bible, and Moby Dick, have been translated into emoji.

And the smiling poop emoji, in particular, was used last year by a serious charity. Water Aid, which raises funds to provide clean water and toilets to the 2.4 billion people who lack them, launched its #GiveAShit campaign, with the poop emoji at its centre.

The charity enlisted celebrities to post a customized smiling poop emoji that resembled them, to their Instagram accounts. ("Isn't it uncanny?" actor Allan Cumming wrote, on Instagram, of his poop, which sported round black spectacles and a swoop of grey hair.)

This isn't to say that the emoji is entirely unproblematic. Someone — presumably a critic — tore down the Western Australian smiling poop emoji termite mound after a week.

And, by combining symbols that convey disgust and glee, the emoji can lead to confusion.

Mr Burge recalls being texted a variety of emojis — including the dancing girl, the smiley face, and the smiling poop — after a night out with friends.

"You kind of go, 'Was that just telling a story about what happened?' You don't really know what they mean by that. Did anything go wrong?" he says.

'It's deep, if you think about it'

Still, for many others, the emoji has an ineffable charm that resonates in surprisingly profound ways.

"If that poop's not happy, why are you not happy?" said my eight-year-old daughter, when I asked her why the emoji was so popular.

(Rainn Wilson, the star of the American version of the TV show The Office, feels the same, tweeting in July: "He's a pile of poo but he still has a smile on his face. He's hanging in there. So can you!")

"It is deep, if you think about it," says Ms Fatso, the baker, who is also a full-time nurse. She says the smiling poop always puts a smile on her face, and is a welcome contrast to the suffering she sees almost daily.

And, she adds, giving a smiling poop emoji to someone you don't like — in any form — could even shift the relationship in a new, positive direction.

"It could really turn that relationship around. [The other person] might think, 'They've got humour! They're happy to call me a shit, and they can be honest and up front about it."

Topics: popular-culture, happiness, offbeat, internet-culture, social-media, australia