Solomon Islands brace for further tremors after magnitude-7.0 earthquake hits, tsunami threat eases



Solomon Islands brace for further tremors after magnitude-7.0 earthquake hits, tsunami threat eases

Updated

The Solomon Islands have been rattled by another powerful earthquake, but a local aid organisation says no major damage was caused.

The quake follows yesterday's more powerful 7.8 quake, which damaged at least 30 buildings and forced some locals to scramble to higher ground.

Aid organisation, Live and Learn, told the ABC one person was injured in Makira as a result of yesterday's quake.

Live and Learn country manager Elmah Panisi said there was no major damage caused by the most recent earthquake, but residents have been keeping alert for further tremors.

"People are making their way to higher ground, from the sea to the hills," she said.

"People are bracing their houses and just making sure they are prepared if there is another earthquake."

Speaking from the capital Honiara, World Vision's Pacific Timor-Leste spokeswoman Suzy Sainovski said it had been hard to get a full assessment from some more remote communities, some of which did not have mobile phone coverage.

"There are some initial reports that 3,000 people have been affected," Ms Sainovski said.

"Some of these are traditional houses that are on stilts, and made with vegetation."

The quake struck near the island of Makira.

Ms Sainovski said in the town of Kirakira on the island, the quake damaged a hospital, a church and other buildings including the World Vision office.

She said 20 people were evacuated from a hospital and that the quake had caused some power failures throughout the country.

Tsunami warning lifted

Authorities have lifted a warning of potential hazardous tsunami waves.

The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre (PTWC) initially said waves of between one and three metres were possible following this morning's shallow magnitude-7.0 quake.

However, the centre said the threat had largely passed and only small waves were recorded along the coastline.

Tsunami waves of less than 0.3 metres above the tide level are also forecast for Australia, Fiji, Kiriati, Nauru, New Caledonia, Papua New Guinea, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.

Solomon Islands has been hit by a series of aftershocks since Friday's initial big quake that struck 130 kilometres from the capital Honiara.

Police said they had been told 35 houses were damaged on the island of Makira, including the police barracks at the provincial capital Kirakira.

Most of the buildings damaged were traditional-style houses.

The clean-up begins

The National Disaster Management Office is readying itself for the clean-up.

"NDMO is making preparations to do the assessment and send in supplies as soon as possible," Ms Panisi said.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop, visiting the Pacific on Friday, said Australia would provide assistance once a request was received.

"The Australian Government has in place pre-positioned supplies for shelter, water, sanitation, food," Ms Bishop said.

ABC/AP

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, solomon-islands, pacific

First posted