Louis Tomlinson’s One Direction Family Sends Love After Mother’s Death
Louis Tomlinson’s One Direction Family Sends Love After Mother’s Death
Louis Tomlinson is receiving an outpouring of love and support following the news of his mother’s death. @Louis_Tomlinson love you bro! All of your family is in my prayers. proud of your strength and know your mum is too x — zayn (@zaynmalik) December 9, 2016 Very sad news . Louis I love you mate and I'm / all of us are here for you all the way . You're mum was an incredible person . — Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial) December 9, 2016 Thinking of you and your family .love from my family to yours.. — Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial) December 9, 2016 Liam Payne posted a heartwarming note on Instagram: “Louis, I’m so sorry for you my brother my heart aches for you, just know I love you the same from a million miles away as I do right next to you,” he began . “I’m always here for you through everything as you have been for me. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family at this incredibly sad time I can’t begin to imagine what you are all going through. Rip Johanna you are forever in my thoughts.” @Louis_Tomlinson my heart breaks for you. I am so sorry. My thoughts are with you and your loved ones at this incredibly tragic time. — Cheryl (@CherylOfficial) December 9, 2016 Simon Cowell, who ultimately signed the group, also tweeted to Louis. Heartbroken for you @Louis_Tomlinson . Your mum Jay was an incredible person. Sending you all my love — Simon Cowell (@SimonCowell) December 9, 2016 Devoted 1D fans have continued to make #RIPJohannah a trending topic on Twitter. Louis was very close with his mom and would often bring her as his date to events. While news of Johannah’s illness was kept private, the family confirmed she died Wednesday after being hospitalized since May. “Earlier this year Johannah was diagnosed with a very aggressive form of leukemia that required immediate and continuous treatment,” the statement read. “We respectfully request that the family are given time and space to grieve in private.” Félicité

Louis Tomlinson is receiving an outpouring of love and support following the news of his mother’s death. Johannah Deakin passed away at age 43 after battling an aggressive form of leukemia.

Members of Tomlinson’s One Direction family, including ex-member Zayn Malik, have expressed sadness on social media.

@Louis_Tomlinson love you bro! All of your family is in my prayers. proud of your strength and know your mum is too x — zayn (@zaynmalik) December 9, 2016





Niall Horan also tweeted out support.

Very sad news . Louis I love you mate and I'm / all of us are here for you all the way . You're mum was an incredible person . — Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial) December 9, 2016





Thinking of you and your family .love from my family to yours.. — Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial) December 9, 2016





Liam Payne posted a heartwarming note on Instagram: “Louis, I’m so sorry for you my brother my heart aches for you, just know I love you the same from a million miles away as I do right next to you,” he began. “I’m always here for you through everything as you have been for me. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family at this incredibly sad time I can’t begin to imagine what you are all going through. Rip Johanna you are forever in my thoughts.”

Cheryl Cole, who is expecting her first child with Payne and was a judge on U.K.’s The X Factor when One Direction formed, also sent Louis well wishes.

@Louis_Tomlinson my heart breaks for you. I am so sorry. My thoughts are with you and your loved ones at this incredibly tragic time. — Cheryl (@CherylOfficial) December 9, 2016





Simon Cowell, who ultimately signed the group, also tweeted to Louis.

Heartbroken for you @Louis_Tomlinson. Your mum Jay was an incredible person. Sending you all my love — Simon Cowell (@SimonCowell) December 9, 2016





Devoted 1D fans have continued to make #RIPJohannah a trending topic on Twitter.

Tomlinson, 24, has not posted anything since news broke; however, his last Instagram post from three weeks ago is of his mother.





Louis was very close with his mom and would often bring her as his date to events. While news of Johannah’s illness was kept private, the family confirmed she died Wednesday after being hospitalized since May.

“Earlier this year Johannah was diagnosed with a very aggressive form of leukemia that required immediate and continuous treatment,” the statement read. “We respectfully request that the family are given time and space to grieve in private.”

Louis will reportedly go through with his previously scheduled appearance on The X Factor on Saturday as his mom’s final wish.

Johannah is survived by her husband, Dan, and seven children — Louis; Lottie, 18; Félicité, 16; 12-year-old twins Daisy and Phoebe; and 2-year-old twins Ernest and Doris. She was also grandmother to Louis’s 10-month-old son, Freddie.