John Glenn, Astronaut and Senator, to Lie in State in Ohio
John Glenn, Astronaut and Senator, to Lie in State in Ohio
Shares                 John Glenn will lie in state in Ohio's capitol building before a celebration of his life of military and government service and two history-making voyages into space. The public viewing at the Ohio Statehouse and a memorial service at Ohio State University's Mershon Auditorium are planned for late next week. The dates and times were being worked out Friday, said Hank Wilson, of the John Glenn College of Public Affairs. Statehouse officials meet Monday to authorize the public viewing. Glenn, who died Thursday at age 95, was the first American to orbit the Earth, in 1962, and was the oldest man in space, at age 77 in 1998. A U.S. Marine and combat pilot, he also served as a Democratic U.S. senator, representing Ohio, for more than two decades. Democratic President Barack Obama on Friday ordered flags at federal buildings and on ships around the world flown at half-staff until sunset on the day of Glenn's internment. Glenn is to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery near Washington, D.C. Tributes from the nation's leaders and others continued Friday. "Throughout his life, Senator John Glenn embodied the right stuff," Defense Secretary Ash Carter said in a statement. "Our military in particular benefited from his courage and dedication. ... But just as important as what John Glenn accomplished is how he accomplished it: with a combination of fierce determination and profound humility, and always with integrity." Glenn was a fighter pilot in World War II and Korea and served on the Senate Armed Services Committee, among other Washington service. In his eastern Ohio hometown of New Concord, the John and Annie Glenn Museum, usually available this time of year only for special tours and events, opened Friday with free admission. Char Lyn Grujoski, of Connersville, Indiana, stopped in after spotting a roadside sign for the museum while driving home from Pittsburgh and listening to a radio report on Glenn. The museum is in the astronaut's converted boyhood home. Grujoski and her daughter left impressed. "He was a true American hero, someone who loved his country and served it," she said. Glenn was known for his humility, said Hal Burlingame, who grew up in New Concord and was friends with Glenn for half a century. "John Glenn that you see is the real John Glenn," Burlingame said. "He would be the same John Glenn if he happened to be sitting here today talking with us. He never took himself too seriously." Glenn was born July 18, 1921, in Cambridge and grew up in nearby New Concord. He wed his childhood sweetheart, Anna Margaret Castor, in 1943. The couple spent their later years between Washington and Columbus. He and his wife served as trustees at their alma mater, Muskingum College, and he promoted his namesake School of Public Affairs at Ohio State, which houses his private papers and photographs. His long political career, which included a failed 1984 run for the Democratic presidential nomination , enabled him to return to space in the shuttle Discovery in 1998, 36 years after going into orbit in Friendship 7 as part of Mercury, the first U.S. manned spaceflight program. He turned his Discovery mission into an educational moment about aging. Schools, a space center and the Columbus airport are named after him. "For generations, Americans cheered John Glenn as he soared into the heavens," former House Speaker John Boehner , a Republican and fellow Ohioan, said in a statement. "Now he has taken his place there for eternity, a well-earned reward for an American life well and heroically lived." ——— Sewell reported from Cincinnati. Associated Press writers Mike Householder in New Concord and Mark Gillispie in Cleveland and AP Science Writer Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed to this story. ——— This story has been corrected to show the name of the institution is John Glenn College of Public Affairs, not John Glenn School of Public Affairs, and the woman's surname is Grujoski, not Grujoksi. Shares                  John Glenn, Astronaut and Senator, to Lie in State in Ohio   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night   2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizza Parlor Expected in Court   Lufthansa Flight Diverted to NY After Threat: Officials   Google, Cuba Sign Deal Allowing Faster Access to Company's Data   Propane Gas Leak Being Considered in NY Home Explosion   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Suspect in Egypt Chapel Bombing Had 2014 Run-in With Police   Pro-Kurd Party Members Arrested in Wake of Istanbul Bombings   6 Months Later, 49 Killed at Pulse Are Remembered in Orlando   David Beckham Is 'Very Proud' to Be UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador   Boy Dies in Santa's Arms After Receiving Early Christmas Present   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Timeline of Russia's Hacking Into US Political Groups Before Election   Russia: Hacking Allegations Have 'Nothing to Do With Reality'   Inside Rex Tillerson's Business Dealings in Russia   Everything You Need to Know About Trump's Expected Pick for Deputy Secretary of State   Everything You Need to Know About Trump's Pick to Head Homeland Security   2 Univ. of Louisville Football Players Shot at Heisman Celebration   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now

John Glenn will lie in state in Ohio's capitol building before a celebration of his life of military and government service and two history-making voyages into space.

The public viewing at the Ohio Statehouse and a memorial service at Ohio State University's Mershon Auditorium are planned for late next week. The dates and times were being worked out Friday, said Hank Wilson, of the John Glenn College of Public Affairs. Statehouse officials meet Monday to authorize the public viewing.

Glenn, who died Thursday at age 95, was the first American to orbit the Earth, in 1962, and was the oldest man in space, at age 77 in 1998. A U.S. Marine and combat pilot, he also served as a Democratic U.S. senator, representing Ohio, for more than two decades.

Democratic President Barack Obama on Friday ordered flags at federal buildings and on ships around the world flown at half-staff until sunset on the day of Glenn's internment. Glenn is to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery near Washington, D.C.

Tributes from the nation's leaders and others continued Friday.

"Throughout his life, Senator John Glenn embodied the right stuff," Defense Secretary Ash Carter said in a statement. "Our military in particular benefited from his courage and dedication. ... But just as important as what John Glenn accomplished is how he accomplished it: with a combination of fierce determination and profound humility, and always with integrity."

Glenn was a fighter pilot in World War II and Korea and served on the Senate Armed Services Committee, among other Washington service.

In his eastern Ohio hometown of New Concord, the John and Annie Glenn Museum, usually available this time of year only for special tours and events, opened Friday with free admission.

Char Lyn Grujoski, of Connersville, Indiana, stopped in after spotting a roadside sign for the museum while driving home from Pittsburgh and listening to a radio report on Glenn. The museum is in the astronaut's converted boyhood home. Grujoski and her daughter left impressed.

"He was a true American hero, someone who loved his country and served it," she said.

Glenn was known for his humility, said Hal Burlingame, who grew up in New Concord and was friends with Glenn for half a century.

"John Glenn that you see is the real John Glenn," Burlingame said. "He would be the same John Glenn if he happened to be sitting here today talking with us. He never took himself too seriously."

Glenn was born July 18, 1921, in Cambridge and grew up in nearby New Concord. He wed his childhood sweetheart, Anna Margaret Castor, in 1943. The couple spent their later years between Washington and Columbus.

He and his wife served as trustees at their alma mater, Muskingum College, and he promoted his namesake School of Public Affairs at Ohio State, which houses his private papers and photographs.

His long political career, which included a failed 1984 run for the Democratic presidential nomination, enabled him to return to space in the shuttle Discovery in 1998, 36 years after going into orbit in Friendship 7 as part of Mercury, the first U.S. manned spaceflight program. He turned his Discovery mission into an educational moment about aging.

Schools, a space center and the Columbus airport are named after him.

"For generations, Americans cheered John Glenn as he soared into the heavens," former House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican and fellow Ohioan, said in a statement. "Now he has taken his place there for eternity, a well-earned reward for an American life well and heroically lived."

———

Sewell reported from Cincinnati. Associated Press writers Mike Householder in New Concord and Mark Gillispie in Cleveland and AP Science Writer Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed to this story.

———

This story has been corrected to show the name of the institution is John Glenn College of Public Affairs, not John Glenn School of Public Affairs, and the woman's surname is Grujoski, not Grujoksi.