Mark Cuban says Russell Westbrook still won't be superstar unless Thunder win
Cuban still not sold on Westbrook as 'superstar'
Cuban still not sold on Westbrook as 'superstar' Is the NBA's most outspoken player holding back? Jay Z takes shot at Jackson over use of 'posse' LeBron wearing safety pin on SI award cover Lakers' Walton ejected after shouting at referees Nets' Lin back vs. Rockets after 6 weeks out John Legend gets All-Star Game halftime gig Sources: Grizzlies' Ennis expected back next week Fantasy hoops: Is Nikola Jokic the next Paul Millsap? What's the holdup in new NBA deal? Butler, Gibson gearing up for emotional reunion with Thibs Debating the greatest sneakers of all time Wesley Matthews delivers on his promise to be better after injury Metta World Peace: Luke Walton is 'going to be in the Hall of Fame' Knicks approaching top-10 status in NBA Power Rankings? Tim Duncan, Pau Gasol play one-on-one at Spurs practice Even without a triple-double, Westbrook's winning plays make the difference Marcus Smart on Celtics' late-game struggles: 'It's gotta stop' Wolf blitzers: How Warriors beat schedule and stormed to win Cavs' 3-point shooting contagious? LeBron launches 'em, too Phil Jackson's media missteps obscure real New York story Chauncey Billups loves Russell Westbrook's game, but says he sometimes makes questionable decisions and takes errant shots. (1:33) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Joined ESPNDallas.com in September 2009 Covers the Dallas Cowboys and Dallas Mavericks Appears regularly on ESPN Dallas 103.3 FM Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment DALLAS -- It will take more than a quarter-season of historic production for Mark Cuban to admit that Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook has proved him wrong. Cuban, the outspoken Dallas Mavericks owner who declared during last season's playoffs that Westbrook wasn't a superstar , said he still isn't convinced even though Westbrook is on pace to be the first player to average a triple-double since Oscar Robertson in 1962-63. "He's putting up superstar numbers. That's for damn sure," Cuban said of Westbrook as the Thunder took on the Houston Rockets on Friday night. "I'm not taking anything away from what he's been able to accomplish, but I'm not going to change my definition. He's putting up superstar numbers. You can't deny that." Westbrook had 27 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists in Friday's 102-99 loss. It was his seventh consecutive triple-double , the longest streak since Michael Jordan had seven straight in 1989, and his season averages now sit at 30.9 points, 10.8 rebounds and 11.3 assists per game. Cuban said in April, about an hour before Westbrook's 36-point, 12-rebound, nine-assist performance in Game 5 of the first round to eliminate the Mavs, that a true superstar can carry a mediocre roster to 50 wins and a postseason series win. He noted that the Thunder failed to make the playoffs in 2014-15, when Kevin Durant missed most of the season because of a foot injury. Led by Westbrook, who has been first- or second-team All-NBA five times and is widely considered an MVP front-runner, the Thunder are 14-9 after Friday's loss and on a 50-win pace for the season. Oklahoma City will have to keep up that pace and perhaps pull off what would be considered a first-round upset for Cuban to recognize Westbrook as a superstar. "That's no disrespect to Russell," Cuban said. "He's been a beast. Few have done what he's done, but I'll stick by my definition. I'm not saying that he's not going to prove me wrong and that he [won't be] a superstar by the end of the year. That's fine, but I'll stick by my definition." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

DALLAS -- It will take more than a quarter-season of historic production for Mark Cuban to admit that Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook has proved him wrong.

Cuban, the outspoken Dallas Mavericks owner who declared during last season's playoffs that Westbrook wasn't a superstar, said he still isn't convinced even though Westbrook is on pace to be the first player to average a triple-double since Oscar Robertson in 1962-63.

"He's putting up superstar numbers. That's for damn sure," Cuban said of Westbrook as the Thunder took on the Houston Rockets on Friday night. "I'm not taking anything away from what he's been able to accomplish, but I'm not going to change my definition. He's putting up superstar numbers. You can't deny that."

Westbrook had 27 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists in Friday's 102-99 loss. It was his seventh consecutive triple-double, the longest streak since Michael Jordan had seven straight in 1989, and his season averages now sit at 30.9 points, 10.8 rebounds and 11.3 assists per game.

Mark Cuban said he'll stick by his definition of superstar but that Russell Westbrook could prove his assessment wrong by the end of the season. Jerome Miron/USA TODAY Sports

Cuban said in April, about an hour before Westbrook's 36-point, 12-rebound, nine-assist performance in Game 5 of the first round to eliminate the Mavs, that a true superstar can carry a mediocre roster to 50 wins and a postseason series win. He noted that the Thunder failed to make the playoffs in 2014-15, when Kevin Durant missed most of the season because of a foot injury.

Led by Westbrook, who has been first- or second-team All-NBA five times and is widely considered an MVP front-runner, the Thunder are 14-9 after Friday's loss and on a 50-win pace for the season. Oklahoma City will have to keep up that pace and perhaps pull off what would be considered a first-round upset for Cuban to recognize Westbrook as a superstar.

"That's no disrespect to Russell," Cuban said. "He's been a beast. Few have done what he's done, but I'll stick by my definition. I'm not saying that he's not going to prove me wrong and that he [won't be] a superstar by the end of the year. That's fine, but I'll stick by my definition."

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.