Om Swami Is The Most Outrageous Person On Bigg Boss 10 And Here's Why He Needs To Be Eliminated
Om Swami Is The Most Outrageous Person On Bigg Boss 10 And Here's Why He Needs To Be Eliminated
Om Swami Is The Most Outrageous Person On Bigg Boss 10 And Here's Why He Needs To Be Eliminated From commenting on Rohan Mehra's upbringing to making cheap and derogatory remarks about the female contestants' clothes, Swamiji has crossed several levels of being disgusting on . It won't be an understatement to say that he is the most disgusting contestant on the show right now. Recently, he did something so outrageous on the show that it left contestant Bani J furious. Let's recall the instances that prove he really doesn't deserve to be on the show. 1. When he made nasty comments on Bani's mother . @bani_j completely loses her cool after #OmSwami makes a shocking statement! Tune in tonight at 10:20PM! #BB10  https://t.co/jR8BnGaCwy This, even when the housemates tried their best to pacify him. Eventually, they decide to boycott him. He takes a leak in the mug in the kitchen area. Yes, that happened on national TV! While Sunny was leaving the house, the housemates saw Swami Om hugging her and touching her inappropriately. The contestants snapped at Swamiji and told him to watch his behavior. When Swamiji made such derogatory comments on women in the house that Salman had to scold him Saman had to intervene and scold Swamiji. He said, very sternly, “Aap to hamaari auraton ko bhi nahi chhoroge! Ye jo Monalisa ke baare mei aapne kaha hai, ye itni chhoti-chhoti skirt pehenna.. kisi ke charitra ke baare mei bolna.. ladkiyon ke oopar comment karna.. Omji!"

From commenting on Rohan Mehra's upbringing to making cheap and derogatory remarks about the female contestants' clothes, Swamiji has crossed several levels of being disgusting on Bigg Boss. It won't be an understatement to say that he is the most disgusting contestant on the show right now. Recently, he did something so outrageous on the show that it left contestant Bani J furious. Let's recall the instances that prove he really doesn't deserve to be on the show.



1. When he made nasty comments on Bani's mother

.@bani_j completely loses her cool after #OmSwami makes a shocking statement! Tune in tonight at 10:20PM! #BB10 https://t.co/jR8BnGaCwy — Bigg Boss (@BiggBoss) December 9, 2016

During a task, Swamiji asked Bani to back off else, he said, ‘tumhari maa mar jaayegi’. Bani lost her cool (completely fair) and threatened to quit the show.

2. When he didn't just chant “Rohan murdabad” but kept commenting on his upbringing as well

Colors

This, even when the housemates tried their best to pacify him. Eventually, they decide to boycott him.

3. When Swamiji urinated in a mug. Yes, that happened!

Colors

He takes a leak in the mug in the kitchen area. Yes, that happened on national TV!

4. When Swamiji said goodbye to Sunny Leone as a guest in the house by touching her inappropriately

While Sunny was leaving the house, the housemates saw Swami Om hugging her and touching her inappropriately. The contestants snapped at Swamiji and told him to watch his behavior.

5. When Swamiji made such derogatory comments on women in the house that Salman had to scold him

Colors

Saman had to intervene and scold Swamiji. He said, very sternly, “Aap to hamaari auraton ko bhi nahi chhoroge! Ye jo Monalisa ke baare mei aapne kaha hai, ye itni chhoti-chhoti skirt pehenna.. kisi ke charitra ke baare mei bolna.. ladkiyon ke oopar comment karna.. Omji!"