Kellyanne Conway: I'm Getting Death Threats
Kellyanne Conway: I'm Getting Death Threats
Shares                Donald Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway has blasted the president-elect's critics -- namely Hillary Clinton supporters -- for fueling a barrage of death threats against her. "Anytime I respond, anytime I defend myself against these ... allegations that are now leading to death threats ... I'm seen as ungracious," Conway said during an interview Thursday on MSNBC with Chris Matthews, referring, in part, to claims that the Trump campaign gave a platform to white nationalists. "Why are we sore winners? I'm not a sore winner. I'm a winner. My guy is a winner. He's the next president of the United States."  . @KellyannePolls talks to @HardballChris about receiving death threats and the need to end incendiary rhetoric https://t.co/wF6jv1b8nl  Conway also slammed Jen Palmieri, who was communications director for Clinton's presidential campaign , for penning an op-ed in The Washington Post on Thursday in which she claimed the Trump campaign catered to white supremacists. Palmieri wrote, "I don’t know whether the Trump campaign needed to give a platform to white supremacists to win. But the campaign clearly did, and it had the effect of empowering the white-nationalist movement." The Washington Post also ran a piece written by editorial board member Jonathan Capeheart titled, "Yes, Kellyanne Conway, you did provide a platform for white supremacy." When asked by MSNBC's Matthews if the back-and-forth accusations are "going to end," Conway cited the Post pieces, as well as the death threats. "Ask Jen Palmieri that because she's writing an op-ed, somebody else in The Washington Post today has a scathing headline about me which is not true but did lead to some death threats today and that'll be on their doorstep." Conway added, "The fact is that [the Trump] campaign ran a race where we reached into those working class voters who felt they were the forgotten man or forgotten woman, they were the base of our support," she said. "All [the Hillary Clinton campaign] needed to do was have a compelling, sticky, aspirational message for the American people....all I heard was 'We're not Donald Trump. That's not a message." Shares                  Kellyanne Conway: I'm Getting Death Threats   How a Single Senate Republican Could Tank Tillerson's Nomination   Man Who Says Relatives Were Killed by US Drone Strike Heads to Federal Court   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Rex Tillerson: What to Know About Trump's Pick for Secretary of State   Kanye West Meets With Donald Trump in New York   The Note: What You Need To Know About Trump’s Tillerson Pick   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Trump Pushing Back Announcement About His Businesses   Romney Out of Race to Be Trump's Secretary of State   Electors Call for Intelligence Briefing on Russian Hacking Allegations   Trump Likely to Back Mitt Romney's Niece for RNC Chair   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   LeBron James 'Humbled' by SI Sportsperson of the Year Award   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms

Donald Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway has blasted the president-elect's critics -- namely Hillary Clinton supporters -- for fueling a barrage of death threats against her.

"Anytime I respond, anytime I defend myself against these ... allegations that are now leading to death threats ... I'm seen as ungracious," Conway said during an interview Thursday on MSNBC with Chris Matthews, referring, in part, to claims that the Trump campaign gave a platform to white nationalists. "Why are we sore winners? I'm not a sore winner. I'm a winner. My guy is a winner. He's the next president of the United States."

.@KellyannePolls talks to @HardballChris about receiving death threats and the need to end incendiary rhetoric https://t.co/wF6jv1b8nl — Hardball (@hardball) December 9, 2016

Conway also slammed Jen Palmieri, who was communications director for Clinton's presidential campaign, for penning an op-ed in The Washington Post on Thursday in which she claimed the Trump campaign catered to white supremacists.

Palmieri wrote, "I don’t know whether the Trump campaign needed to give a platform to white supremacists to win. But the campaign clearly did, and it had the effect of empowering the white-nationalist movement."

The Washington Post also ran a piece written by editorial board member Jonathan Capeheart titled, "Yes, Kellyanne Conway, you did provide a platform for white supremacy."

When asked by MSNBC's Matthews if the back-and-forth accusations are "going to end," Conway cited the Post pieces, as well as the death threats.

"Ask Jen Palmieri that because she's writing an op-ed, somebody else in The Washington Post today has a scathing headline about me which is not true but did lead to some death threats today and that'll be on their doorstep."

Conway added, "The fact is that [the Trump] campaign ran a race where we reached into those working class voters who felt they were the forgotten man or forgotten woman, they were the base of our support," she said. "All [the Hillary Clinton campaign] needed to do was have a compelling, sticky, aspirational message for the American people....all I heard was 'We're not Donald Trump. That's not a message."