BACK STORY

TRUMP VICTORY PROVIDES AN EXTRAORDINARY END TO NORTH AMERICA POSTING  Election Day, November 8, 2016  – New York City. 6:30AM wake up and switch on – monitoring the three US TV
news channels and about a dozen news websites, as well as the webpages of the candidates
and of course Twitter. Breakfast was a strong decent coffee at a local Aussie
café, then a meeting with cameraman Nick Castellaro and producer Brooke Wylie. Several blocks away from our hotel, I watched Donald Trump
vote at a local school amid shouts of abuse in English and Spanish, with some
supporters trying to get a word in edgeways. 1PM - I filed the first of two radio news stories. We then gathered our camera gear and travelled to Trump
election day HQ. 2PM - first TV cross of the day to News Breakfast, a radio cross
into the AM program as well as News Radio. 3PM onwards – what followed was almost a cross on the hour
every hour in the street outside the venue and, later as the result got closer,
we set up in a hallway. Brooke, Nick and I monitored the results state-by-state as
they came in and then nabbed whoever we could in between filing or cross deadlines,
including interviewing Donald Trump friend and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani
and the immediate past Chairman of the Republican Party, Michael Steele. We
also interviewed Trump strategist Sean Spicer, friend and New York Mayoral
candidate Bo Dietl and former John McCain and George W. Bush strategist Mark
McKinnon (easily recognisable because of his cowboy hat). The building shook for the first time when North Carolina
was called for Mr. Trump. It shook again to the applause of supporters for the Florida
result. I ate a sandwich somewhere in there and kept drinking plenty of water –
I even managed another shave! Just before 1AM I wrote an online piece about Mr. Trump’s
supporters which began - “Joyous. Raucous.
Vindicated.”  I filed another two
radio news packages – later there were more, then Radio National cross and a News
Radio cross. By then I had set up office in the hallway on a chair. Just after 2:30AM, Donald Trump came out to accept victory
just before the main 7PM ABC News bulletins on the east coast of Australia. The
result was unexpected, the implications were extraordinary. I did numerous live
crosses into the 7PM bulletins and  News
24 for some hours after – including at one point going to air live while being
screamed by some loon in the street. I hope my analysis made sense of it all
and also captured the moment. We were stood down just before 7AM and we got back to our
hotel and into bed by 8.30AM. At  11.30AM,
I woke up in time to hear Hillary Clinton concede and file a package for the AM
program. I had breakfast at 3PM and was out on the streets covering protestors
chanting “Not My President!” until 10PM, filing for News 24, Midday News, 7PM
bulletins and The World Today on radio. Dinner was Mexican tacos while walking
back to the hotel. I’m exhausted just reading it all. That was one very long
day. As an ABC correspondent, the days are long and the events
historic. The past 18 months have been dominated by ‘The Donald’. Access
has been amazing. During the 2016 campaign, I spoke to half the Republican
Presidential field, including Mr. Trump twice. Polite persistence has worked for me many times, especially
up on Capitol Hill where it takes US politicians a few seconds to process my
accent. Not John
Kasich though, who wasn’t happy with my questioning during a campaign diner
stop in Philadelphia. Our exchange got a mention in an article in The New
York Times: – The
New York Times Reporting from the dairy sheds of Wisconsin with Trump
supporters, to the streets of Baltimore during the riots and the floor of the
New York Stock Exchange during another crash, I’ve experienced a range of
America’s emotions. I’ve even eaten Bison with members of the Chocktaw Nation,
served in an earthen bowl with a shell for a spoon, and Iowan “man candy” -
deep fried pork coated in icing sugar. Americans were genuinely surprised when Australia reacted
with horror to the shooting of baseballer Chris Lane in Oklahoma. CNN even asked
me on to explain why. Here, it has become all too common and, like any US
correspondent, I’ve covered far too many shootings – mass and individual –
including outside my own home in downtown DC. But I will never forget the love of the families of Chris
Lane and his girlfriend Sarah Harper in Oklahoma, as well as meeting a survivor
of the Orlando massacre, Jeff Rodriguez, who is now learning to walk again –
both stories have affected me tremendously. I’ve written many obituaries in my time here - Prince,
Spock, Robin Williams and Maya Angelou. I have also missed the deaths of two
loved ones. I called my mother who was at my aunt’s funeral while I myself was
covering a funeral for a victim of the Orlando massacre – it was surreal and
tough. But there have been uplifting moments as well – sharing the
50 anniversary of Martin Luther King’s ‘I have a dream speech’ with my family - interviewing,
while on a school excursion with my daughter, the only remaining member of the ‘big
six’ who spoke alongside MLK that day - John Lewis . I have met the
childhood friends of Muhammad Ali as they celebrated his life in Louisville,
Kentucky, and celebrated Australian business and sporting success as well - Jarryd
Hayne, Matthew Dellavedova, Ben Simmons and Thon Maker. Then there’s the unreal
– I interviewed Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg and Peter Greste all within the
space of a few hours one day in New York. It’s been a momentous time. In between, I’ve watched my children make snow fairies on
the white winter lawns of Canada’s Parliament and hiked among the amazing
hoodoos of Utah and canyons of Arizona. On Wednesday nights, I’ve played
football with my school dad mates in conditions ranging from high heat and
humidity to thick snow flurries. Every Christmas, I’ve helped sell trees for my kids’ school
and there’s been the fun of dressing up for Halloween every year. There have been challenges personal and professional and
sometimes they’ve mixed. Donald Trump began his campaign by saying Mexicans are
“bringing drugs, bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good
people.” I hope he meant my wife, is one of those “good people”. She’s a
Mexican and an Australian. My friends are largely drawn from a public school,
where half the day children are taught in Spanish and the other half in English.
What does Mr. Trump think of them I wonder? On election night, as I interviewed
Donald Trump’s supporters who were revelling in his victory, I paused to
reflect on what sort of America I am leaving.

(Michael Vincent reporting from outside the Trump HQ on election night)

Michael Vincent is heading home after an eventful three-and-a-half years as one of the ABC’s North America correspondents. Here, Michael reflects on the stories he’s covered during his posting and a marathon 41 hour assignment, reporting virtually non-stop on the stunning election of Donald Trump as President.



By Michael Vincent

Election Day, November 8, 2016 – New York City.

6:30AM wake up and switch on – monitoring the three US TV news channels and about a dozen news websites, as well as the webpages of the candidates and of course Twitter. Breakfast was a strong decent coffee at a local Aussie café, then a meeting with cameraman Nick Castellaro and producer Brooke Wylie.

(Producer Brooke Wylie at the media spot outside Trump HQ on election night)

Several blocks away from our hotel, I watched Donald Trump vote at a local school amid shouts of abuse in English and Spanish, with some supporters trying to get a word in edgeways.

1PM - I filed the first of two radio news stories. We then gathered our camera gear and travelled to Trump election day HQ.

2PM - first TV cross of the day to News Breakfast, a radio cross into the AM program as well as News Radio.

3PM onwards – what followed was almost a cross on the hour every hour in the street outside the venue and, later as the result got closer, we set up in a hallway.

(Michael Vincent interviewing Rudy Giuliani on election night)

Brooke, Nick and I monitored the results state-by-state as they came in and then nabbed whoever we could in between filing or cross deadlines, including interviewing Donald Trump friend and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and the immediate past Chairman of the Republican Party, Michael Steele. We also interviewed Trump strategist Sean Spicer, friend and New York Mayoral candidate Bo Dietl and former John McCain and George W. Bush strategist Mark McKinnon (easily recognisable because of his cowboy hat).

(Interviewing strategist Mark McKinnon)

The building shook for the first time when North Carolina was called for Mr. Trump. It shook again to the applause of supporters for the Florida result. I ate a sandwich somewhere in there and kept drinking plenty of water – I even managed another shave!

(Michael Vincent reporting live from Trump election night HQ)

Just before 1AM I wrote an online piece about Mr. Trump’s supporters which began - “Joyous. Raucous. Vindicated.” I filed another two radio news packages – later there were more, then Radio National cross and a News Radio cross. By then I had set up office in the hallway on a chair.

(Hallway ‘office’ at Trump election HQ)

Just after 2:30AM, Donald Trump came out to accept victory just before the main 7PM ABC News bulletins on the east coast of Australia. The result was unexpected, the implications were extraordinary. I did numerous live crosses into the 7PM bulletins and News 24 for some hours after – including at one point going to air live while being screamed by some loon in the street. I hope my analysis made sense of it all and also captured the moment.

(A live cross interupted!)

We were stood down just before 7AM and we got back to our hotel and into bed by 8.30AM. At 11.30AM, I woke up in time to hear Hillary Clinton concede and file a package for the AM program.

I had breakfast at 3PM and was out on the streets covering protestors chanting “Not My President!” until 10PM, filing for News 24, Midday News, 7PM bulletins and The World Today on radio. Dinner was Mexican tacos while walking back to the hotel.

I’m exhausted just reading it all. That was one very long day.

(Michael Vincent - far left - and camera operator Brad Fulton in a media scrum around Donald Trump during the campaign)

As an ABC correspondent, the days are long and the events historic. The past 18 months have been dominated by ‘The Donald’. Access has been amazing. During the 2016 campaign, I spoke to half the Republican Presidential field, including Mr. Trump twice.

(Michael Vincent questioning Donald Trump)

Polite persistence has worked for me many times, especially up on Capitol Hill where it takes US politicians a few seconds to process my accent. Not John Kasich though, who wasn’t happy with my questioning during a campaign diner stop in Philadelphia. Our exchange got a mention in an article in The New York Times:

“Mr. Kasich, in Pennsylvania, grew quickly agitated at the suggestion that his deal with Mr. Cruz reflected desperation. “Me? No, I’m not desperate — are you?” he asked a reporter. “Are you desperate?” – The New York Times

(Michael Vincent - far left - in a media pack interviewing John Kasich)

Reporting from the dairy sheds of Wisconsin with Trump supporters, to the streets of Baltimore during the riots and the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during another crash, I’ve experienced a range of America’s emotions.

(Reporting from Baltimore in 2015)

I’ve even eaten Bison with members of the Chocktaw Nation, served in an earthen bowl with a shell for a spoon, and Iowan “man candy” - deep fried pork coated in icing sugar.

(Bison for dinner!)

Americans were genuinely surprised when Australia reacted with horror to the shooting of baseballer Chris Lane in Oklahoma. CNN even asked me on to explain why. Here, it has become all too common and, like any US correspondent, I’ve covered far too many shootings – mass and individual – including outside my own home in downtown DC.

(Michael Vincent being interviewed on CNN about the Australian reaction to the death of baseballer Chris Lane)

But I will never forget the love of the families of Chris Lane and his girlfriend Sarah Harper in Oklahoma, as well as meeting a survivor of the Orlando massacre, Jeff Rodriguez, who is now learning to walk again – both stories have affected me tremendously.

(Reporting from outside the White House with camera operator Rob Hill)

I’ve written many obituaries in my time here - Prince, Spock, Robin Williams and Maya Angelou. I have also missed the deaths of two loved ones. I called my mother who was at my aunt’s funeral while I myself was covering a funeral for a victim of the Orlando massacre – it was surreal and tough.

(Correspondents Zoe Daniel and Michael Vincent with producer Roscoe Whalan filing on the Orlando massacre)

But there have been uplifting moments as well – sharing the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King’s ‘I have a dream speech’ with my family - interviewing, while on a school excursion with my daughter, the only remaining member of the ‘big six’ who spoke alongside MLK that day - John Lewis.

(Michael Vincent recording John Lewis speaking to school children, including Michael’s daughter, on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King’s ‘I have a dream’ speech)

I have met the childhood friends of Muhammad Ali as they celebrated his life in Louisville, Kentucky, and celebrated Australian business and sporting success as well - Jarryd Hayne, Matthew Dellavedova, Ben Simmons and Thon Maker. Then there’s the unreal – I interviewed Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg and Peter Greste all within the space of a few hours one day in New York.

(At the Republican convention with fellow correspondent Zoe Daniel, camera operator Brad Fulton and producer Roscoe Whalan)

It’s been a momentous time.

In between, I’ve watched my children make snow fairies on the white winter lawns of Canada’s Parliament and hiked among the amazing hoodoos of Utah and canyons of Arizona.

(Antelope canyon in Arizona - Photo: Michael Vincent)

On Wednesday nights, I’ve played football with my school dad mates in conditions ranging from high heat and humidity to thick snow flurries.

(A winter whiteout on the soccer field- spot the ball! - Photo: Michael Vincent)

Every Christmas, I’ve helped sell trees for my kids’ school and there’s been the fun of dressing up for Halloween every year.

(The correspondent cutting Christmas trees for sale at his children’s school)

There have been challenges personal and professional and sometimes they’ve mixed. Donald Trump began his campaign by saying Mexicans are “bringing drugs, bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.” I hope he meant my wife, is one of those “good people”. She’s a Mexican and an Australian. My friends are largely drawn from a public school, where half the day children are taught in Spanish and the other half in English. What does Mr. Trump think of them I wonder? On election night, as I interviewed Donald Trump’s supporters who were revelling in his victory, I paused to reflect on what sort of America I am leaving.

(Michael Vincent and family at Bryce canyon, Utah)

Click here to return to the Back Story home page or catch up on stories from the past four years on our archive page.