MP CM Attends Wedding Of Late Bhopal Jail Employee's Daughter, Gifts Her A Job Appointment Letter
MP CM Attends Wedding Of Late Bhopal Jail Employee's Daughter, Gifts Her A Job Offer Letter
MP CM Attends Wedding Of Late Bhopal Jail Employee's Daughter, Gifts Her A Job Appointment Letter A job appointment letter could be one of the most memorable of gifts. One such was given by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to a late Bhopal jail employee’s daughter on her wedding day. It was the wedding of Ramashankar Yadav’s youngest daughter. Ramashankar Yadav was killed by the attack of SIMI terrorists inside Bhopal jail. On 29 October, around eight SIMI terrorists escaped from the jail. As Ramashankar Yadav was the guard on duty, the terrorists killed him with a knife. Yadav’s family was all set to prepare for his daughter’s wedding, however when they heard about his demise, they were engulfed in the sad news. He was just 57 years old. Bhopal: MP CM attends wedding ceremony of daughter of Ramashankar Yadav,who was killed in Bhopal jailbreak, gifts her job appointment letter pic.twitter.com/K8hoLkXVxu Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saw to it that he personally attended Ramashankar's daughter’s wedding. He then surprised everyone in the marriage hall by giving her an envelope which was an offer letter for a government C group job.

A job appointment letter could be one of the most memorable of gifts. One such was given by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to a late Bhopal jail employee’s daughter on her wedding day.

Image Credit: ANI

It was the wedding of Ramashankar Yadav’s youngest daughter. Ramashankar Yadav was killed by the attack of SIMI terrorists inside Bhopal jail. On 29 October, around eight SIMI terrorists escaped from the jail. As Ramashankar Yadav was the guard on duty, the terrorists killed him with a knife. Yadav’s family was all set to prepare for his daughter’s wedding, however when they heard about his demise, they were engulfed in the sad news. He was just 57 years old.

Bhopal: MP CM attends wedding ceremony of daughter of Ramashankar Yadav,who was killed in Bhopal jailbreak, gifts her job appointment letter pic.twitter.com/K8hoLkXVxu — ANI (@ANI_news) December 9, 2016

Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saw to it that he personally attended Ramashankar's daughter’s wedding. He then surprised everyone in the marriage hall by giving her an envelope which was an offer letter for a government C group job.