Donald Trump raises 'conspiracy theory' after CIA concludes Russia intervened in election to help him win
Donald Trump raises 'conspiracy theory' after CIA concludes Russia intervened in election to help him win
ith the CIA concluding that Russia intervened in order to help him win the White House, Donald Trump has claimed that if he lost the election and made similar accusations they would be dismissed as a "conspiracy theory". Calls for a Congressional investigation into Russian hacking during the election, now joined by leading Republican senators, have been met with anger by the president-elect and his advisers. Mr Trump denies that the CIA could know it was Russia who hacked the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, despite the consensus among intelligence officials that the Kremlin was responsible. Can you imagine if the election results were the opposite and WE tried to play the Russia/CIA card. It would be called conspiracy theory! ccording to the Washington Post the CIA has concluded in a secret assessment presented to senators last week that Russia aimed specifically to help Mr Trump win the presidency. Unless you catch "hackers" in the act, it is very hard to determine who was doing the hacking. Why wasn't this brought up before election? ntelligence agencies identified "known actors" connected to the Russian government who provided WikiLeaks with thousands of hacked emails, anonymous US officials told the Post. Those emails were steadily leaked out via WikiLeaks in the months before the election, damaging Mrs Clinton's White House run. The Russians' aim was to help Donald Trump win and not just undermine the US electoral process, the paper reported. "It is the assessment of the intelligence community that Russia’s goal here was to favor one candidate over the other, to help Trump get elected," said a senior US official briefed on on that closed-door meeting, the Post reported. “That’s the consensus view.” IA agents told the lawmakers it was "quite clear" that electing Mr Trump was Russia's goal, according to officials who spoke to the Post, citing growing evidence from multiple sources. However, some questions remain unanswered and the CIA's assessment fell short of a formal US assessment produced by all 17 intelligence agencies, the newspaper said. For example, intelligence agents don't have proof that Russian officials directed the identified individuals to supply WikiLeaks with the hacked Democratic emails. ikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has denied links with Russia's government . Those individuals were "one step" removed from the Russian government, which is consistent with past practices by Moscow to use "middlemen" in sensitive intelligence operations to preserve plausible deniability, the report said. The assessment drew an extraordinary rebuke from the president-elect's camp. INBOX: Transition Statement On Claims Of Foreign Interference In U.S. Elections pic.twitter.com/5xSW6Bg77H "These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction," Mr Trump's transition team said, launching a broadside against the spy agency. "The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. It's now time to move on and 'Make America Great Again.'" eanwhile Jennifer Palmieri, Mrs Clinton's communications director, said on Twitter that the assessment was ""soul crushing". Soul crushing are the only words I have. Can barely stand to read the story. https://t.co/Me5wUBfQTa he Kremlin has rejected the hacking accusations . The revelation comes as the White announced that Barack Obama ordered intelligence officials to conduct a broad review of election-season cyberattacks, including the email hacks that rattled the presidential campaign. he review, led by intelligence agencies, will be a "deep dive" into a possible pattern of increased "malicious cyber activity" timed to the campaign season, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said . The review will look at the tactics, targets, key actors and the US government's response to the recent email hacks, as well as incidents reported in past elections, he said. The president ordered up the report earlier this week and asked that it be completed before he leaves office next month, Mr Schultz said. "The president wanted this done under his watch because he takes it very seriously," he said. "We are committed to ensuring the integrity of our elections." In the months leading up to the election, email accounts of Democratic Party officials and a top Hillary Clinton campaign aide were breached , emails leaked and embarrassing and private emails posted online. Many Democrats believe the hackings benefited the Republican's bid. Mr Trump has downplayed the possibility that Russia was involved. The new joke in town is that Russia leaked the disastrous DNC e-mails, which should never have been written (stupid), because Putin likes me r Schultz said the president sought the probe as a way of improving US defence against cyberattacks and was not intending to question the legitimacy of Trump's victory. "This is not an effort to challenge the outcome of the election," Schultz said. Mr Obama's move comes as Democratic lawmakers have been pushing Obama to declassify more information about Russia's role, fearing that Mr Trump, who has promised a warmer relationship with Moscow, may not prioritise the issue. iven Mr Trump's statements, "there is an added urgency to the need for a thorough review before President Obama leaves office next month," said representative Adam Schiff, senior Democrat on the House intelligence committee. If the administration doesn't respond "forcefully" to such actions, "we can expect to see a lot more of this in the near future," he said. The White House said it would make portions of the report public and would brief lawmakers and relevant state officials on the findings. t emphasised the report would not focus solely on Russian operations or hacks involving Mr Podesta and DNC accounts. Mr Schultz stressed officials would be reviewing incidents going back to the 2008 presidential campaign, when the campaigns of senator John McCain and Mr Obama were breached by hackers. Intelligence officials have said Mr Obama and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney were targets of Chinese cyberattacks four years later.

With the CIA concluding that Russia intervened in order to help him win the White House, Donald Trump has claimed that if he lost the election and made similar accusations they would be dismissed as a "conspiracy theory".

Calls for a Congressional investigation into Russian hacking during the election, now joined by leading Republican senators, have been met with anger by the president-elect and his advisers.

Mr Trump denies that the CIA could know it was Russia who hacked the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, despite the consensus among intelligence officials that the Kremlin was responsible.