French farmers strip off for Fred Goudon's VERY racy 2017 calendar
French farmers strip off for a VERY racy 2017 calendar


Rugby players, rowers and even polo players have stripped off in order to create their own tribute to the nearly nude calendar.

However, the latest rather rugged offering might just be the sauciest yet as French farmers strip of for a black and white photo shoot.

Shot by photographer Fred Goudon the calendar sees the young male farmers go about their day - only sans vêtements.

Scroll down for video

French farmers from the regions of Normandie, Provence, Champagne and Picardie have stripped off for a 2017 calendar

In one photo smallholder lets down their hair and loses their shirt as they pose with their noble steed.

Another picture sure to send hearts aflutter sees a topless agriculturalist stroll through a field of grain carrying an adorable piglet under his arm.

One photo sees a dairy farmer pause from his milking duties in order to pose with his cattle for a picture.

The smallholders are captured going about their days work but the only difference is they are sans vêtements

In this photograph a farmer lets down their hair and loses their shirt as they pose with their noble steed

The stunning pictures were shot by Goudon across the areas of Normandie, Provence, Champagne and Picardie.

Goudon says he was keen to produce the calendar in a hope to raise awareness of the hard work the farmers do for their nation.

He says: 'The French Farmers Calendar is a tribute to a profession which often lack of gratefulness.

'All of them (the farmers) have lent themselves to play the game of posing in a sexy way to promote in an off-the-wall way the work and dedication with which the farmers are involved relentlessly in their hard job.'

Photographer Fred Goudon says that he created the calendar to raise awareness of the hard work that farmers do for the nation that often goes unnoticed

Goudon adds that the farmers were keen to make the photos as honest of their work as possible.

He says: 'We have been warmly welcomed by farm owners all over France to make this project as realistic as possible.