25 Things ’90s Kids Said That ’00s Kids Would Never
25 Things '90s Kids Said That '00s Kids Would Never
“Can you call me back after 9 p.m.? That’s when my minutes are free.” “Grandma and Grandpa said they’d be waiting at the gate for us when our plane lands.” “He set his AIM status to and it really freaked me out.” “I need to call Mom and Dad to pick us up, but I don’t have a quarter.” “Use the rewinder to rewind the tape instead of the VCR — it’s faster.” “I’m dying to listen to my new music, but I can’t get it open!” “My school project is too big to fit on a floppy, so I had to use the Zip drive.” “Dad says to print out the MapQuest directions before we go.” “I dropped my Gak on the street and now it’s ruined forever.” “I want to watch a movie, but I’m too tired to go get one.” “Don’t forget the adapter so we can listen to tunes in the car.” “Ugh, I need to clean my mouse again.” “Who threw away the paper already? I needed to look up the movie showtimes!” “Get off the phone — I need to check my email!” “Ugh, my anti-skip protection keeps shorting out.” “Don’t waste a frame!” “Mom said that if it’s an emergency and we need her, call the restaurant she and Dad went to.” “I have nothing better to do while pooping than read all the shampoo bottles.” “I used all the internet minutes and I don’t have another free trial CD.” “I looked away for a second, and now I have to watch the whole thing again to see my channel.” “Which old thing can I tape this new show over?” “Wait until you see the message.” “Can I borrow a pencil? I ran out of lead.” “Make sure you burn to a CD-RW and not a CD-R.” “I’m hanging up the phone now!” Like, literally hanging up.   38 Toys All '90s Kids Desperately Wanted For Christmas...    23 Facts That Will Totally Fuck With Your Perception...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.