The 10 best things to do this week

With a new Star Wars set for release every year until, well, for ever, this latest at least sees the light(saber) of day before fatigue sets in. A standalone story set between Revenge Of The Sith and A New Hope, it tells the tale of the Rebels’ theft of the Death Star blueprints, the same plans that allowed Luke Skywalker and the Alliance to destroy the base in Episode IV. Hopes are high: it’s directed by Godzilla helmer Gareth Edwards , and when it comes to its Marvel and Star Wars properties, Disney tends not to make bad films nowadays. Hopefully the Force will be strong with this one. ‘Tis the season to watch a film you’ve seen at least 40 times before, like Home Alone , and you can do so this month at festive Christmas cinema pop-ups. Music Charles Hazlewood leads Philip Glass ’s orchestral interpretation of two of David Bowie ’s finest albums – Low and “Heroes” – following its Glasto slot (pictured, above). You’d be hard-pressed to find a classier tribute. Podcast This podcast from Jonathan Goldstein forces individuals to revisit a moment from their past that has haunted them, from school bullying to bad career moves. Making for both painful and gripping listening, it has been praised by This American Life ’s Ira Glass among others. Theatre Starring Fresh Meat’s Charlotte Ritchie, this new pantomime from Liam Williams and Daran Johnson (both of much-vaunted sketch troupe Sheeps) promises a cleverly postmodern take on tradition. With the story of Dick Whittington as its basis, the show wrings laughs from the dark side of London gentrification while keeping the genre’s goonish vibe intact. Exhibitions Brummie boy Hiorns is ploughing a furrow that stretches from the industrial to the philosophical, often combining the two. His latest exhibition features a video of his installation of Birmingham Cathedral choristers singing while lying on the floor (pictured, above). Then, a highlight of 2017’s art calendar will see Hiorns bury a Boeing 737 beside Birmingham canal. With its director known for his realistic, loosely structured style, School Of Rock is an anomaly in Richard Linklater’s oeuvre . A 2003 Jack Black vehicle in which the rambunctious actor plays a frustrated musician who fraudulently segues into supply teaching to pay his bills, it’s a straightforward kids’ film constructed around the slightly overwrought acting of its star. Despite that (or maybe because of it), it was also one of the most uplifting films of the decade. Now, Andrew Lloyd Webber has transferred the unfettered joy of the original to the West End in a new musical version of the story . Comedy The duo behind the Infinite Monkey Cage , standup Robin Ince and ageless physicist Brian Cox ring in yuletide with a panoply of guests from the worlds of comedy, music and science. Previous years have involved New Order, Chris Hadfield, Stewart Lee and Richard Dawkins, so expect the calibre to be impressively high. Black Squadron. Boggins. Text The Nation. Stephen! If you are at all familiar with the above concepts, you’re probably still mourning the demise of Adam Buxton and Joe Cornish ’s Saturday morning 6 Music show . So rejoice, because this week the pair revive their superlative chat for a live event. The show is also being recorded, so will hopefully materialise as a podcast at a later date. Television Devon Terrell plays a fresh-faced Obama in this Netflix biopic focusing on the young prez-to-be’s time at Columbia University. Barack – Barry to his college chums – becomes galvanised by the social injustices he witnesses and is himself subjected to. A mere snapshot of the man’s life, but a window into the coalescing of the convictions that would inform his life and career. Topics  Rogue One: A Star Wars Story   David Bowie   Podcasts   Theatre   Roger Hiorns     Comedy   Adam Buxton   Joe Cornish   Netflix

Films

Rogue One: A Star Wars Story

With a new Star Wars set for release every year until, well, for ever, this latest at least sees the light(saber) of day before fatigue sets in. A standalone story set between Revenge Of The Sith and A New Hope, it tells the tale of the Rebels’ theft of the Death Star blueprints, the same plans that allowed Luke Skywalker and the Alliance to destroy the base in Episode IV. Hopes are high: it’s directed by Godzilla helmer Gareth Edwards, and when it comes to its Marvel and Star Wars properties, Disney tends not to make bad films nowadays. Hopefully the Force will be strong with this one.

On general release from Friday 16 Dec

Christmas film events

‘Tis the season to watch a film you’ve seen at least 40 times before, like Home Alone, and you can do so this month at festive Christmas cinema pop-ups.

Until 18 Dec

Music

A Celebration Of David Bowie

Charles Hazlewood leads Philip Glass’s orchestral interpretation of two of David Bowie’s finest albums – Low and “Heroes” – following its Glasto slot (pictured, above). You’d be hard-pressed to find a classier tribute.

Sat 10 Dec, Bristol; Mon 12 Dec, Nottingham; Wed 14, Bexhill-on-Sea

Heavyweight: the podcast that goes back to when people's lives went wrong Read more

Podcast

Heavyweight

This podcast from Jonathan Goldstein forces individuals to revisit a moment from their past that has haunted them, from school bullying to bad career moves. Making for both painful and gripping listening, it has been praised by This American Life’s Ira Glass among others.

Gimletmedia.com/heavyweight/

Theatre

Ricky Whittington & His Cat

Starring Fresh Meat’s Charlotte Ritchie, this new pantomime from Liam Williams and Daran Johnson (both of much-vaunted sketch troupe Sheeps) promises a cleverly postmodern take on tradition. With the story of Dick Whittington as its basis, the show wrings laughs from the dark side of London gentrification while keeping the genre’s goonish vibe intact.

At New Diorama, NW1, until 7 Jan

Exhibitions

Roger Hiorns

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Marcin Szymczak and Ilona Zielinska/Ikon Gallery

Brummie boy Hiorns is ploughing a furrow that stretches from the industrial to the philosophical, often combining the two. His latest exhibition features a video of his installation of Birmingham Cathedral choristers singing while lying on the floor (pictured, above). Then, a highlight of 2017’s art calendar will see Hiorns bury a Boeing 737 beside Birmingham canal.

At Ikon Gallery, Birmingham, until 5 Mar

School of Rock review – Andrew Lloyd Webber's most exuberant show in years Read more

School Of Rock

With its director known for his realistic, loosely structured style, School Of Rock is an anomaly in Richard Linklater’s oeuvre. A 2003 Jack Black vehicle in which the rambunctious actor plays a frustrated musician who fraudulently segues into supply teaching to pay his bills, it’s a straightforward kids’ film constructed around the slightly overwrought acting of its star. Despite that (or maybe because of it), it was also one of the most uplifting films of the decade. Now, Andrew Lloyd Webber has transferred the unfettered joy of the original to the West End in a new musical version of the story.

At New London Theatre, WC2B, until Sun 9 April

Comedy

Christmas Compendium Of Reason

The duo behind the Infinite Monkey Cage, standup Robin Ince and ageless physicist Brian Cox ring in yuletide with a panoply of guests from the worlds of comedy, music and science. Previous years have involved New Order, Chris Hadfield, Stewart Lee and Richard Dawkins, so expect the calibre to be impressively high.

Friday 16 Dec at Eventim Apollo Hammersmith, W6

The Adam Buxton Podcast: Louis Theroux as you’ve never heard him before Read more

Adam And Joe Live

Black Squadron. Boggins. Text The Nation. Stephen! If you are at all familiar with the above concepts, you’re probably still mourning the demise of Adam Buxton and Joe Cornish’s Saturday morning 6 Music show. So rejoice, because this week the pair revive their superlative chat for a live event. The show is also being recorded, so will hopefully materialise as a podcast at a later date.

Thursday 15 Dec at the BFI, SE1

Television

Barry

Devon Terrell plays a fresh-faced Obama in this Netflix biopic focusing on the young prez-to-be’s time at Columbia University. Barack – Barry to his college chums – becomes galvanised by the social injustices he witnesses and is himself subjected to. A mere snapshot of the man’s life, but a window into the coalescing of the convictions that would inform his life and career.

On Netflix from Friday 16 Dec



