Supreme Court Brexit appeal: Judges 'heading for split 7-4 decision' in narrow win for Remain campaigners
Supreme Court Brexit appeal: Judges 'heading for split 7-4 decision' in narrow win for Remain campaigners
upreme Court judges are split over their historic Article 50 ruling, and look set to decide by a majority of seven to four to give Parliament a vote on when Britain leaves the European Union, Government sources believe. The news that more judges than expected could back the Government’s argument is a boost for the Brexit side, as some had feared before the case that only one vote would be in the Government’s favour. A narrow loss for the appeal will make it harder for Remain-supporting MPs and peers to frustrate the progress of a new law to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and start talks to leave the EU by the end of March. egal commentators and experts had believed the court comprised overwhelmingly pro-Remain judges, with some expecting the Government would lose by a margin of 10 to one. However, government lawyers in the courtroom now believe the margin is actually much narrower. One source said: “It is difficult to predict how the case is going to go but the thinking of those in the room is that there might be a sizeable minority who are with the Government. “The understanding is that it is unlikely to be a slam dunk either way; even if a majority agree with Gina Miller [who brought the case] there will be a sizeable minority who don’t. It will potentially be a split decision. he source added: “The feeling among those in the room was the division among the judges was much more pronounced than perhaps it first appeared.” The Government will still have to pass a law formally triggering Article 50 if it loses the case but only a small margin of victory for Ms Miller would make it harder for the SNP and Liberal Democrats to amend any legislation and attempt to delay it. The Supreme Court is considering the case after losing a High Court hearing last month. The judges are expected to announce their decision before the end of next month. s Miller’s legal team argued that because triggering Article 50 would revoke the legislation which took Britain into Europe, it would require an Act of Parliament to leave the EU. James Eadie QC, acting for the Government, told the Supreme Court that last week’s motion in favour of triggering Brexit by March 31 was “highly significant”. Ms Miller, the businesswoman and philanthropist who brought the case against the Government, said after the hearing that the parliamentary vote should have no bearing on the case.

Supreme Court judges are split over their historic Article 50 ruling, and look set to decide by a majority of seven to four to give Parliament a vote on when Britain leaves the European Union, Government sources believe.

The news that more judges than expected could back the Government’s argument is a boost for the Brexit side, as some had feared before the case that only one vote would be in the Government’s favour.

A narrow loss for the appeal will make it harder for Remain-supporting MPs and peers to frustrate the progress of a new law to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and start talks to leave the EU by the end of March.