Fisher-Price Debunks Fake 'Happy Hour Playset' Toy
Fisher-Price Debunks Fake 'Happy Hour Playset' Toy
Shares                Fisher-Price has taken to Twitter to debunk any notion it has a bar-themed playset for toddlers. The image of a Fisher-Price "Happy Hour Playset" was created and shared on Instagram by meme maker Adam Padilla. It shows three toddlers standing at a pretend bar, with one posing as a bartender. Two of the kids are holding what looks like plastic beer bottles. The picture prompted some Twitter complaints to Fisher-Price. The toymaker's account responded that the product wasn't "endorsed, produced or approved by Fisher-Price." The image was posted just two days after Fisher-Price was the target of a spoof by " Saturday Night Live ," which aired a fake ad for toys for sensitive boys, including a wishing well. Fisher-Price says it appreciates "the suggestions as obvious love of the brand." Shares                  Fisher-Price Debunks Fake 'Happy Hour Playset' Toy   How a Single Senate Republican Could Tank Tillerson's Nomination   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   LeBron James 'Humbled' by SI Sportsperson of the Year Award   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   Boy Calls 911 After Mother, Dog Fall Into Frozen Pond   Christmas Delivery at Space Station, Courtesy of Japan   Emirati Student Killed by Ohio Police Officer Shot 5 Times   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizzeria to Face Federal Charges   Under IS Rule, Mosul Descended Into Darkness, Dread, Pain   Gov't to Require Cars Be Able to Talk to Each Other   Veteran With Double-Arm Transplant Shows Off Progress   Cafeteria Worker Donates Thousands of Toys to Kids in Hospital   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Jennifer Lawrence Gets Back at Chris Pratt for Pranks   Italy Judge Convicts 2 in Sinking That Claimed 700 Migrants   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   Ben Affleck Says Matt Damon's Jealous He Gets to Play Batman

Fisher-Price has taken to Twitter to debunk any notion it has a bar-themed playset for toddlers.

The image of a Fisher-Price "Happy Hour Playset" was created and shared on Instagram by meme maker Adam Padilla. It shows three toddlers standing at a pretend bar, with one posing as a bartender. Two of the kids are holding what looks like plastic beer bottles.

The picture prompted some Twitter complaints to Fisher-Price. The toymaker's account responded that the product wasn't "endorsed, produced or approved by Fisher-Price."

The image was posted just two days after Fisher-Price was the target of a spoof by "Saturday Night Live," which aired a fake ad for toys for sensitive boys, including a wishing well.

Fisher-Price says it appreciates "the suggestions as obvious love of the brand."