UFC Champion Conor McGregor To Appear On Game Of Thrones, Waiting For Season 7 Just GoT Harder
UFC Champion Conor McGregor To Appear On Game Of Thrones, Waiting For Season 7 Just GoT Harder
UFC Champion Conor McGregor To Appear On Game Of Thrones, Waiting For Season 7 Just GoT Harder Being a UFC fighter champion is no easy thing; ask CM Punk and Brock Lesnar and they will tell you. Being a UFC champ is ever harder ask Rowdy Ronda Rousey or Conor The Notorious McGregor! If you think that only the former two have something in common, as in being pro-wrestlers before joining MMA, you are a tad bit behind the news. And no we don't mean that McGregor will be making a Wrestlemania appearance like Rousey, despite him attracting some decent heat from WWE stars and fans over some comments he made in the recent past. We are hinting towards the reports that the motor-mouth MMA fighter is going to make his acting debut soon. And what better stage for him to do it, than on . Bullocks, you say? Well, we got some solid proof that this may be more than a rumour. It was the Irish tabloid The Sunday Life which first reported the story with these lines: “It’s been agreed that McGregor will appear in one of the remaining two seasons of Game of Thrones. He was headhunted as it were by HBO, as one of the Game of Thrones directors is a huge UFC fan. They believed that he would be a perfect fit for the show.” “I did hear that. I knew a few months ago that they were interested in putting him in the show. I’m glad he did it. It will be great. The show is huge. It’s awesome, and I’m excited for him," White said on FOX Sports Live.

Being a UFC fighter champion is no easy thing; ask CM Punk and Brock Lesnar and they will tell you. Being a UFC champ is ever harder ask Rowdy Ronda Rousey or Conor The Notorious McGregor!

Reuters

If you think that only the former two have something in common, as in being pro-wrestlers before joining MMA, you are a tad bit behind the news.

And no we don't mean that McGregor will be making a Wrestlemania appearance like Rousey, despite him attracting some decent heat from WWE stars and fans over some comments he made in the recent past.

We are hinting towards the reports that the motor-mouth MMA fighter is going to make his acting debut soon. And what better stage for him to do it, than on Game Of Thrones.

Twitter

Bullocks, you say? Well, we got some solid proof that this may be more than a rumour. It was the Irish tabloid The Sunday Life which first reported the story with these lines:

“It’s been agreed that McGregor will appear in one of the remaining two seasons of Game of Thrones. He was headhunted as it were by HBO, as one of the Game of Thrones directors is a huge UFC fan. They believed that he would be a perfect fit for the show.”

Even as we were gearing up to dismiss this as a mere rumour, UFC president Dana White himself confirmed the news.

Reuters

“I did hear that. I knew a few months ago that they were interested in putting him in the show. I’m glad he did it. It will be great. The show is huge. It’s awesome, and I’m excited for him," White said on FOX Sports Live.

Well, this is great new. One of the coolest names on the MMA circuit will now prowl the lands of Westeros. His role is yet to be revealed but he will surely show up in the upcoming season which will premiere in 2017.

The two-division UFC champion currently taking a bit of a break from fighting after picking up his second title and announcing that he wants to own a part a UFC on same night.

And if you're wondering whether he will stand any chance on the turf, here's a video of him sparring with Hafpor Julius Bjornsson aka The Mountain.