Everything that could go wrong with Amazon Go (MailChimp)
Everything that could go wrong with Amazon Go (Paid Content)
The world got a little more magical this week. Amazon showed off its vision of the future of grocery shopping with Amazon Go , and the consensus is that the checkout-less store is truly amazing — assuming the online retail giant can pull it off. On this week's MashTalk , that's exactly what we debate. Chief Correspondent Lance Ulanoff and I talk about the tech behind Amazon Go as well as its potential problems — logistical, technological and ethical. Whether or not Amazon actually ends up becoming a brick-and-mortar retailer from the move, it's definitely a more compelling vision than delivery drones . SEE ALSO: IBM predicted Amazon Go back in 2006 Lance and I also tackle another timely topic: connected toys , which are sure to be a hit this holiday season. But dollies and robots that respond to voice and iPhone apps may be a huge security risk, depending on how they share data. Could bad guys really hack into your Christmas? We break it down in the podcast. As always, be sure to subscribe to MashTalk on whatever podcast platform you use and don't forget to leave your questions and comments by tweeting @Mash_Talk with the #MashTalk hashtag. BONUS: This viral Christmas ad is giving us all the holiday feels

The world got a little more magical this week. Amazon showed off its vision of the future of grocery shopping with Amazon Go, and the consensus is that the checkout-less store is truly amazing — assuming the online retail giant can pull it off.

On this week's MashTalk, that's exactly what we debate. Mashable Chief Correspondent Lance Ulanoff and I talk about the tech behind Amazon Go as well as its potential problems — logistical, technological and ethical. Whether or not Amazon actually ends up becoming a brick-and-mortar retailer from the move, it's definitely a more compelling vision than delivery drones.

SEE ALSO: IBM predicted Amazon Go back in 2006

Lance and I also tackle another timely topic: connected toys, which are sure to be a hit this holiday season. But dollies and robots that respond to voice and iPhone apps may be a huge security risk, depending on how they share data. Could bad guys really hack into your Christmas? We break it down in the podcast.

As always, be sure to subscribe to MashTalk on whatever podcast platform you use and don't forget to leave your questions and comments by tweeting @Mash_Talk with the #MashTalk hashtag.