Ashley Graham Still Loves Naked Dresses
Ashley Graham Still Loves Naked Dresses
The naked dress might have been the most popular trend of 2015 , but Ashley Graham hasn’t let it go — nor should she. At the premiere of on Thursday night, the judge on the rebooted show wore a black dress from Norisol Ferrari that looked like a one-piece swimsuit with a lace skirt that showed off her legs and strappy stilettos. She cinched her waist with a metallic belt, styled her hair in a high ponytail, and added dramatic eye makeup with an exaggerated cat eye. The body-positive model is a big fan of the sheer look. Just days before, she shared a picture on Instagram of a see-through top that showed off a strappy bra — one from her own Addition Elle collection. Before that, she posted a behind-the-scenes look from a photo shoot in a sheer red minidress. Graham has rocked sheer in all its variations. At the Glamour Women of the Year Awards in November, the honoree stood out in a white embellished jumpsuit from Galia Lahav. It’s possible the one-piece was even better from the back. She also showed off her curves in a polka dot long-sleeve shirt at a September event. And she has even worn a semisheer bathing suit! But it’s her red carpet gowns, otherwise known as naked dresses, that truly stand out, like the beaded Naeem Khan number she rocked on the red carpet at the VMAs in August. And the black lace dress she sported to celebrate landing the 2016 cover of the Swimsuit Issue. Which one is your favorite?

The naked dress might have been the most popular trend of 2015, but Ashley Graham hasn’t let it go — nor should she.

At the premiere of America’s Next Top Model on Thursday night, the judge on the rebooted show wore a black dress from Norisol Ferrari that looked like a one-piece swimsuit with a lace skirt that showed off her legs and strappy stilettos. She cinched her waist with a metallic belt, styled her hair in a high ponytail, and added dramatic eye makeup with an exaggerated cat eye.

The body-positive model is a big fan of the sheer look. Just days before, she shared a picture on Instagram of a see-through top that showed off a strappy bra — one from her own Addition Elle collection.





Before that, she posted a behind-the-scenes look from a photo shoot in a sheer red minidress.





Graham has rocked sheer in all its variations. At the Glamour Women of the Year Awards in November, the honoree stood out in a white embellished jumpsuit from Galia Lahav.

Ashley Graham in Galia Lahav. (Photo: Getty Images) More

It’s possible the one-piece was even better from the back.

A view of Ashley Graham’s jumpsuit from the back. (Photo: Getty Images) More

She also showed off her curves in a polka dot long-sleeve shirt at a September event.

Ashley Graham presents Ashley Graham Lingerie for Addition Elle at Nordstrom Oakbrook Center on Sept. 17, 2016, in Chicago. (Photo: Getty Images) More

And she has even worn a semisheer bathing suit!

Ashley Graham modelling a semisheer swimsuit. (Photo: swimsuitsforall) More

Read More