'Fake News!': Trump Denies 'Apprentice' Work Rumors

'Fake News!': Trump Denies 'Apprentice' Work Rumors // // // President-elect Donald Trump responded early Saturday on Twitter to rumors that he would be juggling his White House duties with "The New Celebrity Apprentice" production. Earlier this week, a spokeswoman for series creator Mark Burnett said Trump would retain an executive producer credit on the NBC reality series. Trump tweeted that he will have "nothing to do" with production of the program, save for the fact he and Burnett "have a big stake in it", and that a CNN report to the contrary was "fake news". I have NOTHING to do with The Apprentice except for fact that I conceived it with Mark B & have a big stake in it. Will devote ZERO TIME! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2016 Reports by @CNN that I will be working on The Apprentice during my Presidency, even part time, are ridiculous & untrue - FAKE NEWS! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2016 Trump's successor as host, former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-Calif.) told the Associated Press that Trump's continued association with the program is pretty normal. Schwarzenegger said he had a similar situation when he served as governor of California while retaining association with the "Terminator" franchise: "I think this is a contract that he had and I think it's great that he was part of it," Schwarzenegger said.

Giuliani Removes Himself From Consideration for Trump Cabinet Position

Tucker: Censoring 'Fake News' Is a Threat to Free Speech

Krauthammer: Trump's Cabinet Picks Not Consistent With His Campaign Rhetoric

President-elect Donald Trump responded early Saturday on Twitter to rumors that he would be juggling his White House duties with "The New Celebrity Apprentice" production.

Earlier this week, a spokeswoman for series creator Mark Burnett said Trump would retain an executive producer credit on the NBC reality series.

Trump tweeted that he will have "nothing to do" with production of the program, save for the fact he and Burnett "have a big stake in it", and that a CNN report to the contrary was "fake news".

I have NOTHING to do with The Apprentice except for fact that I conceived it with Mark B & have a big stake in it. Will devote ZERO TIME! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2016

Reports by @CNN that I will be working on The Apprentice during my Presidency, even part time, are ridiculous & untrue - FAKE NEWS! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2016

Trump's successor as host, former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-Calif.) told the Associated Press that Trump's continued association with the program is pretty normal.

Schwarzenegger said he had a similar situation when he served as governor of California while retaining association with the "Terminator" franchise:

"I think this is a contract that he had and I think it's great that he was part of it," Schwarzenegger said.

Check out the latest updates from Fox News Channel on the Trump transition!

Portland Raises Taxes on Companies Whose CEOs Earn 100x More Than Workers

McAuliffe Reveals His Pet Chicken Named 'Hillary' Died Right Before the Election