Cowboy in Turkey is engulfed in a huge cloud of dust as he herds 50 horses
Cowboy engulfed in huge cloud of dust as he herds 50 horses in Turkey


It's a scene reminiscent of the classic Western film High Noon but set in Turkey.

A cowboy is shrouded in a massive cloud of dust while herding his 50 horses on a dry day.

These breathtaking action shots of the herdsmen gathering their team, who roam freely in Kayseri, Turkey, were captured by professional photographer Dan-Alandru Miric.

These breathtaking action shots of the herdsmen gathering their 50 horses, who roam freely in Kayseri, Turkey, were captured by professional photographer Dan-Alandru Miric

It's a scene reminiscent of the classic Western film High Noon but set in Turkey

Positioned on rocks a mere 40 to 50 metres away, the 39-year-old snapper from Bucharest, Romania found the perfect vantage point to snap the majestic horses as they were gathered by their owner

Positioned on rocks a mere 40 to 50 metres away, the 39-year-old snapper from Bucharest, Romania found the perfect vantage point to snap the majestic horses as they were gathered by their owner.

Mr Miric commented that the scene reminded him of classic Western films featuring the likes of cinematic legends John Wayne and Clint Eastwood.

The genre has seen a resurgence of popularity following the success of Quentin Tarantino films Django Unchained and The Hateful Eight along with hybrid sci-fi and western television series Westworld.

Mr Miric commented that the scene reminded him of classic Western films featuring the likes of cinematic legends John Wayne and Clint Eastwood

The genre has seen a resurgence of popularity following the success of Quentin Tarantino films Django Unchained and The Hateful Eight along with hybrid sci-fi and western television series Westworld

Mr Miric said: 'The pictures brought me memories from the past, when I was a child and I was looking at Western movies'

Mr Miric said: 'The pictures brought me memories from the past, when I was a child and I was looking at Western movies.

'The moment was very powerful. The sunset gave a dramatic atmosphere and all together it gave me a combined feeling of peace and power within my self.'

Mr Miric described how challenging the experience was for him as the clouds of dust meant conditions were constantly changing throughout the two hour photography session, making it tough to get clear shots of the horses.

The photographer said: 'The moment was very powerful. The sunset gave a dramatic atmosphere and all together it gave me a combined feeling of peace and power within my self'

Mr Miric described how challenging the experience was for him as the clouds of dust meant conditions were constantly changing throughout the two hour photography session, making it tough to get clear shots of the horses

He said: 'It was a little bit difficult to have the right exposure because the dust was changing, with sometimes less and sometimes more dust, so I had to change the settings very quickly'

He said: 'It was a little bit difficult to have the right exposure because the dust was changing, with sometimes less and sometimes more dust, so I had to change the settings very quickly.

'To be sure I could photograph what I wanted and that I could transmit my emotions, I was following just one scene or just one horse, trying to gauge the next moment I wanted to photograph.'

Kayseri, in the Central Anatolia region of Turkey, sits at the foot of the extinct volcano Mount Erciyes.

'To be sure I could photograph what I wanted and that I could transmit my emotions, I was following just one scene or just one horse, trying to gauge the next moment I wanted to photograph'