Britain's Antarctic research centre to be towed inland away from expanding ice chasm
Britain's Antarctic research centre to be towed inland away from expanding ice chasm
Engineers are preparing to move an Antarctic research station because it is in the projected path of a crack expanding across the ice shelf. The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) base was built like a “very long railway train on skis”, allowing it to be moved with relative ease, but scientists did not expect to have to relocate so soon. Shortly after the brand new  “Halley VI” centre was towed to its current coordinates in 2012, a chasm that had been dormant for at least 35 years began to open up once again 4.3 miles away. Read more Giant ice sheet that could flood London is more resilient than thought Sick Antarctic workers arrive in Chile following daring rescue Arctic attraction: Our fascination with the last great wilderness David Vaughan, BAS director of science, said satellite imagery suggested the crevasse could potentially isolate the centre from the mainland. “The chasm, if it continues to grow, will eventually produce an iceberg and if we left the station where it is at the moment it would be on that iceberg,” he told Sky News , explaining that the organisation intend to tow the centre over 14 miles inland across the ice to safety. The centre was designed to make relocation possible, he said. “It is made up of separate modules, carriages if you like, each of which is sitting on four skis, it gives us the opportunity to separate each of the modules and tow them separately, using caterpillar tractors, to a new location, and then fit the whole station back together again," he added. The station is on Antarctica’s 150-metre-thick Brunt Ice Shelf, a floating ice sheet which is constantly flowing at a rate of a quarter of a mile per year towards the sea, where, at irregular intervals, it “calves” off as icebergs. “All ice shelves do this. It’s a natural event,” Hilmar Gudmundsson, a glaciologist at BAS, told . “But it’s difficult to say exactly when and how large these events will be. It’s a bit like trying to predict an earthquake.” It is not known if the growth of the crack is related to global warming or how it will develop, she said. “We don’t know what will happen. It might stop growing, but we can’t exclude the possibility of a big calving event,” she told the magazine. In October, a second crack emerged in the ice about 10.5 miles north of the station, across a route sometimes used to resupply the base. Alternative paths have been used since. Halley is crucial to studies into globally important issues, such as the impact of extreme space weather events, climate change and atmospheric phenomena.  It was scientific investigations from the current site that led to the discovery of the Antarctic Ozone Hole in 1985. Tim Stockings, operations director at BAS, said: "Over the last couple of years our operational teams have been meticulous in developing very detailed plans for the move and we are excited by the challenge. "Antarctica can be a very hostile environment. Each summer season is very short – about nine weeks.  And because the ice and the weather are unpredictable we have to be flexible in our approach." He added: "We are especially keen to minimise the disruption to the science programmes.  We have planned the move in stages – the science infrastructure that captures environmental data will remain in place while the stations modules move.” Meet the people who call Antarctica home               Meet the people who call Antarctica home    THE ADVENTURER   Climbing and skiing guide
Jean Cane, 45, who grew up in Yorkshire, works as an IT contractor in Sydney for six months of the year to fund her 'other' life, as an adventure-sports instructor on expedition cruises to the Antarctic   Mark Chilvers     THE SEAMAN   With more than 300 crossings of the Drake Passage to his name, the Ukrainian Oleg Klaptenko, 44, is one of the most experienced captains working in Antarctic waters. He is currently skipper of the ‘Ocean Diamond’, an ice-strengthened expedition vessel   Mark Chilvers     THE SCIENTIST   A professor of Oceanography and Coastal Sciences at Louisiana State University, Dr Dr Mike Polito, 35, has travelled to Antarctica regularly since 2000. He works with Penguin Lifelines (penguinlifelines.org), collecting research samples and video footage from across the continent to help us better understand and protect penguins   Mark Chilvers     THE ALL-ROUNDER   In 1995, Liesl Schernthanner, 48, took a sabbatical from her career in academic research to work with the US Antarctic Program. She never went back to her ‘real job’. The American has worked all over Antarctica, including the South Pole, where she met her British husband at a research base. This season, she is working in a conservation role for the UK Antarctic Heritage Trust, looking after historic bases on the Peninsula   Mark Chilvers     THE HISTORIAN   Antarctic historian and Polar guide Jonathan Shackleton, 63, is a cousin twice removed of the late polar explorer Ernest. He has travelled to Antarctica 37 times, leading historical tours. He lives in County Cavan, Ireland, close to where Ernest was born, and is the author of 'Shackleton: an Irishman in Antarctica'   Mark Chilvers     THE POSTMAN   Sub-postmaster Stephen Skinner, 29, was brought up in County Durham. An early obsession with the stories of Scott, Amundsen  and Shackleton led to his ‘15-year mission’ to get to Antarctica.  He finally achieved it for the first time this season, beating off scores of applicants to secure the role of sub-postmaster at Port Lockroy, the historic British base where  he also helps to maintain the museum (ukaht.org)   Mark Chilvers  Preparatory work for the relocation was carried out during the 2015-16 Antarctic summer season, which runs from November to March. The planned move will be completed in gradual stages by April 2018, allowing scientific research to continue in temporary facilities at the existing site. More about: Antarctica British Antarctic Survey Iceberg crevasse Science Comments

Engineers are preparing to move an Antarctic research station because it is in the projected path of a crack expanding across the ice shelf.

The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) base was built like a “very long railway train on skis”, allowing it to be moved with relative ease, but scientists did not expect to have to relocate so soon.

Shortly after the brand new “Halley VI” centre was towed to its current coordinates in 2012, a chasm that had been dormant for at least 35 years began to open up once again 4.3 miles away.

David Vaughan, BAS director of science, said satellite imagery suggested the crevasse could potentially isolate the centre from the mainland.

“The chasm, if it continues to grow, will eventually produce an iceberg and if we left the station where it is at the moment it would be on that iceberg,” he told Sky News, explaining that the organisation intend to tow the centre over 14 miles inland across the ice to safety.

The centre was designed to make relocation possible, he said.

“It is made up of separate modules, carriages if you like, each of which is sitting on four skis, it gives us the opportunity to separate each of the modules and tow them separately, using caterpillar tractors, to a new location, and then fit the whole station back together again," he added.

(British Antarctic Survey)

The station is on Antarctica’s 150-metre-thick Brunt Ice Shelf, a floating ice sheet which is constantly flowing at a rate of a quarter of a mile per year towards the sea, where, at irregular intervals, it “calves” off as icebergs.

“All ice shelves do this. It’s a natural event,” Hilmar Gudmundsson, a glaciologist at BAS, told New Scientist.

“But it’s difficult to say exactly when and how large these events will be. It’s a bit like trying to predict an earthquake.”

It is not known if the growth of the crack is related to global warming or how it will develop, she said.

“We don’t know what will happen. It might stop growing, but we can’t exclude the possibility of a big calving event,” she told the magazine.

In October, a second crack emerged in the ice about 10.5 miles north of the station, across a route sometimes used to resupply the base. Alternative paths have been used since.

Halley is crucial to studies into globally important issues, such as the impact of extreme space weather events, climate change and atmospheric phenomena. It was scientific investigations from the current site that led to the discovery of the Antarctic Ozone Hole in 1985.

(British Antarctic Survey)

Tim Stockings, operations director at BAS, said: "Over the last couple of years our operational teams have been meticulous in developing very detailed plans for the move and we are excited by the challenge.

"Antarctica can be a very hostile environment. Each summer season is very short – about nine weeks. And because the ice and the weather are unpredictable we have to be flexible in our approach."

He added: "We are especially keen to minimise the disruption to the science programmes. We have planned the move in stages – the science infrastructure that captures environmental data will remain in place while the stations modules move.”

Meet the people who call Antarctica home







6 show all Meet the people who call Antarctica home









1/6 THE ADVENTURER Climbing and skiing guide Jean Cane, 45, who grew up in Yorkshire, works as an IT contractor in Sydney for six months of the year to fund her 'other' life, as an adventure-sports instructor on expedition cruises to the Antarctic Mark Chilvers

2/6 THE SEAMAN With more than 300 crossings of the Drake Passage to his name, the Ukrainian Oleg Klaptenko, 44, is one of the most experienced captains working in Antarctic waters. He is currently skipper of the ‘Ocean Diamond’, an ice-strengthened expedition vessel Mark Chilvers

3/6 THE SCIENTIST A professor of Oceanography and Coastal Sciences at Louisiana State University, Dr Dr Mike Polito, 35, has travelled to Antarctica regularly since 2000. He works with Penguin Lifelines (penguinlifelines.org), collecting research samples and video footage from across the continent to help us better understand and protect penguins Mark Chilvers

4/6 THE ALL-ROUNDER In 1995, Liesl Schernthanner, 48, took a sabbatical from her career in academic research to work with the US Antarctic Program. She never went back to her ‘real job’. The American has worked all over Antarctica, including the South Pole, where she met her British husband at a research base. This season, she is working in a conservation role for the UK Antarctic Heritage Trust, looking after historic bases on the Peninsula Mark Chilvers

5/6 THE HISTORIAN Antarctic historian and Polar guide Jonathan Shackleton, 63, is a cousin twice removed of the late polar explorer Ernest. He has travelled to Antarctica 37 times, leading historical tours. He lives in County Cavan, Ireland, close to where Ernest was born, and is the author of 'Shackleton: an Irishman in Antarctica' Mark Chilvers

6/6 THE POSTMAN Sub-postmaster Stephen Skinner, 29, was brought up in County Durham. An early obsession with the stories of Scott, Amundsen and Shackleton led to his ‘15-year mission’ to get to Antarctica. He finally achieved it for the first time this season, beating off scores of applicants to secure the role of sub-postmaster at Port Lockroy, the historic British base where he also helps to maintain the museum (ukaht.org) Mark Chilvers

Preparatory work for the relocation was carried out during the 2015-16 Antarctic summer season, which runs from November to March.

The planned move will be completed in gradual stages by April 2018, allowing scientific research to continue in temporary facilities at the existing site.