Nate Diaz Says He Will Get Boxing License in California and Nevada
Nate Diaz Says He Will Get Boxing License in California and Nevada
Following in the footsteps of Conor McGregor, UFC star Nate Diaz intends to get boxing licenses in California and Nevada. Per Elias Cepeda of Champions.co, Diaz made his proclamation on ESNews. Diaz and McGregor have split two head-to-head UFC matches this year, with Diaz handing McGregor his first defeat since 2010 at UFC 196 in March. McGregor won a majority decision at UFC 202 in August, and Diaz did not handle the loss well. Imma take 10 months off.. 💯💯💯  McGregor was issued a boxing license in California in November. Diaz has left no doubt he wants a third fight against McGregor, so he would open another avenue to that end if he obtains a boxing license. Despite only fighting in mixed martial arts as a professional, Diaz has had extensive training in boxing. It's a different type of discipline than MMA , but the 31-year-old understands the sport well enough to handle himself in the event he decides to give it a shot when his UFC contract expires.

Following in the footsteps of Conor McGregor, UFC star Nate Diaz intends to get boxing licenses in California and Nevada.

Per Elias Cepeda of Champions.co, Diaz made his proclamation on ESNews.

"I'm going to get my boxing license in Cali and Nevada," he said. "I tried to get out of my contract years ago, my UFC contract, but they wouldn't let me go."

Diaz and McGregor have split two head-to-head UFC matches this year, with Diaz handing McGregor his first defeat since 2010 at UFC 196 in March.

McGregor won a majority decision at UFC 202 in August, and Diaz did not handle the loss well.

"I thought I won that fight," he said, per Adam Hill of the Las Vegas Review-Journal. "They can't have a mother [expletive] like me winning. I'm too real for this sport. They're going to get me out when they can, but it's all good, though."

Diaz hasn't fought since losing to McGregor, and he doesn't have a bout on the docket. He did announce on Twitter he was going to take time off after UFC President Dana White told Fox Sports Live (via Damon Martin of Fox Sports) that McGregor was going to wait 10 months before his next match:

Imma take 10 months off.. 💯💯💯 — Nathan Diaz (@NateDiaz209) December 7, 2016

McGregor was issued a boxing license in California in November. Diaz has left no doubt he wants a third fight against McGregor, so he would open another avenue to that end if he obtains a boxing license.

Despite only fighting in mixed martial arts as a professional, Diaz has had extensive training in boxing. It's a different type of discipline than MMA, but the 31-year-old understands the sport well enough to handle himself in the event he decides to give it a shot when his UFC contract expires.