Donald Trump to name Rex Tillerson as US Secretary of State, NBC News reports
Donald Trump to name Rex Tillerson as US Secretary of State, NBC News reports
onald Trump was reportedly expected to name Rex Tillerson, chief executive of ExxonMobil, as his Secretary of State. The intention was reported by NBC News, citing two sources, with the US television network also saying it was not final until Mr Trump officially announces his decision next week. Former UN Ambassador John Bolton will be Mr Tillerson's deputy secretary of state "for day-to-day management of the department," NBC News added, citing one unnamed source. JUST IN: Trump to name Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson as secretary of state, sources say https://t.co/kthwSkGc0j  pic.twitter.com/vZmWztv0qn r Tillerson, 64, emerged as the favouite for the job in the last few days after weeks of speculation which had also involved other potential candidates Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani. In 2013, Russian President Vladimir Putin awarded Mr Tillerson his nation's Order of Friendship. Mr Trump met Mr Tillerson on Tuesday and was believed to have talked to him again on Saturday. The president-elect appeared to be in the final days of deliberations over his top diplomat. Mr Tillerson's favoured status was revealed after Mr Giuliani, the former New York Mayor, withdrew himself from consideration. A Trump official said Mr Tillerson had moved ahead in his deliberations over Mr Romney, who has met Mr Trump twice, including at a dinner in New York. Should Mr Tillerson be nominated his business links and relationship with Russia will come under scrutiny. ExxonMobil has operations in more than 50 countries and boasts that it explores for oil and natural gas on six continents. In 2011 ExxonMobil signed a deal with Rosneft, Russia's largest state-owned oil company, for joint oil exploration and production. Since then, the companies have formed 10 joint ventures for projects in Russia. US sanctions against Russia for its incursion into Crimea cost ExxonMobil dearly, forcing it to scrap some projects and costing it at least $1 billion in losses. Mr Tillerson has been a vocal critic of the sanctions. Mr Trump has spoken of wanting warmer relations with Moscow which has sparked concerns in Congress that he could lift or loosen some of the sanctions on Russia. Mr Tillerson has been chairman and CEO of ExxonMobil since 2006. He was expected to retire from the company next year. Should he be nominated climate change could be another divisive issue. The company is under investigation by the New York Attorney General's Office for allegedly misleading investors, regulators and the public on what it knew about global warming.

Mr Tillerson, 64, emerged as the favouite for the job in the last few days after weeks of speculation which had also involved other potential candidates Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani.

In 2013, Russian President Vladimir Putin awarded Mr Tillerson his nation's Order of Friendship.

Mr Trump met Mr Tillerson on Tuesday and was believed to have talked to him again on Saturday.

The president-elect appeared to be in the final days of deliberations over his top diplomat.

Mr Tillerson's favoured status was revealed after Mr Giuliani, the former New York Mayor, withdrew himself from consideration.

A Trump official said Mr Tillerson had moved ahead in his deliberations over Mr Romney, who has met Mr Trump twice, including at a dinner in New York.

Should Mr Tillerson be nominated his business links and relationship with Russia will come under scrutiny.

ExxonMobil has operations in more than 50 countries and boasts that it explores for oil and natural gas on six continents.

In 2011 ExxonMobil signed a deal with Rosneft, Russia's largest state-owned oil company, for joint oil exploration and production. Since then, the companies have formed 10 joint ventures for projects in Russia.

US sanctions against Russia for its incursion into Crimea cost ExxonMobil dearly, forcing it to scrap some projects and costing it at least $1 billion in losses.

Mr Tillerson has been a vocal critic of the sanctions.

Mr Trump has spoken of wanting warmer relations with Moscow which has sparked concerns in Congress that he could lift or loosen some of the sanctions on Russia.

Mr Tillerson has been chairman and CEO of ExxonMobil since 2006. He was expected to retire from the company next year.

Should he be nominated climate change could be another divisive issue.

The company is under investigation by the New York Attorney General's Office for allegedly misleading investors, regulators and the public on what it knew about global warming.