From Star Wars To Shopkins, These Are The Hottest Toys Of The Holiday Season
From Star Wars To Shopkins, These Are The Hottest Toys Of The Holiday Season
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Luke Y. Thompson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. LEGO If you haven't been shopping for holiday gifts for the kids in your life, you'd better start. The mad season has begun at mass retail, and Cyber Monday is possibly a good bet to score some toys online, free from Black Friday's mobs of bargain TV hunters. But what toys are in this season? Maybe you've listened to your kids and you already know. But maybe you've been busy, or maybe you're looking to get the perfect present for a child who isn't yours and you don't see as often. Money can't buy love, as they say, but if you want it to buy you a wide-eyed "Wow! Awesome!" on December 25, here are some of your best bets: Spin Master While Hasbro has been trying to reinvent the Furby for a new generation, Spin Master one-upped them with these interactive pets that begin life as an egg, inside which you can hear your critter-to-be breathing. When it's ready to come out, its eyes light up and it cracks the shell open - now you get to "raise" it through three stages of life, from baby to toddler to kid, as it learns to walk, dance, and play games, much like the Furbies of old. And in a damnably clever strategy to ensure you visit every store, there are exclusive versions for Walmart, Target and Toys R Us. Here's the problem: you're not likely to find them. Spin Master underestimated demand, and while they plan to have more available come spring, you might have to pay upwards of $200 from toy profiteers to obtain the $59.99 toy, an approach the company itself does not recommend. Nintendo Unlike Spin Master, Nintendo might have deliberately limited quantities of its hot holiday gift to make it seem more desirable ( they claim not , but most fans believe otherwise). And for the big "kid" in your life, it is: a miniature version of the classic 8-bit Nintendo console, it comes pre-loaded with 30 classic games that hit the sweet spot for any child of the '90s. Again, you may be looking at upwards of $200 to buy these from second-party sellers, but as with all consoles, it's usually better to wait for the second wave anyway, so that any glitches discovered by the early adapters can be fixed. Hasbro 'Member AT-ATs? I 'member! Children of the '80s who are now parents undoubtedly still remember the thrill of unwrapping 's menacing Imperial Walker under the tree; now they can pass that thrill along as the updated AT-ACT (the extra C is for "Cargo") adds new features that wouldn't have been possible before, like app interactivity and remote-control walking and firing action. Also, it blasts Nerf darts, includes a removable cargo container that doubles as a mini-Rebel base, and includes three figures: an Imperial driver, a black R2 unit droid and the heroic Jyn Erso, who presumably takes one of these down at some point in the new movie. It's pricier than the toy you remember, retailing around $299.99, but Big Bad Toy Store is still accepting preorders for $274.99 and are expecting them in stock before the month is over. Moose Toys Small, cute and highly collectible, Shopkins are the sort of thing you'd imagine would be invented in Japan, but in fact they hail from Melbourne, Australia. Basically grocery store items with happy faces and names like Cheeky Chocolate and D'lish Donut, they can also be scanned and played with in an app game. Like Pokemon, Digimon and Yu-Gi-Oh characters before them, however, there are a lot to keep track of , and I'd highly suggest consulting another kid to figure out which ones are Also, beware of counterfeits .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Tiffany & Co. Says Increased Security Around Trump Tower Is Hurting Business At Its Flagship Store

If you haven't been shopping for holiday gifts for the kids in your life, you'd better start. The mad season has begun at mass retail, and Cyber Monday is possibly a good bet to score some toys online, free from Black Friday's mobs of bargain TV hunters. But what toys are in this season? Maybe you've listened to your kids and you already know. But maybe you've been busy, or maybe you're looking to get the perfect present for a child who isn't yours and you don't see as often. Money can't buy love, as they say, but if you want it to buy you a wide-eyed "Wow! Awesome!" on December 25, here are some of your best bets:

Hatchimals

While Hasbro has been trying to reinvent the Furby for a new generation, Spin Master one-upped them with these interactive pets that begin life as an egg, inside which you can hear your critter-to-be breathing. When it's ready to come out, its eyes light up and it cracks the shell open - now you get to "raise" it through three stages of life, from baby to toddler to kid, as it learns to walk, dance, and play games, much like the Furbies of old. And in a damnably clever strategy to ensure you visit every store, there are exclusive versions for Walmart, Target and Toys R Us.

Here's the problem: you're not likely to find them. Spin Master underestimated demand, and while they plan to have more available come spring, you might have to pay upwards of $200 from toy profiteers to obtain the $59.99 toy, an approach the company itself does not recommend.

Nintendo Entertainment System: NES Classic Edition

Unlike Spin Master, Nintendo might have deliberately limited quantities of its hot holiday gift to make it seem more desirable (they claim not, but most fans believe otherwise). And for the big "kid" in your life, it is: a miniature version of the classic 8-bit Nintendo console, it comes pre-loaded with 30 classic games that hit the sweet spot for any child of the '90s. Again, you may be looking at upwards of $200 to buy these from second-party sellers, but as with all consoles, it's usually better to wait for the second wave anyway, so that any glitches discovered by the early adapters can be fixed.

Star Wars: Rogue One Rapid Fire Imperial AT-ACT

'Member AT-ATs? I 'member! Children of the '80s who are now parents undoubtedly still remember the thrill of unwrapping The Empire Strikes Back's menacing Imperial Walker under the tree; now they can pass that thrill along as the updated AT-ACT (the extra C is for "Cargo") adds new features that wouldn't have been possible before, like app interactivity and remote-control walking and firing action. Also, it blasts Nerf darts, includes a removable cargo container that doubles as a mini-Rebel base, and includes three figures: an Imperial driver, a black R2 unit droid and the heroic Jyn Erso, who presumably takes one of these down at some point in the new movie. It's pricier than the toy you remember, retailing around $299.99, but Big Bad Toy Store is still accepting preorders for $274.99 and are expecting them in stock before the month is over.

Shopkins

Small, cute and highly collectible, Shopkins are the sort of thing you'd imagine would be invented in Japan, but in fact they hail from Melbourne, Australia. Basically grocery store items with happy faces and names like Cheeky Chocolate and D'lish Donut, they can also be scanned and played with in an app game. Like Pokemon, Digimon and Yu-Gi-Oh characters before them, however, there are a lot to keep track of, and I'd highly suggest consulting another kid to figure out which ones are common, rare, ultra rare, special edition, and limited edition.

Also, beware of counterfeits.