Judge Gives Finalizes Khloé​ Kardashian's Divorce From Lamar Odom
Judge Gives Finalizes Khloé​ Kardashian's Divorce From Lamar Odom
é

A Los Angeles judge has finalized the divorce of Khloé​ Kardashian and Lamar Odom, the final check box on a messy three-year divorce process. The settlement was agreed upon in October, and the pair will be officially divorced beginning Dec. 17. Neither will receive spousal support.

Khloé​ filed for divorce from Odom Dec. 13, 2013 after four years of marriage to the NBA basketball player. In October 2015, Odom was found unconscious in a Nevada brothel and remained in a coma for four days. At that time Khloé​ withdrew the divorce petition, which was not yet finalized, and stayed at the hospital with Odom. She later clarified this was not because she and Odom were getting back together, but was simply a legal effort to make decisions on the hospital proceeding for Odom’s health.

In the months following the incident, public appearances left many speculating that the pair had reconciled, though Khloé​ denied the rumors, tweeting “God forbid exes are cordial right?"

Since she filed for divorce in 2013, Khloé​ has been connected to hip hop artist French Montana and basketball players James Harden and Tristan Thompson.

In April 2016, Khloé​ posted a lengthy meditation on Facebook and wrote, “We have to learn to stop taking on peoples [sic] problems as if they are our own. Loving people does not mean we have to carry their burdens and confusions on our back.” She also wrote that, “You can't want their life more than they do. This is in fact their life to figure out on their own and in their own time.” Many understood this to be a reference to her ending marriage with Odom and a comment about his alleged substance abuse issues that plagued the couple’s relationship.

In an episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians that aired in August 2016, Khloé​ revealed she was still worried about the health of her ex-husband after hearing through the grapevine that he was “hanging out with bad guys again.”

"It saddens me,” she said. “I know Lamar wants better. I know Lamar wants to excel and be on a good path, but he just can't help it."