Drake’s OVO Imprint Announces NYC Flagship Store
Drake’s OVO Imprint Announces NYC Flagship Store
After aligning his October’s Very Own imprint with the likes of Jordan Brand and Beats Radio, Drake is taking things to the retail level with a flagship store in New York. The OVO Flagship store is scheduled to open Saturday, Dec. 10 at 54 Bond Street in New York. The initial announcement came via a Ben Solomon-directed video (above) showing the surrounding location for the proposed store. Some of the blanks were filled in with a subsequent tweet. #NYWELCOMEOVO 12.10.16 📷: @KennethCappello  pic.twitter.com/9TrZSLJMQu Since launching his own successful solo recording career, Drake, Oliver El-Khatib, and long-time producer Noah "40" Shebib have inked a deal with Warner Bros. for the October’s Very Own Sound imprint with Partynextdoor as the label's marquee artist. The OVO influence also spilled over to Drake’s deal with Jordan Brand, as the Air Jordan XII OVO hit select retailers earlier this year. Drake further expanded the OVO imprint by launching OVO Sound Radio in 2015 as part of a partnership with Beats 1 Radio and Apple Music. Complex's Eric Diep was on the ground at the flagship's opening to check out the line and merchandise. Only five people are allowed to enter the store at a time, however the line is reportedly moving relatively fast. The full retail roll out of the flaghship NYC store follows a previous “Summer Sixteen” pop up shop in New York. However, as the term “pop up shop” implies, the store was only active from Aug. 4-7, 2016. Prior to the flagship store announcement, select merchandise such as jackets and other OVO branded clothing were sold on the official October’s Very Own website.

After aligning his October’s Very Own imprint with the likes of Jordan Brand and Beats Radio, Drake is taking things to the retail level with a flagship store in New York. The OVO Flagship store is scheduled to open Saturday, Dec. 10 at 54 Bond Street in New York. The initial announcement came via a Ben Solomon-directed video (above) showing the surrounding location for the proposed store. Some of the blanks were filled in with a subsequent tweet.

Since launching his own successful solo recording career, Drake, Oliver El-Khatib, and long-time producer Noah "40" Shebib have inked a deal with Warner Bros. for the October’s Very Own Sound imprint with Partynextdoor as the label's marquee artist. The OVO influence also spilled over to Drake’s deal with Jordan Brand, as the Air Jordan XII OVO hit select retailers earlier this year. Drake further expanded the OVO imprint by launching OVO Sound Radio in 2015 as part of a partnership with Beats 1 Radio and Apple Music.

Complex's Eric Diep was on the ground at the flagship's opening to check out the line and merchandise. Only five people are allowed to enter the store at a time, however the line is reportedly moving relatively fast.

Image via Eric Diep/Complex

The full retail roll out of the flaghship NYC store follows a previous “Summer Sixteen” pop up shop in New York. However, as the term “pop up shop” implies, the store was only active from Aug. 4-7, 2016. Prior to the flagship store announcement, select merchandise such as jackets and other OVO branded clothing were sold on the official October’s Very Own website.