Actor T.J. Miller Arrested for Allegedly Slapping Uber Drive
Actor T.J. Miller Arrested for Allegedly Slapping Uber Drive
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER and HBO’s star T. J. Miller was arrested in Hollywood early Friday morning for allegedly beating the driver of a car in which he was riding. The car service driver reported the attack at around 1 a.m. Friday, the Los Angeles Police Department confirms. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “It didn’t happen in front of officers,” LAPD spokesman Officer Jenny Houser told the The incident was investigated and Miller was arrested shortly thereafter. The comedian was cited on the misdemeanor offense and released. According to TMZ, Miller allegedly got into an argument with an Uber driver over President-elect Donald Trump, though the substance of the conversation was not reported. A day earlier, Miller was a guest on Conan O’Brien’s show to promote his new holiday comedy Hours before the alleged incident, Miller attended the Men of the Year party with his wife, actress Kate Gorney. Miller is set to host the 2016 Critics’ Choice Awards on Sunday. His future in film will be packed with more starring roles, including in Steven Spielberg’s sic-fi thriller and the animated movie opens in theaters December 9. The film also stars Jason Bateman, Olivia Munn, Jennifer Aniston and Kate McKinnon.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Deadpool and HBO’s Silicon Valley star T. J. Miller was arrested in Hollywood early Friday morning for allegedly beating the driver of a car in which he was riding.

The car service driver reported the attack at around 1 a.m. Friday, the Los Angeles Police Department confirms.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“It didn’t happen in front of officers,” LAPD spokesman Officer Jenny Houser told the Los Angeles Times. The incident was investigated and Miller was arrested shortly thereafter.

The comedian was cited on the misdemeanor offense and released.

According to TMZ, Miller allegedly got into an argument with an Uber driver over President-elect Donald Trump, though the substance of the conversation was not reported.

A day earlier, Miller was a guest on Conan O’Brien’s show to promote his new holiday comedy Office Christmas Party.

Hours before the alleged incident, Miller attended the GQ Men of the Year party with his wife, actress Kate Gorney.

Miller is set to host the 2016 Critics’ Choice Awards on Sunday.

His future in film will be packed with more starring roles, including in Steven Spielberg’s sic-fi thriller Ready Player One and the animated movie How to Train Your Dragon 3.

Office Christmas Party opens in theaters December 9. The film also stars Jason Bateman, Olivia Munn, Jennifer Aniston and Kate McKinnon.

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson