Trump: We're Going to Start Saying 'Merry Christmas' Again

Trump: We're Going to Start Saying 'Merry Christmas' Again // // // // President-elect @realDonaldTrump : "We're going to start saying 'Merry Christmas' again!" pic.twitter.com/kzpTKri4sp — Fox News (@FoxNews) December 10, 2016 At a rally in Michigan yesterday, President-elect Donald Trump heralded what he called the return of the ubiquity of the phrase "Merry Christmas" during the festive season. "We're going to start saying Merry Christmas again," Trump said, noting that over the past number of years many department stores have kept their more secular decorations, like fake snow, red walls and bells, "but they don't have 'Merry Christmas'." Trump appeared to echo some of the sentiments expressed by Bill O'Reilly in a 2013 monologue, in which the "O'Reilly Factor" host responded to comments by comedian Jon Stewart. O'Reilly said that in recent times, the secular-progressive movement has instituted somewhat of a "war" on the idea of Christmas as a widely-accepted holiday. In order to mold the country in their image, he said, the Left must diminish Judeo-Christian traditions and get influences like Christmas out of the way, because it stands in opposition to them.

Giuliani on Criticism of Generals: 'Something Wrong With the Left Wing'

Borelli: Left Throwing 'Temper Tantrums' Because Trump Will Help Inner Cities

'Fake News!': Trump Denies 'Apprentice' Work Rumors

At a rally in Michigan yesterday, President-elect Donald Trump heralded what he called the return of the ubiquity of the phrase "Merry Christmas" during the festive season.

"We're going to start saying Merry Christmas again," Trump said, noting that over the past number of years many department stores have kept their more secular decorations, like fake snow, red walls and bells, "but they don't have 'Merry Christmas'."

Trump appeared to echo some of the sentiments expressed by Bill O'Reilly in a 2013 monologue, in which the "O'Reilly Factor" host responded to comments by comedian Jon Stewart.

O'Reilly said that in recent times, the secular-progressive movement has instituted somewhat of a "war" on the idea of Christmas as a widely-accepted holiday.

In order to mold the country in their image, he said, the Left must diminish Judeo-Christian traditions and get influences like Christmas out of the way, because it stands in opposition to them.

Check out the latest updates from Fox News Channel on the Trump transition!

Krauthammer: Trump's Cabinet Picks Not Consistent With His Campaign Rhetoric

Giuliani Removes Himself From Consideration for Trump Cabinet Position