According to Facebook, Australia couldn't get enough of Trump in 2016
According to Facebook, Australia couldn't get enough of Trump in 2016
Like slowing down to gawk at a car crash, Australia could not get enough of the U.S. election in 2016. It was the most talked about topic among the 15 million or so Australians sharing posts on Facebook this year, according to the company's own data. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and shark attacks rounded out the top three. So, all in all, a remarkably gloomy year. SEE ALSO: Everyone hates Facebook's 'Year in Review,' not just you According to Mia Garlick, director of Facebook policy for Australia and New Zealand, 289 million people around the world created 10 billion interactions —- likes, comments, shares and original posts — from the day Ted Cruz announced his candidacy for president in Mar., 2015 through to election day this November. "The fact that the US election did not feature in the top ten most talked about topics by Australians in 2015 suggests that 2016 was the year that got Australians most engaged about the election," she said. And why not? The whole thing was, and continues to be, C.R.A.Z.Y. Alongside Turnbull, right-wing politician Pauline Hanson was the only other local politico to make the top 10 list. Australia held its own election this year, but apparently the whole rigmarole wasn't quite as engaging as Clinton v. Trump. Here's your 2016 "most talked about" list, Australia. And here's hoping 2017 is slightly more cheery. 1. U.S. Elections A family waits for President-elect Donald Trump to take the stage at the DeltaPlex Arena, December 9, 2016 in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Image:  Getty Images 2. Malcolm Turnbull Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull attends the opening ceremony of the G-20 Summit on September 4, 2016 in Hangzhou, China. Image:  Getty Images 3. Shark Attacks A lifeguard patrols Shelly Beach after a shark attack. Image:  Getty Images 4. David Bowie Flowers, candles and pictures sit at a memorial outside of the late musician and performer David Bowie's apartment that he shared with his wife on January 11, 2016 in New York City. Image:  Getty Images 5. Pokémon Go Pokemon GO players meet at Sydney Opera House on July 20, 2016 in Sydney, Australia. Image:  Getty Images 6. Pauline Hanson Pauline Hanson's autobiography, "Untamed & Unashamed: The Autobiography." Image:  Getty Images 7. Western Bulldogs and AFL Grand Final Luke Dahlhaus of the Bulldogs celebrates during the 2016 Toyota AFL Grand Final match between the Sydney Swans and the Western Bulldogs at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on October 01, 2016 in Melbourne, Australia. Image:  Getty Images 8. Brexit A man waves the EU flag outside the Supreme Court during the first day of a hearing into whether Parliament's consent is required before the Brexit process can begin, on December 5, 2016 in London, England. Image:  Getty Images 9. Rodrigo Duterte Leftist activists march in Manila to show support for Rodrigo Duterte during his oath to office on June 30, 2016 in Manila, Philippines. Image:  Getty Images 10. Olympics Flag bearer Anna Meares of Australia leads her team during the Opening Ceremony of the Rio 2016 Olympic Games at Maracana Stadium on August 5, 2016 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Image:  Getty Images BONUS: Facebook Fundraiser Tools

Like slowing down to gawk at a car crash, Australia could not get enough of the U.S. election in 2016.

It was the most talked about topic among the 15 million or so Australians sharing posts on Facebook this year, according to the company's own data. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and shark attacks rounded out the top three. So, all in all, a remarkably gloomy year.

According to Mia Garlick, director of Facebook policy for Australia and New Zealand, 289 million people around the world created 10 billion interactions —- likes, comments, shares and original posts — from the day Ted Cruz announced his candidacy for president in Mar., 2015 through to election day this November.

"The fact that the US election did not feature in the top ten most talked about topics by Australians in 2015 suggests that 2016 was the year that got Australians most engaged about the election," she said.

And why not? The whole thing was, and continues to be, C.R.A.Z.Y.

Alongside Turnbull, right-wing politician Pauline Hanson was the only other local politico to make the top 10 list. Australia held its own election this year, but apparently the whole rigmarole wasn't quite as engaging as Clinton v. Trump.

Here's your 2016 "most talked about" list, Australia. And here's hoping 2017 is slightly more cheery.

1. U.S. Elections

A family waits for President-elect Donald Trump to take the stage at the DeltaPlex Arena, December 9, 2016 in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Image: Getty Images

2. Malcolm Turnbull

Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull attends the opening ceremony of the G-20 Summit on September 4, 2016 in Hangzhou, China. Image: Getty Images

3. Shark Attacks

A lifeguard patrols Shelly Beach after a shark attack. Image: Getty Images

4. David Bowie

Flowers, candles and pictures sit at a memorial outside of the late musician and performer David Bowie's apartment that he shared with his wife on January 11, 2016 in New York City. Image: Getty Images

5. Pokémon Go

Pokemon GO players meet at Sydney Opera House on July 20, 2016 in Sydney, Australia. Image: Getty Images

6. Pauline Hanson

Pauline Hanson's autobiography, "Untamed & Unashamed: The Autobiography." Image: Getty Images

7. Western Bulldogs and AFL Grand Final

Luke Dahlhaus of the Bulldogs celebrates during the 2016 Toyota AFL Grand Final match between the Sydney Swans and the Western Bulldogs at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on October 01, 2016 in Melbourne, Australia. Image: Getty Images

8. Brexit

A man waves the EU flag outside the Supreme Court during the first day of a hearing into whether Parliament's consent is required before the Brexit process can begin, on December 5, 2016 in London, England. Image: Getty Images

9. Rodrigo Duterte

Leftist activists march in Manila to show support for Rodrigo Duterte during his oath to office on June 30, 2016 in Manila, Philippines. Image: Getty Images

10. Olympics

Flag bearer Anna Meares of Australia leads her team during the Opening Ceremony of the Rio 2016 Olympic Games at Maracana Stadium on August 5, 2016 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Image: Getty Images