Five Extraordinary Trips To Make This Holiday Season
Five Extraordinary Trips To Make This Holiday Season
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Raini Hamdi       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. One clear travel trend this year is that more Asians are becoming free independent travelers (FIT), eschewing the ordinariness of coach travel for the novelty – and bragging rights – of new places and experiences. Here are five extraordinary trips for them to make this holiday season. Torres del Paine, one of Chile's wondrous sights. Photo credit: Shutterstock. The sights are stupendous and varied: sand dunes, salt lakes, towering peaks, glaciers, geysers, lakes. Chile has it all in vivid colors. Use the capital Santiago as a hub and fly to hot spots like the Atacama Desert in the north, Patagonia in the south, or the mysterious Easter Island, famous for its nearly 900 monumental human figures with oversized heads carved right out of a volcanic mountain, then transported to different parts of the island – a gargantuan feat for mere humans. Another highlight of a Chile trip, especially for avid hikers, is a 19km hike to the base of Torres del Paine (Towers of Paine) to view the three 2,000-meter granite towers in all their splendor, a sight guaranteed to floor anyone. Chileans are friendly and hosts at heart. The best time to visit is November to early March, so it’s perfect for the holiday season. Where to stay: Awasi Atacama . Car-free Zermatt (Canton Valais). Photo credit: Switzerland Tourism//Christof Sonderegger. For a holiday as rich as Christmas pudding, Switzerland is hard to beat. Think spellbinding street lights and snowy villages, where the only problem you face is too much choice of where to go. Though it's small, Switzerland is multifaceted with a variety of history and traditions. For cities, Zurich has the largest indoor Christmas market in Europe (until Christmas Eve) in the main hall of the Central Station where you can gorge on local treats from 160 stalls while your eyes feast on a Christmas tree decorated with 10,000 Swarovski crystals. Other highlights include a unique singing tree in town (come closer to the tree and you'll see it is actually filled with children singing Christmas songs) and the release of 800 floating candles into the River Limmat on December 22. Then head to Zermatt for an alpine experience. It’s car-free, leaving the snow-covered streets gorgeously illuminated for the holidays. And the Matterhorn never fails to mesmerize. There also aren't any large crowds at this time, making this a sublime place to have a "Silent Night, Holy Night" moment filled with love and gratitude. Where to stay: The Dolder Grand (Zurich); Le Petit Cervin or the Bellerive (Zermatt). Northern Lights, Finland. Photo credit: Visit Finland. Everyone knowns Santa lives in Finnish Lapland and it’s time you pay him a visit for all those times he came to your house. At least that's according to Visit Finland, Finland's official tourism promoter which, together with Finnair, has been recently courting Asian visitors  to visit the country. Lapland, the largest and northernmost region of Finland, has 190,000 reindeers, 749 mountains and one Santa Claus. While there is a Santa's Village there, this amusement park may be too commercialized for some. Best to check out hotels and resorts that offer a more authentic experience where the highlights can include visits to husky and reindeer farms, hunts for the Northern Lights with a guide, snow mobile safaris and winter fishing. Finland will mark its 100th year of independence next year and to mark the occasion, Visit Finland has launched a "StopOver Finland" initiative comprising 50 easily reachable packages/services lasting five hours to five days. It's also worth mentioning that Experiences available to Asian tourists include running tours of Helsinki, a two-day package to see the Northern Lights and a one-day trip incorporating two capital cities, Tallinn and Helsinki. Party all night at Zouk on board Genting Dream. Photo credit: Dream Cruises. If you're after something different, why not eschew your boarding pass for a spot on a cruise? Hop onto , the first cruise ship of Asia’s first luxury cruise line, Dream Cruises. It sails out from Hong Kong or Guangzhou in the south of China, and takes you to scenic destinations in Vietnam including Ha Long Bay and Danang. As with all firsts, it's out to impress so you can expect keen service and a sparkling new vessel with such a wide range of facilities and entertainment it could be considered a destination on its own. This includes a waterslide park, Zouk nightclub (famous for its Singapore and Kuala Lumpur locations), more than 35 restaurant and bar concepts, the first Penfolds flagship wine vault at sea and a "Dreamscapes enrichment program" that will offer talks and presentations from esteemed speakers. Joining the cruise on December 10, for instance, is American astronaut Dr. Leroy Chiao, who will deliver a three-part lecture. A Garden Villa at Cheval Blanc, Randheli. Photo credit: Cheval Blanc, Randheli. The best time to visit the Maldives is from the second half of December to April, making it another destination pick that’s perfect for the holiday season. If you've been rewarded with a bonus as fat as Santa himself, treat yourself to a stay at Cheval Blanc Randheli . Owned by LVMH, it's one of the most stylish resorts in the Maldives with its contemporary minimalist design (by architect Jean Michel-Gathy), spaciousness (not just the size of the room; the resort’s spa occupies another whole adjacent island), and extensive facilities to suit any tastes or needs (you have your own for the entire stay who caters to your likes/dislikes and ensures your day runs just as you wish).    Trending on {{channel_name}}

One clear travel trend this year is that more Asians are becoming free independent travelers (FIT), eschewing the ordinariness of coach travel for the novelty – and bragging rights – of new places and experiences.

Here are five extraordinary trips for them to make this holiday season.

1. Adventurous Christmas: Chile

The sights are stupendous and varied: sand dunes, salt lakes, towering peaks, glaciers, geysers, lakes. Chile has it all in vivid colors.

Use the capital Santiago as a hub and fly to hot spots like the Atacama Desert in the north, Patagonia in the south, or the mysterious Easter Island, famous for its nearly 900 monumental human figures with oversized heads carved right out of a volcanic mountain, then transported to different parts of the island – a gargantuan feat for mere humans.

Another highlight of a Chile trip, especially for avid hikers, is a 19km hike to the base of Torres del Paine (Towers of Paine) to view the three 2,000-meter granite towers in all their splendor, a sight guaranteed to floor anyone.

Chileans are friendly and hosts at heart. The best time to visit is November to early March, so it’s perfect for the holiday season.

Where to stay: Awasi Atacama.

2. Premium Christmas: Switzerland

For a holiday as rich as Christmas pudding, Switzerland is hard to beat. Think spellbinding street lights and snowy villages, where the only problem you face is too much choice of where to go. Though it's small, Switzerland is multifaceted with a variety of history and traditions.

For cities, Zurich has the largest indoor Christmas market in Europe (until Christmas Eve) in the main hall of the Central Station where you can gorge on local treats from 160 stalls while your eyes feast on a Christmas tree decorated with 10,000 Swarovski crystals. Other highlights include a unique singing tree in town (come closer to the tree and you'll see it is actually filled with children singing Christmas songs) and the release of 800 floating candles into the River Limmat on December 22.

Then head to Zermatt for an alpine experience. It’s car-free, leaving the snow-covered streets gorgeously illuminated for the holidays. And the Matterhorn never fails to mesmerize. There also aren't any large crowds at this time, making this a sublime place to have a "Silent Night, Holy Night" moment filled with love and gratitude.

Where to stay: The Dolder Grand (Zurich); Le Petit Cervin or the Bellerive (Zermatt).

3. Christmas in Santa’s home: Finland

Everyone knowns Santa lives in Finnish Lapland and it’s time you pay him a visit for all those times he came to your house. At least that's according to Visit Finland, Finland's official tourism promoter which, together with Finnair, has been recently courting Asian visitors to visit the country.

Lapland, the largest and northernmost region of Finland, has 190,000 reindeers, 749 mountains and one Santa Claus. While there is a Santa's Village there, this amusement park may be too commercialized for some. Best to check out hotels and resorts that offer a more authentic experience where the highlights can include visits to husky and reindeer farms, hunts for the Northern Lights with a guide, snow mobile safaris and winter fishing.

Finland will mark its 100th year of independence next year and to mark the occasion, Visit Finland has launched a "StopOver Finland" initiative comprising 50 easily reachable packages/services lasting five hours to five days. It's also worth mentioning that Finland is the shortest connection between Europe and Asia, giving you even more reason to make the comparatively short trip.

Experiences available to Asian tourists include running tours of Helsinki, a two-day package to see the Northern Lights and a one-day trip incorporating two capital cities, Tallinn and Helsinki.

4. Christmas-at-sea: Genting Dream

If you're after something different, why not eschew your boarding pass for a spot on a cruise? Hop onto Genting Dream, the first cruise ship of Asia’s first luxury cruise line, Dream Cruises. It sails out from Hong Kong or Guangzhou in the south of China, and takes you to scenic destinations in Vietnam including Ha Long Bay and Danang.

As with all firsts, it's out to impress so you can expect keen service and a sparkling new vessel with such a wide range of facilities and entertainment it could be considered a destination on its own. This includes a waterslide park, Zouk nightclub (famous for its Singapore and Kuala Lumpur locations), more than 35 restaurant and bar concepts, the first Penfolds flagship wine vault at sea and a "Dreamscapes enrichment program" that will offer talks and presentations from esteemed speakers. Joining the cruise on December 10, for instance, is American astronaut Dr. Leroy Chiao, who will deliver a three-part lecture.

5. "Break the bank" Christmas: The Maldives

The best time to visit the Maldives is from the second half of December to April, making it another destination pick that’s perfect for the holiday season.

If you've been rewarded with a bonus as fat as Santa himself, treat yourself to a stay at Cheval Blanc Randheli. Owned by LVMH, it's one of the most stylish resorts in the Maldives with its contemporary minimalist design (by architect Jean Michel-Gathy), spaciousness (not just the size of the room; the resort’s spa occupies another whole adjacent island), and extensive facilities to suit any tastes or needs (you have your own majordome for the entire stay who caters to your likes/dislikes and ensures your day runs just as you wish).