More than one in three victims of domestic abuse are now men
More than one in three victims of domestic abuse are now men
The number of male victims of domestic abuse has gone up while the the rate among women has fallen, according to new figures. About 1.2 million women and 651,000 men said they were domestic abuse victims in England and Wales in the year to March 2016, the smallest gap between the sexes on record. This equates to 7.7 per cent of women and 4.4 per cent of men, compared with 8.8 and 4 per cent respectively in the previous year.   Number of women convicted of domestic violence at record high Around 1.03 million domestic abuse-related offences were reported to police and accounted for one in 10 of all crimes recorded. According to data released by the Office for National Statistics , police concluded a crime was committed in 421,000 of these incidents. However only 100,930 cases were actually prosecuted, leading to 75,235 convictions, representing about 7.5 per cent of reports to police and just four per cent of the figure produced by the survey. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK   Rex     11 December 2016   Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity   PA wire     8 December 2016   Gina Miller   Reuters     5 December 2016   Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier   PA wire     5 December 2016   Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences   PA wire     5 December 2016   Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing   Getty  Women are far more likely than men to be killed as a result of domestic violence , according to the ONS. Of the 432 domestic homicides between April 2012 and March 2015, 73 per cent were female and 27 per cent were male. Polly Neate, chief executive of charity Women’s Aid , welcomed the latest statistics as a means of highlighting domestic abuse, but said they failed to reflect the “true situation”. She said the figures do not take into account “important context”, including the impact of abuse on the victim, the severity of the violence, where there were multiple incidents, or if they formed a pattern of “coercive control”. “It would be dangerous to interpret these figures without taking these crucial factors into consideration,” said Ms Neate.   Women are forced to travel miles to get help for domestic violence “We know that nearly half of women killed in the UK are killed by an intimate partner or former partner, compared with six per cent of men killed and not always by a woman, and we know that the overwhelming majority of victims of repeated patterns of coercion and control, are women, and that on average two women a week are killed by a partner or ex-partner in England and Wales. “We are talking to the ONS about these serious concerns and working with them to make sure the data captured is relevant, accurate and helpful in tackling domestic abuse and ending violence against women and girls.” Women's Aid added that domestic abuse convictions may often fall through because women decide not to pursue charges and there may not be enough evidence for the CPS. The number of women convicted of domestic violence has tripled, from 1,850 to 5,741, over the past decade. Conservative MP Philip Davies said earlier this year that male victims should not be forgotten. “When people think of domestic violence, they automatically think of men abusing women," he said. “But the vast increase in the number of women convicted of domestic violence over the past decade must not be overlooked."   The charity offering life-changing surgery to domestic abuse survivors It can also involve psychological, physical, sexual, financial or emotional abuse. More about: domestic abuse Office Of National Statistics domestic violence

The number of male victims of domestic abuse has gone up while the the rate among women has fallen, according to new figures.

About 1.2 million women and 651,000 men said they were domestic abuse victims in England and Wales in the year to March 2016, the smallest gap between the sexes on record.

This equates to 7.7 per cent of women and 4.4 per cent of men, compared with 8.8 and 4 per cent respectively in the previous year.

Around 1.03 million domestic abuse-related offences were reported to police and accounted for one in 10 of all crimes recorded.

According to data released by the Office for National Statistics, police concluded a crime was committed in 421,000 of these incidents.

However only 100,930 cases were actually prosecuted, leading to 75,235 convictions, representing about 7.5 per cent of reports to police and just four per cent of the figure produced by the survey.

UK news in pictures







10 show all UK news in pictures

















1/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

2/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

3/10 11 December 2016 Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK Rex

4/10 11 December 2016 Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity PA wire

5/10 8 December 2016 Gina Miller Reuters

6/10 5 December 2016 Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier PA wire

7/10 5 December 2016 Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London PA wire

8/10 5 December 2016 A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London PA wire

9/10 5 December 2016 Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences PA wire

10/10 5 December 2016 Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing Getty

Women are far more likely than men to be killed as a result of domestic violence, according to the ONS.

Of the 432 domestic homicides between April 2012 and March 2015, 73 per cent were female and 27 per cent were male.

Polly Neate, chief executive of charity Women’s Aid, welcomed the latest statistics as a means of highlighting domestic abuse, but said they failed to reflect the “true situation”.

She said the figures do not take into account “important context”, including the impact of abuse on the victim, the severity of the violence, where there were multiple incidents, or if they formed a pattern of “coercive control”.

“It would be dangerous to interpret these figures without taking these crucial factors into consideration,” said Ms Neate.

“We know that nearly half of women killed in the UK are killed by an intimate partner or former partner, compared with six per cent of men killed and not always by a woman, and we know that the overwhelming majority of victims of repeated patterns of coercion and control, are women, and that on average two women a week are killed by a partner or ex-partner in England and Wales.

“We are talking to the ONS about these serious concerns and working with them to make sure the data captured is relevant, accurate and helpful in tackling domestic abuse and ending violence against women and girls.”

Women's Aid added that domestic abuse convictions may often fall through because women decide not to pursue charges and there may not be enough evidence for the CPS.

The number of women convicted of domestic violence has tripled, from 1,850 to 5,741, over the past decade.

Fifty Shades domestic abuse - London Live

Conservative MP Philip Davies said earlier this year that male victims should not be forgotten.

“When people think of domestic violence, they automatically think of men abusing women," he said. “But the vast increase in the number of women convicted of domestic violence over the past decade must not be overlooked."

Domestic abuse is defined as any incident, or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive, threatening behaviour, violence or abuse between those aged 16 or over who are, or have been, intimate partners or family members regardless of gender or sexuality.

It can also involve psychological, physical, sexual, financial or emotional abuse.