Theresa May's new economic adviser supported tax increases to pay down deficit
Theresa May's new economic adviser supported tax increases to pay down deficit
heresa May’s new economics adviser Douglas McNeill has argued to increase taxes to pay down deficit, potentially putting him on a collision course with Chancellor Philip Hammond. Mr McNeill – a former policy chief at the Conservative party - joined the Government as economic adviser to Theresa May last month, after a 10 year career in the City. Now The Sunday Telegraph can disclose that Mr McNeill argued in an article in 2009 that it was “unlikely that the deficit can be eliminated without tax increases. “And there are only two that would raise serious money: basic-rate income tax and value added tax.” r Hammond has so far declined to say how he will pay down the deficit, which he has promised to clear during the next decade. Last month in the Autumn statement Mr Hammond said the UK economy was "resilient" despite forecasts that government finances will be £122billion worse off than previously expected by 2020. r Hammond told MPs the UK's deficit would no longer be cleared by 2020 - with the target instead "as early as possible" afterwards. Mr McNeill was hired by Mrs May to give her economic advice last month. In his article in October 2009, Mr McNeill wrote how “tackling Britain's gargantuan fiscal deficit is not a job for the faint-hearted”. After arguing that the party should cut public sector pensions, he turned to personal taxation levels. e said: “Finally, caution is apparent in discussing tax increases. For now, the party is simply ruling nothing out. But it is unlikely that the deficit can be eliminated without tax increases. “And there are only two that would raise serious money: basic-rate income tax, and value added tax. “Happily, both are well understood by the public and would sit well with an electoral pitch based on "candour". That is where the logic of Conservative strategy now points.” n a series of other interventions during his time as a City analyst, Mr McNeill criticised the number of airports in the UK. In 2014 he suggested a cull in the number of regional airports, saying: “If Britain needed so many airports, they'd be much better used. “Many would never have been built in the first place had the military not bequeathed the basic facilities after the war.” A month earlier he warned about doing too many deals with the Chinese, saying: “Don't get carried away by the hype around China's plans. We should be wary of getting too reliant on Chinese money.” Mr McNeill was also a critic of the “exorbitant cost of motoring” and was critical of “rising petrol prices, insurance, road tax and repairs” increasing the cost of driving to work in early 2013. n that year he was also critical of spiralling executive pay at Barclays Bank, saying: “They won't be alone in wondering how on earth group performance over the period can justify whopping pay-outs to executives.” Mr McNeill also carried out research last year on driverless lorries and backed plans –unveiled last week by transport secretary Chris Grayling – to strip Network Rail of its monopoly over the UK’s railway tracks. A Downing Street source played down any conflcit between Mr McNeill and Mr Hammond. The source pointed out that the article on tax “was written in 2009. Importantly, our deficit reduction plans have changed since then”. The source added: “Douglas was clearly writing in a different context – he was not a Government employee at the time. Douglas has good relations with the Chancellor. “They worked together when Douglas was at the Conservative Research Department and Philip was shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury and shadow Work and Pensions secretary – so they are well known to one another and have previously had very good working relationship.” A source close to Mr Hammond said: "The Chancellor and Douglas get on very well." Mr Hammond had set out a "trajectory" of how the UK would clear the deficit by as early as possible in the next decade. On whether tax rises were needed to clear the deficit, the source said: "Tax and spending measures are for the Autumn statement and the Budget. We never comment on those kinds of things."

Theresa May’s new economics adviser Douglas McNeill has argued to increase taxes to pay down deficit, potentially putting him on a collision course with Chancellor Philip Hammond.

Mr McNeill – a former policy chief at the Conservative party - joined the Government as economic adviser to Theresa May last month, after a 10 year career in the City.

Now The Sunday Telegraph can disclose that Mr McNeill argued in an article in 2009 that it was “unlikely that the deficit can be eliminated without tax increases.

“And there are only two that would raise serious money: basic-rate income tax and value added tax.”