‘Duck Dynasty’ Producers Fired and Sued by ITV
‘Duck Dynasty’ Producers Fired and Sued by ITV
Reality ‘Duck Dynasty’ Producers Fired and Sued by ITV Deirdre and Scott Gurney, the producers of “Duck Dynasty,” have officially been terminated by ITV following a fraud investigation, and a claim has been filed in California Superior Court. “Following a meeting with Scott and Deirdre Gurney, the Board of Gurney Productions has been left with no alternative but to terminate their employment and file a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California on the grounds of self-dealing, fraudulent concealment and breach of contract,” according to a statement from a Gurney Productions spokesperson. “As announced on Monday, Emmy-winning producer Craig Armstrong has been appointed interim CEO of Gurney Productions and has the full ground support of ITV America’s senior team. Under his leadership, all Gurney Productions shows and development will continue to be produced by the company’s strong team of producers. Armstrong, along with his producing partner Rick Ringbakk, is co-founder and co-CEO of 5×5 Media, which continues to operate as before.” “It’s very much business as usual and our brilliant production team remains focused on making and delivering great shows.” More From Variety  TV Review: Syfy's 'Naked Vegas'   ITV Studios Forms U.S. Group, Taps Paul Buccieri to Lead   Discovery Finds Its Own 'Duck Dynasty' with 'Porter Ridge' (Exclusive)  More to come…  Best beach bodies of 2016   Review: 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story' is a superb action film   Newly single Joshua Jackson talks about getting back in the game   Reba McEntire rumored to be working on new TV show

Deirdre and Scott Gurney, the producers of “Duck Dynasty,” have officially been terminated by ITV following a fraud investigation, and a claim has been filed in California Superior Court.

“Following a meeting with Scott and Deirdre Gurney, the Board of Gurney Productions has been left with no alternative but to terminate their employment and file a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California on the grounds of self-dealing, fraudulent concealment and breach of contract,” according to a statement from a Gurney Productions spokesperson.

“As announced on Monday, Emmy-winning producer Craig Armstrong has been appointed interim CEO of Gurney Productions and has the full ground support of ITV America’s senior team. Under his leadership, all Gurney Productions shows and development will continue to be produced by the company’s strong team of producers. Armstrong, along with his producing partner Rick Ringbakk, is co-founder and co-CEO of 5×5 Media, which continues to operate as before.”

“It’s very much business as usual and our brilliant production team remains focused on making and delivering great shows.”

More to come…