Seriously exciting times: Australia just got its first direct flight to Europe
Seriously exciting times: Australia just got its first direct flight to Europe
Qantas has given long suffering Aussies an early Christmas present: The ability to fly from Australia to Europe without any exhausting stopovers. On Sunday, the local airline announced it would launch non-stop flights on the 787-9 Dreamliner from Perth to London. You may have to grit your teeth a little longer, though: The service isn't set to begin until March 2018. SEE ALSO: These striking photos showcase Australia's unique ecology For anyone who has undertaken the epic flight, lasting almost 24 hours, it's always been necessary to stop halfway in either Asia or the Middle East.Â Soon about 236 passengers per flight will be able to fly 14,498 kilometres (9,009 miles) without pause. The new route will take about 17 hours, and the airline believes it will be the third-longest passenger flight globally. At a press conference Sunday, Qantas CEO Alan Joyce called the news a "game changing route with a game changing aircraft." The service will be at least daily, Joyce said, and will save those flying from Perth about three hours in travel time. Ticket costs have yet to be announced. "When Qantas created the Kangaroo Route to London in 1947, it took four days and nine stops. Now it will take just 17 hours from Perth non-stop," Joyce said in a statement. "Australians have never had a direct link to Europe before, so the opportunities this opens up are huge." Admittedly, 17 hours is still a long time, so have your sleeping pills at the ready. BONUS: Stay among the coral reefs in this unique underwater hotel room

Qantas has given long suffering Aussies an early Christmas present: The ability to fly from Australia to Europe without any exhausting stopovers.

On Sunday, the local airline announced it would launch non-stop flights on the 787-9 Dreamliner from Perth to London. You may have to grit your teeth a little longer, though: The service isn't set to begin until March 2018.

For anyone who has undertaken the epic flight, lasting almost 24 hours, it's always been necessary to stop halfway in either Asia or the Middle East.Â

Soon about 236 passengers per flight will be able to fly 14,498 kilometres (9,009 miles) without pause. The new route will take about 17 hours, and the airline believes it will be the third-longest passenger flight globally.

At a press conference Sunday, Qantas CEO Alan Joyce called the news a "game changing route with a game changing aircraft."

The service will be at least daily, Joyce said, and will save those flying from Perth about three hours in travel time. Ticket costs have yet to be announced.

"When Qantas created the Kangaroo Route to London in 1947, it took four days and nine stops. Now it will take just 17 hours from Perth non-stop," Joyce said in a statement.

"Australians have never had a direct link to Europe before, so the opportunities this opens up are huge."

Admittedly, 17 hours is still a long time, so have your sleeping pills at the ready.