Be It European Refugee-Crisis Or Indo-Pak Relations, People Need To Talk It Out, Says Anoushka Shankar
Be It The Refugee-Crisis Or Indo-Pak Issues, People Need To Talk It Out, Says Anoushka Shankar
Be It European Refugee-Crisis Or Indo-Pak Relations, People Need To Talk It Out, Says Anoushka Shankar Being a new mother and seeing Europe's refugee crisis escalate sowed the seed for Anoushka Shankar's latest album, but more than a year since, the sitarist's music has found resonance with many global events - Brexit, Donald Trump's promise of building a wall and then becoming president, and even the heightened tension between India and Pakistan. She agrees that in times of war, art becomes secondary, but stresses that there has to be a cultural exchange between the two countries for things to reach somewhere good. Nominated for a Grammy for the sixth time, she is in Delhi while touring in India with her sons Zubin (five) and Mohan (almost two), but hasn't been able to show them the capital because of the smog. And oh, touring with kids can be very glamorous, she reveals, especially when you arrive covered in vomit without even realising it! Excerpts: You've said the birth of your second son coinciding with the escalation of the refugee crisis inspired your latest album. You have also said how the images of Aylan Kurdi (the Syrian toddler who washed up dead on a Turkish beach) influenced your title song. That image solidified the issue for lots of people around the world, for whom it was just a headline before. Did it do that for you as well? It made me weep. But I was already making this album, before that image. The whole summer was such an escalation of that crisis. The day that image was out everywhere, was the day that we ended up recording the song 'Land Of Gold', which really crystallised and became the centre and the title. So we wrote the song based on that, in response to the horrible images of him, but the album as a whole was in response to this overall feeling of injustice and just the imbalance in the world, and this feeling that millions of people 'have', and millions of people 'don't have'. And how, it's like a lottery, and how unfair that is. And just trying to make sense of it and trying to express my feelings about that. Do you think the album wouldn't have come about, or come about the same if you were not a parent? Being a parent is so central to who I am, and everything I do is a product of who I am. So it's hard to dissect and separate. But there was something very particular about being a new parent again. It's a very vulnerable, very open time period. It's so... primitive and so raw. And so there was a way in which I had no emotional barriers the same way. You know, sometimes we're more sensitive than other times. And I think, having such a huge humanitarian crisis coincide with a personal event for me, that contrast was too big to bear, really. The idea that there were so many other mothers, just simply trying to have the same thing for their children that I was able to have for my child, and just the wrongness of that. As a young person, images of children on the news, in poverty, would make me sad, but not in the same way. Once you're a parent, every child looks like your child, it's completely different. Since then, the refugee crisis boiled over into several trajectories around the world - it got leaders to step down, might affect the re-election of others, and contributed to Donald Trump's victory. When you were writing your music, did you think the issue would have such a ping-pong effect? Yes, in the sense that it's about injustice, in general, and there has always been so much inequality. We wrote this song called 'Dissolving Boundaries', and then when we were on tour in North America, Trump made his first thing about building the wall between America and Mexico. And so suddenly, this idea of dissolving boundaries became about that wall to me. But it wasn't when we wrote it, it was about the Hungarian border, that wall. And so it feels like all around the world, people are talking about building up walls and isolating people, and this album is basically about breaking walls down and about connecting and... you know, here, is another area to talk about the same thing. We are trying to build up walls with our neighbours, and I don't feel like that ever reaches anywhere good. It's only through empathy and connection that you can have peace. That's universal, and timeless, really. We had a terrorist attack very recently, and the debate around a cultural exchange between India and Pakistan has been pretty charged. Do you think in times like this, art naturally has to take a backseat?

Being a new mother and seeing Europe's refugee crisis escalate sowed the seed for Anoushka Shankar's latest album, but more than a year since, the sitarist's music has found resonance with many global events - Brexit, Donald Trump's promise of building a wall and then becoming president, and even the heightened tension between India and Pakistan.

Reuters

She agrees that in times of war, art becomes secondary, but stresses that there has to be a cultural exchange between the two countries for things to reach somewhere good. Nominated for a Grammy for the sixth time, she is in Delhi while touring in India with her sons Zubin (five) and Mohan (almost two), but hasn't been able to show them the capital because of the smog. And oh, touring with kids can be very glamorous, she reveals, especially when you arrive covered in vomit without even realising it! Excerpts:

You've said the birth of your second son coinciding with the escalation of the refugee crisis inspired your latest album. You have also said how the images of Aylan Kurdi (the Syrian toddler who washed up dead on a Turkish beach) influenced your title song.

That image solidified the issue for lots of people around the world, for whom it was just a headline before. Did it do that for you as well?

It made me weep. But I was already making this album, before that image. The whole summer was such an escalation of that crisis. The day that image was out everywhere, was the day that we ended up recording the song 'Land Of Gold', which really crystallised and became the centre and the title. So we wrote the song based on that, in response to the horrible images of him, but the album as a whole was in response to this overall feeling of injustice and just the imbalance in the world, and this feeling that millions of people 'have', and millions of people 'don't have'. And how, it's like a lottery, and how unfair that is. And just trying to make sense of it and trying to express my feelings about that.

Do you think the album wouldn't have come about, or come about the same if you were not a parent?

Reuters

Being a parent is so central to who I am, and everything I do is a product of who I am. So it's hard to dissect and separate. But there was something very particular about being a new parent again. It's a very vulnerable, very open time period. It's so... primitive and so raw.

And so there was a way in which I had no emotional barriers the same way. You know, sometimes we're more sensitive than other times. And I think, having such a huge humanitarian crisis coincide with a personal event for me, that contrast was too big to bear, really.

The idea that there were so many other mothers, just simply trying to have the same thing for their children that I was able to have for my child, and just the wrongness of that. As a young person, images of children on the news, in poverty, would make me sad, but not in the same way. Once you're a parent, every child looks like your child, it's completely different.

Since then, the refugee crisis boiled over into several trajectories around the world - it got leaders to step down, might affect the re-election of others, and contributed to Donald Trump's victory. When you were writing your music, did you think the issue would have such a ping-pong effect?

Yes, in the sense that it's about injustice, in general, and there has always been so much inequality. We wrote this song called 'Dissolving Boundaries', and then when we were on tour in North America, Trump made his first thing about building the wall between America and Mexico.

And so suddenly, this idea of dissolving boundaries became about that wall to me. But it wasn't when we wrote it, it was about the Hungarian border, that wall. And so it feels like all around the world, people are talking about building up walls and isolating people, and this album is basically about breaking walls down and about connecting and... you know, here, is another area to talk about the same thing. We are trying to build up walls with our neighbours, and I don't feel like that ever reaches anywhere good. It's only through empathy and connection that you can have peace. That's universal, and timeless, really.

We had a terrorist attack very recently, and the debate around a cultural exchange between India and Pakistan has been pretty charged. Do you think in times like this, art naturally has to take a backseat?

Reuters

Well, that's always the case, isn't it? If you look at Maslow's hierarchy of needs, right, it's always about survival first. That will always be the case. Obviously, life and death are more important than art, but - art is essential for the human soul. And I think art is a place where human beings across the world are able to reach higher parts of their consciousness, and it's from that raised level of consciousness that we are able to be our best selves. So I think it plays a part in raising us as humanity, to our best possible place.

Do you think then that we should have cultural exchanges with Pakistan?

Reuters

We should always have conversations and exchanges. Look what's happened now, when you talk about Trump, this thing of echo chambers - it's like we all have friends on Facebook that agree with us, and so we all hit 'like' and we all hit 'share' and we think it's all fine, and then suddenly everyone gets bludgeoned and shocked.

It happened with Brexit as well, where up until the day it happened, nobody expected it. For me, if you think of things on a macro scale, it's the same as on a micro scale. What would you say to a husband and wife? If they have an awkward problem, do they just bury it under the carpet? Or is it better to have the awkward conversation, even if it's a little bit ugly, or a bit of a fight, or there's tears or it's scary, 'coz that's where you understand each other, and that's where you heal?

So the same thing happens on a larger scale. People have to be able to connect, you have to be able to understand your differences, and then from there you can go somewhere different. If we just start shutting doors down and not talk to each other, then you're just propagating the same ideas again and again.

What was your reaction to Donald Trump's victory? Were you shocked too?

Reuters

I think Brexit was a shock, and from there Trump was as devastating, but it wasn't a shock. Because you can see what's happening in the world right now, it's a global thing. There's a big shift to the right, and it's scary.

Trump hasn't been very kind to the two causes you have stood up for - women and minorities. How disturbing is that? That his voice reaches far more people than an artist could hope to reach with their music?

Reuters

I don't have the answer to that, I only have the hope for that. One never knows what's going to happen, I wanna try and be on the right side of history, and of my conscience. So where I can use my voice, I'll use my voice, where I can use my art, I'll use my art. If that does something, great, if it doesn't I tried my best. But I do think that numbers make a big difference. As artists, it is our responsibility to collectively use voices and not feel that fear.

Living in London, how directly have you felt the refugee crisis?

Keenly. It's hard to answer because it's happening over there, and it's coming to us. We're just feeling the feeling of people trying to come to safety. But I've been terribly ashamed of the British government, for the way it's been dealing with it. I was part of a couple of letters that were written to the British government and got published, and part of a movement to sponsor children who are coming into the UK. Especially with unaccompanied minors, the way we've been acting is horrific and shameful.

Post Brexit, is there a palpable anti-immigrant sentiment? Perhaps not so much for you, but for someone who takes the bus or the tube to work?

I take the bus and the tube to work (laughs)! Yeah, the weekend of Brexit, my mum's assistant got shouted out and told to go back to 'her effing country'. It's definitely happening. London, as the cosmopolitan, international city, was cushioned to some extent. It's not as bad in London as it has been in other places. But you feel it. Most of the people I know - again, talking about echo chambers - but most of them feel like I do, everyone's horrified and everyone's reaching out even more. So you see a real beautiful, kind of counter-movement of people wanting to make minorities feel welcome.

You previously wrote a song for Nirbhaya and joined the whole gender-equality movement that followed, and now you're addressing the next big issue. Is your music moving into the activism space?

Reuters

Yes, and at the same time, I have no idea what the next few albums might be, it might be something very personal again. But I think activism is increasingly a part of my life, and so as a musician it makes sense that it's also coming out of my music. I think ultimately, it's more about growing up, in the sense that a lot of my thoughts about my music-making before were like, trying to send the right message, what did people expect of me, who did people think I was. And the older I'm getting, the less I care about all of that, and it's more about, just, playing - this is what I feel, this is my truth, this is who I am, this is what I want to say. And I think that kind of courage enables a stronger message. Because you have to take a stand to make a statement, which takes knowing yourself and being sure of yourself. A couple of benefits to getting a little older!

How crazy is touring with two little boys?

Well, I got vomited on about six times on our way to Delhi! It's very glamorous, touring that way. My little one gets carsick actually, I have to plan very carefully, but we had to get here. I got to the first city and realised my hoodie was completely covered in vomit. I just hadn't noticed. Yeah, it's very glamorous!

Have you taken them around to see Delhi?

Aaah, what do you say? I've effectively wanted to keep them in the house since they got here because it's terrible. They went out yesterday and they started coughing. In one year, the difference is shocking, I've never seen such a big decline in air quality. There are so many things I'd love to show them, but the air is so bad that I'm scared.

You were just nominated for the sixth time for a Grammy. What do you think of your chances this time?

Reuters

It's 20%, like always! There are five people. Being nominated is great, but I've seen people be nominated up to 27 times who haven't won before. No one owes you anything. So I just try and stay focused on like, ultimately, doing the work. I'm really happy, but I just try and not get my hopes up because if it doesn't happen, you don't want to be disappointed.