Trading Up: Billionaire Herb Chambers Happily Builds And Sells Yachts
Trading Up: Billionaire Herb Chambers Happily Builds And Sells Yachts
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Daniel Fisher       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Excellence V is the latest of a string of yachts Herb Chambers has built mainly for the charter trade. Herb Chambers is passionate about his motor yachts, but not to the point of getting too emotionally attached. Starting with a 30-foot Trojan fishing boat in 1970, the billionaire car dealer has moved steadily up in size and luxury, from a 53-foot Hatteras to his current yachts, a 93-foot Italian Pershing for his personal use and a 60-meter (197-foot) luxury cruiser by German builder Abeking & Rasmussen he keeps in the charter trade. Next up: he’s commissioned a 262-footer now under construction at A&R that he says will be a cross between Russian billionaire Andrey Melnichenko’s polarizing yacht `A’ – “I really like it, but 75% of the people dislike that boat, they think it looks like a submarine,” Chambers said – and a more traditional boat. He's shy about sharing too many details about the incomplete yacht but it will have a vertical destroyer-style bow and exotic exterior styling with a more traditional, luxurious interior. “I get more enjoyment out of building the boats than I do using them,” Chambers said. Boats typically take 3-5 years to build and cost $50,000 per foot at the high-end German and Dutch yards. He could build his boats in cheaper yards in Turkey or Asia, he explains, but prefers the fit and finish of the interior woodwork crafted by A&R and Dutch builder Feadship. “There’s a certain value to the pedigree of either the Dutch or German boats,” he said. His ideal length is 60 meters, the maximum for destinations like Nantucket, St. Bart’s and San Tropez. His favorite spot is Capri. At some point, his passion for yachts and interest in building them turned into not just a pricey hobby but one where he could actually make a little money.  It was with the 127-foot Feadship Excellence, completed in 1986, that he started chartering his boats. “There was a transition where it became a business for me,” he said, due to the radically higher cost of operating multimillion-dollar yachts. Since then he’s done well building, chartering and selling yachts, often for a profit, including a 257-footer he commissioned from Abeking & Rasmussen and flipped to a Russian oligarch shortly before completion in 2007. “I did well on that one,” he said. His Excellence V is in the charter trade for $700,000 a week, but what with moving it around and maintenance he can only rent it 12-15 weeks a year. There’s usually a good market for boats under construction, for “very wealthy people who just don’t want to wait.” Nothing is sacred: his Italian Pershing is currently on the market for $9 million. This Italian-built Pershing is Chambers' personal yacht. Like all his boats, it's available for a price. Chambers, a former Navy seaman, made his first fortune building A Copy, then the world's largest copier dealer, which he sold for about $80 million in 1983 to Ikon Office Solutions. He then built a chain of 55 auto dealerships in New England that sell about $2 billion a year worth of cars. Forbes estimates his net worth to be $1.35 billion .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Herb Chambers is passionate about his motor yachts, but not to the point of getting too emotionally attached. Starting with a 30-foot Trojan fishing boat in 1970, the billionaire car dealer has moved steadily up in size and luxury, from a 53-foot Hatteras to his current yachts, a 93-foot Italian Pershing for his personal use and a 60-meter (197-foot) luxury cruiser by German builder Abeking & Rasmussen he keeps in the charter trade.

Next up: he’s commissioned a 262-footer now under construction at A&R that he says will be a cross between Russian billionaire Andrey Melnichenko’s polarizing yacht `A’ – “I really like it, but 75% of the people dislike that boat, they think it looks like a submarine,” Chambers said – and a more traditional boat. He's shy about sharing too many details about the incomplete yacht but it will have a vertical destroyer-style bow and exotic exterior styling with a more traditional, luxurious interior.

“I get more enjoyment out of building the boats than I do using them,” Chambers said. Boats typically take 3-5 years to build and cost $50,000 per foot at the high-end German and Dutch yards. He could build his boats in cheaper yards in Turkey or Asia, he explains, but prefers the fit and finish of the interior woodwork crafted by A&R and Dutch builder Feadship. “There’s a certain value to the pedigree of either the Dutch or German boats,” he said. His ideal length is 60 meters, the maximum for destinations like Nantucket, St. Bart’s and San Tropez. His favorite spot is Capri.

At some point, his passion for yachts and interest in building them turned into not just a pricey hobby but one where he could actually make a little money. It was with the 127-foot Feadship Excellence, completed in 1986, that he started chartering his boats. “There was a transition where it became a business for me,” he said, due to the radically higher cost of operating multimillion-dollar yachts. Since then he’s done well building, chartering and selling yachts, often for a profit, including a 257-footer he commissioned from Abeking & Rasmussen and flipped to a Russian oligarch shortly before completion in 2007. “I did well on that one,” he said. His Excellence V is in the charter trade for $700,000 a week, but what with moving it around and maintenance he can only rent it 12-15 weeks a year.

There’s usually a good market for boats under construction, for “very wealthy people who just don’t want to wait.” Nothing is sacred: his Italian Pershing is currently on the market for $9 million.

Chambers, a former Navy seaman, made his first fortune building A Copy, then the world's largest copier dealer, which he sold for about $80 million in 1983 to Ikon Office Solutions. He then built a chain of 55 auto dealerships in New England that sell about $2 billion a year worth of cars. Forbes estimates his net worth to be $1.35 billion.