Said & Done: ‘I am only guilty of one thing: protecting Leeds United’

Quote of the week – reacting to his third ethics ban in two years, one of them overturned: “I am not guilty. I feel that I’m only guilty of one thing: protecting Leeds United since I took charge.” Defending Cellino, who was dubbed a man of “marked criminal tendencies capable of using every kind of deception” in a 2013 Italian arrest warrant – former Leeds owner , putting the breach of regulations down to “ ignorance, not misdemeanours … Italian ways are so different and when he came he had nobody [to advise him] … Foreigners are seen as an easy target for the con men.” Man of the week , South Africa FA president and Fifa Fair Play and Social Responsibility executive, hosts a two-day Interpol “ Integrity in Sport ” workshop - attacking match-fixing as “ a cancer that robs the game of its innocence . This is a wonderful chance to learn more about this threat.” Nematandani banned for five years for match-fixing. Also cleaning up: Uganda’s , run by Interpol director Asan Kasingye, sacking two players for fixing. Kasingye: “There is vice in our club.” Meanwhile: more football family news Russia’s deputy prime minister – member of Fifa’s integrity committee and its “ For the Good of the Game ” anti-corruption taskforce – denying he oversaw “unprecedented” state-sponsored doping : “This is another attack on Russian sport.” Extradited former Peru FA head , released on bail on disputed fraud and racketeering charges, pictured out shopping in Manhattan . “I’m really feeling relaxed. I have my lawyer here with me.” And – looking for the positives after losing an appeal against his six-year ban: “I have experienced much in my 41 years in Fifa ... I look back with gratitude to all the years, in which I was able to realise my ideals.” Other news: kicking it out Lazio’s , denying he deliberately used a racist street-pedlar stereotype after saying Roma’s Antonio Rüdiger “ used to sell socks and belts in Stuttgart”. Lulic: “White people sell socks too.” Assessing Lulic for a potential extended ban: Italy FA head , who launched his “Racists? A bad race” zero-tolerance campaign in 2015 - a year after he called a black player a “ banana eater ”. Tavecchio, who served a six-month ban, denied racism. Sharpest protest – back as Bayern president after serving 18 months for a €28.5m tax fraud – unhappy with English football taking an “unfair” financial advantage from TV rights: “There’s no longer a level playing field.” Manager news: l  – Darmstadt president Rüdiger Fritsch on coach Norbert Meier. “Listen, if sacking a coach guaranteed success, every club would do it every four weeks. Studies show 99.1% of the time it achieves nothing. Other clubs around us did it and did it help them? No. It’s not a panacea like people think. Calmness and consistency – that’s the answer.” – Sacks him .  , Altrincham chairman : “ After due diligence and a lot of discussion , the board felt that Jim Harvey was the No1 candidate to steady the ship ... He presented a long-term plan.” “ Jim was very disappointed when I told him .” Plus: , joining Chinese second-tier club Shenzhen FC for “ a new challenge ”. (2010, agent Athole Still: “For so long the media have tried to portray Sven as a greedy man, that he’s only in it for the money. Nothing could be further from the truth.”) Fewest excuses Sarmiento Ayacucho president Carlos Didio, banned from his own ground for alleged death threats to a referee who was beaten by players and fans . Didio: “We’re all about football at this club, not violence. No excuses. But referees hurt us, too.” Best impact Cardiff’s : clashing with Neil Warnock after being sent off on Saturday, two weeks after Warnock hailed his impact : “I wouldn’t want anyone else. I don’t think there’s anyone better. He’s got it all.” Rough week for Cluj striker , booked for a foul, sent off for applauding the booking, hospitalised with a torn tendon after punching through a glass door , and “heavily fined for stupidity”. Coach Vasile Miriuta: “He wasn’t being professional.” Plus: most resilient Vatera striker , weighing up the global attention after his 30cm miss went viral . “In that moment I suffered overconfidence and lost my balance. But I can handle these comments. I’ve committed no crime.” Topics  Massimo Cellino   Fifa   Football politics

Quote of the week

Leeds United’s owner Massimo Cellino banned for 18 months by FA Read more

Massimo Cellino – reacting to his third ethics ban in two years, one of them overturned: “I am not guilty. I feel that I’m only guilty of one thing: protecting Leeds United since I took charge.”

• Defending Cellino, who was dubbed a man of “marked criminal tendencies capable of using every kind of deception” in a 2013 Italian arrest warrant – former Leeds owner Ken Bates, putting the breach of regulations down to “ignorance, not misdemeanours … Italian ways are so different and when he came he had nobody [to advise him] … Foreigners are seen as an easy target for the con men.”

Man of the week

Aug 2012: Kirsten Nematandani, South Africa FA president and Fifa Fair Play and Social Responsibility executive, hosts a two-day Interpol “Integrity in Sport” workshop - attacking match-fixing as “a cancer that robs the game of its innocence. This is a wonderful chance to learn more about this threat.”

Dec 2016: Nematandani banned for five years for match-fixing.

• Also cleaning up: Uganda’s Police Football Club, run by Interpol director Asan Kasingye, sacking two players for fixing. Kasingye: “There is vice in our club.”

Meanwhile: more football family news

• Russia’s deputy prime minister Vitaly Mutko – member of Fifa’s integrity committee and its “For the Good of the Game” anti-corruption taskforce – denying he oversaw “unprecedented” state-sponsored doping: “This is another attack on Russian sport.”

• Extradited former Peru FA head Manuel Burga, released on bail on disputed fraud and racketeering charges, pictured out shopping in Manhattan. “I’m really feeling relaxed. I have my lawyer here with me.”

• And Sepp Blatter – looking for the positives after losing an appeal against his six-year ban: “I have experienced much in my 41 years in Fifa ... I look back with gratitude to all the years, in which I was able to realise my ideals.”

Not such a beautiful game: Lazio v Roma derby descends into disrepute | Paolo Bandini Read more

Other news: kicking it out

Italy: Lazio’s Senad Lulic, denying he deliberately used a racist street-pedlar stereotype after saying Roma’s Antonio Rüdiger “used to sell socks and belts in Stuttgart”. Lulic: “White people sell socks too.”

• Assessing Lulic for a potential extended ban: Italy FA head Carlo Tavecchio, who launched his “Racists? A bad race” zero-tolerance campaign in 2015 - a year after he called a black player a “banana eater”. Tavecchio, who served a six-month ban, denied racism.

Sharpest protest

Germany: Uli Hoeness – back as Bayern president after serving 18 months for a €28.5m tax fraud – unhappy with English football taking an “unfair” financial advantage from TV rights: “There’s no longer a level playing field.”

Manager news: last week’s moves

• Germany, 29 Nov – Darmstadt president Rüdiger Fritsch on coach Norbert Meier. “Listen, if sacking a coach guaranteed success, every club would do it every four weeks. Studies show 99.1% of the time it achieves nothing. Other clubs around us did it and did it help them? No. It’s not a panacea like people think. Calmness and consistency – that’s the answer.” 6 Dec – Sacks him.

• 5 Sept, Altrincham chairman Grahame Rowley: “After due diligence and a lot of discussion, the board felt that Jim Harvey was the No1 candidate to steady the ship ... He presented a long-term plan.” 6 Dec: “Jim was very disappointed when I told him.”

• Plus: Sven-Goran Eriksson, joining Chinese second-tier club Shenzhen FC for “a new challenge”. (2010, agent Athole Still: “For so long the media have tried to portray Sven as a greedy man, that he’s only in it for the money. Nothing could be further from the truth.”)

Said & Done: ‘He used the word 'party'. Party? What sort of party is this?’ Read more

Fewest excuses

Argentina: Sarmiento Ayacucho president Carlos Didio, banned from his own ground for alleged death threats to a referee who was beaten by players and fans. Didio: “We’re all about football at this club, not violence. No excuses. But referees hurt us, too.”

Best impact

Cardiff’s Sol Bamba: clashing with Neil Warnock after being sent off on Saturday, two weeks after Warnock hailed his impact: “I wouldn’t want anyone else. I don’t think there’s anyone better. He’s got it all.”

Rough week for

Romania: Cluj striker Billel Omrani, booked for a foul, sent off for applauding the booking, hospitalised with a torn tendon after punching through a glass door, and “heavily fined for stupidity”. Coach Vasile Miriuta: “He wasn’t being professional.”

Plus: most resilient

Greece: Vatera striker Thanasis Takidis, weighing up the global attention after his 30cm miss went viral. “In that moment I suffered overconfidence and lost my balance. But I can handle these comments. I’ve committed no crime.”