26 Quirks Americans Don’t Realize Are Super Weird
26 Quirks Americans Don't Realize Are Super Weird
Restaurants that serve ice in your water no matter the weather. Hot, cold, it doesn’t matter! But really, when there are more ice cubes in the glass than actual water, you start to question the rationale behind it all. Air conditioning. Everywhere. All the time. In the summer, you go from a sweltering 103 degrees outside to an eyelash-icicle–inducing -17 in the supermarkets. The nightmare that is tipping. So you’re telling me that you have to leave a tip even if the service was mediocre, and then you also have to calculate said tip between 10 and 20% of the bill’s total to figure out how much you’re expected to leave?? Nope. The ungodly portion sizes at restaurants. Ordering a large with @Cookie_133 may have been a mistake... #nypizza #americanportions One American meal is enough to feed a whole French family for a week. The waiters who come back to check on you every three minutes. Waiter: is everything ok with your food?
Me: If it wasn’t okay, we would say something! Waiters refilling your glass as soon as the water dips below the halfway point. Why not just leave a jug of water on the table? Everybody’s lives would be a whole lot easier. We can serve ourselves! Pharmacies that also sell candy, soda, cigarettes, beer…. The size of the cars. American Car vs. European Car And the highways are just as supersized. Three-liter wine bottles. hahaha more wine, 2 three liter bottles and 1 six liter bottle #WineFreaks And sometimes six! Being asked for your ID when you enter a bar or buy a beer, even though you are clearly over 30 years old.  View on Instagram Strangers smiling at you. In the street, at the supermarket. EVERYWHERE. People wearing workout clothes when they’re not at the gym and flip flops when they’re not at the beach. People who go to the store in their pajamas. There is something endearing and remarkable about really not giving any fucks. The currency all looks the same.  View on Instagram What’s a $1, what’s a $5, who knows? They’re all the same size and the same color. It makes no sense. TV shows with commercial breaks that last longer than some scenes. On American TV, a 40-minute episode actually lasts an hour with all the commercials. That’s 20 minutes of my life I’ll never get back… Prices are always displayed without tax. That bracelet you wanted because it was “such a deal”? Yeah, not so much once they add in the tax at checkout. Stores and restaurants that are open 24/7. People who fill your bags at the supermarket. When someone says “how are you?” but they really mean “hello” and actually DGAF how you are. Flags. Everywhere. Just in case you’ve forgotten what country you’re in. People who drink their coffee while walking. Coffee is meant to be savored while sitting on a terrace, not chugged as you rush from meeting to meeting. Deep-fried food covered with sauces galore. The price of cheese.  View on Instagram Twelve dollars a slice? Really? Being able to use your debit card without entering your PIN, just with your signature.  View on Instagram A bit risky, no? This travesty they have the audacity to call “French bread.” #hot #french #bread lol I baked it myself #Safeway And unadjustable showerheads. How the heck am I supposed to rinse down under with this thing, huh?   19 Life-Changing Things Anna Kendrick Tweeted In 2016...    Can You Guess The Romance Movie From Just Three Emojis?...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.