UBSVoice: Do You Live In An Expensive City?
UBSVoice: Do You Live In An Expensive City?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  UBS       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. What’s the relative cost of goods and services worldwide? Zurich, Geneva and New York City have the highest prices, over 2.5 times higher than those in Bucharest, Sofia and Kiev, with the lowest. Istanbul, Doha and Lyon are middle-ranking cities; prices there are somewhat closer to those of high-ranking cities than to those of lower ranked ones. You do if you live in New York. When rents are included in the price level index, almost all city indices decrease in relation to New York City, with an average decrease of 17 percent. Hong Kong is the only exception, gaining over 5 percent due to high rents, and moving up 13 spots in our ranking. Rents also help make New York City the most expensive city, and Sofia the least expensive. Price levels including rents show how large an impact rents have on monthly spending. Assuming similar incomes, residents of Hong Kong must allocate almost 8 percent more of their income to housing than those in New York City. By comparison, residents in Zurich spend almost 8 percent less on rent than New York City residents. * New York City = Index 100 For more information, visit us at ubs.com/together . The composition of reference basket of goods and services represents the spending habits of a three-person European family. The prices of the 122 goods and services are weighted by monthly consumption. For example, that a family in Europe consumes almost 15 kilos (33 pounds) of vegetables every month, but only buys a new personal computer every 2.5 years. Price level calculations are based on the cost of a basket of 122 goods and services including rent. For index, these reference basket prices are shown as relative to reference city, New York City. Rent values were calculated by weighting the prices of three types of housing equally.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

What’s the relative cost of goods and services worldwide? Zurich, Geneva and New York City have the highest prices, over 2.5 times higher than those in Bucharest, Sofia and Kiev, with the lowest. Istanbul, Doha and Lyon are middle-ranking cities; prices there are somewhat closer to those of high-ranking cities than to those of lower ranked ones.

What about you? Do you live in an expensive city?

You do, if you live in New York. When rents are included in the price level index, almost all city indices decrease in relation to New York City, with an average decrease of 17 percent. Hong Kong is the only exception, gaining over 5 percent due to high rents, and moving up 13 spots in our ranking.

Rents also help make New York City the most expensive city, and Sofia the least expensive. Price levels including rents show how large an impact rents have on monthly spending. Assuming similar incomes, residents of Hong Kong must allocate almost 8 percent more of their income to housing than those in New York City. By comparison, residents in Zurich spend almost 8 percent less on rent than New York City residents.

* New York City = Index 100

For more information, visit us at ubs.com/together.

This material originally appeared in UBS, Prices and earnings 2015: https://www.ubs.com/microsites/prices-earnings/prices-earnings.html

Methodology

The composition of the reference basket of goods and services represents the spending habits of a three-person European family. The prices of the 122 goods and services are weighted by monthly consumption. For example, it’s assumed that a family in Europe consumes almost 15 kilos (33 pounds) of vegetables every month, but only buys a new personal computer every 2.5 years. Price level calculations are based on the cost of a basket of 122 goods and services including rent. For the index, these reference basket prices are shown as relative to the reference city, New York City. Rent values were calculated by weighting the prices of the three types of housing equally.