Trump Campaign Manager Conway Leads Christmas Parade
Trump Campaign Manager Conway Leads Christmas Parade
Shares                Republican President-elect Donald Trump's campaign manager returned to her native New Jersey on Saturday and asked a parade crowd to "pray for our outgoing president and vice president" and "our new president and vice president." Kellyanne Conway was grand marshal of the Christmas parade in Hammonton, where Trump topped Democrat Hillary Clinton in the November presidential election . She mostly steered clear of politics during her brief remarks. She asked attendees to "do something special this holiday season," and offered suggestions, including writing a thank you note to a soldier and buying a coat for someone in need. "Spread the real cheer and the generosity and the sheer love that comes from being in Hammonton," she said. The Hammonton Fire Department said Conway was raised in Atco and graduated from St. Joseph's High School in Hammonton in 1985. She spent summers working at Indian Brand Blueberry Farms before leaving for college in Washington, D.C. The group South Jersey Antifa, which bills itself as an anti-fascist organization, had said it planned to protest what it views as the politicization of the parade. However, protesters were hard to find, the Press of Atlantic City reported. The group said Conway is not an "acceptable role model." Conway regularly makes media appearances on behalf of Trump and has even been spoofed on "Saturday Night Live." A memorable skit about her day off shows her free time interrupted repeatedly by having to go on CNN to explain Trump's latest tweet or statement. Shares                  Trump Campaign Manager Conway Leads Christmas Parade   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Cosby Judge to Weigh Potential Testimony of 13 Other Women   2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested   Man Who Fired Shots in DC Pizza Parlor Expected in Court   Lufthansa Flight Diverted to NY After Threat: Officials   Google, Cuba Sign Deal Allowing Faster Access to Company's Data   Propane Gas Leak Being Considered in NY Home Explosion   Suspect in Egypt Chapel Bombing Had 2014 Run-in With Police   Pro-Kurd Party Members Arrested in Wake of Istanbul Bombings   6 Months Later, 49 Killed at Pulse Are Remembered in Orlando   David Beckham Is 'Very Proud' to Be UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador   Boy Dies in Santa's Arms After Receiving Early Christmas Present   Inside the Russian Hacking Scandal and Trump's Election   Timeline of Russia's Hacking Into US Political Groups Before Election   Russia: Hacking Allegations Have 'Nothing to Do With Reality'   Big Gold Theft From Armored Truck in France; 4 on the Run   Christmas Delivery at Space Station, Courtesy of Japan   2 Univ. of Louisville Football Players Shot at Heisman Celebration   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now

Republican President-elect Donald Trump's campaign manager returned to her native New Jersey on Saturday and asked a parade crowd to "pray for our outgoing president and vice president" and "our new president and vice president."

Kellyanne Conway was grand marshal of the Christmas parade in Hammonton, where Trump topped Democrat Hillary Clinton in the November presidential election.

She mostly steered clear of politics during her brief remarks. She asked attendees to "do something special this holiday season," and offered suggestions, including writing a thank you note to a soldier and buying a coat for someone in need.

"Spread the real cheer and the generosity and the sheer love that comes from being in Hammonton," she said.

The Hammonton Fire Department said Conway was raised in Atco and graduated from St. Joseph's High School in Hammonton in 1985. She spent summers working at Indian Brand Blueberry Farms before leaving for college in Washington, D.C.

The group South Jersey Antifa, which bills itself as an anti-fascist organization, had said it planned to protest what it views as the politicization of the parade. However, protesters were hard to find, the Press of Atlantic City reported.

The group said Conway is not an "acceptable role model."

Conway regularly makes media appearances on behalf of Trump and has even been spoofed on "Saturday Night Live." A memorable skit about her day off shows her free time interrupted repeatedly by having to go on CNN to explain Trump's latest tweet or statement.