X Factor Final 2016: Louis Tomlinson Performs Emotional Tribute To His Late Mum, Johanna Deakin
X Factor Final 2016: Louis Tomlinson Performs Emotional Tribute To His Late Mum, Johanna Deakin
Soz, X Factor finalists. We love you and everything but tonight’s show was about one man, and one man alone. One Direction star Louis Tomlinson. As well all know by now, Louis sadly lost his beautiful and beloved mum, Johanna, this week. The 42-year-old lost her battle to leukaemia on Wednesday. One of Johanna’s last wishes was to see her son perform as a solo artist on X Factor which, in case you didn’t know (as if), was the show that made him famous – alongside Liam Payne, Harry Styles, Niall Horan and Zayn Malik. And didn’t he do her proud, eh? After a teeny, tiny delay – where we wondered if (understandably) his emotions had been too much – he got up on stage AT FREAKING WEMBLEY and performed a majestic rendition of his debut solo single, Just Hold On, which is rumoured to be about his mama. Mega weep. The Directioners got behind Lou in the best way a fandom possibly could, getting both #ProudofLouis and #JustHoldOn trending on Twitter. And his army of fans were praising his bravery online. i have so much respect for louis — bella (@wokeluhan) December 10, 2016 No words can explain what I'm feeling for this boy. All my love and support goes out to him. Stay strong love❤️❤️❤️ @Louis_Tomlinson  pic.twitter.com/JyScOYlp8w — Dionne (@louisxsivan) December 10, 2016  @Louis_Tomlinson What you did today was extremely brave love, we are very very proud of you. Stay strong #ProudOfLouis — X adores H ✨ (@Hxppily_Narry) December 10, 2016   You get the idea. There’s A LOT of love. His X Factor mentor, Simon Cowell, even had a few words to say. He told Louis: “What you’ve just done, I respect you as an artist, I respect you as a person and your mum was so looking forward to tonight, she’s looking down on you and she’s so proud.” So, we were in total floods of tears. Louis, darling just hold on. We’re all so proud of you tonight. <3 <3 <3 <3

Soz, X Factor finalists. We love you and everything but tonight’s show was about one man, and one man alone. One Direction star Louis Tomlinson.

As well all know by now, Louis sadly lost his beautiful and beloved mum, Johanna, this week. The 42-year-old lost her battle to leukaemia on Wednesday.

View photos Louis Tomlinson More

One of Johanna’s last wishes was to see her son perform as a solo artist on X Factor which, in case you didn’t know (as if), was the show that made him famous – alongside Liam Payne, Harry Styles, Niall Horan and Zayn Malik.

View photos Louis Tomlinson More

And didn’t he do her proud, eh? After a teeny, tiny delay – where we wondered if (understandably) his emotions had been too much – he got up on stage AT FREAKING WEMBLEY and performed a majestic rendition of his debut solo single, Just Hold On, which is rumoured to be about his mama. Mega weep.

The Directioners got behind Lou in the best way a fandom possibly could, getting both #ProudofLouis and #JustHoldOn trending on Twitter.

And his army of fans were praising his bravery online.

i have so much respect for louis — bella (@wokeluhan) December 10, 2016





No words can explain what I'm feeling for this boy. All my love and support goes out to him. Stay strong love❤️❤️❤️ @Louis_Tomlinson pic.twitter.com/JyScOYlp8w — Dionne (@louisxsivan) December 10, 2016





@Louis_Tomlinson What you did today was extremely brave love, we are very very proud of you. Stay strong #ProudOfLouis — X adores H ✨ (@Hxppily_Narry) December 10, 2016





You get the idea. There’s A LOT of love.

His X Factor mentor, Simon Cowell, even had a few words to say. He told Louis: “What you’ve just done, I respect you as an artist, I respect you as a person and your mum was so looking forward to tonight, she’s looking down on you and she’s so proud.”

View photos Louis Tomlinson More

So, we were in total floods of tears. Louis, darling just hold on. We’re all so proud of you tonight.

<3 <3 <3 <3