Michael Moore reveals plans for major protest at Donald Trump inauguration
Michael Moore reveals plans for major protest at Donald Trump inauguration
Michael Moore was one of the few people to accurately predict Donald Trump ’s victory. Among pollsters, media commentators and even some members of the Republican party, it was widely considered beyond the bounds of possibility. Nevertheless, now that he has won, the Oscar-winning documentary-maker and left-wing political commentator, has made it crystal clear he will not be accepting the rise of Mr Trump or resigning it to the annals of history. On the contrary, Moore is planning to lead national protests and planned resistance to disrupt the President-elect’s inauguration in January. “If by some awful happenstance Trump shows up to be sworn in on January 20th, I will be there helping lead the national protest and non-violently disrupting the inauguration of a man no one other than the electoral college elected - and I'll also be doing my own thing as a private citizen (activities I won't disclose now),” Moore told . “This impending disaster requires everyone to get involved now - all hands on deck! This is not a drill!” he concluded. But Moore, who in July correctly predicted Mr Trump would win the presidential election, also suggested it would be foolish to assume the billionaire property developer would make it to his inauguration at the White House. President Donald Trump life in pictures               President Donald Trump life in pictures       Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York   Reuters        Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open.
She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996   Reuters        U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa   Reuters        Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open   Reuters        Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,'   Reuters        Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King.  Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee   Reuters        Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park.  Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City   Reuters        Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.'   Reuters        Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles   Reuters        Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka   Reuters        Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior   Reuters        Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles   Reuters        U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland   Reuters  “The question assumes [Trump] will be inaugurated. If there's one thing we've learned from this election, don't assume anything that's supposed to happen will,” he said. “If I had told you a year ago that a socialist would win nearly half of all the Democratic primaries and caucuses (22), that would have sounded insane.”   Michael Moore: Donald Trump will be impeached as President “If I would have told you that a candidate bragging about his sexual assaults or attacking a Gold Star family would be his path to winning, you would have ended this interview.” “If I would have told you that Donald Trump was going to win, you might have called upon a family member of mine to do an intervention. Oh wait. I did say that! Why was there no intervention?!” On Wednesday, Moore called for protestors to disrupt Mr Trump’s inauguration on his Twitter account. He shared a link to #DISRUPTJ20, an event which seeks to mobilise protesters against his inauguration. Disrupt the Inauguration. The Majority have spoken - by nearly 2.7 million votes &counting! Silence is not an option https://t.co/HSmP3pREvy Since Mr Trump’s victory, Moore has enjoyed something of a renaissance and has become one of the most vocal critics of the President-elect and a hugely popular mouthpiece for those on the left. He has made his rounds on the TV news circuit, discussing the factors behind the seismic election result and its repercussions. Moore recently suggested Mr Trump was likely to be impeached and suggested he would break the law during his first term as President. More about: Donald Trump Michael Moore Comments

Michael Moore was one of the few people to accurately predict Donald Trump’s victory. Among pollsters, media commentators and even some members of the Republican party, it was widely considered beyond the bounds of possibility.

Nevertheless, now that he has won, the Oscar-winning documentary-maker and left-wing political commentator, has made it crystal clear he will not be accepting the rise of Mr Trump or resigning it to the annals of history. On the contrary, Moore is planning to lead national protests and planned resistance to disrupt the President-elect’s inauguration in January.

“If by some awful happenstance Trump shows up to be sworn in on January 20th, I will be there helping lead the national protest and non-violently disrupting the inauguration of a man no one other than the electoral college elected - and I'll also be doing my own thing as a private citizen (activities I won't disclose now),” Moore told The Hollywood Reporter.

Michael Moore suggests Trump still might not become President

“This impending disaster requires everyone to get involved now - all hands on deck! This is not a drill!” he concluded.

But Moore, who in July correctly predicted Mr Trump would win the presidential election, also suggested it would be foolish to assume the billionaire property developer would make it to his inauguration at the White House.

President Donald Trump life in pictures







16 show all President Donald Trump life in pictures





























1/16 Donald Trump poses in a rocking chair once used by President John F. Kennedy at his New York City residence Reuters

2/16 Developer Donald Trump with his new bride Marla Maples after their wedding at the Plaza hotel in New York Reuters

3/16 Donald Trump and Celina Midelfart watch the match between Conchita Martinez and Amanda Coetzer during U.S. Open. She was the date whom Donald Trump was with when he met his current wife Melania at a party in 1996 Reuters

4/16 U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas serving as the grand marshal for the Daytona 500, speaks to Donald Trump and Melania Knauss on the starting grid at the Daytona International Speedwa Reuters

5/16 Developer Donald Trump talks with his former wife Ivana Trump during the men's final at the U.S. Open Reuters

6/16 Donald Trump and his friend Melania Knauss pose for photographers as they arrive at the New York premiere of Star Wars Episode : 'The Phantom Menace,' Reuters

7/16 Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump talks with host Larry King. Trump told King that he was moving toward a possible bid for the United States presidency with the formation of a presidential exploratory committee Reuters

8/16 Donald Trump answers questions as Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura looks on in Brooklyn Park. Trump said on Friday he 'very well might' make a run for president under the Reform Party banner but had not made a final decision Reuters

9/16 Billionaire Donald Trump makes a face at a friend as he sits next to Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso before the start of the 2003 Miss Universe pageant in Panama City Reuters

10/16 Entrepreneur Donald Trump is greeted by a Marilyn Monroe character look-a-alike, as he arrives at Universal Studios Hollywood to attend the an open casting call for his NBC television network reality series 'The Apprentice.' Reuters

11/16 Donald Trump and Simon Cowell present an Emmy during the 56th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

12/16 Donald Trump and Megan Mullally perform at the 57th annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles Reuters

13/16 Donald Trump, poses with his children, son Donald Trump, Jr., and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka Reuters

14/16 Billionaire Donald Trump told Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner on Tuesday she would be given a second chance after reported misbehavior Reuters

15/16 Donald Trump holds a replica of his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as his wife Melania holds their son Barron in Los Angeles Reuters

16/16 U.S. property mogul Donald Trump stands next to a bagpiper during a media event on the sand dunes of the Menie estate, the site for Trump's proposed golf resort, near Aberdeen, north east Scotland Reuters

“The question assumes [Trump] will be inaugurated. If there's one thing we've learned from this election, don't assume anything that's supposed to happen will,” he said. “If I had told you a year ago that a socialist would win nearly half of all the Democratic primaries and caucuses (22), that would have sounded insane.”

“If I would have told you that a candidate bragging about his sexual assaults or attacking a Gold Star family would be his path to winning, you would have ended this interview.”

“If I would have told you that Donald Trump was going to win, you might have called upon a family member of mine to do an intervention. Oh wait. I did say that! Why was there no intervention?!”

On Wednesday, Moore called for protestors to disrupt Mr Trump’s inauguration on his Twitter account. He shared a link to #DISRUPTJ20, an event which seeks to mobilise protesters against his inauguration.

Disrupt the Inauguration. The Majority have spoken - by nearly 2.7 million votes &counting! Silence is not an option https://t.co/HSmP3pREvy — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 7, 2016

Since Mr Trump’s victory, Moore has enjoyed something of a renaissance and has become one of the most vocal critics of the President-elect and a hugely popular mouthpiece for those on the left. He has made his rounds on the TV news circuit, discussing the factors behind the seismic election result and its repercussions.

Moore recently suggested Mr Trump was likely to be impeached and suggested he would break the law during his first term as President.