Syria activists say Islamic State has recaptured Palmyra, clashes in Aleppo continue



Syria activists say Islamic State has recaptured Palmyra, clashes in Aleppo continue

Updated

Islamic State militants have reportedly seized the ancient Syrian town of Palmyra from Government troops despite a wave of Russian airstrikes, a major advance after a year of setbacks.

Key points: Monitors say IS militants have forced troops to retreat from Palmyra

Syrian army advances in south-east Aleppo

Thousands of refugees fleeing fighting

Backed by Russian air power, the Syrian Government had recaptured Palmyra, home to towering 2,000-year-old ruins, to great fanfare in March.

But the militants have been steadily advancing in recent days while the Government has waged a major offensive against rebels in the northern city of Aleppo.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and the Palmyra Coordination group said IS militants fought their way into the town in a multi-pronged assault, forcing Government forces to retreat to the south.

Russia had earlier claimed to have repelled an IS attack on Palmyra, saying it had launched 64 airstrikes overnight that killed 300 militants. But hours later, the activists said IS had seized a castle just outside the town that overlooks its famed Roman-era ruins.

What is Palmyra? UNESCO describes Palmyra as a heritage site of "outstanding universal value"

Palmyra first entered recorded history in the early second millennium BC as a caravan stop for travellers

The ancient city stood on a caravan route at the crossroads of several civilisations; the place where the ancient Greek and Roman worlds met the ancient Persian and Parthian worlds on the Silk Road

Its first and second century temples and colonnaded streets mark a unique blend of Graeco-Roman and Persian influences

It is strategically important, placed in the centre of the Syrian desert, and is the crossroads for roads going to Jordan, Iraq, and Damascus.

Palmyra was a major tourist attraction before the civil war broke out in 2011. IS seized the town last year and held it for 10 months. During that time it dynamited a number of temples and destroyed other artefacts.

The Syrian army and its allies have meanwhile advanced in south-east Aleppo and a rebel official said insurgents face "death or surrender" in an ever smaller enclave, with large numbers of civilians under very fierce bombardment.

Russian and US officials are meeting in Geneva on Sunday (local time) for more talks on an elusive deal for civilians and fighters to leave the city, diplomats said, but the rebel official said the Aleppo insurgents had had no word yet on their progress.

The fall of all of Aleppo to President Bashar al-Assad would bring him the biggest victory yet after nearly six years of civil war, but he would still remain far from restoring Government control over his country.

Heavy shelling and air raids pounded Aleppo's besieged rebel pocket from midnight on Saturday and throughout Sunday morning, a Reuters reporter in the city said, with explosions at a rate of more than one a minute. Gunfire was also heard.

"The result will certainly be a complete end of the district, in a tragic way," said the Turkish-based official from the Jabha Shamiya rebel group, which is present in Aleppo.

Thousands of refugees are still pouring from the areas of fighting. The Observatory said more than 120,000 civilians had left the eastern part of the city as the Government advance closed in, but that tens of thousands remained.

Mr Assad's forces are supported by Russian air power, Iran and Shiite militias from Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan. Together they have helped to turn the tide of conflict his way after he seemed to be on the back foot in mid-2015.

The mostly Sunni rebels include groups supported by the United States, Turkey and Gulf monarchies, but also some jihadist factions that receive no assistance from the West.

Reuters reporters on a tour of Old City districts captured by the army saw how its historic covered market had been pounded, with ancient quarters reduced to a warren of defensive positions adorned with rebel slogans.

"Embrace death for Aleppo" was one.

Reuters/AP

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, terrorism, syrian-arab-republic

First posted