Netflix Spokesperson Says Prince Discussed Reality Show
Netflix Spokesperson Says Prince Discussed Reality Show
Shares                Here's something else we lost with the death of Prince : A Netflix reality series centered on his Paisley Park home in Minnesota . A Netflix spokesperson told The Associated Press on Saturday that the online entertainment company had been in "discussions" with Prince about a series, but that the project did not "come to fruition" before his death in April. Photographer Maya Washington, a friend of the performer known for such hits as "Purple Rain" and "1999," told GQ recently that he had talked about the show and how he didn't want to be in it. "Why not? You're so funny," she told him. Answered Prince: "Maya, I can't be funny. I have to save the world." Shares                  Netflix Spokesperson Says Prince Discussed Reality Show   What Critics Are Saying About 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story'   Ben Affleck Says Matt Damon's Jealous He Gets to Play Batman   LeBron James 'Humbled' by SI Sportsperson of the Year Award   Jennifer Lawrence Gets Back at Chris Pratt for Pranks   Jonathan Lipnicki and 'Jerry Maguire' 20 Years Later   Mark Wahlberg Is Optimistic About Future Under Trump   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now   Viola Davis Gives Moving Speech at Critics' Choice Awards   Golden Globes 2017: Snubs and Surprises   'The Fate of the Furious' Full-Length Trailer Released   How a Single Senate Republican Could Tank Tillerson's Nomination   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms

Here's something else we lost with the death of Prince: A Netflix reality series centered on his Paisley Park home in Minnesota.

A Netflix spokesperson told The Associated Press on Saturday that the online entertainment company had been in "discussions" with Prince about a series, but that the project did not "come to fruition" before his death in April.

Photographer Maya Washington, a friend of the performer known for such hits as "Purple Rain" and "1999," told GQ recently that he had talked about the show and how he didn't want to be in it. "Why not? You're so funny," she told him. Answered Prince: "Maya, I can't be funny. I have to save the world."