99 million-year-old dinosaur tail found in chunk of amber bought at market
99 million-year-old dinosaur tail found in chunk of amber bought at market


chunk of amber on sale in a market was found to contain a dinosaur tail, complete with feathers. Lida Xing from the China University of Geosciences in Beijing found the specimen in Myitkyina, Myanmar. The seller thought the tail was a type of plant and hoped it would be bought be a jeweler or fossil collector. However Dr Xing realised it could be something far more important and persuaded the Institute of Palaeontology to buy the lump for further study. It was then sent for analysis at the Royal Saskatchewan Museum in Canada . After looking at the amber under a microscope and using CT scans, the scientists discovered it was the feathered tail of a theropod dinosaur, probably a coelurosaur, which lived in the mid-Cretaceous about 99 million-years-ago. The feathers suggest that the tail had a chestnut-brown upper surface and a pale or white underside. "The new material preserves a tail consisting of eight vertebrae from a juvenile," said Dr Ryan McKellar of the Royal Saskatchewan Museum. "These are surrounded by feathers that are preserved in 3D and with microscopic detail. We can be sure of the source because the vertebrae are not fused into a rod or pygostyle as in modern birds and their closest relatives. "Instead, the tail is long and flexible, with keels of feathers running down each side." t means the feathers definitely are those of a dinosaur not a prehistoric bird. The researchers also examined the chemistry of the tail where it poked out of the surface of the amber. The analysis shows that the soft tissue layer around the bones retained traces of ferrous iron, a relic left over from dinosaur blood that was also trapped in the sample. "Amber pieces preserve tiny snapshots of ancient ecosystems, but they record microscopic details, three-dimensional arrangements, and labile tissues that are difficult to study in other settings," Dr McKellar said. "This is a new source of information that is worth researching with intensity and protecting as a fossil resource." The researchers say they are now eager to see how additional finds from this region will reshape our understanding of plumage and soft tissues in dinosaurs and other vertebrates. The research was published in the journal Current Biology .

A chunk of amber on sale in a market was found to contain a dinosaur tail, complete with feathers.

Lida Xing from the China University of Geosciences in Beijing found the specimen in Myitkyina, Myanmar. The seller thought the tail was a type of plant and hoped it would be bought be a jeweler or fossil collector.

However Dr Xing realised it could be something far more important and persuaded the Institute of Palaeontology to buy the lump for further study. It was then sent for analysis at the Royal Saskatchewan Museum in Canada.

After looking at the amber under a microscope and using CT scans, the scientists discovered it was the feathered tail of a theropod dinosaur, probably a coelurosaur, which lived in the mid-Cretaceous about 99 million-years-ago.

The feathers suggest that the tail had a chestnut-brown upper surface and a pale or white underside.

"The new material preserves a tail consisting of eight vertebrae from a juvenile," said Dr Ryan McKellar of the Royal Saskatchewan Museum.

"These are surrounded by feathers that are preserved in 3D and with microscopic detail. We can be sure of the source because the vertebrae are not fused into a rod or pygostyle as in modern birds and their closest relatives.

"Instead, the tail is long and flexible, with keels of feathers running down each side."