NFL will look to bring back 'My Cause, My Cleats'
NFL will look to bring back 'My Cause, My Cleats'
NFL will look to bring back 'My Cause, My Cleats' Patriots unseat Cowboys for No. 1 in Week 15 Power Rankings Ravens, Browns, Cards to make London debuts Dodgeball to highlight Pro Bowl Skills Challenge Rams COO: Fisher firing 'organizational failure' Ex-Raven Reuland, 29, dies after brain aneurysm Police report: Floyd changed story during arrest Manziel to Carr: 'Take you up' on friendship offer Tom Brady is X factor in flawed AFC playoff field 1 Related Most QB struggle throwing deep vs Ravens -- but not Tom Brady Ravens show resiliency, but Patriots on different level What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 14: Giants surging, Broncos in trouble Vote: How should Dallas address Dak's struggles? What the TD celebration in 'Jerry Maguire' would look like now Rams had no choice but to fire Jeff Fisher Rex on hot seat: 'Not signing up for a dismissal' A verdict many applaud is still a total loss for New Orleans Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft Matchups that could take down Super Bowl contenders Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? Ron Rivera: Facing sometimes stubborn Josh Norman will be fun Patriots' push costs bettor $100K, 15-leg parlay Best and worst QBs of Week 14: a low point for QB play For once, Dak Prescott could not find answers Dickerson on Rams' firing Fisher: 'It was time' NFL playoff picture: Giants delay Cowboys' clinching party Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14 Browns' Jackson wants Pryor to stop trash-talking Chargers RB Gordon day-to-day for hip, knee Injured finger won't sideline Stafford vs. Giants The Big Story for every NFL team Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment ESPN NFL Insider Joined ESPN in 2009 Former president of the Pro Football Writers of America and the author of four books Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment The "My Cause, My Cleats" program, a campaign in which players wore specially designed cleats to promote their charity of choice in Week 13, has been such a success that the NFL anticipates conducting the same program next season. The league is still trying to figure out the most effective way to do it, according to NFL senior vice president of social responsibility Anna Isaacson. Commissioner Roger Goodell will meet with NFL players in January to get their sense of what worked and how the concept could be expanded. "Nothing is off the table," Isaacson said. "Now that we tried something new, there's an appetite to hear how we can extend it. But we want to be thoughtful about it." The cleats of three Dallas Cowboys players had received the top bids in open auctions as of Sunday morning. Quarterback Dak Prescott 's cleats have raised $4,510 for The American Cancer Society. Ezekiel Elliott 's cleats will fetch at least $4,036 for shelter animals and animals in need, and Jason Witten 's cleats are currently going for $2,000 to help stop domestic violence. Tennessee Titans and Cleveland Browns players will participate in the campaign this week, as both teams were on a bye in Week 13. Bidding remains open, and the cleats will wind up raising tens of thousands of dollars. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The "My Cause, My Cleats" program, a campaign in which players wore specially designed cleats to promote their charity of choice in Week 13, has been such a success that the NFL anticipates conducting the same program next season.

The league is still trying to figure out the most effective way to do it, according to NFL senior vice president of social responsibility Anna Isaacson.

Commissioner Roger Goodell will meet with NFL players in January to get their sense of what worked and how the concept could be expanded.

"Nothing is off the table," Isaacson said. "Now that we tried something new, there's an appetite to hear how we can extend it. But we want to be thoughtful about it."

The cleats of three Dallas Cowboys players had received the top bids in open auctions as of Sunday morning. Quarterback Dak Prescott's cleats have raised $4,510 for The American Cancer Society. Ezekiel Elliott's cleats will fetch at least $4,036 for shelter animals and animals in need, and Jason Witten's cleats are currently going for $2,000 to help stop domestic violence.

Tennessee Titans and Cleveland Browns players will participate in the campaign this week, as both teams were on a bye in Week 13.

Bidding remains open, and the cleats will wind up raising tens of thousands of dollars.