This Classic '80s Trend is About to Make a Huge Comeback
This Classic '80s Trend is About to Make a Huge Comeback
It's December, which means those winter excursions to the mountains are right around the corner – time to prepare your best snow bunny OOTDs for Instagram pictures along the white shimmery slopes. According to Polyvore , people have already started to look for the perfect ski attire, with searches for ski pants up 84% in comparison to last year. That may be influenced in part by the appearance of ski-inspired stirrup pants on the Fall 2016 runways at Balenciaga. In doing so, designer Demna Gvasalia set a huge trend, with mass retailers releasing similar styles shortly after his presentation. Can you blame them? Before they were an ’80s staple, they were a symbol of Old Hollywood glamour. They first made an appearance in the 1950s, when Bogner released the stirrup pants which became an instant success and were eventually nicknamed "The Bogners." Actresses like Marilyn Monroe donned the pants as they vacationed in the mountains. So if you're looking for a cute look to wear on or off the slopes this winter, get yourself a pair of stirrup ski pants! They're more flattering then the typical bulky ski pants that only make you look like a marshmallow. If you can't find one you particularly like but like the look of the stirrup, fake it till you make it , with a pair of stirrup leggings worn underneath a more form-fitting ski pant. So hit the slopes in style and shop ahead some of our favorite ski stirrups and pants.

It's December, which means those winter excursions to the mountains are right around the corner – time to prepare your best snow bunny OOTDs for Instagram pictures along the white shimmery slopes. According to Polyvore, people have already started to look for the perfect ski attire, with searches for ski pants up 84% in comparison to last year.

That may be influenced in part by the appearance of ski-inspired stirrup pants on the Fall 2016 runways at Balenciaga. In doing so, designer Demna Gvasalia set a huge trend, with mass retailers releasing similar styles shortly after his presentation. Can you blame them? Before they were an ’80s staple, they were a symbol of Old Hollywood glamour. They first made an appearance in the 1950s, when Bogner released the stirrup pants which became an instant success and were eventually nicknamed "The Bogners." Actresses like Marilyn Monroe donned the pants as they vacationed in the mountains.

So if you're looking for a cute look to wear on or off the slopes this winter, get yourself a pair of stirrup ski pants! They're more flattering then the typical bulky ski pants that only make you look like a marshmallow. If you can't find one you particularly like but like the look of the stirrup, fake it till you make it, with a pair of stirrup leggings worn underneath a more form-fitting ski pant.

So hit the slopes in style and shop ahead some of our favorite ski stirrups and pants.

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.