Did You Know Dilip Kumar Was The First Choice For 'Lawrence Of Arabia' And Not Omar Sharif?
Did You Know Dilip Kumar Was The First Choice For 'Lawrence Of Arabia' And Not Omar Sharif?
Did You Know Dilip Kumar Was The First Choice For 'Lawrence Of Arabia' And Not Omar Sharif? Marlon Brando Director David Lean wanted an 'authentic actor' and that's the reason he approached Dilip Kumar The next question was who to cast as Sherif Ali, a character based on various tribal chieftains who had fought alongside Lawrence. Lean did not want to use a European star; he wanted a more authentic actor. That's when he got in touch with Dilip Kumar, whose work he knew because of his personal experience of India. A meeting was arranged with Dilip Kumar, where the charming and persuasive Lean pitched the role to him. But Dilip Kumar turned him down, and the role went to Omar Sharif who had originally been cast to play Tafas, Lawrence's desert guide who, ironically, is shot dead by Sherif Ali in his iconic introductory sequence. Thus, what was intended as Omar Sharif's end in the film, turned out, instead, to be the beginning of a famous Hollywood career. He won an Oscar nomination for his role, and never looked back. Lawrence of Arabia itself, meanwhile, went on to be ranked as one of the greatest films in cinema history. Sharif was in the right place at the right time: Hollywood, in the 1960s, needed an exotic multi-purpose foreigner. Sadly, his playboy lifestyle eventually made him take up any mediocre role that would finance his lavish habits — leading him to ruefully comment in later years that he had squandered his career. But the big mystery, of course, is: why did Dilip Kumar turn down a part that any actor would kill for? It seems an inexplicable career decision, especially given the fact that David Lean was at his prime as a director, having won seven Oscars with his last film. Was the decision of turning down a film, which won an Oscar later, the worst career move Dilip Kumar made? Still debatable Strangely, Dilip Kumar's autobiography, The Shadow and the Substance, doesn't shed much light on the matter, so one can only speculate. Was it was because he was then busy with his ambitious project? Or because he believed his loyalty was to his Indian audiences? Or simply because he found David Lean too domineering a personality and was worried that the chemistry wouldn't work? All that Dilip Kumar has said on the subject is that he thought Omar Sharif had played the role far better than he himself could have. Whatever the reason, it may well rank as one of the worst career moves in cinema history. Dilip Kumar lost the opportunity to take his talent onto a whole new, international level, right at the prime of his career. A big loss, especially for an actor noted for his ability to take risks, to learn, and evolve with every new role. One cannot help wonder: What if Dilip Kumar had, indeed, played the part? He was, unquestionably, a better actor than Omar Sharif (although, he might not have quite had Sharif's homme fatale quality). He would have done a great job of Sherif Ali's role, quite likely even better than Omar Sharif did. He might have thus become one of Lean's pool of chosen talent, like Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins and Omar Sharif himself, whom the great director called upon to act in his subsequent productions. And then who knows what might have happened? Maybe, for one thing, Lean might have decided to make his critically acclaimed A Passage to India a couple of decades earlier, with Dilip Kumar playing a brilliant Dr Aziz. But, that apart, Lawrence of Arabia would have opened other Hollywood doors for Dilip Kumar. And those experiences would have, in turn, helped enrich his future Hindi movie roles. He would have thus surely avoided the bad patch he went through in the 1970s, starting with Gopi and Sagina Mahato, which wiped out ten of the best years of his life. But one thing is for sure: Dilip Kumar would not, unlike Omar Sharif, have left Indian cinema and moved to Hollywood; he was too rooted, and modest, a person for that. Nor, for that, matter is he likely to have romanced the likes of Ava Gardner, Catherine Deneuve, Julie Christie and Barbara Streisand. There would probably always have been a Saira Bano waiting for him back home. That is as much as one can say without breaking the rules of counterfactual history. While Dilip Kumar did not act in Lawrence of Arabia, there was another Indian actor who did. And that was I S Johar, who played the minor role of Gasim, a Bedouin tribesman who Lawrence finally executes. The role got I S Johar his hour of glory back home in India, and many Indian fans went to see the film to watch his two minutes on screen. Just imagine the reception a Dilip Kumar would have got, locking his dark oriental eyes with Peter O'Toole's arctic blue eyes through the film's nearly four hours of epic running time.

The late Omar Sharif burned his way into Hollywood with Lawrence of Arabia, and went on to become one of its hottest sex symbols. But what most people don't know is that the actor who was originally supposed to play Omar Sharif's role in the film was Dilip Kumar. Director David Lean was an Indophile thanks, partly, to the fact that his fourth wife was Leela Welingkar, a legendary Hyderabadi beauty. Lean had recently made The Bridge on the River Kwai, which had won seven Oscars, and he was now looking to make his next great blockbuster. To play Lawrence, Lean had originally wanted Marlon Brando, but Brando turned him down because the money wasn't good enough. Lean then selected the then unknown Peter O'Toole, with his brilliant blue-eyes.

Director David Lean wanted an 'authentic actor' and that's the reason he approached Dilip Kumar

The next question was who to cast as Sherif Ali, a character based on various tribal chieftains who had fought alongside Lawrence. Lean did not want to use a European star; he wanted a more authentic actor. That's when he got in touch with Dilip Kumar, whose work he knew because of his personal experience of India. A meeting was arranged with Dilip Kumar, where the charming and persuasive Lean pitched the role to him. But Dilip Kumar turned him down, and the role went to Omar Sharif who had originally been cast to play Tafas, Lawrence's desert guide who, ironically, is shot dead by Sherif Ali in his iconic introductory sequence. Thus, what was intended as Omar Sharif's end in the film, turned out, instead, to be the beginning of a famous Hollywood career. He won an Oscar nomination for his role, and never looked back. Lawrence of Arabia itself, meanwhile, went on to be ranked as one of the greatest films in cinema history. Sharif was in the right place at the right time: Hollywood, in the 1960s, needed an exotic multi-purpose foreigner. Sadly, his playboy lifestyle eventually made him take up any mediocre role that would finance his lavish habits — leading him to ruefully comment in later years that he had squandered his career. But the big mystery, of course, is: why did Dilip Kumar turn down a part that any actor would kill for? It seems an inexplicable career decision, especially given the fact that David Lean was at his prime as a director, having won seven Oscars with his last film.

Was the decision of turning down a film, which won an Oscar later, the worst career move Dilip Kumar made? Still debatable

Strangely, Dilip Kumar's autobiography, The Shadow and the Substance, doesn't shed much light on the matter, so one can only speculate. Was it was because he was then busy with his ambitious Ganga Jamuna project? Or because he believed his loyalty was to his Indian audiences? Or simply because he found David Lean too domineering a personality and was worried that the chemistry wouldn't work? All that Dilip Kumar has said on the subject is that he thought Omar Sharif had played the role far better than he himself could have. Whatever the reason, it may well rank as one of the worst career moves in cinema history. Dilip Kumar lost the opportunity to take his talent onto a whole new, international level, right at the prime of his career. A big loss, especially for an actor noted for his ability to take risks, to learn, and evolve with every new role.

One cannot help wonder: What if Dilip Kumar had, indeed, played the part? He was, unquestionably, a better actor than Omar Sharif (although, he might not have quite had Sharif's homme fatale quality). He would have done a great job of Sherif Ali's role, quite likely even better than Omar Sharif did. He might have thus become one of Lean's pool of chosen talent, like Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins and Omar Sharif himself, whom the great director called upon to act in his subsequent productions. And then who knows what might have happened? Maybe, for one thing, Lean might have decided to make his critically acclaimed A Passage to India a couple of decades earlier, with Dilip Kumar playing a brilliant Dr Aziz.

But, that apart, Lawrence of Arabia would have opened other Hollywood doors for Dilip Kumar. And those experiences would have, in turn, helped enrich his future Hindi movie roles. He would have thus surely avoided the bad patch he went through in the 1970s, starting with Gopi and Sagina Mahato, which wiped out ten of the best years of his life. But one thing is for sure: Dilip Kumar would not, unlike Omar Sharif, have left Indian cinema and moved to Hollywood; he was too rooted, and modest, a person for that.

Nor, for that, matter is he likely to have romanced the likes of Ava Gardner, Catherine Deneuve, Julie Christie and Barbara Streisand. There would probably always have been a Saira Bano waiting for him back home. That is as much as one can say without breaking the rules of counterfactual history. While Dilip Kumar did not act in Lawrence of Arabia, there was another Indian actor who did. And that was I S Johar, who played the minor role of Gasim, a Bedouin tribesman who Lawrence finally executes. The role got I S Johar his hour of glory back home in India, and many Indian fans went to see the film to watch his two minutes on screen. Just imagine the reception a Dilip Kumar would have got, locking his dark oriental eyes with Peter O'Toole's arctic blue eyes through the film's nearly four hours of epic running time.