Super bantamweight boxer, 23, found shot dead 'execution-style' in Mexico
Super bantamweight boxer, 23, found shot dead 'execution-style'


Super bantamweight boxer Alejandro 'La Cobrita' Gonzalez, Jr. was found dead in his hometown of Guadalajara, Mexico on Friday in what has the hallmarks of an execution-style killing.

Authorities said the 23-year-old, 122-pound fighter was found shot dead in a Jeep, along with two others, according to the New York Daily News.

Super bantamweight champ Carl Frampton said that Gonzalez gave him the 'fright of his life' when he knocked him down twice in the early rounds of the title match in July

Gonzalez Jr. impressed the boxing world with his finesse against Frampton but ended up unanimously losing

Super bantamweight boxer Alejandro Gonzalez, Jr. was found shot to death near his home in Mexico

Gonzalez had a had a 25-3-3 record with 15 knockouts. He is also the son of two-time world champion Alejandro Gonzalez, with whom he shared the nickname 'La Cobrita.'

Gonzalez stunned the boxing world briefly in July 2015 in El Paso, Texas during his lone title fight when he twice knocked down unbeaten super bantamweight champion Carl Frampton in the first round - he then went on to unanimously lose the match, according to ESPN.

Gonzalez, above, in El Paso after his loss to Frampton: The champion boxer said that Gonzalez was 'one of the nicest guys' he'd shared a ring with

'Just hearing the tragic news about Alejandro Gonzalez Jr,' Irishman Frampton wrote on Twitter. 'One of the nicest guys I've shared a ring with. RIP Champ.'

Later, he wrote: 'This kid gave me the fright of my life. But kept in touch from time to time on WhatsApp and always wished me well. Very sad RIP Champ.'

'Everyone at Premier Boxing Champions is profoundly saddened by the death of Alejandro Gonzalez Jr. He was a fantastic boxer with a bright future,' said spokesman Tim Smith. 'It is a tragic loss for the boxing community. We offer our deepest condolences to his family and pray for them as they cope with the loss of their beloved ‘Cobrita.''