Four Words That Give This CEO The Courage To Take On The Beauty Industry
Four Words That Give This CEO The Courage To Take On The Beauty Industry
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Denise Restauri       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Grace Choi. Photo credit Grace Choi The headline on one of my most popular posts on Forbes reads: "A Harvard Woman Is Blowing Up The $55 Billion Beauty Industry With 3D Printed Makeup." Followed by: Grace Choi is a 30-year-old serial inventor who is taking on the $55B makeup industry by giving women the power to have what they want, when they want it. Picture this: you snap a photo of a tropical purple flower and in less than two minutes you can print a lipstick in that exact color. And you’ll do it at home with Mink, your personal 3D printer. You don’t need to know how to code, you don’t need to understand 3D printing and you don’t need a boatload of money. That post was written in 2014 and Mink has evolved from a 3D printer to the Makeup Hacker . At the core of every Mink product is this: Choi is giving women the tools to create what they want so they no longer need to accept what companies, like the beauty industry, make for them. Choi says that she's driven by four words: This is her Mentoring Moment (in her words): I have a very foggy memory. I’m very good at recalling tools, resources and past ideas I’ve had, but the memories of my personal life experiences are quite hazy. It’s very bizarre. But I do remember, very vividly, one very defining moment. I was working on a project at a medical lab and we needed volunteers to participate in an exam so we could gather data. We were giving volunteers a chance to get a full body diagnostic MRI exam to evaluate their arteries, using one of the most expensive and advanced medical technologies — and was it being performed by the top pioneering physician in the procedure, at one of the top hospitals in the world, all for free, no hassle. My mom jumped at the chance to volunteer and to help fill in the slots with friends and members of her church. “Mr. Aorta” was an elderly gentleman who came in with his wife. He welcomed this opportunity to make sure everything was in working order. He seemed relatively fit and healthy, but as his scan appeared on the screen, my advisor and I collectively gasped at the size of the aortic aneurysm staring back at us. After the scan, my advisor ushered Mr. Aorta and his wife into his office to explain the results and counsel them on next steps. I nervously waited outside on the couch. Mr. Aorta’s wife was my mother’s good friend and I was scared that she would be upset at me for having a hand in unearthing the bad news. As I started to apologize she sat down next to me and said, “Thank you so much, this was the best gift ever.” Immediately following the exam, they took the necessary steps to treat his condition and worked very hard to get him to a place where he could maintain his health and live a full and potentially long life. It was in that moment on the couch that I realized that although the truth is not always pleasant, I realized that no matter how uncomfortable or inconvenient the truth, that being unaware or ignorant is what causes devastation. Therefore we should always so that we have the opportunity to change the things that we can and prepare ourselves to handle the things that are to come. Knowing this gives me the courage to continue to speak out about the social oppression towards women and minorities that the cosmetic marketing engine continues to create. It gives me the courage to develop tools that show women just how powerful they are, their ideas are, their voices are. Because that is the truth.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Forbes CMO Interview: Calvin Klein’s Melisa Goldie

This is Mentoring Moments, a series of WOW-you-need-to-know-these stories from successful women of multiple generations. Mentoring Moments is now a podcast.

The headline on one of my most popular posts on Forbes reads: "A Harvard Woman Is Blowing Up The $55 Billion Beauty Industry With 3D Printed Makeup." Followed by:

Grace Choi is a 30-year-old serial inventor who is taking on the $55B makeup industry by giving women the power to have what they want, when they want it. Picture this: you snap a photo of a tropical purple flower and in less than two minutes you can print a lipstick in that exact color. And you’ll do it at home with Mink, your personal 3D printer. You don’t need to know how to code, you don’t need to understand 3D printing and you don’t need a boatload of money.

That post was written in 2014 and Mink has evolved from a 3D printer to the Makeup Hacker. At the core of every Mink product is this: Choi is giving women the tools to create what they want so they no longer need to accept what companies, like the beauty industry, make for them.

Choi says that she's driven by four words: “Fight for the truth" because the truth gives us the courage and ability to change the things that aren’t working in the world. This is her Mentoring Moment (in her words):

I have a very foggy memory. I’m very good at recalling tools, resources and past ideas I’ve had, but the memories of my personal life experiences are quite hazy. It’s very bizarre. But I do remember, very vividly, one very defining moment.

I was working on a project at a medical lab and we needed volunteers to participate in an exam so we could gather data. We were giving volunteers a chance to get a full body diagnostic MRI exam to evaluate their arteries, using one of the most expensive and advanced medical technologies — and was it being performed by the top pioneering physician in the procedure, at one of the top hospitals in the world, all for free, no hassle. My mom jumped at the chance to volunteer and to help fill in the slots with friends and members of her church.

“Mr. Aorta” was an elderly gentleman who came in with his wife. He welcomed this opportunity to make sure everything was in working order. He seemed relatively fit and healthy, but as his scan appeared on the screen, my advisor and I collectively gasped at the size of the aortic aneurysm staring back at us. After the scan, my advisor ushered Mr. Aorta and his wife into his office to explain the results and counsel them on next steps.

I nervously waited outside on the couch. Mr. Aorta’s wife was my mother’s good friend and I was scared that she would be upset at me for having a hand in unearthing the bad news. As I started to apologize she sat down next to me and said, “Thank you so much, this was the best gift ever.” Immediately following the exam, they took the necessary steps to treat his condition and worked very hard to get him to a place where he could maintain his health and live a full and potentially long life.

It was in that moment on the couch that I realized that although the truth is not always pleasant, the truth is always a gift because it offers the recipient of that information the chance to change the outcome. I realized that no matter how uncomfortable or inconvenient the truth, that being unaware or ignorant is what causes devastation. Therefore we should always fight for the truth so that we have the opportunity to change the things that we can and prepare ourselves to handle the things that are to come. Knowing this gives me the courage to continue to speak out about the social oppression towards women and minorities that the cosmetic marketing engine continues to create. It gives me the courage to develop tools that show women just how powerful they are, their ideas are, their voices are. Because that is the truth.

Take a listen to Choi on the Mentoring Moments podcast: Hear more about how Choi is blowing up a $55 billion industry, dig into her life mission and find out if she's a planner or "fly by the seat of your pants kinda gal." Plus Erin Zaikis, founder of Sundara, returns for "Takeaways" to figure out where women entrepreneurs find their sense of confidence and self-beauty.