How To Avoid Credit Card Debt This Holiday Season
How To Avoid Credit Card Debt This Holiday Season
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Nick Clements       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photographer: Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg Americans have started accumulating credit card debt once again. A recent report from the Federal Reserve revealed that total credit card debt of $747 billion is the highest in over six years. And a recent survey from MagnifyMoney indicated that 26% of Americans are planning to add more debt this holiday season. Before you start swiping, consider the true cost of credit card debt and create a plan to avoid it entirely. Interest rates on credit cards are not low. The average interest rate on credit card balances is close to 14% . And depending upon your credit score and the type of credit card you use, the interest rate could be a lot higher. One of the most expensive forms of credit is a store credit card. Macy's, for example, charges everyone 25.49% APR regardless of their credit score. While a credit card can be a convenient way to finance short-term borrowing, it can become very expensive over the long term. If you borrow $1,000 this holiday season and pay only the minimum due, it will take: 109 months to pay off the debt and you will end up spending $1,732.15 in total payments if the interest rate is 14% Over 30 years to pay off the debt and you will end up spending $9,798.48 in total payments if the interest rate is 25%, like the Macy's credit card. These calculations were made using the BankRate credit card calculator , and you can input your own situation to see the true cost of your shopping. Using a credit card for your holiday shopping can make a lot of sense. In general, with a credit card you have better legal protection and you also have the opportunity to earn lucrative rewards. But there is a danger: studies routinely show that people spend more money when using credit cards . If you want the benefits of credit cards without the risk of over-spending, consider these four suggestions: If you don't tell your money where to go, it has a tendency to disappear. Far too many people simply don't set a realistic budget for the holidays in advance. It is better to make difficult spending decisions before you start shopping, rather than waiting until you are in the store facing temptation. You do not need to wait until the statement appears to make your credit card payment. As you do your holiday shopping, you can make additional payments from your checking account to your credit card. You can manage your budget more closely by watching your checking account balance decrease as you spend money. Most credit card companies offer free alerting services. You can control the settings. At a minimum, set up daily alerts that notify you of your account balance. You can stay on top of your budget daily, and by automating the alerts you will not be able to ignore what you have spent. People sometimes get confused when extra holiday spending is mixed with other expenses. You might want to consider using a separate card just for your holiday shopping. If you set a budget of $1,000 for your holidays, you could use a card and get daily text alerts. That way you will know how to manage holiday expenses in one place. If all of the above fails, consider using the tried and tested "envelope" method. (Unfortunately this does not work if you do most of your holiday shopping online). Just take cash out of your bank account that is budgeted for the holidays. Create an envelope for each category (for example, "gift for Mom.") As you shop, you can only use the cash in each envelope and no cards are allowed. You will give up the reward points, but you will definitely stay on budget.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Americans have started accumulating credit card debt once again. A recent report from the Federal Reserve revealed that total credit card debt of $747 billion is the highest in over six years. And a recent survey from MagnifyMoney indicated that 26% of Americans are planning to add more debt this holiday season.

Before you start swiping, consider the true cost of credit card debt and create a plan to avoid it entirely.

The True Cost of Credit Card Debt

Interest rates on credit cards are not low. The average interest rate on credit card balances is close to 14%. And depending upon your credit score and the type of credit card you use, the interest rate could be a lot higher. One of the most expensive forms of credit is a store credit card. Macy's, for example, charges everyone 25.49% APR regardless of their credit score.

While a credit card can be a convenient way to finance short-term borrowing, it can become very expensive over the long term. If you borrow $1,000 this holiday season and pay only the minimum due, it will take:

109 months to pay off the debt and you will end up spending $1,732.15 in total payments if the interest rate is 14%

Over 30 years to pay off the debt and you will end up spending $9,798.48 in total payments if the interest rate is 25%, like the Macy's credit card.

These calculations were made using the BankRate credit card calculator, and you can input your own situation to see the true cost of your shopping.

4 Tips To Avoid Debt

Using a credit card for your holiday shopping can make a lot of sense. In general, with a credit card you have better legal protection and you also have the opportunity to earn lucrative rewards. But there is a danger: studies routinely show that people spend more money when using credit cards. If you want the benefits of credit cards without the risk of over-spending, consider these four suggestions:

Create a written holiday budget before you start spending. If you don't tell your money where to go, it has a tendency to disappear. Far too many people simply don't set a realistic budget for the holidays in advance. It is better to make difficult spending decisions before you start shopping, rather than waiting until you are in the store facing temptation. Make regular payments from your checking account to your credit card. You do not need to wait until the statement appears to make your credit card payment. As you do your holiday shopping, you can make additional payments from your checking account to your credit card. You can manage your budget more closely by watching your checking account balance decrease as you spend money. Take advantage of email and text message alerts. Most credit card companies offer free alerting services. You can control the settings. At a minimum, set up daily alerts that notify you of your account balance. You can stay on top of your budget daily, and by automating the alerts you will not be able to ignore what you have spent. Use a separate card just for holiday spending. People sometimes get confused when extra holiday spending is mixed with other expenses. You might want to consider using a separate card just for your holiday shopping. If you set a budget of $1,000 for your holidays, you could use a card and get daily text alerts. That way you will know how to manage holiday expenses in one place.

If all of the above fails, consider using the tried and tested "envelope" method. (Unfortunately this does not work if you do most of your holiday shopping online). Just take cash out of your bank account that is budgeted for the holidays. Create an envelope for each category (for example, "gift for Mom.") As you shop, you can only use the cash in each envelope and no cards are allowed. You will give up the reward points, but you will definitely stay on budget.