Hollywood feels the Force with electrifying 'Rogue One' premiere
Hollywood feels the Force with electrifying 'Rogue One' premiere
LOS ANGELES — The world premiere of may not have matched the scale of (which cordoned off a quarter mile of Hollywood Boulevard and packed three movie theaters with euphoric fans last December), but it certainly wasn't lacking in spectacle. Forgoing the Chinese, Dolby and El Capitan where debuted, headed further down the street on Dec. 10, dominating several blocks around Hollywood's historic Pantages Theatre, where a full scale X-Wing fighter was parked out front — ready for our rebels to make a clean getaway if the Empire showed up. A view of the atmosphere at the world premiere of Lucasfilm's first-ever standalone Star Wars adventure, "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" at the Pantages Theatre. Image:  Getty Images for Disney Taking its cue from last year's premiere, the red carpet was tented to stave off a brisk December breeze, and once inside, attendees were ushered past displays featuring the film's costumes and portraits of the stars. Further illustrating that was designed to stand alone from the so-called "saga" films that follow the Skywalker family, the premiere was absent any cast members from previous installments in the franchise, save for Anthony Daniels (C-3PO) and Peter Mayhew (Chewbacca) — perhaps to prevent zealous journalists on the carpet from shifting the focus to next year's before the rebels had their day. SEE ALSO: Everything you wanted to know about 'Rogue One' but were afraid to ask The event certainly wasn't lacking in star power, however. 's stars — including Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Alan Tudyk, Ben Mendelsohn, Mads Mikkelsen, Riz Ahmed and Donnie Yen — were joined by genre luminaries such as Joss Whedon, Bryan Fuller and Kevin Smith, along with fellow A-list fans including Michael Douglas, Aisha Tyler, Wil Wheaton, Geena Davis, Bill Nye and Christian Bale. While the urge to stop for selfies was strong, guests were reminded to stay on target and head for the theatre entrance, lest they incur the wrath of the Stormtroopers that were on hand to keep things running smoothly. Security is *really* tight at the #RogueOne premiere. pic.twitter.com/WMae6NXxki — Chris Taylor (@FutureBoy) December 11, 2016 Unsurprisingly, security was tighter than a Death Star trash compactor, with bomb-sniffing dogs on hand and metal detectors set up on every sidewalk surrounding the theatre, even for pedestrians who were just trying to go about their business. Upon reaching the Pantages, attendees were allowed to keep their phones, as long as they were sealed in nifty Yondr pouches that were locked while on the premises to prevent piracy — a nice workaround to last year's arduous process of checking phones in at the door and having to line up to retrieve them after the screening. While the premiere paid homage to the franchise's legacy with an on-stage introduction that showcased the various producers, cast members and droids involved before the film began, got right to business, dimming the lights and rolling the movie with no preamble from director Gareth Edwards or his collaborators. SEE ALSO: 'Rogue One' director justifies reshoots: 'Star Wars has to be fantastic' Thankfully, despite the presence of the X-Wing outside, no emergency getaways were needed — the mood in the theater was nothing short of rapturous, and numerous scenes were punctuated with exuberant cheers and applause, which were earned by smaller character moments and spectacular action scenes in equal measure. By the time the credits rolled, the crowd was on its feet for a standing ovation. Official reviews are embargoed until Dec. 13, but that didn't stop guests from sharing their first impressions on social media following the screening — most of which were overwhelmingly positive: Holy Sith! @RogueOneMovie is unbelievably wonderful! No lie: it is #EmpireStrikesBack great! An excellent chapter in the @starwars Universe! pic.twitter.com/Lb0vQ06ifh — KevinSmith (@ThatKevinSmith) December 11, 2016 #RogueOne is pretty much everything I was hoping for & then some. So moving/satisfying for so many reasons. Already dying for a 2nd viewing. — Perri Nemiroff (@PNemiroff) December 11, 2016 So... #RogueOne ? It's freaking great! So many crowd-pleasing moments! It's emotional, exciting and incredibly satisfying. Loved it! — Eric Goldman (@TheEricGoldman) December 11, 2016 The last time I loved a Star Wars movie as much as I loved #RogueOne , it was 1977. — Wil Wheaton (@wilw) December 11, 2016 One of the best things about Rogue One are the new characters. They're so well done and expand the universe. You care about all of them. — Steven Weintraub (@colliderfrosty) December 11, 2016 #RogueOne is FANTASTIC. Incredible action, both planetary and interstellar, and looks GORGEOUS. Most importantly, it feels like Star Wars. — Terri Schwartz (@Terri_Schwartz) December 11, 2016 Star Wars fans will be very happy with #RogueOne . It's fun, action packed, doesn't feel neutered by reshoots. Donnie Yen and K2so standouts. — Peter Sciretta (@slashfilm) December 11, 2016 FELICITY JONES 🙌 DONNIE YEN 🙌🙌 #RogueOne you were a thrill — jen yamato (@jenyamato) December 11, 2016 #RogueOne is pulpy and fun, but it's got more plot than heart. I'd rank it fifth overall, behind Episodes IV-VII. — William Bibbiani (@WilliamBibbiani) December 11, 2016 Holy crap did I love Rogue One. It’s gonna take days to wipe the smile off my face. So many surprises and so much fun. Get excited. — Germain Lussier (@GermainLussier) December 11, 2016 There are moments of joy in #RogueOne that absolutely rival the original trilogy. It feels both timeless and timely. 👏 — Laura Prudom (@LauInLA) December 11, 2016 Slightly longer #RogueOne spoiler-free review: heart-stopping and dark. Like darker than Empire Strikes Back dark. — Chris Taylor (@FutureBoy) December 11, 2016 After the premiere, giddy guests headed up the street (still sheltered by the gargantuan tent) to Hollywood nightclub Avalon, where they could snag photo ops with Stormtroopers and Darth Vader — if they dared — or test out a 360 virtual reality experience that put them in the cockpit of their own X-wing during a blistering battle with the Imperial fleet. The afterparty had a distinctly Imperial theme, with Death Star decor and Stormtrooper helmets on display. Image:  Getty Images for Disney Attendees who wanted to dabble in the Dark Side could sip on a forceful tequila cocktail dubbed The Imperial, while Alliance members could show their allegiance with a vodka-cranberry libation called The Rebel. To feed the sarlacc in their stomachs, snacks included chicken breast, lamb shanks or mac and cheese, followed by Death Star cake pops. By midnight, things were winding down, leaving sore-footed guests to try and remember where they parked their tauntauns as they began the long trek home from a galaxy far, far away. Thankfully, we'll only have to wait until Thursday for a return visit. If an X-wing isn't your style, the afterparty boasted a TIE fighter. Image:  Getty Images for Disney

LOS ANGELES — The world premiere of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story may not have matched the scale of The Force Awakens (which cordoned off a quarter mile of Hollywood Boulevard and packed three movie theaters with euphoric fans last December), but it certainly wasn't lacking in spectacle.

Forgoing the Chinese, Dolby and El Capitan where The Force Awakens debuted, Rogue One headed further down the street on Dec. 10, dominating several blocks around Hollywood's historic Pantages Theatre, where a full scale X-Wing fighter was parked out front — ready for our rebels to make a clean getaway if the Empire showed up.

A view of the atmosphere at the world premiere of Lucasfilm's first-ever standalone Star Wars adventure, "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" at the Pantages Theatre. Image: Getty Images for Disney

Taking its cue from last year's Force Awakens premiere, the red carpet was tented to stave off a brisk December breeze, and once inside, attendees were ushered past displays featuring the film's costumes and portraits of the stars.

Further illustrating that Rogue One was designed to stand alone from the so-called "saga" films that follow the Skywalker family, the premiere was absent any cast members from previous installments in the franchise, save for Anthony Daniels (C-3PO) and Peter Mayhew (Chewbacca) — perhaps to prevent zealous journalists on the carpet from shifting the focus to next year's Episode VIII before the rebels had their day.

The event certainly wasn't lacking in star power, however. Rogue One's stars — including Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Alan Tudyk, Ben Mendelsohn, Mads Mikkelsen, Riz Ahmed and Donnie Yen — were joined by genre luminaries such as Joss Whedon, Bryan Fuller and Kevin Smith, along with fellow A-list fans including Michael Douglas, Aisha Tyler, Wil Wheaton, Geena Davis, Bill Nye and Christian Bale.

While the urge to stop for selfies was strong, guests were reminded to stay on target and head for the thermal exhaust port theatre entrance, lest they incur the wrath of the Stormtroopers that were on hand to keep things running smoothly.

Unsurprisingly, security was tighter than a Death Star trash compactor, with bomb-sniffing dogs on hand and metal detectors set up on every sidewalk surrounding the theatre, even for pedestrians who were just trying to go about their business.

Upon reaching the Pantages, attendees were allowed to keep their phones, as long as they were sealed in nifty Yondr pouches that were locked while on the premises to prevent piracy — a nice workaround to last year's arduous process of checking phones in at the door and having to line up to retrieve them after the screening.

While the Force Awakens premiere paid homage to the franchise's legacy with an on-stage introduction that showcased the various producers, cast members and droids involved before the film began, Rogue One got right to business, dimming the lights and rolling the movie with no preamble from director Gareth Edwards or his collaborators.

Thankfully, despite the presence of the X-Wing outside, no emergency getaways were needed — the mood in the theater was nothing short of rapturous, and numerous scenes were punctuated with exuberant cheers and applause, which were earned by smaller character moments and spectacular action scenes in equal measure. By the time the credits rolled, the crowd was on its feet for a standing ovation.

Official reviews are embargoed until Dec. 13, but that didn't stop guests from sharing their first impressions on social media following the screening — most of which were overwhelmingly positive:

#RogueOne is pretty much everything I was hoping for & then some. So moving/satisfying for so many reasons. Already dying for a 2nd viewing. — Perri Nemiroff (@PNemiroff) December 11, 2016

So... #RogueOne? It's freaking great! So many crowd-pleasing moments! It's emotional, exciting and incredibly satisfying. Loved it! — Eric Goldman (@TheEricGoldman) December 11, 2016

The last time I loved a Star Wars movie as much as I loved #RogueOne, it was 1977. — Wil Wheaton (@wilw) December 11, 2016

One of the best things about Rogue One are the new characters. They're so well done and expand the universe. You care about all of them. — Steven Weintraub (@colliderfrosty) December 11, 2016

#RogueOne is FANTASTIC. Incredible action, both planetary and interstellar, and looks GORGEOUS. Most importantly, it feels like Star Wars. — Terri Schwartz (@Terri_Schwartz) December 11, 2016

Star Wars fans will be very happy with #RogueOne. It's fun, action packed, doesn't feel neutered by reshoots. Donnie Yen and K2so standouts. — Peter Sciretta (@slashfilm) December 11, 2016

FELICITY JONES 🙌

DONNIE YEN 🙌🙌#RogueOne you were a thrill — jen yamato (@jenyamato) December 11, 2016

#RogueOne is pulpy and fun, but it's got more plot than heart. I'd rank it fifth overall, behind Episodes IV-VII. — William Bibbiani (@WilliamBibbiani) December 11, 2016

Holy crap did I love Rogue One. It’s gonna take days to wipe the smile off my face. So many surprises and so much fun. Get excited. — Germain Lussier (@GermainLussier) December 11, 2016

There are moments of joy in #RogueOne that absolutely rival the original trilogy. It feels both timeless and timely. 👏 — Laura Prudom (@LauInLA) December 11, 2016

Slightly longer #RogueOne spoiler-free review: heart-stopping and dark. Like darker than Empire Strikes Back dark. — Chris Taylor (@FutureBoy) December 11, 2016

After the premiere, giddy guests headed up the street (still sheltered by the gargantuan tent) to Hollywood nightclub Avalon, where they could snag photo ops with Stormtroopers and Darth Vader — if they dared — or test out a 360 virtual reality experience that put them in the cockpit of their own X-wing during a blistering battle with the Imperial fleet.

The afterparty had a distinctly Imperial theme, with Death Star decor and Stormtrooper helmets on display. Image: Getty Images for Disney

Attendees who wanted to dabble in the Dark Side could sip on a forceful tequila cocktail dubbed The Imperial, while Alliance members could show their allegiance with a vodka-cranberry libation called The Rebel. To feed the sarlacc in their stomachs, snacks included chicken breast, lamb shanks or mac and cheese, followed by Death Star cake pops.

By midnight, things were winding down, leaving sore-footed guests to try and remember where they parked their tauntauns as they began the long trek home from a galaxy far, far away. Thankfully, we'll only have to wait until Thursday for a return visit.