Buckingham Palace bans smoking
Buckingham Palace bans smoking 
uckingham Palace has banned outside smoking at royal residences amid concerns about smoke drifting into nearby buildings. Up until now smoking has been allowed in designated outdoor areas within royal boundaries, including Kensington Palace where Prince Harry has a home in the grounds. ne of these areas was a yard near Buckingham Palace Road where staff take deliveries and which is cornered by royal offices. It is understood that the Royal Household has now banned smoking outright after concerns were raised about smoke drifting into the buildings from outside. Those with accommodation in the grounds, including members of the Royal family and live-in staff, will still be permitted to smoke inside their homes. However, anyone else will have to go outside of the grounds to light up. The ban will cover Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle, St James’s Palace, Kensington Palace and the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh. Clarence House has been smoke free for years at the behest of Prince Charles, who dislikes the habit. t is not known how many employees will be affected, but courtiers are allowing them to smoke e-cigarettes in the designated areas until May 21 next year as a "transitional measure". Prince Harry has smoked since his early teens, when he is believed to have picked up the habit at Eton. The Duchess of Cornwall was said to smoke around ten cigarettes a day before giving up 15 years ago. Princess Margaret was also a heavy smoker, despite the fact that her father King George VI suffered from lung cancer. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "Royal Household sites have been smoke free premises since November 21, 2016."

One of these areas was a yard near Buckingham Palace Road where staff take deliveries and which is cornered by royal offices.

It is understood that the Royal Household has now banned smoking outright after concerns were raised about smoke drifting into the buildings from outside.

Those with accommodation in the grounds, including members of the Royal family and live-in staff, will still be permitted to smoke inside their homes.

However, anyone else will have to go outside of the grounds to light up.

The ban will cover Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle, St James’s Palace, Kensington Palace and the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh.

Clarence House has been smoke free for years at the behest of Prince Charles, who dislikes the habit.