Demonetisation Is Illegal, Journalists Twitter Accounts Hacked And Other Must Read Stories
Demonetisation Is Illegal, Journalists Twitter Accounts Hacked And Other Must Read Stories
Demonetisation Is Illegal, Journalists Twitter Accounts Hacked And Other Must Read Stories One month after demonetisation, the Supreme Court is hearing several public interest petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the “demonetisation notification”, which declared that Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes would no longer be legal tender post midnight on November 8, 2016. The preamble to the notification stated that its objective was to eliminate fake currency used for financing terrorism and to address the problem of “unaccounted money” in the economy. Read More  1. PM Modi Says He's Ready To Face Punishment If Things Don't Become 'Normal' After 30 December Prime Minister Narendra Modi has once again asked people to remain calm and patient in the wake of demonitisation. He said that things will slowly become normal again. He said, “...Lekin pachas din ke baad maine hisab lagaya hai ki dheere, dheere, kar ke pehle jaisi sthithi ki taraf aage badhenge (After 50 days, I have calculated, we will slowly, slowly, move towards what the situation was earlier).” Read more 2. Manmohan Singh's Office Knew Changing Requirements To Fit AgustaWestland's Bid Says SP Tyagi Former IAF chief Shashindra Pal Tyagi claimed that the Prime Minister's Office was party to the decision in 2005 to change the operational requirements of choppers for IAF's VVIP squadron, which allegedly resulted in AgustaWestland bagging the order. Manmohan Singh was the prime minister at the time. The charge, fraught with serious political implications, was leveled by Tyagi's defence counsel N Hariharan while opposing CBI's plea for a 10-day remand for the former air chief and co accused — his cousin Sanjeev Tyagi and Delhi-based lawyer and alleged middleman Gautam Khaitan. Read more 3. ISIS Back Palmyra Just 9 Months After It Was 'Driven Out'. Assad, Russia Busy In Bombing Aleppo Just nine months after they were driven out of the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra, which is also a UNESCO world heritage site, the terror group has claimed of taking control of parts of the city.

One month after demonetisation, the Supreme Court is hearing several public interest petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the “demonetisation notification”, which declared that Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes would no longer be legal tender post midnight on November 8, 2016.

BCCL

The preamble to the notification stated that its objective was to eliminate fake currency used for financing terrorism and to address the problem of “unaccounted money” in the economy. Read More

1. PM Modi Says He's Ready To Face Punishment If Things Don't Become 'Normal' After 30 December

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has once again asked people to remain calm and patient in the wake of demonitisation. He said that things will slowly become normal again.

He said, “...Lekin pachas din ke baad maine hisab lagaya hai ki dheere, dheere, kar ke pehle jaisi sthithi ki taraf aage badhenge (After 50 days, I have calculated, we will slowly, slowly, move towards what the situation was earlier).” Read more

2. Manmohan Singh's Office Knew Changing Requirements To Fit AgustaWestland's Bid Says SP Tyagi

Former IAF chief Shashindra Pal Tyagi claimed that the Prime Minister's Office was party to the decision in 2005 to change the operational requirements of choppers for IAF's VVIP squadron, which allegedly resulted in AgustaWestland bagging the order.

Manmohan Singh was the prime minister at the time. The charge, fraught with serious political implications, was leveled by Tyagi's defence counsel N Hariharan while opposing CBI's plea for a 10-day remand for the former air chief and co accused — his cousin Sanjeev Tyagi and Delhi-based lawyer and alleged middleman Gautam Khaitan. Read more

3. ISIS Back Palmyra Just 9 Months After It Was 'Driven Out'. Assad, Russia Busy In Bombing Aleppo

Just nine months after they were driven out of the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra, which is also a UNESCO world heritage site, the terror group has claimed of taking control of parts of the city.

ISIS fighters entered Palmyra's northern and northwestern neighbourhoods on Saturday and nearly encircled the city, even though confusion remains over how much area have fallen to them. Read more

4. After Rahul & Mallya, 'Legion' Turns To Journos. Hacks Barkha Dutt And Ravish Kumar's Twitter Accounts, Says Lalit Modi Is Next

The hacker group, named 'Legion', has struck again. This time the targets were TV journalists Barkha Dutt And Ravish Kumar.

“We use twitter as a means to reach the public. We don’t just hack twitter accounts. Go through the data and find out,” the hackers posted from Kumar's account. Read more

5. Pakistan Should Mend Its Ways Or We Will Tear It Into Ten Pieces, Says Rajnath Singh

Home Minister Rajnath Singh On Sunday hit out at Pakistan for trying to divide India on religious lines. Addressing a rally in Kashmir's Kathua, Singh said Pakistan wants to break off Jammu and Kashmir from India through terrorism, but it should know that terrorism is the weapon of the "coward" and not the "brave".

He also said even after India offered to improve the bilateral ties, Pakistan has resorted to supporting terrorists in Kashmir. Read more