Calgary Zoo: Mystery after seven penguins drown at Calgary Zoo
Calgary Zoo: Mystery after seven penguins drown at Calgary Zoo
Seven penguins have been found dead at a zoo in Canada in mysterious circumstances, prompting an investigation. The birds were said to have drowned in a holding area at the back of Calgary Zoo in Alberta, shortly before they were due to perform in the park’s Penguin Plunge show. Veterinary experts said the Humboldt penguins may have been panicked by something which occurred near their pen, and zoo keepers are studying CCTV footage for clues as to why they died. Read more New Zealand town builds underpass to help penguins safely cross road Penguin gets into huge fight over female after her mate comes home Penguin gets custom wetsuit because she's losing her feathers The entrance and exits to the holding area were fully secured, and there is no indication yet whether a loud noise may have scared the birds. "It was very surprising for us to find this group of birds dead," Jamie Dorgan, the zoo's director of animal care, told . “Our penguin keeper was quite shocked to see that multiple penguins were dead in the pool. “What caused these animals to get into a situation where they would have drowned is something we are going to look at. It seems to be some stressor led to these birds going into some kind of panic… but it's hard to say what could have triggered that.” World news in pictures               World news in pictures    11 December 2016   Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, President Tayyip Erdogan and Former President Abdullah Gul pray during a ceremony for police officers killed in Saturday's blasts in Istanbul, Turkey   Reuters     11 December 2016   More than 20 people were killed in a suicide truck bombing in the Somali capital Mogadishu, police said, in a fresh strike claimed by the Al-Qaeda-linked Shabaab group   Getty     11 December 2016   Members of U.S. Army Special Forces provide training for Iraqi fighters from Hashid Shaabi at Makhmur camp in Iraq   Reuters     11 December 2016   Chinese dancers perform during a rehearsal of 'Chinese Dance: Maestros & Classics', the closing performance of the NCPA Dance Festival 2016 at the National Centre for the Perfoming Arts (NCPA) Theatre in Beijing, China   EPA     11 December 2016   Chinese dancers perform during a rehearsal of 'Chinese Dance: Maestros & Classics', the closing performance of the NCPA Dance Festival 2016 at the National Centre for the Perfoming Arts (NCPA) Theatre in Beijing, China   EPA     11 December 2016   Kenyan police officers search for the remains of victims at the crash site of a truck that rammed into several vehicles before bursting into flames near Karai on the busy Naivasha highway, some 85 kms west of Nairobi   Getty     11 December 2016   A nun stands inside the damaged St. Peter and St. Paul Coptic Orthodox Church after a bombing in Cairo, Egypt   EPA     11 December 2016   Rescue workers tend to the scene of a church roof collapse at Reigners Bible Church in Uyo, Nigeria   EPA     10 December 2016   Nobel Peace Prize laureate Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos poses with the medal and diploma during the award ceremony of the Nobel Peace Prize   Getty     10 December 2016   Police officers comfort each other after explosions near the Besiktas football club stadium Vodafone Arena in Istanbul. Turkey   AP     10 December 2016   Turkish forensic police officers work next to bodies front of a water cannon vehicle on the site where a car bomb exploded near the stadium of football club Besiktas in central Istanbul   Getty     8 December 2016   A woman stands on the ruin of a market after an earthquake in Meureudu, Aceh province, Indonesia   AP     8 December 2016   A police investigator takes pictures of Nora Acielo, 47, after she was gunned down by unidentified men while she was escorting her two children to school in Manila, Philippines   Reuters     5 December 2016   The sun rises behind skyscrapers amidst the clouds on a foggy morning in Dubai   Getty     5 December 2016   An Iraqi soldier gestures as he steps on the head of the dead body of who Iraqi forces say was an Islamic State militant, in Shayyalah al-Imam near Mosul   Reuters     5 December 2016   A man checks the damage at a medical clinic following overnight government air strikes on the town of Binnish, in Syria's northwestern Idlib province   Getty     5 December 2016   A quarantine official disinfects a road leading to a chicken farm in Pyeongtaek, west of Seoul, South Korea. A suspected case of avian influenza was reported at the farm   EPA     5 December 2016   Rescue workers stand beside the bodies of the victims following a fire at a local hotel, at a hospital in Karachi, Pakistan   EPA     5 December 2016   Iraqis ride bicycles between Baghdad's Abu Nawas street and the suspension bridge in the capital's Karrada district during an event calling for peace and the eradication of the Islamic State (IS) group   Getty     5 December 2016   Iraqis gather prior to cycling between Baghdad's Abu Nawas street and the suspension bridge in the capital's Karrada district during an event calling for peace and the eradication of the Islamic State (IS) group   Getty     5 December 2016   The bust of the late President Park Chung-hee is seen spray painted in a park in Seoul, South Korea. The bust was vandalized in an apparent anonymous act of discontent with his daughter and incumbent President Park Geun-hye who is suspected of having been involved in an unprecedented corruption scandal. The grafitti reads 'Order of Removal'   EPA     4 December 2016   Young people march around the Plaza de la Revolucion and chant 'Yo soy Fidel,' 'I am Fidel' in English, before the arrival of the remains of former Cuban President Fidel Castro during on their four-day journey across the country in Santiago de Cuba, Cuba   Getty     4 December 2016   The urn with the ashes of Cuban leader Fidel Castro leaves Revolution Square in Santiago, Cuba on its way to the cemetery   Getty     4 December 2016   A Honduran soldier confronts fans of Real Espana football team following clashes after Platense qualified for the Honduran Tournament final, outside the Municipal Excelsior stadium in Puerto Cortes, 260 kms north of Tegucigalpa   Getty     4 December 2016   People take part in a nation-wide protest against corruption at Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil   Getty     4 December 2016   Demonstrators protest along Paulista Avenue in Sao Paulo, Brazil against corruption and in support of the Lava Jato anti-corruption operation that investigates the bribes scandal of Petrobras   Getty     4 December 2016   Cuban President Raul Castro places the urn with the ashes of his brother Fidel Castro in his tomb at the Santa Ifigenia cemetery in Santiago de Cuba   Getty  Over 20 birds live within the Humboldt colony at the zoo, alongside king, gentoo and rockhopper penguins. "It seems like a bit of a mystery," Rob Laidlaw of Zoocheck Canada added. "I can't really imagine… what could have happened.” A number of animals, including a 12-year-old river otter and giant capybara, have died in the care of Calgary Zoo over the past decade. Two staff members were disciplined for the otter’s death. More about: Penguins Canada Calgary Zoo Comments

Seven penguins have been found dead at a zoo in Canada in mysterious circumstances, prompting an investigation.

The birds were said to have drowned in a holding area at the back of Calgary Zoo in Alberta, shortly before they were due to perform in the park’s Penguin Plunge show.

Veterinary experts said the Humboldt penguins may have been panicked by something which occurred near their pen, and zoo keepers are studying CCTV footage for clues as to why they died.

The entrance and exits to the holding area were fully secured, and there is no indication yet whether a loud noise may have scared the birds.

"It was very surprising for us to find this group of birds dead," Jamie Dorgan, the zoo's director of animal care, told CBC News. “Our penguin keeper was quite shocked to see that multiple penguins were dead in the pool.

“What caused these animals to get into a situation where they would have drowned is something we are going to look at. It seems to be some stressor led to these birds going into some kind of panic… but it's hard to say what could have triggered that.”

World news in pictures







27 show all World news in pictures



















































1/27 11 December 2016 Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim, President Tayyip Erdogan and Former President Abdullah Gul pray during a ceremony for police officers killed in Saturday's blasts in Istanbul, Turkey Reuters

2/27 11 December 2016 More than 20 people were killed in a suicide truck bombing in the Somali capital Mogadishu, police said, in a fresh strike claimed by the Al-Qaeda-linked Shabaab group Getty

3/27 11 December 2016 Members of U.S. Army Special Forces provide training for Iraqi fighters from Hashid Shaabi at Makhmur camp in Iraq Reuters

4/27 11 December 2016 Chinese dancers perform during a rehearsal of 'Chinese Dance: Maestros & Classics', the closing performance of the NCPA Dance Festival 2016 at the National Centre for the Perfoming Arts (NCPA) Theatre in Beijing, China EPA

5/27 11 December 2016 Chinese dancers perform during a rehearsal of 'Chinese Dance: Maestros & Classics', the closing performance of the NCPA Dance Festival 2016 at the National Centre for the Perfoming Arts (NCPA) Theatre in Beijing, China EPA

6/27 11 December 2016 Kenyan police officers search for the remains of victims at the crash site of a truck that rammed into several vehicles before bursting into flames near Karai on the busy Naivasha highway, some 85 kms west of Nairobi Getty

7/27 11 December 2016 A nun stands inside the damaged St. Peter and St. Paul Coptic Orthodox Church after a bombing in Cairo, Egypt EPA

8/27 11 December 2016 Rescue workers tend to the scene of a church roof collapse at Reigners Bible Church in Uyo, Nigeria EPA

9/27 10 December 2016 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos poses with the medal and diploma during the award ceremony of the Nobel Peace Prize Getty

10/27 10 December 2016 Police officers comfort each other after explosions near the Besiktas football club stadium Vodafone Arena in Istanbul. Turkey AP

11/27 10 December 2016 Turkish forensic police officers work next to bodies front of a water cannon vehicle on the site where a car bomb exploded near the stadium of football club Besiktas in central Istanbul Getty

12/27 8 December 2016 A woman stands on the ruin of a market after an earthquake in Meureudu, Aceh province, Indonesia AP

13/27 8 December 2016 A police investigator takes pictures of Nora Acielo, 47, after she was gunned down by unidentified men while she was escorting her two children to school in Manila, Philippines Reuters

14/27 5 December 2016 The sun rises behind skyscrapers amidst the clouds on a foggy morning in Dubai Getty

15/27 5 December 2016 An Iraqi soldier gestures as he steps on the head of the dead body of who Iraqi forces say was an Islamic State militant, in Shayyalah al-Imam near Mosul Reuters

16/27 5 December 2016 A man checks the damage at a medical clinic following overnight government air strikes on the town of Binnish, in Syria's northwestern Idlib province Getty

17/27 5 December 2016 A quarantine official disinfects a road leading to a chicken farm in Pyeongtaek, west of Seoul, South Korea. A suspected case of avian influenza was reported at the farm EPA

18/27 5 December 2016 Rescue workers stand beside the bodies of the victims following a fire at a local hotel, at a hospital in Karachi, Pakistan EPA

19/27 5 December 2016 Iraqis ride bicycles between Baghdad's Abu Nawas street and the suspension bridge in the capital's Karrada district during an event calling for peace and the eradication of the Islamic State (IS) group Getty

20/27 5 December 2016 Iraqis gather prior to cycling between Baghdad's Abu Nawas street and the suspension bridge in the capital's Karrada district during an event calling for peace and the eradication of the Islamic State (IS) group Getty

21/27 5 December 2016 The bust of the late President Park Chung-hee is seen spray painted in a park in Seoul, South Korea. The bust was vandalized in an apparent anonymous act of discontent with his daughter and incumbent President Park Geun-hye who is suspected of having been involved in an unprecedented corruption scandal. The grafitti reads 'Order of Removal' EPA

22/27 4 December 2016 Young people march around the Plaza de la Revolucion and chant 'Yo soy Fidel,' 'I am Fidel' in English, before the arrival of the remains of former Cuban President Fidel Castro during on their four-day journey across the country in Santiago de Cuba, Cuba Getty

23/27 4 December 2016 The urn with the ashes of Cuban leader Fidel Castro leaves Revolution Square in Santiago, Cuba on its way to the cemetery Getty

24/27 4 December 2016 A Honduran soldier confronts fans of Real Espana football team following clashes after Platense qualified for the Honduran Tournament final, outside the Municipal Excelsior stadium in Puerto Cortes, 260 kms north of Tegucigalpa Getty

25/27 4 December 2016 People take part in a nation-wide protest against corruption at Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Getty

26/27 4 December 2016 Demonstrators protest along Paulista Avenue in Sao Paulo, Brazil against corruption and in support of the Lava Jato anti-corruption operation that investigates the bribes scandal of Petrobras Getty

27/27 4 December 2016 Cuban President Raul Castro places the urn with the ashes of his brother Fidel Castro in his tomb at the Santa Ifigenia cemetery in Santiago de Cuba Getty

Over 20 birds live within the Humboldt colony at the zoo, alongside king, gentoo and rockhopper penguins.

"It seems like a bit of a mystery," Rob Laidlaw of Zoocheck Canada added. "I can't really imagine… what could have happened.”

A number of animals, including a 12-year-old river otter and giant capybara, have died in the care of Calgary Zoo over the past decade. Two staff members were disciplined for the otter’s death.