Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik's Aircraft Got Stuck On The Runway And Police Had To Push It, Really!
Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik's Aircraft Got Stuck On The Runway And Police Had To Push It, Really!
Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik's Aircraft Got Stuck On The Runway And Police Had To Push It, Really! We have all at some point pushed our vehicle or had to help some friend push a vehicle stuck due to technical faults. But what if it happens to a chief minister and the 'vehicle' happened to be an aircraft. Well it really happened The aircraft carrying Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had pushed and pulled on the runway of an airport by the security personnel. According to India Today, police personnel from Rourkela had to push Patnaik's aircraft as it underwent some technical difficulties while landing in Rourkela Airport. The Chief Minister's flight stood idle on the runway for a while after landing. The officials had to clear the runway as another aircraft carrying  Vice President Hamid Ansari was approaching the airport. Vice President and Chief Minister had visited Rourkela for Inaugurating and attending the opening ceremony of Grameen Hockey Championship of the state being held to  mark the centenary celebrations of former state Chief Minister Biju Patnaik.

We have all at some point pushed our vehicle or had to help some friend push a vehicle stuck due to technical faults. But what if it happens to a chief minister and the 'vehicle' happened to be an aircraft.

Well it really happened

The aircraft carrying Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had pushed and pulled on the runway of an airport by the security personnel.

According to India Today, police personnel from Rourkela had to push Patnaik's aircraft as it underwent some technical difficulties while landing in Rourkela Airport. The Chief Minister's flight stood idle on the runway for a while after landing.

The officials had to clear the runway as another aircraft carrying Vice President Hamid Ansari was approaching the airport.

BCCL/ File

Vice President and Chief Minister had visited Rourkela for Inaugurating and attending the opening ceremony of Grameen Hockey Championship of the state being held to mark the centenary celebrations of former state Chief Minister Biju Patnaik.