Trump to Get Inaugural Timepiece From Ailing Swiss Watchmaker
Trump to Get Inaugural Timepiece From Ailing Swiss Watchmaker
Following a tradition that began with Harry Truman, President-elect Donald Trump will receive a mechanical Swiss-made timepiece for his inauguration, even as the producer of the watch cuts more than half of its staff to deal with an industry downturn. Almost every U.S. president has received a Vulcain Cricket as a gift ever since Truman purchased a gold version of the mechanical alarm watch while living in the White House, according to the watchmaker. Whether the tradition ends after Trump remains to be seen. Vulcain is cutting seven of its 12 positions as the luxury watch industry suffers a slump in demand. Vulcain Cricket watch “We’re small and we’re struggling as we also compete with the big players who have more brand recognition,” Daniel Wechsler, Vulcain’s vice president of sales and marketing, said by phone, confirming the job losses. “Without much fat on the ribs to weather such times, smaller brands take a bigger hit.” Vulcain, best known for the president’s watch, illustrates the turmoil in the Swiss watch industry, which is in its longest slump in more than two decades. Swiss watchmakers are backtracking after the country exported more than 500 million timepieces during that period. Brands like Cartier and Vacheron Constantin have been cutting jobs and repurchasing inventory as some models fail to sell. Cricket Sound  Vulcain, founded in 1858, produced the first wristwatch with a reliable mechanical alarm in 1947. The Cricket name came from the shrill metallic sound it makes, and the watch sells for about 7,000 francs ($6,970). The brand, which was relaunched in 2002 after disappearing in the 1980s, makes about 3,000 watches a year. Since 2009, the watchmaker has been owned by the Al-Rayes family of Saudi Arabia. Both Dwight Eisenhower and Lyndon Johnson could be seen wearing their Crickets frequently while in office. The Secret Service occasionally mistook Truman’s alarm for a bomb, according to the watchmaker. Trump may be the first recipient of a watch from Vulcain who already sold a line of timepieces. His signature line was available at U.S. department store Macy’s about a decade ago. Arcinfo, a local Swiss news website, reported Vulcain’s job cuts earlier and said the company may be for sale. Vulcain declined to comment on any possible change in ownership. Wechsler said he doesn’t know the rules on the value of gifts that U.S. commander-in-chiefs are allowed to receive, but Vulcain’s presents have never been returned. Instead, Vulcain’s headquarters, nestled in the Jura mountain town of Le Locle, features an exhibit of thank-you notes and photos from U.S. presidents.

Following a tradition that began with Harry Truman, President-elect Donald Trump will receive a mechanical Swiss-made timepiece for his inauguration, even as the producer of the watch cuts more than half of its staff to deal with an industry downturn.

Almost every U.S. president has received a Vulcain Cricket as a gift ever since Truman purchased a gold version of the mechanical alarm watch while living in the White House, according to the watchmaker. Whether the tradition ends after Trump remains to be seen. Vulcain is cutting seven of its 12 positions as the luxury watch industry suffers a slump in demand.

Vulcain Cricket watch Photographer: Clemens Bilan/Getty Images

“We’re small and we’re struggling as we also compete with the big players who have more brand recognition,” Daniel Wechsler, Vulcain’s vice president of sales and marketing, said by phone, confirming the job losses. “Without much fat on the ribs to weather such times, smaller brands take a bigger hit.”

Vulcain, best known for the president’s watch, illustrates the turmoil in the Swiss watch industry, which is in its longest slump in more than two decades. Swiss watchmakers are backtracking after the country exported more than 500 million timepieces during that period. Brands like Cartier and Vacheron Constantin have been cutting jobs and repurchasing inventory as some models fail to sell.

Cricket Sound

Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us. Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter. Business Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day. You will now receive the Business newsletter Politics The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington. You will now receive the Politics newsletter Markets The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes. You will now receive the Markets newsletter Technology Insights into what you'll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now. You will now receive the Technology newsletter Game Plan The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead. You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter Vulcain, founded in 1858, produced the first wristwatch with a reliable mechanical alarm in 1947. The Cricket name came from the shrill metallic sound it makes, and the watch sells for about 7,000 francs ($6,970). The brand, which was relaunched in 2002 after disappearing in the 1980s, makes about 3,000 watches a year. Since 2009, the watchmaker has been owned by the Al-Rayes family of Saudi Arabia.

Both Dwight Eisenhower and Lyndon Johnson could be seen wearing their Crickets frequently while in office. The Secret Service occasionally mistook Truman’s alarm for a bomb, according to the watchmaker.

Trump may be the first recipient of a watch from Vulcain who already sold a line of timepieces. His signature line was available at U.S. department store Macy’s about a decade ago.

Arcinfo, a local Swiss news website, reported Vulcain’s job cuts earlier and said the company may be for sale. Vulcain declined to comment on any possible change in ownership.

Wechsler said he doesn’t know the rules on the value of gifts that U.S. commander-in-chiefs are allowed to receive, but Vulcain’s presents have never been returned. Instead, Vulcain’s headquarters, nestled in the Jura mountain town of Le Locle, features an exhibit of thank-you notes and photos from U.S. presidents.