France announces 'clean sticker' anti-pollution measures as cities choke on smog
France announces 'clean sticker' anti-pollution measures as cities choke on smog 

rench motorists in heavily polluted areas will be required to display a “clean sticker” from January amid rising alarm over smog in Paris and other cities, blamed for tens of thousands of deaths every year. Ségolène Royal, the environment minister, also announced financial incentives to buy electric vehicles as pressure grew on the government after doctors called for urgent action. Paris hospitals reported a 30 per cent increase in the number of children admitted to hospital for respiratory ailments this month during the capital’s worst spell of winter pollution in for 10 years. “We estimate that fine-particle pollution causes 48,000 premature deaths a year in France, or nine per cent of deaths overall,” said Sylvia Medina of Public Health France. Reducing pollution in French towns and cities to levels recommended by the World Health Organisation would lower the number of deaths by more than 17,000, Dr Medina said. he health minister, Marisol Touraine, put hospitals on high alert for emergency respiratory problems after the level of PM10 particulates in Paris rose as high as 146 microgrammes per cubic metre of air at the beginning of this month. While high by European standards, that is still only a fraction of the levels in New Delhi, the world’s most polluted capital, where PM10 was as high as 700. From January 16, vehicles without stickers, which will indicate their age, engine type (petrol or diesel) and cleanliness rating, will be barred from entering high-emission zones at weekends. Only emergency vehicles, vintage cars and some delivery and security vans will be exempt. Ms Royal, the ex-partner of President Hollande, said the government was “taking the [pollution] problem seriously”. "What we now need is a clean transport revolution, responsible cities, electric vehicles in cities and different means of transportation,” she said. Paris imposed driving restrictions for four consecutive days last week, banning vehicles with odd or even number plates from the roads on alternate days. On Friday the scheme was extended to Lyon for the first time. Ms Royal also announced that car owners would be eligible for a €10,000 (£8,400) payment in return for replacing an older polluting vehicle for an electric one. She has asked motorways to waive tolls for electric cars.

French motorists in heavily polluted areas will be required to display a “clean sticker” from January amid rising alarm over smog in Paris and other cities, blamed for tens of thousands of deaths every year.

Ségolène Royal, the environment minister, also announced financial incentives to buy electric vehicles as pressure grew on the government after doctors called for urgent action.

Paris hospitals reported a 30 per cent increase in the number of children admitted to hospital for respiratory ailments this month during the capital’s worst spell of winter pollution in for 10 years.

“We estimate that fine-particle pollution causes 48,000 premature deaths a year in France, or nine per cent of deaths overall,” said Sylvia Medina of Public Health France.

Reducing pollution in French towns and cities to levels recommended by the World Health Organisation would lower the number of deaths by more than 17,000, Dr Medina said.