Snoop Dogg's Puff Puff Pass Tour Salutes Weed & West Coast Hip-Hop in Los Angeles
Snoop Dogg's Puff Puff Pass Tour Salutes Weed & West Coast Hip-Hop in Los Angeles
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Snoop Dogg's Puff Puff Pass Tour Salutes Weed & West Coast Hip-Hop in Los Angeles  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  With smoke filling the air, two lowriders sitting at each end of the stage, green lights permeating everywhere throughout the venue and marijuana leaf props sprinkled all over the stage, Saturday night (Dec. 10) at Los Angeles' Microsoft Theater felt like a celebration of the passing of Prop 64 (legalizing recreational marijuana in California) with part two of Snoop Dogg ’s Puff Puff Pass tour. The second installment of the successful 2001 tour featured nostalgic performances from Bone Thugs-n-Harmony , 2nd II None , Hi-C , Pamona City Movement and the LBC Movement, Warren G and Too Short in a jam-packed night saluting the love of weed and West Coast hip-hop. “I don’t think they really know this is our second home,” Wish Bone of Cleveland rap group Bone Thugs-n-Harmony shouted out to the crowd before the group ran through favorites like “First of the Month” and Notorious B.I.G. ’s “Let’s Ride." The group also shouted out their late Ruthless Records label head and West Coast legend, Eazy-E . “We are going to pay homage to our mentor,” the group told the crowd before going into “Foe Tha Love of $." They finished of their set with the 1996 Billboard Hot 100 chart-topping, Grammy award-winning single “Crossroads,” sayingm “We are going to dedicate this next song to all of our fallen soldiers." Real '90s West Coast hip-hop fans flashed back to the past with performances from Hi-C , who performed songs like his 1991 cut “I’m Not Your Puppet" and Compton rap group 2nd II None, past frequent collaborators of DJ Quik who went through songs like “2 Skankless”  and 1992’s “if You Want It," as well as Luniz , whose set ended with the 1995 cult classic “I Got 5 on It” alongside a dancing “Condom Man” mascot wearing the group’s namesake on a huge red chain. Feeling the good vibes in the air, Numskull of Luniz proclaimed, “I spent seven motherf---ing years in the pen. I’m back, n----."  It wouldn’t be a West Coast show without Warren G. The cool, calm and collected MC emerged from backstage in a white Adidas sweatshirt and eyeglasses to take the audience through songs like “This D.J.," “I Want It All," his verse from Mista Grimm ’s 1993 song “Indo Smoke" and the Dove Shack 's “Summertime in the LBC." Providing a chill contrast to the energetic vibe of the show, the Long Beach rapper ended his time on stage paying tribute to the beloved late Nate Dogg with hits the singer was featured on, including 50 Cent ’s “21 Questions," Fabolous ’ “You Can’t Deny It" and Dr. Dre ’s “Xxplosive." Though not there physically, final words from Nate Dogg played after Dr. Dre’s "Next Episode": “Smoke weed everyday”. Real 92.3’s Louie G had a trick up his sleeve when he came on stage during the show. “It’s only right I bring out the voice of L.A., Big Boy,” he said before bringing out someone who is an L.A. legend of his own, Big Boy of Real 92.3. It was only right the iconic radio host would offer a surprise guest from the beginning of his era reigning in radio, rapper Mack 10 . The West Coast MC performed songs like “Only in California” and his most popular-to-date, 1997’s “Backyard Boogie." “My name is Too Short and I represent East Oakland. That’s how we do that shit," the legendary West Coast rapper said in an intro to the crowd before launching into a slew of his own jams, like “Money on the Floor” (featuring E-40 ), “Don’t Fight the Feeling" and “I’m a Playa." “Do the ladies like to f--- or what?” the MC asked before playing Chris Brown ’s “Loyal” just for the hell of it. Appropriately, the stripped down set of the Oakland rapper would only feature a young woman twerking onstage in an emoji-themed crop top and cut-off shorts. Bishop Don Juan, decked out in his usual bright colored suits, over the top hat, blinged out goblin and cane, also made an appearance saying hello to the audience. “I got a new album coming out in two months. It’s called the Pimp Tape,” Too Short told the crowd before leaving the stage.  In the spirit of the Rams, who returned to Los Angeles this year, Snoop Dogg represented for the team wearing a Marshall Faulk jersey as he made his way on stage for his headlining set. The man of the hour got the crowd going with hits like “Still D.R.E.," “The Next Episode," “What’s My Name," and “Beautiful," as well as his verses from 50 Cent’s “P.I.M.P.," Wiz Khalifa ’s “You and Your Friends," DJ Khaled ’s “All I Do is Win," Bad Azz ’s “Wrong Idea" and Fat Joe & Remy Ma ’s “All the Way Up." Lighting a blunt on stage, the rapper kept to the likeness of the show, puffing and passing to a lucky attendee who was celebrating a birthday. The rapper even brought out collaborator Kurupt to join in on the fun. Snoop paid his own respects to the fallen MCs of hip-hop. “Anybody got love for my n---- Biggie Smalls?" the rapper asked in contrast to his infamous 1995 Source Awards acceptance speech. Years of growth and acceptance would have the rapper become more open in his love for the last East Coast legendary MC. Snoop also showed love to the late Nate Dogg. He played the popular "Boyz in the Hood" to a now buzzed crowd in a tribute to the late Eazy-E. Furthermore, he got the crowd hyped when he paid tribute to former Death Row Records labelmate and rap icon the late Tupac Shakur by going into a rendition of “America’s Most Wanted," It indeed was nothing but a gangsta party as Snoop closed out with his 2011 hit with Wiz Khalifa and Bruno Mars, “Young, Wild and Free,” before offering his last words to the crowd: “Smoke weed, muthaf---er." The crowd filed out of the venue to the sounds of Bob Marley ’s 1977 classic “Jammin." Attendees couldn’t get much "higher."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

With smoke filling the air, two lowriders sitting at each end of the stage, green lights permeating everywhere throughout the venue and marijuana leaf props sprinkled all over the stage, Saturday night (Dec. 10) at Los Angeles' Microsoft Theater felt like a celebration of the passing of Prop 64 (legalizing recreational marijuana in California) with part two of Snoop Dogg’s Puff Puff Pass tour. The second installment of the successful 2001 tour featured nostalgic performances from Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, 2nd II None, Hi-C, Pamona City Movement and the LBC Movement, Warren G and Too Short in a jam-packed night saluting the love of weed and West Coast hip-hop.

“I don’t think they really know this is our second home,” Wish Bone of Cleveland rap group Bone Thugs-n-Harmony shouted out to the crowd before the group ran through favorites like “First of the Month” and Notorious B.I.G.’s “Let’s Ride." The group also shouted out their late Ruthless Records label head and West Coast legend, Eazy-E. “We are going to pay homage to our mentor,” the group told the crowd before going into “Foe Tha Love of $." They finished of their set with the 1996 Billboard Hot 100 chart-topping, Grammy award-winning single “Crossroads,” sayingm “We are going to dedicate this next song to all of our fallen soldiers."

Real '90s West Coast hip-hop fans flashed back to the past with performances from Hi-C, who performed songs like his 1991 cut “I’m Not Your Puppet" and Compton rap group 2nd II None, past frequent collaborators of DJ Quik who went through songs like “2 Skankless” and 1992’s “if You Want It," as well as Luniz, whose set ended with the 1995 cult classic “I Got 5 on It” alongside a dancing “Condom Man” mascot wearing the group’s namesake on a huge red chain. Feeling the good vibes in the air, Numskull of Luniz proclaimed, “I spent seven motherf---ing years in the pen. I’m back, n----."

It wouldn’t be a West Coast show without Warren G. The cool, calm and collected MC emerged from backstage in a white Adidas sweatshirt and eyeglasses to take the audience through songs like “This D.J.," “I Want It All," his verse from Mista Grimm’s 1993 song “Indo Smoke" and the Dove Shack's “Summertime in the LBC." Providing a chill contrast to the energetic vibe of the show, the Long Beach rapper ended his time on stage paying tribute to the beloved late Nate Dogg with hits the singer was featured on, including 50 Cent’s “21 Questions," Fabolous’ “You Can’t Deny It" and Dr. Dre’s “Xxplosive." Though not there physically, final words from Nate Dogg played after Dr. Dre’s "Next Episode": “Smoke weed everyday”.

Real 92.3’s Louie G had a trick up his sleeve when he came on stage during the show. “It’s only right I bring out the voice of L.A., Big Boy,” he said before bringing out someone who is an L.A. legend of his own, Big Boy of Real 92.3. It was only right the iconic radio host would offer a surprise guest from the beginning of his era reigning in radio, rapper Mack 10. The West Coast MC performed songs like “Only in California” and his most popular-to-date, 1997’s “Backyard Boogie."

“My name is Too Short and I represent East Oakland. That’s how we do that shit," the legendary West Coast rapper said in an intro to the crowd before launching into a slew of his own jams, like “Money on the Floor” (featuring E-40), “Don’t Fight the Feeling" and “I’m a Playa." “Do the ladies like to f--- or what?” the MC asked before playing Chris Brown’s “Loyal” just for the hell of it. Appropriately, the stripped down set of the Oakland rapper would only feature a young woman twerking onstage in an emoji-themed crop top and cut-off shorts. Bishop Don Juan, decked out in his usual bright colored suits, over the top hat, blinged out goblin and cane, also made an appearance saying hello to the audience. “I got a new album coming out in two months. It’s called the Pimp Tape,” Too Short told the crowd before leaving the stage.

In the spirit of the Rams, who returned to Los Angeles this year, Snoop Dogg represented for the team wearing a Marshall Faulk jersey as he made his way on stage for his headlining set. The man of the hour got the crowd going with hits like “Still D.R.E.," “The Next Episode," “What’s My Name," and “Beautiful," as well as his verses from 50 Cent’s “P.I.M.P.," Wiz Khalifa’s “You and Your Friends," DJ Khaled’s “All I Do is Win," Bad Azz’s “Wrong Idea" and Fat Joe & Remy Ma’s “All the Way Up." Lighting a blunt on stage, the rapper kept to the likeness of the show, puffing and passing to a lucky attendee who was celebrating a birthday. The rapper even brought out collaborator Kurupt to join in on the fun.

Snoop paid his own respects to the fallen MCs of hip-hop. “Anybody got love for my n---- Biggie Smalls?" the rapper asked in contrast to his infamous 1995 Source Awards acceptance speech. Years of growth and acceptance would have the rapper become more open in his love for the last East Coast legendary MC. Snoop also showed love to the late Nate Dogg. He played the popular "Boyz in the Hood" to a now buzzed crowd in a tribute to the late Eazy-E. Furthermore, he got the crowd hyped when he paid tribute to former Death Row Records labelmate and rap icon the late Tupac Shakur by going into a rendition of “America’s Most Wanted," It indeed was nothing but a gangsta party as Snoop closed out with his 2011 hit with Wiz Khalifa and Bruno Mars, “Young, Wild and Free,” before offering his last words to the crowd: “Smoke weed, muthaf---er."

The crowd filed out of the venue to the sounds of Bob Marley’s 1977 classic “Jammin." Attendees couldn’t get much "higher."