Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14
Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14
Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14 Browns' Jackson wants Pryor to stop trash-talking Chargers RB Gordon day-to-day for hip, knee Injured finger won't sideline Stafford vs. Giants The Big Story for every NFL team Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Here are the most significant NFL players who got banged up in Week 14: Tannehill went down with a left knee injury after being hit low by Cardinals D-lineman Calais Campbell . Tannehill walked off the field with a significant limp and went to the locker room. Coach Adam Gase said after the game that the team feared a torn ACL, but it ended up only being an ACL/MCL sprain. Matt Moore , the Dolphins' backup, entered Sunday having thrown just 30 passes the past five years. Gase said surgery is not required and that the team doesn't have an exact timetable for Tannehill's recovery, but Tannehill is expected to miss at least the next couple of games Rodgers hobbled his way through the Seahawks game and came out for good with the Packers up 28-3 with 11 minutes left in the fourth quarter. The Packers said after the game that Rodgers hurt his right calf on the third play of the game, a 66-yard touchdown pass to WR Davante Adams . It was the left calf that Rodgers severely injured in 2014. The QB entered this week still bothered by a right hamstring injury that he sustained in Week 12. He has been a limited participant in practice since then. Stafford hit his throwing hand on Leonard Floyd 's hand while following through on a pass in the first half. Stafford did not miss any plays, but he put a glove on his throwing hand and had his middle finger wrapped after the game. A source told ESPN's Adam Schefter that Stafford suffered a PIP joint dislocation and torn ligaments to his middle finger, and he will be required to play the rest of the season with a glove covering it. Coach Jim Caldwell said on Monday that Stafford will play against the Giants in Week 15. Gordon was rolled up on during the first quarter, as he was attempting to recover what he thought was a Philip Rivers fumble. The second-year RB had to be carted off the field, and the Chargers eventually ruled him out. Rookie Kenneth Farrow replaced Gordon in the lineup. Bosa tried to deliver a big hit on Panthers QB Cam Newton in the second quarter, but he ended up hurting himself on the play. The 2016 No. 3 overall pick went to the locker room and was eventually ruled out with a neck injury. Forte sustained a right knee injury on the Jets' second offensive series of the game. It didn't take the team long to rule out the veteran running back. Bilal Powell should get the majority of the RB duties for New York with Khiry Robinson inactive. Forte has missed only eight games in nine career seasons. Cook injured his chest in the second quarter and was listed as questionable to return. After halftime, the team ruled their No. 1 tight end out for the remainder of the game; Richard Rodgers took Cook's spot in the lineup. Skrine sustained a concussion in the first half against the 49ers and was ruled out for the remainder of the game. The Jets also lost safety Marcus Gilchrist to a season-ending knee injury after he went down without any contact while covering a kickoff. Playing in his first game since Week 3 (triceps), Vereen suffered a concussion after catching a pass in the second quarter. He immediately went to the sideline and tossed his helmet. The medical staff took him directly to the locker room. Smith's head bounced off the turf hard after he went up for a pass in the second half. He stayed down for a while before being carted to the locker room. The 49ers quickly ruled Smith out for the game. Cobb was carted to the locker room in the second quarter after tweaking his right ankle. The injury occurred as Cobb was fighting for extra yards, and his right ankle got pinned under DeShawn Shead as he was simultaneously hit up high. The Packers officially listed Cobb as questionable, but he returned to the game after a quick trip to the locker room.  Sproles, who got blasted when trying to catch a punt, left the game to be evaluated for a concussion. Smallwood sustained a right knee injury, and the team ruled him out after halftime. Ryan Mathews is the lone Eagles RB to leave Sunday's game unscathed. Waynes, the Vikings' 2015 first-rounder, was ruled out of Sunday's game against the Jaguars because of a concussion. Terence Newman replaced him in the lineup. The team also ruled 2016 first-rounder Laquon Treadwell out with an ankle injury, and guard Brandon Fusco was carted off the field to be evaluated for a concussion after he banged his head on the turf. Glenn sustained a back injury in the first quarter and was listed as questionable. He returned at the start of the second half and was in and out of the lineup for the rest of the game. He had played through a back injury in recent weeks. Humphries left the game in the first half with a concussion and was ruled out, which caused the Cardinals to shuffle their offensive line. Arizona also lost three key defenders to injury on Sunday: DB/LB Deone Bucannon (right ankle), safety Tyvon Branch (groin) and cornerback Marcus Cooper (back). Ansah left the game against the Bears with a shoulder injury late in the second quarter. Trainers looked at him quickly on the sideline, and then he slammed his helmet on the ground in disgust before walking away. Ansah was in the locker room for a while before he returned to the game in the fourth quarter. Harris took a helmet to his right knee on a low block from Titans WR Harry Douglas in the second quarter. Harris was very upset after the play, thinking it was a cheap shot. The All-Pro CB walked off the field under his own power and returned to the game later in the drive. Mitchell left the game in the first quarter with a left knee injury and was listed as questionable. He has eight passes defended and one interception this season. Funchess left the game after a big hit on the Panthers' first drive of the game. The team officially listed him as questionable with a mouth injury, but he returned to the game and caught a touchdown pass in the second quarter. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Here are the most significant NFL players who got banged up in Week 14:

Ryan Tannehill, QB, Miami Dolphins: Tannehill went down with a left knee injury after being hit low by Cardinals D-lineman Calais Campbell. Tannehill walked off the field with a significant limp and went to the locker room. Coach Adam Gase said after the game that the team feared a torn ACL, but it ended up only being an ACL/MCL sprain. Matt Moore, the Dolphins' backup, entered Sunday having thrown just 30 passes the past five years. Gase said surgery is not required and that the team doesn't have an exact timetable for Tannehill's recovery, but Tannehill is expected to miss at least the next couple of games

Aaron Rodgers, QB, Green Bay Packers: Rodgers hobbled his way through the Seahawks game and came out for good with the Packers up 28-3 with 11 minutes left in the fourth quarter. The Packers said after the game that Rodgers hurt his right calf on the third play of the game, a 66-yard touchdown pass to WR Davante Adams. It was the left calf that Rodgers severely injured in 2014. The QB entered this week still bothered by a right hamstring injury that he sustained in Week 12. He has been a limited participant in practice since then.

Matthew Stafford, QB, Detroit Lions: Stafford hit his throwing hand on Leonard Floyd's hand while following through on a pass in the first half. Stafford did not miss any plays, but he put a glove on his throwing hand and had his middle finger wrapped after the game. A source told ESPN's Adam Schefter that Stafford suffered a PIP joint dislocation and torn ligaments to his middle finger, and he will be required to play the rest of the season with a glove covering it. Coach Jim Caldwell said on Monday that Stafford will play against the Giants in Week 15.

Melvin Gordon, RB, San Diego Chargers: Gordon was rolled up on during the first quarter, as he was attempting to recover what he thought was a Philip Rivers fumble. The second-year RB had to be carted off the field, and the Chargers eventually ruled him out. Rookie Kenneth Farrow replaced Gordon in the lineup.

Joey Bosa, DE, Chargers: Bosa tried to deliver a big hit on Panthers QB Cam Newton in the second quarter, but he ended up hurting himself on the play. The 2016 No. 3 overall pick went to the locker room and was eventually ruled out with a neck injury.

Matt Forte, RB, New York Jets: Forte sustained a right knee injury on the Jets' second offensive series of the game. It didn't take the team long to rule out the veteran running back. Bilal Powell should get the majority of the RB duties for New York with Khiry Robinson inactive. Forte has missed only eight games in nine career seasons.

Jared Cook, TE, Green Bay Packers: Cook injured his chest in the second quarter and was listed as questionable to return. After halftime, the team ruled their No. 1 tight end out for the remainder of the game; Richard Rodgers took Cook's spot in the lineup.

Buster Skrine, CB, Jets: Skrine sustained a concussion in the first half against the 49ers and was ruled out for the remainder of the game. The Jets also lost safety Marcus Gilchrist to a season-ending knee injury after he went down without any contact while covering a kickoff.

Shane Vereen, RB, New York Giants: Playing in his first game since Week 3 (triceps), Vereen suffered a concussion after catching a pass in the second quarter. He immediately went to the sideline and tossed his helmet. The medical staff took him directly to the locker room.

Torrey Smith, WR, San Francisco 49ers: Smith's head bounced off the turf hard after he went up for a pass in the second half. He stayed down for a while before being carted to the locker room. The 49ers quickly ruled Smith out for the game.

Randall Cobb, WR, Packers: Cobb was carted to the locker room in the second quarter after tweaking his right ankle. The injury occurred as Cobb was fighting for extra yards, and his right ankle got pinned under DeShawn Shead as he was simultaneously hit up high. The Packers officially listed Cobb as questionable, but he returned to the game after a quick trip to the locker room.

Darren Sproles and Wendell Smallwood, RBs, Philadelphia Eagles: Sproles, who got blasted when trying to catch a punt, left the game to be evaluated for a concussion. Smallwood sustained a right knee injury, and the team ruled him out after halftime. Ryan Mathews is the lone Eagles RB to leave Sunday's game unscathed.

Trae Waynes, CB, Minnesota Vikings: Waynes, the Vikings' 2015 first-rounder, was ruled out of Sunday's game against the Jaguars because of a concussion. Terence Newman replaced him in the lineup. The team also ruled 2016 first-rounder Laquon Treadwell out with an ankle injury, and guard Brandon Fusco was carted off the field to be evaluated for a concussion after he banged his head on the turf.

Cordy Glenn, LT, Buffalo Bills: Glenn sustained a back injury in the first quarter and was listed as questionable. He returned at the start of the second half and was in and out of the lineup for the rest of the game. He had played through a back injury in recent weeks.

D.J. Humphries, LT, Arizona Cardinals: Humphries left the game in the first half with a concussion and was ruled out, which caused the Cardinals to shuffle their offensive line. Arizona also lost three key defenders to injury on Sunday: DB/LB Deone Bucannon (right ankle), safety Tyvon Branch (groin) and cornerback Marcus Cooper (back).

Ezekiel Ansah, DE, Lions: Ansah left the game against the Bears with a shoulder injury late in the second quarter. Trainers looked at him quickly on the sideline, and then he slammed his helmet on the ground in disgust before walking away. Ansah was in the locker room for a while before he returned to the game in the fourth quarter.

Chris Harris Jr., CB, Denver Broncos: Harris took a helmet to his right knee on a low block from Titans WR Harry Douglas in the second quarter. Harris was very upset after the play, thinking it was a cheap shot. The All-Pro CB walked off the field under his own power and returned to the game later in the drive.

Mike Mitchell, S, Pittsburgh Steelers: Mitchell left the game in the first quarter with a left knee injury and was listed as questionable. He has eight passes defended and one interception this season.

Devin Funchess, WR, Carolina Panthers: Funchess left the game after a big hit on the Panthers' first drive of the game. The team officially listed him as questionable with a mouth injury, but he returned to the game and caught a touchdown pass in the second quarter.