The Best-Paying Jobs Of 2016
The Best-Paying Jobs Of 2016
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The majority of the positions on this year’s list of best-paying jobs require, as one might expect, intense training, education and/or experience. That’s simply what it takes to make the big money. The ranking, provided by CareerCast.com – a jobs and career information hub – is a collection of the top-earning professions from the company’s annual Jobs Rated Report —a roster of the best 200 jobs evaluated on metrics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and examined in the context of Environment, Income, Outlook, and Stress. We took CareerCast’s ranking of the best paying positions on the list – rated in order of median annual income – and folded it into an easy-to-view slideshow, which you will find below. The Best-Paying Jobs of 2016 One of the more lucrative of the professions on CareerCast’s Highest-Paying list , a general in the United States military, requires years of hard work and experience, officer training, as well as a well-rounded education outside of the armed forces. It also requires results and the respect of one’s superiors and the opportunities to advance to the top levels are rare, CareerCast notes. The end result, though, according to the numbers, is a median annual salary of $205,114. Not a bad payday, but ample compensation seems appropriate for someone whose decisions potentially guide many young people into harm’s way. This year’s list features a profession that allows its practitioners to spend a lot of time in a comfortable chair. But, of course, being a psychiatrist requires a lot more than just sitting quietly and listening. Getting accredited means earning a bachelor’s degree, finishing medical school, completing a residency and becoming board certified. This is a big commitment that can reap sizable rewards. According to CareerCast’s report, psychiatrists earn a median annual income of $207,153. The profession is also expected to see 14% growth between now and 2024. Shutterstock The top job on CareerCast’s list of highest paying professions is that of surgeon. To get to such a job requires years of committed study and practice. That includes a bachelor’s degree, a medical degree, a residency at a medical facility and a navigating a slim margin of error as far as mistakes are concerned. The result of all of that toil is a median annual income of $357,192 and a boatload of stress derived from holding the well-being of others in yours hands. The high salary invariably comes in handy, CareerCast notes, as medical students, on average, walk away from their education with about $170,000 in loan debt.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The majority of the positions on this year’s list of best-paying jobs require, as one might expect, intense training, education and/or experience. That’s simply what it takes to make the big money.

The ranking, provided by CareerCast.com – a jobs and career information hub – is a collection of the top-earning professions from the company’s annual Jobs Rated Report—a roster of the best 200 jobs evaluated on metrics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and examined in the context of Environment, Income, Outlook, and Stress.

We took CareerCast’s ranking of the best paying positions on the list – rated in order of median annual income – and folded it into an easy-to-view slideshow, which you will find below.

One of the more lucrative of the professions on CareerCast’s Highest-Paying list, a general in the United States military, requires years of hard work and experience, officer training, as well as a well-rounded education outside of the armed forces. It also requires results and the respect of one’s superiors and the opportunities to advance to the top levels are rare, CareerCast notes. The end result, though, according to the numbers, is a median annual salary of $205,114. Not a bad payday, but ample compensation seems appropriate for someone whose decisions potentially guide many young people into harm’s way.

This year’s list features a profession that allows its practitioners to spend a lot of time in a comfortable chair. But, of course, being a psychiatrist requires a lot more than just sitting quietly and listening. Getting accredited means earning a bachelor’s degree, finishing medical school, completing a residency and becoming board certified. This is a big commitment that can reap sizable rewards. According to CareerCast’s report, psychiatrists earn a median annual income of $207,153. The profession is also expected to see 14% growth between now and 2024.

The top job on CareerCast’s list of highest paying professions is that of surgeon. To get to such a job requires years of committed study and practice. That includes a bachelor’s degree, a medical degree, a residency at a medical facility and a navigating a slim margin of error as far as mistakes are concerned.

The result of all of that toil is a median annual income of $357,192 and a boatload of stress derived from holding the well-being of others in yours hands. The high salary invariably comes in handy, CareerCast notes, as medical students, on average, walk away from their education with about $170,000 in loan debt.