Miami Dolphins QB Ryan Tannehill injures left knee against Arizona Cardinals
Dolphins fear left ACL injury for QB Tannehill
Dolphins fear left ACL injury for QB Tannehill What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 14: Giants surging, Broncos in trouble Jerry on QB switch: 'Know it when you see it' Ravens, Browns, Cards to make London debuts NFL teams can choose own cancer cause in '17 Rams COO: Fisher firing 'organizational failure' Police report: Floyd changed story during arrest Ex-Raven Reuland, 29, dies after brain aneurysm Patriots unseat Cowboys for No. 1 in Week 15 Power Rankings 1 Related New York Giants 18th in Vegas NFL power ranks Tom Brady is X factor in flawed AFC playoff field Ravens show resiliency, but Patriots on different level Why more London games? NFL eyeing 400 million worldwide fans Vote: How should Dallas address Dak's struggles? What the TD celebration in 'Jerry Maguire' would look like now Rams had no choice but to fire Jeff Fisher Rex on hot seat: 'Not signing up for a dismissal' A verdict many applaud is still a total loss for New Orleans Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft Matchups that could take down Super Bowl contenders Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? Manziel to Carr: 'Take you up' on friendship offer Ron Rivera: Facing sometimes stubborn Josh Norman will be fun Patriots' push costs bettor $100K, 15-leg parlay Best and worst QBs of Week 14: a low point for QB play For once, Dak Prescott could not find answers Dickerson on Rams' firing Fisher: 'It was time' NFL playoff picture: Giants delay Cowboys' clinching party Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14 Browns' Jackson wants Pryor to stop trash-talking Chargers RB Gordon day-to-day for hip, knee Injured finger won't sideline Stafford vs. Giants The Big Story for every NFL team Ryan Tannehill fell to the ground holding his knee after a low hit by Cardinals DT Calais Campbell in the third quarter, forcing backup Matt Moore to enter the game. (0:30) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment A Temple graduate and Hyattsville, Maryland, native who lives in Miami Joined ESPN in 2008 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. -- The Miami Dolphins are bracing for the worst with starting quarterback Ryan Tannehill , who injured his left knee in Sunday's 26-23 victory over the Arizona Cardinals . Tannehill was hit low late in the third quarter by Cardinals defensive tackle Calais Campbell and was knocked out of the game. Backup quarterback Matt Moore replaced Tannehill and threw for 47 yards and produced the game-winning drive that resulted in the final field goal. Several people in the Dolphins' organization, including Moore and head coach Adam Gase, embraced Tannehill in the locker room after the game. Tannehill did not address the media Sunday and exited Hard Rock Stadium on crutches. Gase confirmed the team is concerned that Tannehill tore his left ACL. "We don't have it officially yet, but it doesn't look good," Gase said. The feeling in the locker room is the offense will be turned over to Moore down the stretch as the Dolphins (8-5) try to complete their push for the playoffs. Moore was one of several players offering Tannehill words of encouragement. "I told him I loved him and, you know, regardless of what his situation is, this team needs you," Moore said of his conversation. "He agreed and said, 'I'm there. Let's go win one game at a time.' I know he was shaken up." Before the injury, Tannehill was one of the NFL's most durable quarterbacks. He hasn't missed a start in five seasons. Tannehill threw for three touchdowns against the Cardinals before getting hurt. Moore helped Miami finish the game and complete the win over the Cardinals to stay in the playoff chase. He's thrown just 16 passes in the past four seasons. The Dolphins will travel to play the New York Jets next week. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Ryan Tannehill fell to the ground holding his knee after a low hit by Cardinals DT Calais Campbell in the third quarter, forcing backup Matt Moore to enter the game. (0:30)

MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. -- The Miami Dolphins are bracing for the worst with starting quarterback Ryan Tannehill, who injured his left knee in Sunday's 26-23 victory over the Arizona Cardinals.

Tannehill was hit low late in the third quarter by Cardinals defensive tackle Calais Campbell and was knocked out of the game.

Backup quarterback Matt Moore replaced Tannehill and threw for 47 yards and produced the game-winning drive that resulted in the final field goal.

Editor's Picks Ryan Tannehill'€™s injury looms large over Dolphins'€™ playoff hopes The Dolphins celebrated a win over the Cardinals on Sunday, but those good vibes may not last because of a knee injury suffered by QB Ryan Tannehill.

Several people in the Dolphins' organization, including Moore and head coach Adam Gase, embraced Tannehill in the locker room after the game. Tannehill did not address the media Sunday and exited Hard Rock Stadium on crutches.

Gase confirmed the team is concerned that Tannehill tore his left ACL.

"We don't have it officially yet, but it doesn't look good," Gase said.

The feeling in the locker room is the offense will be turned over to Moore down the stretch as the Dolphins (8-5) try to complete their push for the playoffs. Moore was one of several players offering Tannehill words of encouragement.

"I told him I loved him and, you know, regardless of what his situation is, this team needs you," Moore said of his conversation. "He agreed and said, 'I'm there. Let's go win one game at a time.' I know he was shaken up."

Before the injury, Tannehill was one of the NFL's most durable quarterbacks. He hasn't missed a start in five seasons. Tannehill threw for three touchdowns against the Cardinals before getting hurt.

Moore helped Miami finish the game and complete the win over the Cardinals to stay in the playoff chase. He's thrown just 16 passes in the past four seasons.

The Dolphins will travel to play the New York Jets next week.