About Those Trump Conflict-of-Interest Worries...
About Those Trump Conflict-of-Interest Worries...
Trump Vows ‘Total Exit’ From Business to Avoid Conflicts A U.S. president-elect saying that he liquidated his multimillion dollar stock portfolio would normally put a swift end to talk about conflicts of interest . Donald Trump, of course, is no typical president-elect. The Trump Organization’s global business interests raise almost limitless possibilities for conflicts, or at least the appearance thereof. Trump promised a plan to “take me completely out" of operations of his businesses, then postponed spelling out the details, then tweeted that he will put his sons in charge and that "no new deals will be done" while he’s president. Nothing short of complete divestiture will satisfy critics. 1. What are Trump’s conflicts? He’ll be a leader with commercial projects and partnerships across the globe . He listed more than 500 businesses in a personal disclosure form filed during the campaign, suggesting at least some stake in licensing, hotel, golf and other businesses in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China, Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Israel, the Philippines and Turkey. As Bloomberg View’s Timothy L. O’Brien wrote in June, “it would be hard to conceive of any major global trade deal that wouldn’t raise a red flag given Trump’s international presence.” 2. What’s the danger? In Trump’s case, conflicts could arise if, say, an interest group or foreign government steered business to a Trump property. Or if he favored a country where he has a commercial interest, or the American television network that airs his show . Or if the Trump Organization, as a landlord or lease-holder, must negotiate with the federal government. The list goes on: The Trump Organization’s largest lender, Deutsche Bank, is working to settle a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit. The lease on the new Trump-branded hotel in Washington, blocks from the White House, appears to bar participation by any elected official, which Trump undeniably is. 3. What does Trump say? That selling his stock portfolio and stepping away from business operations takes care of the conflict issue. Also that by definition , "the president can’t have a conflict of interest." 4. Is that true? Strictly speaking, yes. Congress specifically exempted the president and vice president from the federal law banning members of the executive branch from taking "acts affecting a personal financial interest." Still, most recent presidents have placed their assets in a blind trust , to avoid even the appearance of conflicts. 5. Did Obama use a blind trust? No. His investments are mostly in Treasury notes and index funds, and he doesn’t control their allocation, so the potential for conflict was seen as minimal. Instead, he discloses his investments every year. 6. Will Trump use a blind trust? He’s uttered those words without seeming to fully grasp the implications. To use a blind trust, a public official must turn his or her holdings over to an independent trustee, who becomes the exclusive decision-maker on keeping, selling or reinvesting them. The trustee has no contact with the official. Trump, by contrast, talked about establishing a blind trust run by his own children . Plus, his assets are hard to miss: There’s little question that he derives income from the Trump Towers Istanbul . To create a truly blind trust, Trump would probably have to liquidate his holdings. 7. Do any other conflict-of-interest rules apply to a president? Laws against accepting bribes apply to all Americans. Then there’s the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits a “person holding any office of profit or trust” from accepting a “present, emolument, office or title” from a foreign state without Congress’s permission. The rule is why, for instance, President Barack Obama didn’t keep an $18,000 watch given to him by a former Saudi king. Trump’s interests create more opportunities for emolument -- "returns arising from office or employment usually in the form of compensation or perquisites," per Merriam-Webster -- than for a typical president. Whether the Republican-led Congress would press him on it is another question. 8. What do Trump’s critics want? The most sweeping recommendation is that Trump sell his business in full. This is what the normally tight-lipped U.S. Office of Governmental Ethics seemed to believe Trump declared Nov. 30 when he said he would leave his business “in total.” The office, which is charged with preventing conflicts of interest in the executive branch, lauded Trump that day with a torrent of tweets, one of which said, "Bravo! Only way to resolve these conflicts of interest is to divest. Good call!" One problem: Trump didn’t say he’d divest . 9. What are Trump’s critics doing about it? Political operative David Brock said his super-PAC will mine Trump’s statements and business interests for dirt, using the Freedom of Information Act, among other tools. Former advisers to Obama and George W. Bush who have warned of Trump’s potential conflicts have joined an accountability watchdog, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. 10. What do Trump defenders say?  David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey, who served in the Justice Department under Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, wrote in the Washington Post that it’s unfair to expect Trump "to sell off business holdings that he has built and managed most of his life, and with which he is personally identified in a way that few other business magnates are." Their recommendation: Trump should "establish a firewall between himself and his adult children with respect to family business affairs," with his children promising to ask for a legal review of "any potential transactions involving foreign corporations." 11. What does the public say about this? In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted in December, two-thirds surveyed said Trump should choose between being businessman or president, though 69 percent said selling all his businesses "goes too far." The Reference Shelf A chart of Trump’s global web of conflicts. Bloomberg Law on the tax implications of Trump’s business decisions. Trump’s business isn’t too big to sell , writes Bloomberg View Executive Editor Timothy L. O’Brien. Professionals tell Trump how he could leave the family business. A Congressional Research Service review of conflict laws that might apply to the president. More on the Bloomberg poll .

A U.S. president-elect saying that he liquidated his multimillion dollar stock portfolio would normally put a swift end to talk about conflicts of interest. Donald Trump, of course, is no typical president-elect. The Trump Organization’s global business interests raise almost limitless possibilities for conflicts, or at least the appearance thereof. Trump promised a plan to “take me completely out" of operations of his businesses, then postponed spelling out the details, then tweeted that he will put his sons in charge and that "no new deals will be done" while he’s president. Nothing short of complete divestiture will satisfy critics.

1. What are Trump’s conflicts?

He’ll be a leader with commercial projects and partnerships across the globe. He listed more than 500 businesses in a personal disclosure form filed during the campaign, suggesting at least some stake in licensing, hotel, golf and other businesses in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China, Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Israel, the Philippines and Turkey. As Bloomberg View’s Timothy L. O’Brien wrote in June, “it would be hard to conceive of any major global trade deal that wouldn’t raise a red flag given Trump’s international presence.”

2. What’s the danger?

In Trump’s case, conflicts could arise if, say, an interest group or foreign government steered business to a Trump property. Or if he favored a country where he has a commercial interest, or the American television network that airs his show. Or if the Trump Organization, as a landlord or lease-holder, must negotiate with the federal government. The list goes on: The Trump Organization’s largest lender, Deutsche Bank, is working to settle a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit. The lease on the new Trump-branded hotel in Washington, blocks from the White House, appears to bar participation by any elected official, which Trump undeniably is.

3. What does Trump say?

That selling his stock portfolio and stepping away from business operations takes care of the conflict issue. Also that by definition, "the president can’t have a conflict of interest."

4. Is that true?

Strictly speaking, yes. Congress specifically exempted the president and vice president from the federal law banning members of the executive branch from taking "acts affecting a personal financial interest." Still, most recent presidents have placed their assets in a blind trust, to avoid even the appearance of conflicts.

5. Did Obama use a blind trust?

No. His investments are mostly in Treasury notes and index funds, and he doesn’t control their allocation, so the potential for conflict was seen as minimal. Instead, he discloses his investments every year.

6. Will Trump use a blind trust?

He’s uttered those words without seeming to fully grasp the implications. To use a blind trust, a public official must turn his or her holdings over to an independent trustee, who becomes the exclusive decision-maker on keeping, selling or reinvesting them. The trustee has no contact with the official. Trump, by contrast, talked about establishing a blind trust run by his own children. Plus, his assets are hard to miss: There’s little question that he derives income from the Trump Towers Istanbul. To create a truly blind trust, Trump would probably have to liquidate his holdings.

7. Do any other conflict-of-interest rules apply to a president?

Laws against accepting bribes apply to all Americans. Then there’s the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits a “person holding any office of profit or trust” from accepting a “present, emolument, office or title” from a foreign state without Congress’s permission. The rule is why, for instance, President Barack Obama didn’t keep an $18,000 watch given to him by a former Saudi king. Trump’s interests create more opportunities for emolument -- "returns arising from office or employment usually in the form of compensation or perquisites," per Merriam-Webster -- than for a typical president. Whether the Republican-led Congress would press him on it is another question.

8. What do Trump’s critics want?

The most sweeping recommendation is that Trump sell his business in full. This is what the normally tight-lipped U.S. Office of Governmental Ethics seemed to believe Trump declared Nov. 30 when he said he would leave his business “in total.” The office, which is charged with preventing conflicts of interest in the executive branch, lauded Trump that day with a torrent of tweets, one of which said, "Bravo! Only way to resolve these conflicts of interest is to divest. Good call!" One problem: Trump didn’t say he’d divest.

9. What are Trump’s critics doing about it?



Political operative David Brock said his super-PAC will mine Trump’s statements and business interests for dirt, using the Freedom of Information Act, among other tools. Former advisers to Obama and George W. Bush who have warned of Trump’s potential conflicts have joined an accountability watchdog, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.

10. What do Trump defenders say?

Keep up with the best of Bloomberg Politics. Get our newsletter daily. Business Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day. You will now receive the Business newsletter Markets The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes. You will now receive the Markets newsletter Technology Insights into what you'll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now. You will now receive the Technology newsletter Pursuits What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams. You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter Game Plan The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead. You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey, who served in the Justice Department under Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, wrote in the Washington Post that it’s unfair to expect Trump "to sell off business holdings that he has built and managed most of his life, and with which he is personally identified in a way that few other business magnates are." Their recommendation: Trump should "establish a firewall between himself and his adult children with respect to family business affairs," with his children promising to ask for a legal review of "any potential transactions involving foreign corporations."

11. What does the public say about this?

In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted in December, two-thirds surveyed said Trump should choose between being businessman or president, though 69 percent said selling all his businesses "goes too far."

The Reference Shelf