NFL Week 14 inactive players
Week 14 fantasy football inactives watch
Week 14 fantasy football inactives watch Free-agent finds for Week 15 2 Related Rodgers re-established as fantasy's top quarterback Week 14 fantasy football winners and losers Week 14 fantasy football winners and losers The Big Story for every NFL team NFL playoff picture: Giants delay Cowboys' clinching party Dez Bryant endures frustrating night in Cowboys' loss Titans show Marcus Mariota doesn't have to be great for them to win Jameis Winston'€™s leadership extends far beyond Bucs' offense Injured Melvin Gordon shows value to Chargers in his absence The AFC South is a roller coaster Clay: Top-200 dynasty rankings 2016 consistency ratings through Week 13 Running back depth chart Three-year consistency ratings through Week 13 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment To help you set your lineups and avoid starting a player who won't take the field, we will post fantasy-relevant updates and analysis here as NFL teams release their Sunday inactive lists before kickoff. Any rankings cited in this column come from our ESPN Fantasy staff ranks . Refresh often for the latest information. Ruled out before Sunday LB Luke Kuechly (concussion), DE Charles Johnson (hamstring), WR A.J. Green (hamstring), S Clayton Geathers (neck), S Harrison Smith (ankle), WR Allen Hurns (hamstring), TE Julius Thomas (back), S Tyrann Mathieu (shoulder), S Chris Conte (chest), LB Brandon Marshall (hamstring), WR Mohamed Sanu (groin), DE Jason Pierre-Paul (core muscle) K Chris Boswell (abdomen, questionable) -- DT Kyle Williams (back, questionable) -- TE Charles Clay (knee, questionable) -- WR Sammy Watkins (foot, questionable) -- WR Robert Woods (knee, questionable) -- S Kurt Coleman (concussion, questionable) -- CB Daryl Worley (concussion, questionable) -- WR Marquess Wilson (groin, questionable) -- TE Eric Ebron (knee, questionable) -- WR Marvin Jones (quadriceps, questionable) -- RB Theo Riddick (ankle, questionable) -- DE Jadeveon Clowney (elbow, questionable) -- LB Brian Cushing (back, questionable) -- RB Chris Ivory (hamstring, questionable) -- LB Kiko Alonso (hand, doubtful) -- WR DeVante Parker (back, questionable) -- S Isa Abdul-Quddus (neck, questionable) -- TE Jordan Reed (shoulder, questionable) -- WR Dorial Green-Beckham (abdomen, questionable) -- WR Jordan Matthews (ankle, questionable) -- RB Ryan Mathews (knee, questionable) -- QB Trevor Siemian (foot, questionable) -- LB Craig Robertson (shoulder, questionable) -- RB Mark Ingram (toe, questionable) -- WR Michael Thomas (foot, questionable) -- DE Muhammad Wilkerson (ankle, questionable) -- WR Julio Jones (toe, questionable) -- DE Robert Quinn (concussion, questionable) -- S Barry Church (forearm, questionable) -- T.J. Lang (2:40 p.m.): The Packers guard, who broke his foot on Nov. 13, is back on the active roster for the first time since that injury. However, it's unclear how much game action he'll get. Joe Staley (2:40 p.m.): San Francisco's left tackle will miss Sunday's game with a hamstring injury, ending a streak of 92 consecutive starts. Expect the Jets' pass rush to have a little extra spring in its step against the 49ers as a result. Julio Jones (2:15 p.m.): Apparently, the pregame workout did not go well enough for the wide receiver for the Falcons to be willing to let him play. Taylor Gabriel and Aldrick Robinson get fantasy boosts as a result. Trevor Siemian (11:59 a.m.): The Broncos quarterback will indeed be active , but his left foot will be heavily taped and braced. That could cut into his already limited mobility and could elevate the fantasy value of the Titans' D/ST. Philadelphia Eagles (11:53 a.m.): Expect offensive line troubles for the Eagles, as RG Brandon Brooks  will miss his second game in three weeks because of illness. Isaac Seumalo is expected to start for only the second time in his career. Pittsburgh Steelers (11:50 a.m.): Both Chris Boswell (abdominal injury) and Randy Bullock are active for this week's game. With two kickers to turn to and a head coach who has no problem going for two on each and every conversion attempt, fantasy owners should go nowhere near either player today. DeAndre Levy (11:45 a.m.): The Lions will have their linebacker back in action for the first time since Week 1, when multiple injuries forced Levy to the sideline. Levy has played only twice the past two seasons. Chris Ivory (7:50 a.m.): According to NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, Ivory will not play today for the Jaguars because of his lingering hamstring injury. Jacksonville's promotion of RB Bronson Hill to the 53-man roster was also a good indicator of Ivory's status. T.J. Yeldon might see a boost in fantasy value as a result. Detroit Lions (7:45 a.m.): Although it's still possible that both players will suffer some sort of setback in warm-ups, ESPN's Adam Schefter reports that the duo of TE Eric Ebron ( knee ) and WR Marvin Jones ( thigh ) will be able to play for the Lions. Julio Jones (7:40 a.m.): It will be a game-time call for the elite Falcons wideout, and with the late start, Jones might not be worth the risk. Although coach Dan Quinn intimated that he expected Jones to play after the receiver participated in Friday's walk-through, a final call won't come until the team sees Jones test his injured toe on the field. Philadelphia Eagles (7:35 a.m.): Seen limping during the week and dealing with an abdominal injury, Dorial Green-Beckham is looking like he might sit out Sunday's game for the Eagles. However, ESPN's Adam Schefter notes that WR Jordan Matthews (ankle) will be able to play. Mark Ingram (7:30 a.m.): After missing practice Thursday, Ingram participated in New Orleans' Friday session -- a good sign that his injuries are moving in the right direction. Tim Hightower should still get enough touches to be fantasy-relevant on Sunday, but it is looking like Ingram will suit up as well. Jordan Reed (7:25 a.m.): The Washington tight end, who appeared to still be dealing with some discomfort from his separated left shoulder during practice this week, is nonetheless expected to play against the Eagles today. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

To help you set your lineups and avoid starting a player who won't take the field, we will post fantasy-relevant updates and analysis here as NFL teams release their Sunday inactive lists before kickoff. Any rankings cited in this column come from our ESPN Fantasy staff ranks.

Refresh often for the latest information.

Editor's Picks Fantasy fallout: Is Ladarius Green a go-to option at tight end? Fantasy crunch time is here, so every lineup decision is critical. Should you use Ladarius Green, Malcolm Mitchell, Jason Witten? We let you know.

Ruled out before Sunday

LB Luke Kuechly (concussion), DE Charles Johnson (hamstring), WR A.J. Green (hamstring), S Clayton Geathers (neck), S Harrison Smith (ankle), WR Allen Hurns (hamstring), TE Julius Thomas (back), S Tyrann Mathieu (shoulder), S Chris Conte (chest), LB Brandon Marshall (hamstring), WR Mohamed Sanu (groin), DE Jason Pierre-Paul (core muscle)

Early games, 1 p.m. ET (nine scheduled)

K Chris Boswell (abdomen, questionable) -- active

DT Kyle Williams (back, questionable) -- inactive

TE Charles Clay (knee, questionable) -- active

WR Sammy Watkins (foot, questionable) -- active

WR Robert Woods (knee, questionable) -- active

S Kurt Coleman (concussion, questionable) -- active

CB Daryl Worley (concussion, questionable) -- active

WR Marquess Wilson (groin, questionable) -- inactive

TE Eric Ebron (knee, questionable) -- active

WR Marvin Jones (quadriceps, questionable) -- active

RB Theo Riddick (ankle, questionable) -- inactive

DE Jadeveon Clowney (elbow, questionable) -- active

LB Brian Cushing (back, questionable) -- active

RB Chris Ivory (hamstring, questionable) -- inactive

LB Kiko Alonso (hand, doubtful) -- inactive

WR DeVante Parker (back, questionable) -- active

S Isa Abdul-Quddus (neck, questionable) -- active

TE Jordan Reed (shoulder, questionable) -- active

WR Dorial Green-Beckham (abdomen, questionable) -- inactive

WR Jordan Matthews (ankle, questionable) -- active

RB Ryan Mathews (knee, questionable) -- active

QB Trevor Siemian (foot, questionable) -- active

Late games, 4:05 and 4:25 p.m. ET (four scheduled)

LB Craig Robertson (shoulder, questionable) -- inactive

RB Mark Ingram (toe, questionable) -- active

WR Michael Thomas (foot, questionable) -- inactive

DE Muhammad Wilkerson (ankle, questionable) -- active

WR Julio Jones (toe, questionable) -- inactive

DE Robert Quinn (concussion, questionable) -- inactive

Sunday night game, 8:30 ET

S Barry Church (forearm, questionable) -- active

Updates/analysis (most recent first)

T.J. Lang (2:40 p.m.): The Packers guard, who broke his foot on Nov. 13, is back on the active roster for the first time since that injury. However, it's unclear how much game action he'll get.

Joe Staley (2:40 p.m.): San Francisco's left tackle will miss Sunday's game with a hamstring injury, ending a streak of 92 consecutive starts. Expect the Jets' pass rush to have a little extra spring in its step against the 49ers as a result.

Julio Jones (2:15 p.m.): Apparently, the pregame workout did not go well enough for the wide receiver for the Falcons to be willing to let him play. Taylor Gabriel and Aldrick Robinson get fantasy boosts as a result.

Trevor Siemian (11:59 a.m.): The Broncos quarterback will indeed be active, but his left foot will be heavily taped and braced. That could cut into his already limited mobility and could elevate the fantasy value of the Titans' D/ST.

Philadelphia Eagles (11:53 a.m.): Expect offensive line troubles for the Eagles, as RG Brandon Brooks will miss his second game in three weeks because of illness. Isaac Seumalo is expected to start for only the second time in his career.

Pittsburgh Steelers (11:50 a.m.): Both Chris Boswell (abdominal injury) and Randy Bullock are active for this week's game. With two kickers to turn to and a head coach who has no problem going for two on each and every conversion attempt, fantasy owners should go nowhere near either player today.

DeAndre Levy (11:45 a.m.): The Lions will have their linebacker back in action for the first time since Week 1, when multiple injuries forced Levy to the sideline. Levy has played only twice the past two seasons.

Chris Ivory (7:50 a.m.): According to NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, Ivory will not play today for the Jaguars because of his lingering hamstring injury. Jacksonville's promotion of RB Bronson Hill to the 53-man roster was also a good indicator of Ivory's status. T.J. Yeldon might see a boost in fantasy value as a result.

Detroit Lions (7:45 a.m.): Although it's still possible that both players will suffer some sort of setback in warm-ups, ESPN's Adam Schefter reports that the duo of TE Eric Ebron (knee) and WR Marvin Jones (thigh) will be able to play for the Lions.

Julio Jones (7:40 a.m.): It will be a game-time call for the elite Falcons wideout, and with the late start, Jones might not be worth the risk. Although coach Dan Quinn intimated that he expected Jones to play after the receiver participated in Friday's walk-through, a final call won't come until the team sees Jones test his injured toe on the field.

Philadelphia Eagles (7:35 a.m.): Seen limping during the week and dealing with an abdominal injury, Dorial Green-Beckham is looking like he might sit out Sunday's game for the Eagles. However, ESPN's Adam Schefter notes that WR Jordan Matthews (ankle) will be able to play.

Mark Ingram (7:30 a.m.): After missing practice Thursday, Ingram participated in New Orleans' Friday session -- a good sign that his injuries are moving in the right direction. Tim Hightower should still get enough touches to be fantasy-relevant on Sunday, but it is looking like Ingram will suit up as well.

Jordan Reed (7:25 a.m.): The Washington tight end, who appeared to still be dealing with some discomfort from his separated left shoulder during practice this week, is nonetheless expected to play against the Eagles today.

Official Sunday inactives should begin coming in at approximately 11:30 a.m. ET for the early games, 2:30 p.m. ET for the late games and 7 p.m. ET for the Sunday night game.