Ryan Tannehill Injury: Updates on Dolphins Star's Knee and Return
Ryan Tannehill Injury: Updates on Dolphins Star's Knee and Return
Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan injured his knee in Week 14 against the Arizona Cardinals when Cardinals defensive end Calais Campbell hit him in the leg. The Dolphins feared he had torn his and would miss the remainder of the season, but he was diagnosed with a sprain. His official playing status for Week 15 against the New York Jets has yet to be announced. Continue for updates. Latest on 's for Return Monday, Dec. 12 told reporters  Latest on 's Diagnosis Monday, Dec. 12  told reporters that surgery is not an option for , who sprained his and .  said he doesn't think Campbell is a dirty player and doesn't believe the hit on was on purpose. On Sunday, Andy Slater of 940 in Miami reported that injured his and would be out for the rest of the season. After the game,  told reporters the fear was that tore his . Chris Perkins of the reported that returned to the sideline in street clothes with a "noticeable limp."  Has Had Up-and-Down Career with Dolphins In his fifth season as the Dolphins' starting signal-caller, the 28-year-old Texas A&M product entered Week 14 with 2,800 passing yards and 16 touchdowns against 11 interceptions. showed flashes of brilliance in each of his first two NFL seasons, and he came into his own in 2014. He set career highs across the board with 4,045 passing yards, 27 touchdowns, a 66.4 completion percentage and 311 rushing yards. His 12 interceptions were also the fewest he had thrown in a single campaign. Even greater improvements were expected in 2015, but his completion percentage fell to 61.9 percent, he threw just 24 touchdown passes and Miami disappointed with a 6-10 record. While and the Dolphins regressed, he still represented Miami's best chance of making strides and becoming a contender in the AFC East, which is precisely what the team has done in 2016. The Dolphins have a veteran backup in Matt Moore, but he hasn't started a game since 2011 because has never missed a regular-season contest. Stability at the quarterback position has been a major strength for Miami of late, but now that it is in question, there will be added pressure on running back Jay and to lead the way.

Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill injured his knee in Week 14 against the Arizona Cardinals when Cardinals defensive end Calais Campbell hit him in the leg. The Dolphins feared he had torn his ACL and would miss the remainder of the season, but he was diagnosed with a sprain.

His official playing status for Week 15 against the New York Jets has yet to be announced.

Continue for updates.

Latest on Tannehill 's Timeline for Return

Monday, Dec. 12

Dolphins head coach Adam Gase told reporters he doesn't know if Tannehill will play again this season.

Jeff Darlington of ESPN later reported there's "a cautious sense of internal optimism" that Tannehill could play in a potential playoff game. However, Darlington added the "Dolphins are especially thrilled for Tannehill's 2017 prospects" and won't jeopardize them by rushing him back into the lineup.

Latest on Tannehill 's Diagnosis

Monday, Dec. 12

Gase told reporters that surgery is not an option for Tannehill, who sprained his ACL and MCL.

Gase said he doesn't think Campbell is a dirty player and doesn't believe the hit on Tannehill was on purpose.

On Sunday, Andy Slater of 940 WINZ in Miami reported that Tannehill injured his ACL and would be out for the rest of the season. After the game, Gase told reporters the fear was that Tannehill tore his ACL.

Chris Perkins of the Sun Sentinel reported that Tannehill returned to the sideline in street clothes with a "noticeable limp."

Tannehill Has Had Up-and-Down Career with Dolphins

In his fifth season as the Dolphins' starting signal-caller, the 28-year-old Texas A&M product entered Week 14 with 2,800 passing yards and 16 touchdowns against 11 interceptions.

Tannehill showed flashes of brilliance in each of his first two NFL seasons, and he came into his own in 2014. He set career highs across the board with 4,045 passing yards, 27 touchdowns, a 66.4 completion percentage and 311 rushing yards. His 12 interceptions were also the fewest he had thrown in a single campaign.

Even greater improvements were expected in 2015, but his completion percentage fell to 61.9 percent, he threw just 24 touchdown passes and Miami disappointed with a 6-10 record.

While Tannehill and the Dolphins regressed, he still represented Miami's best chance of making strides and becoming a contender in the AFC East, which is precisely what the team has done in 2016.

The Dolphins have a veteran backup in Matt Moore, but he hasn't started a game since 2011 because Tannehill has never missed a regular-season contest.

Stability at the quarterback position has been a major strength for Miami of late, but now that it is in question, there will be added pressure on running back Jay Ajayi and the Dolphins' talented defense to lead the way.

Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.