Kim Jong Un oversees mock military attack on building resembling home of South's president
Cackling Kim has the South in his sights


North Korean tyrant Kim Jong Un cackles as he guides a military drill practising an attack on the South.

Kim watched with binoculars as North Korea's special operation forces conducted an exercise aimed at 'destroying specified targets of the enemy', including the Blue House, the North's KCNA news agency said.

The ruling Workers' Party newspaper Rodong Sinmun also carried a two-page report on the drill, showing pictures of a building resembling the Blue House being overrun by North Korean troops and set ablaze.

What a laugh: Kim Jong-Un holds binoculars as he watches the military exercise with his smirking generals behind him

One photo showed Kim roaring with laughter as he watched the simulated attack.

'Well done, the enemy troops will have no space to hide themselves, far from taking any counteraction,' state-run KCNA quoted Kim as saying.

No date was given for the military exercise in Sunday's report.

The South Korean military 'strongly condemned' the drill, warning there would be fatal consequences if confronted by the North.

'If the enemy conducts a provocation based on its rash judgement, we will strongly and firmly retaliate with a fatal blow against the North Korean leadership,' the defence ministry's joint chiefs of staff said in a statement.

The North's KCNA state news agency report did not mention the South Korean parliament's vote on Friday to impeach its president, Park Geun-hye.

Park will remain in the Blue House, though her powers have been suspended and assumed by the South's prime minister while the Constitutional Court weighs parliament's impeachment vote.

Firepower: Missiles are launched from a hilltop during the drill by special operation forces

In flames: The building resembles South Korea’s presidential palace

Tension on the divided Korean peninsula has been high this year after two North Korean nuclear tests and an unprecedented flurry of ballistic missile tests.

The North's tests have brought tighter U.N. Security Council sanctions but no indication North Korea and its young leader Kim are willing to compromise on its nuclear and missile programmes.

The Rodong Sinmun pictures included one of Kim observing the exercise through binoculars.