Here's What Happened During Donald Trump's First Interview Since Election Day
Here's What Happened During Donald Trump's First Interview Since Election Day
Donald Trump sat down with Fox News' Chris Wallace for an exclusive interview (dubbed ) since on Sunday to discuss his recent his Cabinet picks as well as his policies he wishes to enact after he is sworn into office on Jan. 20. The first portion of the interview initially took place at the Trump Tower in New York City, where Wallace talked business with the president-elect about his various policy ideas and more. One of the biggest revelations from that sit down was Trump's comments on the U.S. intelligence. After a few other remarks, Trump stated that he would not be scheduling frequent intelligence meetings because he was "smart" and didn't need to hear the same thing over and over again. For the second part of the interview, Trump invited Fox to join him in Baltimore for the 117th annual Army-Navy game. According to reports, this was the first time a president-elect ever attended the game. Although he previously shaded the game , suggesting it wasn't the best football, he had a lot of pleasant things to say upon meeting the men and women who serves in the nation's armed forces. "It's just something that I wanted to see," he tells Wallace while on Trump Force One heading to the game. "And I love and respect the armed forces." Additionally, Trump made some pretty outlandish comments about global climate change, saying that "nobody really knows" if the environmental issue is really a thing. Since being elected earlier in November, Trump has been hard at working getting his Cabinet in order. After a series of up and downs, as well as many withdraws, Trump is well on his way to completing his list of people to serve on his administration. The new interview follows the announcement that James Mattis has earned Trump's nomination for secretary of defense as well as John Kelly for secretary of homeland security . It was also confirmed earlier in the week, that former mayor Rudy Giuliani had removed himself out of the running for any position on Trump's administration.  There have been reports from multiple sources that ExxonMobil Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson is the leading candidate for Secretary of State. During the interview, Wallace asked if Trump selected a candidate yet, in which he replied: "I’m getting very, very close. I have someone in mind that will be very fabulous." Tillerson is not his final decision for Secretary of State, but he did call him a "world class player." Other topics of interest include Trump answering a phone call from Taiwan's president and questioning why the U.S. has to be bounded by a 'One-China policy.' He also spoke about whether his whole family will be living with him in the White House. It was reported that Melania and Barron Trump would not be moving to Washington D.C. , though Trump now says Melania and Barron will be "back and forth" from D.C. to New York until they figure out how to transfer Barron from his prep school. As for Ivanka Trump and her husband Jared Kushner, Trump expressed again how much he would love to get them involved in Washington. He confirmed he'll still keep his stakes in and The Trump Organization, but he won't be involved in any management level decisions. In the final segment, Wallace asks Trump who were the first people to call him "Mr. President" and what were his emotions after learning he won the election, among other things. Check back here for when the full interview releases. one-hour special will air again at 2 a.m. ET on Fox News Sunday. Watch Chris Wallace's exclusive interview with President-elect tonight at ET & ET on @FoxNews  pic.twitter.com/

Donald Trump sat down with Fox News' Chris Wallace for an exclusive interview (dubbed The Trump Way) since on Sunday to discuss his recent his Cabinet picks as well as his policies he wishes to enact after he is sworn into office on Jan. 20.

The first portion of the interview initially took place at the Trump Tower in New York City, where Wallace talked business with the president-elect about his various policy ideas and more. One of the biggest revelations from that sit down was Trump's comments on the U.S. intelligence. After a few other remarks, Trump stated that he would not be scheduling frequent intelligence meetings because he was "smart" and didn't need to hear the same thing over and over again.

For the second part of the interview, Trump invited Fox to join him in Baltimore for the 117th annual Army-Navy game. According to reports, this was the first time a president-elect ever attended the game. Although he previously shaded the game, suggesting it wasn't the best football, he had a lot of pleasant things to say upon meeting the men and women who serves in the nation's armed forces. "It's just something that I wanted to see," he tells Wallace while on Trump Force One heading to the game. "And I love and respect the armed forces."

Additionally, Trump made some pretty outlandish comments about global climate change, saying that "nobody really knows" if the environmental issue is really a thing. "I'm still open-minded. Nobody really knows. Look, I'm somebody that gets it, and nobody really knows. It's not something that's so hard and fast." His latest claims back up previous statements he made during his campaign trail, in which he claimed climate change was a "hoax" that is being pushed by China. There's probably a dozen of scientists and leaders in that field that would prove the president otherwise, but the good news is that Trump says that he interested in looking more into the issue.

Since being elected earlier in November, Trump has been hard at working getting his Cabinet in order. After a series of up and downs, as well as many withdraws, Trump is well on his way to completing his list of people to serve on his administration. The new interview follows the announcement that James Mattis has earned Trump's nomination for secretary of defense as well as John Kelly for secretary of homeland security. It was also confirmed earlier in the week, that former mayor Rudy Giuliani had removed himself out of the running for any position on Trump's administration.



There have been reports from multiple sources that ExxonMobil Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson is the leading candidate for Secretary of State. During the interview, Wallace asked if Trump selected a candidate yet, in which he replied: "I’m getting very, very close. I have someone in mind that will be very fabulous." Tillerson is not his final decision for Secretary of State, but he did call him a "world class player."

Other topics of interest include Trump answering a phone call from Taiwan's president and questioning why the U.S. has to be bounded by a 'One-China policy.' He also spoke about whether his whole family will be living with him in the White House. It was reported that Melania and Barron Trump would not be moving to Washington D.C., though Trump now says Melania and Barron will be "back and forth" from D.C. to New York until they figure out how to transfer Barron from his prep school. As for Ivanka Trump and her husband Jared Kushner, Trump expressed again how much he would love to get them involved in Washington. He confirmed he'll still keep his stakes in The Celebrity Apprentice and The Trump Organization, but he won't be involved in any management level decisions.

In the final segment, Wallace asks Trump who were the first people to call him "Mr. President" and what were his emotions after learning he won the election, among other things.

Check back here for when the full interview releases. The Trump Way one-hour special will air again at 2 a.m. ET on Fox News Sunday.