Climate Change Film 'An Inconvenient Truth' Gets a Sequel
Climate Change Film 'An Inconvenient Truth' Gets a Sequel
Shares                Al Gore's climate change documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth," is getting a sequel. Paramount Pictures said Friday the follow-up to the Oscar-winning original will premiere at next January's Sundance Film Festival . In the new documentary, former Vice President Gore examines global warming's escalation and the solutions at hand, Paramount said. In a statement, Gore called for a re-dedication to solving what he called the climate crisis and said there are reasons to be hopeful. He met this week with President-elect Donald Trump to discuss the topic and termed the meeting productive. Several days later, Trump picked Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a climate-change denier, as head of the Environmental Protection Agency. The Sundance festival said it will feature other films and events about environmental change and conservation. Shares                  Climate Change Film 'An Inconvenient Truth' Gets a Sequel   Jonathan Lipnicki and 'Jerry Maguire' 20 Years Later   Mark Wahlberg Is Optimistic About Future Under Trump   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now   Viola Davis Gives Moving Speech at Critics' Choice Awards   Golden Globes 2017: Snubs and Surprises   'The Fate of the Furious' Full-Length Trailer Released   'Moana' Stays Afloat, Leads Box Office for 3rd Straight Week   Golden Globes 2017: Stars React to Nominations   'Walking Dead' Winter Finale Recap   'Collateral Beauty' Helped Will Smith Cope With Father's Illness   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night

Al Gore's climate change documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth," is getting a sequel.

Paramount Pictures said Friday the follow-up to the Oscar-winning original will premiere at next January's Sundance Film Festival.

In the new documentary, former Vice President Gore examines global warming's escalation and the solutions at hand, Paramount said.

In a statement, Gore called for a re-dedication to solving what he called the climate crisis and said there are reasons to be hopeful.

He met this week with President-elect Donald Trump to discuss the topic and termed the meeting productive. Several days later, Trump picked Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a climate-change denier, as head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

The Sundance festival said it will feature other films and events about environmental change and conservation.