Security guards increasingly being treated poorly by employers: union



Security guards increasingly being treated poorly by employers: union

Updated

Looking to make some extra money, Jordan Williams, 20, worked as a security guard during the Canberra Show in February this year.

Key points: Security guards union suing two companies alleging underpayment of guards

Security guards, union allege long shifts without toilet breaks or overtime pay

Industry says there is pressure to lower costs as much as possible

Mostly doing crowd control, it was tiring work and long shifts — one day he worked 18 hours straight.

"I wasn't given any toilet breaks, no lunch breaks, being forced to work in very bad conditions and refused me when I did ask to go to the toilet," he told ABC News.

The show finished, but Jordan and another guard said they were not paid any wages, let alone overtime.

"She said to me the pay should be ready by next fortnight, then a fortnight again, so on and so on, until one point where [they did say] come in, pick up your pay.

"I thought beautiful, great. I woke up to go to the office, by 9 o'clock she said to me sorry mate, I can't pay you this week, it will have to be next week."

Finally Jordan went to his union, United Voice.

United Voice, which represents security guards, said it had seen an increase in its members being treated poorly by employers over the past 18 months, as fierce competition to win contracts puts pressure on wages.

The union is now suing two security companies who have allegedly underpaid guards.

"One worked for 21 hours straight without a break, they weren't paid anything of those wages until the union threatened to sue the employer for a period of about 4 months," said Stefan Russell-Uren, United Voice's in-house solicitor.

Both workers say their employer — Canberra based TTM Security — owes them around $900 each. The company has not turned up to court, and has changed its name to National Corporate Group.

"Another subsidiary is in liquidation, although we expect the subsidiary we're suing will go into liquidation and our assessment is it's highly unlikely the workers will get paid a cent of the wages they're owed," said Mr Russell-Uren.

'You had to work 24 hours at a time'

The union is also suing ECS Risk Management, a national security company which provides services to the Saudi Arabian embassy.

Jason Goodwin, 36, worked there as a personal bodyguard to the Ambassador and his family for a year and a half until June this year.

He claims he was forced to work as an independent contractor, despite wanting to be an employee.

"I was a contractor. If someone didn't turn up for a shift you had to work 24 hours at a time if they couldn't find a replacement," he told ABC News.

Mr Russell-Uren said Mr Goodwin was underpaid.

"He was paid an hourly charge rate but wasn't paid anything for weekend penalties for overtime, despite occasionally working 7 to 14 days straight."



Mr Goodwin said he was fired when he wouldn't sign a deed of release.

"If you sign it they owe you no money at all. That seemed very dodgy, everyone was told if you don't sign that dead of release you were pretty much fired," he said, adding he is now seeking compensation and aggravated damages.

Mr Russell-Uren said poor treatment of employees is widespread across the security industry and has been on the increase for the past 18 months.

But Australian Security Industry Association employee relations advisor Chris Delaney said it runs education campaigns for its members about worker entitlements.

"All industries have problems with underpayment of wages from time to time. Very often clients don't understand the cost implications in the security industry. They're interested in keeping their prices as low as they possibly can, or their expenses as low as they possibly can get them," Mr Delaney said.

"That does often put pressure on the security companies to come up with something lower than what is reasonable."

The ABC contacted ECS Security but they declined to comment. TTM Security and National Corporate Group's webpages have disappeared and its Facebook page has been removed. The ABC was unable to contact the directors.

Both cases will be in court this week.

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, company-news, industrial-relations, regulation, small-business, australia

First posted