Gurugram-Based Brothers Get International Reckoning For Empowering Visually-Impaired People In IT Industry
Gurugram-Based Brothers Get Global Reckoning For Empower Visually-Impaired In IT Industry
Gurugram-Based Brothers Get International Reckoning For Empowering Visually-Impaired People In IT Industry For their work in helping empower the visually-impaired in the IT industry, dedicated brothers Arjun and Abhishek Mishra have been recognised individually — on either side of the Atlantic. Arjun, 27, finished as one of the runners-up in the UK-based Queen's Young Leaders 2017 program, while Abhishek, 31, has been elected South Asia representative of the Global Good Fund, a Washington, DC-based foundation. The Queen's Young Leaders program "discovers, celebrates and supports" extraordinary young talent from across the Commonwealth, in the field of social entrepreneurship. The Global Good Fund, meanwhile, is a leadership development enterprise that is built by and for social entrepreneurs. The brothers established the National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET) out of Manesar IMT back in 2009, to train and employ the visually impaired, and help them find fulfilment in their lives. Both took inspiration from their grandmother, who was visually impaired, and it is to her that their calling is dedicated. "There were many visually-impaired people who wanted to lead a normal life, and not be dependent on government charities or philanthropic contributions for survival. But they were never given the opportunity, so we wanted to create an opportunity for them," Arjun said. The two were determined to prove that once trained, there's nothing to separate the skills set and competence of specially- or differently-abled people from that of normal folks. But training, insists Abhishek, has to be backed by employment initiatives. "If there's no job which can guarantee you financial independence, then the skill training goes to waste," explains Abhishek. So graduates would first be employed by the centre in Manesar before moving on to greener pastures. "We started off with a batch, which we trained for four-five months, and once I was sure of my candidates' quality and profile, I started approaching corporates. "After they finish six or eight months, and have gained seniority, the candidates upgrade themselves by looking for better roles and joining bigger organisations. We provide the launchpad for them."

For their work in helping empower the visually-impaired in the IT industry, dedicated brothers Arjun and Abhishek Mishra have been recognised individually — on either side of the Atlantic.

Arjun, 27, finished as one of the runners-up in the UK-based Queen's Young Leaders 2017 program, while Abhishek, 31, has been elected South Asia representative of the Global Good Fund, a Washington, DC-based foundation.

BCCL/Represenatational image

The Queen's Young Leaders program "discovers, celebrates and supports" extraordinary young talent from across the Commonwealth, in the field of social entrepreneurship. The Global Good Fund, meanwhile, is a leadership development enterprise that is built by and for social entrepreneurs.

The brothers established the National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET) out of Manesar IMT back in 2009, to train and employ the visually impaired, and help them find fulfilment in their lives. Both took inspiration from their grandmother, who was visually impaired, and it is to her that their calling is dedicated.

"There were many visually-impaired people who wanted to lead a normal life, and not be dependent on government charities or philanthropic contributions for survival. But they were never given the opportunity, so we wanted to create an opportunity for them," Arjun said.

reuters/Representational Image

The two were determined to prove that once trained, there's nothing to separate the skills set and competence of specially- or differently-abled people from that of normal folks. But training, insists Abhishek, has to be backed by employment initiatives.

"If there's no job which can guarantee you financial independence, then the skill training goes to waste," explains Abhishek. So graduates would first be employed by the centre in Manesar before moving on to greener pastures. "We started off with a batch, which we trained for four-five months, and once I was sure of my candidates' quality and profile, I started approaching corporates.

Reuters/Representational Image

"After they finish six or eight months, and have gained seniority, the candidates upgrade themselves by looking for better roles and joining bigger organisations. We provide the launchpad for them."

This year, NABET has started a program for people who suffer from disability. "We've been working with top hotel chains, and the response, much like that in the IT industry, has been positive," reveals Arjun.