Detroit Lions QB Matthew Stafford has PIP dislocation, torn ligaments in middle finger
Source: Stafford has torn ligaments in finger
Source: Stafford has torn ligaments in finger What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 14: Giants surging, Broncos in trouble Jerry on QB switch: 'Know it when you see it' Source: Fins' Pouncey to IR; Jordan to get spot? Ravens, Browns, Cards to make London debuts NFL teams can choose own cancer cause in '17 Police report: Floyd changed story during arrest Ex-Raven Reuland, 29, dies after brain aneurysm Patriots unseat Cowboys for No. 1 in Week 15 Power Rankings 1 Related New York Giants 18th in Vegas NFL power ranks Tom Brady is X factor in flawed AFC playoff field Ravens show resiliency, but Patriots on different level Why more London games? NFL eyeing 400 million worldwide fans Vote: How should Dallas address Dak's struggles? What the TD celebration in 'Jerry Maguire' would look like now Rams had no choice but to fire Jeff Fisher Rex on hot seat: 'Not signing up for a dismissal' A verdict many applaud is still a total loss for New Orleans Underclassmen who have declared for 2017 NFL draft Matchups that could take down Super Bowl contenders Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? Manziel to Carr: 'Take you up' on friendship offer Ron Rivera: Facing sometimes stubborn Josh Norman will be fun Patriots' push costs bettor $100K, 15-leg parlay Best and worst QBs of Week 14: a low point for QB play For once, Dak Prescott could not find answers Dickerson on Rams' firing Fisher: 'It was time' NFL playoff picture: Giants delay Cowboys' clinching party Biggest NFL injuries of Week 14 Lions coach Jim Caldwell praises Matt Stafford's toughness, and Stafford talks about playing hurt against the Bears. (0:43) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Previously covered University of Michigan for ESPN.com and AnnArbor.com Also covered Notre Dame for Fort Wayne Journal Gazette Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment DETROIT -- Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford suffered a PIP (proximal interphalangeal) joint dislocation and torn ligaments to the middle finger of his throwing hand Sunday and will be required to play the rest of the season with a glove, a source told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter. The top of Stafford's finger was bent downward at a 90-degree angle and he had no control over the top part of digit, the source said. Stafford had the finger taped up, and while the injury would sideline many, he is determined to bring a division title to Detroit and lead the Lions into the playoffs. But just as Oakland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr has been playing with a glove to protect a dislocated finger, Stafford now will have to do the same. Stafford injured the finger in the first quarter of Sunday's 20-17 win over Chicago when his right hand "clapped hands" with Chicago's Leonard Floyd on a play in which he also was called for intentional grounding. Stafford went to the sideline after the drive, put a glove on his right hand and then started throwing with the glove. He played with it the rest of the game but said it affected his grip and the velocity on his throws. "Was just trying to figure out what was the best way to manage it," Stafford said. "You know, the training room guys, the equipment staff, everybody did a great job. Got me all ready to go, and then I just, I haven't thrown with one in a long time. Trying to get the feel back was a little difficult." Stafford ended up completing 21 of 35 passes for 223 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions and rushed four times for 15 yards, including the winning touchdown. Stafford also had his first red zone interception since Week 16 of the 2014 season and threw his first interception that was returned for a touchdown this year. Four of his interceptions this season have come against the Bears. He has three combined against every other team he's faced. "Just tried to play through it," Stafford said. "Play as good as I could. I let those guys know that it may not be pretty coming in there, but those guys made some great plays for me. Obviously didn't play as well as I can. "You know, those two turnovers hurt us, but our defense played great. Then we were able to put together a drive late to go win it." The Lions also got linebacker DeAndre Levy back for the first time since he injured a knee in Week 1. Levy said he knew going into the game that he would play a limited number of snaps, and Lions coach Jim Caldwell said it would "be insane" to play Levy a full complement of snaps since he hasn't played since Week 1. Levy said his knee felt "all right" Saturday and then "felt better" Sunday morning, so he knew he'd be able to play. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

DETROIT -- Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford suffered a PIP (proximal interphalangeal) joint dislocation and torn ligaments to the middle finger of his throwing hand Sunday and will be required to play the rest of the season with a glove, a source told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter.

The top of Stafford's finger was bent downward at a 90-degree angle and he had no control over the top part of digit, the source said.

Editor's Picks How Matthew Stafford's middle-finger injury will impact the Lions Matthew Stafford may lose a little accuracy while wearing a glove to protect his injured finger, but the Lions and their quarterback will need to gut it out.

Stafford had the finger taped up, and while the injury would sideline many, he is determined to bring a division title to Detroit and lead the Lions into the playoffs.

But just as Oakland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr has been playing with a glove to protect a dislocated finger, Stafford now will have to do the same.

Stafford injured the finger in the first quarter of Sunday's 20-17 win over Chicago when his right hand "clapped hands" with Chicago's Leonard Floyd on a play in which he also was called for intentional grounding.

Stafford went to the sideline after the drive, put a glove on his right hand and then started throwing with the glove. He played with it the rest of the game but said it affected his grip and the velocity on his throws.

Matthew Stafford will be required to wear a glove on his throwing hand for the remainder of the season after he suffered a PIP joint dislocation and torn ligaments to his middle finger. AP Photo/Duane Burleson

"Was just trying to figure out what was the best way to manage it," Stafford said. "You know, the training room guys, the equipment staff, everybody did a great job. Got me all ready to go, and then I just, I haven't thrown with one in a long time. Trying to get the feel back was a little difficult."

Stafford ended up completing 21 of 35 passes for 223 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions and rushed four times for 15 yards, including the winning touchdown.

Stafford also had his first red zone interception since Week 16 of the 2014 season and threw his first interception that was returned for a touchdown this year.

Four of his interceptions this season have come against the Bears. He has three combined against every other team he's faced.

"Just tried to play through it," Stafford said. "Play as good as I could. I let those guys know that it may not be pretty coming in there, but those guys made some great plays for me. Obviously didn't play as well as I can.

"You know, those two turnovers hurt us, but our defense played great. Then we were able to put together a drive late to go win it."

The Lions also got linebacker DeAndre Levy back for the first time since he injured a knee in Week 1. Levy said he knew going into the game that he would play a limited number of snaps, and Lions coach Jim Caldwell said it would "be insane" to play Levy a full complement of snaps since he hasn't played since Week 1.

Levy said his knee felt "all right" Saturday and then "felt better" Sunday morning, so he knew he'd be able to play.

Information from ESPN's Adam Schefter was used in this report.