Jeff Fisher Ties Dan Reeves for Most Losses in NFL History
Jeff Fisher Ties Dan Reeves for Most Losses in NFL History
Los Angeles Rams head coach Jeff Fisher is one defeat away from history after tying Dan Reeves' record for most career losses (165) as an NFL head coach, per NFL on CBS . The Rams fell 42-14 to the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday, which clinched the franchise's 10th straight losing season. " Setting the all-time loss record would be a testament to Fisher's longevity and general mediocrity. Excluding his first year as a head coach—when he was in charge of the Houston Oilers for six games—his teams have finished .500 or worse on 15 of 21 occasions. Reeves, in comparison, had 12 winning seasons in 23 years.                 Alden Gonzalez Tom Pelissero Source: Pro-Football-Reference.com The Rams' remaining schedule offers a faint glimmer of hope for Fisher that he can at least see out 2016 before surpassing Reeves. Los Angeles goes on the road to play the Seattle Seahawks , who will be working on a short week without Earl Thomas. While the Rams will be the underdogs, Seattle looked awful without Thomas in a 38-10 defeat to the Green Bay Packers . The Rams should have a puncher's chance. They then wrap up the regular season against the Arizona Cardinals —losers in three of their last four—and the 1-12 San Francisco 49ers .

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Los Angeles Rams head coach Jeff Fisher is one defeat away from history after tying Dan Reeves' record for most career losses (165) as an NFL head coach, per NFL on CBS.

The Rams fell 42-14 to the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday, which clinched the franchise's 10th straight losing season.

"You can look at as glass half full or empty," Fisher said on Dec. 5 about potentially passing Reeves, per ABC Los Angeles' Ashley Brewer.

Setting the all-time loss record would be a testament to Fisher's longevity and general mediocrity. Excluding his first year as a head coach—when he was in charge of the Houston Oilers for six games—his teams have finished .500 or worse on 15 of 21 occasions.

Reeves, in comparison, had 12 winning seasons in 23 years.

Sunday's heavy defeat comes a week after Fisher confirmed he received a two-year extension from the Rams, according to ESPN.com's Alden Gonzalez. While many were critical of the deal, USA Today's Tom Pelissero speculated that it's unlikely Fisher sees out the next two years with the team.

Jeff Fisher: The Race to 166 Coach Record Years Coached Playoff Appearances Conference Titles Dan Reeves 190-165-2 23 9 4 Jeff Fisher 173-165-1 22 6 1 Source: Pro-Football-Reference.com

The Rams' remaining schedule offers a faint glimmer of hope for Fisher that he can at least see out 2016 before surpassing Reeves.

Los Angeles goes on the road to play the Seattle Seahawks, who will be working on a short week without Earl Thomas. While the Rams will be the underdogs, Seattle looked awful without Thomas in a 38-10 defeat to the Green Bay Packers. The Rams should have a puncher's chance.

They then wrap up the regular season against the Arizona Cardinals—losers in three of their last four—and the 1-12 San Francisco 49ers.