Bird attempts to woo mate with a love heart, gets a nasty surprise
Bird attempts to woo mate with a love heart, gets a nasty surprise
LONDON — If there's one thing this series of has taught us, it's that life is never plain sailing in the animal kingdom. That goes for romance, too. SEE ALSO: Lion instantly regrets attempting to take down giraffe During the final episode of the series on Sunday, Attenborough narrated a Great Bowerbird's attempt to charm a partner on a golf course in Townsville, Australia. Basically, the Bowerbird is a collector: he gathers random objects (the shinier the better) around his nest, spends ages arranging them, and then hopes a visiting female will be suitably impressed by the display. The bird in Sunday's clip was so damn romantic he even stole a red heart to woo any potential visitors. It’s not easy finding sex in the city. #PlanetEarth2  pic.twitter.com/FE04OE7Lbi — BBC One (@BBCOne) December 11, 2016 People were impressed with the bird's efforts. That bird with the red heart has a stronger dating game than 99% of human men. #PlanetEarth  pic.twitter.com/itNETXqJzS — Kirsty S (@KirstyStricklan) December 11, 2016 Sadly, things didn't go according to plan. After showcasing his possessions to a visiting bird and having no luck, our plucky hero finally resorted to his glossiest prize: the red heart. "But he's made a mistake," said Attenborough. "This is not a female, but a young male who hasn't yet developed that head crest — and he's making off with the scarlet heart!" When you give someone your heart and they run away with it. We’ve all been there, little bird. 😘 #PlanetEarth2  pic.twitter.com/o8iinpWvMX — BBC One (@BBCOne) December 11, 2016 Yep: not only did he not find a mate, but he also literally had his heart stolen. "It's not easy, finding sex in the city," concluded Attenborough. David Attenborough's commentary on this treasure collecting bird is hilarious 😂 #PlanetEarth — KC (@Kathryna92) December 11, 2016 Attenborough clearly lives for the weekly 5 minutes of innuendo filled bird on bird action #PlanetEarth — Ollie Shaw-Mellors (@Ollieee392) December 11, 2016 Better luck next time, bird. BONUS: This mesmerizing sculpture moves like a flock of birds

LONDON — If there's one thing this series of Planet Earth II has taught us, it's that life is never plain sailing in the animal kingdom.

That goes for romance, too.

SEE ALSO: Lion instantly regrets attempting to take down giraffe

During the final episode of the series on Sunday, Attenborough narrated a Great Bowerbird's attempt to charm a partner on a golf course in Townsville, Australia.

Basically, the Bowerbird is a collector: he gathers random objects (the shinier the better) around his nest, spends ages arranging them, and then hopes a visiting female will be suitably impressed by the display.

The bird in Sunday's clip was so damn romantic he even stole a red heart to woo any potential visitors.

It’s not easy finding sex in the city. #PlanetEarth2 pic.twitter.com/FE04OE7Lbi — BBC One (@BBCOne) December 11, 2016

People were impressed with the bird's efforts.

That bird with the red heart has a stronger dating game than 99% of human men. #PlanetEarth pic.twitter.com/itNETXqJzS — Kirsty S (@KirstyStricklan) December 11, 2016

Sadly, things didn't go according to plan.

After showcasing his possessions to a visiting bird and having no luck, our plucky hero finally resorted to his glossiest prize: the red heart.

"But he's made a mistake," said Attenborough. "This is not a female, but a young male who hasn't yet developed that head crest — and he's making off with the scarlet heart!"

When you give someone your heart and they run away with it. We’ve all been there, little bird. 😘 #PlanetEarth2 pic.twitter.com/o8iinpWvMX — BBC One (@BBCOne) December 11, 2016

Yep: not only did he not find a mate, but he also literally had his heart stolen.

"It's not easy, finding sex in the city," concluded Attenborough.

David Attenborough's commentary on this treasure collecting bird is hilarious 😂 #PlanetEarth — KC (@Kathryna92) December 11, 2016

Attenborough clearly lives for the weekly 5 minutes of innuendo filled bird on bird action #PlanetEarth — Ollie Shaw-Mellors (@Ollieee392) December 11, 2016

Better luck next time, bird.