Apprehensive Putin Says No To 'Diplomatic Dog' Gifted By Japan's PM Shinzo Abe
Apprehensive Putin Says No To 'Diplomatic Dog' Gifted By Japan's PM Shinzo Abe
Apprehensive Putin Says No To 'Diplomatic Dog' Gifted By Japan's PM Shinzo Abe Russia seems to have slighted Japan by not accepting a dog, as a diplomatic gift, for President Vladimir Putin, who is going to meet Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during a summit on December 15 and 16. Reports tell us that the Japanese government wanted to gift a male Akita to Putin, which is a breed of dogs originating from the northern mountainous regions of Japan. Abe’s government believed Akita would make for a great companion to the female version of the same breed that Tokyo had gifted Putin in 2012. However, Moscow, it has been reported, turned down the diplomatic offer. A Japanese politician in Abe’s cabinet wrote about it in a blog post without offering any details. "Unfortunately, we heard from our counterparts, and our hope to present a bridegroom was dashed," House of Representatives member Koichi Hagiuda said in a blog post on Friday. Putin has consistently shown his love for animals and has been photographed riding horses, swimming with dolphins and cuddling a leopard. Abe and Putin will meet in Japan next week, where they are expected to talk about security and the join naval rescue training that was stopped after Russia annexed the Crimea region in 2014.

Russia seems to have slighted Japan by not accepting a dog, as a diplomatic gift, for President Vladimir Putin, who is going to meet Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during a summit on December 15 and 16.

AFP

Reports tell us that the Japanese government wanted to gift a male Akita to Putin, which is a breed of dogs originating from the northern mountainous regions of Japan. Abe’s government believed Akita would make for a great companion to the female version of the same breed that Tokyo had gifted Putin in 2012.

However, Moscow, it has been reported, turned down the diplomatic offer. A Japanese politician in Abe’s cabinet wrote about it in a blog post without offering any details.

"Unfortunately, we heard from our counterparts, and our hope to present a bridegroom was dashed," House of Representatives member Koichi Hagiuda said in a blog post on Friday.

Reuters

Putin has consistently shown his love for animals and has been photographed riding horses, swimming with dolphins and cuddling a leopard.

Abe and Putin will meet in Japan next week, where they are expected to talk about security and the join naval rescue training that was stopped after Russia annexed the Crimea region in 2014.