EXCLUSIVE: India's Legion Hackers Admit They Have Nothing To Do With Anonymous.
EXCLUSIVE: India's Legion Hackers Admit They Have Nothing To Do With Anonymous.
EXCLUSIVE: India's Legion Hackers Admit They Have Nothing To Do With Anonymous.

Actions speak louder than words, and how! If there’s someone for whom this old adage applies to better than anyone else right now then it’s probably the hacktivist group Legion.

After hacking Twitter accounts belonging to Rahul Gandhi, the Indian National Congress, Vijay Mallya, and NDTV’s Barkha Dutt and Ravish Kumar, to say that hacker group Legion had attained notoriety would be an understatement.

Earlier in the day, we tried to connect the dots between Legion and Anonymous, wondering indeed if Legion was in fact affiliated to Anonymous in any way.

The hacked Twitter accounts dropped some hints on who they were. They call themselves “Legion”, and they sounded surprisingly similar to “Anonymous”.

Legion has only spoken to The Washington Post so far, which got access to one of the person responsible for these high-profile Twitter hacks. "A young man” (who’s obviously extremely tech savvy) sitting in front of his computer, “smoking copious amounts of marijuana” and embarrassing some of the most high-profile names south of the Himalayas, read the report.

That’s very little to go by and the biggest outreach that Legion has done so far through all their recent hacks was to leave a single email address. It asked “supporters of their cause” to join them by sending them an email at legion_group@sigaint.org.

So we sent them a short mail...

So, is Legion connected to Anonymous?

Well, no room for speculation on that front anymore, as Legion have spoken. Not just through messages posted on hacked Twitter accounts, but they just replied to an email we sent them earlier.

In no uncertain terms, Legion made it crystal clear through an email response that they “have no affiliation with Anonymous.”

When asked to delve on the larger message behind their recent Twitter actions, Legion responded by saying that they wanted to “stop letting mainstream politics, media and big corporations take you for a ride.”

Ooh... the plot thickens!