Jeremy Corbyn has 12 months to turn the Labour Party around, according to his closest allies
Jeremy Corbyn has 12 months to turn the Labour Party around, according to his closest allies 
eremy Corbyn has 12 months to turn around the Labour’s Party’s dire poll ratings, two of his closest allies have said. Diane Abbott, the shadow Home Secretary, and Ken Livingstone, the former mayor of London, both insisted that the Labour leader will “close the polling gap” within one year. Mr Livingstone said that Mr Corbyn’s allies will “all be worried” if there is not an improvement, amid growing concerns that the party faces electoral annihilation at the next general election. Ken Livingstone gives Corbyn 12 months: "If it's as bad as this in a year's time, we would all be worried" #bbcsp  https://t.co/6QOyoN8ySn peaking to the BBC’s Andrew Marr show, Ms Abbott conceded Labour has gone through a “very difficult year” and argued “it was always going to take time to pull round from that”. “But I think we are coming together now. We’ve got a new chief whip, Nick Brown, who’s one of the most experienced party managers in the House of Commons,” she said. “I think that as we come together, as you hear less noises off, I believe we can close the polling gap.” hen asked to give a timeline for Labour to narrow the gap to the Tories in the opinion polls, Ms Abbott replied: “I’m confident we’re going to close the gap in the coming 12 months. “We’ve had a pretty difficult 12 months – partly [due to] Jeremy’s enemies in the party, partly commentators. But we have the right policies and we have the right leader.” Speaking later to the Sunday Politics programme, Mr Livingstone said: “If in a year’s time it was still as bad as this we’d all be worried. I don’t think it will be because Jeremy and his team are going to focus on the economy and that’s what wins every election.” Ms Abbott went on to defend the party's stance on Brexit. Two senior Labour figures, its Manchester mayor candidate Andy Burnham and Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones, have in recent days spoke out about the impacts of immigration. hen asked about these views, Ms Abbott said: "We believe in regional autonomy and Andy has always had those views. "But the truth is you cannot have access to the single market without a measure of freedom of movement. "Wales, and the West Country, and the North East are some of the parts of the country that have the most to lose. "Some of the areas that were most pro-Brexit are actually the areas that we need to fight for, in terms of investment and in terms of protecting British interests. "My experiences of Labour party members all over the country want immigration rules that are fair and they want reasonable management of migration." Would Labour block Brexit? "Not in a trivial way" says @HackneyAbbott  #marr  https://t.co/ZgbSZr5V0t hen asked if people who voted Brexit wanted to see "less foreign looking people", Ms Abbott said: "There is that element, there's no question about that. "There are perfectly legitimate political reasons for voting for Brexit. "If Tony Benn was alive he'd have voted for Brexit, so I don't tar all the people that voted for Brexit with the same brush. "People are very frightened about this debate on Brexit."

Jeremy Corbyn has 12 months to turn around the Labour’s Party’s dire poll ratings, two of his closest allies have said.

Diane Abbott, the shadow Home Secretary, and Ken Livingstone, the former mayor of London, both insisted that the Labour leader will “close the polling gap” within one year.

Mr Livingstone said that Mr Corbyn’s allies will “all be worried” if there is not an improvement, amid growing concerns that the party faces electoral annihilation at the next general election.