Former Major League Pitcher Becomes Police Officer
Former Major League Pitcher Becomes Police Officer
Shares                A former Major League Baseball pitcher has hung up his jersey and become a police officer. Anthony Varvaro graduated from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police academy on Friday. He was a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox , Atlanta Braves and Seattle Mariners from 2010 to 2015. He went 7-9 in six seasons before an arm injury sidelined him for most of 2015. The 32-year-old from New York graduated in a ceremony in Elizabeth along with 79 others. The Port Authority Police Department patrols the New York region's airports, tunnels, bridges and a transit system. Friday's graduating class includes 46 New Yorkers, 33 new officers from New Jersey and one moving from Florida. Nine of the recruits have served in the military. Shares                  Former Major League Pitcher Becomes Police Officer   Jay Z takes shot at Phil Jackson while introducing LeBron James   NFL to play 4 regular-season games in London during '17 season   Chad Bettis says he expects to make full recovery from testicular cancer   Cardinals WR Michael Floyd arrested on DUI, other charges   Konrad Reuland, former Ravens and Jets TE, dies at 29 after brain aneurysm   Possible head-coaching candidates for Rams   ESPN's Basketball Power Index   Alabama QB Jalen Hurts leads true freshman All-America team   ESPN FC's Football Rogues   Cowboys coach Jason Garrett makes it clear Dak Prescott is starting QB   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   Putin Ready to Meet Trump 'at Any Moment'   US, S. Korea, Japan Vow Cooperation Over N. Korea Sanctions   Michigan to Audit 'Significant' Mismatches in Detroit Vote   Republicans Grapple With How to Repeal Obamacare   Fiorina Says She Discussed China, Hacking With Trump   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms   4-Year-Old With Leukemia Turned Into Princess for a Day   Discovery of Dinosaur Tail Encased in Amber Sheds Light on Evolution   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Shop Hires People Based on Their Dance Moves   Hilarious Freak-Out When Granddaughter Walks Alone at Night

A former Major League Baseball pitcher has hung up his jersey and become a police officer.

Anthony Varvaro graduated from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police academy on Friday.

He was a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox, Atlanta Braves and Seattle Mariners from 2010 to 2015. He went 7-9 in six seasons before an arm injury sidelined him for most of 2015.

The 32-year-old from New York graduated in a ceremony in Elizabeth along with 79 others.

The Port Authority Police Department patrols the New York region's airports, tunnels, bridges and a transit system.

Friday's graduating class includes 46 New Yorkers, 33 new officers from New Jersey and one moving from Florida. Nine of the recruits have served in the military.