Donald Trump: China says US President-elect's stance on Taiwan a threat to bilateral ties



Donald Trump: China says US President-elect's stance on Taiwan a threat to bilateral ties

Updated

China has warned that bilateral cooperation with the US will be "out of the question" if President-elect Donald Trump does not recognise its "one-China" policy.

China's Foreign Ministry said it was "seriously concerned" about Mr Trump questioning why he should be bound by the long-standing policy, which recognises China and Taiwan as one country.

In an interview with Fox News, Mr Trump said it was not up to Beijing to decide whether he should take a call from Taiwan's leader.

The comments come a week after he brushed aside Beijing's concerns about his decision to accept a phone call from Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen, in a call that caused diplomatic shockwaves in Beijing.

Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said that Mr Trump's comments in the television interview over the weekend raised the possibility that US-China relations would be "badly affected".

Mr Geng said the "one-China" policy was the "political foundation" of any Sino-American ties.

"We urge the new US leader and government to fully understand the seriousness of the Taiwan issue, and to continue to stick to the one-China policy," Mr Geng said.

Mr Trump told Fox News he does not want China telling him what to do.

"It was a very nice call. Short. And why should some other nation be able to say I can't take a call?" he said.

"I think it actually would've been very disrespectful, to be honest with you, not taking it."

State media calls for 'resolute struggle' with Trump

Hours after the interview aired, China's Communist Party-controlled Global Times published a Chinese-language editorial headlined: "Trump, please listen clearly: 'One China' cannot be traded."

"China needs to launch a resolute struggle with him," the editorial said.

"Only after he's hit some obstacles and truly understands that China and the rest of the world are not to be bullied will he gain some perception."

The United States switched relations from Taipei to Beijing in 1979.

China considers Taiwan to be part of China and any reference to a separate Taiwanese Government as a grave insult.

ABC/wires

Topics: world-politics, us-elections, united-states, china, asia

First posted