Arsenal drawn against Bayern Munich in Champions League last 16

Arsenal will face Bayern Munich in the last16 of the Champions League , a draw that will lead to a great level of frustration among the club’s staff and supporters given they topped their group for the first time since 2012. Having finished above Paris Saint-Germain in Group A , Arsenal hoped to be rewarded with a favourable tie. Instead, however, they will face the Bundesliga champions and five-time winners of Europe’s elite competition. Manchester City , meanwhile, have been drawn to face Monaco, having finished behind Barcelona in their group, while Leicester City, who came top of Group G will face Sevilla.. Elsewhere, the holders Real Madrid will face Napoli, while Barcelona take on Paris Saint-Germain. Benfica were drawn against Borussia Dortmund and fellow Bundesliga side Bayer Leverkusen are to take on Atlético Madrid. This will be the fourth out of the past five seasons that Arsenal have faced Bayern in the Champions League. Arsène Wenger’s side lost to the Germans at this stage in 2012-13 and 2013-2014 and they had one win apiece in the group stages in 2015-16. Arsenal have not progressed beyond the last 16 since 2009-10 when they defeated Porto, but lost to Barcelona in the quarter-finals. Since then they have lost six times in succession at this stage, twice to Bayern, twice to Barcelona, and also to Milan in 2012 and Monaco in 2015. Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola, who failed to win the Champions League in his three years at Bayern Munich , will know his side could have been paired with more illustrious opponents than Monaco, although the French side defeated Tottenham twice in the group stage and are just a point behind Nice at the top of Ligue 1 after their 4-0 win at Bordeaux on Saturday. Leicester’s first taste of European Cup knockout football sees them meet the Europa League holders Sevilla, a side now managed by Jorge Sampaoli and currently sitting in third place in La Liga. Champions League last 16 Bayern Munich v Arsenal Manchester City v Monaco Sevilla v Leicester City Real Madrid v Napoli Benfica v Borussia Dortmund Porto v Juventus Bayer Leverkusn v Atletico Madrid Paris Saint-Germain v Barcelona First legs to be held 14/15 February and 21/22 February, with second legs on 7/8 March and 14/15 March. Topics  Arsenal   Bayern Munich   Champions League   Manchester City   Leicester City

Arsenal will face Bayern Munich in the last16 of the Champions League, a draw that will lead to a great level of frustration among the club’s staff and supporters given they topped their group for the first time since 2012.

Having finished above Paris Saint-Germain in Group A, Arsenal hoped to be rewarded with a favourable tie. Instead, however, they will face the Bundesliga champions and five-time winners of Europe’s elite competition.

Champions League last 16: which clubs will qualify for the quarter-finals? – poll Read more

Manchester City, meanwhile, have been drawn to face Monaco, having finished behind Barcelona in their group, while Leicester City, who came top of Group G will face Sevilla..

Elsewhere, the holders Real Madrid will face Napoli, while Barcelona take on Paris Saint-Germain. Benfica were drawn against Borussia Dortmund and fellow Bundesliga side Bayer Leverkusen are to take on Atlético Madrid.

This will be the fourth out of the past five seasons that Arsenal have faced Bayern in the Champions League. Arsène Wenger’s side lost to the Germans at this stage in 2012-13 and 2013-2014 and they had one win apiece in the group stages in 2015-16.

Arsenal face Bayern Munich in Champions League last 16 draw – as it happened Read more

Arsenal have not progressed beyond the last 16 since 2009-10 when they defeated Porto, but lost to Barcelona in the quarter-finals. Since then they have lost six times in succession at this stage, twice to Bayern, twice to Barcelona, and also to Milan in 2012 and Monaco in 2015.

Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola, who failed to win the Champions League in his three years at Bayern Munich, will know his side could have been paired with more illustrious opponents than Monaco, although the French side defeated Tottenham twice in the group stage and are just a point behind Nice at the top of Ligue 1 after their 4-0 win at Bordeaux on Saturday.

Leicester’s first taste of European Cup knockout football sees them meet the Europa League holders Sevilla, a side now managed by Jorge Sampaoli and currently sitting in third place in La Liga.

Champions League last 16

Bayern Munich v Arsenal

Manchester City v Monaco

Sevilla v Leicester City

Real Madrid v Napoli

Benfica v Borussia Dortmund

Porto v Juventus

Bayer Leverkusn v Atletico Madrid

Paris Saint-Germain v Barcelona

First legs to be held 14/15 February and 21/22 February, with second legs on 7/8 March and 14/15 March.