Missy Elliott Pays Tribute to Aaliyah's 'Timeless Music & Style' 20 Years After 'One in a Million' Was Released
Missy Elliott Pays Tribute to Aaliyah's 'Timeless Music & Style' 20 Years After 'One in a Million' Was Released
2016 No. 1s: Video Interviews With Chainsmokers, Gucci Mane, Kelsea Ballerini, Pretty Reckless & More 2016 No. 1s: James Bay on His Breakthrough Year & Feeling 'Indestructible' 2016 No. 1s: Lukas Graham Frontman Shares the Songwriting Tip That Inspired '7 Years' 2016 No. 1s: The 1975 on Living for Music & Challenging 'the Status Quo' Missy Elliott Pays Tribute to Aaliyah's 'Timeless Music & Style' 20 Years After 'One in a Million' Was Released  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Dec. 10 marked the 20-year anniversary of Aaliyah 's hit R&B single "One in a Million," released in 1996. The song, co-written by Missy Elliott and Timbaland , appeared on the late singer's album of the same name. Elliott remembered her peer, who passed away at the young age of 22, with a touching note. "Time flies! And there's still not a day that goes by that u aren't inspiring new artist[s] with your TIMELESS music & style! U will never be forgotten Aaliyah (Babygirl)," she wrote on Instagram alongside a still of Aaliyah from her "One in a Million" music video. Aaliyah, born Aaliyah Dana Haughton, died in a 2001 plane crash in the Bahamas, where she had traveled to for a video shoot.  Elliott is one of many artists who loved and have recognized the influence of Aaliyah on R&B and hip-hop. In 2010, Drake penned a letter in her honor , writing: "I remember getting the news that you had passed and it connected with my heart like a clean shot from Muhammad Ali. I was crushed. Not only was I one of your biggest fans but I was truly in love with you. I loved the way you carried yourself, the way you dressed, the confidence with which you addressed passion and relationships in your music." Time flies! And there's still not a day that goes by that u aren't inspiring new artist with your TIMELESS music & style! U will never be forgotten Aaliyah (Babygirl) We u! A photo posted by Missy Elliott (@missymisdemeanorelliott) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Dec. 10 marked the 20-year anniversary of Aaliyah's hit R&B single "One in a Million," released in 1996. The song, co-written by Missy Elliott and Timbaland, appeared on the late singer's album of the same name. Elliott remembered her peer, who passed away at the young age of 22, with a touching note.

"Time flies! And there's still not a day that goes by that u aren't inspiring new artist[s] with your TIMELESS music & style! U will never be forgotten Aaliyah (Babygirl)," she wrote on Instagram alongside a still of Aaliyah from her "One in a Million" music video.

Aaliyah, born Aaliyah Dana Haughton, died in a 2001 plane crash in the Bahamas, where she had traveled to for a video shoot.

Elliott is one of many artists who loved and have recognized the influence of Aaliyah on R&B and hip-hop.

In 2010, Drake penned a letter in her honor, writing: "I remember getting the news that you had passed and it connected with my heart like a clean shot from Muhammad Ali. I was crushed. Not only was I one of your biggest fans but I was truly in love with you. I loved the way you carried yourself, the way you dressed, the confidence with which you addressed passion and relationships in your music."