Rick Ross on Kanye West 'Wigging Out': 'He Played Ya'll'
Rick Ross on Kanye West 'Wigging Out': 'He Played Ya'll'
Rick Ross made a very interesting comment about Kanye West during a recent appearance in NYC. "One time for Yeezy," began Ross as the audience cheered. "My homie a genius. For everybody who thought he was wigging out, he played y'all niggas." Related Rick Ross Says He Has Some "Music in the Vault" With Kanye West Kanye West Is Reportedly Working on New Music at Home Following Hospitalization Teyana Taylor Advises 'Workaholic' Kanye West: 'Take Your Time' The comment from Ross comes after a chaotic time for 'Ye who was hospitalized following some emotional outbursts on the Saint Pablo Tour. The rapper was reportedly placed on a 5150 hold after an incident at the gym and only recently was allowed to leave the hospital and go home . Soon enough, reports that Kim Kardashian wanted a divorce and was living separately from her husband began to surface. Sources close to the family, including the pair's co-star, Jonathan Cheban, have since slammed that rumor . According to Cheban, "they're going to be great" and Kanye is "doing much better." The Maybach Music founder has collaborated more than once with Kanye in the past so the pair obviously have a relationship. A year ago, Ross even said he had some "music in the vault" with Kanye . It's still a pretty odd comment with even odder timing for Ross to make it while standing next to frequent 'Ye collaborator, Mike Dean . You can watch Ross make the comment for yourself above.

Rick Ross made a very interesting comment about Kanye West during a recent appearance in NYC. "One time for Yeezy," began Ross as the audience cheered. "My homie a genius. For everybody who thought he was wigging out, he played y'all niggas."

The comment from Ross comes after a chaotic time for 'Ye who was hospitalized following some emotional outbursts on the Saint Pablo Tour. The rapper was reportedly placed on a 5150 hold after an incident at the gym and only recently was allowed to leave the hospital and go home. Soon enough, reports that Kim Kardashian wanted a divorce and was living separately from her husband began to surface. Sources close to the family, including the pair's Keeping Up co-star, Jonathan Cheban, have since slammed that rumor. According to Cheban, "they're going to be great" and Kanye is "doing much better."

The Maybach Music founder has collaborated more than once with Kanye in the past so the pair obviously have a relationship. A year ago, Ross even said he had some "music in the vault" with Kanye.

It's still a pretty odd comment with even odder timing for Ross to make it while standing next to frequent 'Ye collaborator, Mike Dean. You can watch Ross make the comment for yourself above.