UPS Driver Saves Woman Who Wrote 'Contact 911' on Box After Being Attacked, Held Captive
UPS Driver Saves Woman Who Wrote 'Contact 911' on Box After Being Beaten, Held Captive
A UPS delivery driver is being praised after he helped save a Missouri woman's life. The UPS driver received a package with "contact 911" written on it—so he did. That call led police to free the woman, who was allegedly being abused and held captive in her own home by her husband. The alleged abuser has since been arrested and charged . According to KMOV , a woman was beaten and held captive by her husband in her own home near Robertsville, Missouri. During the 15-hour ordeal, the couple's 3-year-old child was locked in his room with no food or water. Related A Woman Who Killed Her Husband and His Teenage Lover Pleaded Guilty to Double Murder Woman Sentenced to Prison for Impersonating Ex-Boyfriend on Facebook and Nearly Ruining His Life Feds' Investigation of Kansas Anti-Muslim Terror Plot Leads to Child Pornography Discovery The woman's husband reportedly wouldn't allow the woman to leave the home or use the phone. According to CNN , the suspect, 33-year-old James Jordan, allegedly beat the woman, punching and slapping her, and also forced her to strip before he sexually assaulted her. At one point, Jordan dragged the woman back into the home by her hair after she had tried to escape. Jordan had a pistol, which he put to the woman's head at times and threatened to kill her, and then himself. On Tuesday, when the UPS delivery driver arrived, the woman answered the door—while the man allegedly stood behind her with a gun—and was able to write "contact 911" on the package as the driver took it from her. The driver then contacted the police. A SWAT team responded to the call, freeing the woman and her child and taking Jordan into custody. Franklin County Sheriff's Department Sergeant T.J. Wild told KMOV , "He made a huge difference." With his bond set at $100,000, Jordan faces charges of domestic assault, felonious restraint, sodomy, unlawful use of a weapon, and endangering the welfare of a child. In a statement to CNN , UPS praised their driver, saying, "We are grateful this UPS driver with more than a decade of service followed protocol when he saw a customer in distress and contacted authorities after he saw her message to contact 9-1-1."

A UPS delivery driver is being praised after he helped save a Missouri woman's life. The UPS driver received a package with "contact 911" written on it—so he did. That call led police to free the woman, who was allegedly being abused and held captive in her own home by her husband. The alleged abuser has since been arrested and charged.

According to KMOV, a woman was beaten and held captive by her husband in her own home near Robertsville, Missouri. During the 15-hour ordeal, the couple's 3-year-old child was locked in his room with no food or water.

The woman's husband reportedly wouldn't allow the woman to leave the home or use the phone. According to CNN, the suspect, 33-year-old James Jordan, allegedly beat the woman, punching and slapping her, and also forced her to strip before he sexually assaulted her. At one point, Jordan dragged the woman back into the home by her hair after she had tried to escape.

Jordan had a pistol, which he put to the woman's head at times and threatened to kill her, and then himself. On Tuesday, when the UPS delivery driver arrived, the woman answered the door—while the man allegedly stood behind her with a gun—and was able to write "contact 911" on the package as the driver took it from her. The driver then contacted the police.

A SWAT team responded to the call, freeing the woman and her child and taking Jordan into custody. Franklin County Sheriff's Department Sergeant T.J. Wild told KMOV, "He made a huge difference."

With his bond set at $100,000, Jordan faces charges of domestic assault, felonious restraint, sodomy, unlawful use of a weapon, and endangering the welfare of a child.

In a statement to CNN, UPS praised their driver, saying, "We are grateful this UPS driver with more than a decade of service followed protocol when he saw a customer in distress and contacted authorities after he saw her message to contact 9-1-1."