Russian special forces shown in footage showing Putin's troops in Syria
First footage showing Putin's troops engaging on the ground in Syria 


rebels before they go to

Footage has emerged showing Russian troops engaging in battle on the ground in Syria for the first time.

The footage was broadcast on state-owned TV channel Rossiya 24 yesterday and shows special forces assassinating rebels, carrying out sniper attacks and employing robot tanks to roll around the streets.

It also shows Putin's elite units taking part in search and rescue operations, and co-ordintating airstrikes.

Footage has emerged showing Russian troops engaging in battle on the ground in Syria for the first time

The footage was broadcast on state-owned TV channel Rossiya 24 yesterday and shows troops with Russia's most elite units

In some of the more gruesome footage the soldiers can also be seen shooting targets at close range before going in to inspect the rebel's corpses.

The presenter of the weekly news show that broadcast the footage said it was filmed in Syria but would not give any more details on the exact location.

Russia first acknowledged the presence of its special forces in Syria during the recapture of the city of Palmyra from ISIS in March.

But so far it has provided no information on the number of deployed or their exact location.

However, it was reported today that ISIS has recaptured territory close to Palmyra and that a suspected gas attack had been carried out.

In one clip a van with rebels standing on the back can be seen being driven down the street

The next moment, the vehicle is the target of an explosion and the van explodes into a fireball

Citing local sources near the site of the attack in eastern Hama province, the Syrian Observatory on Human Rights said there were cases of suffocation and that 52 people had been killed.

The reported attack came from the air and took place near the town of Uqairabat, which lies on a main road leading south into Palmyra from government-held territory, the Observatory said, without specifying who might have been responsible.

Amaq, a news service linked to ISIS, said in an online statement that 20 people had died and around 200 were injured from breathing problems 'as a result of a Russian air attack with sarin gas'.

But both the Syrian army and Russia have denied using chemical weapons.

The footage also shows special forces assassinating rebels, carrying out sniper attacks and employing robot tanks to roll around the streets

The presenter of the weekly news show that broadcast the footage said it was filmed in Syria but would not give any more details on the exact location

On Sunday, Islamic State militants recaptured Palmyra despite dozens of Russian air strikes attempting to push them back. It had previously been driven from the city in March.

Meanwhile, the EU has no plans to impose sanctions on Russia over the conflict in Syria, foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said Monday ahead of a leaders' summit this week.

'No, we didn't discuss at all sanctions, and there was no member state asking for additional work on sanctions' against Russia, Mogherini said after a meeting of European Union foreign ministers.

EU leaders backed down from threatening sanctions on Moscow over the carnage in Aleppo at their last summit in October amid deep divisions in the bloc about how tough to be on Russia.