This Rescued Pit Bull's Smile Is the Cutest Thing You'll See Today

This Rescued Pit Bull's Smile Is the Cutest Thing You'll See Today // // // A stray pit bull who was rescued off the streets of New York City just can't stop smiling! Jon Bozak and his dog Demo were walking in Brooklyn when they came across an 11-month-old pup wandering around on its own. Bozak decided to call the dog Brinks and take him in while he tried to find his owner. After a month of checking missing dog reports and posting flyers without luck, he realized that Brinks was a permanent member of his family. Bozak said he noticed Brinks' penchant for smiling like a human right away. “I think I first discovered Brinks could smile the very first day I found him. I’d thrown him in the car and he got in to the front seat and just kind of made himself at home," Bozak said. “I don’t think he’s a clown, or walking through life goofily smiling because everything cracks him up, but he does smile as an expression," Bozak said. "I think it’s a very, ‘I’m a friend, trust me’ sort of smile. He does it in reaction to things that you’d think make a dog or a living creature smile; food, getting petted." “No matter how bad the day is, or how bad the job is, no matter how down you think you can get; you look at that dog and his smile, and you can’t help but be happy.” 11 years after being found on the streets and being taken into Bozak's home, Brinks is still smiling. He even has his own Instagram page , with 80,000 followers! See Brinks flashing his pearly whites below, and share your reaction in the comments!

'I Don't Believe It': Trump Responds to CIA Rpt of Russian Interference

Kellyanne Conway Honored in NJ Hometown's Christmas Parade

Judge Jeanine Slams Obama: 'Why Are You So Obsessed With Russia?'

A stray pit bull who was rescued off the streets of New York City just can't stop smiling!

Jon Bozak and his dog Demo were walking in Brooklyn when they came across an 11-month-old pup wandering around on its own.

Bozak decided to call the dog Brinks and take him in while he tried to find his owner.

After a month of checking missing dog reports and posting flyers without luck, he realized that Brinks was a permanent member of his family.

Bozak said he noticed Brinks' penchant for smiling like a human right away.

“I think I first discovered Brinks could smile the very first day I found him. I’d thrown him in the car and he got in to the front seat and just kind of made himself at home," Bozak said.

“I don’t think he’s a clown, or walking through life goofily smiling because everything cracks him up, but he does smile as an expression," Bozak said. "I think it’s a very, ‘I’m a friend, trust me’ sort of smile. He does it in reaction to things that you’d think make a dog or a living creature smile; food, getting petted."

“No matter how bad the day is, or how bad the job is, no matter how down you think you can get; you look at that dog and his smile, and you can’t help but be happy.”

11 years after being found on the streets and being taken into Bozak's home, Brinks is still smiling.

He even has his own Instagram page, with 80,000 followers!

See Brinks flashing his pearly whites below, and share your reaction in the comments!

WATCH: 'SNL' Spoofs Trump's Cabinet: DEA Administrator 'Walter White'

Mike Rowe: Is the American Dream Dead?

Gorka: Some Countries Should Indeed Fear Trump