Golden Globes 2017: Stars React to Nominations
Golden Globes 2017: Stars React to Nominations
Shares               The nominations for the 74th annual Golden Globe Awards were announced early this morning. And although some stars might still be sound asleep, other celebs are celebrating. Mahershala Ali, one of the stars of "Moonlight," which earned six nods, woke up to the news that he was nominated in the best supporting actor in a motion picture category. The actor, 42, said today on " Good Morning America " that he's "just appreciative" of his career.     "I'm really appreciative for the time it's taken to kind of get to this moment," he added. "I've had a lot of help along the way and a lot of people really support me along my journey and it's been wonderful. I'm really happy and feel blessed to be in such good company." Ali is going up against Jeff Bridges , Dev Patel, Simon Helberg and Aaron Taylor-Johnson in the category. We'll find out who wins when the award ceremony is broadcast live on Jan. 8. "Westworld's" Evan Rachel Wood was nominated for best actress in a drama series. She was heading to the airport when she discovered her nomination. The actress said on "GMA" that she's "so proud. It's such a good show, and I just, I couldn't be happier." Other nominated actors and actresses have issued statements or have taken to social media to share their joy. Here are others who are celebrating:  "Thank you so much to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association who have always been so incredibly supportive of me throughout my career. I'm really honored to be recognized for 'Arrival,' a film I so deeply loved working on. Thank you to Eric [Heisserer] for his brilliant script, Jeremy [Renner] for being an amazing partner and Denis [Villeneuve] for his incredible guidance and capturing the true heart and soul of this film. I'd also like to congratulate Tom Ford and Aaron Taylor Johnson for their 'Nocturnal Animals' nominations."  "Huge thanks to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and the Russian hackers that made our nominations possible."  Thank you, Golden Globes! As we speak, the entire Deadpool team is engaged in a grotesque, early morning tickle-fight. pic.twitter.com/l2LJT32tAi   "I've never felt so shocked, honored, and proud. Thank you from the bottom of my heart to my fearless leader and mentor Warren Beatty, the Hollywood Foreign Press, and to all those involved with 'Rules Don't Apply.' Sharing this moment with my mom sitting on our couch in the dark is something I'll never forget. It's a complete dream come true. I still can't breathe."  The moment your mom captures you being nominated for your first @goldenglobes . I still can't breathe... https://t.co/X1F1aj3ccE  pic.twitter.com/zBiardzuwv   Here we go! What a surprise to arrive at work to this news! #blackish  #goldenglobes  pic.twitter.com/BDjWIEqBWW   "Thank you HFPA! I'm absolutely thrilled to be counted amongst this year's nominees. I'm deeply indebted to Steve Zaillian, Richard Price, HBO, to all the cast and crew of 'The Night Of' for their dedication in bringing this timely story to life, and all those who shared their stories of prison and prejudice with me in researching this role. It was an honour to portray Nas, and through him the untold stories of so many."  Thank you @HFPA I maybe across the world but in my heart im hugging each one of you. And thank you @JennieUrman for making me your Jane. ??   We must champion brave voices in times of adversity. Thank u @goldenglobes 4 acknowledging #CONFIRMATION in this way! Humbled by the nom ????   "I am profoundly grateful for this recognition ... I can't thank the HFPA enough for their support, this is such an honor. I am humbled to be in the company of all of these extraordinary, talented, and powerful women. It has been such a gift to share Mildred and Richard Loving's important story with the world. I share this honor with my partner in the film, Joel Edgerton, our incredible director Jeff Nichols and everyone involved in bringing 'Loving' to life."  WOW. Once again, you have made my dreams come true, @goldenglobes . I and everyone at #CrazyExGirlfriend are BEYOND grateful!!!    #hfpa Y'all crazy for this one...& I couldn't be more grateful! Thank you for such a tremendous honor! What a wonderful way to finish off the year...wow! In recognition that no one gets to this place in their career by themselves, I have to first thank my wife and two children for giving me such a clear purpose for being. Ryan, Andrew, Amaré...you guys make this all worthwhile! Jennifer Wiley Stockton...thank you for doing so much, so that I can stay focused on the task at hand. Let us never part. Michael Geiser, you are unsung, sir! (And if you erase this from my statement, we'll have words)! Love you, buddy. To my agents at Innovative Artists, especially my man, David Rose, thank you for giving your boy all the support he could ask for. St. Louis, I rep you 'til the day I die! To all my family and friends there, thank you for making your boy feel special. #ChocolateCardinal y'all know I luvs you! To my artistic family from NYC, including (but not limited to) my friends and faculty at the grad acting program at NYU, thank you for keeping your boy nourished and fed. Literally and spiritually. Namaste #goldenglobes #peoplevsojsimpson A photo posted by Sterling Brown (@sterlingkb1) on Dec 12, 2016 at 6:51am PST   "I'm incredibly grateful to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for recognizing me in this group of distinguished and accomplished actors. I'm thrilled to be sharing this moment with my co-star and fellow nominee Christian Slater. I am so thankful for the brilliant mind of Sam Esmail, USA Network, Universal Cable Productions, and the exceptionally gifted cast, crew, and writers of 'Mr. Robot.'"  "Gracias. Merci. Grazie. Danke sehr. Mahalo. Thank you Hollywood Foreign Press Association for this tremendous honor. Congratulations to my fellow nominees. Over two years ago, I was lucky enough to have been given my dream job, writing songs for a Disney animated film, alongside the amazing Opetaia Foa'i & Mark Mancina. Today, for 'Moana' to be recognized for what we created is truly beyond comprehension. 'How Far I'll Go' not only embodies the spirit of our heroine but the central lesson from the film — dream big, listen to your gut, don't give up, never forget where you came from, and one day you might just save the world."  And they say Monday mornings are hard!! Not today!!!! Ahhh! ?? https://t.co/rDHMZiJitx    Nothing I wouldn't do for these guys. Congrats on the #goldenglobes nomination for #best #comedy #series and to Donald for his #best #actor nomination. #atlantafx!!! What a year, and all of you are to thank!! Thank you for showing us nothing but love from the beginning A photo posted by briantyreehenry (@briantyreehenry) on Dec 12, 2016 at 6:26am PST   "This nomination is even more emotional and I'm more grateful than ever before. Thank you to the Hollywood Foreign Press!"  "I'm so honored to be recognized by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. I had such a beautiful experience making this film with the most wonderful cast and crew, and particularly with our great director, Pablo Larrain, that it feels like icing on the cake to be nominated."  "I am deeply humbled to be nominated for a Golden Globe for playing this particular role. The women of 'Hidden Figures' story are hidden no more. Thank you HFPA."  CALL ME A GOLDEN GLOBE NOMINEE!!! OH MY GOD. I'm in tears. And on a plane. About to take off. AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!! #EdgeOf17   "I am overcome with excitement and joy to be nominated for 'The Edge of Seventeen.' We set out to make a film that would resonate with men and women of all ages because the message of self-acceptance and embracing your truth is universal. Contrary to the reality that I face as a young actress on a daily basis, 'Eo17' isn't a film about a teenage girl wrestling with her identity and self-worth because of the influence of social media defining her popularity. Instead, it's an anthem for self-acceptance and I'm so grateful to Jim Brooks and Kelly Fremon-Craig for granting me the opportunity to play such a complex and unlikely heroine."  "Congratulations to our incredible crew and a deep thank you to Kenny Lonergan and the entire cast who poured their hearts and souls into this, and thank you as well to the HFPA for championing a little movie like ours."  "I'm thrilled to be acknowledged in this talented peer group with such amazing actresses. I would not be here without the brilliant direction of John Madden. Thank you to EuropaCorp for making such a daring film, particularly now, and thank you to the HFPA for this honor." Shares                  Golden Globes 2017: Stars React to Nominations   What Critics Are Saying About 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story'   Ben Affleck Says Matt Damon's Jealous He Gets to Play Batman   LeBron James 'Humbled' by SI Sportsperson of the Year Award   Jennifer Lawrence Gets Back at Chris Pratt for Pranks   Jonathan Lipnicki and 'Jerry Maguire' 20 Years Later   Mark Wahlberg Is Optimistic About Future Under Trump   'Flip or Flop' Hosts Split but Show Will Continue for Now   Viola Davis Gives Moving Speech at Critics' Choice Awards   Golden Globes 2017: Snubs and Surprises   'The Fate of the Furious' Full-Length Trailer Released   'Moana' Stays Afloat, Leads Box Office for 3rd Straight Week   How a Single Senate Republican Could Tank Tillerson's Nomination   Trump Taps ExxonMobil CEO With Ties to Putin as Secretary of State   Trump Expected to Name Rick Perry as Energy Secretary   8 Million Cuisinart Food Processors Recalled   Obama: President Without Briefings Would Be 'Flying Blind'   Official Suspended After Racist Obama Post to Return to Job   Federal Judge Asked to Block Part of Florida Abortion Law   Oklahoma May Require Restroom Signs in Anti-Abortion Effort   Moose Rescued From Icy River by Firefighters in Canada   Grieving Mom Hides Hot Wheels Around Town in Honor of Late Son   'Secret Santa' Pays Off Overdue Lunch Balances for Kids at Pennsylvania School   How One Model Is Challenging Beauty Norms

The nominations for the 74th annual Golden Globe Awards were announced early this morning. And although some stars might still be sound asleep, other celebs are celebrating.

Mahershala Ali, one of the stars of "Moonlight," which earned six nods, woke up to the news that he was nominated in the best supporting actor in a motion picture category.

The actor, 42, said today on "Good Morning America" that he's "just appreciative" of his career.

"I'm really appreciative for the time it's taken to kind of get to this moment," he added. "I've had a lot of help along the way and a lot of people really support me along my journey and it's been wonderful. I'm really happy and feel blessed to be in such good company."

Ali is going up against Jeff Bridges, Dev Patel, Simon Helberg and Aaron Taylor-Johnson in the category.

We'll find out who wins when the award ceremony is broadcast live on Jan. 8.

"Westworld's" Evan Rachel Wood was nominated for best actress in a drama series. She was heading to the airport when she discovered her nomination.

The actress said on "GMA" that she's "so proud. It's such a good show, and I just, I couldn't be happier."

Other nominated actors and actresses have issued statements or have taken to social media to share their joy.

Here are others who are celebrating:

Amy Adams: "Thank you so much to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association who have always been so incredibly supportive of me throughout my career. I'm really honored to be recognized for 'Arrival,' a film I so deeply loved working on. Thank you to Eric [Heisserer] for his brilliant script, Jeremy [Renner] for being an amazing partner and Denis [Villeneuve] for his incredible guidance and capturing the true heart and soul of this film. I'd also like to congratulate Tom Ford and Aaron Taylor Johnson for their 'Nocturnal Animals' nominations."

Julia Louis-Dreyfus: "Huge thanks to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and the Russian hackers that made our nominations possible."

Thank you, Golden Globes! As we speak, the entire Deadpool team is engaged in a grotesque, early morning tickle-fight. pic.twitter.com/l2LJT32tAi — Ryan Reynolds (@VancityReynolds) December 12, 2016

Lily Collins: "I've never felt so shocked, honored, and proud. Thank you from the bottom of my heart to my fearless leader and mentor Warren Beatty, the Hollywood Foreign Press, and to all those involved with 'Rules Don't Apply.' Sharing this moment with my mom sitting on our couch in the dark is something I'll never forget. It's a complete dream come true. I still can't breathe."

The moment your mom captures you being nominated for your first @goldenglobes. I still can't breathe...https://t.co/X1F1aj3ccE pic.twitter.com/zBiardzuwv — Lily Collins (@lilycollins) December 12, 2016

Here we go! What a surprise to arrive at work to this news! #blackish #goldenglobes pic.twitter.com/BDjWIEqBWW — Anthony Anderson (@anthonyanderson) December 12, 2016

Riz Ahmed: "Thank you HFPA! I'm absolutely thrilled to be counted amongst this year's nominees. I'm deeply indebted to Steve Zaillian, Richard Price, HBO, to all the cast and crew of 'The Night Of' for their dedication in bringing this timely story to life, and all those who shared their stories of prison and prejudice with me in researching this role. It was an honour to portray Nas, and through him the untold stories of so many."

Thank you @HFPA I maybe across the world but in my heart im hugging each one of you. And thank you @JennieUrman for making me your Jane. ?? — Gina Rodriguez (@HereIsGina) December 12, 2016

We must champion brave voices in times of adversity. Thank u @goldenglobes 4 acknowledging #CONFIRMATION in this way! Humbled by the nom ???? — kerry washington (@kerrywashington) December 12, 2016

Ruth Negga: "I am profoundly grateful for this recognition ... I can't thank the HFPA enough for their support, this is such an honor. I am humbled to be in the company of all of these extraordinary, talented, and powerful women. It has been such a gift to share Mildred and Richard Loving's important story with the world. I share this honor with my partner in the film, Joel Edgerton, our incredible director Jeff Nichols and everyone involved in bringing 'Loving' to life."

WOW. Once again, you have made my dreams come true, @goldenglobes. I and everyone at #CrazyExGirlfriend are BEYOND grateful!!! — Rachel Bloom (@Racheldoesstuff) December 12, 2016

Rami Malek: "I'm incredibly grateful to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for recognizing me in this group of distinguished and accomplished actors. I'm thrilled to be sharing this moment with my co-star and fellow nominee Christian Slater. I am so thankful for the brilliant mind of Sam Esmail, USA Network, Universal Cable Productions, and the exceptionally gifted cast, crew, and writers of 'Mr. Robot.'"

Lin-Manuel Miranda: "Gracias. Merci. Grazie. Danke sehr. Mahalo. Thank you Hollywood Foreign Press Association for this tremendous honor. Congratulations to my fellow nominees. Over two years ago, I was lucky enough to have been given my dream job, writing songs for a Disney animated film, alongside the amazing Opetaia Foa'i & Mark Mancina. Today, for 'Moana' to be recognized for what we created is truly beyond comprehension. 'How Far I'll Go' not only embodies the spirit of our heroine but the central lesson from the film — dream big, listen to your gut, don't give up, never forget where you came from, and one day you might just save the world."

And they say Monday mornings are hard!! Not today!!!! Ahhh! ?? https://t.co/rDHMZiJitx — Chrissy Metz (@ChrissyMetz) December 12, 2016

Nicole Kidman: "This nomination is even more emotional and I'm more grateful than ever before. Thank you to the Hollywood Foreign Press!"

Natalie Portman: "I'm so honored to be recognized by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. I had such a beautiful experience making this film with the most wonderful cast and crew, and particularly with our great director, Pablo Larrain, that it feels like icing on the cake to be nominated."

Octavia Spencer: "I am deeply humbled to be nominated for a Golden Globe for playing this particular role. The women of 'Hidden Figures' story are hidden no more. Thank you HFPA."

CALL ME A GOLDEN GLOBE NOMINEE!!! OH MY GOD. I'm in tears. And on a plane. About to take off. AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!#EdgeOf17 — Hailee Steinfeld (@HaileeSteinfeld) December 12, 2016

Hailee Steinfeld: "I am overcome with excitement and joy to be nominated for 'The Edge of Seventeen.' We set out to make a film that would resonate with men and women of all ages because the message of self-acceptance and embracing your truth is universal. Contrary to the reality that I face as a young actress on a daily basis, 'Eo17' isn't a film about a teenage girl wrestling with her identity and self-worth because of the influence of social media defining her popularity. Instead, it's an anthem for self-acceptance and I'm so grateful to Jim Brooks and Kelly Fremon-Craig for granting me the opportunity to play such a complex and unlikely heroine."

Matt Damon: "Congratulations to our incredible crew and a deep thank you to Kenny Lonergan and the entire cast who poured their hearts and souls into this, and thank you as well to the HFPA for championing a little movie like ours."

Jessica Chastain: "I'm thrilled to be acknowledged in this talented peer group with such amazing actresses. I would not be here without the brilliant direction of John Madden. Thank you to EuropaCorp for making such a daring film, particularly now, and thank you to the HFPA for this honor."