The 9 need-to-know takeaways from your 2017 Golden Globe nominees
The 9 need-to-know takeaways from your 2017 Golden Globe nominees
The 2017 Golden Globe nominations were announced Monday morning , and Hollywood's biggest party (the Oscars are too formal, you know it's true) is shaping up to honor quite the eclectic mix of television and film. With last year's sweep of the little-known and previous wins for newbie darlings like and , the Globes are always full of surprises. We're here to prepare you for what to expect come January 8. SEE ALSO: Grammys 2017: 5 things to know about this year's nominees  1. Issa Reigns Issa Rae received her first nomination for Best Actress In a Television Series - Comedy in a category dominated exclusively by HBO and the CW, by Golden Globe favorites (like Sarah Jessica Parker, nominated for , but who even got nominated when she was in ). Her character on , also named Issa, is flawed and forthright, and that's a testament to Rae's triple role as writer, producer and actor. The Globes tend to honor a promising newbie in this category (see: Rachel Bloom for last year) so don't be surprised if Rae walks away with the gold. 2. We all live in  Damien Chazelle's festival darling isn't yet in wide release, but to say it's almost universally beloved would not be a stretch. Leading all the films nominated with seven nods, expect Jan. 8 to be another day of sun for this fabulous film. 3. gets some love Image:  bleecker street Viggo Mortensen earned an acting nomination for his performance as Ben Cash, a father who raises his children away from society until their mother's sudden death. It's Mortensen's first Golden Globe nomination since 2012, and it's exciting for fans of his work (and this movie) that the well-reviewed summer release hasn't been forgotten. It's also a much-needed step for him buzz-wise if he wants to be part of the Oscar conversation. 4. 's Sunny Pawar will steal your heart have mercy pic.twitter.com/pxOqLfx20K — Proma (@promawhatup) December 5, 2016 Whether or not you've seen by Jan. 8 (and we strongly recommend you do), the pint-sized Pawar is about to become your favorite living human . Look for this kid to be the charming standout on the Oscar circuit (a la Jacob Tremblay last year). 5. Go see  Image:  stx entertainment Hailee Steinfeld's nomination for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy is entirely justified by the veracity of her performance as unraveling Nadine. At that age, everything is life-or-death, from the problems that plague all teens to the B.S. unique to Nadine's existence—and Steinfeld commits to it with unparalleled humor and heart. 6. No one can resist  Mandy Moore and Milo Ventimiglia have been making us cry on a weekly basis. Image:  nbc The network newbie got three nominations, including dueling acting nods for Mandy Moore and Chrissy Metz and one for Best Television Series – Drama. This fall's breakout hit ratings-wise is clearly a new fave of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association as well. 7. Silence on ? Image:  paramount pictures Martin Scorsese's latest (and a supposed Oscar front-runner) hasn't been screened widely yet, which likely explains its absence from the Globes. Look for that to change come Oscar time — otherwise, that's a big snub. 8. Remember ? The Golden Globes sure do! The Globes love some Meryl Streep (she'll be the recipient of this year's Cecil B. DeMill Award), so the love for spread throughout the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. In addition to nominations for Streep and Hugh Grant, perhaps the most pleasant surprise is for Simon Helberg in his stellar supporting role as Cosme McMoon. 9. About those nominations... Image:  summit entertainment Mel Gibson for Best Director? No thanks (though the nod shows that the HFPA, for their part, has moved on from his personal problems). But director issues or not, Andrew Garfield's performance in the film is excellent. With a better-than-expected showing for the film at the Globes, it'll be interesting to see if Garfield throws his weight behind getting an Oscar nod for this, or if he pushes for one for his leading role in . As far as problems go, there are worse ones to have.

The 2017 Golden Globe nominations were announced Monday morning, and Hollywood's biggest party (the Oscars are too formal, you know it's true) is shaping up to honor quite the eclectic mix of television and film.

With last year's sweep of the little-known Mozart in the Jungle and previous wins for newbie darlings like Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Jane the Virgin and Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, the Globes are always full of surprises.

We're here to prepare you for what to expect come January 8.



1. Issa Reigns

Issa Rae received her first nomination for Best Actress In a Television Series - Comedy in a category dominated exclusively by HBO and the CW, by Golden Globe favorites (like Sarah Jessica Parker, nominated for Divorce, but who even got nominated when she was in The Family Stone). Her character on Insecure, also named Issa, is flawed and forthright, and that's a testament to Rae's triple role as writer, producer and actor.



The Globes tend to honor a promising newbie in this category (see: Rachel Bloom for Crazy Ex-Girlfriend last year) so don't be surprised if Rae walks away with the gold.

2. We all live in La La Land

Damien Chazelle's festival darling isn't yet in wide release, but to say it's almost universally beloved would not be a stretch. Leading all the films nominated with seven nods, expect Jan. 8 to be another day of sun for this fabulous film.

3. Captain Fantastic gets some love

Image: bleecker street

Viggo Mortensen earned an acting nomination for his performance as Ben Cash, a father who raises his children away from society until their mother's sudden death. It's Mortensen's first Golden Globe nomination since 2012, and it's exciting for fans of his work (and this movie) that the well-reviewed summer release hasn't been forgotten. It's also a much-needed step for him buzz-wise if he wants to be part of the Oscar conversation.

4. Lion's Sunny Pawar will steal your heart

Whether or not you've seen Lion by Jan. 8 (and we strongly recommend you do), the pint-sized Pawar is about to become your favorite living human. Look for this kid to be the charming standout on the Oscar circuit (a la Jacob Tremblay last year).

5. Go see The Edge of Seventeen

Image: stx entertainment

Hailee Steinfeld's nomination for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy is entirely justified by the veracity of her performance as unraveling Nadine. At that age, everything is life-or-death, from the problems that plague all teens to the B.S. unique to Nadine's existence—and Steinfeld commits to it with unparalleled humor and heart.

6. No one can resist This Is Us

Mandy Moore and Milo Ventimiglia have been making us cry on a weekly basis. Image: nbc

The network newbie got three nominations, including dueling acting nods for Mandy Moore and Chrissy Metz and one for Best Television Series – Drama. This fall's breakout hit ratings-wise is clearly a new fave of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association as well.

7. Silence on Silence?

Image: paramount pictures

Martin Scorsese's latest (and a supposed Oscar front-runner) hasn't been screened widely yet, which likely explains its absence from the Globes. Look for that to change come Oscar time — otherwise, that's a big snub.

8. Remember Florence Foster Jenkins?

The Golden Globes sure do! The Globes love some Meryl Streep (she'll be the recipient of this year's Cecil B. DeMill Award), so the love for FFJ spread throughout the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. In addition to nominations for Streep and Hugh Grant, perhaps the most pleasant surprise is for Simon Helberg in his stellar supporting role as Cosme McMoon.

9. About those Hacksaw Ridge nominations...

Image: summit entertainment

Mel Gibson for Best Director? No thanks (though the nod shows that the HFPA, for their part, has moved on from his personal problems). But director issues or not, Andrew Garfield's performance in the film is excellent.

With a better-than-expected showing for the film at the Globes, it'll be interesting to see if Garfield throws his weight behind getting an Oscar nod for this, or if he pushes for one for his leading role in Silence. As far as problems go, there are worse ones to have.