Chipotle Makes Founder Steve Ells Its Sole CEO As Monty Moran Steps Down
Chipotle Makes Founder Steve Ells Its Sole CEO As Monty Moran Steps Down
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Steve Ells, Chipotle's founder and newly-crowned sole CEO. (Photograph: Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg) Last week, Chipotle founder Steve Ells hinted that the beleaguered burrito chain would announce management changes "shortly." On Monday, he made good on his promise: he and the company's board of directors announced that they are eliminating the dual CEO structure that has headed Chipotle for nearly eight years. Chipotle said Monday that it is making founder Steve Ells its sole CEO. Monty Moran, with whom Ells has split CEO duties since 2009, has stepped down from the co-chief executive post and from his board seat effective immediately. " Moran has been co-CEO since January 1, 2009; prior to his elevation as co-chief of Chipotle, he served as the company's president and chief operating officer. In an indirect nod to just how much the burrito chain has struggled to regain its reputation in the wake of the food safety food scandal that has rocked its sales, the announcement of Moran's retirement spent the bulk of its words talking about Ells' plans for the future. "[O] Among the changes that could be coming down the pipeline, Chipotle said that Ells has indicated he would like to better tie employee incentives to customer experience. Neither Ells nor the company said how this might work, but it does provide a logical extension to comments Ells made during a conference last week , in which he said operations slowed throughput Chipotle also said that it will be changing its mission statement. The company previously pledged to "c Prior to Monday's announcement, Chipotle was one of the few remaining examples of a large company with two CEOs. In November, Whole Foods said that it is eliminating its co-CEO structure by handing the reins to company co-founder John Mackey. Walter Robb, who has served as Mackey's co-chief executive since 2010, will step down on December 31. Following the news of the CEO change-up, shares of Chipotle opened high and continued to trade in positive territory. The stock is currently up 2.8%. Year-to-date, shares are down 20%.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Amazon's Growing Power In The U.S. Economy

Last week, Chipotle founder Steve Ells hinted that the beleaguered burrito chain would announce management changes "shortly." On Monday, he made good on his promise: he and the company's board of directors announced that they are eliminating the dual CEO structure that has headed Chipotle for nearly eight years.

Chipotle said Monday that it is making founder Steve Ells its sole CEO. Monty Moran, with whom Ells has split CEO duties since 2009, has stepped down from the co-chief executive post and from his board seat effective immediately.

"Given the ongoing challenges facing the company, the board felt strongly that it was best for Steve to resume leadership of the company going forward. This will ensure that his high standards for the guest experience and his unyielding commitment to the company’s mission are top priorities," Neil Flanzraich, lead director of Chipotle’s board, said in a statement Monday morning.

Moran has been co-CEO since January 1, 2009; prior to his elevation as co-chief of Chipotle, he served as the company's president and chief operating officer.

In an indirect nod to just how much the burrito chain has struggled to regain its reputation in the wake of the food safety food scandal that has rocked its sales, the announcement of Moran's retirement spent the bulk of its words talking about Ells' plans for the future.

"[O]perations have become over-complicated," Ells said. "I’m very much looking forward to relentlessly focusing on ensuring an excellent guest experience, removing unnecessary complexity from our operations, championing innovation, and pursuing our mission of making better food accessible to more people.”

Among the changes that could be coming down the pipeline, Chipotle said that Ells has indicated he would like to better tie employee incentives to customer experience. Neither Ells nor the company said how this might work, but it does provide a logical extension to comments Ells made during a conference last week, in which he said that Chipotle has lost focus on customer service and that a barrage of new food-safety operations have slowed throughput (the rate of customers it can serve in a given amount of time).

Chipotle also said that it will be changing its mission statement. The company previously pledged to "change the way people think about and eat fast food." The new mission statement is slightly longer: "Ensure that better food, prepared from whole, unprocessed ingredients is accessible to everyone.”

“I’d also like to thank Monty for his extraordinary contributions to Chipotle over the years," Ells added. "Monty inspired us with his vision for an enlightened people culture, and I wish him the best as he retires from the company.”

Prior to Monday's announcement, Chipotle was one of the few remaining examples of a large company with two CEOs. In November, Whole Foods said that it is eliminating its co-CEO structure by handing the reins to company co-founder John Mackey. Walter Robb, who has served as Mackey's co-chief executive since 2010, will step down on December 31. Oracle (where the chief executive duties are split by Safra Catz and Matt Hurd) and private equity giant KKR (where founders Henry Kravis and George Roberts have shared the CEO job since the company's founding in 1976) remain two rare examples of a dual-CEO structure.

Following the news of the CEO change-up, shares of Chipotle opened high and continued to trade in positive territory. The stock is currently up 2.8%. Year-to-date, shares are down 20%.