Donald Trump picks veteran general to 'stop illegal immigration, secure US border'



Donald Trump picks veteran general to 'stop illegal immigration, secure US border'

Updated

President-elect Donald Trump has picked a 45-year military veteran as his choice to lead the United States Department of Homeland Security.

Key points: Donald Trump picks Retired General John Kelly to lead Homeland Security

Kelly, a 45-year veteran, to spearhead an 'urgent mission to stop illegal immigration'

Transition team yet to announce secretary of state

Mr Trump's transition team said Marine Corps retired General John Kelly would "spearhead the urgent mission of stopping illegal immigration and securing our borders".

His duties would also include streamlining the Transportation Security Administration and improving ties between US intelligence and law enforcement agencies, according to the transition team.

Mr Trump's transition team is yet to announce who the incoming president will select for secretary of state.

He has been considering former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, a one-time vocal Trump critic, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who leads the Foreign Relations Committee, and Rex Tillerson, an oil industry executive.

In a television interview, Mr Trump pointed to Mr Tillerson's deep relations with Moscow as a selling-point.

As ExxonMobil's head, he maintained close ties with Russia and was awarded by Russian President Vladmir Putin with the Order of Friendship in 2013, an honour for a foreign citizen.

"These are all very different types of people," Mr Trump said.

"But when you ask me about Rex, I mean, he's a world-class player. There's no question about it."

Mr Tillerson had still not been formally offered the job, according to a person with knowledge of the process who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Democrats have warned that plucking Mr Tillerson for the secretary of state role would put the leader of the world's largest oil company in a pivotal role on issues like climate change and the future of the Keystone XL pipeline.

They also questioned whether he would apply diplomatic pressure on Russia's conflict with Ukraine.

Reuters/AP

Topics: us-elections, government-and-politics, united-states, mexico

First posted