Cyclone Vardah Strikes Chennai, Kills 2 + 5 Other Major Stories From Today
Cyclone Vardah Strikes Chennai, Kills 2 + 5 Other Major Stories From Today
Cyclone Vardah Strikes Chennai, Kills 2 + 5 Other Major Stories From Today 4 hours after making landfall in Chennai, cyclone Vardah has made its presence felt. Despite aggressive attempts of the NDRF, civic administration and even the Indian navy to ensure the cyclone doesn't leave the city in havoc, there is still some damage. Two people have been reported dead. In a move that will make it easier for single women to safely and legally terminate unwanted pregnancies, the health ministry has recommended recognising "failure of contraceptive" and "unplanned pregnancy" as lawful reasons for abortion among all women, married or otherwise. At present, the law recognises these two reasons for abortion only in case of "married" women. The relief is part of a series of recommendations made by the health ministry for amendment of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act. Read more here While the FIR states that the incident occurred on Saturday morning, officials have assured that a new sword is almost ready for installation. History enthusiasts are blaming the lack of security at the location for this debacle. In fact, most of the artefacts atop forts remain completely exposed and ignored. Also, Maharashtra has no paperwork documenting the number and location of artefacts, which means the lax security and frequency of thefts often go unreported. Read more here A Sikh gala in the US has raised $250,000 to fund scholarship for financially strapped students in Punjab and neighbouring states. The funds raised at the gala organised by Sikh Human Development Fund would help in providing scholarship to 700 bright students who could not pursue studies due to lack of money. Read more here India, with the highest malaria burden outside Africa, will need an investment of $18 billion to achieve its 2030 deadline to eliminate the disease, says a latest estimate by the health ministry and malaria advocacy groups. Read more here

4 hours after making landfall in Chennai, cyclone Vardah has made its presence felt. Despite aggressive attempts of the NDRF, civic administration and even the Indian navy to ensure the cyclone doesn't leave the city in havoc, there is still some damage. Two people have been reported dead.

1. Single Women Will Soon Be Able To Terminate Pregnancy As Govt Plans Abortion Rights For Them

TOI/Representational Image

In a move that will make it easier for single women to safely and legally terminate unwanted pregnancies, the health ministry has recommended recognising "failure of contraceptive" and "unplanned pregnancy" as lawful reasons for abortion among all women, married or otherwise. At present, the law recognises these two reasons for abortion only in case of "married" women. The relief is part of a series of recommendations made by the health ministry for amendment of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act.

Read more here

2. Part Of Shivaji's 40-Inch Sword 'Goes Missing' From His Statue At Raigad Fort

Ankur P/flickr.com

While the FIR states that the incident occurred on Saturday morning, officials have assured that a new sword is almost ready for installation. History enthusiasts are blaming the lack of security at the location for this debacle. In fact, most of the artefacts atop forts remain completely exposed and ignored. Also, Maharashtra has no paperwork documenting the number and location of artefacts, which means the lax security and frequency of thefts often go unreported.

Read more here

3. Sikh Gala Raises $250,000 To Help 700 Poor Students To Pursue Higher Studies

Sikhs India/Representational Image

A Sikh gala in the US has raised $250,000 to fund scholarship for financially strapped students in Punjab and neighbouring states. The funds raised at the gala organised by Sikh Human Development Fund would help in providing scholarship to 700 bright students who could not pursue studies due to lack of money.

Read more here

4. After All These Years Of Failure India Needs $18 Billion To Win Battle Against Malaria By 2030

Reuters

India, with the highest malaria burden outside Africa, will need an investment of $18 billion to achieve its 2030 deadline to eliminate the disease, says a latest estimate by the health ministry and malaria advocacy groups.

Read more here

5. This Juhu Street Becomes An Open-Air Sports Arena And Art Gallery Every Sunday

Facebook

"We come here every Sunday to play pranks. We've scared people with a rubber snake and by pretending to be a ghost," says 19year-old Sagar Karkera, who runs the channel along with two friends. "We love the concept of Equal Streets." Read more here