'Flip or Flop' stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa separate
'Flip or Flop' stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa separate
Divorce 'Flip or Flop' stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa separate By    HGTV stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa have announced their separation six months after police were called to their home over what the couple called an "unfortunate misunderstanding." The "Flip or Flop" stars told FOX411 the incident prompted them to seek counseling, and they've decided to separate while evaluating the future of their marriage. The added that they plan to continue their professional life together. "Like many couples, we have had challenges in our marriage," they said. "During this process, we are committed to our kids and being the best parents we can be. We will continue to work through this process civilly and cooperatively, and plan to continue our professional life together." HGTV told FOX411 they are "currently airing episodes of Flip or Flop and the series will continue production as scheduled." According to TMZ , the El Moussas' marriage began to crumble after an incident in May when police responded to "a call of a possibly suicidal male with a gun" at the couple's home. TMZ claims witnesses saw Tarek take a gun from his safe and leave his home. Officials caught up with the reality star who told authorities he was not intending to hurt himself but just wanted to "blow off some steam." Police reportedly seized five guns from the El Moussa residence at the time. The couple said in their statement Monday that police were called out of "an abundance of caution." They say there was no violence and no charges were filed. The El Moussas married in 2009 and have two children.  Daniel Radcliffe 'had no issue' filming graphic sex scene says director   Hallmark is keeping it family-friendly... and it's working   ‘Walking Dead’ ratings are lower than ever: Is Neegan to blame?   Gun control flick 'Miss Sloane' flops at the box office but snags Golden Globe nod

HGTV stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa have announced their separation six months after police were called to their home over what the couple called an "unfortunate misunderstanding."

The "Flip or Flop" stars told FOX411 the incident prompted them to seek counseling, and they've decided to separate while evaluating the future of their marriage. The added that they plan to continue their professional life together.

"Like many couples, we have had challenges in our marriage," they said. "During this process, we are committed to our kids and being the best parents we can be. We will continue to work through this process civilly and cooperatively, and plan to continue our professional life together."

HGTV told FOX411 they are "currently airing episodes of Flip or Flop and the series will continue production as scheduled."

According to TMZ, the El Moussas' marriage began to crumble after an incident in May when police responded to "a call of a possibly suicidal male with a gun" at the couple's home.

TMZ claims witnesses saw Tarek take a gun from his safe and leave his home. Officials caught up with the reality star who told authorities he was not intending to hurt himself but just wanted to "blow off some steam." Police reportedly seized five guns from the El Moussa residence at the time.

The couple said in their statement Monday that police were called out of "an abundance of caution." They say there was no violence and no charges were filed.

The El Moussas married in 2009 and have two children.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.