SRK Meets MNS Chief Raj Thackeray, Aamir Khan Sheds His Serious Image & More From Ent
SRK Meets MNS Chief Raj Thackeray, Aamir Khan Sheds His Serious Image & More From Ent
SRK Meets MNS Chief Raj Thackeray, Aamir Khan Sheds His Serious Image & More From Ent 1. In Last Night’s Episode Of Koffee With Karan, Salman, Arbaaz & Sohail Khan Proved That Together They Are Like A House On Fire We know Salman Khan is super-entertaining but with his brothers Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan in tow, the trio was like a house on fire. From revealing dark and amusing secrets about each other to sharing cute anecdotes of their family, the last night episode of Koffee With Karan was a mix of fun, entertainment, niceness, and everything in between. 2. It's Confirmed! Manu Punjabi Will Join Priyanka Jagga In Bigg Boss 10's Secret Room This Week According to the buzz that has been doing the rounds, Manu Punjabi who had to leave the house owing to his mother’s sudden demise, is all set to join Jagga in the secret room! He is said to be joining the show on Wednesday. 3. On His 94th Birthday, Dilip Kumar Shares An Adorable Pic Of Cutting A Cake With Saira Banu Veteran actor Dilip Kumar turned 94 birthday on December 11. Unfortunately, he was hospitalized in Lilavati Hospital due to high temperature and a swollen leg on 7th.In a series of tweets, the actor shared a picture of himself and Saira cutting a cake while sitting on a hospital bed. 4. Aamir Khan Sheds His Serious Persona, Shows His Naughty Side In A Promo Of Koffee With Karan! From what we can see in the promo, Karan Johar managed to make Aamir drop his serious persona and the teaser did give everyone a pleasant surprise.  And it wasn’t just us even his onscreen daughters  Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra were taken aback. So much so, that they can be heard saying “Which is this side we are seeing today,” and “Yeh sunne se pehle ham mar kyun nahi gaye?” 5. SRK Meets MNS Chief Raj Thackeray, Assures Him That He Won't Work With Pakistani Actors In Future SRK met supremo Raj Thackrey at his residence yesterday. In an hour-long discussion, SRK promised Thackeray that he and his team have no intention of bringing Mahira to India for Raees promotions. In fact, he even said that he will not be working with any Pakistani actors in the future.

1. In Last Night’s Episode Of Koffee With Karan, Salman, Arbaaz & Sohail Khan Proved That Together They Are Like A House On Fire

Star World

We know Salman Khan is super-entertaining but with his brothers Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan in tow, the trio was like a house on fire. From revealing dark and amusing secrets about each other to sharing cute anecdotes of their family, the last night episode of Koffee With Karan was a mix of fun, entertainment, niceness, and everything in between.

2. It's Confirmed! Manu Punjabi Will Join Priyanka Jagga In Bigg Boss 10's Secret Room This Week

According to the buzz that has been doing the rounds, Manu Punjabi who had to leave the house owing to his mother’s sudden demise, is all set to join Jagga in the secret room! He is said to be joining the show on Wednesday.

3. On His 94th Birthday, Dilip Kumar Shares An Adorable Pic Of Cutting A Cake With Saira Banu

Veteran actor Dilip Kumar turned 94 birthday on December 11. Unfortunately, he was hospitalized in Lilavati Hospital due to high temperature and a swollen leg on 7th.In a series of tweets, the actor shared a picture of himself and Saira cutting a cake while sitting on a hospital bed.

4. Aamir Khan Sheds His Serious Persona, Shows His Naughty Side In A Promo Of Koffee With Karan!

From what we can see in the promo, Karan Johar managed to make Aamir drop his serious persona and the teaser did give everyone a pleasant surprise. And it wasn’t just us even his onscreen daughters Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra were taken aback. So much so, that they can be heard saying “Which is this side we are seeing today,” and “Yeh sunne se pehle ham mar kyun nahi gaye?”

5. SRK Meets MNS Chief Raj Thackeray, Assures Him That He Won't Work With Pakistani Actors In Future

SRK met supremo Raj Thackrey at his residence yesterday. In an hour-long discussion, SRK promised Thackeray that he and his team have no intention of bringing Mahira to India for Raees promotions. In fact, he even said that he will not be working with any Pakistani actors in the future.