Syrian war: Fears for civilian lives on both sides as Syrian army takes control of Aleppo



Syrian war: Fears for civilian lives on both sides as Syrian army takes control of Aleppo

Updated

As the Syrian army closes in on taking total control of Aleppo, there are fears for civilians on both sides of the line.

Key points: Ceasefire talks between US and Russia over battle for Aleppo break down

Reports of some civilians fleeing into rebel-held areas from fear of punishment from government forces

UN concerned about reports that hundreds of men have gone missing

Ceasefire talks between the United States and Russia over the battle for Aleppo have broken down, with the US saying Russia wants unacceptable changes to a proposed plan for humanitarian aid to go in and for rebels to get safe passage out of the city.

Russia backs the Syrian army, which says it is close to taking control of the city after a dramatic collapse in rebel positions.

"It's doomsday in Aleppo," said Abu Amer Iqab, a former government employee in the heart of the rebel enclave.

And while Russia says 100,000 people have crossed into government-held territory, many are concerned about what civilians on both sides will face.

Wissam Zarqa, a teacher and activist still in the rebel-held suburbs, called the situation "catastrophic" via a social media networking app.

He said that while some people were crossing into government-held territory, others were fleeing deeper into the remaining rebel-held pocket.

"Many of them managed to send their families — women, children — to the regime areas," he said.

"Before, they never thought of doing that.

"Now it's like an act of surrender, hoping they would be safe — here they would be endangered for sure."

Fear of punishment from pro-government forces

After living for more than four years under rebel control, many people fear that they will be punished when they come into contact with pro-Government forces.

It is a genuine fear, given the Syrian Government's record of torturing its opponents to death on such a scale that UN investigators have accused it of a crime against humanity.

Mr Zarqa said his friends had given mixed reports of what had happened to those who had left.

"Most of them talked to their families. They are OK now. They reached their relatives there," he said.

"I am talking about women and children — as for men, no-one is safe when you go into there."

Some who have crossed into government-held areas told UN workers that they saw government forces referring to lists and detaining displaced people.

The UN human rights agency said it was concerned about reports that hundreds of men had gone missing.

"One of my friends contacted me and said he's OK, he's in west Aleppo," Mr Zarqa said.

"I don't know how long he would stay like this because it happened to many people I know, they went, settled down, then they [officials] came and took them."

Rebels preventing people from leaving

The UN has also cited evidence the rebels are preventing people from leaving the areas under their control.

But the Government's march has been irresistible.

In footage broadcast by Russian state media, thousands of people could be seen streaming into government-held areas as the army advanced and the rebels retreated.

"Let them [the rebels] go to hell, those animals," one woman said.

"They didn't even give the children anything to eat. I've said four times that I wanted to flee, but they were insisting that I could die."

"Thank God we have escaped, we were starving," another woman said.

The Syrian army will soon claim complete control over the broken city.

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, terrorism, syrian-arab-republic

First posted