LeBron James Working to Help Produce HBO Documentary on Muhammad Ali's Life
LeBron James Working to Help Produce HBO Documentary on Muhammad Ali's Life
A new documentary series on Muhammad Ali coming from @HBOboxing and @KingJames  #boxing  pic.twitter.com/GRgbV3mjVD The late Muhammad Ali is one of the most influential athletes in the history of sports and in the months following the boxing legend's death, Cleveland Cavaliers superstar LeBron James has done everything he can to honor the Greatest of All Time. As Bleacher Report's Jonathan relayed Monday, James is working on quite the project. James recently helped donate $2.5 million to the National Museum of African American History and Culture at the Smithsonian for a Muhammad Ali exhibit. Now, his production company has begun work on an HBO documentary that will reflect on the boxing great's life. Kary , president of HBO miniseries and , spoke about the documentary, per Variety's Debra : Muhammad Ali is indisputably one of the most iconic and distinctive figures in the history of world sports. His impact resonates far beyond the boxing ring and is woven deep into the cultural and social tapestry of the second half of the 20th century. From the moment LeBron James told us of his deep visceral connection to Ali’s life and legacy, we were committed to helping him realize this film, and our enthusiasm has only grown as Antoine has developed his compelling cinematic vision for telling one man’s incredible journey. There aren't many athletes who can transcend sports, but Ali was one of the few who could. James has always been one to appreciate the past and one to use his fame and fortune to make a difference. Now, he has the opportunity to pay tribute to the GOAT—something he is more than thrilled to do. [ Jonathan ]

The late Muhammad Ali is one of the most influential athletes in the history of sports and in the months following the boxing legend's death, Cleveland Cavaliers superstar LeBron James has done everything he can to honor the Greatest of All Time.

As Bleacher Report's Jonathan Snowden relayed Monday, James is working on quite the project.

James recently helped donate $2.5 million to the National Museum of African American History and Culture at the Smithsonian for a Muhammad Ali exhibit. Now, his production company has begun work on an HBO documentary that will reflect on the boxing great's life.

Kary Antholis, president of HBO miniseries and Cinemax, spoke about the documentary, per Variety's Debra Birnbaum:

Muhammad Ali is indisputably one of the most iconic and distinctive figures in the history of world sports. His impact resonates far beyond the boxing ring and is woven deep into the cultural and social tapestry of the second half of the 20th century. From the moment LeBron James told us of his deep visceral connection to Ali’s life and legacy, we were committed to helping him realize this film, and our enthusiasm has only grown as Antoine Fuqua has developed his compelling cinematic vision for telling one man’s incredible journey.

There aren't many athletes who can transcend sports, but Ali was one of the few who could.

James has always been one to appreciate the past and one to use his fame and fortune to make a difference. Now, he has the opportunity to pay tribute to the GOAT—something he is more than thrilled to do.

[Jonathan Snowden]