Icy weather possible early Saturday in Washington

Late Friday night into Saturday, D.C. may have its first disruptive winter weather event of the season. The stage will be set for wintry precipitation when Arctic air pours into the region starting Wednesday night. Between Thursday morning and Saturday morning, temperatures are unlikely to get out of the 20s.   The ground will be frozen solid when a storm system developing to the west potentially first spreads precipitation into the region very early Saturday. Assuming precipitation materializes, the first half of Saturday could be an icy mess. This looks like one of those cases where we start off with a period of snow and sleet and then transition to freezing rain and finally rain. There are still lots of questions concerning how much precipitation falls Saturday as some models forecast the initial surge to be to our north, leaving us in only light precipitation, while others bring in enough precipitation to cause problems. In a situation in which Arctic air is being displaced by milder air from the southwest, how long the cold air hangs around at the surface is always troubling and difficult to predict. This morning’s GFS model (below) brings precipitation into the area before dawn (between 4 and 7 a.m.) Saturday and holds in the low-level cold air through early afternoon while snow transitions to ice. The European model (not shown) is somewhat quicker to scour out the low-level cold air. Still, it offers a messy early Saturday morning period with significant icing before a changeover to rain. The Canadian model forecasts much of the precipitation to pass north of Washington, with little impact. Any of the above scenarios is plausible. This does not look like one of those cases in which the cold air refuses to give way because the surface high-pressure center supplying the cold is forecast to slip off the coast. By Saturday night, if not sooner, temperatures should rise to above freezing. By Sunday, temperatures could even jump up into the 50s ahead of the next front that will usher in another cold air mass, albeit not nearly as cold as the one preceding it. If the models are right, our temperatures could experience a 30-degree or more increase in the 24 hours between Saturday morning and Sunday morning. Why am I so confident that Saturday’s precipitation is likely to change to rain as the day wears on? The average of simulations from the GFS model and its plot of the high- and low-pressure centers provide several strong clues. All of the simulations track the low, bringing this precipitation well to our west while also tracking our cold high-pressure system well off the coast by Saturday afternoon. All the tight packing of the lines (isobars) between the low and high suggest strong southerly winds will be pushing warm air northward toward us. The fact that the high-pressure center is off the coast also implies that there will be a component of the wind off the Atlantic Ocean, which is why the eastern suburbs and city will warm faster than our usually colder western and northern suburbs. We rarely see a major snow or even ice event in the city with such a pressure pattern. The models suggest a lull between the initial round of precipitation expected Saturday and the cold front bringing a band of plain rain showers Sunday. So what’s the bottom line? Precipitation is likely to develop late Friday night or early Saturday morning. Roads could be hazardous early Saturday if the colder, icier model solutions are correct. Stay tuned over the next several days as we’ll be providing updates.

Frigid air 15-30 degrees below normal is spilling into the Lower 48. Capital Weather Gang's Jason Samenow has your forecast and possible snow predictions. (Ashleigh Joplin/The Washington Post)

Late Friday night into Saturday, D.C. may have its first disruptive winter weather event of the season.

The stage will be set for wintry precipitation when Arctic air pours into the region starting Wednesday night. Between Thursday morning and Saturday morning, temperatures are unlikely to get out of the 20s.

[Frigid air spills into Lower 48 this week, in two brutal waves]

The ground will be frozen solid when a storm system developing to the west potentially first spreads precipitation into the region very early Saturday.

Assuming precipitation materializes, the first half of Saturday could be an icy mess. This looks like one of those cases where we start off with a period of snow and sleet and then transition to freezing rain and finally rain.

There are still lots of questions concerning how much precipitation falls Saturday as some models forecast the initial surge to be to our north, leaving us in only light precipitation, while others bring in enough precipitation to cause problems.

In a situation in which Arctic air is being displaced by milder air from the southwest, how long the cold air hangs around at the surface is always troubling and difficult to predict.

This morning’s GFS model (below) brings precipitation into the area before dawn (between 4 and 7 a.m.) Saturday and holds in the low-level cold air through early afternoon while snow transitions to ice.



GFS model precipitation simulation Saturday.

The European model (not shown) is somewhat quicker to scour out the low-level cold air. Still, it offers a messy early Saturday morning period with significant icing before a changeover to rain.

The Canadian model forecasts much of the precipitation to pass north of Washington, with little impact.



Canadian model precipitation simulation Saturday.

Any of the above scenarios is plausible.

This does not look like one of those cases in which the cold air refuses to give way because the surface high-pressure center supplying the cold is forecast to slip off the coast. By Saturday night, if not sooner, temperatures should rise to above freezing.

By Sunday, temperatures could even jump up into the 50s ahead of the next front that will usher in another cold air mass, albeit not nearly as cold as the one preceding it.

If the models are right, our temperatures could experience a 30-degree or more increase in the 24 hours between Saturday morning and Sunday morning.



GFS temperature simulation between Saturday and Sunday mornings.

Why am I so confident that Saturday’s precipitation is likely to change to rain as the day wears on?

The average of simulations from the GFS model and its plot of the high- and low-pressure centers provide several strong clues. All of the simulations track the low, bringing this precipitation well to our west while also tracking our cold high-pressure system well off the coast by Saturday afternoon.

All the tight packing of the lines (isobars) between the low and high suggest strong southerly winds will be pushing warm air northward toward us.

The fact that the high-pressure center is off the coast also implies that there will be a component of the wind off the Atlantic Ocean, which is why the eastern suburbs and city will warm faster than our usually colder western and northern suburbs. We rarely see a major snow or even ice event in the city with such a pressure pattern.

The models suggest a lull between the initial round of precipitation expected Saturday and the cold front bringing a band of plain rain showers Sunday.

So what’s the bottom line? Precipitation is likely to develop late Friday night or early Saturday morning. Roads could be hazardous early Saturday if the colder, icier model solutions are correct. Stay tuned over the next several days as we’ll be providing updates.