Taking statins for 6 months reduces risk of Alzheimer's by up to 15%
Could statins be the miracle cure for Alzheimer's?


Taking statins may ward off the development of Alzheimer's disease, a major study suggests.

People who consistently took the cholesterol-busting pills for at least two years saw their risk of developing Alzheimer's over the next five years plummet.

Women who had taken statins saw their risk fall by 15 per cent and Alzheimer's risk among men fell 12 per cent.

The findings, based on the health records of nearly 400,000 Americans over-65s tracked from 2006 until 2013, is the strongest evidence yet that statins may help stall the development of dementia.

Taking statins for at least two years reduced the risk of developing Alzheimer's by 15 per cent for women and 12 per cent for men, a study found

In the first two years the researchers, from the University of Southern California Los Angeles, tracked whether the participants took statins, and how consistently they took them.

For the next five years they tracked them for the development of Alzheimer's, the most common form of dementia.

Overall, 1.72 percent of women and 1.32 percent of men received an Alzheimer's diagnosis each year.

But those who took statins were less likely to develop the disease, and that risk fell further if they took their drugs more consistently.

An estimated 850,000 people in the UK suffer with dementia, of which 500,000 have Alzheimer's disease.

Despite years of research, scientists have yet to come up with any drug that can slow the underlying causes of the disease, or reverse it when it has struck.

Dr Julie Zissimopoulos, who led the study published in the JAMA Neurology medical journal, said we may already be sitting on an effective treatment.

'We may not need to wait for a cure to make a difference for patients currently at risk of the disease,' she said.

'Existing drugs, alone or in combination, may affect Alzheimer's risk.

'We looked to statins as a candidate because they are widely used and have resulted in the reduction of cholesterol.'

Statins are already taken by at least 6million people in Britain to reduce the risk of heart disease.

Previous research into statins and Alzheimer's showed 'a protective association' but experts were unsure as to how exactly they were linked

The drugs, which cost the NHS as little as £2 a month, work by reducing cholesterol in the blood.

Cholesterol is known to increase the risk of heart attacks and strokes by furring the major arteries.

Reducing this cholesterol in turn is thought to increase blood flow to the brain, helping fight off the death of brain cells.

Scientists suspect cholesterol may also play a role in the formation of amyloid plaques - the clumps of protein that interfere with memory - although this is not yet proven.

We may not need to wait for a cure to make a difference for patients currently at risk of the disease. Existing drugs, alone or in combination, may affect Alzheimer's risk. Dr Julie Zissimopoulos, who led the study published in the JAMA Neurology medical journal

The researchers found different types of statin had a different degree of effectiveness for different ethnic groups and genders.

Simvastatin - a common form of the drug - was associated with a lower risk of Alzheimer's for white, Hispanic and black women, as well as white and Hispanic men.

Atorvastatin was associated with reduced risk among white, black, and Hispanic women and Hispanic men.

Pravastatin and rosuvastatin were associated with reduced risk for white women.

But no significant difference in risk was seen for black men who took any form of statins.

The authors said that doctors should take this into account when prescribing the drugs to ward off heart disease.

They wrote: 'This suggests that certain patients, facing multiple, otherwise equal statin alternatives for hyperlipidemia treatment, may reduce Alzheimer's disease risk by using a particular statin.

SENSE OF SMELL IS THE TELL-TALE SIGN OF ALZHEIMER'S A fading sense of smell could be the first sign of Alzheimer's, a report last month warned. A study of 183 patients at Massachusetts General Hospital found those with early signs of the disease were far less likely to be able to identify or easily recall smells. It is the latest, and most conclusive, evidence to date that memory loss is not the first sign of Alzheimer's. In fact, lead investigator Dr Mark Albers said, a hampered sense of smell caused by the disease could be detected a decade before patients start becoming forgetful.

'The right statin type for the right person at the right time may provide a relatively inexpensive means to less the burden of Alzheimer's.'

Dr Doug Brown, director of research at the Alzheimer's Society said the researchers had helped 'clear up the confusion' surrounding statins and dementia because they used so much data.

'Their refreshing approach highlights that 'one size fits all' is not always a suitable approach to healthcare and this is likely to be the case when it comes to ways people can reduce their risk of dementia.

'However, their data does not provide direct evidence that statins can influence dementia risk – this question will need to be answered by clinical trials.'

He added: 'Currently there is not enough evidence that statin use can reduce your risk of dementia, but you should keep an eye on your cholesterol levels as keeping them in check will help to combat other conditions such as heart disease and stroke.'

Dr Rosa Sancho, of Alzheimer's Research UK, added: 'These types of studies identify important trends, but cannot allow researchers to conclude a causal relationship between statin use and Alzheimer's risk.'

Professor John Hardy, professor of neuroscience at University College London, added: 'This paper suggests, based on health records analysis, that in some groups there is a protection, but in others there are not.