Christmas strike misery as Post Office workers stage five-day walkout and rail services are hit by industrial action
Christmas strike misery as Post Office workers stage five-day walkout and rail services are hit by industrial action
ritain is facing Christmas strike chaos as militant unions have announced walk-outs at the Post Office and on one of the country's busiest railway lines. Cards and parcels could be delayed after staff at the UK’s 300 largest Post Offices - which handle 20 per cent of all post - announced a five-day strike which will last until Christmas Eve. It is the longest continuous strike in the 300-year history of the Post Office and comes as rail workers on one of the country’s busiest commuter lines begin a series of crippling strikes. he Southern Rail strike – part of the most disruptive industrial action on the line for decades - is expected to leave 300,000 commuters with no service and hit a further 200,000 hit by the impact on surrounding services. Senior Conservative MPs have condemned both actions. Sir Nicholas Soames, a former defence minister whose constituents are affected by the Southern Rail strike, called for the Government to consider anti-strike laws in the wake of the Post Office announcement. Sir Nicholas, the Tory MP for Mid-Sussex, said: "This seems to be part of an emerging pattern designed to put pressure on the Government but grotesquely inconveniencing people who use the services. “It's a rotten time to do it, people's lives are being ruined. Ministers are looking at every option, they are going to have to start taking action which previously everyone hoped we could avoid." abour sources said that party leader Jeremy Corbyn “won’t condemn” the action of the rail or postal union, which supported his leadership campaign. The Communication Workers Union said 3,000 staff at 300 high street branches will walk out from Monday to Friday next week in a dispute over pensions, job losses and branch closures. The last posting days for Christmas presents are Tuesday Dec 20 for second class post and Wednesday Dec 21 for first-class letters and parcels. A CWU source said the strike will cause “absolute chaos” and would have a “huge impact on postal services in the run-up to Christmas." he 300 branches handle “millions of parcels and letters every day” or an estimated 20 per cent of the letters and parcels posted by members of the public, according to the union. The strike will have an immediate impact on presents posted at the Crown branches or ordered over the internet. The Post Office said that the strike would not affect Royal Mail and the company had put “robust contingency plans in place”. spokesman said: “We want to reassure customers that if further strike action takes place next week at least 97 per cent of our 11,600 branches will not be involved. “It will be business as usual in almost all of our network, with more than 50,000 Post Office people on hand to support customers as they make their preparations for Christmas.” A Royal Mail spokesman said: "If any industrial action takes place in Post Office Ltd, Royal Mail will be operating as normal. We expect there to be no or little effect on the services we provide to our customers." Conservative party spokesman said: "Once again, Labour’s union paymasters are causing chaos and misery for the public, and calling the tune with the leader of the opposition. "Vindictive and unnecessary strike action is being met by silence from Labour, who are too divided to dare challenge the union bosses. They couldn't be more out of touch with ordinary, working people." The strikes on Southern will see train drivers stopping work today, tomorrow and on Friday. Conductors will walk out for two days next week. Rail chiefs warned of disruption over Christmas and into the New Year, as drivers also refuse to work overtime. hris Grayling, the transport secretary, said the union’s general-secretary Mick Whelan threatened him with “10 years of industrial action” with “virtually his first breath”, during the pair’s first meeting, earlier this year. In an open letter, Mr Grayling said that Aslef and the RMT, which represents conductors, had refused to take part in last-minute talks to avert this week’s strikes, which he said were “politically motivated” and had nothing to do with passenger safety. On Monday afternoon, Southern failed in a last-ditch bid to persuade the Court of Appeal to ban the strikes under EU law, with rail bosses urging passengers in the south of England not to attempt to travel today.

Britain is facing Christmas strike chaos as militant unions have announced walk-outs at the Post Office and on one of the country's busiest railway lines.

Cards and parcels could be delayed after staff at the UK’s 300 largest Post Offices - which handle 20 per cent of all post - announced a five-day strike which will last until Christmas Eve.

It is the longest continuous strike in the 300-year history of the Post Office and comes as rail workers on one of the country’s busiest commuter lines begin a series of crippling strikes.