Business confidence holds up even as conditions worsen: NAB survey



Business confidence holds up even as conditions worsen: NAB survey

Updated

Business confidence has held up, even as conditions worsened to their worst level in a year-and-a-half.

Key points: Business conditions worsen from +7 to +5

Sentiment rises from +4 to +5

NAB predicts two more interest rate cuts in 2017 as economy remains weak

NAB's widely watched monthly business survey showed a decline in conditions from +7 to +5 last month, which is around average levels but still the worst reading since April 2015.

The decline in conditions was typified by a easing in trading from +11 to +10 and a decline in profitability from +7 to +5.

However, sentiment amongst business leaders remained positive, rising from +4 to +5.

NAB's chief economist Alan Oster has warned that business leaders may have little basis for such optimism, though.

"We are becoming increasingly concerned about the underlying momentum in the economy as evidence mounts that the non-mining economy is losing steam," he noted in the report.

"The downward trend in business conditions and signs of weakness in the third quarter National Accounts, beyond one-off influences such as poor weather, lend further support to this view.

"For now though, we expect to see a fair degree of 'bounce-back' next quarter, before the economy resumes its relatively subdued growth track, characterised by muted domestic demand."

This economic weakness is reflected in poor readings for employment (which has been stuck at +1 for several months), forward orders (which fell from +9 in September to 0), stocks +2 and exports +1.

Mr Oster said the employment reading was a particular worry.

"Soft outcomes for employment conditions are a concern, and suggest that the labour market is only barely generating enough jobs to keep the unemployment rate steady," he wrote.

"On a more positive note, though, the survey suggests that ABS labour force data may be overstating the current weakness in employment growth."

Further economic weakness and rate cuts expected

Mr Oster said he is expecting some bounce back from the particularly poor gross domestic product (GDP) outcome in the September quarter, when Australia's economy shrank by 0.5 per cent, but not a strong or sustained rebound.

"Both the housing construction cycle and commodity exports are expected to peak fairly soon, compounding the growth challenge further out," he added.

"Meanwhile, the rally in commodity prices is expected to be short-lived, and is unlikely to translate into higher investment or wages at this point in the commodity cycle."

NAB's chief economist is still expecting two more interest rate cuts by the Reserve Bank next year as Australia's economy continues to struggle.

Across sectors, the lead up to Christmas appears to be relatively subdued for shopkeepers.

"The retail industry continues to be a major drag on conditions, despite signs of improved retail sales recently, and now has the equal worst business conditions, along with mining," Mr Oster observed.

"Transport has also performed poorly, although that might in part relate to the strength in oil prices following the recent OPEC agreement."

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, economic-trends, australia

First posted