Scary-Good Google Pixel XL: Keeps My iPhone 7 Plus At Bay
Scary-Good Google Pixel XL: Keeps My iPhone 7 Plus At Bay
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brooke Crothers       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Google Pixel. (Credit: Google) Google has done its homework. I owned the 2nd gen Moto X (at the time, a Google phone via Google's brief ownership of Motorola Mobility ) and am now using the Pixel XL. The Moto X is a great phone but the XL is scary good. And this is coming from a diehard Apple, MacBook, and iPhone user -- and satisfied owner of the iPhone 7 Plus. Google had plenty of practice (think: Nexus) before it came up with the made-by-Google tagline and before it designed the Pixel phone. And it shows. Here's what keeps me reaching for the Pixel while I (simultaneously) use the iPhone 7 Plus. I'm certainly not the first to say this but...despite having a 5.5-inch display, like the iPhone 7 Plus, it's both smaller and lighter than the 7 Plus . Cite all of the benchmarks you want. I believe performance is largely subjective. The Pixel XL feels slightly smoother (doing everyday tasks) than the 7 Plus. That was not the case for Android in the past. I'm not going to dispute the fact that the iPhone 7/7 Plus has a great LCD display , but Google, with its gorgeous OLED screen, has already arrived where Apple is likely going with the so-called "iPhone 8" in 2017. This is an Apple strong suit but the Pixel XL is one very solid phone. OK, so the Pixel XL doesn't beat the iPhone 7 Plus on everything. The camera, for instance. I spent a few days comparing indoor photos taken on the 7 Plus and Pixel XL, and the 7 Plus produced, on average, better photos. Colors typically (but not always) looked more accurate and low-light photos were often better. That said, I won't render a final verdict until I do longer-term testing. For now, let's say the Pixel XL's camera is neck-and-neck with the 7 Plus. iPhone 7 (Apple)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Why Samsung May Release A Foldable Smartphone Next Year -- Even If It Won't Make Them Any Money

Google has done its homework.

I owned the 2nd gen Moto X (at the time, a Google phone via Google's brief ownership of Motorola Mobility) and am now using the Pixel XL. The Moto X is a great phone but the XL is scary good. And this is coming from a diehard Apple, MacBook, and iPhone user -- and satisfied owner of the iPhone 7 Plus.

Google had plenty of practice (think: Nexus) before it came up with the made-by-Google tagline and before it designed the Pixel phone. And it shows.

Here's what keeps me reaching for the Pixel while I (simultaneously) use the iPhone 7 Plus.

Size/weight: I'm certainly not the first to say this but...despite having a 5.5-inch display, like the iPhone 7 Plus, it's both smaller and lighter than the 7 Plus.

Speed: Cite all of the benchmarks you want. I believe performance is largely subjective. The Pixel XL feels slightly smoother (doing everyday tasks) than the 7 Plus. That was not the case for Android in the past.

Display: I'm not going to dispute the fact that the iPhone 7/7 Plus has a great LCD display, but Google, with its gorgeous OLED screen, has already arrived where Apple is likely going with the so-called "iPhone 8" in 2017.

Build quality: This is an Apple strong suit but the Pixel XL is one very solid phone.

Camera: OK, so the Pixel XL doesn't beat the iPhone 7 Plus on everything. The camera, for instance. I spent a few days comparing indoor photos taken on the 7 Plus and Pixel XL, and the 7 Plus produced, on average, better photos. Colors typically (but not always) looked more accurate and low-light photos were often better. That said, I won't render a final verdict until I do longer-term testing. For now, let's say the Pixel XL's camera is neck-and-neck with the 7 Plus.