Caught on camera: Driver hits El Paso police officer with his car
Caught on camera: Driver hits El Paso police officer with his car
Police and Law Enforcement Caught on camera: Driver hits El Paso police officer with his car By    An El Paso police officer is lucky to be alive after being hit by a car early Friday morning. Andy Rodriguez, a 23-year veteran, responded to the scene of an accident at about 3 a.m. He was conducting a field sobriety test on a suspected drunk driver when another drunk driver drove into an assisting patrol car and pushed it into Rodriguez. It all happened while a dash cam was rolling. Rodriguez can be seen trying to evade the oncoming car. He pushed the man he was conducting the sobriety test on out of the way, got flipped off the side of the car and made a hard landing on the ground. The patrol car rolled off the road and came to a stop. TWO CENTRAL GEORGIA POLICE OFFICERS SHOT AND WOUNDED WHILE SERVING WARRANT The officer who was with Rodriguez ran over to him and asked “Andy you okay?” Rodriguez appears to lie flat on his back while someone yells “No, no, no.” The officer assisting Rodriguez got on his radio and called for help. Rodriguez went to the hospital with minor injuries and was released the same morning. Both the driver who hit Rodriguez and the driver he was conducting the sobriety test on were arrested and charged with DWI.  Ray Bogan is a Fox News multimedia reporter based in El Paso, Texas. Follow him on twitter: @RayBogan

An El Paso police officer is lucky to be alive after being hit by a car early Friday morning.

Andy Rodriguez, a 23-year veteran, responded to the scene of an accident at about 3 a.m. He was conducting a field sobriety test on a suspected drunk driver when another drunk driver drove into an assisting patrol car and pushed it into Rodriguez. It all happened while a dash cam was rolling.

Rodriguez can be seen trying to evade the oncoming car. He pushed the man he was conducting the sobriety test on out of the way, got flipped off the side of the car and made a hard landing on the ground. The patrol car rolled off the road and came to a stop.

TWO CENTRAL GEORGIA POLICE OFFICERS SHOT AND WOUNDED WHILE SERVING WARRANT

The officer who was with Rodriguez ran over to him and asked “Andy you okay?”

Rodriguez appears to lie flat on his back while someone yells “No, no, no.”

The officer assisting Rodriguez got on his radio and called for help. Rodriguez went to the hospital with minor injuries and was released the same morning.

Both the driver who hit Rodriguez and the driver he was conducting the sobriety test on were arrested and charged with DWI.

Ray Bogan is a Fox News multimedia reporter based in El Paso, Texas. Follow him on twitter: @RayBogan