Seth Meyers Rips Donald Trump's Response To Russian Hacking Revelation
Seth Meyers Rips Trump's Response To Russian Hacking Revelation
On Monday’s broadcast of “ Late Night ,” the host said there was “some dispute” over allegations that both the Democratic and Republican parties’ emails were hacked. But only the Democrats’ were leaked ― as the Republican National Committee claims it wasn’t targeted at all, Meyers added. “Still you might expect an incoming president to take seriously the findings of the intelligence agencies that he’ll need to rely on as president,” said Meyers, who then chided Trump for the questionable statement his team released in response to the claims. The statement from the Trump transition team in response to the CIA report that The Washington Post first reported Friday read: “These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. It’s now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again.’” Following a short look of disbelief, Meyers broke down the inaccuracies in the statement. “Second, what do you mean the election ended a long time ago?” Meyers continued. “You mean five weeks ago? Put it this way, the Cubs’ World Series win was recent. Their previous World Series win was a long time ago.” Related Coverage  Someone Keeps Face Swapping Trump With The British Queen   And 2016's Most Depressing Meme Is...   Trump Picks Walter White To Run DEA In Hilarious 'SNL' Skit   Conan's Spoof Calls Between Obama And Trump Will Never Get Old  ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

On Monday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the host said there was “some dispute” over allegations that both the Democratic and Republican parties’ emails were hacked. But only the Democrats’ were leaked ― as the Republican National Committee claims it wasn’t targeted at all, Meyers added.

“Still you might expect an incoming president to take seriously the findings of the intelligence agencies that he’ll need to rely on as president,” said Meyers, who then chided Trump for the questionable statement his team released in response to the claims.

The statement from the Trump transition team in response to the CIA report that The Washington Post first reported Friday read:

“These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. It’s now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again.’”

Following a short look of disbelief, Meyers broke down the inaccuracies in the statement.

“First of all, it was not one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history,” he said.

“It actually ranks 46th out of 58 presidential elections. To put that in Sunday cable TV rating terms, Trump’s not ‘The Walking Dead,’ he’s the ‘Barefoot Contessa.’”

“Second, what do you mean the election ended a long time ago?” Meyers continued. “You mean five weeks ago? Put it this way, the Cubs’ World Series win was recent. Their previous World Series win was a long time ago.”