Watch: Snorkeller Almost Gets Attacked By Aggressive Eel After It Rips An Octopus's Arm Off!
Watch: Snorkeller Almost Gets Attacked By Aggressive Eel After It Rips An Octopus's Arm Off!
Watch: Snorkeller Almost Gets Attacked By Aggressive Eel After It Rips An Octopus's Arm Off! This couple's quick snorkelling trip in the waters of Hanauma Bay near the Hawaiian island of Oahu turned into a first-hand lesson on how wild and unpredictable animals can really be, recently. The lady managed to catch an epic underwater battle between and moray eel and an octopus. The video opens to a scene where the eel in question has caught one of the octopus's arms. In the brief but eventful struggle, the two thrash about until eventually the eel manages to bite off the octopus's arm. Meanwhile, the octopus releases black ink to distract the eel, and it does, in a way, work. The eel swims away and so does the octopus. Luckily for the octopus, it can regenerate its lost limb. The eel, on the other hand, seems a little pissed off, notices the camera and swims right into the camera as if to start another round of vicious attacks. Luckily for the person behind the camera, and the viewer, the eel swims away and the video closes with a shot of a now-relieved swimmer. Watch the crazy video below:

This couple's quick snorkelling trip in the waters of Hanauma Bay near the Hawaiian island of Oahu turned into a first-hand lesson on how wild and unpredictable animals can really be, recently.

The lady managed to catch an epic underwater battle between and moray eel and an octopus. The video opens to a scene where the eel in question has caught one of the octopus's arms. In the brief but eventful struggle, the two thrash about until eventually the eel manages to bite off the octopus's arm.

Stills from the video

Meanwhile, the octopus releases black ink to distract the eel, and it does, in a way, work. The eel swims away and so does the octopus. Luckily for the octopus, it can regenerate its lost limb. The eel, on the other hand, seems a little pissed off, notices the camera and swims right into the camera as if to start another round of vicious attacks.

Luckily for the person behind the camera, and the viewer, the eel swims away and the video closes with a shot of a now-relieved swimmer.

Watch the crazy video below: