Polar bear and wild reindeer decline worsening as climate change continues to melt Arctic ice: study



Polar bear and wild reindeer decline worsening as climate change continues to melt Arctic ice: study

Posted

Rising global temperatures melting sea ice in the Arctic are predicted to worsen the decline in polar bear numbers over the next 40 years, a new US-led study has found.

Scientists said the 26,000-strong polar bear population is expected to diminish by a third, some 8,600 animals, over the next 35-40 years as their chief habitat disappears.

The new findings by university and government researchers were presented as part of a panel discussion about climate impacts on wildlife during a meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco on Monday (local time).

The polar bear research was drawn from new satellite data documenting a loss of Arctic sea ice from 1979 to 2015 and forming the basis of projections in further declines of both ice and bears over the coming decades.

"There is the potential for a large reduction in the global population of polar bears over the next three generations if the sea ice loss continues at the rate we've seen it," University of Washington Polar Science Centre marine mammal ecologist Kristin Laidre said.

The study was led by the US Fish and Wildlife Service's Eric Regehr, who said habitat loss was unequivocal but effects have varied among the world's 19 sub-populations of polar bears, whose range lies mainly within the Arctic Circle.

Mr Regehr pointed to a region north of Alaska where the numbers have dropped sharply amid significant sea ice losses.

However, another population west of Alaska appeared to have experienced less impact, but that area may sustain larger, healthier populations of seals and other polar bear prey.

Polar bears were declared a threatened species in 2008 and one study predicted they could vanish from two-thirds of their native range by mid-century.

Polar bears, standing as tall as 3.35 metres and weighing up to 635 kilograms use floating sea ice as platforms for everything from mating and rearing their young, to hunting their preferred prey of ringed seals.

Wild reindeer numbers also falling thanks to climate change

A warmer climate is also thought to be a primary culprit in the rapid decline of wild reindeer and their close cousins, caribou.

University of Northern Iowa Arctic Centre head Andrey Petrov said his study of wild reindeer in Taimyr, northern Russia showed the herd's population has fallen from 1 million in 2000 to the latest estimates of about 600,000 animals.

The Taimyr population, accounting for about 24 per cent of all wild reindeer, is challenged by such factors as loss of young because of migration patterns hampered by a warming climate.

Mr Petrov's findings come after Scottish and Norwegian researchers concluded reindeers on an Artic island near the North Pole are losing weight thanks to a side-effect of climate change.

The average weight of adult reindeer on Svalbard, a chain of islands north of Norway, has fallen from 55 kilograms in the 1990s to 48kg.

"Warmer summers are great for reindeer but winters are getting increasingly tough," James Hutton Institute ecologist Professor Steve Albon said.

Warmer winters mean once-reliable snows fall more often as rain that can freeze into a sheet of ice, making it harder for the herbivores to reach plant food.

Reuters

Topics: climate-change, environmental-impact, animals, animal-science, antarctica