23 Products Everyone Who Hates Everyone Needs To Own
23 Products Everyone Who Hates Everyone Needs To Own
A scarf to scare chatty folks away. Just point to it whenever someone tries to start up a conversation. Get it from Amazon for $19.99 . A tee that understands your personal hell. Get it from Chummy Tees on Etsy for $22.95 (available in two different colors and men’s and women’s sizes).  Pencils for when you’re exhausted from dealing with literally everyone. Uggghhhhhhhh. Get them from Amazon for $8.99 . A bracelet stamped with your *true* name. The name is Thrope. Miss Ann Thrope. Get it from Knotwork on Etsy for $16 . A hoodie for someone who’d rather be abducted by aliens than work on a group project. Get the hoodie from Redbubble for $53 or a tee for $25 (available in a ton of different colors and men’s and women’s sizes from small to 3XL). A giant body pillow for those times when you actually want to cuddle. Bonus: Plush cats don’t talk. Get it from Amazon for $74.95 . And a pillow that’s an extra-strength defense against bullshit. Get it from Betty Turbo on Etsy for $20 . A pair of gloves that will do all your talking for you. Talk to the hand. Literally. Get them Talkigloves from on Etsy for $39.99 . A tent to turn your bed into an escape pod. amazon.com amazon.com Get it from Amazon for $129.99 (available in twin, twin XL, full, or queen… plus a variety of different colors). A tote for anyone who prefers the company of canines. > Get it from Cassandra Berger on Society6 for $13 . A bottle opener made for drinking alone. amazon.com amazon.com Pop some tops and then hang it on your door. These brews are just for you. Get it from Amazon for $6.05 . A laptop sticker to help you avoid small talk when you’re working in a coffee shop. Get it from Andi Bird on Society6 for $20+ (for a variety of different laptop and tablet sizes). An ostrich pillow that lets you hide your head in the “sand.” “Ludo?” “Ludo isn’t here.” “But I can see you…” “No you can’t.” Get it from Amazon for $15.58 . A baseball tee to gesture to when someone invades your personal bubble. Get it from Look Human for $24.99 (also available in tee, tank, and hoodie form and five different colors). And a decal to guard your door for you. etsy.com etsy.com Get it from Iinky on Etsy for $14.99 . An adorable brooch to communicate how antisocial you are. Get it from Jesiiii on Etsy for $20 .  Wrapping paper to use when someone forces you to go to a party. “I told you I didn’t want to go!” Get it from Julie Ann Art on Etsy for $4.99 .  Socks for those who prefer to be a party of one. Get them from Yeah Bunny on Etsy for $14 . A set of prints featuring famous recluses. Thomas Pynchon, Emily Dickinson, and J.D. Salinger = #LifeGoals Get them from Terrific Friends on Etsy for $40 . A print celebrating the sweet sound of silence. Get it from Meera Lee Patel on Etsy for $30 . A pin featuring a quote from that’ll make you say, “Me.” Get it from Kate Gabrielle on Etsy for $13 . And a pin for anyone who knows that one doesn’t have to be the loneliest number. urbanoutfitters.com urbanoutfitters.com Harry Nilsson totally had it wrong . Get it from Urban Outfitters for $10 . And a mug featuring a plant who’s as antisocial as you are. Get it from Amazon for $19 . Columbia Pictures / Via jenniebasset.tumblr.com Columbia Pictures / Via jenniebasset.tumblr.com Bye forever. Want even *more* gift ideas? Check out all of our holiday gift guides here . Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

1. A scarf to scare chatty folks away.

Just point to it whenever someone tries to start up a conversation.

Get it from Amazon for $19.99.