Chef Roasts Diner Who Left Note Calling Christmas Music 'Offensive'
Chef Roasts Diner Who Left Note Calling Christmas Music 'Offensive'
Support on social media continued to pour in on Monday for a chef who called out a customer for protesting his restaurant’s in-house Christmas music. “Christmas music was offensive,” the patron wrote on the back of the receipt at Michael’s Tasting Room in St. Augustine, Florida. “Consider playing ‘holiday’ music or less religious-themed.” Executive chef Michael Lugo posted the note on Facebook last week with the caption, “Really ... what’s wrong with people.” “It’s very simple, offended person can eat somewhere else ! Like home!” one Facebook visitor wrote early on Monday. Another wrote: “Thank you Michael for having your business in the Christmas spirit . There are plenty of people that enjoy tunes they can sing to with [their] families. Merry Christmas and may your business keep rocking and rolling this season.” Others called the anonymous customer a “ Scrooge ” and a “ Grinch .” Lugo told First Coast News that a server brought the note to his attention. “ It’s all about celebration of family ... of gathering with friends and people and it’s a tradition,” Lugo said. “It’s not about a religion, it’s not about anything else. I am a Christian but I don’t push that as my agenda. I think that Christmas is Christmas.” ALSO ON HUFFPOST The Obamas' Last Christmas Tree Lighting       Share this slide:       MORE:

Support on social media continued to pour in on Monday for a chef who called out a customer for protesting his restaurant’s in-house Christmas music. “Christmas music was offensive,” the patron wrote on the back of the receipt at Michael’s Tasting Room in St. Augustine, Florida. “Consider playing ‘holiday’ music or less religious-themed.”

Executive chef Michael Lugo posted the note on Facebook last week with the caption, “Really ... what’s wrong with people.”

“It’s very simple, offended person can eat somewhere else! Like home!” one Facebook visitor wrote early on Monday.

Another wrote: “Thank you Michael for having your business in the Christmas spirit. There are plenty of people that enjoy tunes they can sing to with [their] families. Merry Christmas and may your business keep rocking and rolling this season.”

Others called the anonymous customer a “Scrooge” and a “Grinch.”

Lugo told First Coast News that a server brought the note to his attention.