High-level Defence meetings with Japan postponed over Minister Marise Payne's health



High-level Defence meetings with Japan postponed over Minister Marise Payne's health

Posted

The continuing ill health of Defence Minister Marise Payne has forced the postponement of high-powered regional security talks and fuelled rumours inside the Government over her future in Cabinet.

Senator Payne was due to fly to Tokyo next week with Foreign Minister Julie Bishop for annual, "two-plus-two" meetings with their Japanese counterparts, but the talks have been deferred until the new year.

Australia's first female defence minister recently had abdominal surgery for an infection and has been off work for some weeks.

Ms Bishop confirmed next week's highly anticipated talks had to be postponed.

"We will need to defer the meeting until early in the new year and the Japanese understand that because of Minister Payne's recent illness she's been advised not to travel," Ms Bishop told reporters in Canberra.

"She is getting better but she's had advice that she shouldn't travel at this time and we've spoken to our Japanese counterparts and they're looking forward to rescheduling in the new year."

The Japanese talks were due to come at a critical time, with growing regional uncertainty about US president-elect Donald Trump's foreign policy stance and concerns with Chinese military expansion in the South China Sea.

Japanese officials are still smarting at the Federal Government's decision this year to select a French design for the next generation of Australian submarines.

Minister for Defence Industry Christopher Pyne — currently in Europe — insisted his senior portfolio colleague would be back at work soon.

"I spoke to the Defence Minister on Saturday, she's in very good spirits and she's recovering well," Mr Pyne said.

Senator Payne's inability to fly prevented her attending a Cabinet meeting in Canberra on Tuesday although government sources confirmed she participated via a phone link.

Expectations of a ministerial reshuffle within weeks have intensified among Liberal MPs with some of the Defence Minister's colleagues questioning her tenure in the high-profile portfolio.

One senior Coalition source conceded there was a "nasty" campaign underway by some individuals in the Government to undermine Senator Payne's position.

Senator Payne made history in September last year when Malcolm Turnbull appointed the long-serving parliamentarian as the nation's first female defence minister.

Topics: defence-and-national-security, foreign-affairs, australia, japan