Anti-feminist Tory MP Philip Davies elected to Parliament's women and equalities committee
Anti-feminist Tory MP Philip Davies elected to Parliament's women and equalities committee
An outspoken Conservative critic of feminism has been elected to the Parliamentary committee in charge of holding the Government to account on equalities and women’s issues. Philip Davies was elected unopposed to fill a Conservative spot on the Commons Women and Equalities Committee that was vacated after another member joined the Government. The MP for Shipley said in August that “feminist zealots” were “stirring up” problems and that a number of women wanted equality but “only when it suits”.   Tory MP Philip Davies says more women should be sent to prison He has campaigned hard for the recognition of International Men’s Day in Parliament, arguing last month that men has lost their voice in the national discourse in recent years. Last year Mr Davies caused a storm after he said more women should be sent to prison in order to achieve equality with men. Mr Davies confirmed his appointment with a post on social media. At the time of writing Women and Equalities Committee’s office said the election of a replacement Tory candidate was a matter for the Conservative party and that it had not yet been notified. The membership of select committees reflects the party balance in the House of Commons and Mr Davies would have been chosen to represent the Tories on the committee by a ballot of his fellow Conservative MPs, though he was unopposed. The countries with anti-women laws               The countries with anti-women laws                                    Mr Davies currently serves on the Justice Committee and previously served on the Culture, Media and Sport Committee. The Women and Equalities Committee, which was created last year, scrutinises the progress and policies of the Government Equalities Office and the Government's overall performance on issues of sex, age, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, disability, gender identity, pregnancy and maternity, marriage or civil partnership status. More about: Philip Davies Feminism equalities Comments

An outspoken Conservative critic of feminism has been elected to the Parliamentary committee in charge of holding the Government to account on equalities and women’s issues.

Philip Davies was elected unopposed to fill a Conservative spot on the Commons Women and Equalities Committee that was vacated after another member joined the Government.

The MP for Shipley said in August that “feminist zealots” were “stirring up” problems and that a number of women wanted equality but “only when it suits”.

He has campaigned hard for the recognition of International Men’s Day in Parliament, arguing last month that men has lost their voice in the national discourse in recent years.

Last year Mr Davies caused a storm after he said more women should be sent to prison in order to achieve equality with men.

Mr Davies confirmed his appointment with a post on social media. At the time of writing Women and Equalities Committee’s office said the election of a replacement Tory candidate was a matter for the Conservative party and that it had not yet been notified.

The membership of select committees reflects the party balance in the House of Commons and Mr Davies would have been chosen to represent the Tories on the committee by a ballot of his fellow Conservative MPs, though he was unopposed.

Mr Davies currently serves on the Justice Committee and previously served on the Culture, Media and Sport Committee.

The Women and Equalities Committee, which was created last year, scrutinises the progress and policies of the Government Equalities Office and the Government's overall performance on issues of sex, age, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, disability, gender identity, pregnancy and maternity, marriage or civil partnership status.