China holds National Day of Remembrance for Nanjing Massacre victims
China holds National Day of Remembrance for Nanjing Massacre victims


A moment of silence paid tribute to the fallen and Chinese guards presented wreaths of flowers

was held at Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall in 2014

The first National Day of

Thousands of people honoured those killed by Japanese troops in a massacre beginning

On this day 79 years ago, Imperial Japanese troops ransacked the city of Nanjing killing 300,000 people in a six week reign of terror.

Today Chinese residents, survivors and government leaders stood in the rain to remember the dead for China's third official National Day of Remembrance of the massacre.

Nearly 8,000 paid tribute at 7.00am local time at the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall which is built on one of the execution grounds and mass graves.

Thousands stand for a silent tribute for those killed in the Nanjing Massacre at the Memorial Hall

The Chinese People's Liberation Army marches to pay tribute to the 300,000 people killed in the Nanjing Massacre

The third official National Memorial Day for Nanjing Massacre was held at the memorial hall which was built in 1985

In 2014 the China's National People's Congress made the anniversary of the invasion an official national day of remembrance.

On December 13, 1937 the Japanese invaded Nanjing which only had a few untrained auxiliary troops as their defense. Chinese soldiers and civilians were mercilessly slaughtered and women was raped and taken as 'comfort women'.

Over the weekend people added 110 new names of those killed on the memorial wall also called the 'wailing wall'. People's Daily reports there are now 10,615 names inscribed.

The Chinese People's Liberation Army stood guard of the thousands of people who stood in the rain in a moment of silence.

People came to pay their respects for victims of the Nanjing Massacre and wore ponchos because it was raining

Regina, Ip chairwoman of the New People's Party and former Hong Kong Secretary for Security, attended the memorial

Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying paid his respects and signed a condolences book at the ceremony

A slew of government officials also paid respects such as Regina Ip, the chairwoman of the New People's Party and Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying.

Guards presented wreaths of flowers during the somber affair and Zhao Leji of the Central Committee of the Communist Party spoke to honour the fallen.

Wish walls were built in Nanjing's busiest subway stations back in December and invite residents to pay their respects to the victims.

People stand for a moment of silence at the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo is planning to visit Pearl Harbor this month. The Japanese government have not issued a formal apology for the Nanjing Massacre.

The Japanese government did issue a apology to 'comfort women' of South Korea last year, but many thought it was far too little too late.

There are only 108 living survivors of the Nanjing Massacre. Many were just children during the slaughterings which included mass executions.

Bodies fill the streets of Nanjing during the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937

The Nanjing Massacre saw 300,000 people killed and tens of thousands of women sexually assaulted