Ivanka Trump's Boots Are Getting Some Interesting Reviews on Amazon
Ivanka Trump's Boots Are Getting Some Interesting Reviews on Amazon
These boots are perfectly designed to trample on fellow Americans’ Civil Rights Day or Night. Your legs will be enclosed in a tight, made-somewhere-that-is-not-America material that will squeeze all the blood from your brain, resulting in blind admiration of demagoguery. All the while, your feet will continue to atrophy as they are are squeezed into a fetishized version of the female body which likely will not include making decisions on its behalf. That said, you get what you ask for.   These are really really restrictive and tight – no wiggle room for any kind of freedom of thought. Can you get sued for writing a bad review of a product? Anyway, these boots might fit a person that is male, straight, white and Christian but if you don’t fit all these criteria, they are NOT the boots for you! They are made in a sweatshop by child labor in a foreign country because that’s called being smart. I heard they are going to move manufacturing to Taiwan, which may make them better but who knows. Everyone keeps telling me to wait and see. They are certainly not comfortable enough to stand in for four years.  A review titled “ These ill-fitting boots are a perfect reminder that I should be seen ” reads:  I was feeling way over confident and I needed to be put in my place. These ill-fitting boots are a perfect reminder that I should be seen, admired for my womanly “virtues”, rated in a scale from 1-10, and occasionally grabbed by my kitty cat. With these boots I feel like I am closer to the beautiful glass ceilings that allow natural light in to our offices – but certainly not close enough to break them.

Ivanka Trump’s role as the placeholder for those who take issue with her father’s policy stances and public sentiments continues. First there was the letter from the jewelry designers who told the mother and businesswoman that the proceeds from her purchase with them were being donated to support organizations that do work that is threatened by her father’s stances. Next came the #DearIvanka vigil (and sardonic Instagram posts).

The latest form of peaceful protest? Amazon reviews.

And around Ivanka Trump brand boots, especially.

Reads one review, titled, “You get what you ask for. Boots edition.”:

These boots are perfectly designed to trample on fellow Americans’ Civil Rights Day or Night. Your legs will be enclosed in a tight, made-somewhere-that-is-not-America material that will squeeze all the blood from your brain, resulting in blind admiration of demagoguery. All the while, your feet will continue to atrophy as they are are squeezed into a fetishized version of the female body which likely will not include making decisions on its behalf. That said, you get what you ask for.

Says another review, titled “Too restrictive, tight, Not enough room for growth, will only fit the 1%”:

These are really really restrictive and tight – no wiggle room for any kind of freedom of thought. Can you get sued for writing a bad review of a product? Anyway, these boots might fit a person that is male, straight, white and Christian but if you don’t fit all these criteria, they are NOT the boots for you! They are made in a sweatshop by child labor in a foreign country because that’s called being smart. I heard they are going to move manufacturing to Taiwan, which may make them better but who knows. Everyone keeps telling me to wait and see. They are certainly not comfortable enough to stand in for four years.

A review titled “These ill-fitting boots are a perfect reminder that I should be seen” reads:

I was feeling way over confident and I needed to be put in my place. These ill-fitting boots are a perfect reminder that I should be seen, admired for my womanly “virtues”, rated in a scale from 1-10, and occasionally grabbed by my kitty cat. With these boots I feel like I am closer to the beautiful glass ceilings that allow natural light in to our offices – but certainly not close enough to break them.

“A friend of mine posted a link on Facebook to the review she had just written on [a pair of Ivanka Trump label] boots. I thought it was a hilarious way to poke fun at Ivanka’s hypocrisy. I had to join in,” Laurel Wells Thompson of Atlanta tells Yahoo Style. Thompson is but one of many individuals embracing the well-loved tradition of the ironic Amazon review, and she’s taking it to a whole other postelection level.

Read More