Suspect Arrested After 2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia
2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested
Shares               Two police officers were shot during a traffic stop in Georgia on Monday night — the third time in less than two weeks that police officers in the state have been shot in the line of duty. Two officers from the Lavonia Police Department conducted the stop off I-85 on Monday night, according to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. During the stop, a person in the vehicle fired on the officers, the GBI said. Both suffered non-life-threatening injuries and were hospitalized. The GBI identified the shooter as Khari Anthony Dashaun Gordon, 22, of Greenville, South Carolina. He has been arrested and charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a police officer, two counts of criminal attempt to commit murder and one count of possession of a weapon during the commission of a felony. Additional charges are pending, the GBI said. Last week two officers were fatally shot while responding to a domestic violence call near Georgia Southwestern State University. Early Monday, a man shot and wounded two police officers in Crawford County, Georgia, who were executing a search warrant, prompting officers to return fire, killing him.   Shares                  2 Officers Shot During Traffic Stop in Georgia; Suspect Arrested   Obama Vows Retaliation as Evidence of Russian Hacking Mounts   Syrians Can't 'Slaughter Their Way to Legitimacy': Obama   Orphaned Children Remain Trapped in Aleppo After Evacuations Suspended   Obama Says Clinton Was Not 'Treated Fairly' During Election   N. Carolina GOP Strips Some of Democratic Governor's Power   Official: FBI Backs CIA Conclusion on Russian Hacking Motive   'Pizzagate' Shooting Suspect Pleads Not Guilty   'Rogue One:' Riz Ahmed on 'Star Wars' and Rap Battles   'Rogue One's' Diego Luna on Why 'Dark Side Is Very Sexy'   House GOP Quietly Closes Flint, Mich. Water Investigation   Trump Moves to Cancel Deals in Azerbaijan, Georgia   US Demands Return of Drone Seized by Chinese   Glitch in Christmas Tree Lights Sets Fire That Kills Couple   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Big Storm Hits California, Chopper Saves Homeless and Dogs   Bergdahl Judge Won't Allow Evidence of Injuries to Soldiers   15% of Texas Town Cleared to Use Tap Water After Chemical Spill   Michelle Obama: 'Now We Are Feeling What Not Having Hope Feels Like'   Everything You Need to Know About the Inauguration   'Frozen' Star Has Cold Words About Trump's Inauguration   Burning Questions About 'Rogue One' Answered   'Rogue One' Composer on Facing Down Nerves About 'Star Wars' Gig   Michael Jackson's Son Prince Explains How His Father Influenced Him   Football Team Refuses to Play Until Teammates Reinstated   Grand Juror in JonBenet Ramsey Case Speaks Out   Shannen Doherty Shares Insight Into Radiation Treatments   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Costs $30K

Two police officers were shot during a traffic stop in Georgia on Monday night — the third time in less than two weeks that police officers in the state have been shot in the line of duty.

Two officers from the Lavonia Police Department conducted the stop off I-85 on Monday night, according to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.

During the stop, a person in the vehicle fired on the officers, the GBI said. Both suffered non-life-threatening injuries and were hospitalized.

The GBI identified the shooter as Khari Anthony Dashaun Gordon, 22, of Greenville, South Carolina.

He has been arrested and charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a police officer, two counts of criminal attempt to commit murder and one count of possession of a weapon during the commission of a felony.

Additional charges are pending, the GBI said.

Last week two officers were fatally shot while responding to a domestic violence call near Georgia Southwestern State University.

Early Monday, a man shot and wounded two police officers in Crawford County, Georgia, who were executing a search warrant, prompting officers to return fire, killing him.

ABC News' Darren Reynolds contributed to this report.