London is Europe's cocaine capital – but only during the week
London is Europe's cocaine capital – but only during the week
ondon is the cocaine capital of Europe - but only during the week, new analysis suggests. When use of the Class A substance on weekends is also taken into account the city has been overtaken for the first time in three years. The findings emerged in a study of drug concentrations in sewage in dozens of European cities across 18 countries. Tests conducted in March showed the average weekday concentration of cocaine in London's wastewater was 949.3mg per 1,000 people per day. his was the highest level recorded across the research and a jump compared to the previous year, when it stood at 730.4mg per 1,000 people per day. However, the concentration of cocaine in the English capital was lower at weekends, at 840.5mg per 1,000 people per day. Former chief drugs adviser to the Government David Nutt said the decrease in cocaine use in London at weekend is "because the rich leave the city at weekends to their country houses." This was a fall compared to 2015 - and means London was out of tune compared to the continent as a whole, with levels rising sharply at weekends in most cities. Weekend averages cover Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, while weekday levels related to the other days of the week. Across the whole week the average daily concentration for cocaine in London's sewer waters was 894.9mg per 1,000 people per day - which was the second highest behind Antwerp in Belgium (914.8mg per 1,000 people per day). t is the first time since 2013 that the research, conducted by the EU's European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), has not shown London at the top of the chart overall for cocaine traces. One City worker pointed to work pressures as a reason for drug usage. Speaking anonymously, he said: “This doesn’t surprise me one bit. "The pressure we face, working at 110 per cent the whole time means that some people use cocaine. It just pumps you up that bit more. "When it comes to the weekend, there’s no screaming down the phone, no banging fists on tables, and no drugs. It’s quite nice to have a detox.” ental health charity Mind gave the Telegraph previously unreleased figures from a 2014 YouGov study that show 6 per cent of adults take recreational drugs to help cope with workplace pressure. Liesbeth Vandam, a wastewater expert who helped on the EMCDDA’s investigation, said: “The difference is small, but may be partially explained by London having a big commuting population, compared to other European cities.”

London is the cocaine capital of Europe - but only during the week, new analysis suggests.

When use of the Class A substance on weekends is also taken into account the city has been overtaken for the first time in three years.

The findings emerged in a study of drug concentrations in sewage in dozens of European cities across 18 countries.

Tests conducted in March showed the average weekday concentration of cocaine in London's wastewater was 949.3mg per 1,000 people per day.