Frito-Lay Drops Doritos Super Bowl TV Advertisements
Frito-Lay Drops Doritos Super Bowl TV Advertisements


Gabi Cope, of California, photographed her 9-month-old daughter, Esme, dressed as The Elf on the Shelf.

Baby Girl Gets Into Mischief as 'Esme on the Shelf'

Martha Hudson spotted Santa Claus and Rudolph driving motorcycles near Phoenix Park in Dublin, Ireland. The video of Mr. Claus and his favorite helper has gone viral on Facebook.

Obama Says Putin Can Weaken US 'If We Abandon Our Values'

The president stopped short of publicly connecting Putin to the Russian hacks of the DNC and John Podesta's email.

Obama: 'Not Much Happens in Russia Without Vladimir Putin'

Snow and cold temperatures stretch across the country from the Midwest to Maine.

In his end of the year press conference the President defending his actions saying to act more publicly would have politicized it.

ABC News' Political Commentator Cokie Roberts breaks down how the new information on Russian will be weighed in Senate confirmation hearings.

Running an ad in next year's Super Bowl "did not fit with our marketing plans," the chip company said.

View gallery Frito-Lay Drops Doritos Super Bowl TV Advertisements (ABC News)

Frito-Lay is closing the bag on its popular Doritos commercials for Super Bowl 2017.

The PepsiCo subsidiary has run ads during the NFL's biggest night for years. But now, Frito-Lay, which also makes Cheetos, Sun Chips and Funyuns, told ABC News that commercials for its products in next year's Super Bowl "did not fit with our marketing plans."

Chicago bureau chief E.J. Schultz of Advertising Age told ABC News the decision “gives them a year off to kind of think about what they might do next if they want to come back to next year's game [in 2018] and kind of reassess their strategy.”

Super Bowl 50: Meet Doritos' $1 Million Super Bowl Ad Winner

Super Bowl 50: A Sneak Peek at the Commercials for 2016

Plano, Texas-based Frito-Lay isn't the only veteran Super Bowl sponsor to opt out of spending millions for a 30-second ad.

GoDaddy stepped out of 2016's advertisements and Toyota has announced it will not run commercials during Super Bowl 51 on Feb. 5, also citing a marketing strategy.

"If you're going to spend that kind of money,” Ad Age’s Schultz said, “you got to have something really important to say or else it's going to be overshadowed by the other ads around it.”