Kanye West Vibes Out to deadmau5's 'Snowcone' in Pete Rock's Studio: Watch
Kanye West Vibes Out to deadmau5's 'Snowcone' in Pete Rock's Studio: Watch
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Kanye West Vibes Out to deadmau5's 'Snowcone' in Pete Rock's Studio: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Iconic producer Pete Rock recently snapped himself in the studio with Kanye West , showing the recently hospitalized superstar has wasted no time getting back to work after being discharged. West has reportedly been working on his next release and with deadmau5 recently showing he had skills as a hip-hop producer with his Shotty Horroh collab “Okay,” it seems his track “Snowcone” from his recently released is providing a bit of inspiration for the "Famous" rapper.  deadmau5 must follow Pete Rock on Snapchat since he tweeted the producer his appreciation for the sonic shout out. @PeteRock dig snowcone i see? that's rad. one of my favs.  All this comes after the highly-publicized war of words between Kanye and deadmau5 earlier in the year , when deadmau5 came at Kanye for using pirated software, then Kanye went ham making fun of his moniker and tried to book him for North's birthday party.  Check the snap featuring Pete Rock and Kanye West vibing to the track below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Deadmau5 andÂ Kanye West at the Tidal launch event #TIDALforALL at Skylight at Moynihan Station on March 30, 2015 in New York City. Â

Iconic producer Pete Rock recently snapped himself in the studio with Kanye West, showing the recently hospitalized superstar has wasted no time getting back to work after being discharged.

West has reportedly been working on his next release Turbo Grafx 16, and with deadmau5 recently showing he had skills as a hip-hop producer with his Shotty Horroh collab “Okay,” it seems his track “Snowcone” from his recently released W:/2016ALBUM is providing a bit of inspiration for the "Famous" rapper.

deadmau5 must follow Pete Rock on Snapchat since he tweeted the producer his appreciation for the sonic shout out.

@PeteRock dig snowcone i see? that's rad. one of my favs. — dead mow cinco (@deadmau5) December 9, 2016

All this comes after the highly-publicized war of words between Kanye and deadmau5 earlier in the year, when deadmau5 came at Kanye for using pirated software, then Kanye went ham making fun of his moniker and tried to book him for North's birthday party.

Check the snap featuring Pete Rock and Kanye West vibing to the track below.