In Their Final Push For The Control Of Aleppo, Syrian Army Has Killed At Least 82 Civilians, Says UN
In Their Final Push For The Control Of Aleppo, Syrian Army Has Killed At Least 82 Civilians
In Their Final Push For The Control Of Aleppo, Syrian Army Has Killed At Least 82 Civilians, Says UN As the battle to take control of Syria's second largest city, Aleppo has entered its final phase, the pro-government forces have been accused of killing unarmed civilians. The UN said 82 civilians were killed on the spot by the government troops. Rupert Colville, a UN human rights spokesman, said the reports indicated that 82 civilians had been killed across four different neighbourhoods. This include 11 women and 13 children. The number of civilian casualties is expected to further go up in the coming hours as the city, which has been divided between the pro and anti-government troops could fall into the Syrian Army's control any time now. Thousands of people are reportedly trapped in the last remaining neighbourhoods still in rebel hands, facing intense bombardment. The rebels, now confined to an ever decreasing enclave is continuing their race to the bottom. A Syrian Army commander had on Monday warned the rebels to surrender or face death.

As the battle to take control of Syria's second largest city, Aleppo has entered its final phase, the pro-government forces have been accused of killing unarmed civilians.

AFP

The UN said 82 civilians were killed on the spot by the government troops. Rupert Colville, a UN human rights spokesman, said the reports indicated that 82 civilians had been killed across four different neighbourhoods. This include 11 women and 13 children.

The number of civilian casualties is expected to further go up in the coming hours as the city, which has been divided between the pro and anti-government troops could fall into the Syrian Army's control any time now.

Reuters

Thousands of people are reportedly trapped in the last remaining neighbourhoods still in rebel hands, facing intense bombardment.

The rebels, now confined to an ever decreasing enclave is continuing their race to the bottom. A Syrian Army commander had on Monday warned the rebels to surrender or face death.