'The Fate of the Furious' Is Already Out Here Smashing Global Records
'The Fate of the Furious' Is Already Out Here Smashing Global Records
If you're hoping to smash a global record with your new movie, here's what you need to do: Make the first trailer has at least one wrecking ball, some sort of a tank-like vehicle, and the unrivaled Charlize Theron . Just ask Universal, whose fresh trailer for just bagged the "largest debut ever." Sorry, . The reliably preposterous first look at the eighth film in the franchise amassed approximately 139 million views in its first 24 hours of availability,  reported Tuesday. The previous record-holder, the aforementioned , managed an admirable 127.6 million first-day views last month. Combined YouTube and Facebook views for the trailer currently stand at nearly 39 million in North America and just under 50 million elsewhere. The trailer also aired during NBC's on Sunday, which notably preceded the Giants-Cowboys game. F + 8. GET IT?!?! stars Vin Diesel, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, Jason Statham, Tyrese Gibson, Ludacris, Michelle Rodriguez, the previously mentioned Theron, Helen Mirren. With director F. Gary Gray behind the camera, what can longtime heads expect? According to Diesel, we shouldn't be surprised if grabs an Oscar . "As bizarre as that might be, [Gray] is definitely going to [be recognized]," Diesel told  back in October. "As crazy as that might sound, he should have really been acknowledged for . I think he went into making this movie with a little bit of a chip [on his shoulder], going 'Oh, really? Now I'm going to take the biggest saga in the world, and I'm about to throw Oscars at you.'" opens Apr. 14, 2017.

If you're hoping to smash a global record with your new movie, here's what you need to do: Make absolutely sure the first trailer has at least one wrecking ball, some sort of a tank-like vehicle, and the unrivaled Charlize Theron. Just ask Universal, whose fresh trailer for The Fate of the Furious just bagged the "largest debut ever." Sorry, Beauty and the Beast.

The reliably preposterous first look at the eighth film in the Fast and Furious franchise amassed approximately 139 million views in its first 24 hours of availability, Deadline reported Tuesday. The previous record-holder, the aforementioned Beast, managed an admirable 127.6 million first-day views last month. Combined YouTube and Facebook views for the Fate trailer currently stand at nearly 39 million in North America and just under 50 million elsewhere. The trailer also aired during NBC's Football Night in America on Sunday, which notably preceded the Giants-Cowboys game.

The Fate (F + 8. GET IT?!?!) of the Furious stars Vin Diesel, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, Jason Statham, Tyrese Gibson, Ludacris, Michelle Rodriguez, the previously mentioned Theron, and Helen Mirren. With Straight Outta Compton director F. Gary Gray behind the camera, what can longtime Fast and Furious heads expect? According to Diesel, we shouldn't be surprised if Fate grabs an Oscar.

"As bizarre as that might be, [Gray] is definitely going to [be recognized]," Diesel told Entertainment Tonight back in October. "As crazy as that might sound, he should have really been acknowledged for Straight Outta Compton. I think he went into making this movie with a little bit of a chip [on his shoulder], going 'Oh, really? Now I'm going to take the biggest saga in the world, and I'm about to throw Oscars at you.'"

The Fate of the Furious opens Apr. 14, 2017.