Hitler's doped-up soldiers, crocodile-infested waters and a creepy castle – which Nazi rumours are really true?
Hitler's doped-up soldiers, crocodile-infested waters and a creepy castle – which Nazi rumours are really true?
n the morning of May 9, 1940, a group of 85 Nazi soldiers flew glider planes into one of the most impregnable fortresses in western Europe. Packed with guns and weapons, the enormous Fort Eben Emael – covering more than 175 acres – stood in the way of Adolf Hitler’s route of invasion into Belgium. Instead of a traditional attack on the fort, which would have cost both time and troops, the Nazis hoped this small group of fighters would be able to – by themselves – surprise the Belgians, disable their fearsome guns and free up the path for the invading army following behind. Remarkably, it worked. Even more remarkably, it took just 15 minutes. The attack was a breathtaking success, and a perfect example of the Nazis’ lightning war strategy, or blitzkrieg. It was also a cause of serious concern for the Allies, who were mystified as to how the mighty Eben Emael had fallen. Rumours soon began...

On the morning of May 9, 1940, a group of 85 Nazi soldiers flew glider planes into one of the most impregnable fortresses in western Europe. Packed with guns and weapons, the enormous Fort Eben Emael – covering more than 175 acres – stood in the way of Adolf Hitler’s route of invasion into Belgium.

Instead of a traditional attack on the fort, which would have cost both time and troops, the Nazis hoped this small group of fighters would be able to – by themselves – surprise the Belgians, disable their fearsome guns and free up the path for the invading army following behind.

Remarkably, it worked. Even more remarkably, it took just 15 minutes. The attack was a breathtaking success, and a perfect example of the Nazis’ lightning war strategy, or blitzkrieg. It was also a cause of serious concern for the Allies, who were mystified as to how the mighty Eben Emael had fallen. Rumours soon began...