This Video of LeBron Going Nuts to Kendrick Lamar Performing Is Amazing
This Video of LeBron Going Nuts to Kendrick Lamar Performing Is Amazing 
Even without LeBron James ’ help, there’s no doubt that Kendrick Lamar would have had a big year in 2016. He started things off by putting on a memorable performance at the 2016 Grammy Awards in February. He followed that up by releasing an album full of unreleased material called in March, which later landed at No. 11 on our list of the 50 best albums of 2016 . And in between doing about 100 other things (no, really, we’ve done 135 news posts on K-Dot so far this year—see here ), he also appeared on two big pop songs, Sia’s "The Greatest" and Maroon 5’s "Don’t Wanna Know," towards the end of 2016. So yeah, it would have been a year for Kendrick, with or without LeBron's assistance. But there’s no denying that LeBron helped pushed Kendrick to greater heights in 2016. LeBron was actually the one who encouraged Kendrick to consider packaging his unreleased songs so that he could release them as a proper project. Yo @dangerookipawaa after that @kendricklamar Grammy performance , you have to release those untitled tracks asap!!! What's up? Talk to me LeBron also shot an Uninterrupted video that featured him singing Kendrick’s praises for more than a minute: VIDEO: @KingJames recognizes the greatness that is @KendrickLamar .  Download @go90 for more: https://t.co/ a8Du6t4RyB https ://t.co/YKgp1GfT8k LeBron used Kendrick’s "Alright" to soundtrack the inspirational post-presidential election post he put up on Instagram, further cementing the importance of the Grammy-winning cut: As I woke up today looking and searching for answers on what has happened this song hit it right on the head! If we continue the faith(as hard as it may be to do so) we will BE ALRIGHT!! Parents and leaders of our children please let them know they can still change the world for the better! Don't lose a bit of faith! They're our future and we must remain stronger than ever!! Yes we all wanna lace up the boots, put on the hard hats and strike but that's not the answer. Love, genuine LOVE and FAITH will be the only thing that can get us through this. Minorities and Women in all please know that this isn't the end, it's just a very challenging obstacle that we will overcome!! The man above will never put something in our paths that we can handle no matter how difficult it may feel/be! To all the youth out there I PROMISE I'll continue to lead u guys every single day without no hesitation!! Time to educate and even more mold my children into being the greatest model citizens they can become in life! They will continue the legacy beyond life! Lastly, Even if whos now in office doesn't, Know that I LOVE YOU'LL!!! A video posted by LeBron James (@kingjames) on Nov 9, 2016 at 8:06am PST And while most people focused on the relationship that exists between LeBron and Jay Z at the Sportsperson of the Year ceremony held at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. on Monday night after the dig Jay took at Phil Jackson on LeBron's behalf , Jay wasn’t the only rapper who caught LeBron’s attention at the event. LeBron was also into the performance that Kendrick put on when he ran through "untitled 07" from on the stage. Seriously, just look at LeBron go! Biggest Kendrick Lamar fan at @SInow Sportsman of the Year event in Brooklyn? Definitely, without a doubt, Mr. LeBron James. pic.twitter.com/5hK9LNFSsX Kendrick x LeBron continues to be a winning combination.

Even without LeBron James’ help, there’s no doubt that Kendrick Lamar would have had a big year in 2016. He started things off by putting on a memorable performance at the 2016 Grammy Awards in February. He followed that up by releasing an album full of unreleased material called untitled unmastered. in March, which later landed at No. 11 on our list of the 50 best albums of 2016. And in between doing about 100 other things (no, really, we’ve done 135 news posts on K-Dot so far this year—see here), he also appeared on two big pop songs, Sia’s "The Greatest" and Maroon 5’s "Don’t Wanna Know," towards the end of 2016. So yeah, it would have been a huge year for Kendrick, with or without LeBron's assistance.

But there’s no denying that LeBron helped pushed Kendrick to greater heights in 2016. LeBron was actually the one who encouraged Kendrick to consider packaging his unreleased songs so that he could release them as a proper project.

Yo @dangerookipawaa after that @kendricklamar Grammy performance , you have to release those untitled tracks asap!!! What's up? Talk to me — LeBron James (@KingJames) February 23, 2016

LeBron also shot an Uninterrupted video that featured him singing Kendrick’s praises for more than a minute:

LeBron used Kendrick’s "Alright" to soundtrack the inspirational post-presidential election post he put up on Instagram, further cementing the importance of the Grammy-winning To Pimp a Butterfly cut:

And while most people focused on the relationship that exists between LeBron and Jay Z at the Sports Illustrated Sportsperson of the Year ceremony held at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. on Monday night after the dig Jay took at Phil Jackson on LeBron's behalf, Jay wasn’t the only rapper who caught LeBron’s attention at the event. LeBron was also really into the performance that Kendrick put on when he ran through "untitled 07" from untitled unmastered. on the SI stage. Seriously, just look at LeBron go!

Biggest Kendrick Lamar fan at @SInow Sportsman of the Year event in Brooklyn? Definitely, without a doubt, Mr. LeBron James. pic.twitter.com/5hK9LNFSsX — Ben Reiter (@BenReiter) December 13, 2016

Kendrick x LeBron continues to be a winning combination.