The Walking Dead season 7: All 8 episodes, ranked
The Walking Dead season 7: All 8 episodes, ranked
The first half of season 7 is complete having aired its dramatic midseason finale which was high on gore as well as the optimism. Ever since the tumultuous season premiere which was host to some of the most violent scenes in TV history, ratings have seen something of a decline with many fans believing the season's format - self-contained bottle episodes focusing on different characters in varying locations - to have brought about a dip in quality. Regardless, remains one of the boldest shows currently on television bolstered by the addition of Jeffrey Dean Morgan as the fearsome Negan. To tide you over until the show's return in February, we've ranked all eight episodes to have aired so far from best to worst. The most shocking Walking Dead moments               The most shocking Walking Dead moments    Sophie's a walker (season 2, episode 7)   Much of season two's opening half is spent looking for Sophia, the missing daughter of Carol (Melissa McBride). Turns out she was locked up in Hershel's barn as a zombie all along.      Shane reanimates without being bitten (season 2, episode 12)   When Carl (Chandler Riggs) guns down a deranged Shane (Jon Bernthal) to protect his father, the shock arrives when he manifests into a walker despite not being bitten; turns out everyone's infected with the virus and will turn whichever way they die.      Axel's bullet to the eye (season 3, episode 10)   A character introduced in the show's prison arc, Axel is a reformed prisoner who strikes up a friendship with Carol - until he's gunned down mid-sentence.      Carl kills Lori after she gives birth (season 3, episode 4)   Lori (Sarah Wayne Callies) goes into labour at the very moment a zombie siege breaks out at the prison. Unfortunately, she doesn't make it through the procedure with her son Carl being the one to put a bullet to her head.      The Governor slays Hershel (season 4, episode 8)   The Governor makes his dramatic return for a showdown at the prison after he captures Michonne (Danai Gurira) and Hershel (Scott Wilson). Rick reaches out, attempting to reason with him - but The Governor starts a war when he proceeds to decapitate poor old Hershel instead.      "Look at the flowers" (season 4, episode 14)   In a standout episode from the show's fourth season, Carol is forced to take drastic measures when young teenager Lizzie murders her sister Mika in the belief that she'll live on as a zombie. Realising Lizzie's depraved mind would endanger those around her, Carol puts a gun to the young girl's head and, telling her to "look at the flowers," pulls the trigger, fighting back the tears.      Carl's bullet to the eye (season 6, episode 9)   Season six returned from its mid-season break in typically dramatic fashion when an iconic moment from the graphic novels came to life: Carl takes a bullet to the eye.      Beth is killed (season 5, episode 8)   Upon being kidnapped, Beth (Emily Kinney) is taken to Grady Memorial Hospital managed by Atlanta Law Enforcement. Forced to reside there against her will, the group - including Rick and Daryl (Norman Reedus) - eventually find her - only for her to be accidentally shot in the head by her captor. The worst thing? Her sister Maggie (Lauren Cohan) had just arrived outside.   The midseason finale, while heavy on the blood (R.I.P. Spencer and Olivia) was something of a departure for the series in the way it ended on a rare note of hope. The fact that this capped a devastating batch of episodes will undoubtedly permit fans to re-watch season seven's bleak first half with renewed enjoyment knowing a newly-invigorated Rick (Andrew Lincoln) will soon be sparking the wheels of war into motion. Read our review here. The most controversial episode in the series' seven-year history; the season premiere thrust you starkly into a nightmarish future under Negan's rule. The episode's gratuity was criticised upon its airing - as well as the brutal killings of Abraham (Michael Cudlitz) and Glenn (Steven Yeun), an extended sequence saw Negan almost convince Rick to chop his son's arm off - but despite this, television has never come more sobering. Perhaps not an enjoyable outing but an essential one all the same. Read our review here. The first of season seven's three feature-length episodes saw Negan bring his clan of Saviours to Alexandria. Ratcheting up the tension throughout, the hour subtly laid the groundwork for cataclysmic events to follow as well as providing several supporting characters with their best scenes yet through interplay with the big bad (here's looking at you, Father Gabriel). Read our review here. This episode boasted the best opening the show may have ever seen (Carl goes full-on cowboy after machine-gunning down some Saviours), but failed to live up to those moments despite bringing fans several scenes they've been waiting for ever since they heard Negan would be appearing. Sure, the episode may not have done those moments the full justice they deserved (give 'em a re-watch - they do improve) but it certainly marked a new era for Carl, a character growing in importance with each new episode. Read our review here. This episode had the tough task of not only following the traumatic season premiere but introducing viewers to an entirely new world led by a king and his pet tiger. While it wasn't loaded with standout moments, the early scene showing Carol (Melissa McBride) meeting Ezekiel and Shiva will have you chortling more than anything set in the post-apocalypse ever should. A necessary breather. Read our review here. This episode boldly split the majority of screen time between Negan's loyal aide, Dwight (Austin Amelio), and fan favourite, Daryl (Norman Reedus) who we saw reduced disturbingly from badass to weakened prisoner. This was also the outing that introduced us to the machinations of the Sanctuary, the Saviours' compound that'll no doubt be revisited heavily in the future. Oh, and a shoutout goes to the earworm you've probably only just got out of your head - all together now: "We're on Easy Street." Read our review here. Something of an odd departure for , 'Swear' caught up with Tara (Alanna Masterson) and Heath (Corey Hawkins), two characters that casual fans may have struggle recalling. The writers gave the lion's share of the episode to the former who we see wash up on shore before colliding with a brand new community known as Oceanside. While failing to chart as one of the series' best instalments, it served as proof that the majority of the main cast could be dropped in favour of smaller characters with relative success. Read our review here. Perhaps it was the out-of-sorts character actions or the shoddy script that positions 'The Go-Getters' as one of 's weakest outings yet. Catching up with a grieving Maggie (Lauren Cohan) and Sasha (Sonequa Martin-Green) at the Hilltop Colony, the entire running time felt strangely as if it had been penned by someone who had been briefed on  the show's happenings over a few beers down the pub. A rare blip. Read our review here. season 7 returns internationally on 13 February - you can watch the first trailer, which teases war against Negan, here . More about: The Walking Dead The Walking Dead season 7 Comments

The first half of The Walking Dead season 7 is complete having aired its dramatic midseason finale which was high on gore as well as the optimism.

Ever since the tumultuous season premiere which was host to some of the most violent scenes in TV history, ratings have seen something of a decline with many fans believing the season's format - self-contained bottle episodes focusing on different characters in varying locations - to have brought about a dip in quality.

Regardless, The Walking Dead remains one of the boldest shows currently on television bolstered by the addition of Jeffrey Dean Morgan as the fearsome Negan.

To tide you over until the show's return in February, we've ranked all eight episodes to have aired so far from best to worst.

Beware - spoilers abound

The most shocking Walking Dead moments







8 show all The most shocking Walking Dead moments













1/8 Sophie's a walker (season 2, episode 7) Much of season two's opening half is spent looking for Sophia, the missing daughter of Carol (Melissa McBride). Turns out she was locked up in Hershel's barn as a zombie all along.

2/8 Shane reanimates without being bitten (season 2, episode 12) When Carl (Chandler Riggs) guns down a deranged Shane (Jon Bernthal) to protect his father, the shock arrives when he manifests into a walker despite not being bitten; turns out everyone's infected with the virus and will turn whichever way they die.

3/8 Axel's bullet to the eye (season 3, episode 10) A character introduced in the show's prison arc, Axel is a reformed prisoner who strikes up a friendship with Carol - until he's gunned down mid-sentence.

4/8 Carl kills Lori after she gives birth (season 3, episode 4) Lori (Sarah Wayne Callies) goes into labour at the very moment a zombie siege breaks out at the prison. Unfortunately, she doesn't make it through the procedure with her son Carl being the one to put a bullet to her head.

5/8 The Governor slays Hershel (season 4, episode 8) The Governor makes his dramatic return for a showdown at the prison after he captures Michonne (Danai Gurira) and Hershel (Scott Wilson). Rick reaches out, attempting to reason with him - but The Governor starts a war when he proceeds to decapitate poor old Hershel instead.

6/8 "Look at the flowers" (season 4, episode 14) In a standout episode from the show's fourth season, Carol is forced to take drastic measures when young teenager Lizzie murders her sister Mika in the belief that she'll live on as a zombie. Realising Lizzie's depraved mind would endanger those around her, Carol puts a gun to the young girl's head and, telling her to "look at the flowers," pulls the trigger, fighting back the tears.

7/8 Carl's bullet to the eye (season 6, episode 9) Season six returned from its mid-season break in typically dramatic fashion when an iconic moment from the graphic novels came to life: Carl takes a bullet to the eye.

8/8 Beth is killed (season 5, episode 8) Upon being kidnapped, Beth (Emily Kinney) is taken to Grady Memorial Hospital managed by Atlanta Law Enforcement. Forced to reside there against her will, the group - including Rick and Daryl (Norman Reedus) - eventually find her - only for her to be accidentally shot in the head by her captor. The worst thing? Her sister Maggie (Lauren Cohan) had just arrived outside.

1 - Hearts Still Beating, episode eight

The Walking Dead Season 7 Episode 8 - Five major talking points

The midseason finale, while heavy on the blood (R.I.P. Spencer and Olivia) was something of a departure for the series in the way it ended on a rare note of hope. The fact that this capped a devastating batch of episodes will undoubtedly permit fans to re-watch season seven's bleak first half with renewed enjoyment knowing a newly-invigorated Rick (Andrew Lincoln) will soon be sparking the wheels of war into motion.

Read our review here.

2 - The Day Will Come When You Won't Be, episode one



The most controversial episode in the series' seven-year history; the season premiere thrust you starkly into a nightmarish future under Negan's rule. The episode's gratuity was criticised upon its airing - as well as the brutal killings of Abraham (Michael Cudlitz) and Glenn (Steven Yeun), an extended sequence saw Negan almost convince Rick to chop his son's arm off - but despite this, television has never come more sobering. Perhaps not an enjoyable outing but an essential one all the same.

Read our review here.

3 - Service, episode four

The first of season seven's three feature-length episodes saw Negan bring his clan of Saviours to Alexandria. Ratcheting up the tension throughout, the hour subtly laid the groundwork for cataclysmic events to follow as well as providing several supporting characters with their best scenes yet through interplay with the big bad (here's looking at you, Father Gabriel).

Read our review here.

4 - Sing Me a Song, episode 7

This episode boasted the best opening the show may have ever seen (Carl goes full-on cowboy after machine-gunning down some Saviours), but failed to live up to those moments despite bringing fans several scenes they've been waiting for ever since they heard Negan would be appearing. Sure, the episode may not have done those moments the full justice they deserved (give 'em a re-watch - they do improve) but it certainly marked a new era for Carl, a character growing in importance with each new episode.

Read our review here.

5 - The Well, episode 2

This episode had the tough task of not only following the traumatic season premiere but introducing viewers to an entirely new world led by a king and his pet tiger. While it wasn't loaded with standout moments, the early scene showing Carol (Melissa McBride) meeting Ezekiel and Shiva will have you chortling more than anything set in the post-apocalypse ever should. A necessary breather.

Read our review here.

6 - The Cell, episode 3



This episode boldly split the majority of screen time between Negan's loyal aide, Dwight (Austin Amelio), and fan favourite, Daryl (Norman Reedus) who we saw reduced disturbingly from badass to weakened prisoner. This was also the outing that introduced us to the machinations of the Sanctuary, the Saviours' compound that'll no doubt be revisited heavily in the future. Oh, and a shoutout goes to the earworm you've probably only just got out of your head - all together now: "We're on Easy Street."

Read our review here.

7 - Swear, episode 6

Something of an odd departure for The Walking Dead, 'Swear' caught up with Tara (Alanna Masterson) and Heath (Corey Hawkins), two characters that casual fans may have struggle recalling. The writers gave the lion's share of the episode to the former who we see wash up on shore before colliding with a brand new community known as Oceanside. While failing to chart as one of the series' best instalments, it served as proof that the majority of the main cast could be dropped in favour of smaller characters with relative success.

Read our review here.

8 - The Go-Getters, episode 5

Perhaps it was the out-of-sorts character actions or the shoddy script that positions 'The Go-Getters' as one of The Walking Dead's weakest outings yet. Catching up with a grieving Maggie (Lauren Cohan) and Sasha (Sonequa Martin-Green) at the Hilltop Colony, the entire running time felt strangely as if it had been penned by someone who had been briefed on the show's happenings over a few beers down the pub. A rare blip.

Read our review here.

The Walking Dead season 7 returns internationally on 13 February - you can watch the first trailer, which teases war against Negan, here.