Pokemon Go Finally Launches In India, Reliance Jio Users To Have Extra Poke Fun!
Pokemon Go Finally Launches In India, Reliance Jio Users To Have Extra Poke Fun!
Pokemon Go Finally Launches In India, Reliance Jio Users To Have Extra Poke Fun! But no more of that jugaad, as Niantic, Inc. – publisher and developer of Pokémon Go in association with The Pokémon Company – officially launch the game in India starting tomorrow. And the studio has struck up a special partnership with Reliance Jio, as thousands of Reliance Digital Stores and select partner premises in India will appear as ‘PokéStops’ or ‘Gyms’ in the Pokemon Go game from tomorrow.

Pokemon Go was all the craze just a few months ago with everyone and their grandmum going completely bonkers playing the addictive smartphone-based, augmented reality game. And guess what? Pokemon Go will finally be available for download starting tomorrow and eager Indian fans who missed out on the action can finally get to see what the fuss is all about.

To be completely honest, a lot of Indians did partake in Pokemon Go pleasure when the game initially launched in some countries in July this year, as countless people (Indians included) downloaded Pokemon Go’s installable Android APK’s to sideload the app on their smartphones.

But no more of that jugaad, as Niantic, Inc. – publisher and developer of Pokémon Go in association with The Pokémon Company – officially launch the game in India starting tomorrow. And the studio has struck up a special partnership with Reliance Jio, as thousands of Reliance Digital Stores and select partner premises in India will appear as ‘PokéStops’ or ‘Gyms’ in the Pokemon Go game from tomorrow.

“We are delighted to partner with Jio to launch Pokemon Go in India.” said John Hanke, Chief Executive Officer and founder of Niantic, on the occasion of the highly-anticipated game’s launch in the country. “It’s exciting to see Pokemon fans in India step out and explore their neighbourhoods in search of Pokemon and Jio’s disruptive high speed 4G LTE Network will be an excellent way to experience the game.”

The two companies aim to work together to bring Indians a richer and more enjoyable mobile entertainment experience for Pokémon Go, including activating Jio retail locations and charging stations as PokéStops and Gyms within the game and allowing Indians to catch, train, and battle at any of Jio’s outlets throughout the country.

That's not all though. Reliance Jio customers, currently enjoying the service’s Happy New Year offer, have more reason to celebrate as through Jio’s social messaging app, JioChat, Pokemon players have access to an exclusive Pokemon Go Channel -- which allows gamers to form communities, exchange daily tips, apart from taking part in contests, clues, and special events. The Pokemon Go Channel on JioChat is a fun way to socialise with other players and level-up faster.

“With over 500 million downloads globally, we are excited to launch Pokémon Go officially in India on the Reliance Jio network,” said Mathew Oommen, President Reliance Jio. “Our partnership with Niantic not only brings access to the Pokémon Go app but also opens the door to more opportunities for our customers to enjoy content on Jio’s one-of-a-kind mobile broadband network.”

This is great news for starved Indian Pokemon Go players. What’s more, six months after Pokemon Go’s initial release, the game is getting a major infusion of new Pokemon, with fan favourites like Pichu and Togepi (among others) joining the roster of existing Pokemon to chase and collect. Happy hunting!