Family Spends Freezing Night in Car After GPS Directions Leave Them Stranded
Family Spends Freezing Night in Car After GPS Directions Leave Them Stranded


Nadine Ebri, a teacher at La Core Christian Elementary School in Jacksonville, Florida, taught her kids long division with a fun song.

The president stopped short of publicly connecting Putin to the Russian hacks of the DNC and John Podesta's email.

Obama: 'Not Much Happens in Russia Without Vladimir Putin'

Snow and cold temperatures stretch across the country from the Midwest to Maine.

In his end of the year press conference the President defending his actions saying to act more publicly would have politicized it.

ABC News' Political Commentator Cokie Roberts breaks down how the new information on Russian will be weighed in Senate confirmation hearings.

Adam Lethco and Matthew Porter broke out of jail on Friday morning, then went on a crime spree before police caught them after high speed chase.

Jacqueline McDonald has been flooded with calls since Cuisinart issued a major recall and the number given for customer service matches her home phone.

In the article written for the website Broadly, Knox argues that gender roles can affect the outcome of interrogations leading innocent women to confess.

ABC News' Becky Worley has all the tips to survive that last minute shopping trip.

A family traveling from Oregon to California followed the quickest route on a GPS which left them stuck on an unplowed road without cell phone service until the next morning.

A family traveling to California found themselves stuck on an unplowed, snow-covered road after following the fastest route on their GPS navigation system.

Ron Sanquist and Karen Bonell-Sanquist, their 9-year-old daughter and the family dog were en route from Oregon when they say their GPS system directed them straight through the Page Mountain Sno-Park in the state’s Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest.

The family's car became stuck in the park, an area where many roads are not plowed at this time of year.

The Sanquists had no shovel or cellphone service, with no help in sight.

View photo .

The family took shelter inside the car overnight. The next morning, Ron Sanquist hiked 2 miles to find help and call 911.

Karen Bonell-Sanquist described the situation as "pretty scary."

"Especially because to the left was a downgrade, quite a steep one," she said.

Search-and-rescue crews reached the family and helped them get back on the road. The sheriff's office issued a warning for all drivers.

"Many GPS and map systems can steer folks in the wrong direction during winter travel where conditions are poor," the Josephine County Sheriff's Office said in a statement.

The Sanquists were able to reach their final destination in California about 17 hours after their original departure.

A similar situation happened to another couple in 2013 when their GPS directed them to a snowy stretch of highway that was closed because of treacherous conditions.

The couple, Mark and Kristine Wathke, were driving from Yellowstone National Park to Miles City, Montana, when they became stuck for six days on Beartooth Highway in Cody, Wyoming.

"We never saw any road closed signs. We never saw any barricades," Kristine Wathke said in an earlier interview about their ordeal.

The Wathkes said they survived on the food they had in their car, including bread, bottled water, a half-empty jar of jelly and oatmeal packets.

The couple was rescued by a rancher who took his snowmobile out to look for the Wathkes after the rancher's wife read on Facebook that the couple was missing.