Samantha Bee has the perfect response to Ohio's anti-abortion 'heartbeat' bill
Samantha Bee has the perfect response to Ohio's anti-abortion 'heartbeat' bill
Samantha Bee has decided that, since every morning seems to bring us a "non-stop sh*t-geyser of presidential news" courtesy of Donald Trump, she wants to turn her attention to what the states are up to "while our eyes are full of feces." In Ohio, it's just a regular day of further encroaching on women's reproductive rights, thanks to a new bill that would ban abortions once a heartbeat is detected — which can be as early as six weeks. As Bee points out, "At six weeks most women won’t even know they’re pregnant — especially now, since every time we wake up and realize Trump is president, we all have morning sickness." SEE ALSO: Satanic Temple stands up to Ohio's heartbeat bill The bill has already been passed by the state's legislature, but as Bee points out, even staunch abortion opponent Gov. John Kasich has expressed concerns over whether the bill is constitutional, and has yet to sign it. "And he's right," Bee notes. "A restriction this early is about as illegal as crack." The bill is just the latest salvo in an ongoing battle against Roe v. Wade, Bee notes. “Overturning Roe has always been the pro-lifers' wet dream, and the way things are going, it’s a wet dream that may soon be required by law to have a full and dignified burial." 'Homeland' Season 6 trailer definitely hits a little too close to home Martin Sheen, Moby plead with Republican electors to dump Trump Kid's sensational Fifth Harmony lip sync would make Michelle Obama proud Would you wash your hands with leftovers from old cocktails?

Samantha Bee has decided that, since every morning seems to bring us a "non-stop sh*t-geyser of presidential news" courtesy of Donald Trump, she wants to turn her attention to what the states are up to "while our eyes are full of feces."

In Ohio, it's just a regular day of further encroaching on women's reproductive rights, thanks to a new bill that would ban abortions once a heartbeat is detected — which can be as early as six weeks.

As Bee points out, "At six weeks most women won’t even know they’re pregnant — especially now, since every time we wake up and realize Trump is president, we all have morning sickness."

The bill has already been passed by the state's legislature, but as Bee points out, even staunch abortion opponent Gov. John Kasich has expressed concerns over whether the bill is constitutional, and has yet to sign it.

"And he's right," Bee notes. "A restriction this early is about as illegal as crack."

The bill is just the latest salvo in an ongoing battle against Roe v. Wade, Bee notes. “Overturning Roe has always been the pro-lifers' wet dream, and the way things are going, it’s a wet dream that may soon be required by law to have a full and dignified burial."