How the Obamas leveraged fame to advance a political agenda
How the Obamas leveraged fame to advance a political agenda
Will the United States ever again have a president who drops the mic or a first lady who raps about going to college? Barack and Michelle Obama were arguably more conversant in popular culture than any other couple who has occupied the White House. After eight years, they have become full-fledged celebrities, warmly embraced by America’s two arbiters of modern cool: Hollywood and hip-hop. It has been a two-way street. The Obamas are lovers of pop culture and have used it to communicate in ways that are rare among political figures. They show up constantly on television, reference popular music and use artists who produce that music to promote their agenda — all while making it clear they’re in on the game. In the final summer of his administration, President Obama sat on a stool with a deadpan look on his face as he slow-jammed the news with late-night host Jimmy Fallon; it was the president’s second time doing the segment. The first lady hopped in a car with comedian James Corden for his popular “Carpool Karaoke” bit. There she rapped with Missy Elliott to a pop song recorded to support a White House initiative to boost girls’ education. Then they both sang Elliott’s hit “Get Your Freak On.” For many, the Obamas’ middle-aged hipness has been a breath of fresh air and smart politics. For others, all that exposure was unseemly and tarnished the presidency. “The president has always had an appeal beyond the political world, even back to the 2008 campaign when he was brushing his shoulders off,” said Democratic strategist Jamal Simmons. “The job description for how to attain the nation’s highest public office is similar to the job description for show business,” Simmons added. “You’ve got to hit your marks. You’ve got to be a good communicator.” Some disagreed. The first time the president slow-jammed the news he was running for reelection, and former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson said that appearing on comedy shows “lowers the status of the office.” Michelle Obama’s surprise appearance at the 2013 Academy Awards to present the Best Picture award via satellite also prompted some criticism. “She’s as glamorous as any other star, [and] she is comfortable in that role,” Anita McBride, who served as chief of staff to first lady Laura Bush and is now an executive in residence at American University, said at the time. “As far as the optics in the national conversation, you can see where the other half have come down, ‘Is this really necessary?’ ” The trendy and often trending Obamas presided over an unprecedented cultural climate change. Social media wasn’t a cultural force when they entered the White House. As they prepared to leave, it had become the arena hosting the country’s most vigorous conversations, political and otherwise. And urban culture, with its tilt toward black celebrities, dominates the national arts scene. In many ways, they have been a president and first lady suited for such a cultural moment. Theirs is one of the youngest first families in the nation’s history, and the first African American. As such, they were going to be a different kind of first family by default. Their connection to popular culture has only added another layer to that narrative of difference. Early on, Obama’s political opponents picked up on the risks of his pop-culture cachet. When his wife gave him a fist bump after he secured the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, it was pounced on by critics; a Fox News host wondered whether it was a “terrorist fist jab.” Other Americans, who recognized the fist pound from hip-hop culture, rolled their collective eyes at the negative interpretation. About that same time, Obama’s Republican rival, Sen. John McCain, ran a campaign ad called “Celeb,” branding Obama as “the biggest celebrity in the world” and comparing him to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton. The critique lingered: Do you want to talk to famous people, or do you want to solve the problems of a dangerous world? Obama and his strategists determined the question to be outdated. They thought they could leverage his fame to push their agenda. Just a few months after his inauguration, he made history as the first sitting president to appear on a late-night talk show when he went on “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” to tout his economic agenda. “You can’t just do the one print interview or the one sit-down television interview or even the one interview that’s going to be on the Web,” said Jon Lovett, a former Obama speechwriter. “You have to find people where they are, and they are getting their information from a lot of different places, including entertainment. “We as a culture have decided that we want our political figures to speak to us through not just totally dry and boring” channels, he added. “We want to get a sense of them as people through comedy shows and personal interviews, along with everything else.” Other presidents had appeared on late-night shows and comedy programs while running for office, but most stopped once they were in the Oval Office. “Sitting presidents didn’t do that,” said Robert Thompson, the founding director of the Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture at Syracuse University. Richard Nixon was helped by his appearance on “Rowan & Martin’s Laugh-In” as a candidate. Jack Kennedy went on “Tonight Starring Jack Paar” when he ran for office. Bill Clinton memorably played the sax on Arsenio Hall’s show. But other appearances on popular television were few, Thompson said. Obama kept it going because he and his team thought it played to his strengths, said Stephanie Cutter, who has been a top adviser to both of the Obamas. The late-night appearances “were incredibly effective not just in reaching people, but in communicating that then-Senator Obama was a real person and likable, and that likability and trust went a long way when things got tough, like during the financial crisis,” she said. The president has a dry wit. Michelle Obama is “just funny,” said Cutter, who helped create the first lady’s Let’s Move! program. “In terms of message delivery, you don’t always have to hit people over the head with a stick. It can come through comedy and skits, [but] not every politician or public figure has the skill set to do it.”  Michelle Obama’s East Wing office became a kind of laboratory for experimenting with new media. After her 2008 speech at the Democratic National Convention, media requests started pouring in, Cutter said, and the future first lady began to develop a media profile. She posted childhood photos on Instagram. Her number of followers there surpassed the number following the main White House account. And her staff built partnerships with Internet stars on YouTube and Vine, some of whom visited Washington to make silly videos with the first lady. “I view myself as being the average woman,” Obama told Variety this summer. “While I am first lady, I wasn’t first lady my whole life. I’m a product of pop culture. I’m a consumer of pop culture, and I know what resonates with people. I know what they’ll get a chuckle out of and what they think is kind of silly. And whenever my team approaches me with ideas and concepts, we’re usually like, ‘Is this really funny? Are people going to understand it?’ ” The president has given his wife credit for taking chances. Before he sat down with Zach Galifianakis on “Between Two Ferns” to make a pitch for young people to sign up for the Affordable Care Act, the first lady had a push-up contest with Ellen DeGeneres to promote fitness. “Michelle understood this earlier, because she had fewer resources,” the president said in the New York Times magazine this year. “You have to leverage different platforms because a fireside chat just gets lost in the noise today. People aren’t part of one conversation; they’re part of a million. You’re drawing on where the culture is to get the message out.” Often, the television hosts and celebrities who helped the Obamas push their policy and political messages received invitations to White House parties that became the talk of the town. DeGeneres attended several, as did Beyoncé, her husband Jay Z and the actor Tom Hanks. At the president’s 50th birthday party, which was held at the executive mansion, they danced alongside government officials, including Vice President Biden and then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner.  “I felt like I died and went to black heaven,” comedian Chris Rock said of that party. Rock recounted the experience in a stand-up routine: As the party went on, he said, the music got “blacker and blacker.” The DJ played Beyoncé’s “Crazy in Love,” and Malia and Sasha started dancing, he said. “They came from out of nowhere and . . . started doing the Dougie.” Partying with celebs reinforced the Obamas’ pop culture cachet, and their manner of communicating with the country changed expectations for how a president and first lady should behave, said Amanda Miller Littlejohn, a public relations and personal branding consultant. “You saw the White House in the past as being this untouchable, unrelatable institution,” Miller Littlejohn said, adding that pop culture and the presidency may now be permanently linked. The 2016 race for president, too, reflected this. The winner, Donald Trump, was aided by his past as a reality television star. Media critics said his political rise was due, in part, to his ability to dominate the pop-culture conversation. #ThanksObama. Barack Obama’s watershed 2008 election and the presidency that followed profoundly altered the aesthetics of American democracy, transforming the Founding Fathers’ narrow vision of politics and citizenship into something more expansive and more elegant. The American presidency suddenly looked very different, and for a moment America felt different, too. The Obama victory helped fulfill one of the great ambitions of the civil rights struggle by showcasing the ability of extraordinarily talented black Americans to lead and excel in all facets of American life. First lady Michelle Obama, and daughters Sasha and Malia, extended this reimagining of black American life by providing a conspicuous vision of a healthy, loving and thriving African American family that defies still-prevalent racist stereotypes. But some interpreted Obama’s triumph as much more. The victory was heralded as the arrival of a “post-racial” America, one in which the nation’s original sin of racial slavery and post-Reconstruction Jim Crow discrimination had finally been absolved by the election of a black man as commander in chief. For a while, the nation basked in a racially harmonious afterglow. A black president would influence generations of young children to embrace a new vision of American citizenship. The “Obama Coalition” of African American, white, Latino, Asian American and Native American voters had helped usher in an era in which institutional racism and pervasive inequality would fade as Americans embraced the nation’s multicultural promise. Seven years later, such profound optimism seems misplaced. Almost immediately, the Obama presidency unleashed racial furies that have only multiplied over time. From the tea party’s racially tinged attacks on the president’s policy agenda to the “birther” movement’s more overtly racist fantasies asserting that Obama was not even an American citizen, the national racial climate grew more, and not less, fraught. If racial conflict, in the form of birthers, tea partyers and gnawing resentments, implicitly shadowed Obama’s first term, it erupted into open warfare during much of his second. The Supreme Court’s 2013 decision in the case gutted Voting Rights Act enforcement, throwing into question the signal achievement of the civil rights movement’s heroic period. Beginning with the 2012 shooting death of black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida, the nation reopened an intense debate on the continued horror of institutional racism evidenced by a string of high-profile deaths of black men, women, boys and girls at the hands of law enforcement. The organized demonstrations, protests and outrage of a new generation of civil rights activists turned the hashtag #BlackLivesMatter into the clarion call for a new social justice movement. Black Lives Matter activists have forcefully argued that the U.S. criminal justice system represents a gateway to racial oppression, one marked by a drug war that disproportionately targets, punishes and warehouses young men and women of color. In her bestselling book “ The New Jim Crow ,” legal scholar Michelle Alexander argued that mass incarceration represents a racial caste system that echoes the pervasive, structural inequality of a system of racial apartheid that persists. Obama’s first-term caution on race matters was punctured by his controversial remarks that police “acted stupidly” in the mistaken identity arrest of Henry Louis Gates Jr., Harvard University’s prominent African American studies professor, in 2009. Four years later he entered the breach once more by proclaiming that if he had a son, “he’d look like Trayvon.” In the aftermath of racial unrest in Ferguson, Mo., and Baltimore, and a racially motivated massacre in Charleston, S.C., Obama went further. In 2015, Obama found his voice in a series of stirring speeches in Selma, Ala., and Charleston, where he acknowledged America’s long and continuous history of racial injustice. Policy-wise Obama has launched a private philanthropic effort, My Brother’s Keeper, designed to assist low-income black boys, and became the first president to visit a federal prison in a call for prison reform that foreshadowed the administration’s efforts to release federal inmates facing long sentences on relatively minor drug charges. Despite these efforts, many of Obama’s African American supporters have expressed profound disappointment over the president’s refusal to forcefully pursue racial and economic justice policies for his most loyal political constituency. From this perspective, the Obama presidency has played out as a cruel joke on members of the African American community who, despite providing indispensable votes, critical support and unstinting loyalty, find themselves largely shut out from the nation’s post-Great Recession economic recovery. Blacks have, critics suggested, traded away substantive policy demands for the largely symbolic psychological and emotional victory of having a black president and first family in the White House for eight years. Others find that assessment harsh, noting that Obama’s most impressive policy achievements have received scant promotion from the White House or acknowledgment in the mainstream media. History will decide the full measure of the importance, success, failures and shortcomings of the Obama presidency. With regard to race, Obama’s historical significance is ensured; only his impact and legacy are up for debate. In retrospect, the burden of transforming America’s tortured racial history in two four-year presidential terms proved impossible, even as its promise helped to catapult Obama to the nation’s highest office. Obama’s presidency elides important aspects of the civil rights struggle, especially the teachings of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. King, for a time, served as the racial justice consciousness for two presidents — John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. Many who hoped Obama might be able to serve both roles — as president and racial justice advocate — have been disappointed. Yet there is a revelatory clarity in that disappointment, proving that Obama is not King or Frederick Douglass, but Abraham Lincoln, Kennedy and Johnson. Even a black president, perhaps especially a black president, could not untangle racism’s Gordian knot on the body politic. Yet in acknowledging the limitations of Obama’s presidency on healing racial divisions and the shortcomings of his policies in uplifting black America, we may reach a newfound political maturity that recognizes that no one person — no matter how powerful — can single-handedly rectify structures of inequality constructed over centuries.

From cameos to magazine covers and the talk show circuit, first lady Michelle Obama made a lasting mark on American pop culture. Here are some of her most memorable moments. (Claritza Jimenez,Julio Negron/The Washington Post)

Will the United States ever again have a president who drops the mic or a first lady who raps about going to college?

Barack and Michelle Obama were arguably more conversant in popular culture than any other couple who has occupied the White House. After eight years, they have become full-fledged celebrities, warmly embraced by America’s two arbiters of modern cool: Hollywood and hip-hop.

It has been a two-way street.

The Obamas are lovers of pop culture and have used it to communicate in ways that are rare among political figures.

They show up constantly on television, reference popular music and use artists who produce that music to promote their agenda — all while making it clear they’re in on the game.

In the final summer of his administration, President Obama sat on a stool with a deadpan look on his face as he slow-jammed the news with late-night host Jimmy Fallon; it was the president’s second time doing the segment.

The first lady hopped in a car with comedian James Corden for his popular “Carpool Karaoke” bit. There she rapped with Missy Elliott to a pop song recorded to support a White House initiative to boost girls’ education. Then they both sang Elliott’s hit “Get Your Freak On.”

For many, the Obamas’ middle-aged hipness has been a breath of fresh air and smart politics. For others, all that exposure was unseemly and tarnished the presidency.

“The president has always had an appeal beyond the political world, even back to the 2008 campaign when he was brushing his shoulders off,” said Democratic strategist Jamal Simmons.

“The job description for how to attain the nation’s highest public office is similar to the job description for show business,” Simmons added. “You’ve got to hit your marks. You’ve got to be a good communicator.”

Some disagreed. The first time the president slow-jammed the news he was running for reelection, and former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson said that appearing on comedy shows “lowers the status of the office.”

Michelle Obama’s surprise appearance at the 2013 Academy Awards to present the Best Picture award via satellite also prompted some criticism.

“She’s as glamorous as any other star, [and] she is comfortable in that role,” Anita McBride, who served as chief of staff to first lady Laura Bush and is now an executive in residence at American University, said at the time. “As far as the optics in the national conversation, you can see where the other half have come down, ‘Is this really necessary?’ ”

Playing to their strengths

The trendy and often trending Obamas presided over an unprecedented cultural climate change. Social media wasn’t a cultural force when they entered the White House. As they prepared to leave, it had become the arena hosting the country’s most vigorous conversations, political and otherwise. And urban culture, with its tilt toward black celebrities, dominates the national arts scene.

In many ways, they have been a president and first lady suited for such a cultural moment. Theirs is one of the youngest first families in the nation’s history, and the first African American. As such, they were going to be a different kind of first family by default. Their connection to popular culture has only added another layer to that narrative of difference.

Early on, Obama’s political opponents picked up on the risks of his pop-culture cachet. When his wife gave him a fist bump after he secured the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, it was pounced on by critics; a Fox News host wondered whether it was a “terrorist fist jab.” Other Americans, who recognized the fist pound from hip-hop culture, rolled their collective eyes at the negative interpretation.

About that same time, Obama’s Republican rival, Sen. John McCain, ran a campaign ad called “Celeb,” branding Obama as “the biggest celebrity in the world” and comparing him to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton. The critique lingered: Do you want to talk to famous people, or do you want to solve the problems of a dangerous world?

Obama and his strategists determined the question to be outdated. They thought they could leverage his fame to push their agenda. Just a few months after his inauguration, he made history as the first sitting president to appear on a late-night talk show when he went on “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” to tout his economic agenda.

“You can’t just do the one print interview or the one sit-down television interview or even the one interview that’s going to be on the Web,” said Jon Lovett, a former Obama speechwriter. “You have to find people where they are, and they are getting their information from a lot of different places, including entertainment.

From the archives Here’s how the first president of the social media age has chosen to connect with Americans The White House has become its own digital production company.

“We as a culture have decided that we want our political figures to speak to us through not just totally dry and boring” channels, he added. “We want to get a sense of them as people through comedy shows and personal interviews, along with everything else.”

Other presidents had appeared on late-night shows and comedy programs while running for office, but most stopped once they were in the Oval Office.

“Sitting presidents didn’t do that,” said Robert Thompson, the founding director of the Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture at Syracuse University.

Richard Nixon was helped by his appearance on “Rowan & Martin’s Laugh-In” as a candidate. Jack Kennedy went on “Tonight Starring Jack Paar” when he ran for office. Bill Clinton memorably played the sax on Arsenio Hall’s show. But other appearances on popular television were few, Thompson said.

Obama kept it going because he and his team thought it played to his strengths, said Stephanie Cutter, who has been a top adviser to both of the Obamas. The late-night appearances “were incredibly effective not just in reaching people, but in communicating that then-Senator Obama was a real person and likable, and that likability and trust went a long way when things got tough, like during the financial crisis,” she said.

The president has a dry wit. Michelle Obama is “just funny,” said Cutter, who helped create the first lady’s Let’s Move! program.

“In terms of message delivery, you don’t always have to hit people over the head with a stick. It can come through comedy and skits, [but] not every politician or public figure has the skill set to do it.”

Experimenting with media

Michelle Obama’s East Wing office became a kind of laboratory for experimenting with new media.

After her 2008 speech at the Democratic National Convention, media requests started pouring in, Cutter said, and the future first lady began to develop a media profile.

She posted childhood photos on Instagram. Her number of followers there surpassed the number following the main White House account. And her staff built partnerships with Internet stars on YouTube and Vine, some of whom visited Washington to make silly videos with the first lady.

“I view myself as being the average woman,” Obama told Variety this summer. “While I am first lady, I wasn’t first lady my whole life. I’m a product of pop culture. I’m a consumer of pop culture, and I know what resonates with people. I know what they’ll get a chuckle out of and what they think is kind of silly. And whenever my team approaches me with ideas and concepts, we’re usually like, ‘Is this really funny? Are people going to understand it?’ ”

The president has given his wife credit for taking chances. Before he sat down with Zach Galifianakis on “Between Two Ferns” to make a pitch for young people to sign up for the Affordable Care Act, the first lady had a push-up contest with Ellen DeGeneres to promote fitness.

“Michelle understood this earlier, because she had fewer resources,” the president said in the New York Times magazine this year. “You have to leverage different platforms because a fireside chat just gets lost in the noise today. People aren’t part of one conversation; they’re part of a million. You’re drawing on where the culture is to get the message out.”

Often, the television hosts and celebrities who helped the Obamas push their policy and political messages received invitations to White House parties that became the talk of the town. DeGeneres attended several, as did Beyoncé, her husband Jay Z and the actor Tom Hanks. At the president’s 50th birthday party, which was held at the executive mansion, they danced alongside government officials, including Vice President Biden and then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner.

From the archives Has there been an ‘Obama effect’ in Hollywood? Hollywood, representation and the Obamas.

“I felt like I died and went to black heaven,” comedian Chris Rock said of that party. Rock recounted the experience in a stand-up routine: As the party went on, he said, the music got “blacker and blacker.” The DJ played Beyoncé’s “Crazy in Love,” and Malia and Sasha started dancing, he said. “They came from out of nowhere and . . . started doing the Dougie.”

Partying with celebs reinforced the Obamas’ pop culture cachet, and their manner of communicating with the country changed expectations for how a president and first lady should behave, said Amanda Miller Littlejohn, a public relations and personal branding consultant.

“You saw the White House in the past as being this untouchable, unrelatable institution,” Miller Littlejohn said, adding that pop culture and the presidency may now be permanently linked.

The 2016 race for president, too, reflected this. The winner, Donald Trump, was aided by his past as a reality television star. Media critics said his political rise was due, in part, to his ability to dominate the pop-culture conversation.

#ThanksObama.