Ring In the Holidays With Live Performances From 'Drag Race' Royalty: Watch
Ring In the Holidays With Live Performances From 'Drag Race' Royalty: Watch
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Ring In the Holidays With Live Performances From 'Drag Race' Royalty: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In the midst of the Christmas Queens' holiday tour -- which recently stunned in New York City -- several alumni from are performing a seasonal gig Tuesday (Dec. 13) night in Los Angeles, and Billboard has the live stream below to help you get in the holiday spirit.  The evening boasts performances from Alaska, Sharon Needles, Ginger Minj, Jaremi Carey (Phi Phi O'Hara) and Willam, with Mario Jose opening. In the spirit of giving, the show is raising money for the Human Rights Campaign's efforts to advance worldwide LGBTQ equality. You can donate here. Watch Producer Entertainment Group (PEG) and the Human Rights Campaign's A Royal Holiday live stream below. Performances from the Christmas Queens start at 7 p.m. PT. Producer Entertainment Group’s recent album, debuted at No. 2 on the Comedy Albums chart earlier this month, matching the bow and peak of its predecessor, 2015’s . The new set boasts seasonal tunes from royalty like Alaska, Michelle Visage and Sharon Needles. Tickets for Christmas Queens live shows this week in Chicago, Austin and L.A. are available here. A number of the evening’s performers have left their mark on Billboard’s charts, including Alaska, whose latest album, , launched at No. 4 on the Dance/Electronic Albums chart (following her debut, , which hit No. 3 in 2015). Needles’ newest set, , hit No. 11 in back in 2015, while Willam saw his album top the Comedy Albums list in 2015.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In the midst of the Christmas Queens' holiday tour -- which recently stunned in New York City -- several alumni from RuPaul's Drag Race are performing a seasonal gig Tuesday (Dec. 13) night in Los Angeles, and Billboard has the live stream below to help you get in the holiday spirit.

The evening boasts performances from Alaska, Sharon Needles, Ginger Minj, Jaremi Carey (Phi Phi O'Hara) and Willam, with Mario Jose opening. In the spirit of giving, the show is raising money for the Human Rights Campaign's efforts to advance worldwide LGBTQ equality. You can donate here.

Watch Producer Entertainment Group (PEG) and the Human Rights Campaign's A Royal Holiday live stream below. Performances from the Christmas Queens start at 7 p.m. PT.

Producer Entertainment Group’s recent album, Christmas Queens 2, debuted at No. 2 on the Comedy Albums chart earlier this month, matching the bow and peak of its predecessor, 2015’s Christmas Queens. The new set boasts seasonal tunes from RuPaul’s Drag Race royalty like Alaska, Michelle Visage and Sharon Needles. Tickets for Christmas Queens live shows this week in Chicago, Austin and L.A. are available here.

A number of the evening’s performers have left their mark on Billboard’s charts, including Alaska, whose latest album, Poundcake, launched at No. 4 on the Dance/Electronic Albums chart (following her debut, Anus, which hit No. 3 in 2015). Needles’ newest set, Taxidermy, hit No. 11 in back in 2015, while Willam saw his Shartistry in Motion album top the Comedy Albums list in 2015.