ASAP Ferg On Kanye West And Donald Trump Meeting: "Ye Is Strategic Not Dumb"
ASAP Ferg On Kanye West And Donald Trump Meeting: "Ye Is Strategic Not Dumb"
Unlike the internet, ASAP Ferg isn’t mad about the Kanye West and Donald Trump meeting . In fact, he insists it was the right thing to do. On Tuesday morning, West visited Trump Tower to reportedly discuss “life,” “'multicultural issues,” and Chicago violence with the president-elect. The news, though unsurprising, upset a good chunk of the Twittershpere , with many claiming it was a stunt to distract from several Trump controversies: The recent allegations that Russia interfered with the presidential election and Trump’s decision to name Exxon Mobile CEO Rex Tillerson as the Secretary of State . A number of people also condemned West for continuing a supposed friendship with Trump, who has been accused of racism and bigotry throughout the presidential race; however, Ferg isn’t one of those critics. Hours after the meeting took place, Ferg went to Twitter to share his thoughts on the matter, explaining it was a “smart” move for West. i think @kanyewest is smarter than we think he is , he's getting closer to trump so he can get more insight of his plans!!! ur take ? @ASAPferg  @kanyewest friends close enemies closer, also sometimes you gotta talk some sense into people Most def https://t.co/tLMLYsWfqr I just dont trust it. https://t.co/vouOT0Dzvs U never know what a conversation can do https://t.co/iYhMyNIRLi I think @kanyewest was right today for meeting up with trump !!! You need to know where this man head is at !!! He rules your nation Y'all can free to think whatever y'all want about trump or @Kanye I was just giving you my take on it. Ye is strategic not dumb Y'all ain't never seen me tweet about Ye .Ye or trump don't pay my bills i never was one to kiss ass I'm just giving a opinion! https://t.co/LpWcvNoxGY During a Saint Pablo show in November, West announced he did not vote in the 2016 presidential election, but if he had, he would've voted for Trump . Days after the controversial statement, West was admitted into UCLA Medical Center for observation; one source said he was hospitalized for "exhaustion," while another claimed he had suffered a "mental breakdown."

Unlike the internet, ASAP Ferg isn’t mad about the Kanye West and Donald Trump meeting. In fact, he insists it was the right thing to do.

On Tuesday morning, West visited Trump Tower to reportedly discuss “life,” “'multicultural issues,” and Chicago violence with the president-elect. The news, though unsurprising, upset a good chunk of the Twittershpere, with many claiming it was a stunt to distract from several Trump controversies: The recent allegations that Russia interfered with the presidential election and Trump’s decision to name Exxon Mobile CEO Rex Tillerson as the Secretary of State. A number of people also condemned West for continuing a supposed friendship with Trump, who has been accused of racism and bigotry throughout the presidential race; however, Ferg isn’t one of those critics.

Hours after the meeting took place, Ferg went to Twitter to share his thoughts on the matter, explaining it was a “smart” move for West.

i think @kanyewest is smarter than we think he is , he's getting closer to trump so he can get more insight of his plans!!! ur take ? — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

@ASAPferg @kanyewest friends close enemies closer, also sometimes you gotta talk some sense into people — dionysys (@dionysys_) December 13, 2016

I just dont trust it. https://t.co/vouOT0Dzvs — Meaux La $oule (@MillzyTheGod) December 13, 2016

U never know what a conversation can do https://t.co/iYhMyNIRLi — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

I think @kanyewest was right today for meeting up with trump !!! You need to know where this man head is at !!! He rules your nation — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

Y'all can free to think whatever y'all want about trump or @Kanye I was just giving you my take on it. — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

Ye is strategic not dumb — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

Y'all ain't never seen me tweet about Ye .Ye or trump don't pay my bills i never was one to kiss ass I'm just giving a opinion! https://t.co/LpWcvNoxGY — FERG (@ASAPferg) December 13, 2016

During a Saint Pablo show in November, West announced he did not vote in the 2016 presidential election, but if he had, he would've voted for Trump. Days after the controversial statement, West was admitted into UCLA Medical Center for observation; one source said he was hospitalized for "exhaustion," while another claimed he had suffered a "mental breakdown."