Taxpayers foot £50m bill for Southern rail strike chaos as ministers prepare to tighten law
Taxpayers foot £50m bill for Southern rail strike chaos as ministers prepare to tighten law
axpayers are footing a £50 million bill for the biggest series of rail strikes in a generation , while the company in charge of the train line stands to save money, it has emerged. The walkout by drivers and conductors on the Southern Rail line led to trains being cancelled for 300,000 commuters in the South East on Tuesday, prompting ministers to indicate that they are prepared to strengthen anti-strike laws. t has emerged that, because of a deal struck with Southern by the Government, the cost of the disruption will be borne by the taxpayer. nder the terms of the deal, t he Government will pick up the tab for a £38 million fall in fare revenue and will pay out up to £15 million in compensation to passengers. Meanwhile, Govia Thameslink Railway, the company that runs Southern, is saving an estimated £1.1 million in pay for train drivers and conductors who are out on strike this week. Chris Grayling, the Transport Secretary, suggested that action could be taken to limit strikes by rail workers after the walkout caused chaos for commuters. r Grayling said that he would take a “careful look” at strike laws after the industrial dispute ends. “We can’t leave our railways exposed,” he said. Nick Herbert, the Conservative MP for Arundel and South Downs and a former minister, said:  “Because of the way the franchise is structured, there isn’t proper accountability. It should be the company bearing the cost of compensation and failure to meet targets. "Whilst I am certain it is the unions that are currently causing most of the problems, there are separate underlying issues with the franchise.” he disclosure was made amid growing concern that unions are using coordinated action as part of a political  campaign against the Conservative government. There are also fears over unofficial strike action involving workers on the railways and in other sectors who are calling in sick and working to rule in an attempt to cause disruption. The strike by Aslef, the train drivers' union, and the RMT, which represents conductors, crippled more than 400 miles of track and 156 stations throughout Sussex, Surrey, Kent and other home counties. The industrial action will continue on Wednesday and on Friday and is due to be followed by a wave of further industrial action in the run-up to Christmas and the New Year. ndustrial action by rail unions, delivery drivers and Post Office workers has been announced in the run-up to Christmas. The Southern dispute centres on plans by the rail company to extend the use of driver-only operated trains, which unions claim will reduce the safety role that conductors play. Those claims have been disputed by Her Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Railways and the Rail Accident Investigations Branch. Members of the public vented their anger online, describing how the rail strike had led to them losing pay, juggling childcare and missing the chance to read bedtime stories with their children. ut it is taxpayers who will foot the bill for the cost of the strikes due to Govia’s unique deal with the Government. Under the seven-year deal, the Government pays Govia more than £1 billion a year to run the service. Ministers agreed to bear the financial risk of running the railway because of the significant disruption caused by the redevelopment of London Bridge station. In return, the fees that Southern collects in fares are passed to the Government. t means that during the 20 days lost to strikes this year – when there are no fares to collect – the Government must bear the cost of £38 million in lost revenue. The deal also states that the Government will pick up the tab for compensation claims likely to be filed by passengers who have paid season ticket fares but have no services to catch – an estimated £15 million. ovia could also make significant savings in pay from drivers and conductors who are on strike. According to industry estimates, 600 drivers a day are taking part in the strikes this week, forgoing about £246,000 in earnings. A further 300 conductors have been on strike for about 20 days, foregoing about £900,000 worth of earnings. Govia could still be hit with financial penalties totalling tens of millions of pounds for delayed and cancelled services. However, it is claiming that disruption caused by strikes and staff sickness is a force majeure and it should therefore not have to pay the fines. spokesman for Govia Thameslink said: “The nature of the contract was determined by the Government to reflect the unusual nature of the franchise during a period when engineering works meant future revenues were very hard to forecast.” Mr Grayling refused to rule out stripping Govia of the franchise after months of disruption for passengers caused by industrial action and high levels of staff sickness. The Prime Minister’s spokesman said that the Government’s priority was dealing with the “misery” facing commuters, but refused to rule out tougher anti-strike laws. Unions will today hold talks with rail bosses at Acas, the conciliation service, in an effort to end the industrial action.

Under the terms of the deal, the Government will pick up the tab for a £38 million fall in fare revenue and will pay out up to £15 million in compensation to passengers.

Meanwhile, Govia Thameslink Railway, the company that runs Southern, is saving an estimated £1.1 million in pay for train drivers and conductors who are out on strike this week.

Chris Grayling, the Transport Secretary, suggested that action could be taken to limit strikes by rail workers after the walkout caused chaos for commuters.