'Growing Pains' star Alan Thicke dies at 69
'Growing Pains' star Alan Thicke dies at 69
Alan Thicke, who rose to stardom on the popular sitcom , has died at age 69. "Alan's sudden passing has been confirmed," a publicist for the actor told . "At present, we have no further details. We appreciate your interest and when we have additional information, we will make it available." The death was first reported by TMZ . Later, a publicist for the actor's son told the Associated Press that Thicke died of a heart attack in Los Angeles. Thicke most recently appeared on on Netflix and NBC's . Several celebrities mourned his passing on social media, including Bob Saget, whom Thicke gave a shoutout to on Twitter just hours before his passing. So sad is the passing of Alan Thicke. Such a good husband, father, brother, and friend. He will be deeply missed. Rest in peace dear Alan. — bob saget (@bobsaget) December 14, 2016 America loved Alan Thicke. I'm so sad he's gone. Sending so much love to his family. — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) December 14, 2016 I'm shocked to hear about Allan Thicke. He was a good man who gave me some big breaks in my early days. I'll miss you buddy. — Howie Mandel (@howiemandel) December 14, 2016 Alan Thicke was always the nicest and happiest person in the room. Gone way too soon. Rest In Peace. — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) December 14, 2016 RIP Alan Thicke. We skated side by side for years. Say hello to Gordie and The Rocket for me. Our Canadian Mounties sketch @jimmykimmel  pic.twitter.com/YE5SiFRtsf — Dave Coulier (@DaveCoulier) December 14, 2016 I'm sad beyond words that Alan Thicke has passed away. I've known you since I was 8 years old… https://t.co/GLXSTK1nd7 — Candace Cameron Bure (@candacecbure) December 14, 2016 sad to learn of Alan Thicke's passing. he was a great friend over the years. thoughts & prayers to his family. — Ryan Seacrest (@RyanSeacrest) December 14, 2016 Saddened over the loss of my friend Alan. Condolences to his family. — William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) December 14, 2016 Thicke was not only an actor, but a composer too, writing the theme songs for and . He also hosted a late-night talk show, , for one season starting in 1983. Born in Ontario in 1947, Thicke got his start as a Canadian talk show host. Recently, his son, Robin Thicke, had gained fame as a pop star. Starring as the Seaver Family on ABC Television's show "Growing Pains" left to right are: Kirk Cameron as Mike, Joanna Kerns as Maggie, Jeremy Miller as Ben, Alan Thicke as Jason and Elizabeth Ward as Carol. Photo taken May 1985. Image:  AP

Alan Thicke, who rose to stardom on the popular sitcom Growing Pains, has died at age 69.

"Alan's sudden passing has been confirmed," a publicist for the actor told Mashable. "At present, we have no further details. We appreciate your interest and when we have additional information, we will make it available."

The death was first reported by TMZ. Later, a publicist for the actor's son told the Associated Press that Thicke died of a heart attack in Los Angeles.

Thicke most recently appeared on Fuller House on Netflix and NBC's This Is Us.

Several celebrities mourned his passing on social media, including Bob Saget, whom Thicke gave a shoutout to on Twitter just hours before his passing.

So sad is the passing of Alan Thicke. Such a good husband, father, brother, and friend. He will be deeply missed. Rest in peace dear Alan. — bob saget (@bobsaget) December 14, 2016

America loved Alan Thicke. I'm so sad he's gone. Sending so much love to his family. — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) December 14, 2016

I'm shocked to hear about Allan Thicke. He was a good man who gave me some big breaks in my early days. I'll miss you buddy. — Howie Mandel (@howiemandel) December 14, 2016

Alan Thicke was always the nicest and happiest person in the room. Gone way too soon. Rest In Peace. — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) December 14, 2016

RIP Alan Thicke. We skated side by side for years. Say hello to Gordie and The Rocket for me. Our Canadian Mounties sketch @jimmykimmel pic.twitter.com/YE5SiFRtsf — Dave Coulier (@DaveCoulier) December 14, 2016

I'm sad beyond words that Alan Thicke has passed away. I've known you since I was 8 years old… https://t.co/GLXSTK1nd7 — Candace Cameron Bure (@candacecbure) December 14, 2016

sad to learn of Alan Thicke's passing. he was a great friend over the years. thoughts & prayers to his family. — Ryan Seacrest (@RyanSeacrest) December 14, 2016

Saddened over the loss of my friend Alan. Condolences to his family. — William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) December 14, 2016

Thicke was not only an actor, but a composer too, writing the theme songs for Diff’rent Strokes and The Facts of Life. He also hosted a late-night talk show, Thicke of the Night, for one season starting in 1983.

Born in Ontario in 1947, Thicke got his start as a Canadian talk show host. Recently, his son, Robin Thicke, had gained fame as a pop star.