Federal Reserve meeting likely to move markets despite almost certain rate rise



Federal Reserve meeting likely to move markets despite almost certain rate rise

Updated

US baseballer Yogi Berra, famous for his unintentional witticisms, once said, "It's tough to make predictions, especially about the future."

But his gem of wisdom does not apply to this week's US Federal Reserve rate setting meeting.

Markets have priced in at least a 97 per cent near-certainty of interest rates being lifted by the Fed's Open Market Committee (FOMC) when it finishes its two-day meeting tonight.

So certain are traders of the rate rise that IG's head of research, Chris Weston, is warning of market carnage if the Fed disappoints.

"If they don't raise rates then there'd be an absolute collapse in markets, I think there'd be pandemonium," he said.

But the certainty around the outcome does not make the meeting less important for traders.

The December meeting includes a quarterly press conference from Fed chair Janet Yellen post-meeting, and also a closely watched "dot plot" projection from FOMC members on where they see interest rates heading over the next couple of years.

"There is a belief by some people in the markets that they could increase their projections for where the Fed funds rate or the interest rate will be by the end of 2018 and going up from 1.87 per cent perhaps as high as 2.125 per cent, so one extra rate hike," Mr Weston explained.

If that happens, Mr Weston predicts markets will move.

"You could see a bit of a sell-off in fixed income, you could see the US dollar rally a little bit and equities may struggle, find some sellers coming through," he tipped.

Axi Trader chief market strategist Greg McKenna said the dot plot has outlived its usefulness, with less need for forward guidance from the Fed now that the US economy and global financial markets have stabilised somewhat.

"My personal view is the dot-plot should go. It was an emergency measure no longer necessary. But that might be a shock to markets so it will probably stay," he wrote in a note.

"It all means that what Fed chair Yellen says in her press conference which will be the key."

However, Mr Weston does not think Janet Yellen will say a lot at this stage.

"They're not going to start pencilling in the idea of Donald Trump's successful policies having a big boost to growth just yet," he said.

"I think that potentially comes through in the March meeting next year."

That leaves most analysts, including JP Morgan Australia's chief economist Sally Auld, expecting the Fed to stick with a slow and steady approach to lifting rates, at least according to the December dot plot.

"The Fed, as their forecasts stand today, is looking for two more hikes, after this one, in 2017 and the market has largely priced that outcome," she told the ABC's Business PM program.

Fed could surprise markets, and itself, with extra rate rises

But Yogi Berra's comment about the difficulty of predicting the future becomes more apt the further ahead you look.

In 2015, for instance, most analysts expected many more rate rises in 2016 rather than just one at the end of the year.

Mr Weston said there is a chance that the Fed could surprise with extra rate rises next year if "Trumponomics" takes off and kick-starts inflation.

That is because the FOMC majority have taken a very cautious approach to lifting interest rates.

"They are going to allow the US economy to overheat and, therefore, have to be more aggressive with tightening down the line," he said.

"Most strategists would expect two rate hikes next year, perhaps somewhere around the mid-point and then probably another one at the December meeting, but the risks, I personally think, are to the upside."

More US rate rises could be Australia's best economic boost

That may be a good thing for Australia.

Sally Auld said it could be the more the merrier when it comes to US rate increases, especially if the Reserve Bank moves the other way.

"We have this ongoing desynchronisation between the Australian economy and the US economy where, in the US the central bank is lifting rates, in Australia we think there's a good chance the RBA will be cutting rates next year," she observed.

"What that probably tells you, is that as that interest differential narrows that should actually help to drag the currency lower over the course of next year."

That in turn could finally drag Australia's non-mining economy firmly out of its doldrums.

One mechanism that would really help us finish off this transition from an economy that was very mining centic to an economy that's less mining centric would be if the dollar just fell another 5-7 per cent maybe down to the high-60s [US cents]," Dr Auld said.

"That would really help the net services exports story and it would just help that final pivot of domestic demand towards domestically produced goods and services."

A falling currency would also assist the Reserve Bank's efforts to lift persistently low inflation.

"We'd start to see a little bit more imported inflation, helping to get both those measures of headline and core inflation back to target," Dr Auld added.

Australian home owners threatened by Fed moves

But rising US, and therefore global, interest rates are not all good news for Australia's economy, especially for home owners and property investors.

"If yields keep going up the banks are going to pass that on," warned Mr Weston.

"We're going to see mortgage rates going up and I'm not necessarily so sure that most households who have leveraged themselves up so significantly, with the household debt to GDP ratio above 120 per cent, [are prepared].

"That's going to be a significant tightening of financial conditions in the Australian economy at a time when we're seeing clear vulnerabilities coming through."

Not that a modest increase in mortgage interest rates would necessarily go astray, from the Reserve Bank's perspective.

"A little bit of a repricing of the price of credit for housing would probably not be a bad thing," Dr Auld said.

"But if it started to shift overall financial conditions in a direction that wasn't sympathetic with where they want the economy to be and where they want the inflation story to be ... certainly a bigger repricing of bank mortgage books would certainly be in the column that favours a lower cash rate next year."

The key takeaway is that, despite sitting all the way across the Pacific Ocean from the US, Australians should strap themselves in, because, like it or not, they are going along for a ride with the Donald.

Topics: money-and-monetary-policy, stockmarket, currency, futures, markets, economic-trends, united-states, australia

First posted