Sight of plane circling Manhattan causes stir on social media
Sight of plane circling Manhattan causes stir on social media
Tweet     Stumble     Email  People on social media were in a frenzy Monday afternoon at the sight of a plane appearing to be circling Manhattan. “This plane that’s been circling over (sic) manhattan is starting to freak me out,” one social media user wrote. This plane that's been circling over manhattan is starting to freak me out. pic.twitter.com/L1EcBYOgpr Many others took to social media to question why the plane was circling. A video of the plane that's been circling Manhattan pic.twitter.com/Bsj5ANEeW1 @Gothamist what is this plane circling the city for an hour?! #nyc  #plane  pic.twitter.com/L1bFMYSugB What's happening? I was asking myself the same thing! Military looking plane circling Manhattan?! pic.twitter.com/0D5HKYNGHj Other social media users pointed out the plane seemed to be a C130, a military aircraft. There's a C130 circling Midtown and the R&T/Pop Mech office is enthralled pic.twitter.com/BLeZYepCiv C130 and 2 Appachie Helicopters circling Manhattan right now pic.twitter.com/Ikb2YNv4QJ A Washington Post reporter said on Twitter that Col. Broccoli of the 106th Rescue Wing said the C130 was doing “standard military training,” and it was cleared by the FAA. Col. Broccoli, CO of the 106th Rescue Wing says the C130 circling Manhattan is doing "standard military training." However, Eric Durr, Director of Public Affairs at New York State Division of Military and Naval Affairs, told Mashable the plane was an HC-130, a search and rescue aircraft. The FAA said in a statement to Buzzfeed News that the plane was conducting an authorized flight over New York City. And here's the statement from the FAA pic.twitter.com/yYbFYU5cEY The 106th Rescue Wing did not immediately respond to CBS News for a request for comment.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

People on social media were in a frenzy Monday afternoon at the sight of a plane appearing to be circling Manhattan.

“This plane that’s been circling over (sic) manhattan is starting to freak me out,” one social media user wrote.

This plane that's been circling over manhattan is starting to freak me out. pic.twitter.com/L1EcBYOgpr — jon rubino (@OkFineItsMe) December 13, 2016

Many others took to social media to question why the plane was circling.

A video of the plane that's been circling Manhattan pic.twitter.com/Bsj5ANEeW1 — Alp Ozcelik (@alplicable) December 13, 2016

What's happening? I was asking myself the same thing! Military looking plane circling Manhattan?! pic.twitter.com/0D5HKYNGHj — elvan (@islandLostFound) December 13, 2016

Other social media users pointed out the plane seemed to be a C130, a military aircraft.

There's a C130 circling Midtown and the R&T/Pop Mech office is enthralled pic.twitter.com/BLeZYepCiv — Chris Perkins (@Chris_Perkins1) December 13, 2016

C130 and 2 Appachie Helicopters circling Manhattan right now pic.twitter.com/Ikb2YNv4QJ — Jason Hart (@jayphart) December 13, 2016

A Washington Post reporter said on Twitter that Col. Broccoli of the 106th Rescue Wing said the C130 was doing “standard military training,” and it was cleared by the FAA.

Col. Broccoli, CO of the 106th Rescue Wing says the C130 circling Manhattan is doing "standard military training." — Thomas Gibbons-Neff (@Tmgneff) December 13, 2016

However, Eric Durr, Director of Public Affairs at New York State Division of Military and Naval Affairs, told Mashable the plane was an HC-130, a search and rescue aircraft.

The FAA said in a statement to Buzzfeed News that the plane was conducting an authorized flight over New York City.

And here's the statement from the FAA pic.twitter.com/yYbFYU5cEY — Mary Georgantopoulos (@marygeorgant) December 13, 2016

The 106th Rescue Wing did not immediately respond to CBS News for a request for comment.