Civilians trapped inside Aleppo post emotional goodbye messages on Aleppo
Civilians trapped in Aleppo post emotional goodbye messages


Civilians trapped inside the Syrian city of Aleppo have been posting goodbye messages on social media and begged for an end to the conflict.

The world's view of the Syria conflict has largely been driven by YouTube, Twitter and Facebook - making it one of the world's most documented wars through amateur videos and coverage.

And as the battle for the city came to an effective end yesterday, residents inside Aleppo who were fearing for their lives took to social media to post emotional messages.

Omar Arab who posted one video to Facebook pleading for help before being interrupted by the sound of gunfire

Activist Lena Shame, left, and teacher Abdulkafi Alhamdo, right, also spoke of their fears of being trapped in Aleppo

In one of the videos posted online, Salah Ashkar , begs for intervention to end the brutal assault on Aleppo, telling the camera: 'Please, there is no minute to spare. Please, please stand with Aleppo.'

Another man, named as media activist Omar Arab, is interrupted during his video by the sound of gunfire over head.

Meanwhile, activist, Lena Shame , describes being in the 'middle of a genocide' before adding: 'This may be my last video.

'More than 50,000 who rebelled against the dictator Assad have been killed.

While teacher Abdulkafi Alhamdo posting on the live streaming app Periscope added: 'Many people now are being killed and just kept in the streets and their buildings. No one can help them. No way, no hospitals, no cure.

In another clip , he adds: 'We did not want anything else but freedom. This world doesn't like freedom it seems.

In one of the videos posted online, Salah Ashkar , begs for intervention to end the brutal assault on Aleppo

'Want I want to say is I don't believe anymore in the United Nations or the international community.

'Russia doesn't want to let us get out alive, they just want us dead.'

Meanwhile, a man called Dr al-Nasr, described the situation as 'apocalyptic'.

However, since the messages have been posted a ceasefire deal has been struck between the pro-Syrian government forces and the rebels for them and the civilians still living there to evacuate the city safely.

Since the messages have been posted a ceasefire deal has been struck between the pro-Syrian government forces and the rebels for them and the civilians still living there to evacuate the city safely

Russia's U.N. ambassador Vitaly Churkin told an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council that 'according to the latest information that we received in the last hour, military actions in eastern Aleppo are over.'

This means that the battle for Aleppo, one of the worst of a civil war that has drawn in global and regional powers, has ended with victory for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his military coalition of Russia, Iran and regional Shi'ite militias.

For rebels, their expected departure with light weapons starting on Wednesday morning for opposition-held regions west of the city is a crushing blow to their hopes of ousting Assad after revolting against him during the 2011 Arab uprisings.

Meanwhile, Russia's U.N. ambassador Vitaly Churkin told an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council that 'according to the latest information that we received in the last hour, military actions in eastern Aleppo are over.'

Rebel officials said fighting would end this evening and a source in the pro-Assad military alliance said the evacuation of fighters would begin at around dawn on Wednesday

He added: 'The bottom line is - if everything is okay - that means that the fighting around eastern Aleppo is over.'

Elsewhere, rebel officials said fighting would end this evening and a source in the pro-Assad military alliance said the evacuation of fighters would begin at around dawn on Wednesday. A reporter in Aleppo said that the booms of the bombardment could no longer be heard.