Little Mix Songs Remixed: Listen to 7 of the Best
Little Mix Songs Remixed: Listen to 7 of the Best
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Little Mix Songs Remixed: Listen to 7 of the Best  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Little Mix has whipped up the perfect recipe for attaining global female pop-group recognition since their 2011 victory. With their female empowerment anthems laced onto giddy pop numbers, the quartet has seen mainstream success from their Hot 100 cuts ("Black Magic", "Shout Out To My Ex") and is celebrating yet another victory: their chart-topping album . As the girls celebrate their No. 1 album on the UK charts, compiled a list of the best Little Mix songs remixed.  London trio Luvbug inserted a few extra ingredients into Little Mix's smash hit. A pinch of chopped and screwed vocals with eerie loops and a bouncy backbeat, Luvbug turns the spellbinding track into an indelible four-minute piece.  The Brit girl group's fiery empowerment anthem meets its match as Alias pairs the singers' voices with a driving beat.  Woozy synths and faint drum kicks smother the trap-tinged track which only serves as the appetizer for the full-course breakdown towards the end of the remix.  Stripped away from the snappy elements from the original Little Mix song, this mix gradually takes listeners through an array of moods from the sensual ambience in the opening to the skittering rhythmic chorus.  Little Mix's songs "DNA" already laid down the foundation for an upbeat arrangement but Kat Krazy takes the track a step further and peels back it's haunting elements, feathering airy accents all over the piece.  A soothing lullaby meets with gritty production to create the perfect melodic love affair.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Little Mix has whipped up the perfect recipe for attaining global female pop-group recognition since their 2011 X Factor victory. With their female empowerment anthems laced onto giddy pop numbers, the quartet has seen mainstream success from their Hot 100 cuts ("Black Magic", "Shout Out To My Ex") and is celebrating yet another victory: their chart-topping album Glory Days.

As the girls celebrate their No. 1 album on the UK charts, Billboard Dance compiled a list of the best Little Mix songs remixed.

Little Mix - "Black Magic" (LuvBug Remix)

London trio Luvbug inserted a few extra ingredients into Little Mix's smash hit. A pinch of chopped and screwed vocals with eerie loops and a bouncy backbeat, Luvbug turns the spellbinding track into an indelible four-minute piece.

Little Mix - "Wings" (The Alias Remix)

The Brit girl group's fiery empowerment anthem meets its match as Alias pairs the singers' voices with a driving beat.

Little Mix - "Salute" (ARVFZ Remix)

Woozy synths and faint drum kicks smother the trap-tinged track which only serves as the appetizer for the full-course breakdown towards the end of the remix.

Little Mix - "Move" (Mike Delinquent Remix)

Stripped away from the snappy elements from the original Little Mix song, this mix gradually takes listeners through an array of moods from the sensual ambience in the opening to the skittering rhythmic chorus.

Little Mix - "DNA" (Kat Krazy Remix)

Little Mix's songs "DNA" already laid down the foundation for an upbeat arrangement but Kat Krazy takes the track a step further and peels back it's haunting elements, feathering airy accents all over the piece.

Little Mix - "Secret Love Song" (Muffin Remix)

A soothing lullaby meets with gritty production to create the perfect melodic love affair.