Oklahoma To Require Anti-Abortion Signs In Public Restrooms
Oklahoma To Require Anti-Abortion Signs In Public Restrooms
Oklahoma may require public restrooms in restaurants, hospitals, public schools, hotels and nursing homes to post signs with anti-abortion sentiments as part of a drive against the procedure. The state’s board of health was due to discuss Tuesday regulations that would force any restrooms in buildings regulated by the Oklahoma Health Department to carry signs that state: There are many public and private agencies willing and able to help you carry your child to term and assist you and your child after your child is born, whether you choose to keep your child or to place him or her for adoption. The State of Oklahoma strongly urges you to contact them if you are pregnant. The stipulation could cost affected businesses and organizations an estimated $2.3 million and would require them to put up the signs by January 2018, The Associated Press reported Tuesday. Anti-abortion group Oklahomans for Life pushed for the June passage of the bill containing the sign provision. Known as the “Humanity of the Unborn Child Act,” the legislation requires the state to work toward “achieving an abortion-free society” through information material, public service announcements and other media. Oklahoma legislators passed a bill in May to make it a felony for doctors to perform abortions, but Gov. Mary Fallin (R) vetoed it the next day. Oklahoma would have been the first state to effectively ban abortion based on professional conduct standards had the bill been approved, according to the AP . Many opponents of the bill shared their disgust at the plan on Twitter: Wow.  Apparently Oklahoma has no regard for #reprorights at all. #boycottoklahoma  https://t.co/93nbynr0uP My state is an embarrassment. https://t.co/lMpKsS5YZF And everyone wonders why the ENTIRE country thinks we're trailer trash. Oklahoma's unfunded anti-abortion plan https://t.co/Ab8IgHQqKN Call me crazy, but wouldn't it be easier and cheaper to just teach sex ed? https://t.co/QL5T9aXOfK Hey, Oklahoma. Abortion restrictions don't give you an abortion-free society. Education, health care and welfare do. pic.twitter.com/eigQ0aZojA Dear Oklahoma:  The people who wanted and/or passed the anti-abortion law make me sick. Related...  Coalition Of Abortion Providers Sues Texas Over 'Fetal Burial' Regulations   Congressman Calls Out GOP's Anti-Abortion Hearing As Racist  ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Oklahoma may require public restrooms in restaurants, hospitals, public schools, hotels and nursing homes to post signs with anti-abortion sentiments as part of a drive against the procedure.

The state’s board of health was due to discuss Tuesday regulations that would force any restrooms in buildings regulated by the Oklahoma Health Department to carry signs that state:

There are many public and private agencies willing and able to help you carry your child to term and assist you and your child after your child is born, whether you choose to keep your child or to place him or her for adoption. The State of Oklahoma strongly urges you to contact them if you are pregnant.

The stipulation could cost affected businesses and organizations an estimated $2.3 million and would require them to put up the signs by January 2018, The Associated Press reported Tuesday.

Anti-abortion group Oklahomans for Life pushed for the June passage of the bill containing the sign provision. Known as the “Humanity of the Unborn Child Act,” the legislation requires the state to work toward “achieving an abortion-free society” through information material, public service announcements and other media.

Oklahoma legislators passed a bill in May to make it a felony for doctors to perform abortions, but Gov. Mary Fallin (R) vetoed it the next day. Oklahoma would have been the first state to effectively ban abortion based on professional conduct standards had the bill been approved, according to the AP.

Many opponents of the bill shared their disgust at the plan on Twitter:

My state is an embarrassment. https://t.co/lMpKsS5YZF — NotReadyToMakeNice (@alovelily) December 13, 2016

And everyone wonders why the ENTIRE country thinks we're trailer trash.

Oklahoma's unfunded anti-abortion plan https://t.co/Ab8IgHQqKN — Chuck (@HolyShitItsWade) December 13, 2016

Call me crazy, but wouldn't it be easier and cheaper to just teach sex ed? https://t.co/QL5T9aXOfK — Sarah Peterson (@Slp5111) December 13, 2016

Hey, Oklahoma. Abortion restrictions don't give you an abortion-free society. Education, health care and welfare do. pic.twitter.com/eigQ0aZojA — Brian Hall (@tauycreek) December 13, 2016