Nearly one in four democrat Electoral College voters sign letter demanding information on Russian election hacking
Nearly one in four democrat Electoral College voters sign letter demanding information on Russian election hacking
Popular videos    PMQs proved what a terrible duo May and Corbyn really are      Theresa May refuses to follow US in ending bomb sales to Saudi Arabia      Jeremy Corbyn blames massive Government cuts for social care crisis      Tony Blair is responsible for the situation in Aleppo   Nearly one in four democratic members of the Electoral College have now signed a letter requesting more information from intelligence officials on the relationship between President-elect Donald Trump and Russia. Ten democratic electors signed the open letter to Director of National Intelligence James Clapper on Monday, and 44 have now added their signatures, bringing the total to 54. They are joined by one Republican: Christopher Suprun from Texas, who has pledged not to vote for Mr Trump . The CIA concluded that Russia conducted hacks against the Democratic National Committee and other associated officials in order to help Mr Trump win the election . President Barack Obama had earlier called for a "full review" of intelligence on Russia's involvement in the hacks. World reaction to President Trump: In pictures               World reaction to President Trump: In pictures       London, England   AP        London, England   Reuters        Manila, Philippines   Getty Images        Manila, Philippines   Getty        Mosul , Iraq   Getty        Manila, Philippines   AP        New Delhi, India   Reuters        Karachi, Pakistan   EPA        Jakarta, Indonesia   Reuters        Lagos, Nigeria   AP        Kabul, Afghanistan   AP        Jerusalem. Israel   Reuters        Moscow, Russia   Reuters        Seoul, South Korea   AP        Lagos, Nigeria   AP        Peshawar, Pakistan   EPA        Jakarta, Indonesia   Reuters        Hyderabad, India   AP        Kolkata, India   AP        Sydney, Australia   Getty        Sydney, Australia   AP        Aleppo, Syria   Reuters        Mexico City, Mexico   AP        Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago   Reuters        Jerusalem, Israel   EPA        Baghdad, Iraq   Rex        Gaza Strip, Palestinian Territories   Rex        Tokyo, Japan   Rex        Mexico City, Mexico   Getty  In an open letter to Mr Clapper, the electors called for the release of information "to investigate, discuss, and deliberate with our colleagues about whom to vote for in the electoral college". Read more Russia 'interfered in US election as revenge against Hillary Clinton' Russia 'targeted US democracy' with election hacks, senators say Donald Trump 'doesn't believe' CIA that Russia helped him win election 'Up to 30' Republican electors prepared to block Trump victory 'Highly probable' Russia interfered in Brexit referendum, claims MP "The electors require to know from the intelligence community whether there are ongoing investigations into ties between Donald Trump, his campaign or associates, and Russian government interference in the election, the scope of those investigations, how far those investigations may have reached, and who was involved in those investigations," they wrote. "We further require a briefing on all investigative findings, as these matters directly impact the core factors in our deliberations of whether Mr Trump is fit to serve as President of the United States." The electors also said they found Mr Trump's transition team's dismissal of the CIA's findings concerning. "These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction," his transition team said in a statement. “The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest electoral college victories in history. It’s now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again’.” The electors point out that during the election, Mr Trump called on the Russian government to release tens of thousands of private emails from Hillary Clinton. “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” he said at a press conference in Florida. “They probably have them. I’d like to have them released.”  More about: Donald Trump electoral college Russia Vladimir Putin CIA James Clapper Democratic National Committee Barack Obama Comments

Nearly one in four democratic members of the Electoral College have now signed a letter requesting more information from intelligence officials on the relationship between President-elect Donald Trump and Russia.

Ten democratic electors signed the open letter to Director of National Intelligence James Clapper on Monday, and 44 have now added their signatures, bringing the total to 54.

They are joined by one Republican: Christopher Suprun from Texas, who has pledged not to vote for Mr Trump.

The CIA concluded that Russia conducted hacks against the Democratic National Committee and other associated officials in order to help Mr Trump win the election.

President Barack Obama had earlier called for a "full review" of intelligence on Russia's involvement in the hacks.

World reaction to President Trump: In pictures







29 show all World reaction to President Trump: In pictures























































1/29 London, England AP

2/29 London, England Reuters

3/29 Manila, Philippines Getty Images

4/29 Manila, Philippines Getty

5/29 Mosul , Iraq Getty

6/29 Manila, Philippines AP

7/29 New Delhi, India Reuters

8/29 Karachi, Pakistan EPA

9/29 Jakarta, Indonesia Reuters

10/29 Lagos, Nigeria AP

11/29 Kabul, Afghanistan AP

12/29 Jerusalem. Israel Reuters

13/29 Moscow, Russia Reuters

14/29 Seoul, South Korea AP

15/29 Lagos, Nigeria AP

16/29 Peshawar, Pakistan EPA

17/29 Jakarta, Indonesia Reuters

18/29 Hyderabad, India AP

19/29 Kolkata, India AP

20/29 Sydney, Australia Getty

21/29 Sydney, Australia AP

22/29 Aleppo, Syria Reuters

23/29 Mexico City, Mexico AP

24/29 Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago Reuters

25/29 Jerusalem, Israel EPA

26/29 Baghdad, Iraq Rex

27/29 Gaza Strip, Palestinian Territories Rex

28/29 Tokyo, Japan Rex

29/29 Mexico City, Mexico Getty

In an open letter to Mr Clapper, the electors called for the release of information "to investigate, discuss, and deliberate with our colleagues about whom to vote for in the electoral college".

"The electors require to know from the intelligence community whether there are ongoing investigations into ties between Donald Trump, his campaign or associates, and Russian government interference in the election, the scope of those investigations, how far those investigations may have reached, and who was involved in those investigations," they wrote.

"We further require a briefing on all investigative findings, as these matters directly impact the core factors in our deliberations of whether Mr Trump is fit to serve as President of the United States."

The electors also said they found Mr Trump's transition team's dismissal of the CIA's findings concerning.

"These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction," his transition team said in a statement.

“The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest electoral college victories in history. It’s now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again’.”

The electors point out that during the election, Mr Trump called on the Russian government to release tens of thousands of private emails from Hillary Clinton.

“Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” he said at a press conference in Florida. “They probably have them. I’d like to have them released.”