Remember Lionel Messi's 5-Year-Old Afghan Fan? He Finally Got To Meet His Idol
Remember Lionel Messi's 5-Year-Old Afghan Fan? He Finally Got To Meet His Idol
Remember Lionel Messi's 5-Year-Old Afghan Fan? He Finally Got To Meet His Idol When five-year-old Murtaza Ahmadi wore a Messi Argentina shirt made out of plastic bag, he became an overnight internet sensation with his images going viral . But now, nearly a year later, Murtaza finally got to meet the Argentine footballer in Doha. The Afghan boy's dream of meeting his idol came true, according to the Qatar's World Cup 2022 organising committee. Six year old Afghan boy Murtaza finally meets #Messi . pic.twitter.com/ujA2wa81UB FC Barcelona is in Qatar to play a friendly match against Al Ahli Saudi FC. Earlier in February, Murtaza received a signed jersey from Messi after his image went viral. Before getting the real Argentina jersey, little Murtaza donned Messi's Barcelona colours with the help of Afghanistan's football authorities. Murtaza's family hails from rural Taliban-infested Ghazni province southwest of Kabul. The image the world wanted to see. The six year old boy who dreamed of meeting his hero, #Messi , finally comes true. #FCBinDoha  pic.twitter.com/58FWn17b9A But in May, amid constant telephone threats, Murtaza family had to move to Pakistan and settle in the city of Quetta. His father, Mohammad Arif Ahmadi said he feared that his son would be kidnapped after becoming an internet sensation after pictures of him wearing a Messi jersey made out of a striped plastic bag went viral.

When five-year-old Murtaza Ahmadi wore a Messi Argentina shirt made out of plastic bag, he became an overnight internet sensation with his images going viral. But now, nearly a year later, Murtaza finally got to meet the Argentine footballer in Doha.

Twitter

The Afghan boy's dream of meeting his idol came true, according to the Qatar's World Cup 2022 organising committee.

Six year old Afghan boy Murtaza finally meets #Messi. pic.twitter.com/ujA2wa81UB — Road to 2022 (@roadto2022) 13 December 2016

FC Barcelona is in Qatar to play a friendly match against Al Ahli Saudi FC.

Reuters

Earlier in February, Murtaza received a signed jersey from Messi after his image went viral. Before getting the real Argentina jersey, little Murtaza donned Messi's Barcelona colours with the help of Afghanistan's football authorities.

Reuters

Murtaza's family hails from rural Taliban-infested Ghazni province southwest of Kabul.

The image the world wanted to see. The six year old boy who dreamed of meeting his hero, #Messi, finally comes true. #FCBinDoha pic.twitter.com/58FWn17b9A — Road to 2022 (@roadto2022) 13 December 2016

But in May, amid constant telephone threats, Murtaza family had to move to Pakistan and settle in the city of Quetta. His father, Mohammad Arif Ahmadi said he feared that his son would be kidnapped after becoming an internet sensation after pictures of him wearing a Messi jersey made out of a striped plastic bag went viral.