Watch Niall Horan's Confident Performance of 'This Town' on 'Tonight Show'
Watch Niall Horan's Confident Performance of 'This Town' on 'Tonight Show'
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Watch Niall Horan's Confident Performance of 'This Town' on 'Tonight Show'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  made his solo debut on  but he delivered like the pro he is. The singer slung an acoustic guitar and took center stage for a performance of "This Town" on Jimmy Fallon’s late night talkshow. . @NiallOfficial is performing “This Town” for Studio 6B! #NiallOnFallon  #FallonTonight  pic.twitter.com/3HQD23LS4m The Irish-born pop star is the second founding 1D member to grace Fallon’s stage after performed “It’s You,” from his debut album , back in February . "This Town" blasted to No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Top Tracks and ignited his first-ever No. 1 debut on the Social 50 chart following the single’s release Sept. 29 through Neon Haze/Capitol Records. The track reached a height of No. 25 on the Billboard Hot 100.  Horan last appeared on the show as a member of member of 1D back in December 2014 for a festive performance of “Santa Claus Is Coming To Town” on classroom instruments.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Niall Horan made his solo debut on The Tonight Show, but he delivered like the pro he is.

The One Direction singer slung an acoustic guitar and took center stage for a performance of "This Town" on Jimmy Fallon’s late night talkshow.

The Irish-born pop star is the second founding 1D member to grace Fallon’s stage after Zayn Malik performed “It’s You,” from his debut album Mind of Mine, back in February.

"This Town" blasted to No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Top Tracks and ignited his first-ever No. 1 debut on the Social 50 chart following the single’s release Sept. 29 through Neon Haze/Capitol Records. The track reached a height of No. 25 on the Billboard Hot 100.

Horan last appeared on the show as a member of member of 1D back in December 2014 for a festive performance of “Santa Claus Is Coming To Town” on classroom instruments.