Police end investigation into attack on Strictly's Gorka Márquez

Police have closed an investigation into the assault of one of Strictly Come Dancing’s professional dancers. Gorka Márquez, 26, reportedly had two teeth knocked out in the Blackpool attack , which occurred on 19 November, hours after he appeared on the BBC programme’s week nine broadcast from the seaside town. A spokesman from the Lancashire constabulary confirmed they had found nothing after checking CCTV. The spokesman said the “proportionate investigation” was now closed and “no arrests have been made”. Márquez did not make a formal complaint to the police, but they decided to investigate the incident, following media reports. A friend of the dancer told the Sun that Márquez was punched in the face in an “entirely random” attack, started by a “group of local louts”. The dancer had been on his way to the Flamingo nightclub in the early hours of Sunday morning with fellow Strictly stars Aljaž Škorjanec and Neil Jones. Márquez underwent restorative dental surgery in the days following the attack, tweeting to fans saying “thanks for all your kind messages and support” and saying he was feeling better following the experience. He has since appeared in group dances on the show. The dancer made his Strictly debut this year with his partner, EastEnders actor Tameka Empson, who was eliminated in the third week of the competition after a score of 28 points for a tango to The Heat is On. The Strictly Come Dancing final of the 14th series is taking place on Saturday, when Márquez will perform in a group with his fellow professionals. Márquez will also appear in the Christmas edition of the show, with an American smooth to Let it Go with former Saturdays member Frankie Bridge. The Strictly Come Dancing Christmas special will air on BBC1 at 6.45pm on Christmas Day. Topics  Strictly Come Dancing   Blackpool

Police have closed an investigation into the assault of one of Strictly Come Dancing’s professional dancers.

Gorka Márquez, 26, reportedly had two teeth knocked out in the Blackpool attack, which occurred on 19 November, hours after he appeared on the BBC programme’s week nine broadcast from the seaside town.



A spokesman from the Lancashire constabulary confirmed they had found nothing after checking CCTV. The spokesman said the “proportionate investigation” was now closed and “no arrests have been made”.



Márquez did not make a formal complaint to the police, but they decided to investigate the incident, following media reports.

A friend of the dancer told the Sun that Márquez was punched in the face in an “entirely random” attack, started by a “group of local louts”. The dancer had been on his way to the Flamingo nightclub in the early hours of Sunday morning with fellow Strictly stars Aljaž Škorjanec and Neil Jones.

Márquez underwent restorative dental surgery in the days following the attack, tweeting to fans saying “thanks for all your kind messages and support” and saying he was feeling better following the experience. He has since appeared in group dances on the show.



The dancer made his Strictly debut this year with his partner, EastEnders actor Tameka Empson, who was eliminated in the third week of the competition after a score of 28 points for a tango to The Heat is On.



The Strictly Come Dancing final of the 14th series is taking place on Saturday, when Márquez will perform in a group with his fellow professionals.



Márquez will also appear in the Christmas edition of the show, with an American smooth to Let it Go with former Saturdays member Frankie Bridge. The Strictly Come Dancing Christmas special will air on BBC1 at 6.45pm on Christmas Day.

