BBC News tune dancer invited on the channel to perform during the credits
BBC News tune dancer invited on the channel to perform during the credits
street performer went viral after offering an alternative take on the BBC News opening title sequence with a brilliant dance. The BBC News team must have seen it - as people watching the channel on Friday afternoon saw an unusual sight during the program. As the music played, the man popped out and started dancing to the theme tune while the anchors looked on delightedly. ournalist Jakub Krupa , a UK correspondent for the Polish Press Agency, captured the unusual street performance in Leicester Square, London, on December 13. So this guy at Leicester Square is dancing to @BBCNews 's news bulletin jingle... pic.twitter.com/Tp4J6LvlYB “So this guy at Leicester Square is dancing to @BBCNews's news bulletin jingle...” he tweeted. ocial media users have been impressed with the dancing man’s unusual choice of song in the clip which has been shared and liked by thousands online. Radio 1 DJ Greg James tweeted: “My spirit animal.” While BBC Presenter Huw Edwards simply tweeted in response: “Pass.” Another joked: “You should see his routine for the long-range shipping forecast!” Here’s how Twitter reacted @JakubKrupa  @BBCNews Pass. @scottreid1980  @JakubKrupa It's a steep climb, I have to be honest. @RobertCorp  @scottreid1980  @JakubKrupa Good luck. I'm sure some of them will pile in. @JakubKrupa  @BBCNews Pity he can only do it once an hour though... @JakubKrupa  @BBCNews he loves news arlier this year, an Irish weather presenter pulled off a bizarre Halloween trick to stun viewers . Here's the shocking moment a presenter was impaled by a nail in a failed magic trick on live TV .

A street performer went viral after offering an alternative take on the BBC News opening title sequence with a brilliant dance.

The BBC News team must have seen it - as people watching the channel on Friday afternoon saw an unusual sight during the program.

As the music played, the man popped out and started dancing to the theme tune while the anchors looked on delightedly.