Robin Thicke Posts Tribute to Late Father Alan
Robin Thicke Posts Tribute to Late Father Alan
Shares               Veteran actor Alan Thicke died yesterday at the age of 69, after suffering a heart attack in Los Angeles, his son Robin Thicke 's publicist confirmed to ABC News. Thicke starred on the hit series "Growing Pains" in the '80s and '90s, acting as America's father. Tributes from friends and family started pouring in right after the tragic news broke.   Robin Thicke spoke out about the loss on Instagram. "My father passed away today," he began. "He was the best man I ever knew. The best friend I ever had. Let's all rejoice and celebrate the joy he brought to every room he was in. We love you Alan Thicke. Thank you for your love. Love, your grateful son."  A photo posted by Robin Thicke (@robinthicke) on Dec 13, 2016 at 11:57pm PST  In addition to Robin Thicke, Kirk Cameron , who played Alan Thicke's son Mike on "Growing Pains," took to Facebook to write a lengthy tribute to his "TV dad." "I spent Monday through Friday for seven important years with Alan Thicke as my 'TV dad,'" he began. "I'm shocked and truly heartbroken today at the news of his death. "Alan was a generous, kind and loving man. I am so blessed to have grown up with him. Chelsea and I send our love and prayers to his family tonight. We will cherish the memories ... 'sharing the laughter and love,'" he closed, citing the show's theme song.   Jeremy Miller, who played Ben on the show, added that he "loves Alan deeply" and "lost a father and is heartbroken." Added Joanna Kerns, his on-screen wife, "I am devastated by Alan's passing and will be for some time." Others that have spoken about Alan Thicke on social media include Ellen DeGeneres , Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and more.  Alan Thicke was proudly Canadian, never forgetting his roots as he soared to stardom. My deepest condolences to his family and friends.   America loved Alan Thicke. I'm so sad he's gone. Sending so much love to his family.   Life is short and so fragile. We are so saddened to hear about Alan Thicke ?? our thoughts and prayers go out to his family ????   RIP #AlanThicke - #mrseaver was like a surrogate dad growing up. You will be greatly missed.   As many others did, I grew up being entertained by Alan Thicke. 69 is far too young. My thoughts are with his family and his legion of fans.   Alan Thicke was one of the nicest guys in our business. And he LOVED his family. And hockey. A shocking, sad loss.  Shares                  Robin Thicke Posts Tribute to Late Father Alan   Michael Jackson's Son Prince Explains How His Father Influenced Him   Shannen Doherty Shares Insight Into Radiation Treatments   William, Kate to Spend Christmas With the Middletons   Felicity Jones Shares 'Rogue One' Secrets   'Frozen' Star Has Cold Words About Trump's Inauguration   'Collateral Beauty' Review: A Tragic Tale That's Overly Manipulative   'Rogue One' Composer on Facing Down Nerves About 'Star Wars' Gig   Burning Questions About 'Rogue One' Answered   'Star Wars' History to Know Before Seeing 'Rogue One'   Lamar Odom Opens Up for 1st Time About Brothel Incident   Obama Vows Retaliation as Evidence of Russian Hacking Mounts   Syrians Can't 'Slaughter Their Way to Legitimacy': Obama   Orphaned Children Remain Trapped in Aleppo After Evacuations Suspended   Obama Says Clinton Was Not 'Treated Fairly' During Election   Official: FBI Backs CIA Conclusion on Russian Hacking Motive   N. Carolina GOP Strips Some of Democratic Governor's Power   'Pizzagate' Shooting Suspect Pleads Not Guilty   Trump Moves to Cancel Deals in Azerbaijan, Georgia   'Rogue One:' Riz Ahmed on 'Star Wars' and Rap Battles   'Rogue One's' Diego Luna on Why 'Dark Side Is Very Sexy'

Veteran actor Alan Thicke died yesterday at the age of 69, after suffering a heart attack in Los Angeles, his son Robin Thicke's publicist confirmed to ABC News.

Thicke starred on the hit series "Growing Pains" in the '80s and '90s, acting as America's father.

Tributes from friends and family started pouring in right after the tragic news broke.

Robin Thicke spoke out about the loss on Instagram.

"My father passed away today," he began. "He was the best man I ever knew. The best friend I ever had. Let's all rejoice and celebrate the joy he brought to every room he was in. We love you Alan Thicke. Thank you for your love. Love, your grateful son."

A photo posted by Robin Thicke (@robinthicke) on Dec 13, 2016 at 11:57pm PST

In addition to Robin Thicke, Kirk Cameron, who played Alan Thicke's son Mike on "Growing Pains," took to Facebook to write a lengthy tribute to his "TV dad."

"I spent Monday through Friday for seven important years with Alan Thicke as my 'TV dad,'" he began. "I'm shocked and truly heartbroken today at the news of his death.

"Alan was a generous, kind and loving man. I am so blessed to have grown up with him. Chelsea and I send our love and prayers to his family tonight. We will cherish the memories ... 'sharing the laughter and love,'" he closed, citing the show's theme song.

Jeremy Miller, who played Ben on the show, added that he "loves Alan deeply" and "lost a father and is heartbroken."

Added Joanna Kerns, his on-screen wife, "I am devastated by Alan's passing and will be for some time."

Others that have spoken about Alan Thicke on social media include Ellen DeGeneres, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and more.

Alan Thicke was proudly Canadian, never forgetting his roots as he soared to stardom. My deepest condolences to his family and friends. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) December 14, 2016

America loved Alan Thicke. I'm so sad he's gone. Sending so much love to his family. — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) December 14, 2016

Life is short and so fragile. We are so saddened to hear about Alan Thicke ?? our thoughts and prayers go out to his family ???? — lisa rinna (@lisarinna) December 14, 2016

RIP #AlanThicke - #mrseaver was like a surrogate dad growing up. You will be greatly missed. — Josh Gad (@joshgad) December 14, 2016

As many others did, I grew up being entertained by Alan Thicke. 69 is far too young. My thoughts are with his family and his legion of fans. — Grant Gustin (@grantgust) December 14, 2016