Kanye West reveals Donald Trump signed a copy of Time Magazine for him after hinting at plans to run for president in 2024
Kanye West reveals Donald Trump signed a copy of Time Magazine for him after hinting at plans to run for president in 2024 
anye West posted a picture of a signed copy of Time Magazine, given to him by Donald Trump, on Twitter. The president-elect signed the issue which announced him Person Of The Year, writing: "To Kanye, you are a great friend. Thanks, Donald Trump". This comes after the two met in front of the press in Trump Tower, New York, on Thursday after having a meeting. A Trump spokesperson told the Daily Beast their meeting was about Mr Trump being a "President for all Americans". Kanye West, who claimed he didn't vote in the election but supports Donald Trump, elaborated on this in a series of Twitter posts, before announcing he planned to run in 2024. pic.twitter.com/tNMBk0sZJw e said: "I wanted to meet with Trump today to discuss multicultural issues. "These issues included bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago. "I feel it is important to have a direct line of communication with our future President if we truly want change. "#2024" Immediately after their meeting, the president-elect said of the rapper: "He's a good man. We've been friends for a long time" and said they were talking about "life." anye West remained tight-lipped about the encounter, saying:  "I just want you to take a picture right now." Mr Trump then hugged the rapper, saying: "You take care if yourself. I'll see you soon." Trump transition team communications director Jason Miller told The Daily Beast the two scheduled the meeting because Trump “is going to be president for all Americans". He also said [Kanye] has had "positive things to say about the president-elect," and Trump is interested in "putting together coalitions" and wants to "reach out to people both from traditional and nontraditional, political viewpoints".

Kanye West posted a picture of a signed copy of Time Magazine, given to him by Donald Trump, on Twitter.

The president-elect signed the issue which announced him Person Of The Year, writing: "To Kanye, you are a great friend. Thanks, Donald Trump".

This comes after the two met in front of the press in Trump Tower, New York, on Thursday after having a meeting.

A Trump spokesperson told the Daily Beast their meeting was about Mr Trump being a "President for all Americans".

Kanye West, who claimed he didn't vote in the election but supports Donald Trump, elaborated on this in a series of Twitter posts, before announcing he planned to run in 2024.