Tom Brady jumps Derek Carr for the lead, Matthew Stafford and Matt Ryan rise
ESPN's NFL MVP Poll: Brady unseats Carr for the No. 1 spot
ESPN's NFL MVP Poll: Brady unseats Carr for the No. 1 spot Vikings' Peterson 'ready to roll' Sunday vs. Colts Carroll, Sherman clear air after pass play from 1 Giants working with NFL on walkie-talkie incident Fisher on Rams firing: 'Didn't win enough games' NFL ratings see slight increase since Nov. election Bears WR Wilson fractures foot, out indefinitely Andre Patterson's unorthodox style has Vikings' D-line at top of NFL To live in New Orleans is to die in New Orleans Adam Vinatieri is the NFL's old GOAT The Cowboys, Raiders and why mediocrity reigns in the NFL Tom Brady, Patriots have had rocky history playing in Denver As elite quarterbacks age, Dak Prescott and Jameis Winston ready for big stage Mort & Schefter's Week 15 notebook: Will Steelers re-sign Le'Veon Bell? Steelers used loss to Cowboys as 'reality check' Seahawks hoping 'strange' path will lead them back to Super Bowl 1 Related Russell Wilson, Tyler Lockett help Seahawks clinch NFC West Why home field in playoffs is so important to Seahawks Uni Watch: Colorful callbacks out West NFL schedule Week 15: Buccaneers-Cowboys highlight the week Ravens can't win with Joe Flacco being the NFL's most inefficient quarterback Mike Pereira wants to reveal NFL's 'undercover' officiating program Weather could turn Lions-Giants matchup into defensive battle Darius Slay eager for challenge of facing old foe Odell Beckham Jr. 'New' guys A.J. Derby, Justin Forsett want to impress teammates Jaguars OC Nathaniel Hackett mixes passions: football and Star Wars Love, Hate and the things that help us get by 2 Related Berry's top 100 PPR flex rankings Week 15 flex rankings: Top RB, WR, TE Carroll: Bennett not hit in head, 'should be OK' Rams' Goff in concussion protocol after hard hit Rams rookie QB Jared Goff is taking way too many hits Anthony Lynn fights 'jacked up' criteria on path to head-coaching job Dak Prescott shutting out 'the noise,' focusing on Buccaneers Troy Aikman 'dumbfounded' by Jerry Jones' comments; Jason Garrett won't bite Patriots' claim of WR Michael Floyd could be preview for 2017 as well Aaron Rodgers has performed admirably with a Packers team that has struggled both on defense and in the running game. Green Bay's current three-game winning streak, led by a razor-sharp Rodgers, has the QB in line for his third MVP. (0:58) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Joined ESPN in 2011 New Jersey native and author of two published novels Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment If you arrived on Earth in a spaceship in Week 14 and knew nothing about what happened in the first 13 weeks of the NFL season, you'd think the MVP race was a no-brainer. The future Hall of Famer who took apart the league's No. 1 defense on Monday night looked like the clear choice, whereas the guy who led our poll each of the past two weeks played his worst game of the year at the worst possible time while the rookies who have been driving the league's hottest team looked mortal. So there's a change atop our weekly MVP poll with three weeks to go, with a familiar name taking over the lead. 1. Tom Brady , QB | New England Patriots  233-for-340 (68.5 percent); 2,876 yards; 22 TDs; 2 INTs; 82.4 Total QBR He's 8-1 since returning from suspension. He's playing without Rob Gronkowski . He's the best player at the most important position on the best team. And if you doubted that, he threw for 406 yards and three touchdowns against the Ravens on Monday night and rescued a game New England's special teams almost gave away. Same as it ever was. If you've played only 69 percent as many games as the other candidates for the same award, your case has to be better than theirs by leaps and bounds. Brady was of no value whatsoever to the Patriots in their first four games, and there are too many other good candidates this season to give it to someone who missed so much time. 2. Derek Carr , QB | Oakland Raiders  317-for-499 (63.5 percent); 3,492 yards; 24 TDs; 5 INTs; 60.7 Total QBR He is the quarterback on a 10-3 team and has delivered that team to most of those wins with a fourth-quarter stat line that's as strong as any other quarterback's in the league. Carr has been at his best in the biggest moments for one of the league's best teams. His miserable performance in Thursday's loss to the Chiefs could be disqualifying. If you end up losing the division to another team, and you went 0-2 against them while going 17-of-41 passing for 117 yards in the second one, it's tough to claim this award. Carr's case is based on the ephemeral concept of "clutch," and that was damaged in his most recent game. 3. Matthew Stafford , QB | Detroit Lions  312-for-468 (66.7 percent); 3,447 yards; 22 TDs; 7 INTs; 71.2 Total QBR Why is this year's Lions roster better than last year's? Stafford is operating in a post-Calvin Johnson universe with no running game and basically the same defense he had last year to pair with a young offensive line. The Lions come back to win every week because of how well Stafford is executing the offense, especially in the most important moments. The Lions sometimes find themselves needing to come back in the fourth quarter because of a Stafford mistake. Sure, he was great on the game-winning touchdown drive Sunday, but they needed one only because he threw an interception that was returned for a touchdown to end the previous drive. 4. Ezekiel Elliott , RB | Dallas Cowboys  287 carries; 1,392 rush yards; 12 TDs  28 receptions; 322 receiving yards; 1 TD There's no one on this list whose individual success is so completely intertwined with his team's success. The Cowboys to run the ball to win, and Elliott leads the league in rushing by more than 250 yards. He's averaging "only" 4.4 yards per carry (a half-yard under his season average) in his past two games against the tough run defenses of the Vikings and the Giants. Elliott's case could use a strong finish that reminds everyone of what he looked like in Weeks 3 through 6. 5. Matt Ryan , QB | Atlanta Falcons  302-for-442 (68.3 percent); 4,050 yards; 30 TDs; 7 INTs; 81.1 Total QBR Of the quarterbacks on the league's top teams, no one's numbers sparkle quite like Ryan's, and he leads the league with 9.16 yards per pass attempt. He managed three touchdown passes Sunday without Julio Jones on the field. The only real case against Ryan at this point is that his record isn't as good as those of the other candidates. Brady has won as many games and missed the first four. MVPs tend to come from the very best teams, and at this point, we still don't know whether Atlanta will be able to claim to be one of those. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Aaron Rodgers has performed admirably with a Packers team that has struggled both on defense and in the running game. Green Bay's current three-game winning streak, led by a razor-sharp Rodgers, has the QB in line for his third MVP. (0:58)

If you arrived on Earth in a spaceship in Week 14 and knew nothing about what happened in the first 13 weeks of the NFL season, you'd think the MVP race was a no-brainer.

The future Hall of Famer who took apart the league's No. 1 defense on Monday night looked like the clear choice, whereas the guy who led our poll each of the past two weeks played his worst game of the year at the worst possible time while the rookies who have been driving the league's hottest team looked mortal.

So there's a change atop our weekly MVP poll with three weeks to go, with a familiar name taking over the lead.

Methodology: Each of our 13 panelists nominated their top five candidates. First-place votes were worth five points, second-place votes worth four, third-place votes worth three, fourth-place votes worth two and fifth-place votes worth one.

Previous polls: Week 14 | Week 13

Regular-season passing: 233-for-340 (68.5 percent); 2,876 yards; 22 TDs; 2 INTs; 82.4 Total QBR

Case for Brady: He's 8-1 since returning from suspension. He's playing without Rob Gronkowski. He's the best player at the most important position on the best team. And if you doubted that, he threw for 406 yards and three touchdowns against the Ravens on Monday night and rescued a game New England's special teams almost gave away.

Case against Brady: Same as it ever was. If you've played only 69 percent as many games as the other candidates for the same award, your case has to be better than theirs by leaps and bounds. Brady was of no value whatsoever to the Patriots in their first four games, and there are too many other good candidates this season to give it to someone who missed so much time.

Regular-season passing: 317-for-499 (63.5 percent); 3,492 yards; 24 TDs; 5 INTs; 60.7 Total QBR

Case for Carr: He is the quarterback on a 10-3 team and has delivered that team to most of those wins with a fourth-quarter stat line that's as strong as any other quarterback's in the league. Carr has been at his best in the biggest moments for one of the league's best teams.

Case against Carr: His miserable performance in Thursday's loss to the Chiefs could be disqualifying. If you end up losing the division to another team, and you went 0-2 against them while going 17-of-41 passing for 117 yards in the second one, it's tough to claim this award. Carr's case is based on the ephemeral concept of "clutch," and that was damaged in his most recent game.

Regular-season passing: 312-for-468 (66.7 percent); 3,447 yards; 22 TDs; 7 INTs; 71.2 Total QBR

Case for Stafford: Why is this year's Lions roster better than last year's? Stafford is operating in a post-Calvin Johnson universe with no running game and basically the same defense he had last year to pair with a young offensive line. The Lions come back to win every week because of how well Stafford is executing the offense, especially in the most important moments.

Case against Stafford: The Lions sometimes find themselves needing to come back in the fourth quarter because of a Stafford mistake. Sure, he was great on the game-winning touchdown drive Sunday, but they needed one only because he threw an interception that was returned for a touchdown to end the previous drive.

Regular-season rushing: 287 carries; 1,392 rush yards; 12 TDs

Regular-season receiving: 28 receptions; 322 receiving yards; 1 TD

Case for Elliott: There's no one on this list whose individual success is so completely intertwined with his team's success. The Cowboys have to run the ball to win, and Elliott leads the league in rushing by more than 250 yards.

Case against Elliott: He's averaging "only" 4.4 yards per carry (a half-yard under his season average) in his past two games against the tough run defenses of the Vikings and the Giants. Elliott's case could use a strong finish that reminds everyone of what he looked like in Weeks 3 through 6.

Regular-season passing: 302-for-442 (68.3 percent); 4,050 yards; 30 TDs; 7 INTs; 81.1 Total QBR

Case for Ryan: Of the quarterbacks on the league's top teams, no one's numbers sparkle quite like Ryan's, and he leads the league with 9.16 yards per pass attempt. He managed three touchdown passes Sunday without Julio Jones on the field.

Case against Ryan: The only real case against Ryan at this point is that his record isn't as good as those of the other candidates. Brady has won as many games and missed the first four. MVPs tend to come from the very best teams, and at this point, we still don't know whether Atlanta will be able to claim to be one of those.