Richard Sherman Blasts the NFL (Again) for Forcing Players to Play in Thursday Night Games
Richard Sherman Blasts the NFL (Again) for Forcing Players to Play in Thursday Night Games
On Sunday afternoon, the Seahawks got destroyed by the Packers 38-10 at Lambeau Field in Green Bay. On Thursday, they'll have to don their pads again and play a home game against the Rams. Seattle star Richard Sherman absolutely the quick turnaround time, and he made it clear just how much he dislikes playing on such short rest on Tuesday. "Poopfest. It's terrible," Sherman said of . "We got home [at] like 1 o'clock in the morning, something like that on Monday, and then you've got to play again. Congratulations, NFL, you did it again. But they've been doing it all season, so I guess we're the last ones to get the middle finger." Sherman added that his body will only be about 50 to 60 percent recovered by the time Seattle's game against Los Angeles kicks off. Of Sherman's many gripes with the NFL, he says that playing on Thursday night is easily in his top five. "Because it's just no regard," he explained. "It's hypocritical, as I've stated before. They make this huge stance about player safety. Then you put the players in tremendous danger...There's really not much you can do right now. It's part of the revenue, etc., etc. And the league probably has something else up their sleeve. They might have a Friday night game planned. Who knows?" This is not the first time the three-time Pro Bowl cornerback has taken umbrage with Thursday night contests. Last season, he sarcastically called them "another one of those simple contradictions of the league, because they care about us." Fortunately for Sherman and the Seahawks, the Rams stink this season and are about as a close to a bye week as you're going to get at this point in the season. But if anyone with the NFL is listening, Sherman would like to have a word about these Thursday night contests.

On Sunday afternoon, the Seahawks got destroyed by the Packers 38-10 at Lambeau Field in Green Bay. On Thursday, they'll have to don their pads again and play a home game against the Rams. Seattle star Richard Sherman absolutely hates the quick turnaround time, and he made it clear just how much he dislikes playing on such short rest on Tuesday.

"Poopfest. It's terrible," Sherman said of Thursday Night Football. "We got home [at] like 1 o'clock in the morning, something like that on Monday, and then you've got to play again. Congratulations, NFL, you did it again. But they've been doing it all season, so I guess we're the last ones to get the middle finger."

Sherman added that his body will only be about 50 to 60 percent recovered by the time Seattle's game against Los Angeles kicks off. Of Sherman's many gripes with the NFL, he says that playing on Thursday night is easily in his top five.

"Because it's just no regard," he explained. "It's hypocritical, as I've stated before. They make this huge stance about player safety. Then you put the players in tremendous danger...There's really not much you can do right now. It's part of the revenue, etc., etc. And the league probably has something else up their sleeve. They might have a Friday night game planned. Who knows?"

This is not the first time the three-time Pro Bowl cornerback has taken umbrage with Thursday night contests. Last season, he sarcastically called them "another one of those simple contradictions of the league, because they care about us."

Fortunately for Sherman and the Seahawks, the Rams stink this season and are about as a close to a bye week as you're going to get at this point in the season. But if anyone with the NFL is listening, Sherman would like to have a word about these Thursday night contests.