Christopher Nolan's War Epic 'Dunkirk' Unveils New Trailer Featuring Harry Styles and Explosions
Christopher Nolan's War Epic 'Dunkirk' Unveils New Trailer Featuring Harry Styles and Explosions
We finally have a relatively lengthy, hype-filled trailer to obsess over until the film hits theaters next summer. Unlike the initial 60-second tease released back in August, the latest glimpse at Christopher Nolan 's World War II film about the Dunkirk evacuation offers an expansive look at what to be a straight-up ensemble story. #Dunkirk  pic.twitter.com/P2iiOGcySN , also written and produced by Nolan, is rocking an extremely brag-worthy cast. One Direction's Harry Styles joins Tom Hardy , Kenneth Branagh, James D'Arcy, Cillian Murphy, and Mark Rylance for the Hans Zimmer-scored war epic. Though we don't know too much about what Nolan is going to do with the Battle of Dunkirk story,  notes that one additional thing worth obsessing over is how exactly a likely PG-13 rating can properly house the very real horrors of war. From filmmaker Christopher Nolan comes the epic action thriller DUNKIRK, in theaters July 21, 2017. #DunkirkMovie https://t.co/jIrDu35MLw But, hey, Nolan is the same guy who defied the odds by making what is clearly the best film while burdened with that PG-13 nonsense. Of course, Nolan's alleged check is also worth mentioning. According to the , he's grabbing a cool $20 million for the gig. That's the biggest deal for a director since Peter Jackson got roughly the same payout for . Nolan, reports, is also getting an estimated 20 percent of 's final gross. hits theaters July 21, 2017.

We finally have a relatively lengthy, hype-filled Dunkirk trailer to obsess over until the film hits theaters next summer. Unlike the initial 60-second tease released back in August, the latest glimpse at Christopher Nolan's World War II film about the Dunkirk evacuation offers an expansive look at what appears to be a straight-up ensemble story.

Dunkirk, also written and produced by Nolan, is rocking an extremely brag-worthy cast. One Direction's Harry Styles joins Tom Hardy, Kenneth Branagh, James D'Arcy, Cillian Murphy, and Mark Rylance for the Hans Zimmer-scored war epic. Though we don't know too much about what Nolan is going to do with the Battle of Dunkirk story, Collider notes that one additional thing worth obsessing over is how exactly a likely PG-13 rating can properly house the very real horrors of war.

From filmmaker Christopher Nolan comes the epic action thriller DUNKIRK, in theaters July 21, 2017. #DunkirkMoviehttps://t.co/jIrDu35MLw — Dunkirk (@dunkirkmovie) August 5, 2016

But, hey, Nolan is the same guy who defied the odds by making what is clearly the best Batman film while burdened with that PG-13 nonsense. Of course, Nolan's alleged Dunkirk check is also worth mentioning. According to the Hollywood Reporter, he's grabbing a cool $20 million for the gig. That's the biggest deal for a director since Peter Jackson got roughly the same payout for King Kong. Nolan, THR reports, is also getting an estimated 20 percent of Dunkirk's final gross.

Dunkirk hits theaters July 21, 2017.