Hyderabad Blast Prime Accused Riyaz Bhatkal Lives A Life Of Luxury In Karachi All Thanks To ISI
Hyderabad Blast Prime Accused Riyaz Bhatkal Lives A Life Of Luxury In Karachi All Thanks To ISI
Hyderabad Blast Prime Accused Riyaz Bhatkal Lives A Life Of Luxury In Karachi All Thanks To ISI Foot soldiers of the Indian Mujahideen (IM), who executed the terror strike in Dilsukhnagar, may have been convicted by a National Investigation Agency(NIA) court, but prime accused and to be holed up in Karachi, with the patronage of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence(ISI). NIA detectives claim IM co-founder Riyaz made a huge amount of money courtesy the benevolence of ISI. "Several IM members received financial and material assistance from ISI, which has been providing shelter to Riyaz and his brother Iqbal Bhatkal in Karachi," the NIA said in its chargesheet filed in the Dilsukhnagar blast case. Officials said Riyaz is currently living a lavish life at a house in Karachi. Riyaz's financial prosperity, a result of deciding to sail with the ISI, is what led to the IM split, an NIA source said. His decision was contrary to that of former IM members such as Shafi Armar who is reportedly in Syria luring Indians to join the ranks of the Islamic State (IS) - and others, who wanted to further the cause of either al-Qaida or the IS. As Riyaz reportedly has a passport issued by Pakistan, NIA officials are finding it difficult to track his movements and nab him. To execute the blasts, Riyaz sent Rs 1.25 lakh through hawala and a legitimate money transfer channel. After the blasts, he wired nearly Rs 70,000 to his associates from the United Arab Emirates. Riyaz was constantly in touch with Yasin Bhatkal, who kept changing his location, before executing the Dilsukhnagar terror strike from Pakistan, the NIA source said. Riyaz, who wanted to avenge alleged anti-Muslim activities in Hyderabad, directed the trio, the planters Asadullah Akhtar, alias Haddi, Mohd Tahseen Akhtar, alias Hasan and Zia-ur-Rahman, alias Waqas, to join Yasin and execute the twin blasts in Dilsukhnagar and other places across the country. A day before the blast, Riyaz told Yasin that a blast would be triggered and asked him to pray for its success. Initially, Yasin wanted picric acid to be used in the manufacture of the bomb, but others turned down his suggestion as it was difficult to arrange the compound. Riyaz arranged 50 detonators to prepare improvised explosive devices (IEDs) used in the twin blasts, the NIA said. Throughout the conspiracy , he was in touch with his associates through Yahoo messenger. The Dilsukhnagar blasts were financed by Riyaz through Western Union money transfer and hawala channels. Riyaz was particular Asadullah purchase a mobile and keep the phone switched on a particular day to receive information about the delivery of explosive from an unknown person, NIA officials said, expanding on the extent of his role in the blasts.

Foot soldiers of the Indian Mujahideen (IM), who executed the terror strike in Dilsukhnagar, may have been convicted by a National Investigation Agency(NIA) court, but prime accused and mastermind Riyaz Bhatkal is believed to be holed up in Karachi, with the patronage of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence(ISI).

NIA detectives claim IM co-founder Riyaz made a huge amount of money courtesy the benevolence of ISI.

PTI

"Several IM members received financial and material assistance from ISI, which has been providing shelter to Riyaz and his brother Iqbal Bhatkal in Karachi," the NIA said in its chargesheet filed in the Dilsukhnagar blast case. Officials said Riyaz is currently living a lavish life at a house in Karachi.

Riyaz's financial prosperity, a result of deciding to sail with the ISI, is what led to the IM split, an NIA source said. His decision was contrary to that of former IM members such as Shafi Armar who is reportedly in Syria luring Indians to join the ranks of the Islamic State (IS) - and others, who wanted to further the cause of either al-Qaida or the IS.

As Riyaz reportedly has a passport issued by Pakistan, NIA officials are finding it difficult to track his movements and nab him.

To execute the blasts, Riyaz sent Rs 1.25 lakh through hawala and a legitimate money transfer channel. After the blasts, he wired nearly Rs 70,000 to his associates from the United Arab Emirates. Riyaz was constantly in touch with Yasin Bhatkal, who kept changing his location, before executing the Dilsukhnagar terror strike from Pakistan, the NIA source said.

Riyaz, who wanted to avenge alleged anti-Muslim activities in Hyderabad, directed the trio, the planters Asadullah Akhtar, alias Haddi, Mohd Tahseen Akhtar, alias Hasan and Zia-ur-Rahman, alias Waqas, to join Yasin and execute the twin blasts in Dilsukhnagar and other places across the country. A day before the blast, Riyaz told Yasin that a blast would be triggered and asked him to pray for its success.

wikipedia

Initially, Yasin wanted picric acid to be used in the manufacture of the bomb, but others turned down his suggestion as it was difficult to arrange the compound.

Riyaz arranged 50 detonators to prepare improvised explosive devices (IEDs) used in the twin blasts, the NIA said. Throughout the conspiracy , he was in touch with his associates through Yahoo messenger.

The Dilsukhnagar blasts were financed by Riyaz through Western Union money transfer and hawala channels. Riyaz was particular Asadullah purchase a mobile and keep the phone switched on a particular day to receive information about the delivery of explosive from an unknown person, NIA officials said, expanding on the extent of his role in the blasts.

Originally published in Times of India