Roles for Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner come into focus

Roles for Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner come into focus Updated 1349 GMT (2149 HKT) December 15, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights "No decisions have been made regarding Ivanka's role," Hicks said Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were reportedly house-hunting in Georgetown Sunday Ivanka Trump is poised to play an active role in her father's administration, assuming some of the duties normally assigned to the first lady. Presidency. Two of my children, Don and Eric, plus executives, will manage them. No new deals will be done during my term(s) in office. CNN's Phil Mattingly contributed to this report.

Story highlights "No decisions have been made regarding Ivanka's role," Hicks said

Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were reportedly house-hunting in Georgetown Sunday

Washington (CNN) Ivanka Trump is poised to play an active role in her father's administration, assuming some of the duties normally assigned to the first lady.

Trump transition aides are already planning for an "Office of the First Family," in the East Wing where the current office of the first lady is located, sources familiar with the plan told CNN.

Melania Trump is still expected to play a role in the White House. However, Ivanka is expected to have a prominent slot as well. A source said she is likely to play the part of Washington hostess as well as advise her father on issues including family leave to climate change.

"No decisions have been made regarding Ivanka's role," Hope Hicks, Trump's spokeswoman, told CNN.

Titles for Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, have not been determined. Kushner, a publisher and businessman, is moving closer to finalizing what his specific role will be and two things have become a near certainty: it will be in the West Wing and he will likely have an office there, according to a source with knowledge of the planning.

Read More