LOOK: Obamas' Holiday Card Doesn't Mention Christmas for 8th Year

LOOK: Obamas' Holiday Card Doesn't Mention Christmas for 8th Year // // // // Last White House Christmas card for Obama family pic.twitter.com/OAKDgeJiAY — West Wing Reports (@WestWingReport) December 9, 2016 The First Family sent out their final "holiday card" while in the White House and just like the previous seven, it did not mention Christmas. Conservatives, including Sarah Palin, were quick to point it out on social media. "Merry Christ... er... scratch that. "We Are the Obamas and It's Some Random Holiday!" https://t.co/lyXGK4woql — Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) December 11, 2016 The Christian Obama family was featured on the card in a photo that was snapped at a state dinner for Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The message reads: Happy Holidays, As our family reflects on our many happy years spent in the White House, we are grateful for the friends we’ve made, the joy we’ve shared, and the gifts of kindness we’ve received. We wish you and your loved ones a joyous holiday season and a wonderful new year. The New York Post pointed out that Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush, included Bible verses on the Christmas cards sent during his administration. The paper also notes that Obama is not the first U.S. president to offer a generic holiday greeting. President-elect Donald Trump has taken a vocal stance against the so-called "war on Christmas," declaring just days ago that "we're going to start saying Merry Christmas again." President-elect @realDonaldTrump : "We're going to start saying 'Merry Christmas' again!" pic.twitter.com/kzpTKri4sp — Fox News (@FoxNews) December 10, 2016

Last White House Christmas card for Obama family pic.twitter.com/OAKDgeJiAY — West Wing Reports (@WestWingReport) December 9, 2016

Indiana Town Removes Cross From Christmas Tree

Message to Trump? LeBron Sports a Safety Pin in SI Cover Photo

The First Family sent out their final "holiday card" while in the White House and just like the previous seven, it did not mention Christmas.

Conservatives, including Sarah Palin, were quick to point it out on social media.

"Merry Christ... er... scratch that. "We Are the Obamas and It's Some Random Holiday!" https://t.co/lyXGK4woql — Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) December 11, 2016

The Christian Obama family was featured on the card in a photo that was snapped at a state dinner for Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

The message reads:

Happy Holidays, As our family reflects on our many happy years spent in the White House, we are grateful for the friends we’ve made, the joy we’ve shared, and the gifts of kindness we’ve received. We wish you and your loved ones a joyous holiday season and a wonderful new year.

The New York Post pointed out that Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush, included Bible verses on the Christmas cards sent during his administration. The paper also notes that Obama is not the first U.S. president to offer a generic holiday greeting.

President-elect Donald Trump has taken a vocal stance against the so-called "war on Christmas," declaring just days ago that "we're going to start saying Merry Christmas again."

Christmas Spirit! Customer's Photo of Injured Chick-fil-A Worker Goes Viral

Police Officer Asked to Leave College Class for Wearing His Uniform

Tucker Battles College Student Organizing Inauguration Day Walk-Out