Lamar Odom To Document His Road To Recovery In New Reality Series
Lamar Odom To Document His Road To Recovery In New Reality Series
Basketball player Lamar Odom will reportedly document his road to recovery in front of the cameras for a new reality series, Us Weekly reported Wednesday. Sometime last week, Odom voluntarily entered rehab near San Diego, California, more than one year after he was found unconscious in a Nevada brothel due to a nearly fatal drug overdose . The new reality series will focus on Odom’s recovery and struggle to stay sober, but little else is known about the project, which will most likely wind up on E!, if he chooses to stay on the same network as his ex-wife, Khloe Kardashian. In a statement to The Huffington Post, Odom’s lawyer Walter Mosley said, “Lamar is still a free agent with respect to his television rights and he looks forward to exploring the opportunity to work in television again in 2017. We’re going to aggressively try to find a place for him.” Odom has admitted to using drugs in the past, as he was was suspended twice by the NBA over a period of eight months in 2001 for violating the league’s anti-drug policies. He also entered rehab after being arrested for a DUI back in 2013, but apparently checked out soon after. “It was his own decision. He wanted to work on his mental and physical health for the next chapter of his life,” a source told E! News about his recent decision to go back to rehab. “He has not fallen off the wagon, but he understands the importance of maintaining his sobriety.” ALSO ON HUFFPOST The Kardashians       Share this slide:       MORE:

Basketball player Lamar Odom will reportedly document his road to recovery in front of the cameras for a new reality series, Us Weekly reported Wednesday.

The new reality series will focus on Odom’s recovery and struggle to stay sober, but little else is known about the project, which will most likely wind up on E!, if he chooses to stay on the same network as his ex-wife, Khloe Kardashian.

In a statement to The Huffington Post, Odom’s lawyer Walter Mosley said, “Lamar is still a free agent with respect to his television rights and he looks forward to exploring the opportunity to work in television again in 2017. We’re going to aggressively try to find a place for him.”

Odom has admitted to using drugs in the past, as he was was suspended twice by the NBA over a period of eight months in 2001 for violating the league’s anti-drug policies. He also entered rehab after being arrested for a DUI back in 2013, but apparently checked out soon after.

“It was his own decision. He wanted to work on his mental and physical health for the next chapter of his life,” a source told E! News about his recent decision to go back to rehab. “He has not fallen off the wagon, but he understands the importance of maintaining his sobriety.”

This post has been updated to include a statement from Odom’s representatives.