Business Travelers Will Pay Less To Fly In 2017 Despite Airlines' Efforts To Limit Capacity Growth
Business Travelers Will Pay Less To Fly In 2017 Despite Airlines' Efforts To Limit Capacity Growth
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Dan Reed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The biggest U.S. airlines finally are getting serious about reversing the steady decline in recent years of the average price of their fares, but the smart folks at American Express Global Business Travel  – part of the world’s largest travel services company - say that's not enough to keep fare prices from falling again in 2017. AmEx, the parent of the world’s largest travel agency and a major player in corporate travel cost management through its American Express charge card business, said Wednesday that it expects the kind of fares purchased by business travelers for short haul travel with North America to decline, on average, by 2.5% to 5.5% next year. Average long haul fares for travel both within North America and to/from North America should fall between 0.2% and 4.6%, according to AmEx’s annual Global Travel Forecast, released Wednesday. Travelers check-in at the Southwest Airlines Co. ticket counter inside John Wayne Airport  in Santa Ana, California. Many U.S. carriers, including Southwest have begun to scale back aggressive capacity growth plans in response to declines in the average price of the fares they sell. Photographer: Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg ‘Economy’ fares – the kind bought by vacationers and business travelers willing to accept restrictions on such things as the ability to change travel plans or get ticket refunds,  seating choices, and date- and time-of-travel – should decline around 3% for short haul trips, and around 1.5% for long haul trips, according to AmEx's forecast. The average price in all of those fare categories fell from 2013 to 2014, from 2014 to 2015, and again so far this year. But the news for travelers isn’t all positive. AmEx officials also forecast that hotel room prices will rise by between 2% and 4.6% in North America, with smaller increases expected in parts of the world with even small declines in hotel rates being possible in certain parts of Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Travel demand, especially in North America, remains strong. But stiff competition amidst a global glut of airline seating capacity, low fuel prices, and slowing economies in many foreign markets (especially China) are combining to keep the average fare price that U.S. air travelers pay moving downward. According to the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics, the average fare paid by U.S. travelers in 1995 was $454, adjusted for inflation and expressed in 2016 dollars. That figure peaked at $461, again in 2016 dollars, in 1999 but has declined nearly 23% since then. So far this year, the average fare is just $361. And short haul fares – of which far more are bought - have fallen more than have long haul and international fares. The Big Three U.S. carriers – American, Delta and United – have slammed the brakes on their previously aggressive capacity growth plans by slowing down, cancelling or deferring deliveries of new planes they previously ordered. They’re even in the process of rolling out ultra-Spartan fares/service products called ‘Basic Economy’ fares to keep  the most price-sensitive travelers from defecting to  ultra-low cost rivals like Allegiant, Spirit and Frontier, and to ‘encourage’ somewhat less price sensitive travelers to buy slightly higher priced fares that still continue to come with benefits like frequent flier miles, advanced seat selection and the right to carry two bags onboard.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The biggest U.S. airlines finally are getting serious about reversing the steady decline in recent years of the average price of their fares, but the smart folks at American Express Global Business Travel – part of the world’s largest travel services company - say that's not enough to keep fare prices from falling again in 2017.

AmEx, the parent of the world’s largest travel agency and a major player in corporate travel cost management through its American Express charge card business, said Wednesday that it expects the kind of fares purchased by business travelers for short haul travel with North America to decline, on average, by 2.5% to 5.5% next year. Average long haul fares for travel both within North America and to/from North America should fall between 0.2% and 4.6%, according to AmEx’s annual Global Travel Forecast, released Wednesday.

‘Economy’ fares – the kind bought by vacationers and business travelers willing to accept restrictions on such things as the ability to change travel plans or get ticket refunds, seating choices, and date- and time-of-travel – should decline around 3% for short haul trips, and around 1.5% for long haul trips, according to AmEx's forecast.

The average price in all of those fare categories fell from 2013 to 2014, from 2014 to 2015, and again so far this year.

But the news for travelers isn’t all positive. AmEx officials also forecast that hotel room prices will rise by between 2% and 4.6% in North America, with smaller increases expected in parts of the world with even small declines in hotel rates being possible in certain parts of Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Travel demand, especially in North America, remains strong. But stiff competition amidst a global glut of airline seating capacity, low fuel prices, and slowing economies in many foreign markets (especially China) are combining to keep the average fare price that U.S. air travelers pay moving downward.

According to the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics, the average fare paid by U.S. travelers in 1995 was $454, adjusted for inflation and expressed in 2016 dollars. That figure peaked at $461, again in 2016 dollars, in 1999 but has declined nearly 23% since then. So far this year, the average fare is just $361. And short haul fares – of which far more are bought - have fallen more than have long haul and international fares.

The Big Three U.S. carriers – American, Delta and United – have slammed the brakes on their previously aggressive capacity growth plans by slowing down, cancelling or deferring deliveries of new planes they previously ordered. They’re even in the process of rolling out ultra-Spartan fares/service products called ‘Basic Economy’ fares to keep the most price-sensitive travelers from defecting to ultra-low cost rivals like Allegiant, Spirit and Frontier, and to ‘encourage’ somewhat less price sensitive travelers to buy slightly higher priced fares that still continue to come with benefits like frequent flier miles, advanced seat selection and the right to carry two bags onboard.