'Despicable Me 3' Trailer Introduces Gru's New Villain (And His '80s Dance Moves)
'Despicable Me 3' Trailer Introduces Gru's New Villain (And His '80s Dance Moves)
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks 'Despicable Me 3' Trailer Introduces Gru's New Villain (And His '80s Dance Moves)  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Trey Parker, who co-created "South Park" & Broadway's "Book of Mormon," voices the villain, a former child star who has grown up to become obsessed with the character he played onscreen. The first trailer for has arrived, and it offers a thorough introduction to Gru's newest nemesis: Balthazar Bratt. Trey Parker — the co-creator of and the Broadway hit — voices the villain, a former child star who has grown up to become obsessed with the character he played in the ‘80s. Of course, Balthazar (and his shoulder pads) and Gru get into a dance battle.  Steve Carell and Kristen Wiig reprise their voice roles in Universal's animated, minion-filled threequel, directed by Pierre Coffin and Kyle Balda, co-directed by Eric Guillon and written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio. hits theaters June 30, 2017. Watch the trailer for below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Trey Parker, who co-created "South Park" & Broadway's "Book of Mormon," voices the villain, a former child star who has grown up to become obsessed with the character he played onscreen.

The first trailer for Despicable Me 3 has arrived, and it offers a thorough introduction to Gru's newest nemesis: Balthazar Bratt.

Trey Parker — the co-creator of South Park and the Broadway hit The Book of Mormon — voices the villain, a former child star who has grown up to become obsessed with the character he played in the ‘80s. Of course, Balthazar (and his shoulder pads) and Gru get into a dance battle.

Steve Carell and Kristen Wiig reprise their voice roles in Universal's animated, minion-filled threequel, directed by Pierre Coffin and Kyle Balda, co-directed by Eric Guillon and written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio.

Despicable Me 3 hits theaters June 30, 2017.

Watch the trailer for Despicable Me 3 below.

This article was originally published by The Hollywood Reporter.