Retirement Rules
Retirement Rules


Rex Tillerson says Russia can either keep backing Assad as he faces defeat or side with the US to secure Syria's future after declaring 'the reign of the Assad family is coming to an end'.

The US Secretary of State, who is preparing for crunch talks in Moscow, says the Kremlin must now choose between aligning itself with the U.S. and like-minded countries or embracing Assad, Iran and the militant group Hezbollah.

It comes as G7 nations agreed that Syrian president Bashar al-Assad must step down as part of any peace solution in the war-torn country.

Top diplomats from the group were agreed that 'no future in Syria is possible' with the dictator still in power France's Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at a G7 meeting in Italy.

G7 nations have agreed that Syrian president Bashar al-Assad (pictured) must step down as part of any peace solution in the war-torn country

The G7 officials met in Italy today. Pictured, from left: EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland, Italy Foreign Minister Angelino Alfano, French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida

US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson (pictured, centre) said it was clear that the 'reign of the Assad family is coming to an end'

America unleashed a wave of 59 Tomahawk strikes on one of Assad's airbases in the wake of a horrifying chemical attack on 87 Syrian civilians last week

America unleashed a wave of 59 Tomahawk strikes on one of Assad's airbases in the wake of a horrifying chemical attack on 87 Syrian civilians last week.

Russia - which has backed the Syrian dictator military - as well as Iran and its allies said the US had crossed a 'red line' and warned they 'will respond to any aggression' in the future.

A summit of ministers from the powerful G7 nations in Italy today ended without agreement on punitive measures on Russia and Syria despite calls for tough sanctions from Britain's foreign secretary Boris Johnson.

But the diplomats have agreed that Assad cannot stay on as Syrian president.

Tillerson said it was unclear whether Russia had failed to take seriously its obligation to rid Syria of chemical weapons, or had merely been incompetent. But he said the distinction 'doesn't much matter to the dead.'

'We cannot let this happen again,' the secretary of state said.

'We want to relieve the suffering of the Syrian people. Russia can be a part of that future and play an important role,' Tillerson added in remarks to reporters. 'Or Russia can maintain its alliance with this group, which we believe is not going to serve Russia's interests longer term.'

A summit of ministers from the powerful G7 nations in Italy today ended without agreement on punitive measures on Russia and Syria despite calls for tough sanctions from Britain's foreign secretary Boris Johnson (right)

Since the U.S. launched airstrikes against Assad's forces in retaliation for a chemical attack on civilians last week, Trump administration officials have offered mixed messages about whether Washington believes Assad definitely must surrender power - and when.

Tillerson said it was clear the U.S. saw no role for Assad in Syria's future, given that he had lost legitimacy.

'It is clear to all of us that the reign of the Assad family is coming to an end,' he said. 'But the question of how that ends and the transition itself could be very important in our view to the durability, the stability inside of a unified Syria.'

'That's why we are not presupposing how that occurs,' Tillerson added.

Tillerson spoke after a meeting of the 'like-minded' countries was hastily arranged on the sidelines of the summit of the Group of Seven industrialised economies in Italy, days after the U.S. for the first time launched airstrikes against Assad's forces.

A key focus since the chemical attack has been on increasing pressure on Russia, Assad's strongest ally, which has used its own military to keep Assad in power.

The U.S. and others have said that Russia bears responsibility for the deaths of civilians at the hands of Assad given Moscow's role in guaranteeing the 2013 deal in which Assad was supposed to have given up his chemical weapons arsenal.

Since the U.S. launched airstrikes against Assad's forces in retaliation for a chemical attack (pictured) on civilians last week, Trump administration officials have offered mixed messages about whether Washington believes Assad definitely must surrender power - and when

A devastated father has been pictured cradling the bodies of his dead twins after they were killed during the chemical attack in Khan Sheikhoun, in the rebel-held central province of Idlib, Syria

The U.S. raised the stakes significantly on Monday when a senior U.S. official said Washington has made a preliminary conclusion that Russia knew in advance of Syria's chemical weapons attack.

Yet the U.S. has no proof of Moscow's involvement, said the official, who wasn't authorized to speak publicly on intelligence matters and demanded anonymity.

That accusation will hang over Tillerson's visit to Moscow, where he plans with meet with Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, and possibly with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The Kremlin declined to say whether Putin would meet with Tillerson, in line with its usual practice of not announcing such meetings ahead of time.

The United States has sought to minimise expectations for the trip or the likelihood that the U.S. will leave with any concessions from Russia regarding its support for Assad.

Instead, the U.S. is hoping to use the visit - the first by a Trump Cabinet official to Russia - to convey its expectations to Moscow and then allow the Russians a period of time to respond.

Today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Russia had information that the United States was planning to launch new missile strikes on Syria.

He also indicated there were plans to fake chemicals weapons attacks there.

Russian President Vladimir Putin (pictured today) said Russia had information that the United States was planning to launch new missile strikes on Syria, and that there were plans to fake chemicals weapons attacks there

Standing alongside Italian President Sergio Mattarella who was in Moscow for talks, Putin said: 'We have information that a similar provocation is being prepared ... in other parts of Syria including in the southern Damascus suburbs where they are planning to again plant some substance and accuse the Syrian authorities of using (chemical weapons).'

He did not offer any proof for that assertion.

The Russian military said Syrian militants are preparing to use chemical weapons and blame the Syrian government for the attacks in order to provoke more U.S. strikes.

Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoi of the military's General Staff said rebels are currently stockpiling toxic agents in the areas of Khan Sheikhoun, the Jira air base and west of Aleppo, as well as Eastern Ghouta near Damascus.

Rudskoi said the militants' aim is 'to create another pretext for accusing the Syrian government of using chemical weapons and provoking new U.S. strikes.'

The U.S. last week struck a Syrian air base it said was used for a chemical weapons attack in Khan Sheikhoun. Russia has insisted that the Syrian government wasn't involved in the attack.

Putin also said today that Russia would be urgently asking the global chemical weapons watchdog - the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons - to investigate the incident.

Though intended to punish Assad for a chemical weapons attack, the U.S. strikes last week served to refocus the world's attention on the bloody war in Syria, now in its seventh year.

Diplomats gathered in Italy as U.S. officials in Washington floated the possibility of new sanctions on the Syrian and Russian military, plus the threat of additional U.S. military action if Assad's government continues attacking civilians.

At Tuesday's meeting in the walled Tuscan city of Lucca, the G7 countries were joined by diplomats from Muslim-majority nations including Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.

The inclusion of those countries is important because the U.S. strategy for Syria involves enlisting help from Mideast nations to ensure security and stability in Syria after the Islamic State group is vanquished.