Loneliness at Christmas: how are you tackling it?

An ageing and more transient population, and changes to the way we make social connections, are responsible for more lonely people than ever before. But even for the most experienced among us, the pang of loneliness and isolation is often never more pronounced than it is at Christmas . Befriending networks and charities promote their services more intensely during the Christmas period. For those who will spend the holidays alone – a time when many people are visiting family, and seeing friends – these charities can provide much-needed company and assistance. Amongst older people, rates of chronic loneliness have remained steady since the 1940s; with 6-13% of people over the age of 65 reporting they feel lonely ‘all or most of the time’ according to the ONS. In the UK, 1 in 12 of the population is projected to be aged 80 and over by 2037 ; loneliness, then, is on the rise. But it isn’t just those over 65 who experience a lack of social and support networks. According to the Mental Health Foundation , 18-34 year-olds are more likely to feel lonely more often, to worry about feeling alone, and to feel depressed because of loneliness than those over 55. Those, from all age groups, who report bad health are more likely to be socially isolated, and are more than 2.5 times more likely to report feeling lonely than those reporting good health . If you work for a charity helping those who feel socially isolated, feel lonely or socially isolated, or have accessed a befriending network over the Christmas period we’d like to hear from you. You can share your experiences with us using the form below. We’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting. Topics  Christmas   Mental health   Social exclusion

An ageing and more transient population, and changes to the way we make social connections, are responsible for more lonely people than ever before. But even for the most experienced among us, the pang of loneliness and isolation is often never more pronounced than it is at Christmas.

Befriending networks and charities promote their services more intensely during the Christmas period. For those who will spend the holidays alone – a time when many people are visiting family, and seeing friends – these charities can provide much-needed company and assistance.

Amongst older people, rates of chronic loneliness have remained steady since the 1940s; with 6-13% of people over the age of 65 reporting they feel lonely ‘all or most of the time’ according to the ONS. In the UK, 1 in 12 of the population is projected to be aged 80 and over by 2037; loneliness, then, is on the rise.

But it isn’t just those over 65 who experience a lack of social and support networks. According to the Mental Health Foundation, 18-34 year-olds are more likely to feel lonely more often, to worry about feeling alone, and to feel depressed because of loneliness than those over 55. Those, from all age groups, who report bad health are more likely to be socially isolated, and are more than 2.5 times more likely to report feeling lonely than those reporting good health.

If you work for a charity helping those who feel socially isolated, feel lonely or socially isolated, or have accessed a befriending network over the Christmas period we’d like to hear from you. You can share your experiences with us using the form below. We’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting.