Judge rejects Trump plea to avoid deposition in José Andrés case

A D.C. Superior Court judge ordered Wednesday that President-elect Donald Trump sit for a deposition in his legal dispute with chef José Andrés during the first week of January, just ahead of his Jan. 20 swearing-in. Judge Jennifer A. Di Toro ruled that Trump could be deposed by the chef’s attorneys for up to seven hours in New York City. Attorneys for the two sides did not immediately return calls seeking comment. The feud began when the chef backed out of a deal to open a restaurant in Trump’s luxury hotel in the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue. Andrés cited Trump’s derogatory comments on the campaign trail about illegal immigrants, saying they made it impossible for him to run a successful eatery. Trump sued, seeking $10 million in damages. In recent days attorneys representing Trump’s company sought to avoid the deposition or at least limit the questioning. In court papers, they argued that Trump was “extremely busy handling matters of very significant public importance” as well as that he wasn’t all that familiar with the case, saying Trump “has not been involved in this dispute and, therefore, has only limited knowledge of the facts at issue.” If the deposition had to take place, his attorneys argued that it only last two hours and that the chef’s attorneys not be permitted to ask “duplicative” questions to those asked in a similar case between Trump and another chef, Geoffrey Zakarian. Such questions would be “harassing, annoying, and oppressive” to Trump, they argued. Judge Di Toro wasn’t having it, however, issuing a court order Wednesday denying Trump’s motion and writing that “the Court will neither limit the length nor scope of Mr. Trump’s deposition.” Zakaria — like Andrés — scrapped plans to open a restaurant at the hotel after Trump’s incendiary rhetoric created controversy. In that case, Trump sat for a depostion in June at a D.C. law firm. Andrés recently offered an olive branch on Twitter: Mr. @realDonaldTrump can we end our lawsuits and we donate $ to a Veterans NGO to celebrate? Why keep litigating? Let's both of us win.. — José Andrés (@chefjoseandres) December 13, 2016 Follow Jonathan O’Connell on Twitter: @oconnellpostbiz



President-elect Donald Trump speaks to the media during a news conference at the construction site of the Trump International Hotel at the Old Post Office Building in Washington in March. (Reuters/Jim Bourg)

A D.C. Superior Court judge ordered Wednesday that President-elect Donald Trump sit for a deposition in his legal dispute with chef José Andrés during the first week of January, just ahead of his Jan. 20 swearing-in.

Judge Jennifer A. Di Toro ruled that Trump could be deposed by the chef’s attorneys for up to seven hours in New York City. Attorneys for the two sides did not immediately return calls seeking comment.

The feud began when the chef backed out of a deal to open a restaurant in Trump’s luxury hotel in the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue. Andrés cited Trump’s derogatory comments on the campaign trail about illegal immigrants, saying they made it impossible for him to run a successful eatery. Trump sued, seeking $10 million in damages.

[Donald Trump set to be deposed in José Andrés case just before inauguration]

In recent days attorneys representing Trump’s company sought to avoid the deposition or at least limit the questioning.

In court papers, they argued that Trump was “extremely busy handling matters of very significant public importance” as well as that he wasn’t all that familiar with the case, saying Trump “has not been involved in this dispute and, therefore, has only limited knowledge of the facts at issue.”

If the deposition had to take place, his attorneys argued that it only last two hours and that the chef’s attorneys not be permitted to ask “duplicative” questions to those asked in a similar case between Trump and another chef, Geoffrey Zakarian. Such questions would be “harassing, annoying, and oppressive” to Trump, they argued.

Judge Di Toro wasn’t having it, however, issuing a court order Wednesday denying Trump’s motion and writing that “the Court will neither limit the length nor scope of Mr. Trump’s deposition.”

Zakaria — like Andrés — scrapped plans to open a restaurant at the hotel after Trump’s incendiary rhetoric created controversy. In that case, Trump sat for a depostion in June at a D.C. law firm.

Andrés recently offered an olive branch on Twitter:

Mr. @realDonaldTrump can we end our lawsuits and we donate $ to a Veterans NGO to celebrate? Why keep litigating? Let's both of us win.. — José Andrés (@chefjoseandres) December 13, 2016

Keith L. Alexander and Emily Heil contributed to this report.

Follow Jonathan O’Connell on Twitter: @oconnellpostbiz