Parent says Morehead State basketball coach Sean Woods head-butted his son
Parent: Morehead St. coach head-butted my son
Parent: Morehead St. coach head-butted my son How good is Kentucky? We're about to find out UNC's Berry set to return to lineup vs. Kentucky 5-star C Wiley enrolls, can play now for Auburn Morehead St. coach resigns after investigation Kansas reinstates Bragg after charge dismissed Suspended SC guard Thornwell arrested in May IU's Anunoby to return after 3-game absence Weekend picks: North Carolina KO's Kentucky in a Saturday of thrillers PJ Dozier keeps it in the family at South Carolina At 5-foot-9, CMU's Marcus Keene is shooting for the record books Think Lonzo Ball is great? Meet his two UCLA-bound brothers 1 Related Year of the Freshmen: Complete coverage Villanova's Big 5 record has implications beyond the city Why panic? Because it's time to panic Syracuse to wear sneakers honoring Pearl Washington How AAU metrics predicted success of Texas A&M's Robert Williams Princeton loses Caruso (toe) for rest of season Woman names dog after Roy Williams, coach sends letter after dog dies College hoops Power Rankings: The curse is over ... for now Frustrated UNLV fans, be patient Bill Self, Rick Pitino notch milestone wins No. 7 North Carolina escapes scare vs. Tennessee No. 1 guard Trevon Duval says it all with dunk UCLA basketball is fun again W. Michigan's Kennedy charged with murder Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covers college basketball Joined ESPN.com in 2011 Graduate of Minnesota State University, Mankato Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Morehead State basketball coach Sean Woods allegedly head-butted one of his players last year, the father of the athlete told ESPN on Wednesday. Edson Maitland, the father of Malik Maitland , said his son told him Woods head-butted him late last season but quickly apologized, asked for forgiveness and promised it would never happen again. He said his son told him he reported the incident to the team's trainer. Edson Maitland is now asking Morehead State to terminate Woods, who is suspended indefinitely with pay after he was charged Tuesday with misdemeanor battery for allegedly assaulting Malik Maitland and Soufiyane Diakite last month. "We are very, extremely disappointed in coach Woods," Edson Maitland told ESPN, as he read from a prepared statement on behalf of his family. "He came into our home and violated our trust, the trust that we put in him as a coach. Not only did we ask him to coach our son, but to treat our son just as he would treat his own son. He was reckless with willful intention in his action toward my son, inflicting such a pain on him. "This is not the first time he violated our trust because last year, during the season, he head-butted my son and turned around and asked him to forgive him, and he apologized, and my son accepted his apology, and [he] said he would never do it again. And as for the school, I'm still waiting for a response from them and to take corrective action and appropriate action without any form of a delay, saying they're still investigating. And as for all the assistants that are there working, I'm appalled, because they are an extension of Coach Woods, and I think the NCAA should step in and take appropriate action." Woods was charged with misdemeanor battery, according to court documents obtained by WTVQ, after he allegedly backhanded Malik Maitland in his chest at halftime of a Nov. 19 matchup at Evansville and shoved Diakite during and after the game. Edson Maitland said his son told him about the alleged assault after the matchup. Woods, who played with "The Unforgettables" Kentucky squad that reached the Elite Eight in 1992, was suspended three days after the game at Evansville. Evansville Sgt. Patrick McDonald said misdemeanor battery in Indiana is defined as any alleged assault that results in a "complaint of pain" from an alleged victim. It does not mean anyone was injured, he said. In 2012, in his first season with Morehead's program, Woods was suspended for shoving former player Devon Atkinson during a game. Edson Maitland said he wants Woods terminated and legally punished for his actions. "I not only want him gone, I want him prosecuted to the full length of the law," he said. When asked for a response to Tuesday's charges, Morehead State spokesman Nick Evans referred to the statement the school distributed after it suspended Woods last month. "Resulting from complaints received, the institution has begun an investigation involving the head basketball coach," athletic director Brian Hutchinson said in the statement. "While we continue through the formal process, we believe it is prudent to suspend the coach until the investigation is finished." On Wednesday morning, Morehead State said in a statement that the "administrative review process is nearing completion. Once completed, further comment may be made at that time." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Morehead State basketball coach Sean Woods allegedly head-butted one of his players last year, the father of the athlete told ESPN on Wednesday.

Edson Maitland, the father of Malik Maitland, said his son told him Woods head-butted him late last season but quickly apologized, asked for forgiveness and promised it would never happen again. He said his son told him he reported the incident to the team's trainer.

Editor's Picks Morehead State head coach charged with battery Suspended Morehead State coach Sean Woods has been charged with battery after allegedly hitting two of his players during and after a game.

Edson Maitland is now asking Morehead State to terminate Woods, who is suspended indefinitely with pay after he was charged Tuesday with misdemeanor battery for allegedly assaulting Malik Maitland and Soufiyane Diakite last month.

"We are very, extremely disappointed in coach Woods," Edson Maitland told ESPN, as he read from a prepared statement on behalf of his family. "He came into our home and violated our trust, the trust that we put in him as a coach. Not only did we ask him to coach our son, but to treat our son just as he would treat his own son. He was reckless with willful intention in his action toward my son, inflicting such a pain on him.

"This is not the first time he violated our trust because last year, during the season, he head-butted my son and turned around and asked him to forgive him, and he apologized, and my son accepted his apology, and [he] said he would never do it again. And as for the school, I'm still waiting for a response from them and to take corrective action and appropriate action without any form of a delay, saying they're still investigating. And as for all the assistants that are there working, I'm appalled, because they are an extension of Coach Woods, and I think the NCAA should step in and take appropriate action."

Suspended Morehead State coach Sean Woods has been charged with misdemeanor battery stemming from an incident that occurred during the team's game at Evansville last month. Jim Brown/USA TODAY Sports

Woods was charged with misdemeanor battery, according to court documents obtained by WTVQ, after he allegedly backhanded Malik Maitland in his chest at halftime of a Nov. 19 matchup at Evansville and shoved Diakite during and after the game. Edson Maitland said his son told him about the alleged assault after the matchup.

Woods, who played with "The Unforgettables" Kentucky squad that reached the Elite Eight in 1992, was suspended three days after the game at Evansville.

Evansville Sgt. Patrick McDonald said misdemeanor battery in Indiana is defined as any alleged assault that results in a "complaint of pain" from an alleged victim. It does not mean anyone was injured, he said.

In 2012, in his first season with Morehead's program, Woods was suspended for shoving former player Devon Atkinson during a game.

Edson Maitland said he wants Woods terminated and legally punished for his actions.

"I not only want him gone, I want him prosecuted to the full length of the law," he said.

When asked for a response to Tuesday's charges, Morehead State spokesman Nick Evans referred to the statement the school distributed after it suspended Woods last month.

"Resulting from complaints received, the institution has begun an investigation involving the head basketball coach," athletic director Brian Hutchinson said in the statement. "While we continue through the formal process, we believe it is prudent to suspend the coach until the investigation is finished."

On Wednesday morning, Morehead State said in a statement that the "administrative review process is nearing completion. Once completed, further comment may be made at that time."