Trump’s Wisconsin Crowd Cheers Kanye West, Boos Paul Ryan
Trump's Wisconsin Crowd Cheers Kanye West, Boos Paul Ryan - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER President-elect Donald Trump’s crowd in West Allis, Wisconsin on Tuesday night at his “Thank You” rally booed Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin native, but cheered for rapper Kanye West. Cheers (and some boos) as Paul Ryan takes the stage at Trump rally in Wisconsin. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER — Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) December 14, 2016 “Speaker Paul Ryan I’ve really come…oh no, I’ve come to appreciate him,” Trump said over the crowd booing when he mentioned Ryan, who attended the event.”He has been, I’ll tell you he has been terrific. Honestly, he’s like a fine wine. Every day goes by, I get to appreciate his genius more and more, but now if he ever goes against me, I’m not going to say that.” “We’re going to work on taxes, we’re going to work on Obamacare…oh, we’re going to work on the wall, Paul,” Trump added, and the crowd cheered. Trump on Wisconsin victory: "I give a lot of credit to Paul Ryan." "They campaigned like you never saw before." — Ben Siegel (@benyc) December 14, 2016 A few more boos for @SpeakerRyan when Trump praises him. — Theo Keith (@TheoKeith) December 14, 2016 Although Ryan was booed in his home state, the crowed cheered for Kanye West, who met with Trump at Trump Tower on Tuesday . Cheers for Kanye at Trump Wisconsin rally. (That is a sentence I never thought I would type). — Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) December 14, 2016 At the end of the rally, Trump was given a Packers jersey with the number 45.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

President-elect Donald Trump’s crowd in West Allis, Wisconsin on Tuesday night at his “Thank You” rally booed Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin native, but cheered for rapper Kanye West.

Cheers (and some boos) as Paul Ryan takes the stage at Trump rally in Wisconsin. SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER — Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) December 14, 2016

“Speaker Paul Ryan I’ve really come…oh no, I’ve come to appreciate him,” Trump said over the crowd booing when he mentioned Ryan, who attended the event.”He has been, I’ll tell you he has been terrific. Honestly, he’s like a fine wine. Every day goes by, I get to appreciate his genius more and more, but now if he ever goes against me, I’m not going to say that.”

“We’re going to work on taxes, we’re going to work on Obamacare…oh, we’re going to work on the wall, Paul,” Trump added, and the crowd cheered.

Trump on Wisconsin victory: "I give a lot of credit to Paul Ryan." "They campaigned like you never saw before." — Ben Siegel (@benyc) December 14, 2016

A few more boos for @SpeakerRyan when Trump praises him. — Theo Keith (@TheoKeith) December 14, 2016

Although Ryan was booed in his home state, the crowed cheered for Kanye West, who met with Trump at Trump Tower on Tuesday.

Cheers for Kanye at Trump Wisconsin rally. (That is a sentence I never thought I would type). — Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) December 14, 2016

At the end of the rally, Trump was given a Packers jersey with the number 45.