NBA -- Michael Jordan ruled the pickup games of "Space Jam" set
Why 'Monstars' weren't the most fearsome on set of 'Space Jam'
Why 'Monstars' weren't the most fearsome on set of 'Space Jam' No rest for Isaiah Thomas in first game back from injury Kings looking into Cousins' tirade at columnist 76ers' Noel: 'Too good to be playing 8 minutes' Rockets rewrite single-game 3-point record list Cavs' Andersen suffers season-ending torn ACL Iverson says sitting to rest reflects new era 'Christmas gift?' Dirk envisions December return With Jazz thriving, divorce from Deron Williams a distant memory In wake of  'unacceptable' loss, Bulls' front office deserves most blame System of a downer: Pelicans can't keep up with familiar-looking Rockets Rockets' 3-point pace is remarkable The making of D'Angelo Russell Sevyn Streeter returns to sing 76ers' anthem Bulls' Mirotic faces fine after missing practice Jumping from Pelicans to Rockets revived Eric Gordon Klay Thompson on 60-point game, trade rumors and more Sources: LeBron, CP3 could cash in on new CBA Sources: Curry could cross $200M in new CBA Ray Allen's mother runs into Charlie Villanueva while he's wearing her son's jersey Whiteside on Clips' Jordan: 'He just catches lobs' LeBron James leads Stein's Eastern Conference MVP race Ten things I like and don't like, including Marc Gasol's genius The sneaker that changed history The Air Force 1 still the chosen 1 Craig Sager was reporter first, sideline superstar second Q&A with Swaggy P: His sneaker game is real Warriors showcase giving ways in blowout of short-handed Knicks Draymond Green riled up by Kristaps Porzingis' comments Warriors pass, pass and pass some more Dwyane Wade isn't concerned, but Bulls should be after loss to Bucks Michael Jordan has had some epic advertisements when it comes to promoting the latest shoe in his Air Jordan line. J.A. Adande breaks down why MJ's commercial for the Air Jordan XXI, titled "Let Your Game Speak," will go down as his top NBA shoe ad of all (1:23) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com senior writer since 2007 Around The Horn panelist Formerly at Los Angeles Times Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment For all of the "Space Jam" nostalgia -- be it the movie re-release, the new shoes geared toward taking on Monstars or the retro-themed Air Jordan XIs -- there is one thing that can't be recaptured. It's the epic pickup games that emerged during the filming of the movie in the summer of 1995. Michael Jordan was fresh off the sting of what would turn out to be the last playoff series loss of his career, to the Orlando Magic in the second round. Movie or no movie, he was determined to return to his place atop the NBA. So he ordered the construction of a tented hardwood basketball court on the Warner Bros. studio lot and laced up his Concords. Word got out, and an array of NBA players came through. Besides the movie co-stars such as Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley, Alonzo Mourning and Larry Johnson, there were the likes of Grant Hill, Rod Strickland, Glen Rice, Dennis Rodman, Juwan Howard, Steve Smith and Cedric Ceballos. Shaquille O'Neal came by. Magic Johnson, less than a year shy of his return to the NBA, made an appearance. Reggie Miller showed up for what turned into a clear-out-and-let-em-go-at-it game, with the trash talk flying. "It was like an NBA all-star game every day," said Tracy Murray, who was coming off the third season of his 11-year pro career that summer. Except it had regular-season intensity. So many players showed up that losing meant a two- or three-game wait to get back on the court. Veteran center Olden Polynice came by and made the mistake of thinking, "It's the summertime, they're going to be bulls----ing." "Come to find out, they weren't bulls----ing," Polynice said. Murray credits the cutthroat competition with priming him for a breakout season -- he made 116 more 3-pointers and his scoring average jumped by 11 points, setting him up for a nice free-agent contract that provided the bulk of the $22 million he made in his career. For Jordan, it was the launchpad to the Bulls' record-setting 72-10 season, capped by a championship. Maybe we should credit the singer D'Angelo as well. His first album dropped that summer, and his seductive songs wound up providing the soundtrack to the pickup games on the Warner Bros. lot. "Michael loved that CD," Murray said. Therefore, "Everybody hooped to D'Angelo," Murray said. "Driving up the floor ... 'Brown Sugar.'" Don't think for a second that the neo-soul or even the low stakes of the summer diminished Jordan's ultra-competitive fires. Don MacLean learned that the hard way. It started when Jordan was loosely guarding MacLean, and MacLean (the all-time leading scorer in the old Pac-10 conference) got hot and scored about two-thirds of his team's buckets to send Jordan off a loser on the final game of the night. As MacLean changed clothes and iced his knees, Jordan came by and asked if he'd be back. MacLean had an overseas trip to conduct basketball clinics in Japan, so he couldn't return the following week. Jordan told him, "Thanks for coming, make sure you come back." "I'm thinking: That was cool for him to say that," MacLean said. "Not thinking ..." Jordan was plotting his revenge. When MacLean did show up a couple of weeks later, he played in the first game of the night. "[Jordan] walks on the court, says, 'I got MacLean,' and did not let me touch the ball for the entire game," MacLean said. "And I was trying. And he was not letting me touch the ball. "Right then and there, I was like, 'My God.' For a pickup game in the summer that means nothing, two weeks later, he remembers that. I couldn't believe it." Said Polynice: "That's the true nature of Michael Jordan. It can be two weeks, it can be two years." And that's why, two decades later, no one who was there can forget those summer nights of hooping. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Michael Jordan has had some epic advertisements when it comes to promoting the latest shoe in his Air Jordan line. J.A. Adande breaks down why MJ's commercial for the Air Jordan XXI, titled "Let Your Game Speak," will go down as his top NBA shoe ad of all (1:23)

Editor's note: ESPN.com is counting down the best basketball shoes of all time. But before we reveal our list, our writers are sharing their favorite sneaker tales.

For all of the "Space Jam" nostalgia -- be it the movie re-release, the new shoes geared toward taking on Monstars or the retro-themed Air Jordan XIs -- there is one thing that can't be recaptured. It's the epic pickup games that emerged during the filming of the movie in the summer of 1995.

Michael Jordan was fresh off the sting of what would turn out to be the last playoff series loss of his career, to the Orlando Magic in the second round. Movie or no movie, he was determined to return to his place atop the NBA. So he ordered the construction of a tented hardwood basketball court on the Warner Bros. studio lot and laced up his Concords. Word got out, and an array of NBA players came through.

Editor's Picks The LeBrons, Li'l Penny and the best hoop shoe ads of all time The best spots weren't all about the shoes. With memorable pitchmen like Magic, Larry, Li'l Penny, LeBron and MJ, J.A. Adande ranks the top 10 basketball shoe commercials of all time.

Debating the greatest sneakers of all time Iconic shoes helped shape culture on and off NBA courts. And so did some obscure ones. Our #NBArank All-Time Kicks expert panel tells sneaker tales.

#NBArank All-Time Kicks: Vote for the greatest sneakers ever We're counting down the greatest basketball sneakers of all time, #NBArank style. But first, we're calling all sneakerheads to cast their votes! 2 Related

Besides the movie co-stars such as Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley, Alonzo Mourning and Larry Johnson, there were the likes of Grant Hill, Rod Strickland, Glen Rice, Dennis Rodman, Juwan Howard, Steve Smith and Cedric Ceballos. Shaquille O'Neal came by. Magic Johnson, less than a year shy of his return to the NBA, made an appearance. Reggie Miller showed up for what turned into a clear-out-and-let-em-go-at-it game, with the trash talk flying.

"It was like an NBA all-star game every day," said Tracy Murray, who was coming off the third season of his 11-year pro career that summer.

Except it had regular-season intensity. So many players showed up that losing meant a two- or three-game wait to get back on the court. Veteran center Olden Polynice came by and made the mistake of thinking, "It's the summertime, they're going to be bulls----ing."

"Come to find out, they weren't bulls----ing," Polynice said.

Murray credits the cutthroat competition with priming him for a breakout season -- he made 116 more 3-pointers and his scoring average jumped by 11 points, setting him up for a nice free-agent contract that provided the bulk of the $22 million he made in his career.

For Jordan, it was the launchpad to the Bulls' record-setting 72-10 season, capped by a championship.

Maybe we should credit the singer D'Angelo as well. His first album dropped that summer, and his seductive songs wound up providing the soundtrack to the pickup games on the Warner Bros. lot.

"Michael loved that CD," Murray said.

Therefore, "Everybody hooped to D'Angelo," Murray said. "Driving up the floor ... 'Brown Sugar.'"

When not filming "Space Jam" with the likes of Bill Murray and Bugs, Michael Jordan was taking part in some intense summer ball. Warner Bros./Getty Images

Don't think for a second that the neo-soul or even the low stakes of the summer diminished Jordan's ultra-competitive fires. Don MacLean learned that the hard way.

It started when Jordan was loosely guarding MacLean, and MacLean (the all-time leading scorer in the old Pac-10 conference) got hot and scored about two-thirds of his team's buckets to send Jordan off a loser on the final game of the night.

As MacLean changed clothes and iced his knees, Jordan came by and asked if he'd be back. MacLean had an overseas trip to conduct basketball clinics in Japan, so he couldn't return the following week.

Jordan told him, "Thanks for coming, make sure you come back."

"I'm thinking: That was cool for him to say that," MacLean said. "Not thinking ..."

Jordan was plotting his revenge. When MacLean did show up a couple of weeks later, he played in the first game of the night.

"[Jordan] walks on the court, says, 'I got MacLean,' and did not let me touch the ball for the entire game," MacLean said. "And I was trying. And he was not letting me touch the ball.

"Right then and there, I was like, 'My God.' For a pickup game in the summer that means nothing, two weeks later, he remembers that. I couldn't believe it."

Said Polynice: "That's the true nature of Michael Jordan. It can be two weeks, it can be two years."

And that's why, two decades later, no one who was there can forget those summer nights of hooping.