The $1.25 Golf Ball That Flew Off Costco's Shelves Is Only Growing In Popularity
The $1.25 Golf Ball That Flew Off Costco's Shelves Is Only Growing In Popularity
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Erik Matuszewski       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Titleist is household name when it comes to golf balls, especially the company's hugely popular Pro-V1 line. Kirkland is a household name too. One that makes up 20% of the products you'll find at your nearest Costco, from laundry detergent, pet food and toilet paper to canned foods, beer, automotive products and beauty aids. That's some serious range. The volume wholesaler is now in the $1.5 billion golf ball market too and its signature Kirkland ball has been flying off the shelves. (Photo credit: CostCo) The price point was right from the start. The Kirkland Four-Piece Urethane Cover Golf Ball sells for $29.99 for two dozen, an average of about $1.25 per ball. By comparison, the best-selling ball in golf -- the Titleist Pro-V1 -- retails for $48 a dozen, almost $3 more per ball. What caught a lot of people by surprise, though, was the quality of the Costco balls, which are made in South Korea. MyGolfSpy, which bills itself as the Consumer Reports for the golf equipment industry, recently conducted comprehensive testing that found the metrics of the Kirkland Signature Tour Performance ball equaled or surpassed the ProV1. With a driver, the inexpensive Kirkland flew almost than the sport's most popular ball. MyGolfSpy gave the Kirkland a 10 out of 10 rating. Good luck keeping the balls in stock after that, even at a massive wholesale club like Costco. (Photo credit: MyGolfSpy) The Kirkland ball is listed as " Out of Stock " on the Costco website, with an estimated re-stocking date set for Dec. 20. Once replenished, that inventory will be limited to two 24-ball packs per member. Getting these as a stocking stuffer might be difficult this holiday season; it's actually why I didn't include them in my recent " Best Gifts for Golfers " guide. The balls, not surprisingly, have popped up on auction sites like eBay, with listings of $48.99 for a dozen, $90 for two dozen or $189.99 for 48 balls. Those aren't wholesale club prices there, folks. Costco has declined to say how many of the Kirkland balls have been sold since the launch or generally give any detailed information about the balls at all. It's actually not a bad approach; the company is letting (positive) word of mouth speak for the ball, the same as it has for, say, its high-quality wines. When it comes to the Kirkland brand, Costco's working rule is that those signature products must be equal to or better than the national brands and offer a savings for members. The Kirkland Signature golf ball certainly appears to be just that, especially when it's being favorably compared to the likes of the Titleist Pro V1. I got a chance to test drive the Kirkland ball during a recent trip to Florida, where I was given one by a MyGolfSpy writer who urged me to play it. I held off for a while, sticking to my trusty Pro V1, but eventually opted to tee up the Kirkland on a long par-4. I struck it well, drawing it a bit more than I would have liked, but found the left side of the fairway. I then hit my regular ball from the same spot and struck it about as well as I had any shot all day, dead down the middle.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Titleist is the household name when it comes to golf balls, especially the company's hugely popular Pro-V1 line.

Kirkland is a household name too. One that makes up 20% of the products you'll find at your nearest Costco, from laundry detergent, pet food and toilet paper to canned foods, beer, automotive products and beauty aids. That's some serious range. The volume wholesaler is now in the $1.5 billion golf ball market too and its signature Kirkland ball has been flying off the shelves.

The price point was right from the start. The Kirkland Four-Piece Urethane Cover Golf Ball sells for $29.99 for two dozen, an average of about $1.25 per ball. By comparison, the best-selling ball in golf -- the Titleist Pro-V1 -- retails for $48 a dozen, almost $3 more per ball. What caught a lot of people by surprise, though, was the quality of the Costco balls, which are made in South Korea.

MyGolfSpy, which bills itself as the Consumer Reports for the golf equipment industry, recently conducted comprehensive testing that found the metrics of the Kirkland Signature Tour Performance ball equaled or surpassed the ProV1. With a driver, the inexpensive Kirkland flew almost 10 yards farther than the sport's most popular ball. MyGolfSpy gave the Kirkland a 10 out of 10 rating. Good luck keeping the balls in stock after that, even at a massive wholesale club like Costco.

The Kirkland ball is listed as "Out of Stock" on the Costco website, with an estimated re-stocking date set for Dec. 20. Once replenished, that inventory will be limited to two 24-ball packs per member. Getting these as a stocking stuffer might be difficult this holiday season; it's actually why I didn't include them in my recent "Best Gifts for Golfers" guide.

The balls, not surprisingly, have popped up on auction sites like eBay, with listings of $48.99 for a dozen, $90 for two dozen or $189.99 for 48 balls. Those aren't wholesale club prices there, folks. Costco has declined to say how many of the Kirkland balls have been sold since the launch or generally give any detailed information about the balls at all. It's actually not a bad approach; the company is letting (positive) word of mouth speak for the ball, the same as it has for, say, its high-quality wines.

Also on Forbes:

When it comes to the Kirkland brand, Costco's working rule is that those signature products must be equal to or better than the national brands and offer a savings for members. The Kirkland Signature golf ball certainly appears to be just that, especially when it's being favorably compared to the likes of the Titleist Pro V1.

I got a chance to test drive the Kirkland ball during a recent trip to Florida, where I was given one by a MyGolfSpy writer who urged me to play it. I held off for a while, sticking to my trusty Pro V1, but eventually opted to tee up the Kirkland on a long par-4. I struck it well, drawing it a bit more than I would have liked, but found the left side of the fairway. I then hit my regular ball from the same spot and struck it about as well as I had any shot all day, dead down the middle.