A Man Is Shot in the Back, and Only the Police Are Kept in the Dark
A Man Is Shot in the Back, and Only the Police Are Kept in the Dark
On a warm Tuesday night in the Bronx, a couple of dozen young people took refuge from their stuffy apartments in a courtyard between two redbrick towers in the Melrose Houses. They laughed, drank and smoked freshly rolled blunts as a speaker pumped out rap music. A few minutes before midnight, a gunshot cracked the air outside 305 East 153rd Street, echoing among the towers of the public housing project. People took cover under the green wooden benches in front of the building. Adrian Maldonado, who dealt drugs on a nearby corner, sprinted away from the battered front door, the police said. He made it across the street before collapsing next to a school playground. A bullet had ripped into his back and through his chest. He lay face up, arms out, blood bubbling to his lips. Mr. Maldonado, 24, was declared dead a half-hour later, at 12:22 a.m. on July 20, at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center. Around the Melrose Houses, a story spread like gospel: A 25-year-old woman who had been carrying on an affair with Mr. Maldonado lured him to the building with a phone call and shot him because he had broken off the relationship. Advertisement Yet while the street buzzed with word that the woman was seen with a gun moments after the shooting, none of the people in the courtyard were initially willing to tell the police what they had seen. The project had no security cameras, and officers found little evidence beyond a spent .40-caliber shell casing and an unfired round lying near the building’s door. Advertisement “The whole project knows about it,” Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo, the commander of the 40th Precinct detective squad, said a few days later, frustration in his voice. “The only one they’re not telling is me.” Mr. Maldonado’s death was the 10th murder logged this year in the 40th Precinct, a two-square-mile trapezoid in the South Bronx where deadly violence persists at a high rate even as it has fallen to record lows across much of New York City. To understand what drives the violence, The New York Times has been documenting the murders this year in the precinct, which, with 14 so far, has recorded more than all but two other precincts. The police posted a routine $2,500 reward, and a few people contacted detectives with tips. Two people said they saw Mr. Maldonado’s former lover and two men arrive at the building around the same time as he did. After the shooting, both witnesses said, the woman came outside and handed a pistol to one of the men before all three hurried away. But neither witness was willing to testify before a grand jury, much less at a trial, detectives said. One of the witnesses, who agreed to an interview on the condition of anonymity, said he feared reprisals from the woman’s brothers, who the police said were members of God’s Favorite Children, a violent gang in the Melrose Houses. “The people that did this, you don’t want to mess with them,” he said. Cowed Into Silence Within days of the killing, the investigation fell into the sort of inertia that plagues many homicide cases in the Bronx. Particularly in public housing, gangs that control narcotics trafficking threaten witnesses. Often, tenants refuse even to answer the door when a detective knocks. In the 40th Precinct, the police have faced a similar silence in their efforts to solve the deaths of Freddy Collazo , a 20-year-old gang member gunned down in February, and Jessica White , a 28-year-old mother killed on a playground in June. In two of the precinct’s other unsolved killings this year — those of Jequan Lawrence in August and Kevin Thomas in October — the victims were embroiled in conflicts with criminal groups in their housing developments, according to police investigators. Murder in the 4-0 To understand how murder lives on in a city that has seen crime fall to historic lows, The New York Times is examining the life and death of each person whose murder is recorded this year in the 40th Precinct in the South Bronx .  Jan. 24    Feb. 22    March 7    Dec. 14, 2015    April 4    April 10    May 8    May 11    June 11    July 19    Aug. 8    Aug. 14    Oct. 23    Nov. 2    when we publish the next stories in this series. The killing of Mr. Maldonado was at least the 13th murder since 2010 in the Melrose Houses and the neighboring Jackson Houses, several of them stemming from gang conflict, the police said. Just six of the murders have been solved, and three of those were closed only after federal investigators stepped in and brought a racketeering case. Advertisement Federal investigations have been a potent, if painstakingly slow, alternative for local authorities trying to crack down on gang violence, especially in public housing. The sweeps often ensnare people who can be pressured to share information about other crimes. Sentences in the federal system are much heavier, especially for drug-related offenses, providing a powerful incentive for a defendant to cooperate with the authorities, and the federal rules of evidence can make it easier to prove the existence of a criminal enterprise, prosecutors said. But such investigations take years, so justice, when it does come, is often delayed, and the violence is often long-forgotten by all but those closest to the victim. The wait can torment the victim’s family and friends, while leaving an impression in neighborhoods that the police are not working hard to solve the crime. Mr. Maldonado’s girlfriend, Shalima Jordan, 25, said she was pained by a recent sighting of the woman rumored to have shot him. “Why haven’t they brought her in for questioning?” she asked. The woman did not return several messages that reporters left on three telephones listed under her name and with people at her family’s apartment on Morris Avenue, where records show she has lived her entire life. The Times is not publishing the woman’s name because the police have not declared her a suspect and because the information that might implicate her is circumstantial and based on witnesses unwilling to testify or go public. “We still need a witness who can say, ‘This is what I saw,’” Sergeant LoPuzzo said. Two Different Families Adrian Ramón Maldonado had known brutality and pain since infancy. He was 6 months old when child-welfare investigators took him away from his parents, after he was brought to an emergency room with two broken legs and a fractured skull. It was never determined how he was injured, his adoptive family said. Advertisement He and his younger sister, Wanda, were adopted and raised by Ezequiel and Lillian Nieves in the Forest Houses in the Morrisania neighborhood, a mile and a half northeast of where his birth family lived. His strait-laced parents loved goofy jokes and stressed education. They renamed the children Andrew and Tiffany Nieves. Mr. Maldonado struggled in school, but he showed an aptitude for electronics, making money fixing game consoles for neighbors. In middle school, children bullied him because his skin was much darker than Mr. Nieves’s. “He would come home and say: ‘I hate you. I hate you. They say you’re not my father,’” Mr. Nieves recalled. Hoping to show his son that he was fortunate to be adopted, Mr. Nieves took him to meet his biological family, who lived near Courtlandt Avenue and East 151st Street. The teenager learned that his biological father had been murdered in the Dominican Republic. Still, he was drawn to the cramped apartment where his birth mother, uncles and grandmother lived. The place was filled with the smells of roast pork and rice and beans, and he was fascinated by the chatter of his relatives and their friends, who wore expensive clothes, indulged in alcohol and marijuana and sometimes broke the law, friends and relatives said. Killings in the 40th Precinct The southernmost police precinct in the Bronx has the largest public-housing population in the city. Andrew Jackson Houses BRONX E. 161ST ST. PARK AVE. Melrose Houses WESTCHESTER AVE. Bronxchester Houses John Adams Houses St. Mary’s Park Houses Patterson Houses E. 149TH ST. Betances Houses Mott Haven Houses ST. MARY’S PARK Mitchel Houses Mott Haven E. 138TH ST. HARLEM RIVER Mill Brook Houses BRUCKNER EXPWY. MAJOR DEEGAN EXPWY. Port Morris EAST RIVER MANHATTAN RANDALLS ISLAND Andrew Jackson Houses BRONX Melrose Houses WESTCHESTER AVE. John Adams Houses Patterson Houses Betances Houses E. 149TH ST. Mott Haven Houses ST. MARY’S PARK Mott Haven Mitchel Houses E. 138TH ST. BRUCKNER EXPWY. Mill Brook Houses HARLEM RIVER MAJOR DEEGAN EXPWY. Port Morris EAST RIVER MANHATTAN RANDALLS ISLAND  He started hanging out after school with his uncles, Edgar and Jose Lacen, who had long criminal records for robbery and drugs. Soon, he was dealing marijuana, heroin and crack and going by the name he was given at birth. “He got into drug dealing by watching me and my brothers,” Edgar Lacen said. At 17, Mr. Maldonado dropped out of high school and moved into his grandmother’s apartment. “I lost him to the streets,” Mr. Nieves said. “No matter what advice I would give, he felt like whatever was out there was more important than what I was trying to teach him.” Love and Work Mr. Maldonado proved good at the business: smart and calm, with quick hands, capable of facing down threats with his fists. The money he made attracted girlfriends and gave him an entree to parties and clubs. He remained a solo operator, staking out a small corner of concrete as his turf, taking orders by telephone. He won the respect of several younger men in the area. “He was young but had an old mentality,” said one friend who requested anonymity because he was discussing illegal activities. He called Mr. Maldonado the “quietest gangster you’ve ever known.” Advertisement Mr. Maldonado had almond-shaped eyes and a tooth chipped in a fight. He wore his hair in tight cornrows, sported a gold Cuban-link necklace and favored clothes with labels like Gucci and Prada. He frequented strip clubs and hip-hop shows. When he drank, he preferred Luc Belaire rosé, a French sparkling wine endorsed by rap stars like Rick Ross and DJ Khaled. He always carried a fat roll of cash, the friends said, and was quick to lend money.  Gm ig from me n my ἰF #PrinceAdrian A photo posted by Ἲ4 ἗0®ὁD CLUBPROMOTERἺ5 (@arballa717) on On the street, Mr. Maldonado, whose legal name remained Andrew J. Nieves, was arrested 18 times, mostly on misdemeanor charges. He served eight months in jail in 2013 after a fight with a police officer who had arrested him on drug charges. That October, shortly after his release, Mr. Maldonado met Ms. Jordan, a teacher’s aide, as she went to her job at Public School 1 near Courtlandt Avenue and East 153rd Street. Smitten, he waited for her after work and asked her out. A few months later, he asked her to marry him. She declined, thinking they were too young. Then, in 2014, she became pregnant. “I asked him, ‘Do you think it’s the right time?’” she recalled at a memorial on the corner where he used to sell drugs. “He said yes. He wanted his family. He loved me.” After his son was born, Mr. Maldonado rented a house in Bridgeport, Conn., and threw himself into fatherhood. He was sometimes seen around his Bronx haunts with the bright-eyed boy strapped to him in a baby sling. “My son is the best thing that ever happened to me,” he wrote on his Instagram account in November of last year. “He changed me in so many ways it is too much to explain.” Though he applied for a job as a sanitation worker in Connecticut, Mr. Maldonado still peddled drugs on his corner in the Bronx a few days a week, the friends said. And while he played the family man with Ms. Jordan, the friends said, in April he also resumed an on-again-off-again affair with the woman who lived in the Melrose Houses. “His main problem was that he didn’t know how to leave the females alone,” said Alexis Robinson, a close friend. Advertisement Shortly before their son’s first birthday, Ms. Jordan learned of the affair. She gave Mr. Maldonado an ultimatum, and he broke off his relationship with the woman in the Melrose Houses, repudiating her in front of her friends, Mr. Maldonado’s relatives said. Twice in early July, the woman accosted Mr. Maldonado on the corner where he sold drugs and threatened to kill Ms. Jordan, according to Edward Briggins, a friend of Mr. Maldonado’s who witnessed the arguments. “He apologized to her,” Mr. Briggins recalled. “She said, ‘Unh-unh, I’m going to make you an example.’ She said, ‘I’m going to make you suffer.’” The Other Woman The woman Mr. Maldonado had been slipping off to see when he was in the Bronx comes from a family entangled in the drug trade, police investigators said. Her parents were among 53 people arrested in the Bronx in 2009 in a federal investigation called Operation Rotten Apple, which dismantled a major heroin- and crack-dealing operation in the Melrose Houses and the Jackson Houses. The parents pleaded guilty, admitting they had used the apartment as a storehouse for heroin. Her mother kept a gun under her mattress, court papers said. The woman’s two brothers have long arrest records with charges including assault and drug sales, law enforcement officials said. One brother was arrested on a federal gun-possession charge in February after he sent a videotaped death threat to a former girlfriend, brandishing a pistol, court records show. “Everybody in the precinct knows them,” said Inspector Christopher J. McCormack, who is commander of Bronx Narcotics and who was commander of the 40th Precinct from September 2011 to April 2014. “They’re vicious.” Advertisement Mr. Maldonado’s paramour had been arrested four times on assault charges since 2011. In 2014, she pleaded guilty to attacking a woman who was left with a disfigured nose. At around 9:50 p.m. on July 19, about two hours before the shooting, Ebony Flowers, a former friend of the woman Mr. Maldonado had been seeing, said she was sitting in a playground at the Melrose Houses with her two young sons. Ms. Flowers said she saw the woman walking back and forth between her building and the building where Mr. Maldonado was later shot. Then the woman approached Ms. Flowers. “She just walked past and said, ‘You better pack up your kids and leave,’” Ms. Flowers recalled. Ms. Flowers and several other mothers cleared out of the playground quickly. The Investigation Three blocks from the Melrose Houses, at the apartment where Mr. Maldonado’s grandmother lived, he and Ms. Jordan were relaxing after dinner, playing with their baby boy. Then, at around 11:20, he received a call from a female customer he referred to as “Auntie,” Ms. Jordan recalled. He said he had to go. One person told the police that Mr. Maldonado arrived at the housing development and sat on a bench opposite the building where he would be shot. A car pulled up. Mr. Maldonado climbed inside for a few minutes, before returning to the bench. Minutes later, he answered another phone call, said he would be right back and strode into 305 East 153rd. The witness interviewed by The Times said Mr. Maldonado’s former girlfriend and two men arrived at the courtyard about 20 minutes before Mr. Maldonado and followed him into the high-rise. About 10 minutes later, the witness said, he heard a shot and saw Mr. Maldonado running from the building’s door. Then he said the woman and her companions came out of the building. The woman handed a pistol to one of the men, who tucked in his waistband. “She passed the gun away after the shot,” he said. The police said the other witness also saw the woman hand a gun to one of the men before all three fled toward 156th Street. Advertisement Detectives had questions about these accounts. Both tipsters said the shooting took place in the building’s lobby, but the spent shell casing and the unfired round were found outside. And neither person saw who fired the gun. “We don’t know who the triggerman was,” said Detective Jeff Meenagh, the lead investigator. Detective Meenagh tracked the last call on a cellphone found on Mr. Maldonado’s body to a woman living in the building. She admitted buying $20 worth of crack from Mr. Maldonado in a third-floor hallway, but said she knew nothing about the shooting. She passed a lie-detector test. Investigators never found a second cellphone that Mr. Maldonado owned and that he dropped as he ran, the witness who spoke to The Times told the police. They learned its number from an associate of Mr. Maldonado’s who was arrested in a drug sweep a few days after the murder. Call records show Mr. Maldonado did not receive a call on that phone just before the shooting. To make matters more complicated, the detectives identified the two men seen with Mr. Maldonado’s former lover as violent felons, both recently released from prison. One had been robbing drug dealers in the projects, the police believe. Mr. Maldonado had $126 on him when he was killed and a bag of drugs, but a gold chain he had bought two days earlier was missing, his friends said. Now, investigators say they need more leverage to crack the silence in the Melrose Houses: the arrest of someone who saw the shooting or has detailed, credible knowledge about what happened. In the meantime, Detective Meenagh and his partner, Detective Rick Simplicio, have continued to search for eyewitnesses willing to testify. “When it comes to the projects, it takes a while,” Detective Meenagh said. “The stars aren’t aligned,” Detective Simplicio added. Benjamin Mueller and Nate Schweber contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed research. A version of this article appears in print on December 15, 2016, on Page A1 of the with the headline: Bronx Killing Leaves Only the Police in the Dark.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

The Times is not publishing the woman’s name because the police have not declared her a suspect and because the information that might implicate her is circumstantial and based on witnesses unwilling to testify or go public.

“We still need a witness who can say, ‘This is what I saw,’” Sergeant LoPuzzo said.

Two Different Families

Adrian Ramón Maldonado had known brutality and pain since infancy. He was 6 months old when child-welfare investigators took him away from his parents, after he was brought to an emergency room with two broken legs and a fractured skull. It was never determined how he was injured, his adoptive family said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He and his younger sister, Wanda, were adopted and raised by Ezequiel and Lillian Nieves in the Forest Houses in the Morrisania neighborhood, a mile and a half northeast of where his birth family lived. His strait-laced parents loved goofy jokes and stressed education. They renamed the children Andrew and Tiffany Nieves.

Mr. Maldonado struggled in school, but he showed an aptitude for electronics, making money fixing game consoles for neighbors.

In middle school, children bullied him because his skin was much darker than Mr. Nieves’s. “He would come home and say: ‘I hate you. I hate you. They say you’re not my father,’” Mr. Nieves recalled. Hoping to show his son that he was fortunate to be adopted, Mr. Nieves took him to meet his biological family, who lived near Courtlandt Avenue and East 151st Street.

The teenager learned that his biological father had been murdered in the Dominican Republic. Still, he was drawn to the cramped apartment where his birth mother, uncles and grandmother lived. The place was filled with the smells of roast pork and rice and beans, and he was fascinated by the chatter of his relatives and their friends, who wore expensive clothes, indulged in alcohol and marijuana and sometimes broke the law, friends and relatives said.

Killings in the 40th Precinct The southernmost police precinct in the Bronx has the largest public-housing population in the city. Andrew Jackson Houses BRONX E. 161ST ST. PARK AVE. Melrose Houses WESTCHESTER AVE. Bronxchester Houses John Adams Houses St. Mary’s Park Houses Patterson Houses E. 149TH ST. Betances Houses Mott Haven Houses ST. MARY’S PARK Mitchel Houses Mott Haven E. 138TH ST. HARLEM RIVER Mill Brook Houses BRUCKNER EXPWY. MAJOR DEEGAN EXPWY. Port Morris EAST RIVER MANHATTAN RANDALLS ISLAND Andrew Jackson Houses BRONX Melrose Houses WESTCHESTER AVE. John Adams Houses Patterson Houses Betances Houses E. 149TH ST. Mott Haven Houses ST. MARY’S PARK Mott Haven Mitchel Houses E. 138TH ST. BRUCKNER EXPWY. Mill Brook Houses HARLEM RIVER MAJOR DEEGAN EXPWY. Port Morris EAST RIVER MANHATTAN RANDALLS ISLAND

He started hanging out after school with his uncles, Edgar and Jose Lacen, who had long criminal records for robbery and drugs. Soon, he was dealing marijuana, heroin and crack and going by the name he was given at birth. “He got into drug dealing by watching me and my brothers,” Edgar Lacen said.

At 17, Mr. Maldonado dropped out of high school and moved into his grandmother’s apartment. “I lost him to the streets,” Mr. Nieves said. “No matter what advice I would give, he felt like whatever was out there was more important than what I was trying to teach him.”

Love and Work

Mr. Maldonado proved good at the business: smart and calm, with quick hands, capable of facing down threats with his fists. The money he made attracted girlfriends and gave him an entree to parties and clubs.

He remained a solo operator, staking out a small corner of concrete as his turf, taking orders by telephone. He won the respect of several younger men in the area. “He was young but had an old mentality,” said one friend who requested anonymity because he was discussing illegal activities. He called Mr. Maldonado the “quietest gangster you’ve ever known.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Maldonado had almond-shaped eyes and a tooth chipped in a fight. He wore his hair in tight cornrows, sported a gold Cuban-link necklace and favored clothes with labels like Gucci and Prada.

He frequented strip clubs and hip-hop shows. When he drank, he preferred Luc Belaire rosé, a French sparkling wine endorsed by rap stars like Rick Ross and DJ Khaled. He always carried a fat roll of cash, the friends said, and was quick to lend money.

Gm ig from me n my ἰF #PrinceAdrian A photo posted by Ἲ4 ἗0®ὁD CLUBPROMOTERἺ5 (@arballa717) on Mar 15, 2016 at 8:01am PDT

On the street, Mr. Maldonado, whose legal name remained Andrew J. Nieves, was arrested 18 times, mostly on misdemeanor charges. He served eight months in jail in 2013 after a fight with a police officer who had arrested him on drug charges.

That October, shortly after his release, Mr. Maldonado met Ms. Jordan, a teacher’s aide, as she went to her job at Public School 1 near Courtlandt Avenue and East 153rd Street. Smitten, he waited for her after work and asked her out. A few months later, he asked her to marry him. She declined, thinking they were too young. Then, in 2014, she became pregnant.

“I asked him, ‘Do you think it’s the right time?’” she recalled at a memorial on the corner where he used to sell drugs. “He said yes. He wanted his family. He loved me.”

After his son was born, Mr. Maldonado rented a house in Bridgeport, Conn., and threw himself into fatherhood. He was sometimes seen around his Bronx haunts with the bright-eyed boy strapped to him in a baby sling.

“My son is the best thing that ever happened to me,” he wrote on his Instagram account in November of last year. “He changed me in so many ways it is too much to explain.”

Though he applied for a job as a sanitation worker in Connecticut, Mr. Maldonado still peddled drugs on his corner in the Bronx a few days a week, the friends said. And while he played the family man with Ms. Jordan, the friends said, in April he also resumed an on-again-off-again affair with the woman who lived in the Melrose Houses.