'Onsen summit': Vladimir Putin meets with Japan's Shinzo Abe to 'heal rifts'



'Onsen summit': Vladimir Putin meets with Japan's Shinzo Abe to 'heal rifts'

Updated

It has been dubbed the "onsen summit" — a long-awaited meeting between Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Russian President Vladimir Putin which began in Japan on Thursday night.

In a sign of high honour, Mr Abe has invited Mr Putin to his home prefecture of Yamaguchi in Western Japan (you know, the one that is shaped like Australia?)

Apart from its likeness to the map of Australia, Yamaguchi is home to a vast number of natural hot springs — known in Japan as "onsen".

Mr Abe hopes to introduce Mr Putin to the healing benefits of the Yamaguchi onsen, with the aim of healing the deep rifts that exist between their two nations.

Their dispute relates to four islands in the Pacific Ocean north of Japan's northern island of Hokkaido — Russia controls the islands, but Japan claims territorial rights to them.

But signs for a breakthrough in the long-running dispute do not look good.

Yesterday, before Mr Putin left for his trip to Japan, he sent this shot across Japan's bow:

"We believe we have no territorial problems at all. It is only Japan that believes it has territorial problems with Russia. We are ready to talk about this."

Mr Abe has spoken of his desire to normalise relations with Russia.

When he met Mr Putin at the International Economic Forum in Vladivostok in September, he made this rather weird plea to the Russian President:

"We could walk into the virgin forest of the taiga [the Russian word for forest] in the light of the sun's rays and push through the foliage ... and think about what relations between Japan and Russia should be like in 20 or 30 years."

Mr Abe has pressed ahead with the summit despite the objections of the United States, who do not want to see another member of the Group of Seven nations (G7) give ground to Russia.

The US wants Japan to remain in lockstep with other nations, who are critical of Russia's annexation of Crimea and its backing of the Assad regime in Syria.

But Mr Abe sees the benefits to Japan of closer economic and diplomatic ties with Russia overriding his obligations to the G7.

Stephen Nagy is a Professor of International Relations at Tokyo's Christian University.

"I think that Prime Minister Abe moving forward on this issue has been a long-term strategy on how Japan and Russia could come to a peace agreement — as it stands now they are technically at war over these territories so one is to prioritise the idea of a peace agreement," he said.

Putin to be served puffer fish

The only nod Japan has made to its diplomatic obligations to the US and other nations has been its refusal to classify the summit as a formal state visit.

Mr Putin will not be meeting Japan's Emperor Akihito during his trip — usually a mandatory agenda item for any visiting world leader.

Mr Abe had planned a decadent first meal for Mr Putin, showcasing produce from Yamaguchi.

Sushi, sashimi and wagyu beef was set be on the menu — and, in what could be a poor diplomatic decision, Mr Abe also planned to serve puffer fish to the Russian President.

One person dies each year in Japan — on average — after eating puffer fish that has been incorrectly prepared.

The toxins inside the fish's glands are so poisonous, one fish could kill 30 adults. This year there have not been any deaths so far.

Hot tub time for Putin and Abe?

But the big question being asked in Japan is — will the two men climb into a hot-tub together?

It is odd for Australians to think about the idea of two middle-aged, straight men getting nude and chatting about world affairs while sitting in a pool of really hot water (42 degrees Celsius) — but in Japan, it is not that odd.

In a business setting, it is considered a natural extension of a working relationship — stripping back the layers builds trust and familiarity.

Mr Putin and Mr Abe might take an onsen together if the first stage of their talks go smoothly.

"Mr Abe should not expect an easy negotiation. They will be negotiating late at night in the hot springs to come to a compromise," Professor Nagy said.

The summit talks will continue in Tokyo on Friday.

Topics: government-and-politics, world-politics, japan

First posted