Army Sergeant in Texas Admits Funneling Weapons to Cartel
Army Sergeant in Texas Admits Funneling Weapons to Cartel
Shares                An Army sergeant who worked as a military recruiter has admitted he funneled dozens of assault weapons to a Mexican cartel last year with the help of other soldiers. The San Antonio Express-News reports ( http://bit.ly/2hvm4As ) Sgt. Julian Prezas pleaded guilty this week to charges that include lying on federal firearms forms. Prosecutors relied on the testimony of informants who assisted Prezas in forwarding the weapons to the Gulf Cartel. There are at least three other defendants in the case. A lawyer for Prezas says he's a decorated veteran who misunderstood regulations over the sale of guns. Sentencing is scheduled for March in federal court. Prezas also is facing a disciplinary discharge from the military. ——— Information from: San Antonio Express-News, http://www.mysanantonio.com  Shares                  Army Sergeant in Texas Admits Funneling Weapons to Cartel   Obama Vows Retaliation as Evidence of Russian Hacking Mounts   Syrians Can't 'Slaughter Their Way to Legitimacy': Obama   Orphaned Children Remain Trapped in Aleppo After Evacuations Suspended   Obama Says Clinton Was Not 'Treated Fairly' During Election   Official: FBI Backs CIA Conclusion on Russian Hacking Motive   N. Carolina GOP Strips Some of Democratic Governor's Power   'Pizzagate' Shooting Suspect Pleads Not Guilty   Trump Moves to Cancel Deals in Azerbaijan, Georgia   'Rogue One:' Riz Ahmed on 'Star Wars' and Rap Battles   'Rogue One's' Diego Luna on Why 'Dark Side Is Very Sexy'   Glitch in Christmas Tree Lights Sets Fire That Kills Couple   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Big Storm Hits California, Chopper Saves Homeless and Dogs   Bergdahl Judge Won't Allow Evidence of Injuries to Soldiers   15% of Texas Town Cleared to Use Tap Water After Chemical Spill   Football Team Refuses to Play Until Teammates Reinstated   Michelle Obama: 'Now We Are Feeling What Not Having Hope Feels Like'   Everything You Need to Know About the Inauguration   'Frozen' Star Has Cold Words About Trump's Inauguration   Burning Questions About 'Rogue One' Answered   'Rogue One' Composer on Facing Down Nerves About 'Star Wars' Gig   Michael Jackson's Son Prince Explains How His Father Influenced Him   Drug Overdose Deaths Rise Significantly in Past 5 Years   Grand Juror in JonBenet Ramsey Case Speaks Out   Shannen Doherty Shares Insight Into Radiation Treatments   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Costs $30K

An Army sergeant who worked as a military recruiter has admitted he funneled dozens of assault weapons to a Mexican cartel last year with the help of other soldiers.

The San Antonio Express-News reports ( http://bit.ly/2hvm4As ) Sgt. Julian Prezas pleaded guilty this week to charges that include lying on federal firearms forms.

Prosecutors relied on the testimony of informants who assisted Prezas in forwarding the weapons to the Gulf Cartel. There are at least three other defendants in the case.

A lawyer for Prezas says he's a decorated veteran who misunderstood regulations over the sale of guns.

Sentencing is scheduled for March in federal court. Prezas also is facing a disciplinary discharge from the military.

———

Information from: San Antonio Express-News, http://www.mysanantonio.com