This Inkblot Test Will Reveal Your Actual Issues
This Inkblot Test Will Reveal Your Actual Issues
This Inkblot Test Will Reveal Your Actual Issues  You got:
								
								Competitive perfectionist  You tend to have a very “all or nothing” view of the world, and interpret everything in your life as either winning or losing. You find it hard to accept your successes because you always feel there’s some greater success you have yet to achieve.    You got:
								
								Imaginative, but disorganized  You are very passionate and have a strong drive to succeed, but dislike hierarchies and organization because it gets in the way of your creativity. You are good at doing your own thing, but don’t always understand why everyone isn’t as invested in work as you are.    You got:
								
								Idealistic but angry  You have a lot of strong convictions about how the world should be and a strong sense of ethics. And while this gives you some strength and purpose, it also makes you feel very frustrated by the world around you.    You got:
								
								Totally overwhelmed by life  You often feel like life is a test and you forgot to study for it. You deal with a lot of anxieties, but once you learn to put less pressure on yourself, you’ll feel a lot better.    You got:
								
								Ambitious but insecure  You have big dreams and work hard, but you’re filled with doubts. When you achieve things and get what you work hard for, you often feel like an impostor and worry when people will figure out you don’t really belong. That won’t ever happen, though, because it’s not true.    You got:
								
								Adventurous but indecisive  You’re overwhelmed by lots of interesting and exciting options, and feel pressured to experience everything before it’s too late. As a result, you have trouble sticking with anything — or anyone — for too long.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   There Are So Many Celebs In The "All I Want For Christmas"...    18 Questions All Jews Are Sick Of Answering About Christmas...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

You got: Competitive perfectionist You tend to have a very “all or nothing” view of the world, and interpret everything in your life as either winning or losing. You find it hard to accept your successes because you always feel there’s some greater success you have yet to achieve.

You got: Imaginative, but disorganized You are very passionate and have a strong drive to succeed, but dislike hierarchies and organization because it gets in the way of your creativity. You are good at doing your own thing, but don’t always understand why everyone isn’t as invested in work as you are.

You got: Idealistic but angry You have a lot of strong convictions about how the world should be and a strong sense of ethics. And while this gives you some strength and purpose, it also makes you feel very frustrated by the world around you.

You got: Totally overwhelmed by life You often feel like life is a test and you forgot to study for it. You deal with a lot of anxieties, but once you learn to put less pressure on yourself, you’ll feel a lot better.

You got: Ambitious but insecure You have big dreams and work hard, but you’re filled with doubts. When you achieve things and get what you work hard for, you often feel like an impostor and worry when people will figure out you don’t really belong. That won’t ever happen, though, because it’s not true.