Minnesota Football Suspends 10 Players for Violations: Latest Details, Reaction
Minnesota Football Suspends 10 Players for Violations: Latest Details, Reaction
The Minnesota Golden Gophers football team suspended 10 players indefinitely for unspecified rules violations on Tuesday, according to ESPN's Brett McMurphy . According to the 's Joe Christensen , defensive back On Wednesday, University of Minnesota President Eric Kaler told school supporters in an email that the players would not be participating in the team's Holiday Bowl matchup with Washington State on Dec. 27, per Steve Karnowski of the Associated Press. Christensen and reporter Brandon Stahl added Wednesday that five of the players involved face expulsion from the school, while four others face a one-year suspension. ESPN.com's Adam Rittenberg reported on details surrounding why the players were suspended: Christensen noted Buford, Hardin, Dior Johnson and Tamarion Johnson previously served three-game suspensions stemming from unspecified violations of team rules. "Due to privacy restrictions relating to student educational data, there is nothing further the university can share," the school said in a statement, per Christensen.

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

The Minnesota Golden Gophers football team suspended 10 players indefinitely for unspecified rules violations on Tuesday, according to ESPN's Brett McMurphy.

According to the Star Tribune's Joe Christensen, defensive back Ray Buford, running back Carlton Djam, defensive back KiAnte Hardin, quarterback Seth Green, defensive back Dior Johnson, running back Kobe McCrary, defensive lineman Tamarion Johnson, defensive back Antonio Shenault, quarterback Mark Williams and defensive back Antoine Winfield Jr. are the players who were disciplined.

On Wednesday, University of Minnesota President Eric Kaler told school supporters in an email that the players would not be participating in the team's Holiday Bowl matchup with Washington State on Dec. 27, per Steve Karnowski of the Associated Press.

Christensen and Star Tribune reporter Brandon Stahl added Wednesday that five of the players involved face expulsion from the school, while four others face a one-year suspension.

ESPN.com's Adam Rittenberg reported on details surrounding why the players were suspended:

A source tells ESPN that the indefinite suspensions Minnesota imposed against 10 football players all stem from an alleged incident Sept. 2 at an off-campus apartment involving a female student. Four Gophers players were suspended earlier in the season while police investigated the incident, but all were reinstated when Hennepin County decided not to press charges. Those players and an additional six players were suspended today as a result of a Title IX complaint and a report filed by the university's Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Christensen noted Buford, Hardin, Dior Johnson and Tamarion Johnson previously served three-game suspensions stemming from unspecified violations of team rules.

"Due to privacy restrictions relating to student educational data, there is nothing further the university can share," the school said in a statement, per Christensen.