Son of Chinese businessman does not want to take over his $122 billion business
Son of China's richest man doesn't want to inherit $122 billion empire


The wealthiest man in China needs to find an heir to his $122 billion empire after his son told him he does not want to live a life like that.

Wang Jianlin, founder and chairman of Dalian Wanda Group, said his only son, 28-year-old Wang Sicong, doesn't want to take over his shopping centres, hotels, theme parks and sports clubs.

'I have asked my son about the succession plan, and he said he does not want to live a life like mine,' Wang, 62, told an entrepreneurs summit over the weekend.

Billionaire Wang Jianlin, founder and chairman of Dalian Wanda Group, says his son doesn't want to take over his business

Wang Jianlin addressed a summit on entrepreneurs over the weekend. His son is pictured with fans in February last year

The transcript of the speech published on the Wanda group website was translated from Chinese by South China Morning Post.

'Perhaps young people have their own quests and priorities. Probably it will be better to hand over to professional managers and have us sit on the board and see them run the company,' Wang said.

'We have several professional managers as candidates.

'The one who is handpicked and later trained to be a business leader should be no better than those who manage to stand out of the others through competition.'

Wang Sicong is pictured with fans in February last year

Wang Sicong is pictured at the Wanda Plaza opening ceremony in September, 2011

Wang Sicong is a director at his father's empire, with a 2 per cent stake, South China Morning Post reported.

Wang Sicong is the only child of Wang Jianlin

He founded Prometheus Capital in 2011 and has made investments in Invictus Gaming, Dining Concepts Holdings.

In May last year, the son bought two Apple Watches for his dog, called Wang Keke, who wears them both on his front legs.

Pictures of the dog wearing the smart watches were posted to Weibo, China's answer to Twitter.

In a country with a fast widening wealth gap, the pictures quickly caused outcry. Apple Watch sells between £820 and £1,300 in China, which is more than the monthly salary of an average office worker in big cities.

Sicong has 21 million followers on Weibo, while his dog has its own account.

The son went to school in Britain and studied philosophy at the University College London.

Wang Sicong is pictured at the China Digital Entertainment Expo & Conference in July