Kanye West and Donald Trump: 'The two most powerful American narcissists in the same room'
Kanye West and Donald Trump: 'The two most powerful American narcissists in the same room'
Rapper Kanye West's meeting with Donald Trump may have left many perplexed, but American comedian Stephen Colbert says he understands the significance of their 15-minute conversation. Colbert gave what some would argue to be the most incisive summary of the meeting between the pair during on Wednesday. The gathering of the provocative musician and the divisive President-elect was a seismic moment which he called “the two most powerful American narcissists in the same room”. He added: “Just for security reasons, they had to keep Shia La Beouf in an undisclosed location for continuity of Government."  The meeting precipitated questions over Mr Trump’s priorities and West’s political ambitions. While normally verbose when speaking to the press, Mr Trump summed up the subject of their meeting in one word, telling the press pool it was about “life”. Kanye West premieres The Life of Pablo               Kanye West premieres The Life of Pablo    ‘Hold positions until the end of the show’    Getty Images     ‘Concentrate, focus’    Getty Images     ‘Behave as if no one was in the room’    Getty Images     ‘Be calm, be strong, be neutral’    Getty Images     ‘No sexy posing’    Getty Images     ‘Alternate between attention and ease’    Getty Images     ‘Do not ever look at the jumbatron’    Getty Images  But Colbert’s point was soon proved when West shared an image of his memorabilia from their meeting - a copy of Mr Trump’s Time Person of the Year magazine cover, signed by his “great friend”. pic.twitter.com/tNMBk0sZJw “I’m not sure what cabinet position Kanye was applying for," wondered Colbert. "Which government agency regulates diamond masks and track pants?” More about: Stephen Colbert Donald Trump Kanye West Comments

Rapper Kanye West's meeting with Donald Trump may have left many perplexed, but American comedian Stephen Colbert says he understands the significance of their 15-minute conversation.

Colbert gave what some would argue to be the most incisive summary of the meeting between the pair during The Late Show on Wednesday. The gathering of the provocative musician and the divisive President-elect was a seismic moment which he called “the two most powerful American narcissists in the same room”.

He added: “Just for security reasons, they had to keep Shia La Beouf in an undisclosed location for continuity of Government."

The meeting precipitated questions over Mr Trump’s priorities and West’s political ambitions. While normally verbose when speaking to the press, Mr Trump summed up the subject of their meeting in one word, telling the press pool it was about “life”.

Kanye West premieres The Life of Pablo







7 show all Kanye West premieres The Life of Pablo











1/7 ‘Hold positions until the end of the show’ Getty Images

2/7 ‘Concentrate, focus’ Getty Images

3/7 ‘Behave as if no one was in the room’ Getty Images

4/7 ‘Be calm, be strong, be neutral’ Getty Images

5/7 ‘No sexy posing’ Getty Images

6/7 ‘Alternate between attention and ease’ Getty Images

7/7 ‘Do not ever look at the jumbatron’ Getty Images

But Colbert’s point was soon proved when West shared an image of his memorabilia from their meeting - a copy of Mr Trump’s Time Person of the Year magazine cover, signed by his “great friend”.

“I’m not sure what cabinet position Kanye was applying for," wondered Colbert. "Which government agency regulates diamond masks and track pants?”