Child's heartbreaking letter to dead father found tied to ballon
Child's heartbreaking letter to dead father found tied to ballon
letter written by a child in foster care to his dead father has been found attached to a balloon in Scotland. The man who found the note is now hoping to track down the author, in order to buy him some Christmas presents. In the heartbreaking letter, date 1st December 2016, the child says he is missing his father, asking: "I know you are up in heaven, but are you safe?" He also reveals he is in foster care "cause mum is sick," and says that, for Christmas, his dream is "for you my daddy to put a note under my pillow that you wrote." Stuart McColl, who found the note in a field in Fife, said: "I was out walking my dog when I found the letter tied to a sparkly blue helium balloon in a field. "This was just too sad to ignore. "I've never done anything like this before but it's a really tragic story so it would be great to do something to help this person who is having such a tough time. "Unfortunately there's been no solid leads as to who this child is yet but the image of the letter has been posted and shared a lot on social media. "It has also been shared with foster agencies as well." "It's pretty ambitious and as I said, it has touched a lot of people. It's lovely. "I really hope we can find the child but even if we can't, I'd like to setup a charity page to buy presents for children living in foster care this Christmas."

A letter written by a child in foster care to his dead father has been found attached to a balloon in Scotland.

The man who found the note is now hoping to track down the author, in order to buy him some Christmas presents.

In the heartbreaking letter, date 1st December 2016, the child says he is missing his father, asking: "I know you are up in heaven, but are you safe?"

He also reveals he is in foster care "cause mum is sick," and says that, for Christmas, his dream is "for you my daddy to put a note under my pillow that you wrote."

Stuart McColl, who found the note in a field in Fife, said: "I was out walking my dog when I found the letter tied to a sparkly blue helium balloon in a field.

"This was just too sad to ignore.