Parents Abandon Kids At Railway Station, A Policeman Gives Them A New Life
Parents Abandon Kids At Railway Station, A Policeman Gives Them A New Life
Parents Abandon Kids At Railway Station, A Policeman Gives Them A New Life At the age of 11, Pradeep was brought to Pune with his sister (7) and Janvi (5) by his parents. They were told it was for their education. "My father was an autorickshaw driver, but he also used to work as a farmer to sponsor our education. Eight months back, our parents brought us to Pune for better job and educational prospects. After we reached the station, they told us that they would go out in search of shelter and food and promised to return soon. But they never turned up," Pradeep told Mid-Day. His life changed this week, when senior inspector Rajendra Vibhandhik saw the boy begging, and then sharing food with his two sisters. He immediately took the kids to the police station, and gave them food. Surprisingly, Pradeep's parents are in Pune, and Vibhandhik was able to get in touch with his father. "We could trace his father, but he was in an inebriated condition." Pradeep attempted to contact his mother. "When I contacted my mother, she said that we would have to manage our lives on our own, as she will not return. Even her boyfriend abused me, he said. Now, the officer has found a social worker who will sponsor their education.

At the age of 11, Pradeep was brought to Pune with his sister (7) and Janvi (5) by his parents. They were told it was for their education.

Their parents disappeared at the railway station

"My father was an autorickshaw driver, but he also used to work as a farmer to sponsor our education. Eight months back, our parents brought us to Pune for better job and educational prospects. After we reached the station, they told us that they would go out in search of shelter and food and promised to return soon. But they never turned up," Pradeep told Mid-Day.

Pradeep began begging and cleaning the platforms to take care of his small family. We even got beaten up at times for begging," Pradeep added.

His life changed this week, when senior inspector Rajendra Vibhandhik saw the boy begging, and then sharing food with his two sisters. He immediately took the kids to the police station, and gave them food.

mid-day



Surprisingly, Pradeep's parents are in Pune, and Vibhandhik was able to get in touch with his father.

"We could trace his father, but he was in an inebriated condition."

Pradeep attempted to contact his mother. "When I contacted my mother, she said that we would have to manage our lives on our own, as she will not return. Even her boyfriend abused me, he said.

Now, the officer has found a social worker who will sponsor their education.