Game2: Winter organiser Yevgeny Pyatkovsky says rape and murder is allowed
Russian Hunger-Games style show will 'allow rape and murder'


The organiser of a Hunger Games-style reality show where 30 people will be dumped in the Siberian wilderness has boasted that rape and murder is allowed.

The participants of Game2: Winter - half of them women - will be deposited in the Russian outback which is teeming with bears and wolves for a nine-month survival test in temperatures sinking to colder than minus 40C.

Contestants from different countries seeking a £1.3million prize will be issued with knives and will be expected to hunt and fish to eat.

The organiser of a Hunger Games-style reality show where 30 people will be dumped in the Siberian wilderness has boasted that rape and murder is allowed. Pictured is an unknown man

The participants of Game2: Winter - half of them women - will be deposited in the Russian outback which is teeming with bears and wolves for a nine-month survival test in temperatures sinking to colder than minus 40C

Contestants from different countries seeking a £1.3million prize will be issued with knives and will be expected to hunt and fish to eat

The rules appear shocking, with 35 year old Russian millionaire, Yevgeny Pyatkovsky, the organiser, stating: 'We will refuse any claim of participants even if they were to be killed or raped.'

The rules appear shocking, with 35-year-old Russian millionaire, Yevgeny Pyatkovsky, the organiser, stating: 'We will refuse any claim of participants even if they were to be killed or raped.

'We will have nothing to do with this.

'This will be spelt out in a document to be signed by the participant before the start of the show.'

The rules state bluntly: 'Everything is allowed. Fighting, alcohol, murder, rape, smoking, anything.'

One online critic wrote: 'This opens the way to savage and bestial behaviour.

'It's as if they're trying to encourage rape or murder.

'There may be cameras around but they won't see everything.'

The participants - who must be over 18 and 'mentally sane' - are expected to pay £132,000 to take part, although some will be selected in an online poll and enter for free.

The rules state bluntly: 'Everything is allowed. Fighting, alcohol, murder, rape, smoking, anything.' Pictured is an unidentified man

The survival contest will be screened online 24/7 using footage from 2,000 fixed cameras on a 2,225 acre slice of taiga, with translations into English, French, German, Spanish, Chinese and Arabic

Participants - depicted here by unidentified men - will be given survival training from Russia's elite former GRU Spetznaz operatives, but after that they will be on their own coping with temperatures ranging from 35C in high summer to minus 40C or lower in the depths of the Siberian winter

'There will be no film crew - the whole area will be dotted with cameras and each participant will be carrying a portable camera with 7-hour life rechargeable battery,' said Pyatkovsky.

The survival contest will be screened online 24/7 using footage from 2,000 fixed cameras on a 2,225 acre slice of taiga, with translations into English, French, German, Spanish, Chinese and Arabic.

'Probably all of you have watched the Lost TV series, but surviving in a tropical climate is quite different from trying to stay alive in the Siberian taiga - boreal forest - at minus 40 degrees Celsius,' he said.

He believes the show will attract 'rich and risky' people craving a new and ultimate challenge, due to commence on 1 July 2017.

They will be given survival training from Russia's elite former GRU Spetznaz operatives, but after that they will be on their own coping with temperatures ranging from 35C in high summer to minus 40C or lower in the depths of the Siberian winter.

The participants - who must be over 18 and 'mentally sane' - are expected to pay £132,000 to take part, although some will be selected in an online poll and enter for free

He warned: 'You should also keep in mind that this will be a real forest, with dangerous wildlife and harmful insects.

'Of course, there will be some safety precautions in place, but it would still take about half an hour to reach the area where the show will take place by helicopter.'

'Those taking part will be urged to forage and store food before winter in order to survive the cold months,' reported The Siberian Times.

'In winter, contestants will need to catch fish through ice holes to feed themselves.'

So far the filmmakers have had interest from 'professional rescuers, people without special training, professional travellers, entrepreneurs, photographers, jewellers and psychologists'.

Producer Nikolay Ginzburg said: 'It sounds strange, but on this project it will be easier to survive not for a professional rescuer but for a simple person.

'It will be necessary to act intuitively, rather than following instructions.'

Despite the nonchalant approach to murder and rape, contestants are told the laws of the Russian federation apply, and that if there is proof of criminality 'the police will come and take you away'

Each participant will have a panic button linked to a satellite. If they use it, they will be evacuated from the Siberian taiga, but not allowed to return

Each participant will have a panic button linked to a satellite.

If they use it, they will be evacuated from the Siberian taiga, but not allowed to return.

'The show will absolutely extreme,' said Yevgeny Pyatkovsky (pictured)

All who survive nine months will share the prize.

'The show will absolutely extreme,' said Pyatkovsky.

'There will be no doctors with the participants.

'If someone gets sick, wounded and realise that he/she can not pass the test, the helicopter will take him/her away to the doctors.

'Then the participant will quit the game forever.'

The IT millionaire claims that apart from being screened on a dedicated web TV channel, there is interest from mainstream broadcasters in at least five countries to screen the survival show.

Despite the nonchalant approach to murder and rape, contestants are told the laws of the Russian federation apply, and that if there is proof of criminality 'the police will come and take you away'.

They should 'obey the laws of the Russian Federation,' the show says.



