Stone Cold Talks Drinking 115 Beers with Dudley Boyz and Stacy Keibler in Japan
Stone Cold Talks Drinking 115 Beers with Dudley Boyz and Stacy Keibler in Japan
"Stone Cold" Steve Austin can pound beers with the best of them, but the Texas Rattlesnake revealed Tuesday he once downed 115 brewskis in a single celebration with a little help from some friends. On the latest episode of , Stone Cold interviewed former WWE timekeeper Mark Yeaton and discussed his penchant for holding beer bashes after his matches in WWE ( beginning at the 1:07:00 mark ). According to Austin (h/t Christopher Hooton of the Independent), he, the Dudley Boyz and Stacy Keibler set the high-water mark for consumption one night in Japan: "Were you in Japan the time we did the beer bash with the Dudleys and Stacy Keibler? ... We went through 115 beers that night [in Japan], and that was the most I ever went through." As remarkable as Austin's "achievement" was in the Land of the Rising Sun, it is eclipsed only by Ric Flair's claim that Andre the Giant once drank 106 beers on his own in one sitting, per Nick Schwartz of FoxSports.com.

"Stone Cold" Steve Austin can pound beers with the best of them, but the Texas Rattlesnake revealed Tuesday he once downed 115 brewskis in a single celebration with a little help from some friends.

On the latest episode of The Steve Austin Show, Stone Cold interviewed former WWE timekeeper Mark Yeaton and discussed his penchant for holding beer bashes after his matches in WWE (beginning at the 1:07:00 mark).

According to Austin (h/t Christopher Hooton of the Independent), he, the Dudley Boyz and Stacy Keibler set the high-water mark for consumption one night in Japan: "Were you in Japan the time we did the beer bash with the Dudleys and Stacy Keibler? ... We went through 115 beers that night [in Japan], and that was the most I ever went through."

As remarkable as Austin's "achievement" was in the Land of the Rising Sun, it is eclipsed only by Ric Flair's claim that Andre the Giant once drank 106 beers on his own in one sitting, per Nick Schwartz of FoxSports.com.

Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.