Draymond Green expresses displeasure with NBA CBA deal
Draymond Green expresses displeasure with NBA CBA deal
Draymond Green expresses displeasure with NBA CBA deal No rest for Isaiah Thomas in first game back from injury Kings looking into Cousins' tirade at columnist 76ers' Noel: 'Too good to be playing 8 minutes' Rockets rewrite single-game 3-point record list Cavs' Andersen suffers season-ending torn ACL Iverson says sitting to rest reflects new era 'Christmas gift?' Dirk envisions December return With Jazz thriving, divorce from Deron Williams a distant memory In wake of  'unacceptable' loss, Bulls' front office deserves most blame System of a downer: Pelicans can't keep up with familiar-looking Rockets Simone Biles, David Ross and J.R. Smith celebrate the craziest sports year ever Rockets' 3-point pace is remarkable Jumping from Pelicans to Rockets revived Eric Gordon The making of D'Angelo Russell Joel Embiid leads Stein's Rookie of the Year race Ten things I like and don't like, including Marc Gasol's genius Klay Thompson on 60-point game, trade rumors and more Bulls' Mirotic faces fine after missing practice Sevyn Streeter returns to sing 76ers' anthem Sources: LeBron, CP3 could cash in on new CBA Sources: Curry could cross $200M in new CBA Ray Allen's mother runs into Charlie Villanueva while he's wearing her son's jersey The sneaker that changed history The Air Force 1 still the chosen 1 Whiteside on Clips' Jordan: 'He just catches lobs' Craig Sager was reporter first, sideline superstar second Q&A with Swaggy P: His sneaker game is real Warriors showcase giving ways in blowout of short-handed Knicks Draymond Green riled up by Kristaps Porzingis' comments Warriors pass, pass and pass some more Dwyane Wade isn't concerned, but Bulls should be after loss to Bucks After a series of dissatisfied tweets, it is clear that Draymond Green is not happy with the NBA's new CBA deal. (0:56) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green recently told ESPN's Chris Haynes that despite his outspoken nature, he has actually been holding back some thoughts this season. However, when the NBA and the NBA Players Association announced Wednesday night they had come to a tentative agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, Green couldn't help but let his feelings fly on Twitter. Deal.?.?. Smh — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016 That's a heartbreaker — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016 Stand for something... or fall for anything — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016 One day we will get it right.... maybe — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016 Details of exactly what changes are coming in the new CBA are still coming to light, so it's unclear exactly what Green is objecting to in the agreement that players will soon be voting to ratify. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

After a series of dissatisfied tweets, it is clear that Draymond Green is not happy with the NBA's new CBA deal. (0:56)

Green not a fan of the NBA's new CBA (0:56)

Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green recently told ESPN's Chris Haynes that despite his outspoken nature, he has actually been holding back some thoughts this season.

However, when the NBA and the NBA Players Association announced Wednesday night they had come to a tentative agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, Green couldn't help but let his feelings fly on Twitter.

Deal.?.?. Smh — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016

That's a heartbreaker — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016

Stand for something... or fall for anything — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016

One day we will get it right.... maybe — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016

Details of exactly what changes are coming in the new CBA are still coming to light, so it's unclear exactly what Green is objecting to in the agreement that players will soon be voting to ratify.