Tinder reveals the most right-swiped names of 2016 in the UK
Tinder reveals its most right-swiped names of 2016 


If your name is Harry or Amelia, there's a good chance that 2016 has been a successful year for you on Tinder.

The popular dating site has revealed what the most right-swiped names were in the UK this year.

Topping the list for males is the name Harry, while it appears that Amelia is the most popular choice for females - coincidentally two of the top baby names for 2016.

Scroll down for video

New research has revealed what the most right-swiped names were in the UK this year. Topping the list for males is the name Harry (pictured is Prince Harry)

THE MOST RIGHT-SWIPED NAMES Ranking Male Female 1 Harry Amelia 2 Jay Holly 3 Thomas Grace 4 Leo Maisie 5 Jack Olivia 6 William Millie 7 Muhammed Ella 8 Ethan Phoebe 9 Archie Jade 10 Liam Mollie

Using data on the percentage of right swiped profiles in 2016, Tinder has created two top-ten lists – one for males and a second for females.

On the male list, Harry was the most right-swiped name, a name made popular by Prince Harry.

Shortly behind Harry were Jay, Thomas, Leo and Jack.

British royalty also seemed to be a top choice for females, with Amelia topping the list.

Holly, Grace, Maisie and Olivia all followed shortly behind.

The top names also have a strong correlation with the top baby names for 2016.

The top right-swiped female name of 2016 was Amelia (Lady Amelia Windsor pictured left), shortly followed by Holly, Grace, Maisie and Olivia (actress, Olivia Wilde is pictured right)

Shortly behind the top name, Harry, were Jay (Jay Leno is pictured right) , Thomas, Leo (Leonardo Dicaprio is pictured left) and Jack

For example, four of the top ten boy baby names this year also featured in the top ten of most right-swiped names.

This week, Tinder also announced the launch of Tinder for Apple TV, letting users swipe through matches on the big screen.

The dating app is pitching the update as 'fun for the whole family', although it remains to be seen if people will take up the offer of swiping with their relatives.

This week, Tinder also announced the launch of Tinder for Apple TV, letting users swipe through matches on the big screen

The update includes a new, swipeable remote control and a large-screen version of the app in HD.

A spokesperson for Tinder said: 'Bringing people together is what we do, and we're even more excited to be able to combine all the joys of swiping with all the comforts of home.

'Enjoy Tinder on Apple TV - it's the biggest thing to hit family night since Yahtzee.'