Day In The Life: What It's Like To Be A Female Pilot At 40,000 Feet
Day In The Life: What It's Like To Be A Female Pilot At 40,000 Feet
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katherine Love       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. --- Michelle Knoll likes to think her “office” has the best view in the world. From her window, she sees the ruins of Rome, or some days, the Northern Lights. Knoll, 44, is a corporate pilot and her Forbes Global 2000 company’s first female captain. For six years, she has privately flown the company’s executives domestically and internationally to hours- or days-long business meetings. In her previous job, Knoll flew as a First Officer for U.S. Airways Express in the Bombardier CRJ-200. (Photo courtesy of Knoll) It takes a certain kind of personality to do Knoll’s job. She has a thick skin (as a woman in a male-dominated industry) and she loves the novelty of constant travel: “The way I’m made, I really crave for things to be different. I like the unfamiliarity. I adapt well to change.” Here’s is a snapshot of a recent day in the sky: In preparation for a 10:00 a.m. flight from New York to Charleston, S.C. and a four-day trip, Knoll spends the evening before in her Jersey City, N.J. apartment, packing her suitcase and work materials (including her flight crew credentials and her pilot and medical licenses) and reviewing her flight and fuel plan and route options. Being a pilot is a “24-hour-a-day job,” says Knoll, so sleep is important — getting eight hours per night helps her body adjust to time changes and long periods of sitting. Flying as an international captain in the Gulfstream G650 and G550. (Photo courtesy of Michelle Knoll) Knoll wakes up to her iPhone alarm at 5 a.m. and gets into her typical gray suit and white collared shirt (just like the guys she works with). To compensate for a rather sedentary job, she eats light: breakfast is fruit and granola. It's New York and there's always traffic, so Knoll pulls out of her driveway at 6:30 a.m. to arrive at the company’s hangar by spends two hours “pre-flighting” the aircraft (which includes testing equipment and reviewing maintenance performed) alongside her second pilot and one flight attendant and the dispatch, line and maintenance crews. She personally welcomes her passengers (usually anywhere from one to 12 businesspeople), briefing them on the weather, time en route and expected turbulence. The view through the HUD, or Heads Up Display, which enables the pilot to reference flight instruments while still looking outside. (Photo courtesy of Knoll) During climb and descent, to and from 10,000 feet, Knoll and the other pilot observe “sterile cockpit,” when all conversation is flight-related. During cruise (usually above 40,000 feet), the plane is set to autopilot, allowing for personal interaction. “You get to know people very well when you sit with them in the cockpit for hours and hours on end,” Knoll says. “You become sort of a family.” Knoll’s co-pilots are usually male — currently just three of 16 pilots in Knoll’s company are female. Overall, only 6% of commercial pilots are women. In fact, people all the time" assume Knoll is the flight attendant, particularly when traveling into countries less accustomed to seeing a woman in such a role. One time, an on-site crew repeatedly directed all questions to Knoll's male co-pilot, despite the fact that her co-pilot repeatedly deferred, saying, "She's the captain. She's the captain," Knoll recalls. But women make great pilots, according to Knoll, because women are natural multitaskers. And encouragingly, more scholarships and flight-instruction internships are being offered by groups like Women in Aviation , opening up the field to a wider group of women.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Michelle Knoll likes to think her “office” has the best view in the world.

From her window, she sees the ruins of Rome, or some days, the Northern Lights.

Knoll, 44, is a corporate pilot and her Forbes Global 2000 company’s first female captain. For six years, she has privately flown the company’s executives domestically and internationally to hours- or days-long business meetings.

It takes a certain kind of personality to do Knoll’s job. She has a thick skin (as a woman in a male-dominated industry) and she loves the novelty of constant travel: “The way I’m made, I really crave for things to be different. I like the unfamiliarity. I adapt well to change.”

Here’s is a snapshot of a recent day in the sky:

Prep Time

In preparation for a 10:00 a.m. flight from New York to Charleston, S.C. and a four-day trip, Knoll spends the evening before in her Jersey City, N.J. apartment, packing her suitcase and work materials (including her flight crew credentials and her pilot and medical licenses) and reviewing her flight and fuel plan and route options.

Being a pilot is a “24-hour-a-day job,” says Knoll, so sleep is important — getting eight hours per night helps her body adjust to time changes and long periods of sitting.

Off To Work

Knoll wakes up to her iPhone alarm at 5 a.m. and gets into her typical gray suit and white collared shirt (just like the guys she works with). To compensate for a rather sedentary job, she eats light: breakfast is fruit and granola.

It's New York and there's always traffic, so Knoll pulls out of her driveway at 6:30 a.m. to arrive at the company’s hangar by 8:00. She spends two hours “pre-flighting” the aircraft (which includes testing equipment and reviewing maintenance performed) alongside her second pilot and one flight attendant and the dispatch, line and maintenance crews. She personally welcomes her passengers (usually anywhere from one to 12 businesspeople), briefing them on the weather, time en route and expected turbulence.

Up In The Air

During climb and descent, to and from 10,000 feet, Knoll and the other pilot observe “sterile cockpit,” when all conversation is flight-related. During cruise (usually above 40,000 feet), the plane is set to autopilot, allowing for personal interaction.

“You get to know people very well when you sit with them in the cockpit for hours and hours on end,” Knoll says. “You become sort of a family.”

Knoll’s co-pilots are usually male — currently just three of 16 pilots in Knoll’s company are female. Overall, only 6% of commercial pilots are women.

In fact, people “all the time" assume Knoll is the flight attendant, particularly when traveling into countries less accustomed to seeing a woman in such a role. One time, an on-site crew repeatedly directed all questions to Knoll's male co-pilot, despite the fact that her co-pilot repeatedly deferred, saying, "She's the captain. She's the captain," Knoll recalls.

But women make great pilots, according to Knoll, because women are natural multitaskers. And encouragingly, more scholarships and flight-instruction internships are being offered by groups like Women in Aviation, opening up the field to a wider group of women.