Watch Metallica Crush Their Biggest Fan in 'Who Knows' Trivia Contest on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!'
Watch Metallica Crush Their Biggest Fan in 'Who Knows' Trivia Contest on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!'
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Watch Metallica Crush Their Biggest Fan in 'Who Knows' Trivia Contest on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Metallica went all-in on Wednesday night (Dec. 14) during their appearance on Not only did the metal icons throw down on the outside stage for runs through a classic song and a new one from their No. 1 album, , they also stepped up to challenge their biggest fan in a grueling game of "Who Knows Metallica?" trivia. Cleveland fireman Dave came to play, wearing his favorite band baseball shirt in an effort to become the latest superfan to crush his idols in the game show that has previously seen Ozzy Osbourne and Katy Perry get blown out by their most passionate admirers. At stake? A maroon-colored ESP guitar signed by the whole band if Dave won, or Dave's wallet if Metallica emerged victorious. Lars Ulrich seemed determined to come out on top. "Hopefully high credit limits on those [credit] cards," the drummer joked, seeming cocky about his band's prospects. Things didn't start out well, as Dave instantly buzzed in to respond to a question about which year the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, much to Ulrich's dismay, as his trigger hand was way slow.  The bearded drummer was a bit faster on the follow-up, correctly answering a question about who introduced them at that 2009 ceremony (Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers if you're playing at home.) The band kept trying to wrestle Dave away from the buzzer as they racked up points and Ulrich bragged, "we are reversing history right here!" Watch the carnage:  In one of the other two segments on the show, the band explained why it took so long to put out and how singer James Hetfield used his drafting knowledge from high school to come up with their iconic logo. They also played "Atlas, Rise!" and "For Whom the Bell Tolls" for the largest audience ever for an outdoor gig at the show.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Metallica went all-in on Wednesday night (Dec. 14) during their appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! Not only did the metal icons throw down on the outside stage for runs through a classic song and a new one from their No. 1 album, Hardwired... to Self-Destruct, they also stepped up to challenge their biggest fan in a grueling game of "Who Knows Metallica?" trivia.

Cleveland fireman Dave came to play, wearing his favorite band baseball shirt in an effort to become the latest superfan to crush his idols in the game show that has previously seen Ozzy Osbourne and Katy Perry get blown out by their most passionate admirers. At stake? A maroon-colored ESP guitar signed by the whole band if Dave won, or Dave's wallet if Metallica emerged victorious.

Lars Ulrich seemed determined to come out on top. "Hopefully high credit limits on those [credit] cards," the drummer joked, seeming cocky about his band's prospects. Things didn't start out well, as Dave instantly buzzed in to respond to a question about which year the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, much to Ulrich's dismay, as his trigger hand was way slow.

The bearded drummer was a bit faster on the follow-up, correctly answering a question about who introduced them at that 2009 ceremony (Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers if you're playing at home.) The band kept trying to wrestle Dave away from the buzzer as they racked up points and Ulrich bragged, "we are reversing history right here!"

Watch the carnage:

In one of the other two segments on the show, the band explained why it took so long to put out Hardwired and how singer James Hetfield used his drafting knowledge from high school to come up with their iconic logo.

They also played "Atlas, Rise!" and "For Whom the Bell Tolls" for the largest audience ever for an outdoor gig at the Kimmel show.