Amazon Has Officially Made Its First Drone Delivery
Amazon Has Officially Made Its First Drone Delivery
Online seller of literally everything Amazon.com made history last week when the company made its first drone delivery to a customer. The order came from near Cambridge in the United Kingdom, and the customer received their order of a Fire TV streaming device and popcorn 13 minutes after placing the order online. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos tweeted a photo of the drone in flight and wrote "First ever #AmazonPrimeAir [the name of the company's drone delivery program] customer delivery is in the books," citing how quickly the delivery made it to the customer. First-ever #AmazonPrimeAir customer delivery is in the books. 13 min—click to delivery. Check out the video: https://t.co/Xl8HiQMA1S  pic.twitter.com/5HGsmHvPlE Amazon shared a video on their website of the delivery from beginning (getting packed up by a human), to getting loaded into the drone, after which the drone takes off and flies to the destination with the streaming device and popcorn in tow. The video's narrator says that the program has just two customers for now, "and in the coming months we’ll offer participation to dozens of customers living within several miles of our U.K. facility, and then growing to hundreds more." reports that the deliveries are restricted for the time being due to laws in the U.K. about where drones can fly and how often, but the delivery marks a new era for online shopping and speed of delivery to customers. The company will continue to test drones in the U.K., according to .

Online seller of literally everything Amazon.com made history last week when the company made its first drone delivery to a customer. The order came from near Cambridge in the United Kingdom, and the customer received their order of a Fire TV streaming device and popcorn 13 minutes after placing the order online.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos tweeted a photo of the drone in flight and wrote "First ever #AmazonPrimeAir [the name of the company's drone delivery program] customer delivery is in the books," citing how quickly the delivery made it to the customer.

First-ever #AmazonPrimeAir customer delivery is in the books. 13 min—click to delivery. Check out the video: https://t.co/Xl8HiQMA1S pic.twitter.com/5HGsmHvPlE — Jeff Bezos (@JeffBezos) December 14, 2016

Amazon shared a video on their website of the delivery from beginning (getting packed up by a human), to getting loaded into the drone, after which the drone takes off and flies to the destination with the streaming device and popcorn in tow.

The video's narrator says that the program has just two customers for now, "and in the coming months we’ll offer participation to dozens of customers living within several miles of our U.K. facility, and then growing to hundreds more."

Bloomberg reports that the deliveries are restricted for the time being due to laws in the U.K. about where drones can fly and how often, but the delivery marks a new era for online shopping and speed of delivery to customers. The company will continue to test drones in the U.K., according to Bloomberg.