Indiana Town's Entire Police Force Resigns, Citing Unfair Treatment

Indiana Town's Entire Police Force Resigns, Citing Unfair Treatment // // The entire police department of Bunker Hill, Ind., has resigned. Town Marshal Michael Thomison and his four reserve deputies handed in resignation letters Monday after they said they were treated unfairly and asked to act illegally, according to WXIN . Thomison also said this was a safety issue, in that the deputies were forced to share one set of body armor. The officers accused town council members of asking them to perform criminal background checks on other council members. The Town of Bunker Hill released a statement in response to the resignations, including the following excerpt: "The resignation of the entire police force has come as a shock to the council. It has never been the goal to dismantle or otherwise endanger the town police department or officers. The council thanks these officers for their service to the town. Bunker Hill is in the process of obtaining a new marshal and reserve deputies. The council asks for patience from the town residents in this process." County officers are expected to step in to protect Bunker Hill residents until the town board hires a new marshal. Watch the report, and tell us your thoughts.

WATCH: Group of Celebs Plead With Electoral College to Reject Trump

Colorado School District Votes to Let Teachers Carry Guns on Campus

Judge Nap: U.S. Intel Behind Leaking of Emails to WikiLeaks, Not Russia

The entire police department of Bunker Hill, Ind., has resigned.

Town Marshal Michael Thomison and his four reserve deputies handed in resignation letters Monday after they said they were treated unfairly and asked to act illegally, according to WXIN.

Thomison also said this was a safety issue, in that the deputies were forced to share one set of body armor.

The officers accused town council members of asking them to perform criminal background checks on other council members.

The Town of Bunker Hill released a statement in response to the resignations, including the following excerpt:

"The resignation of the entire police force has come as a shock to the council. It has never been the goal to dismantle or otherwise endanger the town police department or officers. The council thanks these officers for their service to the town. Bunker Hill is in the process of obtaining a new marshal and reserve deputies. The council asks for patience from the town residents in this process."

County officers are expected to step in to protect Bunker Hill residents until the town board hires a new marshal.

Watch the report, and tell us your thoughts.

Rove to Dems: Stop Making Excuses and Face the 'Inconvenient Reality'

Huckabee: 'Trump Could Walk Across the Hudson, NY Times Would Say He Can't Swim'

Muslim Teen Admits She Lied About Being Attacked by Trump Supporters