Postal Worker Rescues Gifts From Burning Truck, Saves Christmas
Hero Postal Worker Rescues Gifts From Burning Truck, Saves Christmas
There were no chestnuts roasting on this open fire. After a mail truck filled with packages for the holiday season caught fire in Wake Forest, North Carolina, Tuesday morning, a postal worker and a passerby launched into action to remove all the parcels from the burning vehicle. NEW: Eyewitness video of mail carrier and Good Samaritan racing to save dozens of packages from burning postal truck in Wake Forest #abc11  pic.twitter.com/KEOhWjnoC4 Authorities said the fire started in the engine compartment and spread to the rest of the vehicle, according to Pittsburgh news station WPXI . The postal worker’s quick decision to remove the packages from the truck limited the fire’s damage. “If it wasn’t for her quick thinking to pull right over and remove the parcels, it could have been tough,” Wake Forest Fire Battalion Chief Ed Barrett told Wake Forest’s ABC station, WTVD . USPS said it would work with customers who may have received damaged packages to have them reshipped. WPXI reported that many of the packages were from Amazon. The e-retailer said in a statement that it would donate to the local fire station for acting so quickly. A GoFundMe page was created to thank the mail carrier for her efforts. GoFundMe ensures that fundraisers set up on behalf of another person reach the intended recipient. Previous mail truck fires did not have such little damage. When a United States Postal Service tractor-trailer rear-ended another truck on a highway in 2014, 120,000 letters were burned and lost forever . ALSO ON HUFFPOST Cute Christmas Cookies       Share this slide:       MORE:

There were no chestnuts roasting on this open fire.

After a mail truck filled with packages for the holiday season caught fire in Wake Forest, North Carolina, Tuesday morning, a postal worker and a passerby launched into action to remove all the parcels from the burning vehicle.

NEW: Eyewitness video of mail carrier and Good Samaritan racing to save dozens of packages from burning postal truck in Wake Forest #abc11 pic.twitter.com/KEOhWjnoC4 — Heather Waliga (@WaligaABC11) December 13, 2016

Authorities said the fire started in the engine compartment and spread to the rest of the vehicle, according to Pittsburgh news station WPXI. The postal worker’s quick decision to remove the packages from the truck limited the fire’s damage.

“If it wasn’t for her quick thinking to pull right over and remove the parcels, it could have been tough,” Wake Forest Fire Battalion Chief Ed Barrett told Wake Forest’s ABC station, WTVD.

USPS said it would work with customers who may have received damaged packages to have them reshipped. WPXI reported that many of the packages were from Amazon. The e-retailer said in a statement that it would donate to the local fire station for acting so quickly.

A GoFundMe page was created to thank the mail carrier for her efforts. GoFundMe ensures that fundraisers set up on behalf of another person reach the intended recipient.