The 'Putin-funded propaganda calendar' showing 'Syrian girls eulogising Russian forces'
From Syria with Love - the 'Putin-funded propaganda calendar'


After the carnage and bloodshed in Aleppo, a bizarre 2017 calendar called 'From Syria with Love' has been released featuring young women praising the heroics of Vladimir Putin's military men.

One model named as Tamara Ishak from Tartus - site of a Russian naval base - coos: 'I am at peace when my land is under your control.'

Yet the calendar does not appear to be a spontaneous outpouring of love for Russian troops by the female population of Syria.

The cover of the 2017 'From Syria with Love' calendar that is thought to have been published by a grant from the Kremlin

It appears to have been funded by a grant from the Kremlin, and published by an organisation called the Russian Union of Youth, suggesting it is part of Putin's alleged propaganda offensive.

And even its introduction admits the project is a riposte to the US and European media's coverage of the presence of Moscow's forces in Syria.

It states: 'Talking about Syria, the Western media often forgets about Russian humanitarian aid, about the unparalleled courage of Russian military men, about thousands of civilians rescued from virtual slavery.

'But those who went through the hardships of this war remember about it well.

Rasa Dib from Latakia, the face of January 2017, pictured, tells the Russian officers: 'I realised straight away that your intention were serious'

For February 2017, Maisaa Salman, pictured, refers to February 23, Red Army Day in Soviet times, which is marked annually in Russia, and on which men are given gifts by women

Miss March, Sara Saker, also from Latakia, poses with her hands on her chest and declares: 'I got scared that we will never see each other again'

'Syrian girls have prepared a New Year present for Russian soldiers and officers.'

Traditionally, Russians exchange presents at New Year, not on 25 December.

The introduction adds: 'This is a calendar where 12 different residents of Syria address those who risk their lives every day to protect their Motherland.

'Each of the young Syrian ladies has their own story - but they all are united by a feeling of sincere gratitude to Russian military men.

'As a sign of respect to Russia and its culture, all the models are wearing a traditional Russian hat - the kokoshnik.'

On the front page, it shows a Syrian woman wearing a kokoshnik in the white, blue and red colours of the Russian flag.

For April 2017, Carina Yunes, yet again from Latakia, tells Russian forces: 'And I offered you to move in at Tartus' - the military base used by Russian troops

May 2017 is represented by Ilka al Hatib, from Homs, who is quoted saying: 'How did you know that I loved classical music?' in reference to a musical performance in Palmyra

The face of June 2017 is Lujayn Mhana from Latakia, who tells her Russian admirers: 'I already knew how I would spend that summer'

The calendar - with its writing in Russian - names all the participants, although a native of Aleppo who examined it said that many of the names are not typically Syrian.

Rasa Dib from Latakia, the face of January 2017, tells the Russian officers: 'I realised straight away that your intention were serious.'

A comment is added that Putin's forces have freed more than 300 villages, which are now back in control of President Bashar al-Assad, seen in the West as a cruel and murderous tyrant.

For February 2017, Maisaa Salman from Latakia, declares: 'It was your holiday, but it was me who got the getting presents.'

This refers to February 23 - Red Army Day in Soviet times, which is marked annually in Russia, and on which men are given gifts by women.

July 2017 features Fatima Duksi from Aleppo, who poses wearing ornate, heavy jewellery and whispers: 'To see you at least for a moment!

In August 2017, Kamilia Searanim from Suveda, tells the Russian troops in the calendar: 'My Palmyra's destiny is in your hands'

Miss March, Sara Saker, also from Latakia, declares: 'I got scared that we will never see each other again.'

For April 2017, Carina Yunes, yet again from Latakia, tells Russian forces: 'And I offered you to move in at Tartus.'

This comment evidently links to Assad in April 2016 offering Russian troops a full scale military base at Tartus.

May 2017 is represented by Ilka al Hatib, from Homs, who is quoted saying: 'How did you know that I loved classical music?'

It relates to a concert - A Prayer for Palmyra - by the Mariinsky Theatre Symphony Orchestra, conductor Valery Gergiev.

In September 2017, Maram Homsi from Aleppo asks the Russians: 'Do you remember how we met?' This alludes to the 2016 start of the Russian Aerospace Forces' operation in Syria

The face of the following month - June 2017 - is Lujayn Mhana from Latakia, who tells her Russian admirers: 'I already knew how I would spend that summer.'

Below is written: 'Taking control of the Syrian-Lebanese border.'

July 2017 features Fatima Duksi from Aleppo, who whispers: 'To see you at least for a moment!"

Here moment is spelled as as MiG, alluding to the famous Russian fighter jets, which are taking part in Putin's aerial operations in Syria.

In August 2017, Kamilia Searanim from Suveda, tells the troops: 'My Palmyra's destiny is in your hands.'

In October 2017, Yara Hasan from Tartus, asks: 'Tell me who is your Commander-in-Chief, and I will tell you who you are'. This refers to Putin, whose birthday is in October

For November 2017, Mary Sayed Omar from Aleppo asks: 'Is it your aircraft carrier moored by the shores of Syria?'

The calendar notes that this month marks the anniversary of the 2016 agreement between the Russian Federation and Arab Republic of Syria to place an Aviation Group of the Russian Armed Forces in Damask, Syria as Putin came to fully to the aid of his beleaguered ally Assad.

In September 2017, Maram Homsi from Aleppo asks the Russians: 'Do you remember how we met?' This alludes to the 2016 start of the Russian Aerospace Forces' operation in Syria.'

Then in October 2017, Yara Hasan from Tartus, asks: 'Tell me who is your Commander-in-Chief, and I will tell you who you are.'

Finally for December 2017, there is the message from Tamara Ishak with the words: 'Happy New Year! Thank you Russian officers and people of Russia for protecting the state of Syria!'

A key date is ringed here is October 7. This will be the 65th birthday of Putin, Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Armed Forces.

For November 2017, Mary Sayed Omar from Aleppo asks: 'Is it your aircraft carrier moored by the shores of Syria?'

The date marked here is November 12, the anniversary of the arrival of Russian aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov to the shores of Syria.