Modi Sarkar Announces Lottery Scheme For Digital Payments + 5 More Stories From Today
Modi Sarkar Announces Lottery Scheme For Digital Payments + 5 More Stories From Today
Modi Sarkar Announces Lottery Scheme For Digital Payments + 5 More Stories From Today The government has introduced a slew of measures to encourage people to switch to digital payments and cashless transactions. The NITI Aayog on Thursday announced the launch of Lucky Grahak Yojna for consumers, and Digi Dhan Vyapari Yojna to encourage merchants to transition to digital payments. Under this scheme customers and traders will be eligible to be daily, weekly or mega lucky winners if you are using digital payments in the next hundred days beginning on Christmas Day. Read more here. Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Over 200 Crore In New Notes Found In Raids On Banks That Are Helping Launder Black Money If you're wondering why you never manage to get enough cash from the ATMs anymore, here's a clue - the banks. Corrupt bank officials are allegedly colluding with what has reportedly become an industry of supplying last month's old black money hoarders with new black money. That means less money for you, as money flies out of banks in tens of crores through illicit back channels. Read more here 2. Women Staff Denied Entry In Israel's Parliament Because Their Skirt Is Too Short Short skirts are one sartorial habit that doesn't just draw ire only in some parts of India, but in countries like Israel as well where skirt wearing Israeli parliament staff protested because she and several other were denied entrance in parliament building because their skirts were deemed too short. Knesset, Israel's Parliament in recent days has started to enforce rules on length of the skirt strictly without giving any reason.  On Wednesday, about 50 staff members along with some parliamentarians gathered at the entrance of Knesset in support of those who were refused entry. Read more here 3. Third Bank Looted In Kashmir Since Demonetisation, Rs 11 Lakh Stolen Masked gunmen looted a J&K Bank branch in Ratnipore area, Pulwama district, and fled with Rs 11 lakh. This is the third bank robbery since demonetisation, announced in November this year. "They looted around Rs 11 lakh at gunpoint from the cash counter. A manhunt has been launched to nab the robbers," a police officer said. Police have cordoned off the area to catch the robbers. Read more here

BCCL

The government has introduced a slew of measures to encourage people to switch to digital payments and cashless transactions.

The NITI Aayog on Thursday announced the launch of Lucky Grahak Yojna for consumers, and Digi Dhan Vyapari Yojna to encourage merchants to transition to digital payments.

Under this scheme customers and traders will be eligible to be daily, weekly or mega lucky winners if you are using digital payments in the next hundred days beginning on Christmas Day. Read more here.

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Over 200 Crore In New Notes Found In Raids On Banks That Are Helping Launder Black Money

TOI

If you're wondering why you never manage to get enough cash from the ATMs anymore, here's a clue - the banks. Corrupt bank officials are allegedly colluding with what has reportedly become an industry of supplying last month's old black money hoarders with new black money. That means less money for you, as money flies out of banks in tens of crores through illicit back channels. Read more here

2. Women Staff Denied Entry In Israel's Parliament Because Their Skirt Is Too Short

Wikipedia

Short skirts are one sartorial habit that doesn't just draw ire only in some parts of India, but in countries like Israel as well where skirt wearing Israeli parliament staff protested because she and several other were denied entrance in parliament building because their skirts were deemed too short.

Knesset, Israel's Parliament in recent days has started to enforce rules on length of the skirt strictly without giving any reason. On Wednesday, about 50 staff members along with some parliamentarians gathered at the entrance of Knesset in support of those who were refused entry. Read more here

3. Third Bank Looted In Kashmir Since Demonetisation, Rs 11 Lakh Stolen

Masked gunmen looted a J&K Bank branch in Ratnipore area, Pulwama district, and fled with Rs 11 lakh. This is the third bank robbery since demonetisation, announced in November this year.

"They looted around Rs 11 lakh at gunpoint from the cash counter. A manhunt has been launched to nab the robbers," a police officer said. Police have cordoned off the area to catch the robbers. Read more here

4. Parents Abandon Kids At Railway Station, A Policeman Gives Them A New Life

At the age of 11, Pradeep was brought to Pune with his sister (7) and Janvi (5) by his parents. They were told it was for their education.

Their parents disappeared at the railway station. "My father was an autorickshaw driver, but he also used to work as a farmer to sponsor our education. Eight months back, our parents brought us to Pune for better job and educational prospects. After we reached the station, they told us that they would go out in search of shelter and food and promised to return soon. But they never turned up," Pradeep said. Read more here

5. Mother Sells Newborn for Rs 200 To Couple Who Worked As Hospital Staff

babycentre

A newborn girl was sold for Rs 200 by her mother to a nursing assistant and a cook working in a government hospital in Hosur. The incident came to light on Wednesday following a complaint lodged at the Hosur town police by the doctors of the hospital. Police have picked up the women and a Chennai-based couple for inquiry.

Mayurappa, 50, wife of Thimmakka, 46, of Vanamangalam near Thally, delivered a baby girl at the government hospital in Hosur on December 8.Read more here