Sports World Reacts to Craig Sager's Death
Sports World Reacts to Craig Sager's Death
Legendary sports broadcaster Craig Sager, who was diagnosed with cancer in April 2014, died Thursday at the age of 65. Turner President David Levy issued a statement on Sager's death: pic.twitter.com/PybrwHSNDh  Sager joined Turner Sports in 1990 and was best known for his work as an NBA sideline reporter. He also provided coverage during Major League Baseball playoff games for TBS, the NCAA men's basketball tournament, college football and the NFL. He also worked with NBC as part of its Olympic basketball coverage starting in 2000.                       The NBA on TNT provided a video featuring highlights from Sager's career that was narrated by fellow Turner Sports broadcaster Ernie Johnson Jr.: We are forever #SagerStrong  pic.twitter.com/t9C3x6znkb  Just two days before his death, Sager was inducted into the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame. The NBA's official Twitter account provided video footage from the ceremony in New York: An all-access look at an emotional evening as @NBAonTNT 's Craig Sager was inducted into the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame! pic.twitter.com/Gyzl1ztWRr  NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued a statement on Sager's death: NBA Commissioner Adam Silver released the following statement regarding the passing of Craig Sager pic.twitter.com/vvayZfy7Re                        Former NBA center Mychal Thompson shared his brief thoughts on Sager: Sorry to hear about Craig Sager dying...Fine Fine Man...  SB Nation offered a brief quote from Sager's speech at this year's ESPY Awards, where he received the Jimmy V Perseverance Award: "I will live my life full of love and full of fun. It's the only way I know how." -- Craig Sager, July 2016 https://t.co/WJtNk5SuZq  ESPN's Hannah Storm shared her thoughts on Sager's life and legacy: Rest In Peace, Craig Sager. What a valiant and inspirational fight. May his good work continue as his legacy. Prayers for all loved Craig.  The Vault offered a look back to a May 2016 issue for which Sager graced the cover: Craig Sager. R.I.P. pic.twitter.com/tJrxKeOpKa  Tristan Thompson of the Cleveland Cavaliers and Isaiah Thomas of the Boston Celtics were among the many current NBA players to express their sorrow about Sager's death: Rest In Peace #CraigSager prayers go out to his family pic.twitter.com/NDWL6suNGp  Rest In Peace Craig Sager... Thank you for all your kind words and for showing the true meaning of the word strength.  RIP Sager... Was always great to see him arriving at work! Left his mark on the game! Rest up  Rest in peace Craig Sager! 🙏🏼:(  RIP Craig Sager.. You will be remembered forever..  Sager's alma mater, Northwestern University, reflected on the broadcasting legend's life in the most appropriate way: Our #B1GCats family will forever be #SagerStrong . pic.twitter.com/fHzHkdcSan  The relationship between Sager and San Antonio Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich became must-see TV whenever the two were in the same place. Nearly one year ago to the day, Popovich and Sager shared this amazing moment during a game between the Spurs and Memphis Grizzlies:                 There is no better way to wrap up the warm thoughts and sentiments about Sager's life and career than with another moment involving Popovich, which author Ross Bolen provided in GIF form: RIP Craig Sager the 🐐. Basketball will never be the same. pic.twitter.com/Bi4XNUh8gD  After his initial diagnosis, Sager was in remission twice before he announced this past March the cancer had returned. He continued working sidelines during NBA games, though, even taking part in his first NBA Finals in a deal with ESPN during Game 6 between the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers.

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Legendary sports broadcaster Craig Sager, who was diagnosed with cancer in April 2014, died Thursday at the age of 65.

Turner President David Levy issued a statement on Sager's death:

Sager joined Turner Sports in 1990 and was best known for his work as an NBA sideline reporter. He also provided coverage during Major League Baseball playoff games for TBS, the NCAA men's basketball tournament, college football and the NFL.

He also worked with NBC as part of its Olympic basketball coverage starting in 2000.

The NBA on TNT provided a video featuring highlights from Sager's career that was narrated by fellow Turner Sports broadcaster Ernie Johnson Jr.:

Just two days before his death, Sager was inducted into the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame. The NBA's official Twitter account provided video footage from the ceremony in New York:

An all-access look at an emotional evening as @NBAonTNT's Craig Sager was inducted into the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame! pic.twitter.com/Gyzl1ztWRr — NBA (@NBA) December 15, 2016

NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued a statement on Sager's death:

NBA Commissioner Adam Silver released the following statement regarding the passing of Craig Sager pic.twitter.com/vvayZfy7Re — NBA (@NBA) December 15, 2016

"If any of us can display half the courage he has to stay on this planet...we would be well off," San Antonio Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich said, per Tom Orsborn of the San Antonio Express-News.

Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr honored Sager before the Warriors played the New York Knicks Thursday night:

Former NBA center Mychal Thompson shared his brief thoughts on Sager:

Sorry to hear about Craig Sager dying...Fine Fine Man... — Mychal Thompson (@champagnennuts) December 15, 2016

SB Nation offered a brief quote from Sager's speech at this year's ESPY Awards, where he received the Jimmy V Perseverance Award:

"I will live my life full of love and full of fun. It's the only way I know how." -- Craig Sager, July 2016https://t.co/WJtNk5SuZq — SB Nation (@SBNation) December 15, 2016

ESPN's Hannah Storm shared her thoughts on Sager's life and legacy:

Rest In Peace, Craig Sager. What a valiant and inspirational fight. May his good work continue as his legacy. Prayers for all loved Craig. — Hannah Storm (@HannahStormESPN) December 15, 2016

The Sports Illustrated Vault offered a look back to a May 2016 issue for which Sager graced the cover:

Tristan Thompson of the Cleveland Cavaliers and Isaiah Thomas of the Boston Celtics were among the many current NBA players to express their sorrow about Sager's death:

Rest In Peace #CraigSager prayers go out to his family pic.twitter.com/NDWL6suNGp — Isaiah Thomas (@Isaiah_Thomas) December 15, 2016

Rest In Peace Craig Sager... Thank you for all your kind words and for showing the true meaning of the word strength. — Tristan Thompson (@RealTristan13) December 15, 2016

RIP Sager... Was always great to see him arriving at work! Left his mark on the game! Rest up — Draymond Green (@Money23Green) December 15, 2016

Rest in peace Craig Sager! 🙏🏼:( — Kristaps Porzingis (@kporzee) December 15, 2016

RIP Craig Sager.. You will be remembered forever.. — Jamal Crawford (@JCrossover) December 15, 2016

Sager's alma mater, Northwestern University, reflected on the broadcasting legend's life in the most appropriate way:

The relationship between Sager and San Antonio Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich became must-see TV whenever the two were in the same place. Nearly one year ago to the day, Popovich and Sager shared this amazing moment during a game between the Spurs and Memphis Grizzlies:

There is no better way to wrap up the warm thoughts and sentiments about Sager's life and career than with another moment involving Popovich, which author Ross Bolen provided in GIF form:

RIP Craig Sager the 🐐. Basketball will never be the same. pic.twitter.com/Bi4XNUh8gD — Ross Bolen (@WRBolen) December 15, 2016

After his initial diagnosis, Sager was in remission twice before he announced this past March the cancer had returned. He continued working sidelines during NBA games, though, even taking part in his first NBA Finals in a deal with ESPN during Game 6 between the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers.