A Complete Guide to This Weekend's Sneaker Releases
A Complete Guide to This Weekend's Sneaker Releases
This weekend brings in plenty of releases with from footwear brands, with the “Black/White” Adidas Yeezy Boost 350 V2 being the biggest drop of them all. Despite controversy surrounding Kanye West’s visit to Trump Tower and photo-op with President-elect Donald Trump, the sneakers still be extremely hard to grab. The thirteen Doernbecher Freestyle Collection is also releasing. The collection includes the Air Jordan 7, Nike Kyrie 2, Air Max Zero, Air Huarache Run Ultra and Nike SB Stefan Janoski Max. All proceeds from the collection will be donated to the OSHU Doernbecher Children's Hospital Foundation. Jordan Brand is also releasing the Air Jordan III "Wool" and Air Jordan XI "Heiress," both of which take new approaches to their classic silhouettes. Nike Basketball makes the list with black and white colorways of the Nike Zoom KD 9 and the Nike Kobe A.D. Adidas is releasing the Harden Vol. 1 "Dark Ops Xeno" and an EQT collection in collaboration with Palace.

This weekend brings in plenty of releases with from footwear brands, with the “Black/White” Adidas Yeezy Boost 350 V2 being the biggest drop of them all. Despite controversy surrounding Kanye West’s visit to Trump Tower and photo-op with President-elect Donald Trump, the sneakers still be extremely hard to grab.

The thirteen Doernbecher Freestyle Collection is also releasing. The collection includes the Air Jordan 7, Nike Kyrie 2, Air Max Zero, Air Huarache Run Ultra and Nike SB Stefan Janoski Max. All proceeds from the collection will be donated to the OSHU Doernbecher Children's Hospital Foundation.

Jordan Brand is also releasing the Air Jordan III "Wool" and Air Jordan XI "Heiress," both of which take new approaches to their classic silhouettes. Nike Basketball makes the list with black and white colorways of the Nike Zoom KD 9 and the Nike Kobe A.D.

Adidas is releasing the Harden Vol. 1 "Dark Ops Xeno" and an EQT collection in collaboration with Palace.

To get a full run down on everything dropping, here's a Complete Guide to This Weekend's Sneaker Releases​.