California DMV Is The Latest Regulator To Stamp On Uber, Says Testing Self-Driving Taxis Is Illegal
California DMV Is The Latest Regulator To Stamp On Uber, Says Testing Self-Driving Taxis Is Illegal
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Frances Coppola       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A biker passes a pilot model of the Uber self-driving car on September 13, 2016 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.ANGELO MERENDINO/AFP/Getty Images Uber has fallen foul of regulators, again. This is nothing new, of course. Uber is fighting upwards of 70 lawsuits in the US and many more in countries around the world. It has been accused of avoiding regulation relating to taxi licensing , consumer protection , employment law , unfair commercial practices , anti-trust laws and corporation tax . Wikipedia has a handy list of Uber’s transgressions, country by country. But this latest transgression is perhaps the most extraordinary of all. It is entirely deliberate and seems to hang on an assumption that Uber can do whatever it likes with public resources. The State of California’s Department for Motor Vehicles has taken exception to Uber’s announcement that self-driving Uber taxis will now be available for hire in San Francisco: Uber announced today that vehicles with “state-of-the-art self-driving technology” will be available for customers in San Francisco. The announcement further describes the service as allowing Uber to “continue to improve our technology through real-world operations.” Clearly, Uber is intending to test its autonomous vehicle technology on California’s public roadways….. Now, there is nothing intrinsically wrong with testing autonomous vehicle technology on California's roads. Indeed, DMV recently issued permits to twenty companies allowing them to do just that. Many of the companies involved are household names – Google, Tesla, Volkswagen, Ford, Honda. But one company is conspicuous by its absence. Uber did not apply for a permit. So as far as the DMV is concerned, Uber’s self-driving taxis are completely illegal: Had Uber obtained an autonomous vehicle testing permit prior to today, the company’s launch would have been permissible. However, it is illegal for the company to operate its self-driving vehicles on public roads until it receives an autonomous vehicle testing permit. Any action by Uber to continue the operation of vehicles equipped with autonomous technology on public streets in California must cease until Uber complies. If you want to test your self-driving taxis on the San Francisco public, Uber, you need a permit. Uber, of course, disagrees. In its announcement, it lists three reasons why it doesn’t need a permit. Here they are, with my annotations. First, we are not planning to operate any differently than in Pittsburgh, where our pilot has been running successfully for several months. Eh, Uber – states have different regulations, you know. Just because Pittsburgh has a regulatory black hole doesn’t mean the whole of the US does. Second, the rules apply to cars that can drive without someone controlling or monitoring them. For us, it’s still early days and our cars are not yet ready to drive without a person monitoring them. But California’s permit requires there to be a driver in the car. Specifically, section 227.18 of the regulations pertaining to the testing of autonomous vehicles says that there must be a driver who is “either in immediate physical control of the vehicle or is actively monitoring the vehicle’s operations and capable of taking over immediate physical control”. So, the rules don’t “apply to cars that can drive without someone controlling or monitoring them”, do they, Uber? And the third reason? But there is a more fundamental point—how and when companies should be able to engineer and operate self-driving technology. We have seen different approaches to this question. Most states see the potential benefits, especially when it comes to road safety. And several cities and states have recognized that complex rules and requirements could have the unintended consequence of slowing innovation. Pittsburgh, Arizona, Nevada and Florida in particular have been leaders in this way, and by doing so have made clear that they are pro technology. Our hope is that California, our home state and a leader in much of the world’s dynamism, will take a similar view. So, Uber argues that if the State of California doesn't let it test its vehicles on public roads without a permit, it is impeding the march of technology. I don’t buy this. After all, those who are choosing to play by the rules include the likes of Google and Tesla, who are surely at the forefront of innovative technological development. Clearly, they don’t regard California’s test permits as particularly onerous or unreasonable. It costs $150 to obtain a permit – hardly a huge cost for a company the size of Uber. But in fact, the cost would be far higher for Uber. The conditions attached to the permit would fundamentally undermine Uber’s business model. To obtain a permit to test autonomous vehicles on California’s roads, the manufacturer must accept financial responsibility for all costs and litigation associated with road traffic accidents involving its cars. It also must prove that it is capable of bearing the costs, by providing either a surety bond for $5m or evidence of equivalent insurance. But Uber doesn’t accept financial responsibility for road traffic accidents. Its drivers do. Its whole business model works on the basis that drivers own their own cars and obtain their own insurance. Thus, a permit that required the manufacturer – not the driver - to accept responsibility for road traffic accidents would be impossible for Uber to accept without radical reform of its business model. Under Uber’s existing model, each driver/monitor of a self-driving car would have to apply individually for a permit. The DMV would not be likely to look too kindly on this, since the driver/monitors are merely testers rather than manufacturers, and few of them are likely to have a net worth of anything like $5m. There is a further complication. California’s permit regulations say that the driver/monitor must be an “employee, contractor or designee” of the manufacturer and must have completed a training program provided by the manufacturer and approved by the DMV. Uber has always insisted that its drivers are self-employed and are not in any sense employed by, contracted to or designated by Uber. And Uber doesn’t provide mandatory training for its drivers, except in how to use its app. It is hardly surprising that rather than agree to accept financial responsibility and the possibility that some of its drivers might have to become employees, Uber decided – once again – to flout the regulations. The DMV has made its intention clear: It is essential that Uber takes appropriate measures to ensure safety of the public. If Uber does not confirm immediately that it will stop its launch and seek a testing permit, DMV will initiate legal action, including, but not limited to, seeking injunctive relief. In the meantime, the DMV is available to meet to discuss our concerns. But for Uber, lawsuits are merely a cost of doing business. See you in court, DMV.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Fleetlights: Street Lights Of The Future?

Uber has fallen foul of regulators, again.

This is nothing new, of course. Uber is fighting upwards of 70 lawsuits in the US and many more in countries around the world. It has been accused of avoiding regulation relating to taxi licensing, consumer protection, employment law, unfair commercial practices, anti-trust laws and corporation tax. Wikipedia has a handy list of Uber’s transgressions, country by country.

But this latest transgression is perhaps the most extraordinary of all. It is entirely deliberate and seems to hang on an assumption that Uber can do whatever it likes with public resources.

The State of California’s Department for Motor Vehicles has taken exception to Uber’s announcement that self-driving Uber taxis will now be available for hire in San Francisco:

Uber announced today that vehicles with “state-of-the-art self-driving technology” will be available for customers in San Francisco. The announcement further describes the service as allowing Uber to “continue to improve our technology through real-world operations.” Clearly, Uber is intending to test its autonomous vehicle technology on California’s public roadways…..

Now, there is nothing intrinsically wrong with testing autonomous vehicle technology on California's roads. Indeed, DMV recently issued permits to twenty companies allowing them to do just that. Many of the companies involved are household names – Google, Tesla, Volkswagen, Ford, Honda.

Uber's San Francisco Self-Driving Car Program Draws Rebuke From California DMV:

But one company is conspicuous by its absence. Uber did not apply for a permit. So as far as the DMV is concerned, Uber’s self-driving taxis are completely illegal:

Had Uber obtained an autonomous vehicle testing permit prior to today, the company’s launch would have been permissible. However, it is illegal for the company to operate its self-driving vehicles on public roads until it receives an autonomous vehicle testing permit. Any action by Uber to continue the operation of vehicles equipped with autonomous technology on public streets in California must cease until Uber complies.

If you want to test your self-driving taxis on the San Francisco public, Uber, you need a permit.

Uber, of course, disagrees. In its announcement, it lists three reasons why it doesn’t need a permit. Here they are, with my annotations.

First, we are not planning to operate any differently than in Pittsburgh, where our pilot has been running successfully for several months.

Eh, Uber – states have different regulations, you know. Just because Pittsburgh has a regulatory black hole doesn’t mean the whole of the US does.

Second, the rules apply to cars that can drive without someone controlling or monitoring them. For us, it’s still early days and our cars are not yet ready to drive without a person monitoring them.

But California’s permit requires there to be a driver in the car. Specifically, section 227.18 of the regulations pertaining to the testing of autonomous vehicles says that there must be a driver who is “either in immediate physical control of the vehicle or is actively monitoring the vehicle’s operations and capable of taking over immediate physical control”. So, the rules don’t “apply to cars that can drive without someone controlling or monitoring them”, do they, Uber?

And the third reason?

But there is a more fundamental point—how and when companies should be able to engineer and operate self-driving technology. We have seen different approaches to this question. Most states see the potential benefits, especially when it comes to road safety. And several cities and states have recognized that complex rules and requirements could have the unintended consequence of slowing innovation. Pittsburgh, Arizona, Nevada and Florida in particular have been leaders in this way, and by doing so have made clear that they are pro technology. Our hope is that California, our home state and a leader in much of the world’s dynamism, will take a similar view.

So, Uber argues that if the State of California doesn't let it test its vehicles on public roads without a permit, it is impeding the march of technology.

I don’t buy this. After all, those who are choosing to play by the rules include the likes of Google and Tesla, who are surely at the forefront of innovative technological development. Clearly, they don’t regard California’s test permits as particularly onerous or unreasonable. It costs $150 to obtain a permit – hardly a huge cost for a company the size of Uber.

But in fact, the cost would be far higher for Uber. The conditions attached to the permit would fundamentally undermine Uber’s business model.

To obtain a permit to test autonomous vehicles on California’s roads, the manufacturer must accept financial responsibility for all costs and litigation associated with road traffic accidents involving its cars. It also must prove that it is capable of bearing the costs, by providing either a surety bond for $5m or evidence of equivalent insurance.

But Uber doesn’t accept financial responsibility for road traffic accidents. Its drivers do. Its whole business model works on the basis that drivers own their own cars and obtain their own insurance. Thus, a permit that required the manufacturer – not the driver - to accept responsibility for road traffic accidents would be impossible for Uber to accept without radical reform of its business model. Under Uber’s existing model, each driver/monitor of a self-driving car would have to apply individually for a permit. The DMV would not be likely to look too kindly on this, since the driver/monitors are merely testers rather than manufacturers, and few of them are likely to have a net worth of anything like $5m.

There is a further complication. California’s permit regulations say that the driver/monitor must be an “employee, contractor or designee” of the manufacturer and must have completed a training program provided by the manufacturer and approved by the DMV. Uber has always insisted that its drivers are self-employed and are not in any sense employed by, contracted to or designated by Uber. And Uber doesn’t provide mandatory training for its drivers, except in how to use its app.

It is hardly surprising that rather than agree to accept financial responsibility and the possibility that some of its drivers might have to become employees, Uber decided – once again – to flout the regulations.

The DMV has made its intention clear:

It is essential that Uber takes appropriate measures to ensure safety of the public. If Uber does not confirm immediately that it will stop its launch and seek a testing permit, DMV will initiate legal action, including, but not limited to, seeking injunctive relief. In the meantime, the DMV is available to meet to discuss our concerns.

But for Uber, lawsuits are merely a cost of doing business. See you in court, DMV.