Widow of Orlando nightclub shooter files petition to change child's name
Widow of Orlando nightclub shooter files petition to change child's name
Noor Salman and Omar Mateen with their young son in undated photo.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  The widow of the gunman who carried out a deadly shooting at a Florida gay nightclub before he was killed has filed a petition in a California court to change the name of their son. An online docket from Contra Costa County, California, shows that Omar Mateen’s wife, Noor Salman, filed the petition on Wednesday on behalf of the 4-year-old boy, who is partly named for his father. A hearing is scheduled for February. No other details are provided in the online docket. Contra Costa County is in the San Francisco metro area.  Salman moved there from Florida after her husband was killed in a shootout with SWAT team members during the June 12 massacre at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando . Forty-nine patrons were killed. Orlando nightclub mass shooting victims At least 49 people were killed in the worst mass shooting in U.S. history Mateen pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) during a three-hour standoff. The fence around Pulse opened early Monday for an intimate ceremony marking six months since the mass shooting, CBS Orlando affiliate WKMG-TV reported . Survivors, staff and family members of victims killed during the massacre held a moment of silence at 2:02 a.m., the exact time gunman Mateen started shooting. The early-morning memorial at Pulse wasn’t open to the public -- only to those with a direct connection to the shooting.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

ORLANDO, Fla. -- The widow of the gunman who carried out a deadly shooting at a Florida gay nightclub before he was killed has filed a petition in a California court to change the name of their son.



An online docket from Contra Costa County, California, shows that Omar Mateen’s wife, Noor Salman, filed the petition on Wednesday on behalf of the 4-year-old boy, who is partly named for his father.



A hearing is scheduled for February. No other details are provided in the online docket.



Contra Costa County is in the San Francisco metro area. Salman moved there from Florida after her husband was killed in a shootout with SWAT team members during the June 12 massacre at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando. Forty-nine patrons were killed.





Mateen pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) during a three-hour standoff.

The fence around Pulse opened early Monday for an intimate ceremony marking six months since the mass shooting, CBS Orlando affiliate WKMG-TV reported.



Survivors, staff and family members of victims killed during the massacre held a moment of silence at 2:02 a.m., the exact time gunman Mateen started shooting.

The early-morning memorial at Pulse wasn’t open to the public -- only to those with a direct connection to the shooting.