Government to force universities to publish real ATAR requirements or face funding cuts



Government to force universities to publish real ATAR requirements or face funding cuts

Posted

It should soon be easier for aspiring university students to work out which course they can enter.

Key points: Changes follow a review by the Higher Education Standards Panel

Simon Birmingham says if universities do not comply he could cut their funding

Universities deny they have been misleading students over ATAR scores

The Government says some universities have been gaming the system by claiming their courses require a high admissions score, when in reality students with much lower scores are admitted.

Education Minister Simon Birmingham says from 2018, universities will have to publish detailed information about exactly what marks students received to get into their degree.

"There were absolutely instances where universities appear to be gaming the ATAR (Australian Tertiary Admission Rank) system, publishing data that was not reflective of the final students admitted into that course, and that's just not acceptable."

The Government says some universities have been advertising their courses as requiring a high ATAR score when they actually admit students with a far lower score.

From 2018 universities will have to publish detailed information about how students gained entry into the course, including the lowest ATAR accepted and the maximum bonus points available.

"There have been many concerns about the opaqueness of admissions practices," Senator Birmingham said.

"We see universities steering further and further away from using pure ATAR as an entry means, and that's okay as long as it is then clear what standards are being applied so students know what they need to work to."

The changes follow a review by the Higher Education Standards Panel.

Mr Birmingham said if universities did not comply he could cut their funding.

"Ultimately there are consequences for universities if they don't meet the standards that we agree with them," he said.

"I hope though, and trust, that it would never come to that."

Universities deny 'gaming the system'

Universities Australia chief executive Belinda Robinson denied universities have been misleading students over ATAR scores.

"I don't know what gaming the system actually means, and no I don't accept that universities have been gaming the system," she said.

Ms Robinson said university admission had become more complicated and that the sector supported the Government's plan.

"Less than half now of students entering universities come in on the basis of ATARs, they're coming in on many different pathways," she said.

"It's absolutely appropriate that the information that students have available keeps up with the plethora of modes by which students can enter university."

She said universities were already moving in that direction.

"Universities have been making the information clear," she said.

"The issue here really is more around the presentation of the information and the ability for students to be able to access that easily.

"But more importantly be able to compare information between institutions."

'Still no deal' on school funding from 2018

While there has been agreement on one area of education reform, the biggest issue remains school funding.

Today the Federal Government will meet with state and territory education ministers at a COAG meeting in Melbourne.

South Australian Education Minister Susan Close told RN Breakfast she was frustrated that there was still no deal from the Federal Government on schools funding from 2018.

"We have our meetings periodically, and in each of the meetings we raise funding," she said.

"At no meeting has an alternative model been put forward.

"So we are in the dark as to what the Commonwealth's position is other than it's stepped away from the Gonski position."

Senator Birmingham said they were working towards a deal.

"We will settle arrangements for the distribution of our record and growing levels of school funding in the first part of 2017," he said.

"So we're looking to do that through the COAG process, and I'm sure that will be resolved with first ministers early next year."

Topics: university-and-further-education, education, access-to-education, government-and-politics, federal-government, education-industry, australia