Behind the mysterious stock dump ahead of Trump's Lockheed Martin tweet
Behind the mysterious stock dump ahead of Trump's Lockheed Martin tweet
When it began pinging around on Twitter, the graph raised suspicion. It showed the stock price of Lockheed Martin, an aerospace firm, jumping off a cliff only minutes before President-elect Donald Trump disparaged the company on Twitter. SEE ALSO: Meet Trump's archenemy on Twitter Had Trump told people to dump their stock before he blasted Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet program? The F-35 program and cost is out of control. Billions of dollars can and will be saved on military (and other) purchases after January 20th. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2016 WOW: @cbouzy : Someone started dumping Lockheed Martin stock just before Trump's tweet: Tweet was 8:26 AM EST, LMT dumping started 8:20 AM pic.twitter.com/43hyxd1s5E — Amichai Stein (@AmichaiStein1) December 12, 2016 It seems reasonable, looking at that chart. But there are several more likely reasons the stock started to plunge before Trump tapped out his tweet. One of those reasons is Trump himself, as  pointed out . Late the night before, the president-elect attacked the same Lockheed Martin program on Fox News Sunday. The algorithms that trade huge amounts of stock every minute do so in part based on their ability to detect when social opinion is turning on a company, and the soon-to-be president of the United States blasting any company on television is surely not a good sign for that company's stock. Things that happen Sunday night tend to get picked up by news outlets the next morning, which was never going to be a good thing for Lockheed Martin. Then there was another thing that happened around 24 minutes before Trump's 8:26 a.m. tweet on Monday, which was pointed out by both  and . At around 8 a.m. that day, various Twitter accounts started tweeting about the Zacks Investment Research downgrade of Lockheed Martin stock, something that was surely picked up by computers built to trade and sell off stock. Soon after and still before Trump's take down tweet, Jim Cramer of CNBC's Mad Money remarked about Trump's Sunday night comments. This also gained traction on social media. Algorithms factor in social media reaction to a company when deciding what to do with its stock, and considers when that stock has crossed a certain negative threshold. That line was likely crossed for Lockheed Martin sometime just before Trump's tweet causing the stock to tumble rapidly. Although the tweet, to be sure, didn't help the company. BONUS: Trump praises tech leaders

When it began pinging around on Twitter, the graph raised suspicion.

It showed the stock price of Lockheed Martin, an aerospace firm, jumping off a cliff only minutes before President-elect Donald Trump disparaged the company on Twitter.

Had Trump told people to dump their stock before he blasted Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet program?

The F-35 program and cost is out of control. Billions of dollars can and will be saved on military (and other) purchases after January 20th. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2016

WOW: @cbouzy: Someone started dumping Lockheed Martin stock just before Trump's tweet: Tweet was 8:26 AM EST, LMT dumping started 8:20 AM pic.twitter.com/43hyxd1s5E — Amichai Stein (@AmichaiStein1) December 12, 2016

It seems reasonable, looking at that chart. But there are several more likely reasons the stock started to plunge before Trump tapped out his tweet.

One of those reasons is Trump himself, as Business Insider pointed out. Late the night before, the president-elect attacked the same Lockheed Martin program on Fox News Sunday. The algorithms that trade huge amounts of stock every minute do so in part based on their ability to detect when social opinion is turning on a company, and the soon-to-be president of the United States blasting any company on television is surely not a good sign for that company's stock. Things that happen Sunday night tend to get picked up by news outlets the next morning, which was never going to be a good thing for Lockheed Martin.

Then there was another thing that happened around 24 minutes before Trump's 8:26 a.m. tweet on Monday, which was pointed out by both Business Insider and Fortune. At around 8 a.m. that day, various Twitter accounts started tweeting about the Zacks Investment Research downgrade of Lockheed Martin stock, something that was surely picked up by computers built to trade and sell off stock.

Soon after and still before Trump's take down tweet, Jim Cramer of CNBC's Mad Money remarked about Trump's Sunday night comments. This also gained traction on social media.

Algorithms factor in social media reaction to a company when deciding what to do with its stock, and considers when that stock has crossed a certain negative threshold. That line was likely crossed for Lockheed Martin sometime just before Trump's tweet causing the stock to tumble rapidly.

Although the tweet, to be sure, didn't help the company.