Nick Chubb, Sony Michel Announce They Will Return to Georgia in 2017
Nick Chubb, Sony Michel Announce They Will Return to Georgia in 2017
Georgia Bulldogs star running backs Nick Chubb and Sony Michel will return for their senior seasons in 2017, head coach Kirby Smart announced Thursday at a regularly-scheduled press conference, per Seth Emerson of DawgNation. Smart added that linebackers Chubb offered insight into his decision, per Anthony Dasher of UGASports.com: Nick Chubb said he decided to come back when he saw Ga. Tech tearing up the hedges and planting its flag on the G after their win at Sanford pic.twitter.com/dcacadL9ci  The pair served as a dangerous combination in 2016, with Chubb rushing 207 times for I don't think Chubb or Michel has maximized his grade yet, and another year might allow that to happen. This year did not allow it to happen, so if you're happy being a third-, fourth- or fifth-round pick, you come out. If you want to try and help your stock, you go back for another year. ... Chubb was great early but fell back a bit and wasn't as big-time and dynamic as you thought he would be. There were a lot of great running backs playing week in and week out, and I think that kind of pushed him down a little bit. He is not in the top 10 of the running back group, and my attitude with him is, 'Are you going to be OK if you drop a little bit?' A lot of kids are like, 'I know I can play, and I don't care where I go,' while others want to go somewhere or else they won't be happy. The 2017 NFL draft should be loaded at running back, with Leonard Fournette and Christian McCaffrey headlining a strong class, while Dalvin Cook would also be a potential first-round prospect if he goes pro. D'Onta Foreman could also sneak into the first round, so the decisions for both Chubb and Michel may be practical from a career standpoint, as next year's draft class seems unlikely to be as strong at the position.

Georgia Bulldogs star running backs Nick Chubb and Sony Michel will return for their senior seasons in 2017, head coach Kirby Smart announced Thursday at a regularly-scheduled press conference, per Seth Emerson of DawgNation.

Smart added that linebackers Lorenzo Carter and Davin Bellamy will also return.

Chubb offered insight into his decision, per Anthony Dasher of UGASports.com:

Nick Chubb said he decided to come back when he saw Ga. Tech tearing up the hedges and planting its flag on the G after their win at Sanford pic.twitter.com/dcacadL9ci — Anthony Dasher (@AnthonyDasher1) December 15, 2016

The pair served as a dangerous combination in 2016, with Chubb rushing 207 times for 988 yards and seven touchdowns, while Michel chipped in with 753 yards and three touchdowns on 137 carries.

Chubb was mostly healthy in 2016 after a knee injury last October cost him the remainder of the 2015 season. He is Georgia's most dangerous offensive weapon, even though his numbers were below expectations this year. Nonetheless, they were strong marks, considering his injury and the presence of the talented Michel behind him.

Bleacher Report's Matt Miller was more surprised to see Chubb return to school than he was at Michel's decision. However, during a conference call, ESPN's Mel Kiper Jr. told reporters he felt waiting a year to enter the draft was the best option for both players, per David Paschall of the Times Free Press:



I don't think Chubb or Michel has maximized his grade yet, and another year might allow that to happen. This year did not allow it to happen, so if you're happy being a third-, fourth- or fifth-round pick, you come out. If you want to try and help your stock, you go back for another year. ... Chubb was great early but fell back a bit and wasn't as big-time and dynamic as you thought he would be. There were a lot of great running backs playing week in and week out, and I think that kind of pushed him down a little bit. He is not in the top 10 of the running back group, and my attitude with him is, 'Are you going to be OK if you drop a little bit?' A lot of kids are like, 'I know I can play, and I don't care where I go,' while others want to go somewhere or else they won't be happy.

The 2017 NFL draft should be loaded at running back, with Leonard Fournette and Christian McCaffrey headlining a strong class, while Dalvin Cook would also be a potential first-round prospect if he goes pro.

D'Onta Foreman could also sneak into the first round, so the decisions for both Chubb and Michel may be practical from a career standpoint, as next year's draft class seems unlikely to be as strong at the position.

You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.