The Grand Tour episode 5 review: Moroccan Roll gave us generic, grumpy fun - and was all the better for it
The Grand Tour episode 5 review: Moroccan Roll gave us generic, grumpy fun - and was all the better for it
oing into episode five of Amazon’s “I Can’t Believe It’s Not Top Gear” blockbuster, the big question was whether we would be treated to further BBC-bashing breadcrumbs – and if anyone apart from five people on Twitter would pick up on them this time. During last week's episode of The Grand Tour , Jeremy Clarkson allegedly "went there" with a veiled reference to the crash-and-burn performance of his Top Gear replacement Chris Evans (who essentially quit the series 10 minutes after taking over). "I’m trying to think,” purred Jezza, “of a metaphor for someone who’s really tried their hardest with something and it hasn’t worked." A sneak peek at what’s to come this Friday on episode 5 of The Grand Tour: 'Moroccan Roll'. Stream new episodes every Friday on Prime Video. pic.twitter.com/iBRJoGKJWi nd on that bombshell, the internet threatened to spontaneously combust. Yet as zingers went, can we agree Clarkson’s was spectacularly watery stuff – so circumspect as to be meaningfulness? (this, incidentally, is the first recorded use of Jeremy Clarkson and "circumspect" in the same sentence). Would episode five treat us to more "controversy"? It seemed not – unless that bit where Clarkson inflated a sex doll with a V8 engine was a delicate critique of Beeb light entertainment commissioning policy…or something (no, it probably wasn’t). Time to Moroccan Roll. Stream episode 5 of #TheGrandTour on Prime Video now. pic.twitter.com/Ebe9KOPBRj nstead, this was perhaps the most generic Grand Tour outing yet – and also one of the more satisfying. Cars were driven across stunning locations, May and Hammond pretended to loathe Clarkson, banter was exchanged with the studio audience in Rotterdam. But rather than suffer for its sameyness the episode thrived amid the lowered stakes. This is what we wanted all along – 60 minutes of undemanding telly in which we followed three endearingly grumpy blokes on their exotic adventures. Viewers’s brains will have remained in neutral throughout and what fun it was coasting along without any thought as to the destination. Here is the rest of what we learned. Team Grand Tour remain winningly unfashionable msterdam would have been the boring and obvious choice for an episode shot in the Netherlands. Yet it made sense that Clarkson and company would instead chose that city's grittier, gruffer rival of Rotterdam: a place of endless container cranes and grumpy-looking skyscrapers. The Grand Tour threesome seemed perfectly at home holding court against a backdrop of rusted shipping crates. Creaky, peeling and looking like the whole thing might collapse inward at any moment – and that was just Jezza in the close-ups . Hang on… there was even some car stuff A gorgeously-shot segment in Morocco was a showcase for the millions Amazon is sinking into the Grand Tour. Yet it doubled as an honest-to-goodness motoring piece in which the trio compared and contrasted low-slung sports cars. Not a swooping helicopter or action-movie explosion in sight. Imagine. Is there a competition to see who comes up with the weirdest car metaphor? "This Mazda is a smartphone – it does everything,” enthused Hammond as he zipped through the desert. He had earlier compared the vehicle to a football boot. Next Clarkson popped up to liken an Alfa Romeo to a "cute bunny rabbit". Hammond by a nose, we think. Controversy... thy name isn't Richard Hammond "Plenty of things were great," said Hammond, eye-brows arched ominously. Then, the sidewinder. “Rolf Harris… can't love him now." He was banging on about why modern Alfa Romeos were a bit rubbish compared to their illustrious forebears. But the remark was more noteworthy in that someone other than Clarkson was having a go at being controversial. Keep trying Richard – or, actually, maybe just stop right now. The show is starting to come together cross its first four episodes, the Grand Tour swung from spectacular to ridiculous – and was often both at the same time. But instalment five got the mix right, with competent jibber-jabber between the hosts and segments that didn’t wear out their welcome. Even the jaw-dropping jaunt to North Africa – culminating with a race around a temple complex used in Game of Thrones – was more about cars than basking in the scenery. They’ve cracked the code. Steady on…was that  a quip about Brexit? “We can't even afford to put mayonnaise on our chips any more," said Clarkson, the closest he came to blurting out something outrageous in the entire hour (his follow-through remarks about assisted dying were merely unfunny ). The Battleships bit was Top Gear off the leash Whatever else you think about the Grand Tour you have to credit the old Top Gear crew for coming up with endlessly inventive ways of blowing all that Amazon dosh. This week Hammond and May faced off in a game of “Battleships” involving decommissioned hatch-backs dropped on each other’s “ships” (i.e. cars ready for the scrap-heap). Short of dousing bundles of £50 notes in paraffin and cranking up a flame-thrower, could they burn through the cash any faster? Yes, you saw Jeremy Clarkson inflate a sex toy with a V8 engine Unleashed upon Rotterdam’s finest adult toy emporia these grown-up (ish) school boys couldn't help themselves. Clarkson pretended to mistake a rude plastic device for a miniaturised traffic cone and we observed James May cradling a sex slave costume. What a time to be alive.

Going into episode five of Amazon’s “I Can’t Believe It’s Not Top Gear” blockbuster, the big question was whether we would be treated to further BBC-bashing breadcrumbs – and if anyone apart from five people on Twitter would pick up on them this time.

During last week's episode of The Grand Tour, Jeremy Clarkson allegedly "went there" with a veiled reference to the crash-and-burn performance of his Top Gear replacement Chris Evans (who essentially quit the series 10 minutes after taking over).

"I’m trying to think,” purred Jezza, “of a metaphor for someone who’s really tried their hardest with something and it hasn’t worked."