Would you wash your hands with leftovers from old cocktails?
Would you wash your hands with leftovers from old cocktails?
The brains behind 42Below vodka think they've nailed one of our biggest waste problems — cocktail goop. You know, those miscellaneous food bits left over from the dregs of your cocktail, or sometimes half munched on, depending on how tipsy you are. Lemon cocktail bits, specifically, are due to become a key ingredient in the hand-washes found at Sydney establishments, thanks to one vodka brand. 42Below Vodka have signed bars and nightclubs across Australia and New Zealand up to participate in the second-hand citrus soap scheme. As their rather funny campaign video shows, the recyclable rinds are collected and transported to a "top secret lab" where magic and/or science turns the usually-binned cocktail leftovers into hand sanitising, citrusy fresh, soap. The soap is then given back to the bars from whence the peels were procured. The rest? It's hygiene history. Martin Sheen, Moby plead with Republican electors to dump Trump Kid's sensational Fifth Harmony lip sync would make Michelle Obama proud Natalie Portman was in an environmental pop group as a kid Escape the daily grind with Blood Orange and Carly Rae Jepsen's new video

The brains behind 42Below vodka think they've nailed one of our biggest waste problems — cocktail goop.

You know, those miscellaneous food bits left over from the dregs of your cocktail, or sometimes half munched on, depending on how tipsy you are.

Lemon cocktail bits, specifically, are due to become a key ingredient in the hand-washes found at Sydney establishments, thanks to one vodka brand.

42Below Vodka have signed bars and nightclubs across Australia and New Zealand up to participate in the second-hand citrus soap scheme.

As their rather funny campaign video shows, the recyclable rinds are collected and transported to a "top secret lab" where magic and/or science turns the usually-binned cocktail leftovers into hand sanitising, citrusy fresh, soap.

The soap is then given back to the bars from whence the peels were procured.

The rest? It's hygiene history.