Security Caught Napping As 65-YO Woman Sneaks An Axe In A Metro Train, Attacks Passenger With It
Security Caught Napping As 65-YO Woman Sneaks An Axe In A Metro Train, Attacks Passenger
Security Caught Napping As 65-YO Woman Sneaks An Axe In A Metro Train, Attacks Passenger With It In a major security breach at Delhi's Qutub Minar Metro station, a 65-year-old unnamed woman tried to attack a fellow passenger with an axe over seating in a women-only coach of a Metro train. The incident happened on Wednesday evening and the attacker was immediately overpowered by other passengers who handed over to CISF personnel at the next station. Instead of detaining the woman, the CISF personnel let her go with just a warning after seizing the axe. According to Renu Sukhija, an eye-witness, the accused had boarded the women-only compartment of a Gurgaon-bound train at Qutub Minar Metro station. "While looking for a seat, she spotted a 32-year-old woman sitting on a seat reserved for the elderly. She first asked the woman to vacate the seat for her, but when this was met with a flat refusal, the elderly woman slapped her," said Sukhija. It was at that moment that Sukhija, her friend Najiba Kazmi and another passenger, Reeti, intervened and requested the elderly woman not to indulge in a fight inside a Metro compartment. That only enraged the accused, who then took the axe out of her bag and tried to attack Kazmi. Seeing the axe in her hand, other commuters panicked and started shouting for help. A few women passengers in the compartment, however, acted swiftly and caught her and wrested the axe from her. She was deboarded with the help of CISF security staff at Ghitorni Metro station. The CISF has initiated a probe into the incident. "We are probing the incident as it is a serious lapse on the part of the security personnel at the entry point of the Metro station. If needed, action will be taken against the security officials who failed to prevent the entry of the accused woman with an axe in her bag," said a CISF officer.

In a major security breach at Delhi's Qutub Minar Metro station, a 65-year-old unnamed woman tried to attack a fellow passenger with an axe over seating in a women-only coach of a Metro train.

AFP/Representational Image

The incident happened on Wednesday evening and the attacker was immediately overpowered by other passengers who handed over to CISF personnel at the next station.

Instead of detaining the woman, the CISF personnel let her go with just a warning after seizing the axe.

According to Renu Sukhija, an eye-witness, the accused had boarded the women-only compartment of a Gurgaon-bound train at Qutub Minar Metro station.

BCCL

"While looking for a seat, she spotted a 32-year-old woman sitting on a seat reserved for the elderly. She first asked the woman to vacate the seat for her, but when this was met with a flat refusal, the elderly woman slapped her," said Sukhija.

It was at that moment that Sukhija, her friend Najiba Kazmi and another passenger, Reeti, intervened and requested the elderly woman not to indulge in a fight inside a Metro compartment.

That only enraged the accused, who then took the axe out of her bag and tried to attack Kazmi.

Seeing the axe in her hand, other commuters panicked and started shouting for help. A few women passengers in the compartment, however, acted swiftly and caught her and wrested the axe from her. She was deboarded with the help of CISF security staff at Ghitorni Metro station.

PTI

The CISF has initiated a probe into the incident. "We are probing the incident as it is a serious lapse on the part of the security personnel at the entry point of the Metro station.

If needed, action will be taken against the security officials who failed to prevent the entry of the accused woman with an axe in her bag," said a CISF officer.

With inputs from The Times of India