Autism could be caused by a lack of a protein in the brain, study finds
Autism could be caused by lack of protein in brain, scientists say  


Autism could be caused by a lack of protein in the brain, new research suggests.

A third of cases are believed to be down to a lack of nSR100, which is important for normal brain development.

Experts say this can cause mistakes in the wiring of the brain and potentially lead to common traits of the disorder.

A third of autism cases are believed to be down to a lack of nSR100, which is important for normal brain development (stock)

Researchers from the University of Toronto lowered levels of the protein, which controls the building of cells, in mice.

They found that a reduction in nSR100 by just half was enough to trigger typical autistic behaviours.

These include avoidance of social interactions and heightened sensitivity to noise.

This is the second study of the protein by the Canadian scientists. The first showed that nSR100 is reduced in the brains of autistic people.

Lead researcher, Dr Sabine Cordes, said: 'We previously reported an association between nSR100 protein levels and autism.

'But this time we show that reduced levels of this protein could really be causative – that’s a big deal.

Experts say this can cause mistakes in the wiring of the brain and potentially lead to common traits of the disorder

'Just by reducing the nSR100 levels by 50 per cent, we observe hallmarks of autistic behaviour.'

Autism - which is known best for altering social behaviour - is a neurological disorder affecting more than one per cent of the population.

While its origins are genetic, the specific causes are known in only a fraction of cases.

For the majority of people diagnosed, the reasons behind their disorder remain unclear.

Previous research has found a lack of vitamin D in the diet of pregnant women increases the risk.

A University of Queensland study found women who had low levels at 20 weeks' were more likely to have children displaying autistic traits by the age of six,