Once-conjoined twins going to rehab 9 weeks after separation
Once-conjoined twins going to rehab 9 weeks after separation
Incredible Health Once-conjoined twins going to rehab 9 weeks after separation This photo provided by Montefiore Hospital shows, from left, Dr. Oren Tepper and  Dr.  James Goodrich holding a pair of formerly conjoined twins, Jadon, left and Anias in New York.  Jadon and Anias were separated in a 20-hour procedure at New York City’s Montefiore Medical Center on Oct. 13 and 14, 2016. The hospital says they have been transferred to Blythedale Children's Hospital in suburban Westchester, where they will receive specialized rehabilitation care.  (Montefiore Hospital via AP) Formerly conjoined twins Jadon and Anias McDonald have transferred to a new hospital to begin rehabilitation nine weeks after being separated. The twins were separated in a 20-hour procedure at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx on Oct. 13 and 14. They left the New York City hospital that had been their home since February, transferring to Blythedale Children's Hospital in suburban Westchester. There, they'll receive specialized rehabilitation care, the medical center said Thursday. The now 15-month-old twins were attached at the brain and the skull. The hospital says the boys suffered infections following the surgery, and Anias developed seizures that are now being controlled with medication. Seizures aren't uncommon among twins who were conjoined at the brain, Montefiore said. More on this...  Conjoined twins now separated say 'dada' for the first time   Mother of twins conjoined at head holds son for first time   Separated conjoined twins meet for first time since surgery  Despite the challenges, the hospital said the boys are able to breathe on their own, eat, interact with their family and play with one another. The 40-person surgical team that separated the twins was led in part by Dr. James Goodrich. It's the seventh set of twins joined at the head that he has helped successfully separate. He called it one of his "most difficult cases." After the twins arrived at the hospital in February, the four-stage separation procedure was planned, in-part, by using 3D printing technology to map the boys' anatomy. "We knew recovery would take time, but we are all amazed by how well the boys are bouncing back and are confident they will continue to achieve new milestones at Blythedale," Goodrich said in a statement. Goodrich and Dr. Oren Tepper, who also led the surgery, will continue to monitor the boys' progress during rehabilitation.

Formerly conjoined twins Jadon and Anias McDonald have transferred to a new hospital to begin rehabilitation nine weeks after being separated.

The twins were separated in a 20-hour procedure at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx on Oct. 13 and 14. They left the New York City hospital that had been their home since February, transferring to Blythedale Children's Hospital in suburban Westchester. There, they'll receive specialized rehabilitation care, the medical center said Thursday.

The now 15-month-old twins were attached at the brain and the skull. The hospital says the boys suffered infections following the surgery, and Anias developed seizures that are now being controlled with medication. Seizures aren't uncommon among twins who were conjoined at the brain, Montefiore said.

Despite the challenges, the hospital said the boys are able to breathe on their own, eat, interact with their family and play with one another.

The 40-person surgical team that separated the twins was led in part by Dr. James Goodrich. It's the seventh set of twins joined at the head that he has helped successfully separate. He called it one of his "most difficult cases." After the twins arrived at the hospital in February, the four-stage separation procedure was planned, in-part, by using 3D printing technology to map the boys' anatomy.

"We knew recovery would take time, but we are all amazed by how well the boys are bouncing back and are confident they will continue to achieve new milestones at Blythedale," Goodrich said in a statement.

Goodrich and Dr. Oren Tepper, who also led the surgery, will continue to monitor the boys' progress during rehabilitation.