China to build yet ANOTHER sky-high glass bridge and this time it's 'invisible'
China to build ANOTHER scary glass bridge in the 'Avatar' mountains


Thrill seekers rejoice - China is building yet another terrifying glass-bottomed bridge in its 'Avatar' mountains.

It was only in August that the Chinese unveiled the world's longest and highest glass bridge in the mountain range that inspired the film Avatar, in the Hunan province, but now architects have gone one further.

They've designed an 'invisible' bridge that's spectacular and scary in equal measure.

Scroll down for videos

The bridge will be built using mirrored stainless steel with a floor of black stone that becomes reflective when wet

Water will be sprayed onto the path every seven minutes creating a temporary cloud and misty effect between the mountains

The incredible structure is designed to blend in with the landscape of the mountains of Zhangjiajie.

The transparent footbridge, suspended high between two mountain-tops, will cost over £4million to build and has been created by Martin Duplantier Architectes (MDA) and Daqian Landscape Architects, who won a design competition.

It will be built using mirrored stainless steel and the floor will be made of black stone that becomes reflective when wet, according to Designboom.com.

The idea is that the structure mirrors the environment and gives the optical illusion of blending into thin air -definitely making it unsuitable for those scared of heights.

The bridge will be made up of two layers, however, so there are some options for nervous visitors.

The upper level that connects the two rock faces is in the shape of an elliptical disk and doesn't have a see-through floor.

A winding black stone path leads intrepid explorers from one peak to the other.

The idea is that the impressive structure mirrors the environment and gives the optical illusion of blending into thin air

Surrounding the path is a layer of water two centimetres thick, which is sprayed onto it every seven minutes by nozzles creating a temporary cloud and mist between the mountains.

The lower level is where things start to get seriously scary however.

The floor is 100 per cent glass, allowing brave visitors to gaze at the void below.

As well as walking across the hair-raising bridge you can also sleep in one of three pavilions, which will also be built sky-high

It will cost over $4million and has been designed by Martin Duplantier Architectes (MDA) and Daqian Landscape Architects

As well as walking across the hair-raising bridge you can also sleep in one of three pavilions that will also be built on nearby rocky outcrops.

The pavilions, stacked on top of each other, all offer incredible views but none so much as the rooftop, with its 360-degree panorama.

A café is positioned at the middle level and below that are exclusive VIP suites that allow select guests to spend the night overlooking the picturesque landscape.

Zhangjiajie is already home to the world's longest and tallest glass bridge so the spot is quickly becoming a destination for adrenaline junkies.

The world's longest and tallest glass-bottomed bridge (pictured) is also in the Zhangjiajie in the 'Avatar' mountains

It spans approximately 430 metres (1,400 feet) across two peaks and is suspended 300 metres (984ft) above a sheer drop