Here's How Bananas Are Coming To The Rescue Of The Tribal Economy In India
Here's How Bananas Are Coming To The Rescue Of The Tribal Economy In India
Here's How Bananas Are Coming To The Rescue Of The Tribal Economy In India The tribal-dominated Gumudumaha village in Kandhamal district, which made headlines in July after five villagers including a child were allegedly killed in firing by security forces, is abuzz with activities for economic growth of the region. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Baliguda, has taken up banana plantation on 20-acres of land with the involvement of 67-odd families of the village. The agency will also dig up wells to provide water for irrigation. "We have decided to take up banana plantation in the village. We will dig eight wells for irrigation purpose and also to mitigate water shortage in the village," said Ramesh Chandra Behera, project director ITDA Baliguda. Behera said around Rs 14 lakh would be spent on the project. "The economic condition of the tribal people of the village is likely to somehow change with the cultivation of banana," he added. Five innocent people had died in the alleged exchange of fires in the village on July 8 near the village. Besides state politicians, senior bureaucrats and police officials visited the village on the aftermath of the incident. The government had faced criticism from different quarters, including opposition parties, civil societies and rights activists due to the lack of infrastructure facilities like drinking water, communication, healthcare in the village.

The tribal-dominated Gumudumaha village in Kandhamal district, which made headlines in July after five villagers including a child were allegedly killed in firing by security forces, is abuzz with activities for economic growth of the region.

The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Baliguda, has taken up banana plantation on 20-acres of land with the involvement of 67-odd families of the village. The agency will also dig up wells to provide water for irrigation.

"We have decided to take up banana plantation in the village. We will dig eight wells for irrigation purpose and also to mitigate water shortage in the village," said Ramesh Chandra Behera, project director ITDA Baliguda.

Behera said around Rs 14 lakh would be spent on the project. "The economic condition of the tribal people of the village is likely to somehow change with the cultivation of banana," he added.

Five innocent people had died in the alleged exchange of fires in the village on July 8 near the village. Besides state politicians, senior bureaucrats and police officials visited the village on the aftermath of the incident.

The government had faced criticism from different quarters, including opposition parties, civil societies and rights activists due to the lack of infrastructure facilities like drinking water, communication, healthcare in the village.