European Middleman Haschke Has Admitted To Swiss Authorities About SP Tyagi's Bribe Share, Says CBI
European Middleman Has Admitted To Swiss Authorities About SP Tyagi's Bribe Share, Says CBI
European Middleman Haschke Has Admitted To Swiss Authorities About SP Tyagi's Bribe Share, Says CBI European middleman Guido Haschke's statement to Swiss authorities discloses how and what "percentage of bribes" were paid to former IAF chief Shashindra Pal Tyagi and his cousin, Sanjeev Tyagi, which allegedly resulted in AgustaWestland bagging the 3,564 crore VVIP helicopter contract in 2010 , CBI said. CBI claimed that Haschke disclosed that Sanjeev told him about his brother (S P Tyagi) becoming IAF chief, therefore allegedly enabling AgustaWestland to lobby for the deal. The former IAF chief has been accused of taking bribes in the purchase of 12 helicopters from AgustaWestland . The CBI sought another seven days' custody of the Tyagis and Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Khaitan. The special CBI judge extended their custody till December 17. Arguing before special CBI judge Arvind Kumar, who extended custody till December 17, The CBI counsel reiterated his earlier argument about Tyagi making huge investments in property. "The purchase of land is not reflected in his (Tyagi's) income tax returns. The source of money is also not reflected," the CBI lawyer argued. Advocate Maneka Guruswamy, who appeared for S P Tyagi, contested the argument, saying the CBI had "humiliated and tarnished" the reputation of Tyagi, 71, a "decorated war hero". The lawyer pointed out the CBI had raided Tyagi's house and taken possession of sale deeds and bank account statements. "The properties were acquired legally with hard-earned money," asserted Guruswamy, adding, "Why do they need to arrest him, just to see the sale deed?" The lawyer argued that in February 2005 a meeting comprising a delegation of 600 members, led by the then Italian president, had met government of India officials. Tyagi was also part of the meeting in his "official capacity", it was argued. Calling it a vague, vexatious prosecution of Tyagi, Guruswamy referred to the CBI FIR and said the only allegation it mentions about Tyagi is that he "also received some amount in cash". CBI, on the other hand, argued it had recently received letters rogatory from Mauritius and it was essential for the accused to confront each other in relation to evidence collected from India and abroad. It accused Tyagi of rigging operational requirements, including bringing down the operational flying ceiling from 6,000 metres to 4,500 metres, to help AgustaWestland bag the 3,564-crore order for 12 helicopters.

European middleman Guido Haschke's statement to Swiss authorities discloses how and what "percentage of bribes" were paid to former IAF chief Shashindra Pal Tyagi and his cousin, Sanjeev Tyagi, which allegedly resulted in AgustaWestland bagging the 3,564 crore VVIP helicopter contract in 2010, CBI said.

PTI

CBI claimed that Haschke disclosed that Sanjeev told him about his brother (S P Tyagi) becoming IAF chief, therefore allegedly enabling AgustaWestland to lobby for the deal. The former IAF chief has been accused of taking bribes in the purchase of 12 helicopters from AgustaWestland.

The CBI sought another seven days' custody of the Tyagis and Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Khaitan. The special CBI judge extended their custody till December 17. Arguing before special CBI judge Arvind Kumar, who extended custody till December 17, The CBI counsel reiterated his earlier argument about Tyagi making huge investments in property. "The purchase of land is not reflected in his (Tyagi's) income tax returns. The source of money is also not reflected," the CBI lawyer argued.

AFP

Advocate Maneka Guruswamy, who appeared for S P Tyagi, contested the argument, saying the CBI had "humiliated and tarnished" the reputation of Tyagi, 71, a "decorated war hero". The lawyer pointed out the CBI had raided Tyagi's house and taken possession of sale deeds and bank account statements. "The properties were acquired legally with hard-earned money," asserted Guruswamy, adding, "Why do they need to arrest him, just to see the sale deed?"

The lawyer argued that in February 2005 a meeting comprising a delegation of 600 members, led by the then Italian president, had met government of India officials. Tyagi was also part of the meeting in his "official capacity", it was argued.

PTI

Calling it a vague, vexatious prosecution of Tyagi, Guruswamy referred to the CBI FIR and said the only allegation it mentions about Tyagi is that he "also received some amount in cash".

CBI, on the other hand, argued it had recently received letters rogatory from Mauritius and it was essential for the accused to confront each other in relation to evidence collected from India and abroad. It accused Tyagi of rigging operational requirements, including bringing down the operational flying ceiling from 6,000 metres to 4,500 metres, to help AgustaWestland bag the 3,564-crore order for 12 helicopters.

Originally Published in the Times Of India