Chris Brown, Usher and Gucci Mane Get the 'Party' Started: Watch
Chris Brown, Usher and Gucci Mane Get the 'Party' Started: Watch
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Chris Brown, Usher and Gucci Mane Get the 'Party' Started: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Two’s company, three’s a party. calls up support from and for his new track, “Party.” There’s no prize for guessing what this number’s about. The single and its official video dropped at midnight and is expected to appear on Brown’s forthcoming album . The new clip stars Brown and his two party pals, who invite a cast of dozens to get a rave going in an empty warehouse. #PARTY is now available worldwide on @AppleMusic ! https://t.co/hWokIAfAez  pic.twitter.com/7T9jlL6cU6 It’s been a relatively quiet 2016 for Brown. "Party" is Breezy’s first release since “Grass Ain’t Greener” dropped in May, though he has appeared as a featured artist on a string of tracks including "Waves." A year ago this month, Brown scored his sixth No. 1 album on the Top R&B/Hip Hop Albums chart with . A release date for has yet to be announced. Watch “Party” featuring Usher and Gucci Mane below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Chris Brown performs at Smoothie King Center on Feb. 12, 2016 in New Orleans.

Two’s company, three’s a party. Chris Brown calls up support from Usher and Gucci Mane for his new track, “Party.” There’s no prize for guessing what this number’s about.

The single and its official video dropped at midnight and is expected to appear on Brown’s forthcoming album Heartbreak On a Full Moon.

The new clip stars Brown and his two party pals, who invite a cast of dozens to get a rave going in an empty warehouse.

It’s been a relatively quiet 2016 for Brown. "Party" is Breezy’s first release since “Grass Ain’t Greener” dropped in May, though he has appeared as a featured artist on a string of tracks including Kanye West’s "Waves."

A year ago this month, Brown scored his sixth No. 1 album on the Top R&B/Hip Hop Albums chart with Royalty.

A release date for Heartbreak On A Full Moon has yet to be announced.

Watch “Party” featuring Usher and Gucci Mane below.