Brace Yourself For More Bank Queues As Limits On Cash Withdrawal May Not End On December 30
Brace Yourself For More Bank Queues As Limits On Cash Withdrawal May Not End On December 30
Brace Yourself For More Bank Queues As Limits On Cash Withdrawal May Not End On December 30 A top government official has indicated that the Centre will only begin easing restrictions when a significant amount of new currency is reintroduced into the system. The official also hinted that restrictions on cash withdrawals may not be removed in one go after December 30. Government might keep restrictions in place till over three-fourths of the Rs 15.44 lakh crore that was circulating before November 8 is fully replenished, the official said. The RBI has infused more than Rs 5 lakh crore of currency notes into the banking system since November 8. At a separate briefing Thursday, Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das said that 50 per cent worth of the withdrawn currency would be in circulation by “the end of the month”. “Roughly whatever has been taken out… by the end of the month, about at least 50 per cent of the notes which were in circulation, which were actually in circulation, at least 50 per cent of the notes would have been supplied in another 10-15 days,” Das said. “Seized notes are also being put into circulation as soon as possible. How many notes have been seized, I don’t have the data immediately,” he said. By December 10, currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 amounting to Rs 12.44 lakh crore had been returned to RBI and the currency chests — these notes accounted for 86 per cent or Rs 15.44 lakh crore of bank notes in circulation as on November 8. Going by the rate at which fresh currency has been replenished so far, it could conservatively take up to the second week of January to replenish three-fourths of the total withdrawn currency. The official who spoke earlier — he did not wish to be named — said the restrictions on cash withdrawals will be first eased in case of cooperative banks and then for all scheduled commercial banks.

A top government official has indicated that the Centre will only begin easing restrictions when a significant amount of new currency is reintroduced into the system.

AFP

The official also hinted that restrictions on cash withdrawals may not be removed in one go after December 30. Government might keep restrictions in place till over three-fourths of the Rs 15.44 lakh crore that was circulating before November 8 is fully replenished, the official said.

The RBI has infused more than Rs 5 lakh crore of currency notes into the banking system since November 8. At a separate briefing Thursday, Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das said that 50 per cent worth of the withdrawn currency would be in circulation by “the end of the month”.

AP

“Roughly whatever has been taken out… by the end of the month, about at least 50 per cent of the notes which were in circulation, which were actually in circulation, at least 50 per cent of the notes would have been supplied in another 10-15 days,” Das said.

“Seized notes are also being put into circulation as soon as possible. How many notes have been seized, I don’t have the data immediately,” he said.

By December 10, currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 amounting to Rs 12.44 lakh crore had been returned to RBI and the currency chests — these notes accounted for 86 per cent or Rs 15.44 lakh crore of bank notes in circulation as on November 8.

BCCL

Going by the rate at which fresh currency has been replenished so far, it could conservatively take up to the second week of January to replenish three-fourths of the total withdrawn currency.

The official who spoke earlier — he did not wish to be named — said the restrictions on cash withdrawals will be first eased in case of cooperative banks and then for all scheduled commercial banks.

With inputs from ENS