Here’s The First Posed Photo Of Kim Kardashian Out In Public Since The Robbery
Here's The First Posed Photo Of Kim Kardashian Out In Public Since The Robbery
You’ll probably be aware that Kim Kardashian has had a rough few months. First there was the robbery in October, where Kim was held up at gunpoint in her apartment in Paris and had millions of dollars worth of jewellery stolen.  View on Instagram And then at the end of last month Kanye West was hospitalised following “temporary psychosis” caused by exhaustion and sleep deprivation. Kim was due to make an appearance at a cancer fundraiser event honouring her late father Robert Kardashian in New York, but immediately flew back to LA after hearing that Kanye had been hospitalised. Reports said she refused to leave his side for the week he was in hospital. And, as if that wasn’t enough, there have been some pretty nasty rumours swirling about the state of Kim and Kanye’s marriage since his hospitalisation. Sources close to the pair have denied the rumours of a divorce. Since the robbery Kim has, understandably, remained completely out of the public eye. She’s remained off social media and hasn’t been seen publicly since the week after the ordeal.  View on Instagram However, yesterday Kim made her first public appearance in over two months at a friend’s Christmas party, and posed for a photo.  View on Instagram Despite all the stress from the past few months, Kim looked goddamn gorgeous. In a change from the Kim we’re used to, she also appeared to be wearing a hoodie and no jewellery – so perhaps the reports about her changing her lifestyle since the robbery are true. And it’s something people noticed in the comments, too. Either way, it’s good to see Kim out and about again.   Which Christmas Food Has To Go?    11 Planners That Will Hopefully Save You When Everything...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.