Steve Kerr gave fans the perfect way to remember Craig Sager

Remembrances of Turner Sports reporter Craig Sager began pouring in immediately after the news of his death was announced Thursday evening. Perhaps the best came from Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, who spent time working alongside Sager with Turner earlier this century and was a close friend.   Speaking to the crowd while wearing a very Sager-esque tie before Thursday night’s Golden State-New York game, Kerr said that a moment of silence wouldn’t be appropriate for Sager. He had something far more joyous in mind. Pretty cool: Steve Kerr gathers teams, remembers Craig Sager with speech and then calls for moment of joy/applause from Oracle crowd pic.twitter.com/e8MoMgORnC — Anthony Slater (@anthonyVslater) December 16, 2016 “Craig’s death and the news today far outweighs anything that happens in the gym,” Kerr said after the Warriors’ 103-90 win, according to the Associated Press . More on Sager: Craig Sager, TV sports reporter known for colorful wardrobe, dies at 65 Craig Sager was a true original whose courage and commitment will never be forgotten



Steve Kerr speaks to the crowd about Craig Sager. (Kyle Terada/USA Today Sports)

Remembrances of Turner Sports reporter Craig Sager began pouring in immediately after the news of his death was announced Thursday evening. Perhaps the best came from Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, who spent time working alongside Sager with Turner earlier this century and was a close friend.

[Craig Sager’s son shares touching photo montage in the wake of his father’s death]

Speaking to the crowd while wearing a very Sager-esque tie before Thursday night’s Golden State-New York game, Kerr said that a moment of silence wouldn’t be appropriate for Sager. He had something far more joyous in mind.

Pretty cool: Steve Kerr gathers teams, remembers Craig Sager with speech and then calls for moment of joy/applause from Oracle crowd pic.twitter.com/e8MoMgORnC — Anthony Slater (@anthonyVslater) December 16, 2016

“Craig’s death and the news today far outweighs anything that happens in the gym,” Kerr said after the Warriors’ 103-90 win, according to the Associated Press.

More on Sager:

Craig Sager, TV sports reporter known for colorful wardrobe, dies at 65

Craig Sager was a true original whose courage and commitment will never be forgotten