Treasury Nominee Mnuchin's Defunct Hedge Fund Is Not What Trump Boasts
Treasury Nominee Mnuchin's Defunct Hedge Fund Is Not What Trump Boasts
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kate Vinton       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Donald Trump's Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin (Photo credit should read BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images) On November 30, President-elect Donald Trump announced his pick for Secretary of Treasury: Goldman Sachs alum Steven Mnuchin, who was identified in a statement from Trump's team as chairman and co-CEO of “one of the country’s premier investment firms." What the announcement failed to mention is that the firm, Dune Capital Management, a hedge fund that had $2.5 billion in assets in 2006, filed papers with the U.S. securities regulator to shut down in 2013.  It's difficult, if not impossible, to be a premier investment firm today if, as the filing indicates, Dune Capital Management returned funds to investors three years ago. Mnuchin has plenty of experience in finance, but he hasn’t been running anything close to a “premier investment firm” since the financial crisis, despite many media mentions to the contrary following his nomination. He spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs, left in 2002, and two years later, he founded hedge fund Dune Capital Management with two fellow Goldman Sachs alums, Daniel Neidich and Chip Seelig. The firm, which had a real estate investing arm led by Neidich, appears to have attracted significant investments in its first two years. In 2006, Dune Capital claimed in a press release to have $2.5 billion in assets under management. Then, three years later, Mnuchin purchased California failed subprime mortgage lender IndyMac bank with a group of billionaire investors (including George Soros, John Paulson and Michael Dell) for $1.55 billion  -- it had been taken over by federal regulators -- and turned his focus to the bank, renamed OneWest, where he became vice chairman. In 2010, the hedge fund and the real estate arms of Dune Capital split. Neidich, who had been running Dune Capital’s two real estate funds, transitioned those funds to Dune Real Estate Partners, where he serves as CEO today. The firm has $2.3 billion in assets under management, according to its March 2016 filing with the SEC. Mnuchin is not listed as either an owner or an executive on Dune Real Estate Partners' website or in its latest SEC filing. Dune Real Estate Partners declined to comment. What happened to the rest of Dune Capital? A May 2013 report by financial consulting firm Callan Associates for State Universities Retirement System of Illinois, which is available online , stated that "[a]head of the Global Financial Crisis, the hedge fund saw increased redemptions, at which point Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Seelig decided to wind down the hedge fund platform and pursue other related opportunities." A spokesperson for Mnuchin did not return a request for comment on the transition. By March 2012, without its real estate funds, Mnuchin’s Dune Capital had just $212.5 million in assets under management, according to the hedge fund’s annual filing with the SEC. By March 2013, it had assets of $192.4 million, according to the last annual hedge fund filing with the SEC from Dune Capital. Six months later, Dune Capital filed something called a "Form ADV-W" with the SEC, stating the firm’s withdrawal of registration as an investment adviser. According to the document, which FORBES obtained via the Freedom of Information Act, Dune Capital only had $13.8 million assets under management at the time. The document, which is dated September 30, 2013, states: “Dune Capital Management LP (“Dune”) is currently winding down its operations and the operations of its advisory clients. Dune’s advisory clients have liquidated substantially all of their respective assets, and substantially all investor assets have been returned to investors.”  The document also states: “In connection with the return of investor assets in the wind-down process, Dune’s regulatory AUM [assets under management] is below the $25MM minimum threshold for SEC registration.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

On November 30, President-elect Donald Trump announced his pick for Secretary of Treasury: Goldman Sachs alum Steven Mnuchin, who was identified in a statement from Trump's team as chairman and co-CEO of “one of the country’s premier investment firms." What the announcement failed to mention is that the firm, Dune Capital Management, a hedge fund that had $2.5 billion in assets in 2006, filed papers with the U.S. securities regulator to shut down in 2013. It's difficult, if not impossible, to be a premier investment firm today if, as the filing indicates, Dune Capital Management returned funds to investors three years ago.

Mnuchin has plenty of experience in finance, but he hasn’t been running anything close to a “premier investment firm” since the financial crisis, despite many media mentions to the contrary following his nomination. He spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs, left in 2002, and two years later, he founded hedge fund Dune Capital Management with two fellow Goldman Sachs alums, Daniel Neidich and Chip Seelig. The firm, which had a real estate investing arm led by Neidich, appears to have attracted significant investments in its first two years. In 2006, Dune Capital claimed in a press release to have $2.5 billion in assets under management.

Then, three years later, Mnuchin purchased California failed subprime mortgage lender IndyMac bank with a group of billionaire investors (including George Soros, John Paulson and Michael Dell) for $1.55 billion -- it had been taken over by federal regulators -- and turned his focus to the bank, renamed OneWest, where he became vice chairman.

In 2010, the hedge fund and the real estate arms of Dune Capital split. Neidich, who had been running Dune Capital’s two real estate funds, transitioned those funds to Dune Real Estate Partners, where he serves as CEO today. The firm has $2.3 billion in assets under management, according to its March 2016 filing with the SEC. Mnuchin is not listed as either an owner or an executive on Dune Real Estate Partners' website or in its latest SEC filing. Dune Real Estate Partners declined to comment.

What happened to the rest of Dune Capital? A May 2013 report by financial consulting firm Callan Associates for State Universities Retirement System of Illinois, which is available online, stated that "[a]head of the Global Financial Crisis, the hedge fund saw increased redemptions, at which point Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Seelig decided to wind down the hedge fund platform and pursue other related opportunities." A spokesperson for Mnuchin did not return a request for comment on the transition.

By March 2012, without its real estate funds, Mnuchin’s Dune Capital had just $212.5 million in assets under management, according to the hedge fund’s annual filing with the SEC. By March 2013, it had assets of $192.4 million, according to the last annual hedge fund filing with the SEC from Dune Capital. Six months later, Dune Capital filed something called a "Form ADV-W" with the SEC, stating the firm’s withdrawal of registration as an investment adviser. According to the document, which FORBES obtained via the Freedom of Information Act, Dune Capital only had $13.8 million assets under management at the time.

The document, which is dated September 30, 2013, states: “Dune Capital Management LP (“Dune”) is currently winding down its operations and the operations of its advisory clients. Dune’s advisory clients have liquidated substantially all of their respective assets, and substantially all investor assets have been returned to investors.” The document also states: “In connection with the return of investor assets in the wind-down process, Dune’s regulatory AUM [assets under management] is below the $25MM minimum threshold for SEC registration.”