Mike Conley Injury Update: Grizzlies PG to Return vs. Kings
Mike Conley Injury Update: Grizzlies PG to Return vs. Kings
Memphis Grizzlies point guard Mike Conley is set to return from a back injury to play Friday night against the Sacramento Kings . Grizzlies PR provided an updated injury report, which confirmed Conley will make his return to game action after missing the team's previous nine contests. Grizzlies PR announced he was officially activated ahead of the game. The 29-year-old Ohio State product suffered the setback Nov. 28 during a game against the Charlotte Hornets . He left the contest in the third quarter after playing just 20 minutes and did not return. AJ Neuharth-Keusch and Sam Amick of originally reported the guard was expected to miss at least six weeks while recovering from fractures in his lower back. In the end, Conley is prepared to make his comeback after less than three weeks. Michael Wallace of the Grizzlies' official website passed along comments from the floor general about his speedy rehab. "When you see everyone sacrificing and playing so hard...it makes you want to get out there even more," Conley said. "I can't wait." The 2007 fourth overall pick started the campaign strong after signing the richest contract in NBA history during the offseason. He was averaging 19.2 points, 5.7 assists and 3.5 rebounds while shooting 46.7 percent from beyond the arc across 17 games.                 His 23.14 player efficiency rating ranked eighth in the NBA among point guards, according to ESPN . The Grizzlies actually held down the fort quite well in his absence with a 7-2 record. That doesn't change the long-term outlook when it comes to playing time, however. Conley will see a vast majority of the minutes at the point, with Andrew Harrison moving back into a rotational role. There's always some additional concern when a player gets back in the lineup so quickly after a seemingly serious issue, especially since Conley's dealt with some injury problems in recent years. Memphis may work him back in slowly as a result, but his return is a nice boost nevertheless.

Memphis Grizzlies point guard Mike Conley is set to return from a back injury to play Friday night against the Sacramento Kings.

Grizzlies PR provided an updated injury report, which confirmed Conley will make his return to game action after missing the team's previous nine contests. Grizzlies PR announced he was officially activated ahead of the game.

The 29-year-old Ohio State product suffered the setback Nov. 28 during a game against the Charlotte Hornets. He left the contest in the third quarter after playing just 20 minutes and did not return.

AJ Neuharth-Keusch and Sam Amick of USA Today originally reported the guard was expected to miss at least six weeks while recovering from fractures in his lower back.

In the end, Conley is prepared to make his comeback after less than three weeks. Michael Wallace of the Grizzlies' official website passed along comments from the floor general about his speedy rehab.

"When you see everyone sacrificing and playing so hard...it makes you want to get out there even more," Conley said. "I can't wait."

The 2007 fourth overall pick started the campaign strong after signing the richest contract in NBA history during the offseason. He was averaging 19.2 points, 5.7 assists and 3.5 rebounds while shooting 46.7 percent from beyond the arc across 17 games.

His 23.14 player efficiency rating ranked eighth in the NBA among point guards, according to ESPN.

The Grizzlies actually held down the fort quite well in his absence with a 7-2 record.

That doesn't change the long-term outlook when it comes to playing time, however. Conley will see a vast majority of the minutes at the point, with Andrew Harrison moving back into a rotational role.

There's always some additional concern when a player gets back in the lineup so quickly after a seemingly serious issue, especially since Conley's dealt with some injury problems in recent years. Memphis may work him back in slowly as a result, but his return is a nice boost nevertheless.