Putin's warships are back: Royal Navy is deployed to escort a Russian frigate through the English Channel
Royal Navy deployed to escort Russian frigate through English Channel 


A Russian warship has been escorted by the Royal Navy through British waters for the second time in a fortnight.

Yaroslav Mudry was encountered by Navy frigate HMS Sutherland at the English Channel entrance yesterday.

She was monitored while sailing through UK waters as diplomatic tensions rise between Moscow and London.

Scroll down for video

Escort: Yaroslav Mudry (rear) was encountered by the HMS Sutherland (front) at the entrance to the English Channel

British ministers have been lining up to condemn Russia's support for Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

It comes after his regime's forces won a brutal victory in the four-year battle for war-torn Aleppo.

Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has summoned Russian ambassador Alexander Yakovenko to the Foreign Office.

He is insistent that Moscow deserves no credit for the evacuation of civilians from the shattered Syrian city.

Mr Johnson expressed 'deep concern' at reports of civilians being executed and ambulances being shot.

'Disappearances' were also allegedly carried out by pro-Assad forces in formerly rebel-held areas in east Aleppo.

The Yaroslav Mudry was monitored while sailing through UK waters as diplomatic tensions rise between Moscow and London

The Yaroslav Mudry had recently been operating in the Mediterranean Sea and Indian Ocean.

She then sailed across to the Caribbean to visit Cuba and Trinidad.

HMS Sutherland and a Merlin helicopter joined French and Dutch warships in following the Yaroslav Mudry.

Her progress will be monitored by ships from other Nato nations as she passes through northern European waters.

Commander Trish Kohn, Commanding Officer of HMS Sutherland, said: ‘This is just one example of the many activities undertaken by the Royal Navy in safeguarding the United Kingdom’s waters.’

Previously: On December 3 the Vice Admiral Kulakov (rear) was met at the edge of the Channel by HMS Sutherland (front)

Commander Kohn added: ‘My crew have been very busy this year, with the ship spending over 200 days at a high state of readiness in order to be prepared for a wide range of activities.

‘While most people are preparing to enjoy time at home with families and loved ones, there will be a Royal Navy warship on duty over the Christmas period, as there is at all times throughout the year, ready to respond.’

Plymouth-based HMS Sutherland, which carries 180 sailors, is also a highly sophisticated submarine hunter.

It has the latest towed array sonar to track submarines that may attempt to enter UK or allied waters undetected.

On December 3 the Vice Admiral Kulakov was met at the edge of the English Channel by HMS Sutherland.

In October Navy vessels monitored Russian ships including the smoke-belching Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier (file)

Royal Navy sailors on the ship based at Devonport watched the Udaloy class destroyer through binoculars.

They had been deployed in the early hours and used radar to track the Russian ship’s course and speed.

The Kulakov had been in the Eastern Mediterranean and was on her return journey, escorted by other Nato ships.

HMS Sutherland has been tasked, along with her Nato colleagues, with patrolling UK seas since the summer.

In October Navy vessels monitored Russian ships including the smoke-belching Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier.