Trevor Noah: One thing Donald Trump is honest about is his lies
Trevor Noah: One thing Donald Trump is honest about is his lies
Popular videos    Marquez fueled by his desire to win 'every Sunday, every year'      Michelle Obama gives stark summary of national mood      Lawyer advising rebel Electoral College voters says they won't win      There's more propaganda than news coming out of Aleppo   Just to make the aftermath of the 2016 US election even more chaotic, Donald Trump is now throwing everyone off by being honest about his lying. Politicians lived up to their reputation of being slippery creatures this year. Key figures from Republican and Democratic camps became experts at blurring the line between truth and fiction. The pivot was the politician’s ultimate weapon of choice, allowing them to deflect difficult questions by giving an answer pertaining to something completely unrelated. Just look at Hillary Clinton sketch for a satirical but highly accurate impression of how this was so artfully done. Then there were those who stretched, distorted or misrepresented the truth to suit their agenda. When it’s campaign season, all bets are off. Extracting the truth from political hyperbole was a difficult task and one that helped fake news thrive . World reaction to President Trump: In pictures               World reaction to President Trump: In pictures       London, England   AP        London, England   Reuters        Manila, Philippines   Getty Images        Manila, Philippines   Getty        Mosul , Iraq   Getty        Manila, Philippines   AP        New Delhi, India   Reuters        Karachi, Pakistan   EPA        Jakarta, Indonesia   Reuters        Lagos, Nigeria   AP        Kabul, Afghanistan   AP        Jerusalem. Israel   Reuters        Moscow, Russia   Reuters        Seoul, South Korea   AP        Lagos, Nigeria   AP        Peshawar, Pakistan   EPA        Jakarta, Indonesia   Reuters        Hyderabad, India   AP        Kolkata, India   AP        Sydney, Australia   Getty        Sydney, Australia   AP        Aleppo, Syria   Reuters        Mexico City, Mexico   AP        Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago   Reuters        Jerusalem, Israel   EPA        Baghdad, Iraq   Rex        Gaza Strip, Palestinian Territories   Rex        Tokyo, Japan   Rex        Mexico City, Mexico   Getty  Now campaign season is over in the US, its victor appears to have accidentally swallowed truth serum. On Wednesday, Trevor Noah highlighted Mr Trump's unremorseful approach to remarks he made before winning the election with a video of the President-elect telling a rally in Pennsylvania that he is full of praise for Paul Ryan - providing he never goes against him. “What we're seeing here is a character I like to call Truth Trump,” host said. “You'll notice it if you watch him closely: The Donald voices some political opinion, and then Truth Trump slips out and tells you the real deal.”   Donald Trump supporters still chanting ‘lock her up' at rallies A number of Mr Trump’s pledges unleashed unprecedented aggression against Ms Clinton, especially his promise to “lock her up”. It was also a pledge he backtracked on almost immediately after beating her, telling a Michigan rally chanting “lock her up”: “That plays great before the election. Now, we don’t care, right?” Mr Trump made similarly cavalier comments at a rally in West Virginia in June. After months of branding the Primary voting process a "rigged, disgusting dirty system", he told the crowd: “You’ve been hearing me say it’s a rigged system but now I don’t say it anymore because I won. You know, now I don’t care.” “You see?,” an incredulous Noah continued. “It throws everyone off. Because politicians aren’t supposed to be honest with their lying. You don’t even get mad, you just get confused. You know what Trump is like? He’s like a magician telling everyone how he did the trick. And still, some people are like, ‘Wow, magic. It’s magic! Oooh.’” Mr Trump addressed the origin of his “drain the swamp” chants even more brazenly. “Funny how that term caught on, isn’t it? I told everyone - ‘I hate it!’. I hated it. I said, ‘oh, that’s so hokey, that’s so terrible.’ I said, ‘all right, I’ll try it.’ So like a month ago, I said ‘drain the swamp.’ Place went crazy. I said ‘woah’. Then I said it again. Then I started saying it like I meant it, right?” Mr Trump is in good company. In December, a political fact checker found Ben Carson, his one-time Republican opponent and newly appointed secretary of housing and urban development, made headline-making statements that were mostly false or untrue up to 84 per cent of the time, while Mr Trump was shortly behind him at 76 per cent. Democrats were not innocent either; Ms Clinton and Bernie Sanders had, by that point, delivered noteworthy statements that were 28 per cent mostly false, or worse. The exaggerated or false claims disseminated by candidates can hold great sway on the outcomes of an election or referendum, as 2016 demonstrated. More about: Donald Trump Trevor Noah Comments

Just to make the aftermath of the 2016 US election even more chaotic, Donald Trump is now throwing everyone off by being honest about his lying.

Politicians lived up to their reputation of being slippery creatures this year. Key figures from Republican and Democratic camps became experts at blurring the line between truth and fiction.

The pivot was the politician’s ultimate weapon of choice, allowing them to deflect difficult questions by giving an answer pertaining to something completely unrelated. Just look at Saturday Night Live’s Hillary Clinton sketch for a satirical but highly accurate impression of how this was so artfully done.

Then there were those who stretched, distorted or misrepresented the truth to suit their agenda. When it’s campaign season, all bets are off. Extracting the truth from political hyperbole was a difficult task and one that helped fake news thrive.

World reaction to President Trump: In pictures







29 show all World reaction to President Trump: In pictures























































1/29 London, England AP

2/29 London, England Reuters

3/29 Manila, Philippines Getty Images

4/29 Manila, Philippines Getty

5/29 Mosul , Iraq Getty

6/29 Manila, Philippines AP

7/29 New Delhi, India Reuters

8/29 Karachi, Pakistan EPA

9/29 Jakarta, Indonesia Reuters

10/29 Lagos, Nigeria AP

11/29 Kabul, Afghanistan AP

12/29 Jerusalem. Israel Reuters

13/29 Moscow, Russia Reuters

14/29 Seoul, South Korea AP

15/29 Lagos, Nigeria AP

16/29 Peshawar, Pakistan EPA

17/29 Jakarta, Indonesia Reuters

18/29 Hyderabad, India AP

19/29 Kolkata, India AP

20/29 Sydney, Australia Getty

21/29 Sydney, Australia AP

22/29 Aleppo, Syria Reuters

23/29 Mexico City, Mexico AP

24/29 Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago Reuters

25/29 Jerusalem, Israel EPA

26/29 Baghdad, Iraq Rex

27/29 Gaza Strip, Palestinian Territories Rex

28/29 Tokyo, Japan Rex

29/29 Mexico City, Mexico Getty

Now campaign season is over in the US, its victor appears to have accidentally swallowed truth serum.

On Wednesday, Trevor Noah highlighted Mr Trump's unremorseful approach to remarks he made before winning the election with a video of the President-elect telling a rally in Pennsylvania that he is full of praise for Paul Ryan - providing he never goes against him.

Truth Trump

“What we're seeing here is a character I like to call Truth Trump,” The Daily Show host said. “You'll notice it if you watch him closely: The Donald voices some political opinion, and then Truth Trump slips out and tells you the real deal.”

Lock her up

A number of Mr Trump’s pledges unleashed unprecedented aggression against Ms Clinton, especially his promise to “lock her up”. It was also a pledge he backtracked on almost immediately after beating her, telling a Michigan rally chanting “lock her up”: “That plays great before the election. Now, we don’t care, right?”

Rigged system

Mr Trump made similarly cavalier comments at a rally in West Virginia in June. After months of branding the Primary voting process a "rigged, disgusting dirty system", he told the crowd: “You’ve been hearing me say it’s a rigged system but now I don’t say it anymore because I won. You know, now I don’t care.”

“You see?,” an incredulous Noah continued. “It throws everyone off. Because politicians aren’t supposed to be honest with their lying. You don’t even get mad, you just get confused. You know what Trump is like? He’s like a magician telling everyone how he did the trick. And still, some people are like, ‘Wow, magic. It’s magic! Oooh.’”



Drain the swamp

Mr Trump addressed the origin of his “drain the swamp” chants even more brazenly. “Funny how that term caught on, isn’t it? I told everyone - ‘I hate it!’. I hated it. I said, ‘oh, that’s so hokey, that’s so terrible.’ I said, ‘all right, I’ll try it.’ So like a month ago, I said ‘drain the swamp.’ Place went crazy. I said ‘woah’. Then I said it again. Then I started saying it like I meant it, right?”

Mr Trump is in good company. In December, a political fact checker found Ben Carson, his one-time Republican opponent and newly appointed secretary of housing and urban development, made headline-making statements that were mostly false or untrue up to 84 per cent of the time, while Mr Trump was shortly behind him at 76 per cent. Democrats were not innocent either; Ms Clinton and Bernie Sanders had, by that point, delivered noteworthy statements that were 28 per cent mostly false, or worse.

The exaggerated or false claims disseminated by candidates can hold great sway on the outcomes of an election or referendum, as 2016 demonstrated.