From IT specialist to guerilla fighter: Estonia's citizen army gears up to deter Vladimir Putin's war machine



From IT specialist to guerilla fighter: Estonia's citizen army gears up to deter Vladimir Putin's war machine

Updated

In the northern part of Europe, the tiny nation of Estonia is training its citizens to grab guns and build roadside bombs as it eyes the potential threat from Vladimir Putin's Russia.

While Australians are baking in the summer sun, across the world, Estonians are being sent out to sleep in the snow, without sleeping bags — in temperatures as low as -20 degrees Celsius.

Equipped with a "survival box" containing gadgets to catch fish, birds and animals rather than canned tuna and a Snickers bar, members of a voluntary military organisation — the Estonian Defence League (EDL) — are practicing yet another war scenario.

It is giant eastern neighbour Russia — population 143 million — that has startled the least populous European Union member state, with a population of merely 1.3 million.

Estonia shares a tumultuous history with Russia.

The country was a battleground between Russia and Germany during World War I, and was formally annexed into the Soviet Union in 1940 as part of a short-lived pact between Adolf Hitler and Soviet dictator Josef Stalin.

Under Stalin's rule many Estonians were forcibly deported to Siberia, and the country only regained its independence in 1991 during the break-up of the Soviet Union.

But old fears are rearing their heads again, as Estonians eye Russia's annexation of Crimea and United States President-elect Donald Trump's comments about reining in NATO spending, which provided a bulwark against Russian expansion during and after the Cold War.

Now thousands of Estonians, many without previous military experience, have flocked towards the EDL for specialised conflict training.

They learn to fire weapons, recognise Russian armoured vehicles, and live in the country's vast forests.

Some of the more experienced recruits are given instructions on how to make roadside bombs. Others learn how to run a field kitchen capable of feeding thousands of people.

The EDL chief, Commander Meelis Kiili, puts it simply — "if you want peace prepare for war".

'We built a sauna using a Coke bottle'

Tarmo Pihlik's daily job sees him working as an IT specialist for the Government. In his downtime, he builds impromptu saunas as part of the EDL training.

"We were sleeping in an abandoned house and with what we had, we built a sauna, using a Coca-Cola bottle to make a shower," the 42-year-old says.

"With some timber laying around we built a sweating bench. We used plastic to cover the windows and the 'chimney' was pointed out of the window.

"We put some rocks on the fireplace and that was that — all in half a day's work. After not having washed for a couple of days it felt really good."

As EDL members polish their sauna construction skills, they know their tenacity can be tested on a frosty night in the snow or "walking a 100-kilometre route like it's nothing".

"It would be too late to start learning for it when the enemy is already knocking on the door," Tarmo says.

In preparation for any potential Russian aggression in neighbouring countries, in 2014 the US sent its troops to watch over the Baltic states.

Last year, the US Department of Defence reported that about 5,000 troops had rotated through Estonia since April 2014.

"For me it was crucial that the Americans brought their forces into Estonia," Tarmo says.

But he admits "the fear of Russia has gone nowhere ... and that most likely is one of the reasons people decide to join the EDL".

'Be afraid of other humans, not nature'

It took five years for mother-of-three Piret Valge to decide to join the EDL.

Being drawn to topography, medicine and cooking "soldier soup" for thousands, she committed to the Women's Voluntary Defence Organisation (WVDO) — an EDL branch.

"It's a bit of a 'softer' organisation. We don't necessarily have fights in the forest, preparing for war," she says.

But don't mistake the WVDO for an Estonian version of the Country Women's Association.

Men and women are all left to fend for themselves in the woods — an obvious strategy to avoid an invader in a heavily-forested country.

In autumn, Piret followed in the footsteps of the Forest Brothers — WWII partisans who dissolved into the woods, waging a guerrilla war against Soviet rule — and braved the night by sleeping on ferns in a bog.

"We didn't have shelter, we didn't have a bonfire. We had to put together a makeshift bed," she says.

"You just find some timber, preferably flat, then put something on for cushioning, either ferns or branches. Just anything you have on you to survive the night and keep warm."

Working in the environmental education sector, Piret knows "you mustn't be afraid of nature".

"Other humans — yes; but not nature," she says.

It is that philosophy that has kept her from sinking in the mud — quite literally.

"If you make even the smallest wrong move or sudden movement you can end up halfway down in the mud or lower," she says of her experience of successfully crossing the bog on foot.

Fearing for "the worst scenario — war", Piret is determined to get maximum training to protect her family, all the while inspiring her 14-year-old son, now a member of the EDL boys' unit Young Eagles, to do the same.

Russia's 'strategic lie'

Russia's increasingly aggressive foreign policy has made 25,507 EDL members warily turn their heads to ongoing hot spots.

"Volunteers are closely following the crisis situations around the world, and by staying in touch with the Ukrainians and Georgians for example, they are trying to embed their lessons learnt into their own training," Commander Eero Kinnunen, who provides EDL training, says.

"At times like these most people are trying to make sure that the 1940s won't happen again — that Estonia will not be given away without a bullet again. At least as far as the EDL volunteers are concerned."

Amid fears of a global security crisis, WVDO chairwoman Airi Tooming forecasts an increase in the influx of volunteers.

"There definitely are members [that fear where the global politics is headed], especially the ones that have recently joined. Their friends and family have also asked them what they should do or learn," she says.

"I suppose there is this collective push that's made people wonder [about what could happen]."

The biggest initiative to join? Estonian history and memories of previous occupations and wars — events that Commander Kiili says Russia denies.

"For example, Russia claims there has been no occupation. The biggest lie today is that while Russia is fighting in Ukraine with its forces, President [Putin] is telling its Western colleagues, with a blank look on his face, that no, they are not," he says.

"That is the biggest lie. It is. And it's a strategic lie."

Topics: defence-forces, world-politics, government-and-politics, defence-and-national-security, volunteers, community-and-society, history, estonia

First posted