The Roots To Tip Off NBA All-Star Game 2017
The Roots To Tip Off NBA All-Star Game 2017
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Roots To Tip Off NBA All-Star Game 2017  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In honor of the 66th NBA All-Star Game, The Roots will open up the show's festivities with a special performance at the Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, Louisiana, on Sunday, Feb. 19, 2017. Before the NBA All-Star East and West teams hit the floor, the prolific Grammy Award-winning group and official house band of NBC's will deliver a scintillating performance centered around the history of basketball. Their performance, alongside other events that will take place during NBA All-Star weekend 2017, will be part of the "Entertainment Series Presented by JBL," and wil be broadcasted in more than 200 countries and territories in more than 40 different languages. The halftime show will feature John Legend .  The Roots recently played an instrumental role in crafting , which went No. 1 on the Billboard 200 last week.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In honor of the 66th NBA All-Star Game, The Roots will open up the show's festivities with a special performance at the Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, Louisiana, on Sunday, Feb. 19, 2017.

Before the NBA All-Star East and West teams hit the floor, the prolific Grammy Award-winning group and official house band of NBC's The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon will deliver a scintillating performance centered around the history of basketball.

Their performance, alongside other events that will take place during NBA All-Star weekend 2017, will be part of the "Entertainment Series Presented by JBL," and wil be broadcasted in more than 200 countries and territories in more than 40 different languages. The halftime show will feature John Legend.

The Roots recently played an instrumental role in crafting The Hamilton Mixtape, which went No. 1 on the Billboard 200 last week.