Jauz Announces Off The Deep End Series for 2017: Exclusive
Jauz Announces Off The Deep End Series for 2017: Exclusive
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Jauz Announces Off The Deep End Series for 2017: Exclusive  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Jauz has had a remarkable 2016. From remixing The Chainsmokers , Passion Pit , and Porter Robinson , to high profile originals on Monstercat and Spinnin’ Records, he’s delivered some of the biggest tracks of the year. On the touring front, he’s taken his sound across the world, performing everywhere from Paris, to Bali and Brazil. In early 2017, however, Sam Vogel is officially returning home.  Billboard. “Off The Deep End will be a series dedicated to my most die-hard fans.”  here .   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

By all accounts, Jauz has had a remarkable 2016. From remixing The Chainsmokers, Passion Pit, and Porter Robinson, to high profile originals on Monstercat and Spinnin’ Records, he’s delivered some of the biggest tracks of the year. On the touring front, he’s taken his sound across the world, performing everywhere from Paris, to Bali and Brazil. In early 2017, however, Sam Vogel is officially returning home.

Jauz has announced a brand new North American series run titled ‘Off The Deep End.’ As opposed to past headlining ventures -- like his sold-out Friendzy tour from early 2016 -- Off The Deep End is carefully crafted with fans in mind, focusing on fewer dates and bigger venues.

“I have been all around the world this year, but starting in 2017, I really wanted to bring it home,” Jauz tells Billboard. “Off The Deep End will be a series dedicated to my most die-hard fans.”

The first stop of the series will be in Seattle, followed by Jauz’s hometown show at the legendary Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, featuring Slushii, Ghastly, and special guests E-40 and Too $hort. With the sheer star power behind the first date, one can expect a similarly heavy roster of support to be announced for Vogel’s subsequent stops in Los Angeles, Denver, Las Vegas, New York and more.

More than just a show run, the series signals the maturation of Jauz’s brand from a burgeoning bass act into a veritable tastemaker within the scene. With a slew of well-curated guests and performances that will push Jauz’s sound deeper than ever before, Off The Deep End marks the next logical step in Sam Vogel’s ongoing evolution.

Check out the full Off The Deep End dates below. Tickets are available here.