Jewel Thief Doris Payne, 86, Promises Not to Skip Bail
Doris Payne, 86-year-old jewel thief, promises not to skip bail
A judge set bond at $15,000 for international jewel thief Doris Payne after the 86-year-old promised that she wouldn't disappear. "I've never been late for a court date," the sticky-fingered senior citizen said Friday in her first appearance since she was charged with stealing a $2,000 diamond necklace from an Atlanta-area jewel store. By late afternoon, Payne had not posted bond and was still in custody. A friend, Sonjia Williams, told NBC News she hoped to arrange for her release soon. During a brief court appearance, Payne objected when a prosecutor reeled off a series of past convictions, saying some of them were duplicates. "I'm not denying that I have a history," Payne said. "I do."   In previous interviews, Payne has said she's been arrested more than 20 times in a globe-trotting career that inspired a 2013 documentary. She's still facing charges in a neighboring Georgia county, stemming from the alleged theft of $690 Christian Dior earrings from a Saks Fifth Avenue outlet. She served two years in prison for a 2010 ring theft at a Macy's in San Diego. The judge in the case compared her to the Terminator, who always comes back. "She's an adventure-seeker and she gets bored easily and she loves the attention," Matthew Pond, co-director of "The Life and Crimes of Doris Payne," told NBC News. "She likes playing the part and getting into the role. She's a bit of an actress." While she's lived abroad and once bragged about a $500,000 heist in Monte Carlo, Payne's wings have been clipped. She told the judge Friday that she doesn't have a passport because of her felony record.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Notorious Jewel Thief Speaks at Bond Hearing 2:24 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

A judge set bond at $15,000 for international jewel thief Doris Payne after the 86-year-old promised that she wouldn't disappear.

"I've never been late for a court date," the sticky-fingered senior citizen said Friday in her first appearance since she was charged with stealing a $2,000 diamond necklace from an Atlanta-area jewel store.

By late afternoon, Payne had not posted bond and was still in custody. A friend, Sonjia Williams, told NBC News she hoped to arrange for her release soon.

During a brief court appearance, Payne objected when a prosecutor reeled off a series of past convictions, saying some of them were duplicates.

"I'm not denying that I have a history," Payne said. "I do."

Related: Infamous Jewel Thief Doris Payne, 86, Arrested Again

In previous interviews, Payne has said she's been arrested more than 20 times in a globe-trotting career that inspired a 2013 documentary.

She's still facing charges in a neighboring Georgia county, stemming from the alleged theft of $690 Christian Dior earrings from a Saks Fifth Avenue outlet.

She served two years in prison for a 2010 ring theft at a Macy's in San Diego. The judge in the case compared her to the Terminator, who always comes back.

"She's an adventure-seeker and she gets bored easily and she loves the attention," Matthew Pond, co-director of "The Life and Crimes of Doris Payne," told NBC News.

"She likes playing the part and getting into the role. She's a bit of an actress."

While she's lived abroad and once bragged about a $500,000 heist in Monte Carlo, Payne's wings have been clipped. She told the judge Friday that she doesn't have a passport because of her felony record.