Only A True Millennial Can Pass This Spelling Test
Only A True Millennial Can Pass This Spelling Test
Used in a sentence: “I cannot afford a bed frame, so I’m making up for it with this artisanal coat rack.”               Used in a sentence: “Behold my debt, for it is interminable and abundant.”               Used in a sentence: “My family loves to call me entitled while asking me to set up their email accounts for them.”               Used in a sentence: “This breakfast toast would be so much better with avocado.”               Used in a sentence: “My first master’s degree was a flop, but my second one landed me an unpaid internship.”               Used in a sentence: “I told this girl on Tinder my favorite shonen-ai ships, so she ghosted me.”               Used in a sentence: “I’m streaming and eating a hot dog in bed.”               Used in a sentence: “I can’t wait until my student loans are paid off so I can acquire those car and house loans my parents keep hyping up.”               Used in a sentence: “Caffeine in my coffee is what keeps me alive!”               Used in a sentence: “Seltzer is a fancy water that makes me forget I’m drowning in burdens of adulthood.”               Used in a sentence: “Here is a breakfast that I did not painstakingly arrange for this photo, hashtag #nofilter.”               Used in a sentence: “I don’t venture outside too often, since the lighting isn’t optimal for selfies.”               Used in a sentence: “I mix fruit into my quinoa at pot lucks to trick people into thinking I have my life together.”               Used in a sentence: “I am a flaming dumpster fire of a human being.”               Used in a sentence: “I am low key obsessed with sauces.”               Used in a sentence: “These unwashed pair of jeans and dusty Dorito fingers are my aesthetic.”               Used in a sentence: “A millennial is not who I AM, you cannot limit me to just one term, I am an INDIVIDUAL.”  Only A True Millennial Can Pass This Spelling Test  Psh, you’re not a millennial  You’re not an entitled, underemployed millennial. You might not be able to spell, but you’re so much better. Boo millennials!    You might be a millennial  You might have been born at the right time, but to truly embody the spirit of millennials, you must learn to spell quinoa and avocado. How else will you hashtag your brunches?    You’re a true millennial  You’re cool, you’re hip, AND you can spell? Those baby boomers are totally underestimating you. Congrats, millennial!   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   There Are So Many Celebs In The "All I Want For Christmas"...    Can You Get 20/20 On This Insanely Difficult Dog Quiz?...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.