The 'Rainbow People' who meet around the world for meditations and naked gatherings
The 'Rainbow People' who meet around the world for NAKED gatherings


Fascinating pictures give a unique insight into what happens when hundreds of people shed their clothes and show each other unconditional love at festivals around the world.

Photographer Denis Vejas has travelled to Rainbow Gatherings in Mexico, Guatemala, Morocco and Russia.

The annual festivals are attended by loosely-knit communities, who gather in forests and remote places to be at one with nature and promote a life free of consumerism.

A couple enjoy an intimate moment at a Rainbow Gathering, where hundreds of attendees gather to be at one with nature

People gathered at a Rainbow Gathering, where they relax in a river as they celebrate unconditional love and freedom

A young woman covered in mud at a Rainbow Gathering event, which promote freedom and unconditional love

A moment of solace for a woman at one of the gatherings, which have been photographed by Denis Vejas

Among the images are scenes of naked attendees relaxing in rivers and on banks, while others show them as they decorate their faces, meditate and smoke drugs.

The 30-year-old Lithuanian photographer said: 'Nomadic and alternative lifestyle is a big part of my photography and rainbow gatherings are a big part of nomadic culture and I felt I needed to document it.

'Unconditional love is a beautiful social experiment, especially when it is practiced by hundreds of people at the same time.

Denis said: 'It’s an attempt to build a different world without authorities and organisations where you can be absolutely free without the need to explain'

Participants at the free-to-attend festivals take part in a range of activities including meditation, dancing, yoga and playing music

People meditating on a beach at a Rainbow Gathering festival, where photographer Denis Vejas has captured a series of stunning images

'It’s an attempt to build a different world without authorities and organisations where you can be absolutely free without the need to explain.

'Gatherings attract same-minded people, so there is no one to shock.

'They happen in different parts of the world and usually in the outskirts of the countryside so the only contact with the outside world is some random small local village.

He said: 'They happen in different parts of the world and usually in the outskirts of the countryside so the only contact with the outside world is some random small local village'

Close-knit communities at the festivals gather in forests and remote places to be at one with nature and promote a life free of consumerism

Attendees are seen holding hands in a circle one of the festivals, which are held annually to promote unconditional love and peace

'In most of the cases, rainbow people sustain a very friendly relationship with the neighbours and locals often come to play music by the bonfire or eat together.'

The first Rainbow Gathering took place in 1972 in Colorado, and similar events are now held all over the world.

Participants at the free-to-attend festivals take part in a range of activities including meditation, dancing, yoga and playing music.

Denis said: 'I love honest and uncensored photography. I am attracted to communities that are born on the edges of global culture.'

The series of photos were taken at Rainbow Gatherings in Mexico, Guatemala, Morocco and Russia

Hundreds of people head to the gatherings, which have become worldwide events since the first was held in Colorado in 1972

An intimate moment between two people at one of the festivals, where attendees cut contact with the outside world