How cartoonists take a skewed view of Trump, Putin and the election-hack headlines

Mother Russia and President-elect Donald Trump are siring a healthy brood of cartoon metaphors in recent days. There is, of course, the common image of Putin and America’s next commander-in-chief as political bedfellows — a geopolitical bromance enhanced in cartoons by the Cabinet nomination of oilman-turned-potential diplomat Rex Tillerson. Also ever-present in editorial artwork are such Russian symbols as the bear, the hammer and sickle, and those increasingly diminutive nesting dolls. Throw the recent CIA headlines concerning Russia into the mix, and political cartoonists — both behind America’s future wall and far beyond — are having a satiric field day. Here’s a sampling of what editorial artists are hammering on, and how, in this news cycle:       See how satirists are poking fun at Time’s Trump ‘Person of the Year’ cover

TOGETHER, Mother Russia and President-elect Donald Trump are siring a healthy brood of cartoon metaphors in recent days.

There is, of course, the common image of Putin and America’s next commander-in-chief as political bedfellows — a geopolitical bromance enhanced in cartoons by the Cabinet nomination of oilman-turned-potential diplomat Rex Tillerson.

Also ever-present in editorial artwork are such Russian symbols as the bear, the hammer and sickle, and those increasingly diminutive nesting dolls.

Throw the recent CIA headlines concerning Russia into the mix, and political cartoonists — both behind America’s future wall and far beyond — are having a satiric field day.

Here’s a sampling of what editorial artists are hammering on, and how, in this news cycle:

NICK ANDERSON (Houston Chronicle):



by Nick Anderson / Houston Chronicle & Hearst Papers (WPWG) 2016

MARIAN KAMENSKY (Slovakia):

by Marian Kamensky / Slovakia (CagleCartoons.com) 2016

PATRICK CHAPPATTE (International New York Times):

by Patrick Chappatte / International New York Times (courtesy of CagleCartoons.com) 2016

SIGNE WILKINSON (Philly.com):



by Signe Wilkinson / Philly.com (WPWG) 2016

R.J. MATSON (CQ Roll Call):

by R.J. Matson / CQ Roll Call (CagleCartoons.com) 2016

STEVE SACK (Minneapolis Star Tribune):

by Steve Sack / Minneapolis Star Tribune (CagleCartoons.com) 2016

Read more:

See how satirists are poking fun at Time’s Trump ‘Person of the Year’ cover