Julia Roberts signs onto first-ever TV series
Julia Roberts signs onto first-ever TV series
US actress Julia Roberts attends the “Money Monster” premiere during the 69th annual Cannes Film Festival at the Palais des Festivals on May 12, 2016 in Cannes, France.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Julia Roberts is about to be a small screen star for the first time. The actress has signed on to star in a limited series, based on the best-selling book “Today Will Be Different” by Maria Semple, reports Variety . Semple will also be on hand to write the TV adaption of the book. Julia Roberts drops "F-bomb" while speaking at "Broadway for Hillary" Actress Julia Roberts didn't censor herself during the "Broadway for Hillary" event, while trying to encourage people to go out and vote. See her... The series does not have a network yet, and sources told Variety it will be shopped in early 2017. Roberts will also serve as an executive producer. Though she starred in the HBO movie “The Normal Heart,” the actress has not had any regular roles on TV series. The show is about a day in the life of protagonist Eleanor Flood, who tries to get through several errands in a day but gets thwarted by several obstacles, including a former colleague writing a scandalous memoir. “I’m giddy that Eleanor Flood will be brought to life by Julia Roberts and am elated to collaborate with Megan Ellison, Sue Naegle, and the team at Annapurna on this endeavor. This will be a fun ride!” Semple said in a statement.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Andrea is an entertainment producer at CBSNews.com

Julia Roberts is about to be a small screen star for the first time.

The actress has signed on to star in a limited series, based on the best-selling book “Today Will Be Different” by Maria Semple, reports Variety. Semple will also be on hand to write the TV adaption of the book.

The series does not have a network yet, and sources told Variety it will be shopped in early 2017.

Roberts will also serve as an executive producer. Though she starred in the HBO movie “The Normal Heart,” the actress has not had any regular roles on TV series.

The show is about a day in the life of protagonist Eleanor Flood, who tries to get through several errands in a day but gets thwarted by several obstacles, including a former colleague writing a scandalous memoir.

“I’m giddy that Eleanor Flood will be brought to life by Julia Roberts and am elated to collaborate with Megan Ellison, Sue Naegle, and the team at Annapurna on this endeavor. This will be a fun ride!” Semple said in a statement.