2 Chainz Is Selling the World's Most Expensive Ugly Christmas Sweater
2 Chainz Is Selling the World's Most Expensive Ugly Christmas Sweater
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks 2 Chainz Is Selling the World's Most Expensive Ugly Christmas Sweater  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  2 Chainz has officially expanded his brand -- into ugly Christmas sweaters. The rapper has officially listed the world's most expensive ugly Christmas sweater, retailing at $90,000. The sweater, designed by 2 Chainz himself and handcrafted by Avianne, includes 50 carats of diamonds and 250 grams of gold and is currently the only one made. Proceeds from the sweater will go to charity. If this sweater sounds like something you would like to graciously gift to someone this holiday season, you can purchase the sweater here .  Several other rappers have also spread holiday joy in creating uniquely designed Christmas sweaters. Nas is also listing "Kneeling Santa" holiday sweaters for charity, Run the Jewels has released a sweater with the duo's faces on it, and Ghostface Killah listed a sweater with his signature hockey mask and Wu-Tang Clan "W."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

2 Chainz has officially expanded his brand -- into ugly Christmas sweaters. The rapper has officially listed the world's most expensive ugly Christmas sweater, retailing at $90,000.

The sweater, designed by 2 Chainz himself and handcrafted by Avianne, includes 50 carats of diamonds and 250 grams of gold and is currently the only one made. Proceeds from the sweater will go to charity. If this sweater sounds like something you would like to graciously gift to someone this holiday season, you can purchase the sweater here.

Several other rappers have also spread holiday joy in creating uniquely designed Christmas sweaters. Nas is also listing "Kneeling Santa" holiday sweaters for charity, Run the Jewels has released a sweater with the duo's faces on it, and Ghostface Killah listed a sweater with his signature hockey mask and Wu-Tang Clan "W."