Scott Baio says Chili Peppers' drummer Chad Smith's wife assaulted him
Scott Baio says Chili Peppers' drummer Chad Smith's wife assaulted him
Scott Baio speaks on the first day of the RNC on July 18, 2016 in Cleveland. During his speech, the former “Happy Days” star said, “Our country is in a very bad spot; you can feel it.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Scott Baio’s wife is speaking out following a report that the actor claimed he was assaulted by the wife of Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith over his support of President-elect Donald Trump. Actor Scott Baio addressed Republican National Convention "Happy Days" actor Scott Baio said "We need Donald Trump to fix this" while speaking about the U.S. at the RNC Monday. See his full remarks. TMZ reported Thursday that Baio filed a police report over the Saturday incident in Thousand Oaks, California, and the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office is investigating. TMZ says Baio told law enforcement that Nancy Mack confronted him at an event he was attending with his daughter. The report says Baio told investigators that Mack attacked him by grabbing him under his arms and shaking and pushing him. Renee Baio repeated those claims on Twitter and also posted a picture of Mack taken from video she says she has of the incident. Scott Baio also shared his wife’s tweets. Mack didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

LOS ANGELES — Scott Baio’s wife is speaking out following a report that the actor claimed he was assaulted by the wife of Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith over his support of President-elect Donald Trump.

TMZ reported Thursday that Baio filed a police report over the Saturday incident in Thousand Oaks, California, and the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office is investigating. TMZ says Baio told law enforcement that Nancy Mack confronted him at an event he was attending with his daughter. The report says Baio told investigators that Mack attacked him by grabbing him under his arms and shaking and pushing him.

Renee Baio repeated those claims on Twitter and also posted a picture of Mack taken from video she says she has of the incident. Scott Baio also shared his wife’s tweets.

Mack didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.