Sumner Redstone Leaving Viacom Board After February Meeting
Sumner Redstone Leaving Viacom Board After February Meeting
Shares                Sumner Redstone is leaving the board of the movie and TV company he controls, Viacom, after its February meeting. The 93-year-old took over Viacom in 1987 but stepped down as executive chairman in February in the middle of a courtroom battle over his health and mental capacity. Viacom said Friday that Redstone will keep his chairman emeritus title and can still attend board meetings, but won't have a vote. The New York company owns the Paramount Pictures movie studio and networks including MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central and BET. Redstone also controls broadcaster CBS, and his controlling company, National Amusements, on Monday said that it's abandoning its proposal to combine the two companies, 10 years after they split. Redstone stepped down as executive chairman of CBS in February but remains on its board. Redstone has all but disappeared from active management of the two companies, and Viacom's leadership has been in upheaval in the past few years over questions of Redstone's health as viewers of its cable networks decline and Paramount has struggled to produce hits. Longtime CEO Phillipe Dauman was pushed out earlier this year following a legal battle with Redstone's daughter, Shari Redstone. A Viacom executive, Tom Dooley, replaced him on an interim basis and another Viacom executive, Robert Bakish, took over in November. Viacom on Monday named Bakish its permanent CEO. Redstone had also been embroiled in a legal fight with his ex-girlfriend and former caregiver Manuela Herzer over his health and mental capacity. He sued her and another former companion, Sydney Holland, for elder abuse in October. Viacom Inc. Class B shares rose 93 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $35.84 in afternoon trading Friday. Its shares are down almost 13 percent over the past year. Shares                  Sumner Redstone Leaving Viacom Board After February Meeting   Obama Vows Retaliation as Evidence of Russian Hacking Mounts   Syrians Can't 'Slaughter Their Way to Legitimacy': Obama   Orphaned Children Remain Trapped in Aleppo After Evacuations Suspended   Obama Says Clinton Was Not 'Treated Fairly' During Election   Official: FBI Backs CIA Conclusion on Russian Hacking Motive   N. Carolina GOP Strips Some of Democratic Governor's Power   'Pizzagate' Shooting Suspect Pleads Not Guilty   Trump Moves to Cancel Deals in Azerbaijan, Georgia   'Rogue One:' Riz Ahmed on 'Star Wars' and Rap Battles   'Rogue One's' Diego Luna on Why 'Dark Side Is Very Sexy'   Glitch in Christmas Tree Lights Sets Fire That Kills Couple   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Big Storm Hits California, Chopper Saves Homeless and Dogs   Bergdahl Judge Won't Allow Evidence of Injuries to Soldiers   15% of Texas Town Cleared to Use Tap Water After Chemical Spill   Football Team Refuses to Play Until Teammates Reinstated   Michelle Obama: 'Now We Are Feeling What Not Having Hope Feels Like'   Everything You Need to Know About the Inauguration   'Frozen' Star Has Cold Words About Trump's Inauguration   Burning Questions About 'Rogue One' Answered   'Rogue One' Composer on Facing Down Nerves About 'Star Wars' Gig   Michael Jackson's Son Prince Explains How His Father Influenced Him   Drug Overdose Deaths Rise Significantly in Past 5 Years   Grand Juror in JonBenet Ramsey Case Speaks Out   Shannen Doherty Shares Insight Into Radiation Treatments   This Ugly Christmas Sweater Costs $30K

Sumner Redstone is leaving the board of the movie and TV company he controls, Viacom, after its February meeting.

The 93-year-old took over Viacom in 1987 but stepped down as executive chairman in February in the middle of a courtroom battle over his health and mental capacity. Viacom said Friday that Redstone will keep his chairman emeritus title and can still attend board meetings, but won't have a vote.

The New York company owns the Paramount Pictures movie studio and networks including MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central and BET. Redstone also controls broadcaster CBS, and his controlling company, National Amusements, on Monday said that it's abandoning its proposal to combine the two companies, 10 years after they split. Redstone stepped down as executive chairman of CBS in February but remains on its board.

Redstone has all but disappeared from active management of the two companies, and Viacom's leadership has been in upheaval in the past few years over questions of Redstone's health as viewers of its cable networks decline and Paramount has struggled to produce hits.

Longtime CEO Phillipe Dauman was pushed out earlier this year following a legal battle with Redstone's daughter, Shari Redstone. A Viacom executive, Tom Dooley, replaced him on an interim basis and another Viacom executive, Robert Bakish, took over in November. Viacom on Monday named Bakish its permanent CEO.

Redstone had also been embroiled in a legal fight with his ex-girlfriend and former caregiver Manuela Herzer over his health and mental capacity. He sued her and another former companion, Sydney Holland, for elder abuse in October.

Viacom Inc. Class B shares rose 93 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $35.84 in afternoon trading Friday. Its shares are down almost 13 percent over the past year.