Scientists discover six new species of marine animals hiding beneath the Indian Ocean
Scientists discover 6 new bizzare creatures beneath the Indian Ocean


Researchers found a new species of 'Hoff' crab, two snails, a limpet and two new species of worm

took place in 2011 and used a remote controlled underwater vehicle to comb the sea floor

Hairy-chested crabs and monstrous slugs are among the six new species of marine animals found living near the hydrothermal vents beneath the Indian Ocean.

Researchers stumbled upon this underwater treasure trove while surveying an area the size of a football stadium on the sea floor – 1.7 miles below the surface.

Using remotely operated vehicles, the team found a new species of 'Hoff' crab, two new snails, a previously unknown limpet and two new species of worm.

Hairy-chested crabs (pictured) and monstrous slugs are among the six new species of marine animals found living near the hydrothermal vents beneath the Indian Ocean. Researchers stumbled upon this underwater treasure trove while surveying an area the size of a football stadium on the sea floor – 1.7 miles below the surface

SIX NEW SPECIES Researchers six new species while surveying an area the size of a football stadium on the floor of the Indian Ocean. The site is near the hydrothermal vents, which is 1,243 miles southeast of Madagascar and is known as the Lonqui vents, or 'Dragon Breath'. The deep-sea animals that are so far only known from Longqi include: a species of hairy-chested 'Hoff' crab; two species of snail, Chiridota and Neolepas, and a species of limpet, named Bathymodiolus marisindicus; a species of scaleworm called Peinaleopolynoe; and another species of deep-sea worm, named Hesiolyra.

'We can be certain that the new species we've found also live elsewhere in the southwest Indian Ocean, as they will have migrated here from other sites, but at the moment no-one really knows where, or how well-connected their populations are with those at Longqi,' said Dr Copley, the head of the research team at the University of Southampton.

'Our results highlight the need to explore other hydrothermal vents in the southwest Indian Ocean and investigate the connectivity of their populations, before any impacts from mineral exploration activities and future deep-sea mining can be assessed.'

The hydrothermal vents sit 1,243 miles southeast of Madagascar and is known as the Lonqui vents, or 'Dragon Breath'.

For a majority of these species, this is the first time they have been seen by humans and researchers believe these creates only thrive in the Longqi vents.

'Since the first investigations of hydrothermal vents in the eastern Pacific in the late 1970s, more than 250 active vent fields have been visually confirmed worldwide, and more than 400 new animal species have been described from vent environments across at least eleven biogeographic provinces,' reads the study published in the journal Scientific Reports.

The hydrothermal vents sit 1,243 miles southeast of Madagascar and is known as the Lonqui vents, or 'Dragon Breath'. For a majority of these species, this is the first time they have been seen by humans and researches believe these creates only thrive in the Longqi vents. Pictured is a new species of ragworm called Hesiolyra

In 2001, a group from the University of Southampton began exploring this area and navigated its underwater vehicle for 22 hours, combing the sea floor where they found a new species of scaleworm called Peinaleopolynoe

In 2001, a group from the University of Southampton began exploring this area and navigated its underwater vehicle for 22 hours, combing the sea floor.

The team was able to pinpoint more than a dozen mineral spires known as 'vent chimneys'.

These spires, many of which rise more than two storeys above the seabed, are rich in copper and gold that is now attracting interest for future seafloor mining.

Since the first investigations of hydrothermal vents in the eastern Pacific in the late 1970s, more than 250 active vent fields have been visually confirmed worldwide, and more than 400 new animal species have been described. Now, the team can add a new barnacle (pictured) called Neolepas to the list

However, these mineral chimneys held a few secrets of their own – they were adorned with other species and populations that are not yet recorded from anywhere else in the world's oceans.

The Longqi vents are the first known in the region and the expedition was the first to explore them using a deep-diving remotely operated vehicle (ROV).

The deep-sea animals that are so far only known from Longqi include: a species of hairy-chested 'Hoff' crab, closely related to 'Hoff' crabs at Antarctic vents; two species of snail and a species of limpet, named Bathymodiolus marisindicus; a species of scaleworm called Peinaleopolynoe; and another species of deep-sea worm, named Hesiolyra.

The deep-sea animals that are so far only known from Longqi include: a species of hairy-chested 'Hoff' crab, closely related to 'Hoff' crabs at Antarctic vents; two species of snail, ( picured is a Phymorhynchus) and a species of limpet, named Bathymodiolus marisindicus ; a scaleworm called Peinaleopolynoe; and another species of deep-sea worm, named Hesiolyra

The team was able to pinpoint more than a dozen mineral spires known as 'vent chimneys'. These spires, many of which rise more than two storeys above the seabed, are rich in copper and gold that is now attracting interest for future seafloor mining

Apart from one species of snail, which has been given the scientific name Gigantopelta aegis, most have not yet been formally described.

The scientists also found other species at Longqi that are known at other vents far away in other oceans.

Another new species of scaleworm lives at vents on the East Scotia Ridge in the Antarctic, 3,728 miles away, while a species of ragworm live at vents in the eastern Pacific, more than 6,213 miles away.