Listen to Zedd's Must-Hear Remix of DJ Snake & Justin Bieber's 'Let Me Love You'
Listen to Zedd's Must-Hear Remix of DJ Snake & Justin Bieber's 'Let Me Love You'
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Listen to Zedd's Must-Hear Remix of DJ Snake & Justin Bieber's 'Let Me Love You'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  If you follow Zedd on Snapchat, you know he's been cooking up a wild remix of DJ Snake 's “Let Me Love You” with Justin Bieber , and now that it's here, it has surpassed all expectations. It's a grand adventure onto itself, an exploration of sounds and styles as if the listener enters a different world every 30 seconds. One moment it sounds like a sped-up electro version of what we all know and love, and the next moment it turns into a militant march, then a video game soundtrack, sometimes some cinematic choirs for good measure. It's all over the place, and it's expertly done. If this is the kind of thing Zedd has in store for 2017, it could be his coolest year ever. Listen for yourself below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Zedd performs during the Outside Lands Music Festival 2016 in at Golden Gate Park on Aug. 6, 2016 in San Francisco.

If you follow Zedd on Snapchat, you know he's been cooking up a wild remix of DJ Snake's “Let Me Love You” with Justin Bieber, and now that it's here, it has surpassed all expectations.

It's a grand adventure onto itself, an exploration of sounds and styles as if the listener enters a different world every 30 seconds. One moment it sounds like a sped-up electro version of what we all know and love, and the next moment it turns into a militant march, then a video game soundtrack, sometimes some cinematic choirs for good measure. It's all over the place, and it's expertly done.

If this is the kind of thing Zedd has in store for 2017, it could be his coolest year ever. Listen for yourself below.