Is Selena Gomez Back in the Studio? See the New Pic That Has Fans (and Nick Jonas) Buzzing!
Is Selena Gomez Back in the Studio? See the New Pic That Has Fans (and Nick Jonas) Buzzing!
Get excited, Selena Gomez fans. It appears the 24-year-old superstar is making new music again! Songwriter Justin Tranter Instagrammed a picture of Gomez putting on eyeliner on Thursday, captioning the snap, "Music and love." Tranter worked extensively with Gomez on her album , penning hits "Hands to Myself" and "Love Myself." And Gomez already has one big fan in her corner. Several sites posted screengrabs of her pal Nick Jonas' comment on the post , showing his support with the praise hands emoji. The former Disney star and Jonas dated back in 2008. In August, Gomez announced she was taking "time off" from her career to deal with issues of depression and anxiety stemming from her battle with lupus. Earlier this month, she talked about her 90 days off while participating in Thrive Global's questionnaire. "During that time I did not have my cellphone," she shared. "It was the most refreshing, calming, rejuvenating feeling. Now I rarely pick up my phone, and only limited people have access to me." Gomez's first major public appearance since her break was at the 2016 American Music Awards, where she gave an emotional and inspiring speech. She also broke her social media silence to thank her fans for their support. "I have a lot to be thankful for this year. My year has been the hardest yet most rewarding one yet," she Instagrammed. "I've finally fought the fight of not 'being enough'. I have only wanted to reflect the love you guys have given me for years and show how important it is to take care of YOU." Watch below: Lady Gaga Shows Off Lacy Lingerie Elizabeth Hurley Flaunts Killer Abs at Age 51 Jennifer Lawrence Stuns in Sheer Skirt

Get excited, Selena Gomez fans. It appears the 24-year-old superstar is making new music again!

Songwriter Justin Tranter Instagrammed a picture of Gomez putting on eyeliner on Thursday, captioning the snap, "Music and love." Tranter worked extensively with Gomez on her album Revival, penning hits "Hands to Myself" and "Love Myself."

WATCH: Selena Gomez Steps Out in Pajamas Before Donning Sexy All-Black Ensemble at Catch LA

And Gomez already has one big fan in her corner. Several sites posted screengrabs of her pal Nick Jonas' comment on the post, showing his support with the praise hands emoji. The former Disney star and Jonas dated back in 2008.

In August, Gomez announced she was taking "time off" from her career to deal with issues of depression and anxiety stemming from her battle with lupus. Earlier this month, she talked about her 90 days off while participating in Thrive Global's questionnaire.

"During that time I did not have my cellphone," she shared. "It was the most refreshing, calming, rejuvenating feeling. Now I rarely pick up my phone, and only limited people have access to me."

WATCH: Selena Gomez Reveals What's Changed About Her Since Taking a Break

Gomez's first major public appearance since her break was at the 2016 American Music Awards, where she gave an emotional and inspiring speech. She also broke her social media silence to thank her fans for their support.

"I have a lot to be thankful for this year. My year has been the hardest yet most rewarding one yet," she Instagrammed. "I've finally fought the fight of not 'being enough'. I have only wanted to reflect the love you guys have given me for years and show how important it is to take care of YOU."

Watch below:

Related Articles