Watch killer whales chow down on a shark
Watch killer whales chow down on a shark
Tweet     Stumble     Email  On Tuesday, California photographer Slater Moore got on board the Sea Wolf II, a boat run by tour operator Monterey Bay Whale Watch , and headed out to look for whales . What he captured with his drone -mounted camera would fit right into an episode of “ Planet Earth II .” Offshore Killer Whales today!  Such an Awesome encounter!! We encountered these infrequently sighted Killer Whales on the 9am trip aboard the SeaWolf II. This ecotype of Killer Whales often travels in large groups and were seen about this time last December. We saw about 25 individuals and I was even able to get footage of them feeding on a Sevengill Shark with the drone! These whales are typically smaller in size than the Bigg's or transient Killer Whale type and they had several very young calves with them! So Lucky to get to see this!!!
Monterey Bay Whale Watch Not only did he witness a pod of 25 offshore orcas , he also caught them nibbling on a shark like it was an oversized fish stick. The footage starts off looking like a water ballet. There’s a pretty piano music soundtrack and the orcas ripple through their swimming moves. The video then takes a nature-is-metal turn to the wild side as the killer whales start munching on a shark. The unlucky predator-turned-prey is believed to be a sevengill shark , which can top 7 feet in length. Monterey Bay Whale Watch notes that this sort of food-sharing behavior is rarely caught on film. The adult whales may have been teaching their calves how to hunt, which lends the shark-eating event a bit of quality family-time flair. According to the Orca Network , an organization dedicated to raising awareness of whales in the Pacific Northwest, offshore killer whales are known to enjoy shark -sushi meals. Moore was understandably excited about his experience, writing, “So lucky to get to see this!!!”                Tweet     Stumble     Email

On Tuesday, California photographer Slater Moore got on board the Sea Wolf II, a boat run by tour operator Monterey Bay Whale Watch, and headed out to look for whales. What he captured with his drone-mounted camera would fit right into an episode of “Planet Earth II.”

Off Shore Killer Whales Eating a Shark Offshore Killer Whales today! Such an Awesome encounter!! We encountered these infrequently sighted Killer Whales on the 9am trip aboard the SeaWolf II. This ecotype of Killer Whales often travels in large groups and were seen about this time last December. We saw about 25 individuals and I was even able to get footage of them feeding on a Sevengill Shark with the drone! These whales are typically smaller in size than the Bigg's or transient Killer Whale type and they had several very young calves with them! So Lucky to get to see this!!! Monterey Bay Whale Watch Posted by Slater Moore Photography on Tuesday, December 13, 2016

Not only did he witness a pod of 25 offshore orcas, he also caught them nibbling on a shark like it was an oversized fish stick.

The footage starts off looking like a water ballet. There’s a pretty piano music soundtrack and the orcas ripple through their swimming moves. The video then takes a nature-is-metal turn to the wild side as the killer whales start munching on a shark.

The unlucky predator-turned-prey is believed to be a sevengill shark, which can top 7 feet in length.

Monterey Bay Whale Watch notes that this sort of food-sharing behavior is rarely caught on film. The adult whales may have been teaching their calves how to hunt, which lends the shark-eating event a bit of quality family-time flair.

According to the Orca Network, an organization dedicated to raising awareness of whales in the Pacific Northwest, offshore killer whales are known to enjoy shark-sushi meals. Moore was understandably excited about his experience, writing, “So lucky to get to see this!!!”

This article originally appeared on CNET.com.