Uber Says It Will Keep Self-Driving Cars in San Francisco
Uber Says It Will Keep Self-Driving Cars in San Francisco
Shares                Uber's self-driving cars will keep ferrying passengers around San Francisco, the ride-hailing company said Friday — a few hours before state prosecutors threatened to haul Uber before a judge if the service is not suspended immediately. In a sharply worded letter, attorneys with the California's Department of Justice demanded that Uber get a special state permit if it wants to continue. If not, "the attorney general will seek injunctive and other appropriate relief," according to the letter. Though there was no deadline in the letter, a spokeswoman for California transportation regulators, Melissa Figueroa, told The Associated Press in a text that the state would take action "early next week" if Uber doesn't comply. Uber began the pilot project Wednesday with a few Volvo SUVs that are tricked out with a suite of sensors allowing them to steer, brake and accelerate. A person sits behind the wheel, just in case. Officials with Uber and the state have talked several times this week after the state Department of Motor Vehicles issued a similar legal threat. The leader of the company's self-driving program, Anthony Levandowski, described those as "frank conversations" which left him unswayed . State lawyers insist that Uber's cars are "autonomous vehicles" which need the permit to ply public roads. Levandowski said he respectfully disagrees, arguing Uber does not require the permit that 20 other companies testing the technology in California have gotten because the Volvos have backup drivers behind the wheel monitoring the cars. That means the Volvos are not "autonomous vehicles" under the state's definition, he argued. Levandowski likened the Volvos' abilities to those of Tesla cars that have the Autopilot feature which allows them to steer without a person touching the wheel and to brake and accelerate without a person touching the pedals. He questioned why the thousands of Teslas on California roads don't need a permit if Uber's cars do. San Francisco's mayor has sided with the state. And a consumer advocacy group suggested that the state should do more than force Uber to stop. "We believe their activity is a criminal offense under the motor vehicle code, punishable with up to six months in jail," John Simpson of the group Consumer Watchdog said in a written statement. "CEO Travis Kalanick should be arrested immediately." But in a sign of the level of interest in the technology, the mayor of Beverly Hills on Friday voiced his support for Uber testing without the state permit. ——— Contact Pritchard at https://twitter.com/lalanewsman. Shares                  Uber Says It Will Keep Self-Driving Cars in San Francisco   Implementation of Texas Fetal Burial Rule Remains Murky Weeks From Possible Start Date   Babies Exposed to Zika Virus in First Trimester More Likely to Have Birth Defects, Study Says   Infants Dependent on Opioids Rising Faster in Rural Areas, Study Finds   Large Smoke Plume Seen After 2-Alarm Fire at NYC Hospital   Veteran With Double-Arm Transplant Shows Off Progress   Lawsuit Filed to Stop Texas Rule Requiring Burial for Fetal Tissue   Heroin Overdoses Kill More People Than HIV, Melanoma or Firearms   Florida Is Free of Zika, Governor Says   Surgeons Start Program in Chicago to Train Bystanders to Treat Shooting Victims   Parents of Formerly Conjoined Twins Say Seeing Them Separated Is 'Surreal'   Twins Joined at the Chest Successfully Separated in 18-Hour Surgery   Fla. Homicide Rate Up After Passage of 'Stand Your Ground' Law, Study Finds   Losing Daylight Can Trigger Seasonal Affective Disorder   Child Dies as Authorities Confirm 2 Cases of Rare Neurological Illness   Halloween Dangers Not Always What's Expected   Obama Vows Retaliation as Evidence of Russian Hacking Mounts   Clinton: Putin's Alleged Involvement in Hack Stems From 'Personal Beef'   Trump in Denial as Evidence Grows Spymaster Putin Behind Election Hacks   Obama Says Clinton Was Not 'Treated Fairly' During Election   N. Carolina GOP Strips Some of Democratic Governor's Power   Official: FBI Backs CIA Conclusion on Russian Hacking Motive   'Pizzagate' Shooting Suspect Pleads Not Guilty   'Rogue One:' Riz Ahmed on 'Star Wars' and Rap Battles   'Rogue One's' Diego Luna on Why 'Dark Side Is Very Sexy'

Uber's self-driving cars will keep ferrying passengers around San Francisco, the ride-hailing company said Friday — a few hours before state prosecutors threatened to haul Uber before a judge if the service is not suspended immediately.

In a sharply worded letter, attorneys with the California's Department of Justice demanded that Uber get a special state permit if it wants to continue. If not, "the attorney general will seek injunctive and other appropriate relief," according to the letter.

Though there was no deadline in the letter, a spokeswoman for California transportation regulators, Melissa Figueroa, told The Associated Press in a text that the state would take action "early next week" if Uber doesn't comply.

Uber began the pilot project Wednesday with a few Volvo SUVs that are tricked out with a suite of sensors allowing them to steer, brake and accelerate. A person sits behind the wheel, just in case.

Officials with Uber and the state have talked several times this week after the state Department of Motor Vehicles issued a similar legal threat. The leader of the company's self-driving program, Anthony Levandowski, described those as "frank conversations" which left him unswayed .

State lawyers insist that Uber's cars are "autonomous vehicles" which need the permit to ply public roads.

Levandowski said he respectfully disagrees, arguing Uber does not require the permit that 20 other companies testing the technology in California have gotten because the Volvos have backup drivers behind the wheel monitoring the cars. That means the Volvos are not "autonomous vehicles" under the state's definition, he argued.

Levandowski likened the Volvos' abilities to those of Tesla cars that have the Autopilot feature which allows them to steer without a person touching the wheel and to brake and accelerate without a person touching the pedals. He questioned why the thousands of Teslas on California roads don't need a permit if Uber's cars do.

San Francisco's mayor has sided with the state. And a consumer advocacy group suggested that the state should do more than force Uber to stop.

"We believe their activity is a criminal offense under the motor vehicle code, punishable with up to six months in jail," John Simpson of the group Consumer Watchdog said in a written statement. "CEO Travis Kalanick should be arrested immediately."

But in a sign of the level of interest in the technology, the mayor of Beverly Hills on Friday voiced his support for Uber testing without the state permit.

———

Contact Pritchard at https://twitter.com/lalanewsman.