David Tennant Is Going To Voice Scrooge McDuck In 'DuckTales' Reboot
David Tennant Is Going To Voice Scrooge McDuck In 'DuckTales' Reboot
Get ready to have the ‘DuckTales’ theme song stuck in your head for the rest of the day. On Dec. 16, Disney XD announced the cast of its “DuckTales” reboot scheduled to debut in the summer of 2017. Along with the announcement, it revealed the cast in a video of the actors singing a rendition of the original “DuckTales” theme song. Actors billed to lend their vocal chops include David Tennant as Scrooge McDuck, Danny Pudi, Ben Schwartz and Bobby Moynihan as the voices of Huey, Dewey and Louie, respectively, Beck Bennett as Launchpad McQuack, Toks Olagundoye as Mrs. Beakley, and Kate Micucci as Webby Vanderquack. Tennant most recently appeared in Netflix’s “Jessica Jones” as Kilgrave, but also played the Tenth Doctor in “Doctor Who” and Barty Crouch, Jr. in the film “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.” You may recognize Ben Schwartz as Jean-Ralphio from “Parks and Recreation,” Danny Pudi as Abed Nadir from “Community,” Kate Micucci as one part of “Garfunkel and Oates” and Beck Bennett and Bobby Moynihan from “Saturday Night Live.” Disney XD teased the revival’s release date earlier this month. All in all, so far this reboot looks pretty fly. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Disney's Hidden Mickeys       Share this slide:       MORE:

Get ready to have the ‘DuckTales’ theme song stuck in your head for the rest of the day.

On Dec. 16, Disney XD announced the cast of its “DuckTales” reboot scheduled to debut in the summer of 2017. Along with the announcement, it revealed the cast in a video of the actors singing a rendition of the original “DuckTales” theme song.

Actors billed to lend their vocal chops include David Tennant as Scrooge McDuck, Danny Pudi, Ben Schwartz and Bobby Moynihan as the voices of Huey, Dewey and Louie, respectively, Beck Bennett as Launchpad McQuack, Toks Olagundoye as Mrs. Beakley, and Kate Micucci as Webby Vanderquack.

Tennant most recently appeared in Netflix’s “Jessica Jones” as Kilgrave, but also played the Tenth Doctor in “Doctor Who” and Barty Crouch, Jr. in the film “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.” You may recognize Ben Schwartz as Jean-Ralphio from “Parks and Recreation,” Danny Pudi as Abed Nadir from “Community,” Kate Micucci as one part of “Garfunkel and Oates” and Beck Bennett and Bobby Moynihan from “Saturday Night Live.”

Disney XD teased the revival’s release date earlier this month.