Barack Obama says end of his presidency is 'a clarifying moment' as he gives final press conference of the year
Barack Obama says end of his presidency is 'a clarifying moment' as he gives final press conference of the year
resident Barack Obama has said the change of presidency is "a clarifying moment," as he used the final press conference of the year to discuss his legacy, differences with Donald Trump, and the threat from Vladimir Putin. Mr Obama described the continuing conflict in Syria as "one of the hardest issues I faced" - but defended his policy in the war-torn country. In the face of criticism that he could have done more to prevent the atrocities taking place in the city, Mr Obama said he was aware every day of the enormity of his responsibilities as president. "I have consistently taken the best course that I can to try to end the civil war, while also taking into account the long term security interests of the United States," he said. Students of Mr Obama's legacy have said the war  in Syria will likely be the greatest stain on his eight-year presidency. he US initially backed the nascent rebel uprising with low grade weaponry and declared President Bashar al-Assad a war criminal. But once the insurgency was under way, the White House failed to back it with the weapons supplies or US military assistance that would have dealt Damascus a decisive blow. Mr Obama listed the reasons why he did not send in US troops, saying they would have been there "uninvited, without any mandate, without support in Congress, at a time when we still had troops in Afghanistan and still had troops in Iraq". The opposition on the ground was not yet cohesive enough to govern, he said, and you had Russia and Iran, which saw its strategic interests at stake, willing to do anything to defend Damascus. He added: "In that circumstances, unless we were willing to go all in, we had to think of other ways. It was impossible to do this on the cheap. "I understand the impulse to do something. But ultimately – what is the best for America?" He told Russia to "cut it out" on election hacking he president spoke about the election, saying that he felt the treatment of Hillary Clinton was not "fair" and criticising the media for sensationalising the issues, rather than stepping back and considering the significance of the hacks allegedly carried out by Russia. Mr Obama recounted how he confronted Vladimir Putin over allegations that Moscow was interfering in the US election, telling the Russian president to "cut it out". Seeking out Mr Putin on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit in China, Mr Obama said he had told him that "there would be serious consequences if he didn't". He claimed  that the US "did not see further tampering of the election process," after this date. Mr Obama said that there had not been any  "squabbling" between his White House and Donald Trump's transition team, even as Mr Trump continued to dismiss intelligence reports on Russia's role in the election. A warning to Donald Trump ut he warned against turning Russian hacking in the United States into a "political football" and said he hoped his successor, Donald Trump, will take foreign influence in American elections seriously once he takes office. He said he had made some very "specific" recommendations to Mr Trump. "He has listened," Mr Obama said of Mr Trump. "I can't say he will end up implementing. But the conversations themselves have been cordial." The conference came a day after the US president vowed retaliatory action against Moscow. "I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action and we will at a time and place of our own choosing," Mr Obama told NPR. In a somewhat scathing swipe at Mr Trump - who has refused to accept the intelligence findings, Mr Obama said that unless Americans "genuinely think the CIA, the FBI, our entire intelligence infrastructure – many of who served in the previous administration, and are Republicans – are less trustworthy than the Russians, then people should pay attention to what they say". Ronald Reagan would "roll over in his grave" He warned against America losing sight of itself, explaining that Mr Putin can weaken the caption if "we lose track of our values". "If we start buying into the notions its OK to intimidate the press, or lock up dissidents, or discriminate against people because of their faith and what they look like," he said. Mr Obama cited a survey saying that 37 per cent of Republicans approve of Mr Putin. He added that Ronald Reagan would "roll over in his grave". China is a vital economic partner Turning to China, he avoided commenting on news reports that a Chinese warship has seized an underwater drone deployed by a US oceanographic vessel in the South China Sea, triggering a formal diplomatic protest. But he warned Mr Trump not to toy with a vital relationship for the United States. Mr Trump has broken with four decades of US diplomacy by suggesting Washington's "One China" stance may be reviewed and by accepting a call from Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen. Beijing regards self-governing Taiwan as part of its sovereign territory and has already expressed anger at Trump's move. "The idea of One China is at the heart of their conception as a nation," Mr Obama said. "And so if you are going to upend this understanding, you have to have thought through what the consequences are, because the Chinese will not treat that the way they'll treat some other issues. "This goes to the core of how they see themselves, and their reaction on this issue could end up being very significant."

A warning to Donald Trump

But he warned against turning Russian hacking in the United States into a "political football" and said he hoped his successor, Donald Trump, will take foreign influence in American elections seriously once he takes office.

He said he had made some very "specific" recommendations to Mr Trump.

"He has listened," Mr Obama said of Mr Trump. "I can't say he will end up implementing. But the conversations themselves have been cordial."

The conference came a day after the US president vowed retaliatory action against Moscow.

"I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action and we will at a time and place of our own choosing," Mr Obama told NPR.

In a somewhat scathing swipe at Mr Trump - who has refused to accept the intelligence findings, Mr Obama said that unless Americans "genuinely think the CIA, the FBI, our entire intelligence infrastructure – many of who served in the previous administration, and are Republicans – are less trustworthy than the Russians, then people should pay attention to what they say".

Ronald Reagan would "roll over in his grave"

He warned against America losing sight of itself, explaining that Mr Putin can weaken the caption if "we lose track of our values". "If we start buying into the notions its OK to intimidate the press, or lock up dissidents, or discriminate against people because of their faith and what they look like," he said.

Mr Obama cited a survey saying that 37 per cent of Republicans approve of Mr Putin. He added that Ronald Reagan would "roll over in his grave".

China is a vital economic partner

Turning to China, he avoided commenting on news reports that a Chinese warship has seized an underwater drone deployed by a US oceanographic vessel in the South China Sea, triggering a formal diplomatic protest.

But he warned Mr Trump not to toy with a vital relationship for the United States.

Mr Trump has broken with four decades of US diplomacy by suggesting Washington's "One China" stance may be reviewed and by accepting a call from Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen.

Beijing regards self-governing Taiwan as part of its sovereign territory and has already expressed anger at Trump's move.

"The idea of One China is at the heart of their conception as a nation," Mr Obama said.

"And so if you are going to upend this understanding, you have to have thought through what the consequences are, because the Chinese will not treat that the way they'll treat some other issues.

"This goes to the core of how they see themselves, and their reaction on this issue could end up being very significant."