Heavy fog affecting Christmas getaways as major airports cancel flights
Heavy fog affecting Christmas getaways as major airports cancel flights
housands of travellers have been affected at the start of the Christmas getaway as thick fog has seen dozens of flights cancelled or delayed. At least 50 flights were cancelled at Heathrow Airport on Saturday and London City Airport was forced to divert all its flights. Heavy fog is affecting movements at Heathrow today - please remember to check your flight status with your airline. https://t.co/j1iDRRKbh9 atwick, Birmingham and Manchester airports were also affected by the thick fog, with flights seen circling over the northern city unable to land. Fog is causing significant delays to departing and arriving flights at Gatwick. Check with your airline for latest update. British Airways flight from Calgary was diverted to Glasgow airport after failing to land in London safely. London City Airport tweeted: "Significant fog in London is continuing to cause flight delays & cancellations. Passengers affected are advised to speak to their airline." Adverse weather this morning is causing disruption to flights in and out of Manchester today. Stay up to date here https://t.co/0EhHNy99Fu our flights arriving into Birmingham Airport were all diverted to Manchester Airport. Delayed @Gatwick_Airport again! The joys of fog - hopefully our @aurignyair will get me home sooooon!!! pic.twitter.com/kjyTYhlQ3D ngry passengers complained they were stranded on runways for up to four hours. Graham Pratt wrote: “Sitting patiently on the BA Newcastle-Heathrow 9.35am flight at a remote stand at Newcastle. A four-hour delay so far due to London fog.” Sitting patiently on the BA Newcastle-Heathrow 9.35am flight at a remote stand at Newcastle. A four-hour delay so far due to London fog. artin Gilbraith tweeted: “Canarian sunshine beckons, but pretty much everything at Heathrow this morning is delayed by fog”. Trying to get home for #xmas , please let the #fog clear!! #jersey  #jerseyci  #airport  #delayed  pic.twitter.com/EykYZNSScO he travel issues come ahead of planned strike action next week by check-in staff, baggage handlers and cargo crew at 18 UK airports. A 48-hour strike is due to start on 23 December. The Unite union says more than 1,500 workers at Swissport, the world's largest ground and cargo handler, would walk out following a long-running dispute over pay and conditions. Talks aimed at averting the strikes will be held at Acas next week.

Thousands of travellers have been affected at the start of the Christmas getaway as thick fog has seen dozens of flights cancelled or delayed.

At least 50 flights were cancelled at Heathrow Airport on Saturday and London City Airport was forced to divert all its flights.