Aleppo evacuees are being recruited to join local jihadi extremists linked to al-Qaeda
Men fleeing Aleppo are being recruited to gangs linked to al-Qaeda


Men fleeing Aleppo risk recruitment by jihadi groups operating in northern Syria, where an al-Qaeda-linked group has its main hub.

Civilians fleeing Aleppo are moving to Idlib province, where there are more than 50,000 rebel troops, including fighters loyal to Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, a proscribed terrorist group linked to al-Qaeda.

One man who claimed to fight with Jabhat Fatah al-Sham in Aleppo, and whom escaped to Idlib yesterday, told MailOnline: 'I will stay on fighting until I am killed.'

The man, who gave his name as Abu A, left Aleppo for Idlib when the last JFS members fled the city. He said: 'I will continue in the same faction. I think that a majority of people will join Fatah al-Sham or a group in Jeish al-Fatah, because a violent battle will start here soon.' He denied there were any official recruitment plans taking place, 'as jihad is a choice, not mandatory.'

Scroll down for video

Civilians fleeing Aleppo are in danger of being recruited to terror gangs when they move into Idlib province, where there are more than 50,000 rebel troops

Rebels who wish to continue fighting the Russia and Iran-backed Assad regime will likely include 'embittered young men' from Aleppo, according to analysts.

Jeish al-Fatah (Army of Conquest) is the main rebel coalition in Idlib province, which includes factions ranging from moderate rebels to proscribed jihadi groups like Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, formerly Jabhat al-Nusra.

After the fall of Aleppo, Idlib is now the main rebel stronghold against the Assad regime, where the risk of growing extremism could benefit the brutal dictator.

The region is one of the poorest in Syria, already home to hundreds of thousands of internally displaced people. Much of its infrastructure has been destroyed in intense bombing campaigns by Russia and the Assad regime in previous months.

Extremist groups designated as terrorists such as JFS and Isis held little sway in Aleppo, with estimates of JFS fighters in the city swinging between 100 and a couple of thousand.

But in Idlib, which borders Turkey, men who previously did not sympathise with JFS's ideology may be lured into its ranks.

'JFS/al-Qaeda is one of the biggest winners from the fall of Aleppo', Syria analyst Kyle Orton told MailOnline. 'In simple military terms those who wish to continue the fight against the pro-regime coalition – likely to include many embittered young men from Aleppo City, unless the regime annihilates them all – are now moving into a phase where that cannot be done from governed areas but has to be done by guerrilla warfare, and in that al-Qaeda clearly has a tactical advantage.'

JFS also recently subsumed Jund al-Aqsa, another jihadi terrorist group operating in Idlib, that the UK says is probably behind a civilian massacre that took place in Syria in 2014.

In Idlib, which borders Turkey, men who previously did not sympathise with JFS's ideology may be lured into its ranks

Tensions within the Ahrar al-Sham group, also part of Jeish al-Fatah, mean thousands of men will arrive in Idlib to a divided and spatting rebel scene, where moderate rebel voices risk being overshadowed by hardliners.

Jihadi recruitment in Idlib would ultimately benefit the Assad regime, analysts believe. There are vast moderate civilian populations in the province, too, who have suffered living under Jabhat Fatah al Sham control, with restrictions on radio broadcasts and playing music.

'Assad worked from the start to make this binary between himself and terrorists', Mr Orton continued. 'By deporting people to Idlib, Assad continues this strategy: let the angry, displaced populations herded into Idlib join and empower al-Qaeda even further.'

The Syrian government may use the presence of Western-proscribed terrorist organisations in Idlib to excuse a future all-out assault on the area.

'When the Assad regime turns on the Idlib pocket, the 'international community' is going to find it very difficult to find a voice in which to protest when Assad presents it – not wholly falsely – as an effort to defeat al-Qaeda.'

Idlib is the Assad regime's priority for military operations over Deir al-Zour, in eastern Syria, where Isis currently holds swathes of territory.