Strictly Come Dancing 2016: Everything to know about the live final
Strictly Come Dancing 2016: Everything to know about the live final
After a lengthy few months of tangoes, waltzes and Ed Balls, tonight sees the grand final of the fourteenth series of which will see one lucky couple lift the glitter ball trophy. As well as capping what's been yet another eventful and successful series (the dance competition continued to trounce ITV rival in the viewing ratings alongside ), it's an extra-special event due to the fact it'll be the last appearance from head judge Len Goodman who announced earlier on this year he'll be stepping down following the completion of this series. Below are all the details you need to know about tonight's live final. Strictly Come Dancing 2016 in pictures               Strictly Come Dancing 2016 in pictures       Ore Oduba puts his claim in for the Glitterball with Joanne Clifton   BBC/Guy Levy        Judge Robert Rinder dancing the cha cha with Oksana Platero   BBC/Guy Levy        Lesley Joseph dancing with Anton Du Beke to 'What'll I Do' by Alison Krauss   BBC/Guy Levy        Greg Rutherford dancing with Natalie Lowe on Strictly Come Dancing   BBC/Guy Levy        Greg Rutherford hit the dancefloor like a maniac   BBC/Guy Levy        Laura Whitmore cha chas with Giovanni Pernice to the tune of 'Venus'   BBC/Guy Levy        Pasha Kovalev dances with BBC Breakfast presenter Naga Munchetty   BBC/Guy Levy        Ore threw some energetic jumps into the mix   BBC/Guy Levy        Laura Whitmore and Giovanni Pernice opened the series with a cha cha   BBC/Guy Levy        Judge Robert Rinder played on his legal prowess for his first dance   BBC/Guy Levy        Lesley Joseph was waltzed around the ballroom by Strictly legend Anton Du Beke   BBC/Guy Levy        You go Greg!   BBC/Guy Levy  The live final will air on BBC One tonight at 6:40 pm. Following the shock elimination of Olympic artistic gymnast Claudia Fragapane, this year's finalists are: The clever money would be on former eternal singer Louise Redknapp who was last week voted through to the final on the strength of the public vote along havng been joint bottom of the leaderboard; she's the only remaining contestant ti never be in the dance-off. Despite this, Danny Mac is favorutie with Ore Orduba considered the outside bet. There'll be a guest performance from Emeli Sande who's promoting her new record, as well as group performance from all of the eliminated contestants (minus Will Young who quit the show earlier this year). Last year's champion was The Wanted's Jay McGuiness who beat out soap stars Georgia May Foote and Kellie Bright to emerge as victorious. More about: Strictly Come Dancing 2016 Comments

After a lengthy few months of tangoes, waltzes and Ed Balls, tonight sees the grand final of the fourteenth series of Strictly Come Dancing which will see one lucky couple lift the glitter ball trophy.

As well as capping what's been yet another eventful and successful series (the dance competition continued to trounce ITV rival The X Factor in the viewing ratings alongside Planet Earth II), it's an extra-special event due to the fact it'll be the last appearance from head judge Len Goodman who announced earlier on this year he'll be stepping down following the completion of this series.

Below are all the details you need to know about tonight's live final.

Strictly Come Dancing 2016 in pictures







12 show all Strictly Come Dancing 2016 in pictures





















1/12 Ore Oduba puts his claim in for the Glitterball with Joanne Clifton BBC/Guy Levy

2/12 Judge Robert Rinder dancing the cha cha with Oksana Platero BBC/Guy Levy

3/12 Lesley Joseph dancing with Anton Du Beke to 'What'll I Do' by Alison Krauss BBC/Guy Levy

4/12 Greg Rutherford dancing with Natalie Lowe on Strictly Come Dancing BBC/Guy Levy

5/12 Greg Rutherford hit the dancefloor like a maniac BBC/Guy Levy

6/12 Laura Whitmore cha chas with Giovanni Pernice to the tune of 'Venus' BBC/Guy Levy

7/12 Pasha Kovalev dances with BBC Breakfast presenter Naga Munchetty BBC/Guy Levy

8/12 Ore threw some energetic jumps into the mix BBC/Guy Levy

9/12 Laura Whitmore and Giovanni Pernice opened the series with a cha cha BBC/Guy Levy

10/12 Judge Robert Rinder played on his legal prowess for his first dance BBC/Guy Levy

11/12 Lesley Joseph was waltzed around the ballroom by Strictly legend Anton Du Beke BBC/Guy Levy

12/12 You go Greg! BBC/Guy Levy

What time's it on?

The live final will air on BBC One tonight at 6:40 pm.

Who are the finalists?

Following the shock elimination of Olympic artistic gymnast Claudia Fragapane, this year's finalists are:

Danny Mac and Oti Mabuse



Louise Redknapp and Kevin Clifton



Ore Oduba and Joanne Clifton

Who's the favourite?

The clever money would be on former eternal singer Louise Redknapp who was last week voted through to the final on the strength of the public vote along havng been joint bottom of the leaderboard; she's the only remaining contestant ti never be in the dance-off.

Despite this, Danny Mac is favorutie with Ore Orduba considered the outside bet.

Who'll be performing?

There'll be a guest performance from Emeli Sande who's promoting her new record, as well as group performance from all of the eliminated contestants (minus Will Young who quit the show earlier this year).

Last year's Strictly Come Dancing champion was The Wanted's Jay McGuiness who beat out soap stars Georgia May Foote and Kellie Bright to emerge as victorious.