In His Last Press Conference, Obama Warned Putin, Advised Trump And Defended the US Role In Syria
In His Last Press Conference, Obama Warned Putin And Defended the US' Role In Syria
In His Last Press Conference, Obama Warned Putin, Advised Trump And Defended the US Role In Syria Outgoing US President Barack Obama gave his last press conference in the White House on Friday. Here are some key takeaways from what Obama told the media: 1. On Russia's interference in the elections Obama put Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on notice that the US could retaliate against its longtime rival for meddling in the US presidential election. "Whatever they do to us, we can potentially do to them," Obama warned. While he refrained from explicitly stating that Putin knew about the DNC email hacking, he left no doubt who he felt was responsible when he said, "Not much happens in Russia without Vladimir Putin." 2. On President-elect Donald Trump Obama said he hoped that his successor Donald Trump will ensure that US election process is free from foreign influence and urged him to back a bipartisan investigation into the matter. He chastised Republican lawmakers for not acknowledging the seriousness of Russia's involvement in US elections. President-elect Donald Trump has dismissed the CIA's report confirming the hacking as "ridiculous". 3. On Hillary Clinton Expressing his grievance with the election outcome, Obama said that former Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton had not been treated fairly by the media. "I don't think she was treated fairly during the election, I think the coverage of her and the issues was troubling," he remarked. 4. On the state of the US economy Obama said the nation's economy is stronger and more prosperous than it was when he came into office in 2008. He cited unemployment figures, which has gone down from 10 per cent in 2009 to 4.6 per cent in 2016. He also mentioned various policies implemented in his regime that helped boost job growth and healthcare. 5. On the crisis in Aleppo Obama observed that the only way US could have effectively mitigated the civil war in Syria was by "putting large numbers of US troops on the ground, uninvited, without any international law mandate." Efforts to evacuate civilians from Aleppo have come to a halt due to ceasefire violations in the city. Obama promised that the US will continue pressing the UN Security Council to help improve the delivery of humanitarian aid to civilians in the besieged city.

Outgoing US President Barack Obama gave his last press conference in the White House on Friday. Here are some key takeaways from what Obama told the media:

1. On Russia's interference in the elections

Reuters

Obama put Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on notice that the US could retaliate against its longtime rival for meddling in the US presidential election. "Whatever they do to us, we can potentially do to them," Obama warned. While he refrained from explicitly stating that Putin knew about the DNC email hacking, he left no doubt who he felt was responsible when he said, "Not much happens in Russia without Vladimir Putin."

2. On President-elect Donald Trump

Reuters

Obama said he hoped that his successor Donald Trump will ensure that US election process is free from foreign influence and urged him to back a bipartisan investigation into the matter. He chastised Republican lawmakers for not acknowledging the seriousness of Russia's involvement in US elections. President-elect Donald Trump has dismissed the CIA's report confirming the hacking as "ridiculous".

3. On Hillary Clinton

AFP

Expressing his grievance with the election outcome, Obama said that former Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton had not been treated fairly by the media. "I don't think she was treated fairly during the election, I think the coverage of her and the issues was troubling," he remarked.

4. On the state of the US economy

Reuters

Obama said the nation's economy is stronger and more prosperous than it was when he came into office in 2008. He cited unemployment figures, which has gone down from 10 per cent in 2009 to 4.6 per cent in 2016. He also mentioned various policies implemented in his regime that helped boost job growth and healthcare.

5. On the crisis in Aleppo

AFP

Obama observed that the only way US could have effectively mitigated the civil war in Syria was by "putting large numbers of US troops on the ground, uninvited, without any international law mandate." Efforts to evacuate civilians from Aleppo have come to a halt due to ceasefire violations in the city. Obama promised that the US will continue pressing the UN Security Council to help improve the delivery of humanitarian aid to civilians in the besieged city.

With Inputs From Agencies