Must-Hear Music Podcast: Best Albums of 2016 Edition
Must-Hear Music Podcast: Best Albums of 2016 Edition 
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Must-Hear Music Podcast: Best Albums of 2016 Edition  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Well, here we are -- 2016 is nearly over, and as we look back on a miserable year, we're left with quite a bit of incredible music as a small consolation prize. From masterpieces like Beyonce's and David Bowie 's to thrilling debuts from Gallant , Maren Morris and King to creative leaps into the future from The 1975 and Chance the Rapper , the Must-Hear Music podcast crew ( Joe Lynch , Jason Lipshutz and Natalie Weiner ) discuss the year's most acclaimed albums as well as our personal favorites. Jason and Natalie argue about the value of Anderson .Paak's , Jason and Joe go back-and-forth on Anohni 's , and we all give our picks for 2016 releases that were incredible but too long, or impressive but a chore to listen to. Listen to the Must-Hear Music podcast below and subscribe on iTunes . If you have any recommendations or thoughts about the releases we talked about, hit us up on Twitter!  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Well, here we are -- 2016 is nearly over, and as we look back on a miserable year, we're left with quite a bit of incredible music as a small consolation prize.

From masterpieces like Beyonce's Lemonade and David Bowie's Blackstar to thrilling debuts from Gallant, Maren Morris and King to creative leaps into the future from The 1975 and Chance the Rapper, the Must-Hear Music podcast crew (Joe Lynch, Jason Lipshutz and Natalie Weiner) discuss the year's most acclaimed albums as well as our personal favorites. Jason and Natalie argue about the value of Anderson .Paak's Malibu, Jason and Joe go back-and-forth on Anohni's Hopelessness, and we all give our picks for 2016 releases that were incredible but too long, or impressive but a chore to listen to.

Listen to the Must-Hear Music podcast below and subscribe on iTunes. If you have any recommendations or thoughts about the releases we talked about, hit us up on Twitter!