Crystal Palace 0-1 Chelsea: Premier League – as it happened

That’s all from me as Chelsea took another small step towards regaining the Premier League crown. I leave you with . Bye!      A quick plug before we wrap up for our Christmas charity appeal:      That's a new club record of 11 consecutive league wins in a single season, and matches our all-time best record run. Amazing. #CRYCHE      “‘David Luiz deals commandingly...’,” emails Jim Morrish. “Four words I never thought I’d see in such a sequence.”      Full-time: Palace 0-1 Chelsea How on earth do you beat Chelsea? Even Pards doesn’t have the answer. That’s 11 wins in a row for the Blues who go nine points clear at the top of the Premier League . “Antonio! Antonio!” rings out from one corner of Selhurst Park. Updated       Conte is spitting feathers on the touchline as he directs his players manically in an effort to see out these final moments. But it’s Chelsea who have the ball and that should be that.      My book of cliches confirms the free-kick is still rising.      Dann finds Benteke who brings Townsend into the game. He delivers a cross from the right which Fàbregas heads clear, but he then trips Scott Dann outside the area and Palace will have a free-kick. Andros Townsend fancies it...      Palace thwack a couple more balls long and David Luiz deals commandingly with both.      Costa is down on the ground and he’s all worn out. Michy Batshuayi replaces the potential match-winner for the final few minutes. Updated       Palace are launching ball forwards and that may be the pattern for the final five minutes. Chelsea probably should be home and dry by now, but they’re not and they will have to dig in to see it out. On the sideline, Pardew is told off by referee Jon Moss for hollering outside his technical area.      Zeki Fryers replaces Martin Kelly at full-back for Palace.      This is a gorgeous effort by Alonso from a free-kick, 25 yards out. He bends it beyond the diving Hennessey and has Antonio Conte celebrating on the touchline but it’s premature as the ball crashes against the underside of the crossbar. Cahill is under too much pressure to turn in the rebound. Updated       Ivanovic has replaced Victor Moses.      Costa has been quiet in the second half, but then he was pretty quiet in the first and still had a decisive impact. He almost gets on to a through pass in the box but Delaney is quick to get across and station himself between striker and ball. Updated       Fàbregas plays the pass of the match, slamming a half-volley 50 yards to Hazard breaking beyond the Palace defence. He takes a bit of time to control the ball and eventually Palace scramble the ball clear for a corner which is a shame because it means that pass probably won’t make the highlights reel.      Finally Andros Townsend does come on, and it is indeed Puncheon who makes way.      Alonso is next to test the Palace and Wales keeper, flashing a high one from the left of the box which Hennessey parries well clear. Moments later Moses is slipped through on goal but he trips over the ball and on to his face. It’s refreshing to see he still has that in his locker.      Kante goes even closer! Moses tees up the midfielder to skim a low shot towards the far corner, and only an excellent one-handed stop by Hennessey prevents the second goal. Chelsea are looking dangerous on the break as Palace search for the equaliser.      A chance for Fàbregas arriving in the box. The midfielder sweeps a left-footed shot low but it’s straight at Hennessey who gathers at the second attempt. At the other end, Benteke receives a high cross on his chest expertly, holding off Cahill, and gets a shot away on the spin but it’s a little tame and Courtois saves comfortably. Updated       Just as Townsend has finished straightening his shin-pads, Puncheon leaps to his feet and gives the bench the thumbs up. Townsend sits down.      Jason Puncheon is down on the ground with a knock. Andros Townsend is dusting himself down on the bench.      Alonso catches a dropping ball sweetly on the volley at a tight angle, but it slides just the wrong side of the post from a Chelsea point of view and ripples the side netting.      Fàbregas almost immediately creates a goal, getting to the byline and slinging a cross at Alonso who can’t get his feet together to get a shot on target. Updated       Cesc Fàbregas steps out from the mist to the touchline. He replaces Willian. Updated       Cabaye’s free-kick is better this time and has to be headed behind for a corner. It’s fair to say Palace are dominating this half but they haven’t been able to carve out a clear sight of goal so far.      A succession of throw-ins in the corner rather suck the joy out of the game, like one of those tap-tap-tap scenarios in snooker which evenutally leads to a re-rack. The re-rack in this instance isn’t needed as Moses smashes the ball 60 yards downfield. A moment later the wingback slides through the back of Puncheon and earns himself a fifth yellow card of the season, and like Costa he will now miss the Boxing Day game with Bournemouth. Updated       Despite the ropey set pieces this is a good spell of pressure for Palace. Chelsea are having to dig in.      Not a great delivery by Cabaye.      Puncheon wins a free-kick from Kante in the corner when he was going nowhere, and this is a useful position for Cabaye to deliver an inswinger. Benteke, Dann and Delaney lurk near the penalty spot but Azpilicueta gets in front of them all to head the cross behind. Corner.      Palace come forward but Ward’s cross is too close to Courtois for anyone in red and blue to attack.      Kante plays a one-two with Azpilicueta 30 yards out before striking a vicious shot at goal which Hennessey is relieved to parry clear. Updated       Cahill flicks a header into Cabaye’s path arriving outside the Chelsea box, who lashes a first-time shot towards the near post drawing a good stop from Courtois. At the other end, Moses whips in a cross and his opposite wingback Alonso almost gathers it at the far post but it’s a touch long.      Second half! Jon Moss gives his whistle a peep and Palace immediately thump the ball long, which quickly ends in a Chelsea goal-kick.      . Let’s get this thing on again.      On replay, while Diego Costa makes a fine leap and header, might Scott Dann have done a little (lot) more to put him off? The centre-back had time to judge the flight of the cross but never got off the ground. Hmm. What a jump from Diego... #CRYCHE  pic.twitter.com/eGBjMm12Eb      Half-time entertainment      Half-time: Palace 0-1 Chelsea Crystal Palace dealt with Chelsea pretty well on the whole, but one unplayable moment of attacking prowess by Diego Costa is the difference.      That was Costa’s 13th league goal of the season and what a critical one in a game which seemed to be drifting aimlessly towards half-time.      GOAL! Palace 0-1 Chelsea (Costa, 43 min) Azpilicueta suddenly decides to make a dash up from the back. He collects the ball in space on the right before floating a high cross to the back post, where Diego Costa rises above the Palace defence, arching his neck, and powers a header into the far corner past Hennessey. Brilliantly taken. Updated       “Re Costa reverting to type: you’re wrong in this instance,” corrects Frank Zelko on email. “MacArthur clearly kicks him in the face, as evidenced by the blood on Costa’s face. While not ‘deliberate’ it was still quite nasty, one of those where the player chooses to bring his foot down in an area where he knows it might well do some damage while knowing he can plausibly deny it.” There is indeed a line of blood running down Costa’s face, so I hold my hands up.      Cabaye dummies and Puncheon strikes the free-kick but it floats over the bar. A little wasteful, that. Thibaut Courtois has not had to make a save so far. Updated       Zaha gets motoring. He sears towards the Chelsea box, throws a step-over and draws a soft-ish foul from the retreating Alonso. This position, 20 yards out, is dangerous and Cabaye is eyeing it. Topics  Premier League   Crystal Palace   Chelsea

Diego Costa leapt highest to head Chelsea in front shortly before half-time and the Blues held on to take their remarkable run to 11 successive league wins