Blake Shelton's Top 10 Funniest TV Moments: Drunk Tweeting Advice, His Adam Levine Bromance & More
Blake Shelton's Top 10 Funniest TV Moments: Drunk Tweeting Advice, His Adam Levine Bromance & More
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Blake Shelton's Top 10 Funniest TV Moments: Drunk Tweeting Advice, His Adam Levine Bromance & More  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Blake Shelton is known as a country artist first and foremost, but he's also known for his outsized personality. He's been able to show off his quick wit and raunchy sense of humor as a coach on , bantering with Adam Levine and his fellow coaches since the show premiered in 2011. Shelton has also made dozens of other TV appearances, including hosting in Jan. 2015, appearing on late night shows like and and co-hosting the ACM Awards with Luke Bryan from 2013-15. Although just about any clip of Shelton is bound to be entertaining (and we haven't even mentioned his Twitter account, which is chock full of gems), we've rounded up 10 of Shelton's funniest TV moments below. Shelton joined actress Rose Byrne and star Kit Harington for a round of charades led by host Jimmy Fallon. His greeting of Harington with, "You want the hair touch?" alone makes the clip worth watching (as does the moment he asks Fallon, "Can you even change a flat tire?"). Shelton's been known to tweet a drunk thought or two, and earlier this year he shared three tips for drunk-tweeting success with . Step one? "Drink until you feel intoxicated."  Before hosting the 2015 ACM Awards together, Shelton and country pal Bryan bantered back and forth at a press conference. "Well obviously, I'm my favorite," Blake smirks, when asked about the evening's scheduled performances.  "Did you not even make it into the book this year? What, did you go from being sexy to straight up ugly?" Ouch, Blake. Ouch. players Taran Killam, Pete Davidson, Jay Pharaoh, Cecily Strong, Vanessa Bayer, Bobby Moynihan and Leslie Jones joined Shelton for an updated take on "Hee Haw," the famed variety show set in fictional Kornfield Kounty. The cast doesn't quite get it, though, when he asks for "nice country jokes."  Shelton and host Jimmy Fallon don noise-canceling headphones and try to talk to one another for this game, which will forever change how you hear the words "pumpkin spice latte." "You're so much bigger than everybody else, Blake." You set yourself up for that one, Adam.  Remember the lighthearted days of the 2016 election season? Yeah, we don't either. But at least it inspired this fake campaign ad from Shelton and , in which the country star calls fellow coach Levine a "shapeshifter," which may have been the nicest campaign-related insult we heard all year. Shelton, everyone's favorite "metrosexual lumberjack," is "joined" by the rest of his cast mates in a showdown against 's judges. Kenan Thompson's Steve Harvey gets a dig in on every contestant, including Shelton's country counterpart Keith Urban , who has "a voice from God and hair from Jennfier Aniston." Shelton's a good sport when faced with a particularly mean tweet, although there's a good chance that Twitter user got a drunk DM or two later that night.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Blake Shelton on the new season trailer of 'The Voice' on NBC.

Blake Shelton is known as a country artist first and foremost, but he's also known for his outsized personality. He's been able to show off his quick wit and raunchy sense of humor as a coach on The Voice, bantering with Adam Levine and his fellow coaches since the show premiered in 2011. Shelton has also made dozens of other TV appearances, including hosting Saturday Night Live in Jan. 2015, appearing on late night shows like Fallon and Kimmel and co-hosting the ACM Awards with Luke Bryan from 2013-15.

Although just about any clip of Shelton is bound to be entertaining (and we haven't even mentioned his Twitter account, which is chock full of gems), we've rounded up 10 of Shelton's funniest TV moments below.

When he played charades on The Tonight Show

Shelton joined Neighbors actress Rose Byrne and Game of Thrones star Kit Harington for a round of charades led by host Jimmy Fallon. His greeting of Harington with, "You want the hair touch?" alone makes the clip worth watching (as does the moment he asks Fallon, "Can you even change a flat tire?").

When he gave us drunk-tweeting advice

Shelton's been known to tweet a drunk thought or two, and earlier this year he shared three tips for drunk-tweeting success with Billboard. Step one? "Drink until you feel intoxicated."

When he and Luke Bryan hammed it up at a press conference

Before hosting the 2015 ACM Awards together, Shelton and country pal Bryan bantered back and forth at a press conference. "Well obviously, I'm my favorite," Blake smirks, when asked about the evening's scheduled performances.

When he and Adam Levine gave a hilarious red carpet interview

"Did you not even make it into the book this year? What, did you go from being sexy to straight up ugly?" Ouch, Blake. Ouch.

When he recreated "Hee Haw" on SNL

SNL players Taran Killam, Pete Davidson, Jay Pharaoh, Cecily Strong, Vanessa Bayer, Bobby Moynihan and Leslie Jones joined Shelton for an updated take on "Hee Haw," the famed variety show set in fictional Kornfield Kounty. The cast doesn't quite get it, though, when he asks for "nice country jokes."

When he took on the "Whisper Challenge" on the Tonight Show

Shelton and host Jimmy Fallon don noise-canceling headphones and try to talk to one another for this game, which will forever change how you hear the words "pumpkin spice latte."

When he surprised Adam Levine with "that's what she said" on The Voice

"You're so much bigger than everybody else, Blake." You set yourself up for that one, Adam.

When he released a fake campaign video

Remember the lighthearted days of the 2016 election season? Yeah, we don't either. But at least it inspired this fake campaign ad from Shelton and The Voice, in which the country star calls fellow coach Levine a "shapeshifter," which may have been the nicest campaign-related insult we heard all year.

When he competed on SNL's "Celebrity Family Feud"

Shelton, everyone's favorite "metrosexual lumberjack," is "joined" by the rest of his Voice cast mates in a showdown against American Idol's judges. Kenan Thompson's Steve Harvey gets a dig in on every contestant, including Shelton's country counterpart Keith Urban, who has "a voice from God and hair from Jennfier Aniston."

When he participated in Jimmy Kimmel's "Mean Tweets"

Shelton's a good sport when faced with a particularly mean tweet, although there's a good chance that Twitter user got a drunk DM or two later that night.