CarMax, Others Settle US Actions Over Ads on Used Car Safety
CarMax, Others Settle US Actions Over Ads on Used Car Safety
Shares                CarMax Inc. and two other used-car retailers have settled complaints from federal regulators that they touted their inspections in advertising but failed to disclose that some of the vehicles were under safety recalls and unrepaired. The Federal Trade Commission on Friday announced the agreements with CarMax, the largest U.S. used-car dealer, Asbury Automotive Group Inc. and West-Herr Automotive Group. The agency also finalized agreements in similar cases with General Motors Co. and two other retailers. Under the FTC's proposed consent orders, which are open to public comment through Jan. 17, CarMax, Asbury and West-Herr can't claim that used vehicles are safe unless recall repairs are made or open recalls are disclosed. The companies were not fined. They also have to notify recent customers by mail that cars they bought as far back as July 1, 2013 may be subject to recalls. After the public comment period closes, the FTC will decide whether to make the proposed consent orders final. Companies that advertise car inspections and safety must be honest about recalls, the agency says. The FTC says it has taken about 40 actions to protect car buyers since 2012. CarMax noted that it will change some language about recalls in its advertising. The company, based in Richmond, Virginia , said in a statement that it shares vehicle-specific recall information in its stores and online to ensure that customers are aware of them before buying cars. "We will continue to make enhancements to our comprehensive recall disclosure program," CarMax Chief Operating Officer Cliff Wood said in the statement. The consent orders with GM, Jim Koons Management and Lithia Motors Inc. were proposed in January. A consumer group criticized those agreements as failing to protect car buyers and actually harming consumers. By permitting the companies to disclose that cars may be subject to recalls, the FTC is allowing them to advertise that recalled and unrepaired used cars are safe and have been "repaired for safety," Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety said in a statement. The consent orders may lower the standard for the industry in this type of advertising and are weaker than state laws, the group said. Shares                  CarMax, Others Settle US Actions Over Ads on Used Car Safety   What to Know About Today's Electoral College Vote   Michael Moore: I Will Pay Faithless Electors' State Fines   Thousands Evacuated From Aleppo as UN Votes to Monitor the Area   Gov-Elect: North Carolina Will Repeal LGBT Law on Tuesday   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Trump to Nominate Florida Panthers Owner for Army Secretary   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Because of Severe Weather   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   Ancient Human Ancestor Was One Tall Dude, His Footprints Say   Amazon Completes 1st Drone Delivery   Unknown Do-Gooder Pays for All Christmas Trees in Lot, Sparks Free Tree Swap   Home Depot Employee Replaces Girl's Lost Doll   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Trump Action on Health Care Could Cost Planned Parenthood   Bill Cast as Christie Attack on Newspapers Is Set for Vote   Gunmen Kill 10, Including Canadian, in Attacks on Police   Zsa Zsa Gabor Dies at 99   Celebrities Pay Their Respects to the Late Zsa Zsa Gabor   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   Farrakhan Sees a New Opening for Black Separatist Message   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Marion Cotillard on 'Assassin's Creed' and Her Holiday Traditions   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

CarMax Inc. and two other used-car retailers have settled complaints from federal regulators that they touted their inspections in advertising but failed to disclose that some of the vehicles were under safety recalls and unrepaired.

The Federal Trade Commission on Friday announced the agreements with CarMax, the largest U.S. used-car dealer, Asbury Automotive Group Inc. and West-Herr Automotive Group.

The agency also finalized agreements in similar cases with General Motors Co. and two other retailers.

Under the FTC's proposed consent orders, which are open to public comment through Jan. 17, CarMax, Asbury and West-Herr can't claim that used vehicles are safe unless recall repairs are made or open recalls are disclosed. The companies were not fined.

They also have to notify recent customers by mail that cars they bought as far back as July 1, 2013 may be subject to recalls.

After the public comment period closes, the FTC will decide whether to make the proposed consent orders final.

Companies that advertise car inspections and safety must be honest about recalls, the agency says. The FTC says it has taken about 40 actions to protect car buyers since 2012.

CarMax noted that it will change some language about recalls in its advertising. The company, based in Richmond, Virginia, said in a statement that it shares vehicle-specific recall information in its stores and online to ensure that customers are aware of them before buying cars. "We will continue to make enhancements to our comprehensive recall disclosure program," CarMax Chief Operating Officer Cliff Wood said in the statement.

The consent orders with GM, Jim Koons Management and Lithia Motors Inc. were proposed in January.

A consumer group criticized those agreements as failing to protect car buyers and actually harming consumers. By permitting the companies to disclose that cars may be subject to recalls, the FTC is allowing them to advertise that recalled and unrepaired used cars are safe and have been "repaired for safety," Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety said in a statement.

The consent orders may lower the standard for the industry in this type of advertising and are weaker than state laws, the group said.