Quintessentially Canadian video shows peckish moose licking salt off car
Quintessentially Canadian video shows peckish moose licking salt off car
To this moose, a car is but a delicious lollipop. Days after the government in Alberta, Canada warned residents about car-licking moose, Theresa and Gerhard Malan spotted one slurping away at a parked car in Peter Lougheed Provincial Park. Curious, the Malans decided to pull over, staying very still as the moose made its way over to them. SEE ALSO: This Jeep towing snowboarders through city streets is so Canada Turns out, their car was an appetizing snack, too. A video posted by Theresa Malan™ (@therezamalan) on A video posted by Gerhard Malan™ (@cj_himself) on Officially, the Alberta Parks Department recommends that drivers honk their horns if a moose approaches their vehicle. However, it urges residents not to try to push a moose away from the car, as the animals may become aggressive. Please be advised of a moose warning for the Chester Lake and Burstall Pass Parking Lots and Area. More info @ https://t.co/iQCKu39cMb  pic.twitter.com/ew8qLWmE7N — Alberta Parks (@Albertaparks) December 13, 2016 BONUS: These artists blow air in molten glass to make beautiful Christmas ornaments

To this moose, a car is but a delicious lollipop.

Days after the government in Alberta, Canada warned residents about car-licking moose, Theresa and Gerhard Malan spotted one slurping away at a parked car in Peter Lougheed Provincial Park.

Curious, the Malans decided to pull over, staying very still as the moose made its way over to them.

SEE ALSO: This Jeep towing snowboarders through city streets is so Canada

Turns out, their car was an appetizing snack, too.

A video posted by Theresa Malan™ (@therezamalan) on Dec 15, 2016 at 3:45pm PST

A video posted by Gerhard Malan™ (@cj_himself) on Dec 15, 2016 at 3:51pm PST

Officially, the Alberta Parks Department recommends that drivers honk their horns if a moose approaches their vehicle. However, it urges residents not to try to push a moose away from the car, as the animals may become aggressive.