Larry Ellison's Net Worth Drops $1.9 Billion In A Day As Oracle Misses Revenue Estimates
Larry Ellison's Net Worth Drops $1.9 Billion In A Day As Oracle Misses Revenue Estimates
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Noah Kirsch       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The fortune of Larry Ellison, cofounder of Oracle, fell by $1.9 billion in a day after the company missed revenue estimates for the second quarter. (Photo: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Oracle Corporation released its second-quarter earnings report on Thursday afternoon, with mixed results. Earnings per share beat analyst estimates by one cent, but revenue came in roughly $100 million short of the projected $9.1 billion for the quarter.

The revenue shortfall, though seemingly insignificant, resulted in a sell-off of Oracle stock. When the market closed at 4 P.M. EST on Friday, shares were down more than 4% versus Thursday’s closing price.

That translated into a $1.9 billion drop in net worth for Larry Ellison, the company’s largest individual shareholder. He is worth an estimated $48.4 billion as of late Friday, according to FORBES’ real-time rankings of the planet’s wealthiest people. Ellison is still the world’s sixth richest individual, trailing such figures as Mark Zuckerberg, Warren Buffett and Spain’s Amancio Ortega.

Oracle’s decline comes at the end of a busy week for tech firms. On Wednesday, top Silicon Valley executives met with President-elect Donald Trump—whose campaign many of them had previously opposed—for a private summit in New York City. Ellison did not attend, but Oracle CEO Safra Catz was at the meeting, sitting next to Apple CEO Tim Cook. Following the gathering, multiple news outlets reported that Catz will join Trump’s transition team, which already includes another technology luminary, Peter Thiel.

Catz has served as chief executive since 2014, when Ellison stepped down as CEO—a job he had held for 37 years. Ellison cofounded Oracle in 1977 after a stint building databases for the CIA. He took the business public in 1986, one day before Microsoft’s IPO, and continues to serve as company chairman. In that capacity, he has helped guide the firm’s investment in cloud technology as part of its bid to better compete with rivals like Amazon, run by Jeff Bezos, who FORBES ranks as the world’s fourth richest person.