Michael Moore calls for protests and civil disobedience to stop Donald Trump two days before Electoral College votes
Michael Moore calls for protests and civil disobedience to stop Donald Trump two days before Electoral College votes
Popular videos    Journalist breaks down reporting on five-year-old injured in Aleppo      Ferdinand reveals advice to United under-15s after 9-0 defeat to City      Marquez fueled by his desire to win 'every Sunday, every year'      Michelle Obama gives stark summary of national mood   Michael Moore has issued an urgent message to Americans to get out and stop Donald Trump from being inaugurated as President, before it is too late. The documentarian and vociferous critic of Mr Trump is demanding those feeling disillusioned manifest their anger into action with protests and civil disobedience. After Democrats conceded to Mr Trump, Moore is urging people to rediscover their inner fight and take it to the streets to stop the billionaire business magnate entering the White House. He told MSNBC the new strategy must be one of fighting fire with fire. “Protesting, obstructing, disrupting,“ he said. "Civil disobedience. The man has no right to enter that house.” Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On Mexicans   “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Senator McCain   “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”   Getty Images     On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”   Getty Images     On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”   AFP/Getty Images     On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."   Getty Images     On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”   AFP/Getty Images     On president Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”   Getty Images     On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."   AFP/Getty Images     On Hilary Clinton's emails   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”   AFP/Getty Images     On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”   Getty Images     On tax loopholes   "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."   AFP/Getty Images     On his accuser   “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”   Getty Images     On his pro-life stance   “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable”   Getty Images     On his accusers   "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”   Getty Images     On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”   Getty Images  Moore criticised the Democrats for showing restraint in the face of Mr Trump’s victory despite Hillary Clinton winning the popular vote by almost three million . There would have been no concession from Republicans, says Moore. “The Clinton campaign and President Obama - everybody’s trying to be the nice guy. This is not the time. This is serious stuff that is ahead of us here. Our democracy here is at risk.” With hours until the Electoral College votes to make the President-elect become the 45th President, Moore said taking the high road is futile. Protests, he argues, must continue up to Mr Trump's inauguration on 20 January and beyond. “Listen, we’re hours away now from the Electoral College coming together on Monday. This needs protest, this needs people’s voices. You can go to Vigils for America . And they have a list of all the state protests at the state capitols this weekend and on Monday. People need to have their voice heard. Don’t say to yourself, ‘Well, what’s the use? How do we - nothing’s going to happen.’ You don’t know that. You don’t know that. That’s why we have to keep fighting. We have to fight all the way to Inauguration Day and then be ready for them to start the day after the inauguration passing law after law after law.” Unite for America has pulled together a number of famous names to issue an eleventh-hour plea to Republican members of the Electoral College in a video reminding them of their purpose to prevent a demagogue from coming to power. But Moore, who on Wednesday warned Mr Trump “is gonna get us killed” because of his disregard for daily intelligence briefings, wants more than a video. He wants real shows of dissent. More about: Michael Moore Comments

Michael Moore has issued an urgent message to Americans to get out and stop Donald Trump from being inaugurated as President, before it is too late.

The documentarian and vociferous critic of Mr Trump is demanding those feeling disillusioned manifest their anger into action with protests and civil disobedience. After Democrats conceded to Mr Trump, Moore is urging people to rediscover their inner fight and take it to the streets to stop the billionaire business magnate entering the White House.

He told MSNBC the new strategy must be one of fighting fire with fire. “Protesting, obstructing, disrupting,“ he said. "Civil disobedience. The man has no right to enter that house.”

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On Mexicans “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.” AFP/Getty Images

2/18 On Senator McCain “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” Getty Images

3/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” AFP/Getty Images

4/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Getty Images

5/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” AFP/Getty Images

6/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." Getty Images

7/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” AFP/Getty Images

8/18 On president Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” Getty Images

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." AFP/Getty Images

10/18 On Hilary Clinton's emails “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” AFP/Getty Images

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” Getty Images

12/18 On tax loopholes "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." AFP/Getty Images

13/18 On his accuser “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” Getty Images

14/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” Getty Images

15/18 On his pro-life stance “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable” Getty Images

16/18 On his accusers "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Getty Images

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” Getty Images

18/18 On Hillary Clinton “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Getty Images

Moore criticised the Democrats for showing restraint in the face of Mr Trump’s victory despite Hillary Clinton winning the popular vote by almost three million. There would have been no concession from Republicans, says Moore. “The Clinton campaign and President Obama - everybody’s trying to be the nice guy. This is not the time. This is serious stuff that is ahead of us here. Our democracy here is at risk.”

With hours until the Electoral College votes to make the President-elect become the 45th President, Moore said taking the high road is futile. Protests, he argues, must continue up to Mr Trump's inauguration on 20 January and beyond.

“Listen, we’re hours away now from the Electoral College coming together on Monday. This needs protest, this needs people’s voices. You can go to Vigils for America. And they have a list of all the state protests at the state capitols this weekend and on Monday. People need to have their voice heard. Don’t say to yourself, ‘Well, what’s the use? How do we - nothing’s going to happen.’ You don’t know that. You don’t know that. That’s why we have to keep fighting. We have to fight all the way to Inauguration Day and then be ready for them to start the day after the inauguration passing law after law after law.”

Unite for America has pulled together a number of famous names to issue an eleventh-hour plea to Republican members of the Electoral College in a video reminding them of their purpose to prevent a demagogue from coming to power.

But Moore, who on Wednesday warned Mr Trump “is gonna get us killed” because of his disregard for daily intelligence briefings, wants more than a video. He wants real shows of dissent.