Exclusive: Britain will be front of the queue for trade deal with US under Donald Trump's new commerce secretary
Exclusive: Britain will be front of the queue for trade deal with US under Donald Trump's new commerce secretary
onald Trump’s commerce secretary has made securing a free trade deal between the US and Britain one of his top priorities, the has learnt. Wilbur Ross, the billionaire nominated to lead on trade in Mr Trump’s administration, is understood to be determined to lower barriers between the two countries. He is said to have “extensive” business relationships and social links to Britain after decades as an investor and wants to embolden the “special relationship”. The revelation, which comes from a senior Trump source, is a boost for Theresa May, who is planning to fly out to America to meet the president-elect early in the new year . Hopes of a UK-US trade deal were boosted when Mr Trump unexpectedly won the US election last month. Unlike Barack Obama, who said that Britain would be at the “back of the queue” for a trade deal if Britain voted to leave the European Union, Mr Trump...

Donald Trump’s commerce secretary has made securing a free trade deal between the US and Britain one of his top priorities, the Telegraph has learnt.

Wilbur Ross, the billionaire nominated to lead on trade in Mr Trump’s administration, is understood to be determined to lower barriers between the two countries.

He is said to have “extensive” business relationships and social links to Britain after decades as an investor and wants to embolden the “special relationship”.

The revelation, which comes from a senior Trump source, is a boost for Theresa May, who is planning to fly out to America to meet the president-elect early in the new year.

Hopes of a UK-US trade deal were boosted when Mr Trump unexpectedly won the US election last month.

Unlike Barack Obama, who said that Britain would be at the “back of the queue” for a trade deal if Britain voted to leave the European Union, Mr Trump...