Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg exclusive: 'I felt disrespected by Mercedes bosses over team orders - and it's still not resolved'
Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg exclusive: 'I felt disrespected by Mercedes bosses over team orders - and it's still not resolved'
ere at Mercedes’ space-age fortress on the fringes of Brackley, emotions are raw. Lewis Hamilton is still lamenting the world championship that slipped from his clutches in the Abu Dhabi sunset, while Nico Rosberg, his friend-turned-usurper, is paying his final visit to the factory after a retirement announcement that has left Formula One agog. Toto Wolff, the urbane team principal, is thrust into his familiar role of having to keep the peace. In many ways, Mercedes, who have just wrapped up a treble of constructors’ titles, are a remarkable organisation: slick, ultra-disciplined, relentlessly forward-thinking. Unsurprisingly, they guard their secrets ferociously. Underneath the interview room is the wind tunnel, where they are plotting a meticulous path to a fourth straight year of dominance in 2017 . Access to this area is harder to obtain than for a nuclear bunker in Nevada. And yet in...

Here at Mercedes’ space-age fortress on the fringes of Brackley, emotions are raw. Lewis Hamilton is still lamenting the world championship that slipped from his clutches in the Abu Dhabi sunset, while Nico Rosberg, his friend-turned-usurper, is paying his final visit to the factory after a retirement announcement that has left Formula One agog. Toto Wolff, the urbane team principal, is thrust into his familiar role of having to keep the peace.

In many ways, Mercedes, who have just wrapped up a treble of constructors’ titles, are a remarkable organisation: slick, ultra-disciplined, relentlessly forward-thinking. Unsurprisingly, they guard their secrets ferociously. Underneath the interview room is the wind tunnel, where they are plotting a meticulous path to a fourth straight year of dominance in 2017. Access to this area is harder to obtain than for a nuclear bunker in Nevada. And yet in...