Liam Payne Tweets He's '100 Percent Certain' One Direction Will Reunite
Liam Payne Tweets He's '100 Percent Certain' One Direction Will Reunite
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Liam Payne Tweets He's '100 Percent Certain' One Direction Will Reunite  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Liam Payne may have been feeling under the weather, but an impromptu #askliam question-and-answer session on Twitter Saturday (Dec. 17) brightened the day for Directioners around the world. The singer, who tweeted that he was watching TV and " at home and am sick so I can't record at the moment," replied to various tweets from fans. He answered questions about his crush, his favorite artist, recording his own album and -- most importantly -- whether we will see One Direction reunite. "Will one direction ever get back together?" one fan asked. "I'm [100 percent] certain that we will," he tweeted back, echoing bandmate Niall Horan , who recently said the on-hiatus group will eventually return . @clairevendi I'm certain that we will As for his solo music, Payne wrote, "listen yeahhhhhh albums coming soon!!!!!! Hol tight for da rewind." When asked to clarify what he means by "soon," he cheekily tweeted out the definition of the word. @ziamtm listen yeahhhhhh albums coming soon!!!!!! Hol tight for da rewind @zquadpatima  pic.twitter.com/ysP3sRYocG Other highlights of the Twitter chat included naming Drake as his favorite artist and entertaining a question about who his "woman crush" is. (Hint: he's reportedly expecting a baby with Cheryl Cole .) @beyonanti drake @sadbutradrenee we all know the answer to that  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Liam Payne attends the World Premiere of 'I Am Bolt' at Odeon Leicester Square on Nov.Â 28, 2016 in London, England.Â

Liam Payne may have been feeling under the weather, but an impromptu #askliam question-and-answer session on Twitter Saturday (Dec. 17) brightened the day for Directioners around the world. The singer, who tweeted that he was watching TV and "at home and am sick so I can't record at the moment," replied to various tweets from fans. He answered questions about his crush, his favorite artist, recording his own album and -- most importantly -- whether we will see One Direction reunite.

"Will one direction ever get back together?" one fan asked.

"I'm [100 percent] certain that we will," he tweeted back, echoing bandmate Niall Horan, who recently said the on-hiatus group will eventually return.

@clairevendi I'm certain that we will — Liam (@LiamPayne) December 17, 2016

As for his solo music, Payne wrote, "listen yeahhhhhh albums coming soon!!!!!! Hol tight for da rewind." When asked to clarify what he means by "soon," he cheekily tweeted out the definition of the word.

@ziamtm listen yeahhhhhh albums coming soon!!!!!! Hol tight for da rewind — Liam (@LiamPayne) December 17, 2016

Other highlights of the Twitter chat included naming Drake as his favorite artist and entertaining a question about who his "woman crush" is. (Hint: he's reportedly expecting a baby with Cheryl Cole.)