7 can't miss apps: 'Dots & Co.,' Facetune 2, Triller and more
7 can't miss apps: 'Dots & Co.,' Facetune 2, Triller and more
With the news of Groups coming to Snapchat , and Tinder coming to Apple TV, you may have missed some of this week's best new apps. Each weekend, we round up a few of our favorite new and updated apps. This week's list includes a darkroom-inspired photo app, an app that lets you download high resolution full-screen images for your phone's wallpaper and the latest game from the minds who brought us . Check out the gallery below to see our top picks. If you're looking for more items to fill up your phone, take a look at our last roundup of can't-miss apps.   Background Whose home screen couldn't use a little refreshing? Background aims to help you find interesting wallpapers for your phone. Scroll through different feeds based on your interests and easily save he images you like.  Free: iOS    Chameleon Run The latest app from the studio behind the games, has a simple premise that's difficult to master. Test your multitasking skills as you run through each level's obstacle course while simultaneously hopping over hurdles and changing your character's color to match your surroundings.$1.99: iOS    Dots & Co  Engage your mind in a complex connect-the-dots puzzle. This latest game in the series has 275 levels of dot connecting fun. It also comes with a color blind mode so no one is left out of the fun. Free: iOS and Android     Darkr This darkroom-inspired app lets you "develop" the photos you take on your phone as you would in a typical dark room. The black and white-only app lets you control how individual parts of the phtoos look using darkroom-like editing features. Free: iOS    Facetune 2 The latest from Lightricks, Facetune 2 has even more photo retouching and airbrushing features. The app allows you to smooth over blemishes, whiten teeth and change just about any aspect of your photo. It also has standard editing features like the ability to change the background of an image, add filters and change light effects.Free: iOS    Gboard Google finally brought one of its best keyboard apps to Android. The app has Google search built in as well as GIF search and (the seriously life-changing) emoji search. The Android version also has support for multilingual typing. Fre: iOS and Android    Triller Be the star of your own music video with Triller. The app auto-edits your videos based on your recordings and music so you don't have to spend hours picking which filter you think is best for that big debut. This week, the app was also updated with the ability to make non-music videos as well, opening up a whole new realm of possibilities. Free: iOS and Android

With the news of Groups coming to Snapchat, and Tinder coming to Apple TV, you may have missed some of this week's best new apps.

Each weekend, we round up a few of our favorite new and updated apps. This week's list includes a darkroom-inspired photo app, an app that lets you download high resolution full-screen images for your phone's wallpaper and the latest game from the minds who brought us Dots.

Check out the gallery below to see our top picks. If you're looking for more items to fill up your phone, take a look at our last roundup of can't-miss apps.