Heimlich manoeuvre: Inventor of life-saving technique dies aged 96



Heimlich manoeuvre: Inventor of life-saving technique dies aged 96

Updated

The American surgeon who created the life-saving Heimlich manoeuvre for choking victims has died age 96, after suffering a heart attack last week.

Key points: Dr Henry Heimlich devised the technique in 1974

The manoeuvre for choking has saved tens of thousands of lives around the world

The manoeuvre has been popularised in mass media

Dr Henry Heimlich died early Saturday at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati. His son, Phil, said he suffered a heart attack earlier in the week.

Dr Heimlich was director of surgery at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati in 1974 when he devised the treatment for choking victims that made his name a household word.

A thoracic surgeon who often feuded with the established medical community, he said the manoeuvre saved more than 100,000 lives.

He claimed to have used it himself last May on another resident of the Cincinnati retirement home where he lived.

"It made me appreciate how wonderful it has been to be able to save all those lives," he once told the Cincinnati Enquirer.

Dr Heimlich came up with the ground-breaking technique in 1974 after reading about the high rate of deaths in restaurants that first were attributed to heart attacks, but later found to have been caused by diners choking on food.

An ordinary person could be a hero with "the Heimlich manoeuvre" — it requires no equipment, no great strength and only minimal training.

The popular wisdom at the time called for repeatedly slapping the back of person struggling with an obstruction of the passage to the lungs.

But Dr Heimlich believed the back slaps could force the blockage deeper.

To prove his method, he took anesthetized lab dogs, blocked their windpipes with hunks of meat attached to strings in case of emergency and developed a technique that would send his name around the world.

The Heimlich manoeuvre called for the rescuer to stand behind the choking victim, apply the thumb-side of a fist to a spot just under the diaphragm and between the lungs.

By pushing sharply on that spot, a surge of air from the lungs would then expel the blockage.

"Dad was a hero to many people around the world for a simple reason: he helped save untold numbers of lives through the innovation of common-sense procedures and devices," his family said in the statement.

"But he was not only a physician and medical inventor, he was also a humanitarian and a loving and devoted son, husband, father and grandfather."

Dr Heimlich wrote about his discovery for a medical journal and it began to spread due to media coverage.

A man in Washington state who came to a neighbour's rescue was credited with being the first person to use the Heimlich manoeuvre shortly after reading a newspaper story about it.

The charismatic doctor also busily promoted the technique, including appearances on late-night television talk shows with Johnny Carson and David Letterman.

Dr Heimlich collected anecdotes about Heimlich rescues throughout his life.

Among them were the aide who saved Ronald Reagan during his 1976 presidential campaign and Tom Brokaw coming to the aid of fellow NBC newsman John Chancellor.

Actress Cher was saved by director Robert Altman and Clint Eastwood once prevented a partygoer from choking.

In 2015, a 13-year-old boy was able to clear a classmate's blockage after learning the move watching the cartoon SpongeBob SquarePants.

ABC/wires

Topics: death, community-and-society, doctors-and-medical-professionals, medical-history, united-states

First posted