New Cars Could Be Required To 'Talk' To Each Other As Soon As 2020
New Cars Could Be Required To 'Talk' To Each Other As Soon As 2020
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Sam Abuelsamid       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to_external (V2X) communications (image credit: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Military Tech Company ODG Raises $58 Million To Grow Its Augmented Reality Business

More than two years after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration first issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to mandate vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications in the U.S., the agency is finally ready to move forward. Following an extended comment and testing period, NHTSA today published the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for what is expected to become Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) 150.

If the NPRM makes it to the FMVSS stage without significant changes, all manufacturers would be required to install dedicated short-range communication (DSRC) radios into new vehicles, probably starting in about 2020.

“The whole process from publication of the NPRM to final rule usually takes about one year,” explained Bryan Thomas, NHTSA spokesman. “Two years after that the phase-in period begins with half of new vehicles in the first year being affected, 75% in the second year and 100% from the third year on.”

DSRC, the technology that underpins V2V communications is actually a variant of common WiFi that falls under the 802.11p standard. DSRC radios send and receive short messages 10 times per second over a range of about 1,000 to 1,500 ft depending on the conditions. The messages broadcast by vehicles include information like position, heading, speed and braking status. In vehicles receiving the messages, drivers would get alerts for things such as a vehicle further up the road suddenly activating ABS due to a slippery condition, an approaching vehicle while attempting to make a left turn or a vehicle approaching an intersection that might not be visible.

Unlike the sensors we have in today’s driver assist systems, V2V isn’t limited to line of sight. A camera, radar or Lidar sensor can’t see through other vehicles like a large truck or bus or around a corner. V2V can help expand situational awareness for both human drivers and automated driving systems.

Earlier in 2016 there were two notable accidents involving fully or semi-autonomous vehicles that might have been prevented if V2V communications was in place. The low-speed collision between a Google self-driving prototype and a Mountain View, Calif. Bus might have been averted if the car had received a message that the driver of the bus was not slowing down.

Similarly, the crash that killed Joshua Brown in a Tesla Model S in May, happened at least in part because challenging lighting conditions, limited the ability of the car’s sensors to detect a truck turning left across its path. Augmenting the sensor signals with the additional information available over V2V could have helped the car’s AutoPilot system decide to slow down or take evasive action.

Since DSRC is a variant of WiFi it can also be implemented using existing WiFi devices by tuning them to broadcast on the same 5.9 GHz frequency. Over the past several years, a number of automakers and suppliers including General Motors, Honda and Qualcomm have demonstrated smartphones running as DSRC devices in combination with cars. This would enable vehicle to pedestrian, vehicle to cyclist and vehicle to motorcyclist communications.