South China Sea: Beijing says it will give back seized drone, accuses US of 'hyping up' issue



South China Sea: Beijing says it will give back seized drone, accuses US of 'hyping up' issue

Updated

China's Defence Ministry says it has been in talks with the United States about returning an underwater drone taken by a Chinese naval vessel in the South China Sea, but added that the US did not help by "hyping up" the issue.

Key points: Ministry says it was checking an unidentified object before discovering it was a US drone

Beijing adds US has been operating in "the presence" of its waters and will deal with it

The US maintains that it was acting lawfully

The drone was taken on Thursday — the first seizure of its kind in recent memory — about 50 nautical miles north-west of Subic Bay off the Philippines, just as the USNS Bowditch was about to retrieve the unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV), US officials said.

The Defence Ministry said a Chinese naval vessel discovered a piece of "unidentified equipment" and checked it to prevent any navigational safety issues, before discovering it was a US drone.

China said it seized the drone to ensure "the safe navigation of passing ships", a Defence Ministry spokesman said.

"In order to prevent this device from posing a danger to the safe navigation of passing ships and personnel, the Chinese lifeboat adopted a professional and responsible attitude in investigating and verifying the device."

"China decided to return it to the US side in an appropriate manner, and China and the US have all along been in communication about it," the ministry said on its website.

"During this process, the US side's unilateral and open hyping-up is inappropriate, and is not beneficial to the smooth resolution of this issue. We express regret at this."

US President-elect Donald Trump weighed in to the row on Saturday, tweeting:

But he then later tweeted: "We should tell China that we don't want the drone they stole back — let them keep it!"

The UUV drone was acting lawfully: US

Without directly saying whether the drone was operating in waters China considers its own, the ministry said US ships and aircraft have for a long period been carrying out surveillance and surveys in "the presence" of Chinese waters.

"China is resolutely opposed to this, and demands the US stops this kind of activity," it said.

China will remain on alert for these sorts of activities and take necessary steps to deal with them, the ministry said without elaborating.

The United States has maintained that the drone was operating lawfully.

"The UUV was lawfully conducting a military survey in the waters of the South China Sea," a US official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.

The seizure will add to concerns about China's increased military presence and aggressive posture in the disputed South China Sea, including its militarisation of maritime outposts.

A US research group said this week that new satellite imagery indicated China has installed weapons, including anti-aircraft and anti-missile systems, on all seven artificial islands it has built in the South China Sea.

Reuters

Topics: territorial-disputes, navy, world-politics, china, asia

First posted