Kevin Durant Finally Settles the Longstanding Debate of What Height He Really Is
Kevin Durant Finally Settles the Longstanding Debate of What Height He Really Is
Kevin Durant stans and NBA fans have this exhausted argument: How tall is Kevin Durant? Is he 6-foot-9, 6-foot-11, or 7-feet tall? KD's height is very debatable because he's a freak of nature that is the height of an average center from the '80s and '90s, yet handles the rock like a streetball God at Rucker Park, strokes threes like his teammate Steph Curry, and runs the floor like just as swiftly, if not faster, than most backcourt players in the NBA. He's listed at 6-foot-9 small forward on the Warriors website , but NBA teams tend to list players at heights either higher or lower according to their position. For example, even Charles Barkley was listed at 6-foot-6 during his playing days because he was at one point in NBA history the smallest player to win a rebounding title as a power forward that was actually 6-foot-4. So to settle this longstanding argument about Durant's height, he spoke in an interview with KNBR's Bob Fitzgerald on Tuesday about how tall he truly is. Here is what he declared below, via CSN Bay Area's transcript: "Since I love you guys so much, I was recorded at 6-foot-10 and three-quarters with no shoes, so with my shoes on I'm 7-feet," Durant said. He added, "I just like messin' with people. They just ask me so much... yeah, I just like messin' with people." So for anyone who has ever went back and forth saying that Kevin Durant is 6-foot-11, and technically not 7-feet-tall, it's the same damn thing. In fact, you heard it from the man himself, so you don't necessarily have to round up on his true height any longer. sportstips@complex.com

Kevin Durant stans and NBA fans always have this exhausted argument: How tall is Kevin Durant? Is he 6-foot-9, 6-foot-11, or 7-feet tall? KD's height is very debatable because he's a freak of nature that is the height of an average center from the '80s and '90s, yet handles the rock like a streetball God at Rucker Park, strokes threes like his teammate Steph Curry, and runs the floor like just as swiftly, if not faster, than most backcourt players in the NBA.

He's listed at 6-foot-9 small forward on the Warriors website, but NBA teams tend to list players at heights either higher or lower according to their position. For example, even Charles Barkley was listed at 6-foot-6 during his playing days because he was at one point in NBA history the smallest player to win a rebounding title as a power forward that was actually 6-foot-4.

So to settle this longstanding argument about Durant's height, he spoke in an interview with KNBR's Bob Fitzgerald on Tuesday about how tall he truly is. Here is what he declared below, via CSN Bay Area's transcript:

"Since I love you guys so much, I was recorded at 6-foot-10 and three-quarters with no shoes, so with my shoes on I'm 7-feet," Durant said. He added, "I just like messin' with people. They just ask me so much... yeah, I just like messin' with people."

So for anyone who has ever went back and forth saying that Kevin Durant is 6-foot-11, and technically not 7-feet-tall, it's the same damn thing. In fact, you heard it from the man himself, so you don't necessarily have to round up or down on his true height any longer.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.