Govt Doesn't Care About Cash Crunch, Raises Fuel Prices + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Govt Doesn't Care About Cash Crunch, Raises Fuel Prices + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Govt Doesn't Care About Cash Crunch, Raises Fuel Prices + 5 Other Major Reads From Today In what seems like a giant middle finger to all the Indians who are shedding tears over the hardships following demonetisation, the government has raised the price of petrol by Rs 2.21 a litre, and the price of diesel by Rs 1.79 per litre, excluding local levies from today. It's almost like they are singing happy holidays to the great Indian middle class while wearing the Heath Ledger Joker mask! The price revision was to come into effect yesterday but was deferred - possibly to save the demonetisation-battered government from any blushes in Parliament. The revised rates will be effective from midnight tonight. Read more here. Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Ravi Shankar Prasad Compares Demonetisation To Labour Pains, Claims It W,ol8jytill Result In Joy! These are dark times, funny but dark. While our government is targeting people over comments made on social media, minister can get away with just about anything. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad today likened demonetisation woes to "labour pain", saying its end result would be as "joyful" as the birth of a baby. Prasad made the remarks at an event organised by the Delhi BJP's IT cell that lay emphasis on how demonetisation was an opportunity for the country's transition towards a cashless economy. However, Prasad said the government's motive behind demonetisation was "less cash", not cashless. He criticised the Opposition parties for "not allowing" the Parliament to function. Read more here 2. Papua New Guinea Hits By A 8.0 Magnitude Earthquake, Large Tsunamis Feared Across Indonesia Too A magnitude 8.0 earthquake struck 157 km (98 miles) east of Rabaul, Papua New Guinea on Saturday, the US Geological Survey reported prompting a warning about tsunami waves in the region. "Widespread hazardous tsunami waves are possible," the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) said in a message following the quake, which struck the New Ireland region of Papua New Guinea at a depth of 73 km. Read more here

BCCL/representational image

In what seems like a giant middle finger to all the Indians who are shedding tears over the hardships following demonetisation, the government has raised the price of petrol by Rs 2.21 a litre, and the price of diesel by Rs 1.79 per litre, excluding local levies from today.

It's almost like they are singing happy holidays to the great Indian middle class while wearing the Heath Ledger Joker mask!

The price revision was to come into effect yesterday but was deferred - possibly to save the demonetisation-battered government from any blushes in Parliament. The revised rates will be effective from midnight tonight. Read more here.

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Ravi Shankar Prasad Compares Demonetisation To Labour Pains, Claims It W,ol8jytill Result In Joy!

BCCL

These are dark times, funny but dark. While our government is targeting people over comments made on social media, minister can get away with just about anything. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad today likened demonetisation woes to "labour pain", saying its end result would be as "joyful" as the birth of a baby.

Prasad made the remarks at an event organised by the Delhi BJP's IT cell that lay emphasis on how demonetisation was an opportunity for the country's transition towards a cashless economy.

However, Prasad said the government's motive behind demonetisation was "less cash", not cashless. He criticised the Opposition parties for "not allowing" the Parliament to function. Read more here

2. Papua New Guinea Hits By A 8.0 Magnitude Earthquake, Large Tsunamis Feared Across Indonesia Too

Twitter/Breaking911 Nature

A magnitude 8.0 earthquake struck 157 km (98 miles) east of Rabaul, Papua New Guinea on Saturday, the US Geological Survey reported prompting a warning about tsunami waves in the region.

"Widespread hazardous tsunami waves are possible," the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) said in a message following the quake, which struck the New Ireland region of Papua New Guinea at a depth of 73 km. Read more here

3. Chandigarh Tailor Caught With Black Money Worth 30 Lakhs In Cash And 2.5 Kilos Of Gold

PTI

A well-known tailor in Chandigarh was caught with 30 lakh in cash and two-and-a-half kilogram of gold by the Enforcement Directorate as part of its operation to unearth illegal cash. Out of the seized cash Rs. 18 lakh were in new Rs. 2,000 notes, the rest were in 100- and 50-rupee notes.

Acting on a tip-off, the Enforcement Directorate investigators swooped down on the premises of Maharaja Tailor in Punjab's Mohali and at sector 22 in Chandigarh.

After examining the bill books of the shop, the officials found that the owners of the tailoring shop had bought 2.5 kg gold at a rate of Rs. 44,000 per 10 gram after demonetisation.

The probe agency's investigators said that they were verifying how the notes were exchanged and who the owners of the shop bought the gold from. Read more here

4. Yet Another Death Due To Demonetisation! Farmer Collapses Inside Bank, Dies In Front Of His Son

Wikimapia

When Rajesh Kumar accompanied his 80-year-old father - Baladeen - from their village Saragpura to the Allahabad Bank branch, seven kilometres away, he did not know that it was the last journey his father would ever make.

“My father wasn’t keeping well, we needed the money badly for his heart treatment,” Rajesh told HT. “I filled the withdrawal slip for Rs 14,000 but the clerk gave us Rs 6,000. I told him about my father’s condition and my father pleaded with him but he was unrelenting”.

During the heated argument that followed, his father suddenly complained of chest pain and then slumped to the floor and died.

Read more here

5. Allegedly Radicalised 12-Year-Old Boy Attempts Two Failed Terror Attacks

AP

A 12-year-old boy with dual German and Iraqi nationality twice attempted to launch a terrorist attack in the western German city of Ludwigshafen this and last month, a local prosecutor confirmed on Sunday.

The boy tried to target a local Christmas market on November 26 and the areas near the city hall on December 5 with explosives, but failed both times to ignite them, Xinhua news agency reported. Read more here