4 Pearls Of Wisdom From The Reigning Martial Arts Action Movie Star Of The West - Scott Adkins
4 Pearls Of Wisdom From The Reigning Martial Arts Action Movie Star Of The West - Scott Adkins
4 Pearls Of Wisdom From The Reigning Martial Arts Action Movie Star Of The West - Scott Adkins Scott Adkins is undoubtedly one of the most lauded martial arts movie stars to scorch the silver screen with physical feats that most of us could not even dream of attempting. He’s right up there with martial arts legends such as Donnie Yen and Tony Jaa. In a recent interview with Gary Ogden of , U.K., Adkins sheds light on how he stays fighting fit given his busy schedule.  just in

Scott Adkins is undoubtedly one of the most lauded martial arts movie stars to scorch the silver screen with physical feats that most of us could not even dream of attempting. He’s right up there with martial arts legends such as Donnie Yen and Tony Jaa. In a recent interview with Gary Ogden of Coach Magazine, U.K., Adkins sheds light on how he stays fighting fit given his busy schedule.

maactioncinema.com

Getting into a healthy mindset

Finding a role model and getting inspired at a young age is the key foundation for inculcating a healthy mindset as a kid. “Health and fitness is everything to me, especially because I’m a physical performer,” says Scott Adkins. “I always wanted to be involved in action films. When I was a kid, I looked up to Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan, and I still do. It’s a huge part of who I am; I’ve been doing it since I was 12,” he confesses.

Set clear goals first before you start a fitness regime

Train according to your personal needs, not according to what trends suggest if you are serious about achieving the results that you desire. “If I’m playing a part that requires me to be bigger or more muscular, then I’ll up the weight training to put on more size, but my routine stays the same. I tend to do more plyometric stuff for my lower body because it helps with the jumps or kicks – also I’ve had some back problems in the past, so I don’t like to load up my neck with heavy weights. I’ll also do martial arts training, gymnastics training and lots of stretching and yoga,” asserts Adkins.

pinterest.com

Enjoy the process to stay motivated

The little incentives are necessary sometimes to stay motivated. “I enjoy it, so I don’t have to motivate myself. However, sometimes the motivation is clear – I’m probably going to be doing a film where I’ll be taking my top off, so you don’t want to be looking out of shape,” maintains Adkins. It’s equally important to be realistic about the goals you set out to achieve if you want to be motivated in the long run. “I find it hard to stay in perfect shape all year round, so it is nice to do a film where that’s not a priority. I can start eating things that I enjoy a bit more, and I can take the steam out of the training a little bit. Then once I’ve had a month or two like that I’ll get the bug again and want to get straight back into it,” professes Adkins.

Keep your eye on your target, whatever the situation

It’s almost impossible to fathom staying in shape consistently given our current erratic lifestyles. But where there is a will, there is a way. “I can see how people with a nine to five find it hard to get the motivation to get to the gym, especially if they’ve been working all day. With something like the Undisputed films, it doesn’t matter how hard the 14 hours of shooting was. I’ve got to get in the gym and get that weights session in,” declares Adkins. Also, if you don’t like something, change it if you’re serious about achieving your goals. “I don’t like going for long runs, I like to hit the mitts with some kickboxing instead,” adds Adkins.