Stephen Colbert Bashes Trump And Nixon At Same Time In One Glorious Bit
Stephen Colbert Bashes Trump And Nixon At Same Time In One Glorious Bit
Stephen Colbert had Richard Nixon to kick around Wednesday ― and President-elect Donald Trump, too. “The Late Show” host impersonated the late president to spoof a 1987 letter that Nixon wrote Trump praising him for an appearance on a talk show. In the note, the disgraced former commander in chief said his wife, Pat, told him Trump was “great” on “Donahue” and predicted that the real estate magnate would win in politics. “What pollster did Pat Nixon use ― Nostradamus?” Colbert quipped. Trump will reportedly hang the letter in the Oval Office, which spurred Colbert to action. The host revealed that “The Late Show” had also “obtained” a few other correspondences between Nixon and Trump. One of them praised Trump for his guest gig on “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” sitcom in 1994. (No matter that Nixon died the same year.) That letter, read by Colbert, had a slightly different tone. Pat tells me you were wonderful on “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.” Just like him, on the playground was where I spent most of my days chilling out, maxing relaxing all cool. I hope when you run for office, you will use this experience to reach out to the Afro-Americans. Please remind them that Lincoln was a Republican. Love, Dick. The bit starts at 6:24 above but Colbert’s zingers aimed at Trump’s cabinet choices are worth watching on the way. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Ripley's Makes Wax Dummies Of Donald Trump       Share this slide:       MORE:

Stephen Colbert had Richard Nixon to kick around Wednesday ― and President-elect Donald Trump, too.

“The Late Show” host impersonated the late president to spoof a 1987 letter that Nixon wrote Trump praising him for an appearance on a talk show. In the note, the disgraced former commander in chief said his wife, Pat, told him Trump was “great” on “Donahue” and predicted that the real estate magnate would win in politics. “What pollster did Pat Nixon use ― Nostradamus?” Colbert quipped.

Trump will reportedly hang the letter in the Oval Office, which spurred Colbert to action.

The host revealed that “The Late Show” had also “obtained” a few other correspondences between Nixon and Trump. One of them praised Trump for his guest gig on “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” sitcom in 1994. (No matter that Nixon died the same year.) That letter, read by Colbert, had a slightly different tone.

Pat tells me you were wonderful on “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.” Just like him, on the playground was where I spent most of my days chilling out, maxing relaxing all cool. I hope when you run for office, you will use this experience to reach out to the Afro-Americans. Please remind them that Lincoln was a Republican. Love, Dick.