Russia’s tradition of Reindeer wrangling

In about a week, children across America will be staring at the sky in hopes of catching a glimpse of Rudolph or one of his reindeer friends. But for the people snuggled in Russia’s remote Arctic regions there are usually so many reindeer — an estimated 730,000 — that for centuries people have had to herd these creatures to keep the population manageable. That said, 2016 has not been a good year for reindeer in the Nenets Autonomous District, a  subdivision of Siberia made up mostly of flat, lake-pocked tundra, that is the size of California, Texas, Montana and both Dakotas combined . In August, a lighting strike killed a few hundred ; a few thousand more were killed by anthrax — a result of the region’s soaring temperature ; and in October, Russia proposed killing a quarter-million to prevent the anthrax outbreak from spreading. But for the village of Krasnoye, the only settlement in the Nenets region connected by road to the region’s capital, the herding tradition lives on. Igor Ledkov, who works at the Harp agricultural cooperative in Krasnoye, told Reuters photographer Sergei Karpukhin, who photographed the practice last month, “this year we plan to cull more than 3,000 reindeer.” Ledkov said the h erders try to ensure the population doesn’t exceed 17,000 . Although Karpukhin’s stunning and spirited images capture the art and craft of reindeer culling, he isn’t the first photographer to document the ritual. The Washington Post featured Sebastiao Salgado’s stark black and white images four years ago. A lot has changed, but much has remained the same.



A herd of reindeer inside an enclosure in the settlement of Krasnoye in Nenets Autonomous District, Russia. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Herders select and sort reindeer inside the enclosure. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)

In about a week, children across America will be staring at the sky in hopes of catching a glimpse of Rudolph or one of his reindeer friends. But for the people snuggled in Russia’s remote Arctic regions there are usually so many reindeer — an estimated 730,000 — that for centuries people have had to herd these creatures to keep the population manageable.

That said, 2016 has not been a good year for reindeer in the Nenets Autonomous District, a subdivision of Siberia made up mostly of flat, lake-pocked tundra, that is the size of California, Texas, Montana and both Dakotas combined.

In August, a lighting strike killed a few hundred; a few thousand more were killed by anthrax — a result of the region’s soaring temperature; and in October, Russia proposed killing a quarter-million to prevent the anthrax outbreak from spreading.

But for the village of Krasnoye, the only settlement in the Nenets region connected by road to the region’s capital, the herding tradition lives on.

Igor Ledkov, who works at the Harp agricultural cooperative in Krasnoye, told Reuters photographer Sergei Karpukhin, who photographed the practice last month, “this year we plan to cull more than 3,000 reindeer.” Ledkov said the herders try to ensure the population doesn’t exceed 17,000.

Although Karpukhin’s stunning and spirited images capture the art and craft of reindeer culling, he isn’t the first photographer to document the ritual. The Washington Post featured Sebastiao Salgado’s stark black and white images four years ago. A lot has changed, but much has remained the same.



A man stands at a site that local residents consider holy, during the sunrise in the Nenets Autonomous District. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Herders select and sort reindeer inside the enclosure. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



A herder sits inside the enclosure where he and others select and sort reindeer in Krasnoye. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Herders cut off reindeer antlers inside the enclosure in the settlement. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



A girl watches herders selecting and sorting reindeer near the enclosure. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Reindeer antlers cut off by herders lie inside the enclosure. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Farm employees process reindeer carcasses in the settlement of Krasnoye. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)



Reindeer herders cook and eat inside a tent in the tundra area in the Nenets Autonomous District. (Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters)