Defying Referendum, Bolivia's Morales Agrees to Run Again
Defying Referendum, Bolivia's Morales Agrees to Run Again
Shares                Bolivian President Evo Morales on Saturday agreed to run for a fourth term in office after his ruling party proclaimed him its candidate in 2019 elections, defying the results of a February referendum. His Movement for Socialism party approved his candidacy in a unanimous vote. Later, Morales said "if the people say let's go with Evo, then let's continue defeating the right and continue with our process." Bolivia's first indigenous president was first elected in 2005, and then re-elected in 2009 and 2014. But he narrowly lost a referendum earlier this year on whether the constitution should be revised to allow him to run again in 2019. His current term expires on January 22, 2020. Bolivia's constitution only allows two consecutive terms in office. He had sought to raise it to three straight terms. While this next election would be for his fourth, the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that his first term in office doesn't count since Morales didn't complete the full five-year term. This is because in 2009 the government changed the constitution to make Bolivia a plurinational state instead of a republic. The ruling party said it was considering four ways to allow Morales to run again, including the possibilities of changing the constitution through the legislative assembly or a signature-collection drive. Other possibilities include having Morales step down six months early or asking the Constitutional Tribunal for another interpretation. But the opposition said that any Morales re-election bid would be unconstitutional because of the referendum. "No means no," said opposition leader Jorge Quiroga. Shares                  Defying Referendum, Bolivia's Morales Agrees to Run Again   What to Know About Today's Electoral College Vote   Michael Moore: I Will Pay Faithless Electors' State Fines   Thousands Evacuated From Aleppo as UN Votes to Monitor the Area   Gov-Elect: North Carolina Will Repeal LGBT Law on Tuesday   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Trump to Nominate Florida Panthers Owner for Army Secretary   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Because of Severe Weather   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   Ancient Human Ancestor Was One Tall Dude, His Footprints Say   Amazon Completes 1st Drone Delivery   Unknown Do-Gooder Pays for All Christmas Trees in Lot, Sparks Free Tree Swap   Home Depot Employee Replaces Girl's Lost Doll   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Trump Action on Health Care Could Cost Planned Parenthood   Bill Cast as Christie Attack on Newspapers Set for Vote   Gunmen Kill 10, Including Canadian, in Attacks on Police   Zsa Zsa Gabor Dies at 99   Celebrities Pay Their Respects to the Late Zsa Zsa Gabor   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   Farrakhan Sees a New Opening for Black Separatist Message   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Marion Cotillard on 'Assassin's Creed' and Her Holiday Traditions   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

Bolivian President Evo Morales on Saturday agreed to run for a fourth term in office after his ruling party proclaimed him its candidate in 2019 elections, defying the results of a February referendum.

His Movement for Socialism party approved his candidacy in a unanimous vote. Later, Morales said "if the people say let's go with Evo, then let's continue defeating the right and continue with our process."

Bolivia's first indigenous president was first elected in 2005, and then re-elected in 2009 and 2014. But he narrowly lost a referendum earlier this year on whether the constitution should be revised to allow him to run again in 2019. His current term expires on January 22, 2020.

Bolivia's constitution only allows two consecutive terms in office. He had sought to raise it to three straight terms. While this next election would be for his fourth, the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that his first term in office doesn't count since Morales didn't complete the full five-year term. This is because in 2009 the government changed the constitution to make Bolivia a plurinational state instead of a republic.

The ruling party said it was considering four ways to allow Morales to run again, including the possibilities of changing the constitution through the legislative assembly or a signature-collection drive. Other possibilities include having Morales step down six months early or asking the Constitutional Tribunal for another interpretation.

But the opposition said that any Morales re-election bid would be unconstitutional because of the referendum.

"No means no," said opposition leader Jorge Quiroga.