Maatsuyker Island: Volunteers wanted to really 'get away from it all' at remote lighthouse



Maatsuyker Island: Volunteers wanted to really 'get away from it all' at remote lighthouse

Updated

Are you sick of the stress of modern life?

Do you dream about getting off the grid, escaping to a remote island paradise with a close friend or partner?

Well this could be the job for you.

Tasmania's Parks and Wildlife Service is looking for two volunteer caretakers to live on remote Maatsuyker Island about 10 kilometres off the state's south-west coast for six months.

The deal includes a return helicopter flight, the opportunity to develop an intimate knowledge of local weather, and a guarantee to get up-close and personal with native wildlife

"It's a really, really important habitat for short-tailed shearwaters and also for breeding marine mammals like New Zealand and Australian fur seals and elephant seals", Ranger Jeremy Hood said.

But there is a catch or two.

You will have access to AM radio, emergency radio and a temperamental landline phone, but there is no internet or email, little heating and you need to pack all the food and supplies you would need for half a year.

Robyn Mundy, who is currently living on the island with her partner, Gary Miller, said the shopping list was no easy task.

"What we didn't cater for is just how much we would eat, because of the physical work. We have turned into eating machines," Ms Mundy said.

That physical work is mainly mowing, to be precise there is about two kilometres of grass to mow, which is a lot considering the island is only about three kilometres long and one-and-a-half kilometres wide.

"We spend two to three days mowing every couple of weeks," Mr Miller said.

On the plus side, the lighthouse is automated.

So what else do they do?

One of the main roles is taking weather observations for the Bureau of Meteorology twice a day, which involves a perilous 6:00am hike uphill to the weather station in all conditions.

The maximum wind gust recorded on Maatsuyker Island was 176 kilometres per hour and it rains around 250 days a year.

Robyn Mundy has written a book about Maatsuyker Island called Wild Light.

Gary Miller spends a lot of time fixing things which have been broken by the severe wind and rain.

"I don't think it suits everyone, I think it's a lot of hard work and for a lot of people it would be their idea of misery really, the creature comforts are few and far between, the house is really cold, there's very minimal heating" Ms Mundy said.

With that sales pitch, it is no wonder Jeremy Hood is not expecting many of the thousands of people who have viewed the service's Facebook post to apply for the job.

"By the time people download the application package and have a good sober look at what's going to be required and the commitment and look at how they can arrange their life around six months, that's usually a fairly good filter" he said.

Topics: community-and-society, human-interest, environment, dover-7117

First posted