CeeLo Green Says He's 'Alive and Well' After Cell Phone Explosion Video Surfaces
CeeLo Green Says He's 'Alive and Well' After Cell Phone Explosion Video Surfaces
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks CeeLo Green Says He's 'Alive and Well' After Cell Phone Explosion Video Surfaces  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  CeeLo Green has come forward to confirm that he is fine after a video that seemingly showed a cell phone exploding in his face circulated Saturday (Dec. 17). The singer posted a Facebook Live update Saturday night. "I just want to let everybody know that I am alive, and I'm well and I'm OK," CeeLo said in the clip. "Truthfully, I'm really upset that anybody had to be emotionally disturbed by what they saw today," he continued. A surveillance-style video of the incident showed CeeLo collapsing after his cell phone burst into flames. According to the singer, the footage was just part of a new music project. "Actually, what you saw today was a clip from a smaller video that we were shooting for a new project I'm doing called Gnarly Davidson. It's supposed to set up and introduce the new character identity, you know what I'm saying?" CeeLo explained. "I'm still gonna release the music, though," he added. "But first and foremost, for everybody that love me and care about me, I just want to say that I'm OK ... I just want to thank everybody for their love and support and concern." Watch his Facebook video below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

CeeLo Green has come forward to confirm that he is fine after a video that seemingly showed a cell phone exploding in his face circulated Saturday (Dec. 17). The singer posted a Facebook Live update Saturday night.

"I just want to let everybody know that I am alive, and I'm well and I'm OK," CeeLo said in the clip.

"Truthfully, I'm really upset that anybody had to be emotionally disturbed by what they saw today," he continued.

A surveillance-style video of the incident showed CeeLo collapsing after his cell phone burst into flames. According to the singer, the footage was just part of a new music project.

"Actually, what you saw today was a clip from a smaller video that we were shooting for a new project I'm doing called Gnarly Davidson. It's supposed to set up and introduce the new character identity, you know what I'm saying?" CeeLo explained.



"I'm still gonna release the music, though," he added. "But first and foremost, for everybody that love me and care about me, I just want to say that I'm OK ... I just want to thank everybody for their love and support and concern."

Watch his Facebook video below.