New York Giants to be fined for walkie-talkie use, sources say
Sources: Giants to be fined for walkie-talkie use
Sources: Giants to be fined for walkie-talkie use Jerry: Salvation Army should give Elliott an award Report: Broncos squabble erupts in locker room Jaguars fire coach Bradley after 14-48 record Osweiler benched; Savage rallies Texans to win Steelers to Hill: Don't disrespect Terrible Towel RB Ingram: Need to 'control my emotions better' Best and worst QBs of Week 15: Matt Ryan leads the way The great NFL lessons of 2016 (so far) AFC East title makes joyous Martellus Bennett forget his past Time for Patriots fans to book a flight to Houston ... again NFL playoff picture: Patriots, Raiders punch their tickets What 10 wins means for the Giants and their playoff chances The Big Story for every NFL team Going for two, and the win, becoming more popular among NFL coaches Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? 'Sidekick' Bruce Irvin: Robin showed up for the Raiders Lots of fun as Ezekiel Elliott goes about his work for Cowboys 1 Related Ezekiel Elliott shouldn'€™t have been penalized for Salvation Army celebration Cowboys take bumpy road in inching closer to NFC East title Dak Prescott rebounds against Bucs, quiets critics Broncos' playoff to-do list: Keep locker room together, win out Aaron Rodgers shows why no one should want to play the Packers Ravens pumped for biggest regular-season meeting ever with rival Steelers Thanks to Cowboys, Redskins regain control of playoff fate To reclaim winning culture, 49ers need significant change Players recall how the biggest plays of Week 15 went down Steelers amped for much-anticipated 'game of chess' with Ravens Parlays give Vegas books another losing weekend Titans' 'do not doubt' attitude keeps them tied atop AFC South Jets' big-money players have failed, and now it's time to cash out Doug Pederson wins points in Eagles' locker room with aggressive approach Sticking with Blake Bortles among things that cost Gus Bradley his job 1 Related Tom Coughlin, Todd Haley, Josh McDaniels names to watch in Jaguars search Biggest NFL injuries of Week 15 Alex Smith's end-zone interceptions ruining a good thing for Chiefs Bills' final two games should matter little in decision about Rex Ryan Scary thought for playoff teams: Giants winning with defense 3 Related Another OBJ one-handed catch helps lift Giants Giants on verge of playoffs thanks to home cooking Lions' offense sputters in loss to Giants, snapping win streak Odell Beckham Jr.'s 'catch' against Lions: Worst call of the year? Adam Schefter reports the Giants are expected to be fined for illegally using walkie-talkies during a win over the Cowboys and the team is not expected to lose a draft pick, which has upset officials in other organizations. (1:03) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment ESPN NFL Insider Joined ESPN in 2009 Former president of the Pro Football Writers of America and the author of four books Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment The New York Giants are expected to be fined for illegally using walkie-talkies during last Sunday's 10-7 win over the Dallas Cowboys , according to league sources. The league said it has not made any final determinations on whether to fine the Giants or how much, but other sources said a fine will be coming for the Giants. However, the team is not expected to lose a draft pick for a violation that has offended various officials in other organizations who have complained privately about it throughout the week. Coaches are not allowed to hold any two-way radios during a game, but Giants coach Ben McAdoo was seen on the sidelines holding the walkie-talkie when it was apparent the team was having trouble getting plays in to Eli Manning . One NFL source said that even though the Giants weren't communicating with Manning within 15 seconds of the play clock ending, they had the "opportunity" to do it. The same source said McAdoo's use of a walkie-talkie is worse than what the Cleveland Browns did in 2014, when they ultimately lost a draft pick for in-game communications between former general manager Ray Farmer and former offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan. The Giants said they were cooperating with the NFL on the matter Friday. "Start off by talking about the walkie-talkie incident in the game," McAdoo said during his Friday news conference. "We've touched base with the league, we're working through it right now. I don't have anything to add, but we are working with the league on the incident." McAdoo refused to provide any more details on the situation. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Adam Schefter reports the Giants are expected to be fined for illegally using walkie-talkies during a win over the Cowboys and the team is not expected to lose a draft pick, which has upset officials in other organizations. (1:03)

The New York Giants are expected to be fined for illegally using walkie-talkies during last Sunday's 10-7 win over the Dallas Cowboys, according to league sources.

The league said it has not made any final determinations on whether to fine the Giants or how much, but other sources said a fine will be coming for the Giants. However, the team is not expected to lose a draft pick for a violation that has offended various officials in other organizations who have complained privately about it throughout the week.

Coaches are not allowed to hold any two-way radios during a game, but Giants coach Ben McAdoo was seen on the sidelines holding the walkie-talkie when it was apparent the team was having trouble getting plays in to Eli Manning.

Giants coach Ben McAdoo said he has been on an NFL sideline before when there were communication problems, but that was before the new system for communications was put into place this season. William Hauser/USA TODAY Sports

One NFL source said that even though the Giants weren't communicating with Manning within 15 seconds of the play clock ending, they had the "opportunity" to do it. The same source said McAdoo's use of a walkie-talkie is worse than what the Cleveland Browns did in 2014, when they ultimately lost a draft pick for in-game communications between former general manager Ray Farmer and former offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan.

The Giants said they were cooperating with the NFL on the matter Friday.

"Start off by talking about the walkie-talkie incident in the game," McAdoo said during his Friday news conference. "We've touched base with the league, we're working through it right now. I don't have anything to add, but we are working with the league on the incident."

McAdoo refused to provide any more details on the situation.

ESPN Giants reporter Jordan Raanan contributed to this report.