'SNL' mocks Trump, Putin and ties with Exxon CEO

'SNL' mocks Trump, Putin and ties with Exxon CEO Updated 1208 GMT (2008 HKT) December 18, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (17 Videos) Story highlights 'SNL' mocks Trump's pick for Secretary of State and his ties with Russian president Opening featured Alec Baldwin as Trump and John Goodman as Rex Tillerson After being criticized by the President-elect as "mean-spirited" and "not very good," Alec Baldwin and his impersonation of Donald Trump returned on "Saturday Night Live" this week. Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse. Sad Well, look who came down the chimney! #SNL  pic.twitter.com/0R9o81HvlY *casual secret handshake* #SNL  pic.twitter.com/A6rAp4gvav

Story highlights 'SNL' mocks Trump's pick for Secretary of State and his ties with Russian president

Opening featured Alec Baldwin as Trump and John Goodman as Rex Tillerson

(CNN) After being criticized by the President-elect as "mean-spirited" and "not very good," Alec Baldwin and his impersonation of Donald Trump returned on "Saturday Night Live" this week.

So far, Trump has not tweeted his take on the latest SNL episode as he did two weeks ago.

Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse. Sad — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016

In the first sketch of the show, Baldwin as Donald Trump gets a surprise holiday visitor who enters through the chimney. It turns out to be a shirtless Russian President Vladimir Putin who is carrying a sack full of presents.

Well, look who came down the chimney! #SNL pic.twitter.com/0R9o81HvlY — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) December 18, 2016

"Mr. Trump, we are here because your CIA is saying that we Russians tried to make you win election," says Putin, played by Beck Bennett.

"I know, all lies, made up by some very bitter people who need to move on!" Baldwin as Trump replies.

Read More