Kelly Osbourne dishes on holiday plans, family traditions and more
Kelly Osbourne dishes on holiday plans, family traditions and more
Kelly Osbourne arrives at Zoe Kravitz Celebrates Her New Role With Yves Saint Laurent Beauty on May 18, 2016 in Los Angeles.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  With rock star dad Ozzy Osbourne and “The Talk” co-host Sharon Osbourne as her mom, Kelly Osbourne realizes that her family is anything but ordinary. “I am an Osbourne [after all],” she told CBS News. “We may be nuts and dysfunctional — people call us [that] — but we love each other to death.” For Osbourne, there’s no place like home for the holidays, which is why the “Project Runway: Junior” judge is teaming up with HotelTonight , a travel app that helps customers find deals on last-minute hotel reservations. While traveling around the country to promote the app, Osbourne finds herself reflecting on family, traditions and spending holidays at home. Kelly Osbourne decorates a Christmas tree with her mom, Sharon, in this throwback Instagram picture. Here’s what Osbourne had to say about her holiday plans, favorite family traditions, her new memoir and more. I think it’s kind of a bit of a word of mouth thing, because I discovered the app one time when I missed a flight flying back from New York to L.A. and I was stranded with no computer because my computer charger I left. I had my phone and my friend said to download HotelTonight, and I ended up getting the presidential suite in this hotel for about $175. I mean, what did we do before stuff like this? They do talk about my appearance all the time. I get that every, every single day of my life. “When are you gonna stop shaving your head?” “Please go back to having your goldie locks like you had when you were a little baby.” I’m like, “Dad, that’s my hair. You cut your hair off.” I get that every single day, but when it comes to Christmas, they’ll really go for it. I blame my brother for that, because he has two beautiful angels — Pearl and Andy Rose — and they make Christmas so much fun for us again. But now we argue in a different way, because we will never argue in front of them. We have very English traditions. We celebrate Christmas dinner on Christmas Eve and then we take all the leftovers from the food from the night before and mix it with the mashed potatoes and turn them into patties and fry them. In England, that’s called “bubble and squeak.” Then most of us just sit in our pajamas, watching whatever my dad has chosen, because if he doesn’t like what we’re watching, he’ll talk through the whole thing. However, when he picks the movie that we’ve watched 25 f***ing times, we’re not allowed to say a word, cause he’ll shush us through the whole thing. I do. You know, I’m a 32-year-old who spends more time with their parents than anyone else. I love my mom and dad so much. We may be nuts and dysfunctional — people call us — but we love each other to death, and whatever we can do to be there for each other we will always be there. When we found out the truth about Santa Claus. Me and my brother set up a booby trap. I was probably about 8, Jack was probably about 7. We put fishing wire and made it into like a spider web, so when my dad went in our rooms to put our Christmas stocking at the end of the bed he came crashing down, everything fell, everything broke and we got in so much trouble. In retrospect, we could have really hurt him. Now I feel bad about it, but then I was so self-righteous. My mom’s cancer and my dad’s accident . I could barely put pen to paper. I can’t even read the chapters without crying. “Project Runway: Junior” starts next week on Thursday, Dec. 22. I’m so excited for season 2. I can’t wait for everyone to see these inspiring young designers who are just so talented. It’s such a fun job to have. It’s such a beautiful experience to watch them grow and have them show us their talent and to work with young people who want to be something, who want to learn a craft and be good at it. It’s just amazing.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

With rock star dad Ozzy Osbourne and “The Talk” co-host Sharon Osbourne as her mom, Kelly Osbourne realizes that her family is anything but ordinary.

“I am an Osbourne [after all],” she told CBS News. “We may be nuts and dysfunctional — people call us [that] — but we love each other to death.”

For Osbourne, there’s no place like home for the holidays, which is why the “Project Runway: Junior” judge is teaming up with HotelTonight, a travel app that helps customers find deals on last-minute hotel reservations.

While traveling around the country to promote the app, Osbourne finds herself reflecting on family, traditions and spending holidays at home.

Instagram/@kellyosbourne

Here’s what Osbourne had to say about her holiday plans, favorite family traditions, her new memoir and more.

Tell me a little bit about your partnership with HotelTonight, and why you decided to team up with them.

I think it’s kind of a bit of a word of mouth thing, because I discovered the app one time when I missed a flight flying back from New York to L.A. and I was stranded with no computer because my computer charger I left. I had my phone and my friend said to download HotelTonight, and I ended up getting the presidential suite in this hotel for about $175. I mean, what did we do before stuff like this?

HotelTonight interviewed 2,000 parents and adult kids on their top grievances about each other over the holidays. For kids, it mentioned topics such as “talk about my appearance,” “ask personal questions about my love life,” to “pose opinions I don’t agree with.” What would you say is your top grievance about your parents?

They do talk about my appearance all the time. I get that every, every single day of my life. “When are you gonna stop shaving your head?” “Please go back to having your goldie locks like you had when you were a little baby.” I’m like, “Dad, that’s my hair. You cut your hair off.” I get that every single day, but when it comes to Christmas, they’ll really go for it.

You posted on Twitter about your parents constantly asking, “When are you going to have a baby?”

I blame my brother for that, because he has two beautiful angels — Pearl and Andy Rose — and they make Christmas so much fun for us again. But now we argue in a different way, because we will never argue in front of them.

What are some holiday traditions you’ve had as a family? Did you have any unique traditions in your house?

We have very English traditions. We celebrate Christmas dinner on Christmas Eve and then we take all the leftovers from the food from the night before and mix it with the mashed potatoes and turn them into patties and fry them. In England, that’s called “bubble and squeak.” Then most of us just sit in our pajamas, watching whatever my dad has chosen, because if he doesn’t like what we’re watching, he’ll talk through the whole thing. However, when he picks the movie that we’ve watched 25 f***ing times, we’re not allowed to say a word, cause he’ll shush us through the whole thing.

How much time do you end up spending with your family? I know you have a busy schedule. Do you get any time to relax?

I do. You know, I’m a 32-year-old who spends more time with their parents than anyone else. I love my mom and dad so much. We may be nuts and dysfunctional — people call us — but we love each other to death, and whatever we can do to be there for each other we will always be there.

Is there a specific childhood memory around the holidays that sticks out to you?

When we found out the truth about Santa Claus. Me and my brother set up a booby trap. I was probably about 8, Jack was probably about 7. We put fishing wire and made it into like a spider web, so when my dad went in our rooms to put our Christmas stocking at the end of the bed he came crashing down, everything fell, everything broke and we got in so much trouble. In retrospect, we could have really hurt him. Now I feel bad about it, but then I was so self-righteous.

You have a new memoir, “There Is No F—ing Secret: Letters from a Badass B—-”, coming out this spring. What was one of the hardest things for you to talk about in this book. It’s pretty personal.

My mom’s cancer and my dad’s accident. I could barely put pen to paper. I can’t even read the chapters without crying.

What are some other projects or events are coming up that you’d like your fans to know about?

“Project Runway: Junior” starts next week on Thursday, Dec. 22. I’m so excited for season 2. I can’t wait for everyone to see these inspiring young designers who are just so talented. It’s such a fun job to have. It’s such a beautiful experience to watch them grow and have them show us their talent and to work with young people who want to be something, who want to learn a craft and be good at it. It’s just amazing.