Saudi Telecom Co. Buys Stake in Riding-Hailing App Careem
Saudi Telecom Co. Buys Stake in Riding-Hailing App Careem
Shares                The Saudi Telecom Co. has bought a 10-percent stake in the ride-hailing app Careem, which is a Mideast competitor of Uber . The largely state-owned communication firm announced Sunday in a stock exchange filing it bought the stake for $100 million. Saudi Telecom Co. said the purchase is "in line with the company strategy to invest in the innovative digital world." Dubai-based Careem, which began operations in July 2012, operates in 11 countries across the Mideast. This is yet another big investment in ride-hailing apps for Saudi Arabia , an ultraconservative Sunni-ruled kingdom where women are not allowed to drive. In June, the oil-rich nation's sovereign investment fund announced it would invest $3.5 billion into San Francisco-based Uber. Uber has said 80 percent of its passengers in Saudi Arabia are women. Shares                  Saudi Telecom Co. Buys Stake in Riding-Hailing App Careem   What to Know About Today's Electoral College Vote   Michael Moore: I Will Pay Faithless Electors' State Fines   Thousands Evacuated From Aleppo as UN Votes to Monitor the Area   Gov-Elect: North Carolina Will Repeal LGBT Law on Tuesday   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Trump to Nominate Florida Panthers Owner for Army Secretary   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Because of Severe Weather   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   Ancient Human Ancestor Was One Tall Dude, His Footprints Say   Amazon Completes 1st Drone Delivery   Unknown Do-Gooder Pays for All Christmas Trees in Lot, Sparks Free Tree Swap   Home Depot Employee Replaces Girl's Lost Doll   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Trump Action on Health Care Could Cost Planned Parenthood   Bill Cast as Christie Attack on Newspapers Is Set for Vote   Gunmen Kill 10, Including Canadian, in Attacks on Police   Zsa Zsa Gabor Dies at 99   Celebrities Pay Their Respects to the Late Zsa Zsa Gabor   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   Farrakhan Sees a New Opening for Black Separatist Message   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Marion Cotillard on 'Assassin's Creed' and Her Holiday Traditions   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

The Saudi Telecom Co. has bought a 10-percent stake in the ride-hailing app Careem, which is a Mideast competitor of Uber.

The largely state-owned communication firm announced Sunday in a stock exchange filing it bought the stake for $100 million.

Saudi Telecom Co. said the purchase is "in line with the company strategy to invest in the innovative digital world."

Dubai-based Careem, which began operations in July 2012, operates in 11 countries across the Mideast.

This is yet another big investment in ride-hailing apps for Saudi Arabia, an ultraconservative Sunni-ruled kingdom where women are not allowed to drive.

In June, the oil-rich nation's sovereign investment fund announced it would invest $3.5 billion into San Francisco-based Uber. Uber has said 80 percent of its passengers in Saudi Arabia are women.