This Surat Tea Seller Just Redefined 'Black Tea' For Us, I-T Seizes Rs 400 Crores And Jewellery From Him
This Surat Tea Seller Just Redefined 'Black Tea' For Us, I-T Seizes Rs 400 Crores From Him
This Surat Tea Seller Just Redefined 'Black Tea' For Us, I-T Seizes Rs 400 Crores And Jewellery From Him The Income Tax Department on Saturday raided the premises of city-based tea seller-turned-financier Kishore Bhaijyawala and seized cash worth approximately Rs 400 crores, including cash, bullion, jewellery and property papers from his possession. (Also read: Rs 10 Crore Old Notes Seized From Private Car, Cash Belonged To A Bank Controlled By BJP MP ) The IT search was on Bhajiyawala's premises by the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seized Rs. 30 lakh, of which Rs. 18 lakh were in new currency notes and 2.5 kg gold from the premises of a tailor in Mohali and Chandigarh. (Also read: Amidst Demonetisation Chaos And Cash Crunch, Rs 3,600 Crore To Be Spent On Shivaji Memorial To Be Build Off Mumbai Coast ) More details awaited. (Also read: Chandigarh Tailor Caught With Black Money Worth 30 Lakhs In Cash And 2.5 Kilos Of Gold ) The case one of the many cases registered across the country. Tea sellers, tailors, labours and many more are being caught with lakhs and crores in their account. Are they innocent? We don't know! But there's some sorcery going on, for sure!

The Income Tax Department on Saturday raided the premises of city-based tea seller-turned-financier Kishore Bhaijyawala and seized cash worth approximately Rs 400 crores, including cash, bullion, jewellery and property papers from his possession.

(Also read: Rs 10 Crore Old Notes Seized From Private Car, Cash Belonged To A Bank Controlled By BJP MP)

Reuters/Representational Image

The IT search was on Bhajiyawala's premises by the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seized Rs. 30 lakh, of which Rs. 18 lakh were in new currency notes and 2.5 kg gold from the premises of a tailor in Mohali and Chandigarh.

(Also read: Amidst Demonetisation Chaos And Cash Crunch, Rs 3,600 Crore To Be Spent On Shivaji Memorial To Be Build Off Mumbai Coast)

NDTV

More details awaited.

(Also read: Chandigarh Tailor Caught With Black Money Worth 30 Lakhs In Cash And 2.5 Kilos Of Gold)

The case one of the many cases registered across the country. Tea sellers, tailors, labours and many more are being caught with lakhs and crores in their account.

Are they innocent? We don't know! But there's some sorcery going on, for sure!