Why the long face? Study finds horses use visual and physical cues to ask humans for help
Study finds horses use visual and physical cues to ask humans for help


When horses are faced with a problem they can’t solve, they turn to their human companions for help.

A new study has found that horses use both visual and tactile signals to get a person’s attention – and may even alter their behaviour depending on how well that person understands the situation.

The findings shed light on the high cognitive skills of horses, and their unique collaborative relationship with humans today, 6,000 years after they were first domesticated.

A new study has found that horses use both visual and tactile signals to get a person’s attention, as seen above – and may even alter their behaviour depending on how well that person understands the situation

WHAT THEY FOUND The researchers found that in situations where food was present, the horses stayed near the caretaker, and touched or pushed them for far longer than when there was no food. And when the caretaker hadn’t watched the food being hidden, the the horses gave more signals. The findings suggest horses can not only communicate their demands with humans, but can modify the ways in which they do so depending on the the person's knowledge of the situation.

In the study, published to the journal Animal Cognition, researchers from Kobe University put horses’ social cognitive skills to the test.

Eight horses from the university’s equestrian club were recruited to participate in the research with the cooperation of their student caretakers.

In one experiment, a researcher hid carrots in a bucket that was beyond the horse’s reach, and observed whether or not the animal would signal to the caretaker when they arrived.

And, they looked at how the horses went about doing this.

The researchers found that in situations where food was present, the horses stayed near the caretaker, and touched or pushed them for far longer than when there was no food.

Following this experiment, the team conducted another investigation to see if the horses’ behaviour changed if the caretaker knew about the hidden food.

When the caretaker hadn’t watched the food being hidden, the researchers found that the horses gave more signals.

Horses aren’t the only animals known to excel in their abilities to communicate with humans.

Eight horses from the university’s equestrian club were recruited to participate in the research with the cooperation of their student caretakers

Chimpanzees, and domestic animals like dogs are known to understand gestures and expressions.

It’s thought that horses’ high social cognitive skills may play a role in their current relationship with humans, but, little is known about the phenomenon.

The new research suggests horses can not only communicate their demands with humans, but can modify the ways in which they do so depending on the setting.

Moving forward, the team says comparisons with other species, like primates – who are evolutionarily close to humans – may reveal more about these traits in domestic animals.