Bob Costas pays tribute to Craig Sager
Bob Costas pays tribute to Craig Sager
{{ videoEntry.description }}  {{ videoEntry['nbcsports$'+videoEntry.nbcsports$secondaryDisplayField] }}   {{ videoEntry.nbcsports$genreDisplay }}

A clueless Saddam Hussein had already been cut off from his own government for years by the time he was captured by US military, it has been revealed.

The Iraqi dictator — who complained of cuts and bruises from his capture — is said to have been 'busy writing novels' and paid no attention to his military or how his followers ran the country.

'He was no longer running the government,' said ex-CIA analyst John Nixon, the first US interrogator to get his hands on Hussein.

Scroll down for video

Saddam Hussein (bottom) complained of cuts and bruises from his capture in 2003 as he was grilled by CIA analyst John Nixon (top), the first US interrogator to get to the dictator

Hussein (center) is said to have been 'busy writing novels' in his regime's final years, and paid no attention to his military or how his followers ran Iraq

'Saddam appeared to be as clueless about what was happening inside Iraq as his British and Americans enemies were,' Nixon added.

'He was inattentive to what his government was doing and had no real plan to prepare for the defense of Iraq.'

Nixon was tasked with identifying the dictator before the news of his capture could be released — which he did by an old bullet wound and two tribal tattoos.

He has told the story of Hussein's first moments in capture in the book 'Debriefing the President: The Interrogation of Saddam Hussein,' slated for release on December 27.

The deposed dictator was said to be arrogant at first but slowly revealed he knew little about what his regime was up to, as he spent his time away from governance

Nixon has told the story of Hussein's first moments in capture in the book 'Debriefing the President: The Interrogation of Saddam Hussein' (left)

Fresh off his capture, Hussein remained arrogant, perhaps not yet realizing he was done.

He stared Nixon down with 'such murderous' loathing, it was 'frightening even though he was under lock and key.'

'When was the last time you saw your sons alive?' Nixon asked Hussein.

'Who are you guys?' the deposed dictator replied. 'Are you military intelligence? Answer me. Identify yourselves.'

Fresh off his capture, Hussein (center) remained arrogant, perhaps not yet realizing he was done. He stared Nixon down with 'such murderous' loathing, it was 'frightening even though he was under lock and key'

Hussein's regime fell in 2003, the year he was captured. The dictator was executed three years later, by hanging, for crimes against humanity

Hussein remained adamant that he did not plot to kill President George H.W. Bush after the Persian Gulf War — and looked satisfied when he heard bombings outside, thinking his supporters may be winning the skirmish outside.

'You are going to fail,' Saddam said back then. 'You are going to find it is not so easy to govern Iraq.'

Hussein's regime fell in 2003, the year he was captured.