These Earbuds Give You Superhuman Hearing -- And Could Treat Autism & PTSD
These Earbuds Give You Superhuman Hearing -- And Could Treat Autism & PTSD
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Seth Porges       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The Doppler Labs Here One earbuds allow users to manipulate which audio frequencies pass through (photo: Doppler Labs) The market for consumer-friendly devices that amplify hearing could also grow in the near future. Last week, the FDA announced that individuals with mild-to-moderate hearing loss might soon be able to purchase hearing devices without a medical waiver, while the Over-the-Counter Hearing Aid Act of 2016 (which is currently making its way through Congress) could also make some hearing aid-type devices available on a non-prescription basis. And on Tuesday, Doppler Labs announced that it is partnering with launch the "#HereTogether" campaign, aimed at pushing awareness of issues such as access to hearing devices and the developement of related technologies.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

World Biggest Space Telescope Is Ready

Sometimes, products are good for a whole lot more than it seems at first.

When I first tried the Doppler Labs Here Active Listening earbuds, they were presented to me as a way to make live music more interesting. The tiny, wireless earbuds essentially suck up the sounds of the outside world and manipulate them before allowing them to pass through to users' eardrums. An accompanying app allows users to add fun effects to sounds, with filters going by names such as “Psychadelic,” “8-Track”, and “Carnegie Hall.”

That’s all fun enough, but after playing with Here Active Listenings a bit, I soon realized that these things were potentially far more interesting than they first seemed, with applications that go far beyond making concerts trippier. The key here is that these earbuds have the ability to turn the volume of the outside world up or down. This allows them to act as either a spy-gadget type device that endows users with super-powered hearing, or a discreet noise-cancelling earpiece for dimming dins.

More impressively, they give users the ability to specifically tune which frequencies they actually hear, with the app allowing users to turn some frequencies up and others down. For most people, this is a kinda neat trick, but if you have an Auditory Processing Disorder (or APD), where certain types of sounds might come off as either uncomfortably loud or impossible-to-hear quiet, this is a game-changer that I believe could have a real impact on real lives.

Lets put it this way: If you have an APD, the sounds of the outside world that most people are able to shrug off can be downright overwhelming to the point where leaving a very quiet space is physically and emotionally painful. If you’ve ever seen an autistic kid (autism comes with a very high instance of APD) out in public with giant noise-blocking headphones on, this is what they are fighting against. The Here Active Listenings are portable, discreet, and offer control over what sounds are filtered out, potentially allowing people with APDs to compensate for whatever frequencies their specific condition happens to mute or amplify.

“We put this out as a live-music product designed to basically remix your world, but soon realized people were using it for a whole lot of other purposes,” says Doppler Labs CEO Noah Kraft. “There are those using it to deal with noisy commutes or open-office environments, but also people who reached out to us because they believe it may have therapeutic or research purposes."

Kraft cites autism advocacy organizations and the military as two types of groups that have contacted his company. It’s not hard to see why the military may be interested in this technology. Isolating sounds such as spoken orders on a noisy battlefield—and doing it in such a way that also protects solders’ hearing—is a huge technical challenge. To this effect, the military typically relies on devices known as Tactical Communications and Protective Equipment (or TCAPS). But (as described in an excellent 99% Invisible podcast episode on this topic), over-ear TCAPS are often so hot and sweaty, that soldiers remove them. They are also very expensive, with prices that stretch up to the thousands. While Dopplers’ earbuds aren’t designed for or tested on the battlefield, it’s not hard to see how a tiny in-ear device that costs hundreds instead of thousands of dollars could be of use here.

There are also potential applications for Doppler’s technology for soldiers who come home. “One of the biggest triggers of PTSD is noise,” Kraft says. “Our core function is eliminating noise, so you can see there's potential there to give people, not only practical tools, but also a psychological out to say: ‘I have this button as a safeguard. If it does get too loud, I don't have to just walk out. I can just hit a button and it goes away.’”

Kraft describes the Hear Active Listening product as a limited-production “concept” designed to show off what his company’s technology can do. The mass-market product (available for pre-order now) is called the Here One. This updated version will cost $299 and feature enhanced audio-manipulation features, as well as the ability to serve as wireless earbuds that can stream music over Bluetooth.

The market for consumer-friendly devices that amplify hearing could also grow in the near future. Last week, the FDA announced that individuals with mild-to-moderate hearing loss might soon be able to purchase hearing devices without a medical waiver, while the Over-the-Counter Hearing Aid Act of 2016 (which is currently making its way through Congress) could also make some hearing aid-type devices available on a non-prescription basis. And on Tuesday, Doppler Labs announced that it is partnering with the social action platform Global Citizen to launch the "#HereTogether" campaign, aimed at pushing awareness of issues such as access to hearing devices and the developement of related technologies.

Speaking to Kraft, I can also imagine a future in which the Doppler app allows users to download specific audio filters that are designed for individual therapeutic purposes. Right now, users can select filters to nix the sounds of open offices or subway cars, but imagine also being able to tap into one for “PTSD” or “Autism”. For some users, this device will be about super-human hearing. For others, it might radically change their ability to cope with an otherwise-overwhelming world.