Diane Abbott refuses to say if she will swear an oath of allegiance to the Queen when she joins Privy Council
Diane Abbott refuses to say if she will swear an oath of allegiance to the Queen when she joins Privy Council
eft wing Labour frontbencher Diane Abbott has refused to say if she will swear allegiance to the Queen when she is made a member of the Privy Council in the new year. The Cabinet Office will say on Monday that Ms Abbott, the shadow home secretary is to join the Privy Council and swear allegiance to the Queen. She will be accompanied by Emily Thornberry, the shadow foreign secretary, who is a former barrister and the wife of a High Court judge. Both politicians are expected to be formally sworn as members in the new year, most likely the second week of February, allowing them to style themselves as "Right Honourable". The status will allow Ms Abbott as shadow home affairs spokesman to be briefed on sensitive state secrets. However it comes after she co-authored a pamphlet which backed the “dismantling” of the monarchy. s Abbott declined to say on if she will “say you will be a loyal and faithful servant” to the Queen “with her fingers crossed” when she joins. She told the Murnaghan programme: “The proceedings of the Privy Council are meant to be private so I can’t comment on whether I am going to join it and I can’t comment on what I will do.” Asked if she were “in favour of the UK having a monarchy”, she said: “I think you will find that – if I did say that – that was 30 years ago. “The British people have huge respect for the Queen and I am in favour of having a monarchy.” Ms Thornberry’s spokesman told that she would both kneel and kiss the Queen’s ring. “Emily will do all of that,” he said. There was controversy last year when Buckingham Palace made allowances to allow Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader and anti-Monarchist, to join the Privy Council and not have to kneel before the Queen. In October last year Mr Corbyn was accused of snubbing the Queen by refusing to be sworn into the Privy Council by going on a short break to Scotland rather than meeting the Queen for the ceremony. He finally joined weeks later.

Left wing Labour frontbencher Diane Abbott has refused to say if she will swear allegiance to the Queen when she is made a member of the Privy Council in the new year.

The Cabinet Office will say on Monday that Ms Abbott, the shadow home secretary is to join the Privy Council and swear allegiance to the Queen.

She will be accompanied by Emily Thornberry, the shadow foreign secretary, who is a former barrister and the wife of a High Court judge.

Both politicians are expected to be formally sworn as members in the new year, most likely the second week of February, allowing them to style themselves as "Right Honourable".

The status will allow Ms Abbott as shadow home affairs spokesman to be briefed on sensitive state secrets.

However it comes after she co-authored a pamphlet which backed the “dismantling” of the monarchy.