Winter Storm Socks Midwest, East, Spawning Accidents, Deaths
Winter Storm Socks Midwest, East, Spawning Accidents, Deaths
Shares                A winter storm of snow, freezing rain and bone-chilling temperatures socked the nation's mid-section and East Coast on Saturday, causing hundreds of accidents on icy roads and putting a crimp on Christmas shopping. At least nine deaths were blamed on the slick roads and authorities were investigating a few other traffic fatalities as possibly weather-related. Perhaps the biggest accident happened in Baltimore, when a tanker carrying gasoline skidded off a highway and exploded, authorities said. Two people died in the nearly 70-vehicle pileup on Interstate 95, authorities said. Hospital officials said nearly two dozen people were treated for injuries including broken bones and head trauma. Baltimore City Fire Chief Roman Clark said it was too early to determine the cause of the crash. It was unclear whether the pileup started before the tanker crash or was caused by it. The northbound lanes of I-95 were closed while crews cleaned up the mess. Winter weather advisories were posted from Denver to Bangor, Maine. Airports reported hundreds of flight delays or cancellations, interstates and toll roads reduced speed limits and authorities urged drivers to use extreme caution. The nasty weather put a damper on holiday plans for Luke Perez, who was hoping to make it home to Los Angeles on Saturday for a family party. Perez's flight out of D.C., where he is in graduate school, was canceled, so he said he's going to try again Sunday or Monday. "My family has a Christmas party ... and I was hoping to make it to that tonight, but that's not going to happen anymore," the 23-year-old said. There were dozens of crashes in Indiana — two of them involving fatalities — due to freezing rain and ice, officials said. It was not immediately clear how many people were killed. The roads were so slick that authorities had to move motorists stranded on an overpass with a ladder. In Ohio, a Columbus woman died Saturday when her car skidded off a slick road, authorities said. In another accident in Baltimore, six people were taken to the hospital after a crash on I-695 involving 15 to 20 vehicles, Baltimore County tweeted. In Nebraska , Douglas County Sheriff's deputies said one person was killed Friday night when his car slid off an icy road north of Omaha, hit a tree and burst into flames. Temperatures plummeted and people braced for the cold. Temperatures in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were expected to drop to minus-20 degrees overnight. People were advised to stay indoors for the weekend. The low temperature was expected to reach 4 degrees in Chicago on Sunday. Portions of six states, from Missouri to Mississippi, were under the threat of tornadoes or severe thunderstorms. In Virginia, a Fairfax County fire truck slid off an icy road while responding to a crash, local news media reported. No one was injured. Meanwhile, more than three dozen crashes and a fatality were reported in the northern part of the state, authorities said. Police said a man was found dead on the side of I-495, about a mile from a 23-vehicle crash. It appears the man was involved in the crash and had walked away from disabled vehicle. It wasn't immediately clear how the man died. At least three highway deaths Friday in Missouri are being blamed on icy conditions. The Missouri State Highway Patrol crash reports ay a 13-year-old girl died from injuries suffered in an accident when a tractor-trailer lost control on ice on Interstate 44, striking a Jeep Renegade driven by the girl's mother. Reports say two men, ages 72 and 56, died in separate accidents when the vehicles they were in went out of control on ice. In Colorado, up to a foot of snow fell in places, snarling traffic. Even weather-hardened locals apparently had trouble driving. "I worked for the fire department for 45 years, and we used to call this highway hockey because people keep bumping into each other," said Kevin Sweeney, of Brighton, a town about 20 miles northeast of Denver. "I think it's that first big snow thing." In North Carolina, police and emergency workers reported more than 100 crashes overnight in Raleigh and Charlotte as the drizzle combined with temperatures below freezing to create dangerous icy patches. Charlotte police reported two people killed in separate fatal crashes early Saturday, although investigators were still trying to figure out if ice caused the wrecks. ———— Associated Press writer Steven K. Paulson in Denver contributed to this report. ——— Follow Alanna Durkin Richer on Twitter at twitter.com/aedurkinricher. Her work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/journalist/alanna-durkin-richer . Shares                  Winter Storm Socks Midwest, East, Spawning Accidents, Deaths   What to Know About Today's Electoral College Vote   Michael Moore: I Will Pay Faithless Electors' State Fines   Thousands Evacuated From Aleppo as UN Votes to Monitor the Area   Gov-Elect: North Carolina Will Repeal LGBT Law on Tuesday   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Trump to Nominate Florida Panthers Owner for Army Secretary   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Because of Severe Weather   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   Ancient Human Ancestor Was One Tall Dude, His Footprints Say   Amazon Completes 1st Drone Delivery   Unknown Do-Gooder Pays for All Christmas Trees in Lot, Sparks Free Tree Swap   Home Depot Employee Replaces Girl's Lost Doll   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Trump Action on Health Care Could Cost Planned Parenthood   Bill Cast as Christie Attack on Newspapers Is Set for Vote   Gunmen Kill 10, Including Canadian, in Attacks on Police   Zsa Zsa Gabor Dies at 99   Celebrities Pay Their Respects to the Late Zsa Zsa Gabor   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   Farrakhan Sees a New Opening for Black Separatist Message   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Marion Cotillard on 'Assassin's Creed' and Her Holiday Traditions   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

A winter storm of snow, freezing rain and bone-chilling temperatures socked the nation's mid-section and East Coast on Saturday, causing hundreds of accidents on icy roads and putting a crimp on Christmas shopping.

At least nine deaths were blamed on the slick roads and authorities were investigating a few other traffic fatalities as possibly weather-related. Perhaps the biggest accident happened in Baltimore, when a tanker carrying gasoline skidded off a highway and exploded, authorities said.

Two people died in the nearly 70-vehicle pileup on Interstate 95, authorities said. Hospital officials said nearly two dozen people were treated for injuries including broken bones and head trauma.

Baltimore City Fire Chief Roman Clark said it was too early to determine the cause of the crash.

It was unclear whether the pileup started before the tanker crash or was caused by it. The northbound lanes of I-95 were closed while crews cleaned up the mess.

Winter weather advisories were posted from Denver to Bangor, Maine. Airports reported hundreds of flight delays or cancellations, interstates and toll roads reduced speed limits and authorities urged drivers to use extreme caution.

The nasty weather put a damper on holiday plans for Luke Perez, who was hoping to make it home to Los Angeles on Saturday for a family party. Perez's flight out of D.C., where he is in graduate school, was canceled, so he said he's going to try again Sunday or Monday.

"My family has a Christmas party ... and I was hoping to make it to that tonight, but that's not going to happen anymore," the 23-year-old said.

There were dozens of crashes in Indiana — two of them involving fatalities — due to freezing rain and ice, officials said. It was not immediately clear how many people were killed. The roads were so slick that authorities had to move motorists stranded on an overpass with a ladder.

In Ohio, a Columbus woman died Saturday when her car skidded off a slick road, authorities said. In another accident in Baltimore, six people were taken to the hospital after a crash on I-695 involving 15 to 20 vehicles, Baltimore County tweeted. In Nebraska, Douglas County Sheriff's deputies said one person was killed Friday night when his car slid off an icy road north of Omaha, hit a tree and burst into flames.

Temperatures plummeted and people braced for the cold. Temperatures in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were expected to drop to minus-20 degrees overnight. People were advised to stay indoors for the weekend. The low temperature was expected to reach 4 degrees in Chicago on Sunday.

Portions of six states, from Missouri to Mississippi, were under the threat of tornadoes or severe thunderstorms.

In Virginia, a Fairfax County fire truck slid off an icy road while responding to a crash, local news media reported. No one was injured.

Meanwhile, more than three dozen crashes and a fatality were reported in the northern part of the state, authorities said. Police said a man was found dead on the side of I-495, about a mile from a 23-vehicle crash. It appears the man was involved in the crash and had walked away from disabled vehicle. It wasn't immediately clear how the man died.

At least three highway deaths Friday in Missouri are being blamed on icy conditions. The Missouri State Highway Patrol crash reports ay a 13-year-old girl died from injuries suffered in an accident when a tractor-trailer lost control on ice on Interstate 44, striking a Jeep Renegade driven by the girl's mother. Reports say two men, ages 72 and 56, died in separate accidents when the vehicles they were in went out of control on ice.

In Colorado, up to a foot of snow fell in places, snarling traffic. Even weather-hardened locals apparently had trouble driving.

"I worked for the fire department for 45 years, and we used to call this highway hockey because people keep bumping into each other," said Kevin Sweeney, of Brighton, a town about 20 miles northeast of Denver. "I think it's that first big snow thing."

In North Carolina, police and emergency workers reported more than 100 crashes overnight in Raleigh and Charlotte as the drizzle combined with temperatures below freezing to create dangerous icy patches.

Charlotte police reported two people killed in separate fatal crashes early Saturday, although investigators were still trying to figure out if ice caused the wrecks.

————

Associated Press writer Steven K. Paulson in Denver contributed to this report.

———

Follow Alanna Durkin Richer on Twitter at twitter.com/aedurkinricher. Her work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/journalist/alanna-durkin-richer .