Writer trapped in the last rebel enclave of Aleppo gives harrowing account
Writer trapped Aleppo gives a harrowing account of 'evacuation'


Award-winning Channel 4 News journalist Waad al-Kateab, her doctor husband Handra and their 11-month-old daughter are among up to 40,000 people still trapped inside the ever-shrinking enclave of eastern Aleppo, where rebels are holding out against the forces of the Syrian regime and its Russian and Iranian allies.

They are holed up in the besieged district’s last functioning hospital along with a handful of other medical staff, a few dozen activists and dozens of the injured, many of whom lie sprawled across the floor in an extremely perilous state, some slowly dying.

Waad – who is seven months pregnant with her second child – and her neighbours have endured months of artillery shells and air strikes in the rebel-held sector and are desperate to escape.

Scroll down for video

Up to 40,000 people, including Channel 4 News journalist Waad al-Kateab, her husband and their 11-month-old daughter, are still trapped in Aleppo amid reports of civilians being taken off a convoy of buses headed for safety, pictured, and instead executed

Last week, she provided a searing eyewitness account of the brutal last days of the battle for Aleppo.

Here, compiled from her messages and reports, we chronicle the harrowing, tumultuous events from the past week, seen through her eyes.

She details how hope has turned to despair, amid reports of civilians being hauled off a convoy of buses taking refugees to safety and executed by Syrian and allied militia.

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11

The rebels claimed to have halted the Syrian government’s advance into East Aleppo – even as artillery shells and Russian air strikes continued to rain down.

A spokesman for the White Helmet civil rescue force described the bombardment as ‘unreal’.

Waad says: ‘The days look like each other. All the things which sustain life – food, fuel and medicine – have been declining day by day.

'There is no space left in the hospital, with blood all over the floors and walls, and no empty beds. Even the nursery room has been used as space for the wounded.’

Much of Aleppo is in ruins, pictured, after four years of explosive battles between President Bashar al-Assad's national forces and Syrian rebels

MONDAY

The Syrian Army said that the battle for Aleppo was in its final phase.

A senior Syrian general claimed the rebel fighters did not have much time and needed to ‘surrender or die’.

‘There is heavy shelling around the hospital, mortars are flying. I am waiting for my husband to come back.

'The situation is that there are still six neighbourhoods being held by rebels.

'The regime captured many areas, so the situation is about negotiation, we are told, between the rebels, regime and the Russians.

'No one talks any more about aid convoys coming in to break the siege – only of us having to leave our home.’

Rebel fighters, pictured, agreed a deal with national forces to have a ceasefire to allow for mass evacuation after the UN became involved

TUESDAY

The UN reported mass executions of women and children were taking place.

Foreign Office Minister Tobias Ellwood said the West had ‘blinked’ in 2013 and missed an opportunity to bring Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to account.

Urgent plans were drawn up by the UN to evacuate civilians and fighters.

‘There is some news – the first bus is due to leave. A rebel told us that the regime is serious – so maybe the first bus will leave soon.

'The injured who are due to leave are at this hospital, so I plan to travel with them to the crossing point to film it.

'We know that the regime is too close to us and there will be a big massacre if it takes our area.

Women and children, pictured, were reported to be looking afraid as preparations for evacuation were under way

'A lot of the injured in the last days were attacked when they made a group to go together to government areas.

'I’ve seen a lot of children, a lot of women, they were so afraid. They were surprised because they were saying: “We are going to a regime area, why do they kill us?”

'I don’t want to go out from the city. It’s my Aleppo, it’s my lovely city. Maybe it’s just some faith in our hearts to be strong.

'Maybe this disaster will be finished and we’ll be OK.’

WEDNESDAY

As an uneasy truce held, the world watched as a huge fleet of green buses sent to rescue thousands of civilians stood empty as Iranian-backed militiamen prevented people boarding them.

After a stand-off of several hours, the shooting and shelling began again, with each side blaming the other, and hopes for peace shattered.

‘We waited to find out where the crossing point would be. The Arab Red Crescent were meant to let people here know.

'When we were told the location, we went to the front line/crossing area to discover what was going on.

'The first evacuation was to be civilians, injured ones I’m told. We waited for about two to three hours for the crossing to happen – we waited but it didn’t happen.

'They then said the Russians, Iranians and Syrian government would let people leave a few hours later. So we went home.

Thousands of rebel fighters and Aleppo civilians are still trapped within the city as an uneasy truce between the two sides struggles to stay in place

'The hospital is full. We need water. We are cooking now because we didn’t eat all day.

'It’s midnight, and there’s heavy shelling. Someone from the White Helmets was here in the hospital and I went with him to the site of an attack to the building where they were searching for people.

'I think it might be the last time I film with the White Helmets before we leave the city.

'The Red Crescent will be travelling with the injured people leaving, so I hope they’ll be OK. There are no doctors with them. I hope everything will be OK.’

THURSDAY

Hopes of a breakthrough. The buses lined up again, and this time we're allowed to transport thousands from Aleppo.

But Waad filmed a convoy of cars and ambulances carrying the injured which was itself fired upon. Despite these setbacks, UN sources estimated 8,000 people were brought out.

‘The cars were full of civilians and injured. They were to go to al-Ramousa where the Red Arab Crescent was waiting for them. A lot of people were waiting for permission to leave.

'We were there when the regime forces attacked – waiting for the Red Crescent to take the injured and their families out but the injured are now back at the hospital. Some have bad injuries.’

[Later that day]: ‘We are now planning on leaving the city. I’m packing and we’ll go in the morning.’

Figures have been spotted carrying their belongings through the rubble as they head towards evacuation points

FRIDAY

The last convoy that attempted to leave with around 400 people in 20 vehicles passed through a Russian checkpoint before being stopped by Shia militia fighters with tanks.

Accompanying representatives of The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) were apparently forced to leave. Young men of fighting age were picked out from the convoy, buses were searched and mobile phones, valuables and documents confiscated.

There were unconfirmed reports that up to three of the men pulled from the buses were killed on the spot, and that the pregnant wife of one of those who was killed was dragged away and arrested after putting up ‘resistance’.

After more than four hours, the buses were sent back to eastern Aleppo.

‘Aleppo is now a synonym for hell,’ UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in New York, urging a resumption of the evacuation.

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon told the world 'Aleppo is a synonym for hell'

‘We were going to leave this morning, but then someone told us not to because of an incident at the crossing.

'We had seen some cars leaving to go to the crossing but then regime forces attacked them and arrested a lot of people.

'We were planning to go, but the injured started arriving in the hospital and they were so bad so we stayed to treat them.

'But when we saw so many injuries we realised something terrible had happened; then we heard about the incident at the crossing point.

'We heard that the deal was broken because of a problem between Russian and Iranian forces.

The huge fleet of green government buses, pictured, have been taking civilians away but the departures stopped on Friday after more fighting broke out

'I just came back from the front line crossing point where the injured people were and one person was dead.

'When people tried to leave Aleppo, Syrian forces and militias started to attack the buses.

'They killed people, and arrested a lot of people. I heard accounts from people who came from there to the hospital and they told me what happened.

'Now it seems there is no deal. There’s still a ceasefire but no safe way to get out of the city.

'I don’t know if we will leave because we don’t trust that it will be safe. Many people were arrested in the so-called safe corridor, so how can we leave?

'How can they talk about safe corridors and then they do that? The trust has run out.’

YESTERDAY

Another ceasefire is brokered, raising hopes that the evacuation would resume.

But last night, hours after the announcement, aid agencies were still waiting for the operation to start.

‘We are waiting to hear about this new deal. We are hoping to leave, but there are still lots of injured people arriving in the hospital.’

Now families and children remain in limbo as they face an anxious wait to see if they can leave

'They've seen and experienced too much': Experts say hundreds of youngsters trapped in Aleppo have 'shell shock' after months of air strikes and chemical weapons attacks

Hundreds of vulnerable children remained trapped in Aleppo last night as the suspension of evacuation convoys from the war-torn city continued.

According to medical experts, the youngsters are severely traumatised and malnourished after spending months in the last rebel-held enclave of the city, which has been devastated by air strikes and chemical weapons attacks.

One British expert described children as having the so-called ‘thousand-yard stare’ – which is normally seen in combat veterans – because they have been exposed to so much violence and trauma.

The children are expected to spend another night in freezing temperatures in eastern Aleppo along with thousands of elderly civilians and casualties of the Syrian regime’s relentless bombing campaign.

The first child from Aleppo to make it to safety, pictured, was described as having a 'thousand-yard' stare by British Army officer Colonel Hamish de Bretton-Gordon

Meanwhile, talks were ongoing between rebel leaders and Syrian Army chiefs in a bid to resume the evacuations in Aleppo and for similar programmes to start in the neighbouring province of Idlib.

A deal depends on a ceasefire between Syrian rebels and President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.

The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said last night it was aware that a new agreement could be reached and called on all parties on the ground to ‘do their utmost to end this limbo’.

The convoys taking the most vulnerable children from Aleppo were suspended on Friday after reports of shootings at a crossing point into the enclave.

Videos posted online showed men, women and children running for their lives.

Last night, former British Army officer Colonel Hamish de Bretton-Gordon, an expert on Syria, said 75 per cent of Syrian children are suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) as a result of their exposure to the conflict.

He said: ‘These children have been touching death for the last four weeks, living in shelters. In 17 out of the last 21 days, the regime has dropped chlorine barrel bombs.

‘Psychologically they’re not in a good place. Three out of four have PTSD and in 50 per cent of these cases they are incontinent. The children need hope, they need to be loved and cajoled, and to be warm.’

Around 500 children evacuated from Aleppo last week have arrived at Bab Al Hawa hospital two miles from Syria’s border with Turkey.

Turkish fighter jets are patrolling the airspace over the facility to prevent any attacks.

Colonel de Bretton-Gordon said the rescued children reminded him of soldiers who had spent too long on the front line.

Around 500 children evacuated from Aleppo last week have arrived at Bab Al Hawa hospital two miles from Syria’s border with Turkey

‘I was a soldier for 23 years and I thought I had seen every evil that could be done on a battlefield,’ he added.

‘But what has happened in Aleppo over the last few weeks surmounts that by a huge factor.

‘And the children have gone through that, they’ve seen and experienced too much. I saw a picture of an injured boy by an ambulance.

'He had what we call in the military a thousand-yard stare; his eyes had lost focus, he looked empty and done in.

‘I’ve been assured this boy is at Bab Al Hawa now. I just hope he has had some sleep and some colour has come back to his eyes.

'He represents the children of Aleppo who we in the West have let down.’

Former Foreign Secretary David Miliband said the 2013 Commons vote against sending British troops to Syria in support of a US intervention had created a ‘vacuum’ in Western leadership and ‘sowed a great deal of confusion’.