Photograph of six bikini-clad friends on a beach goes viral for a very bizarre reason
Can YOU spot what's wrong with this image?


At a glance you would be forgiven for thinking that this is just a photo of six friends posing on a beach together.

However, look a little closer and eagle eyed readers may be able to spot that there is something very odd about the picture.

The photograph shared on Instagram appears to show six friends enjoying the sun on the beach.

Can you spot it? This photo has gone viral for a very funny reason but can you spot what it is?

Leaning toward the camera the mates appear to have all adopted a similar pose and are wearing matching black sunglasses.

But those with a keen eye may be able to spot that the photograph has been tampered with.

A social media user has photoshopped the face of a man in the background onto the six faces of the women.

Once you're aware of the edit to the picture it can seem blindingly obvious however plenty of Instagram users admit that they were stumped.

An optical illusion image of three women sitting on a park bench that's recently resurfaced online has been causing confusion

One user commented on the photo to say: 'Oh my f***ing God I can't breathe. Jesus Christ I almost fell'.

Another admitted: 'It took me 9 hours to figure it out'

This is not the first photo to baffle the Internet withe hidden details. Earlier this year a seemingly mundane photo of three women sitting on a park bench left the internet in a state of confusion.

At first glance the photo appears to show the trio pausing for a sit down during a sunny stroll.

But there's something wrong with the image that only become obvious on closer inspection.

A photo of a bed with a part of the duvet circled in red has been confusing people online - with many not realising that the picture is an optical illusion

The photo, which was originally shared on Imgur, has recently resurfaced online to cause confusion.

On close inspection, there appears to be no seat on the bench and the women are hovering mid air.

The most likely explanation is that the bench features smaller pull out seats.

The snap is the latest in a long line of optical illusion photos to leave people baffled.

A photo of a bed with a part of the duvet circled in red went viral this week - with many not realising that the picture is really an optical illusion.

At first glance this picture looks like any normal selfie you might see. However, if you look closer you will see that something is not quite right

The woman in the image actually has six fingers, instead of the usual five

Within the red ring there's a section of a white duvet covered in a black floral pattern, as well as part of the carpet.

However, people who have spotted the image - which has been shared on Reddit - are struggling to work out what the circle signifies.

The image was posted by Imgur user Idon'tevenknowwhat'sgoingon yesterday, and has received more than 63,500 views.

Optical illusions are increasingly popular online. At first glance the below picture looks like a regular selfie of a woman striking a seductive pose on her bed.

However, if you look closer you will see that something is not quite right with the black and white image.

Can you spot the phone? The image has been shared nearly 16,000 times and reached 120,000 reactions

Confused? The handheld device lies just beside the right side table leg at the top of the photo

The shot has been driving the web to distraction ever since it went viral, with puzzlers unable to figure out the oddity.

The image has recently resurfaced on Facebook after it first originated in 2003, when it was posted by Deviantart user Missmiserystock. It was titled 'Look-carefully'.

At closer inspection it is revealed that the woman actually has six fingers instead of five.

The subtle abnormality is likely to be a clever trick of Photoshop, designed to confuse.

The phone has a floral pattern which does not quite match the carpet but is still a devilishly hard spot

One internet user, Bogina, wrote: 'Hahaha thats insane it took me a while to catch it good job!' [sic]

But are your eyes sharp enough to solve this brain teaser driving the web crazy?

It is just the latest in a series of brain teasing images baffling the internet.

An image of a floral carpet, uploaded by Jeya May Cruz from Pasig, the Philippines, was shared nearly 16,000 times and reached 120,000 reactions.

Why? Because the photograph contains a camouflaged mobile phone that is devilishly hard to spot.

If you are struggling, the phone has a floral pattern which does not quite match the carpet.

Still confused? The device is just beside the right side table leg at the top of the photo.

It may seem a simple find, but it has left thousands bewildered.

Jeya captioned her image: 'Since I can't sleep, let's play a game. Look for the cellphone.'

She works as a sales representative at Dell, and studied Banking and Finance at Far Eastern University.

Sometimes the easiest-sounding brain teasers are the most difficult ones. And another puzzle to recently sweep the web certainly plays by those rules.

Scroll down for the reveal!

Created by a PlayBuzz user, this colour photo depicts a grey car seat with a mysterious object hidden on it that it's up to you to find

At first, the secret object is impossible to find. However, after a more detailed search you can spot a grey iPad lying flat on the back on the seat

Created by a PlayBuzz user, this colour photo depicts a grey car seat with a mysterious object hidden on it for you to find.

At first, the secret object is impossible to find.

However, after a more detailed search you can spot a grey iPad lying flat on the back on the seat.

The iPad is well-camouflaged because it's the same colour as the seat, with similar markings.