How to Tie a Scarf
How to Tie a Scarf
Three Stylish Ways to Tie a Scarf Cashmere, thin, chunky, plaid, crochet, or oversized—as many kinds of scarves there are in the world, there are as many opinions on how to tie them. (Well, there are a handful of ways to tie them.) And yes, there's a right way and wrong way.  There's a reason "How to Tie a Scarf" is one of the most-searched-for menswear queries on the 'net, and why the style team at Bloomberg gets asked this question all the time: Casually wrapping your scarf around your neck can lead to loose spots and frigid patches as air sneaks in, and it makes it very easy for the wind to knock it off your shoulders. Tying a scarf too tight is uncomfortable and unflattering. Toss one end over your shoulder, and you risk it looking silly as it falls every which way. If this whole tying a scarf thing is starting to sound like a the black-and-white intro to a bad infomercial, well … never again! There's an easier, better way to keep warm while keeping your winter style in order! Here are the three classics: The Loop This method is best used with a classic cashmere scarf or thick linen scarves in the spring Fold the scarf in half along the long side. Then fold it again, but this time from end to end. Throw the scarf around your neck, with a loop on one side. Take the two ends and put them through the loop, creating a slip-knot of sorts. Cinch it up tight enough to keep it in place, but with enough room to breathe comfortably. Boom!  The Wrap Try this one with chunky or blanket scarfs. Fold the scarf in along the long side. Throw it around the back of your neck, making sure that one side is much longer than the other. Take the short side and lay it diagonally around your chest. Wrap the longer side all the way around your neck, laying that end diagonally on top of the other. Button up your coat, and you’re ready to gallivant around the city with a warm neck and torso.  The Bib This is with a plaid or solid medium-sized scarf, and a more formal outfit. Fold scarf in half along the long side. Place the scarf around your neck and make sure both sides are at the same length. Cross one side of the scarf over the other, and then pull the first side up underneath the second to form a simple knot under your neck, like you are starting to tie a tie. Take the top part of the knot and open it up, fluffing it out to create a clean flat front. Button up your topcoat.

Cashmere, thin, chunky, plaid, crochet, or oversized—as many kinds of scarves there are in the world, there are as many opinions on how to tie them. (Well, there are a handful of ways to tie them.) And yes, there's a right way and wrong way.

Travel with us, drive with us, eat with us. Get our weekly Pursuits newsletter. Business Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day. You will now receive the Business newsletter Politics The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington. You will now receive the Politics newsletter Markets The most important market news of the day. So you can sleep an extra five minutes. You will now receive the Markets newsletter Technology Insights into what you'll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now. You will now receive the Technology newsletter Game Plan The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead. You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter There's a reason "How to Tie a Scarf" is one of the most-searched-for menswear queries on the 'net, and why the style team at Bloomberg gets asked this question all the time: Casually wrapping your scarf around your neck can lead to loose spots and frigid patches as air sneaks in, and it makes it very easy for the wind to knock it off your shoulders. Tying a scarf too tight is uncomfortable and unflattering. Toss one end over your shoulder, and you risk it looking silly as it falls every which way. If this whole tying a scarf thing is starting to sound like a the black-and-white intro to a bad infomercial, well … never again! There's an easier, better way to keep warm while keeping your winter style in order! Here are the three classics:

The Loop

This method is best used with a classic cashmere scarf or thick linen scarves in the spring

Fold the scarf in half along the long side. Then fold it again, but this time from end to end. Throw the scarf around your neck, with a loop on one side. Take the two ends and put them through the loop, creating a slip-knot of sorts. Cinch it up tight enough to keep it in place, but with enough room to breathe comfortably. Boom!

The Wrap

Try this one with chunky or blanket scarfs.

Fold the scarf in along the long side. Throw it around the back of your neck, making sure that one side is much longer than the other. Take the short side and lay it diagonally around your chest. Wrap the longer side all the way around your neck, laying that end diagonally on top of the other. Button up your coat, and you’re ready to gallivant around the city with a warm neck and torso.

The Bib

This is with a plaid or solid medium-sized scarf, and a more formal outfit.