The Apprentice 2016: Alana Spencer triumphs in the strongest final in years - review
The Apprentice 2016: Alana Spencer triumphs in the strongest final in years - review
o this was it. The big one. After 11 weeks of sweet-making, gin-distilling, space hedgehogs, singing mermaids and soap/soup confusion, the besuited boast-athon reached its showpiece final. The episode where the grumpy boss tweaks his catchphrase from “You’re fired!” to “You’re hired!”. For their climactic task, the last two candidates standing – cake-maker Alana Spencer and novelty gift merchant Courtney Wood – presented their proposed businesses to an audience of 200 industry bigwigs at London’s shiny City Hall, aka “the Glass Gonad”. So which one would be the business bridesmaid? And who would do enough to earn a £250,000 investment from their brand new business partner, Lord Sid James Of Sugarshire? Here are our talking points from episode 12… Alana had the winning recipe he’s hired. Yes, 24-year-old baker Alana Spencer - the youngest female in this year’s contest - emerged from the pack of 18 self-aggrandising suitcase-wheelers to clinch The Apprentice’s 12th series. She’s only the second woman to win in the last six years. Her prize? A 50/50 partnership with the grumpiness sector’s top Sid James lookalike. Alana certainly knew her sweet-toothed stuff but Lord Sugar needed convincing that her small business, currently run from a country kitchen in West Wales with her boyfriend as sole employee (sounds like a sitcom in the making), could be upscaled into a giant gourmet cake brand. lana called it Ridiculously Rich (we rather liked Oh My Cake), ran her team well and was brave enough to change her branding at the eleventh hour, realising she was her own unique selling point, hence hurriedly adding her signature to the logo and inserting herself into the TV ad. Soon everyone was scoffing her cakes approvingly, even Claude Littner – and his diet is usually restricted to the raw flesh of foolish interviewees. Maybe it was Alana’s name being a female version of the boss’ that swung it. Not to mention his surname being a key ingredient of her products. Or the fact that, as Alana said: “Ridiculously Rich could make us both ridiculously rich.” Good bake. Not a soggy bottom in sight. Sorry, wrong show. Heartbreak for Courtney but he could still succeed Courtney Wood’s company name of “Purple Whale” wasn’t as daft as it first appeared. Rival companies include Moonpig and Funky Pigeon, after all, while his strapline of “Small gifts, big impressions” worked well. He performed pretty impressively in this final, “keeping it cheeky” with heart-shaped ice cream scoops and a trophy-shaped baby beaker, “so toddlers can take a sip of success” – despite indecision, in-fighting on his team and getting in a tangle about merchandise rights from football clubs. It was also admirable how Courtney took criticism of his pitching style on the boyish chin, subjecting himself to cringe-making coaching techniques and showing a marked improvement in City Hall. However, the Dickensian Leo DiCaprio couldn’t quite persuade the Sugar daddy that he could design and sell novelty gifts in sufficient volume. Runner-up Courtney might still hit on a killer product and make the walnut-faced Spurs fan regret his decision. We wish him luck. Business plan clinched it ltimately, there wasn’t much to choose between the finalists– except a five-year age gap, perhaps giving the younger Alana more raw potential – so the decision came down to their business plans. Alana’s seemed more sustainable, scaleable and secure. People will always want cake and profit margins were mouth-wateringly high, whereas the novelty of gimmicky online gifts might wear off. Courtney’s proposal also hinged too much on his own creativity, coming up with a steady stream of sellable ideas in a crowded marketplace where hits get quickly copied. Alana promises steady growth. Courtney was more of a risk. Wonder if Lord Sugar’s US equivalent, some funny-haired bloke called Donald Trump , would have gambled? Strongest final for seven years ith both candidates performing strongly and pitching viable businesses, this was the tightest, tensest final in a long time. The toughest-to-call since Yasmina Siadatan vs Kate Walsh in 2009, in fact. Before that, there was Tim Campbell vs Saira Khan and Michelle Dewberry vs Ruth Badger. Halycon days. The rest have been relatively one-sided. Fired candidates made a welcome return ecause the finalists needed assistance – but mainly just for our entertainment – former contenders returned to help. Or, at times, hinder. The “picking of teams” had an air of a school PE lesson and it was noticeable that Alana plumped for a female-dominated team (with hapless Harry Enfield character Oliver Nohl-Oser, aka “Sausage Olly”, as the sole male), while Courtney did the reverse – his crew were all-male, bar gibbering Jessica “Jim Carrey” Cunningham. Alana’s girl squad were more supportive than Courtney’s blokes. While Francis and Grainne bit their lips, stay positive and get behind their leader, the ego-driven boys thought that “challenging” Courtney and arguing among themselves was the way to go. Shouty Paul Sullivan and pushy Sofiane Khelfa soon slipped back into their bickering ways. o sign of bow-tied Mukai Noiri, silver fox Dillon St Paul, husky JD O’Brien, smooth Samuel Boateng or grumpy Trishna Thakrar. Too busy licking their wounds and oiling their suitcase wheels, presumably. Good to see that self-proclaimed branding queen Rebecca “not a t--t” Jeffrey still did that wide-mouthed frog frown when her ideas were rejected, though. Does Alana use air freshener on her hair? While Courtney went for a quick “splash ’n’ dash” after their 6am wake-up call, Alana brushed her teeth and plumped up her blonde mane. Just me who noticed not one but two cans of Air Wick on her dressing table? Perhaps that’s the secret to those luxuriant lionine locks. Karren Brady stole boss’ thunder again Lord Sugar’s right-hand woman Karren Brady has relaxed and really grown into her role this series. She’s developed a trademark narrowing of the eyes and disbelieving shake of her big hair when teams are being inept. She’s increasingly waspish in the boardroom, cutting candidates down to size with harsh-but-fair barbs. he said of Courtney’s Purple Whale brand: “At one point, we had Pocket Pleasures, which conjured up a whole different business”, before laughing uproariously at Karthik’s casual reference to his “acting skills”. Karren has not only put Claude Littner in the shade – the bald assassin only comes into his own during the interview round – but the boss too. Karren Brady: formidable lady. Pitches were nerve-racking to watch Making the finalists totter down that long walkway at City Hall was an enjoyably cruel touch - like a green mile to the gallows. I wonder if former Mayor Boris Jonson used to cycle down it, hair fluttering in the air-conditioned breeze. owever, the pair coped admirably. They went into their pitches with a reputation for lacking presence but both raised their games: Courtney thanks to coaching (and Karthik Nagesan cuddling him around the waist), Alana due to her knowing her stuff and sheer passion for her own product. After nervous starts, both performed solidly. By the end, I was almost willing Sir Alanstrad to invest in both businesses. Although I suppose that would defeat the point of the last 11 weeks and leave viewers feeling swizzed. Boardroom was more like a banter suite The Apprentice boardroom is usually a place for backstabbing and blame-shifting. During this final, it was a much jollier place. The candidates were all grins and chuckles. Everyone laughed with (OK, at) Karthik. ven Lord Grumpy of Clapton joined in, telling glowering bouncer-alike Paul Sullivan “We don’t charge for smiling in here” and riffing on Alana being “my cross-dressing alter ego” (is that strictly PC?). Did the boss also have a sly pop at The Big K’s monobrow by ostentatiously scratching between his eyes? Cheeky. Especially when Karthik’s about to set up a billion dollar unicorn company with just a laptop. Next series could be completely different So that’s it for another year. Will The Apprentice be back for a thirteenth run next autumn? Well, this wasn’t a vintage series. Amid falling ratings and rumours of a move to another channel (the Bake Off effect, let’s call it), the show’s future isn’t certain. Lord Sugar also turns 70 soon, so could be considering retirement. But whatever happens: thank you for the opportunity.

Alana called it Ridiculously Rich (we rather liked Oh My Cake), ran her team well and was brave enough to change her branding at the eleventh hour, realising she was her own unique selling point, hence hurriedly adding her signature to the logo and inserting herself into the TV ad. Soon everyone was scoffing her cakes approvingly, even Claude Littner – and his diet is usually restricted to the raw flesh of foolish interviewees.

Maybe it was Alana’s name being a female version of the boss’ that swung it. Not to mention his surname being a key ingredient of her products. Or the fact that, as Alana said: “Ridiculously Rich could make us both ridiculously rich.” Good bake. Not a soggy bottom in sight. Sorry, wrong show.

Heartbreak for Courtney but he could still succeed

Courtney Wood’s company name of “Purple Whale” wasn’t as daft as it first appeared. Rival companies include Moonpig and Funky Pigeon, after all, while his strapline of “Small gifts, big impressions” worked well.

He performed pretty impressively in this final, “keeping it cheeky” with heart-shaped ice cream scoops and a trophy-shaped baby beaker, “so toddlers can take a sip of success” – despite indecision, in-fighting on his team and getting in a tangle about merchandise rights from football clubs. It was also admirable how Courtney took criticism of his pitching style on the boyish chin, subjecting himself to cringe-making coaching techniques and showing a marked improvement in City Hall.

However, the Dickensian Leo DiCaprio couldn’t quite persuade the Sugar daddy that he could design and sell novelty gifts in sufficient volume. Runner-up Courtney might still hit on a killer product and make the walnut-faced Spurs fan regret his decision. We wish him luck.