Here's how the White House staff pranked President Obama for the holidays
Here's how the White House staff pranked President Obama for the holidays
In the final days of President Barack Obama's presidency, his staffers had a bit of fun with the official White House holiday decorations. On Friday, White House Photographer Pete Souza shared a staffer's attempt to prank Obama with a set of decorative snowmen currently on display in the Rose Garden. SEE ALSO: The Obamas sent out their final White House Christmas card and Twitter is in love "We've been joking that we should move the snowmen a few feet closer to the Oval Office every day to see if anyone noticed," Souza shared on Instagram. "Then we realized the snowmen were too heavy to easily lift. But finally this morning before the President came to the office, some helpful staff—I won't say who—moved all the snowmen so each one was peeking through a different window into the Oval." Sometimes you gotta have fun. For the past three weeks, there have been four snowmen on display in the Rose Garden (see photo in earlier post). We've been joking that we should move the snowmen a few feet closer to the Oval Office every day to see if anyone noticed. Then we realized the snowmen were too heavy to easily lift. But finally this morning before the President came to the office, some helpful staff—I won't say who—moved all the snowmen so each one was peeking through a different window into the Oval. This photo was taken this afternoon as the President signed end-of-the-year bills. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Another snowman from yesterday. Yes he enjoyed the prank. See previous post for the backstory. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Naturally, Obama enjoyed the prank, as did the internet meme machine. WH staff has senioritis so badly https://t.co/a5v16ukh55 — Katie Silva (@ktsilva) December 17, 2016 Mr. President, don’t look now, but he’s doing it again. Obama: Joe, the disguise won’t work. We have to leave. Snowman: Joe who? I’m Snow! pic.twitter.com/0BLLFjYJ2g — Dianna E Anderson (@diannaeanderson) December 17, 2016 @WhiteHouse Too easy. pic.twitter.com/Ws14Odhno4 — Jonah Gadsby (@FJGadsby) December 17, 2016 Obama: Has anyone seen Joe? Biden: ... Obama: Just don't let him find the snowman costume. You remember last year. pic.twitter.com/no2kKJECan — The Dark Knight (@CityJohn) December 17, 2016 BIDEN: lol remember that movie Jack Frost OBAMA: yeah it was bad BIDEN: shit I already turned myself into a snowman OBAMA: that sucks pic.twitter.com/utcIYwh1Fr — Mike Tunison (@xmasape) December 17, 2016 It's a solid prank on the White House staff's part, as Obama admitted to earlier this month that the snowman decorations freak him out. "There's a whole kind of Chucky element to them," he joked. "They're a little creepy." BONUS: President Obama brings Medal of Freedom winners  to tears

In the final days of President Barack Obama's presidency, his staffers had a bit of fun with the official White House holiday decorations.

On Friday, White House Photographer Pete Souza shared a staffer's attempt to prank Obama with a set of decorative snowmen currently on display in the Rose Garden.

SEE ALSO: The Obamas sent out their final White House Christmas card and Twitter is in love

"We've been joking that we should move the snowmen a few feet closer to the Oval Office every day to see if anyone noticed," Souza shared on Instagram. "Then we realized the snowmen were too heavy to easily lift. But finally this morning before the President came to the office, some helpful staff—I won't say who—moved all the snowmen so each one was peeking through a different window into the Oval."

Another snowman from yesterday. Yes he enjoyed the prank. See previous post for the backstory. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Dec 17, 2016 at 9:25am PST

Naturally, Obama enjoyed the prank, as did the internet meme machine.

WH staff has senioritis so badly https://t.co/a5v16ukh55 — Katie Silva (@ktsilva) December 17, 2016

Mr. President, don’t look now, but he’s doing it again.

Obama: Joe, the disguise won’t work. We have to leave.

Snowman: Joe who? I’m Snow! pic.twitter.com/0BLLFjYJ2g — Dianna E Anderson (@diannaeanderson) December 17, 2016

Obama: Has anyone seen Joe?



Biden: ...



Obama: Just don't let him find the snowman costume. You remember last year. pic.twitter.com/no2kKJECan — The Dark Knight (@CityJohn) December 17, 2016

BIDEN: lol remember that movie Jack Frost

OBAMA: yeah it was bad

BIDEN: shit I already turned myself into a snowman

OBAMA: that sucks pic.twitter.com/utcIYwh1Fr — Mike Tunison (@xmasape) December 17, 2016

It's a solid prank on the White House staff's part, as Obama admitted to People earlier this month that the snowman decorations freak him out.

"There's a whole kind of Chucky element to them," he joked. "They're a little creepy."