Suicide bomber kills at least 40 soldiers in Yemen as they wait to collect salaries
Suicide bomber kills at least 40 soldiers in Yemen as they wait to collect salaries
suicide bomber killed at least 40 Yemeni soldiers in Aden on Sunday, the latest in a string of deadly bomb attacks against recruits in the war-torn country's second city. "The number of those killed has exceeded 40, with some 50 others wounded," Abdel Nasser al-Wali, head of the Aden health department, told AFP, adding that the death toll is likely to mount due to "critical cases". Medics had initially given a toll of 30 dead. Military officials and medics said many others were wounded in the attack, which targeted a crowd of soldiers gathered to collect their salaries near a base in north-east Aden. The attacker immersed himself among the soldiers crowding outside the house of Colonel Nasser Sarea, the head of special security forces in Aden, in Al-Arish district, near Al-Sawlaban base. Col Sarea said the bomber "took advantage of the gathering and detonated his explosives among them, killing 30 soldiers and wounding several others". Images from the blast scene showed blood stains and scattered shoes across the sandy ground. The attack comes eight days after a similar bombing at Al-Sawlaban, claimed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil), killed 48 soldiers and wounded 29 others. Yemeni authorities have for months pressed a campaign against jihadists who remain active in the south and east of the impoverished Arabian peninsula country. sil and Al-Qaeda, its jihadist rival, have taken advantage of a conflict between the government and Yemen's Huthi rebels, who control the capital Sana'a, to bolster their presence across much of the south. The two extremist groups have carried out a spate of attacks in Aden, Yemen's second city and headquarters of the internationally-recognised government whose forces retook the port city from the Huthis last year. But Al-Qaeda has distanced itself from the December 10 attack, claiming that it tends to avoid "the shedding of any Muslim blood" while focusing on fighting the "Americans and their allies". No group claimed immediate responsibility for Sunday's blast. Al-Qaeda has long been the dominant jihadist force in Yemen, located next to oil-flush Saudi Arabia and key shipping lanes, but experts say Isil is seeking to supplant its extremist rival. ashington regards Al-Qaeda's Yemen-based branch as its most dangerous and has kept up a long-running drone war against its commanders. In August an Isil militant rammed his explosives-laden car into an army recruiting centre in Aden, killing 71 people in the deadliest jihadist attack on the city in over a year. A Saudi-led coalition has since March 2015 supported loyalist forces fighting the Huthis. The Arab coalition intervened after Huthi rebels allied with troops loyal to Ali Abdullah Saleh, Yemen's former president, seized Sana'a and overran other parts of the country. But the coalition later turned its firepower also at Sunni jihadists, supporting forces loyal to president Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi in an effort to flush extremists out of south Yemen. The Yemen war has killed more than 7,000 people , about half of them civilians.

A suicide bomber killed at least 40 Yemeni soldiers in Aden on Sunday, the latest in a string of deadly bomb attacks against recruits in the war-torn country's second city.

"The number of those killed has exceeded 40, with some 50 others wounded," Abdel Nasser al-Wali, head of the Aden health department, told AFP, adding that the death toll is likely to mount due to "critical cases". Medics had initially given a toll of 30 dead.

Military officials and medics said many others were wounded in the attack, which targeted a crowd of soldiers gathered to collect their salaries near a base in north-east Aden.

The attacker immersed himself among the soldiers crowding outside the house of Colonel Nasser Sarea, the head of special security forces in Aden, in Al-Arish district, near Al-Sawlaban base.

Col Sarea said the bomber "took advantage of the gathering and detonated his explosives among them, killing 30 soldiers and wounding several others".

Images from the blast scene showed blood stains and scattered shoes across the sandy ground.

The attack comes eight days after a similar bombing at Al-Sawlaban, claimed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil), killed 48 soldiers and wounded 29 others.

Yemeni authorities have for months pressed a campaign against jihadists who remain active in the south and east of the impoverished Arabian peninsula country.