The 'Saved by the Bell' diner is coming to a city near you
The 'Saved by the Bell' diner is coming to a city near you
After decades of waiting, Americans everywhere can finally head to the Max after school. Earlier this summer, Saved By The Max, a pop-up diner inspired by , opened up in Chicago's Wicker Park neighborhood, bringing much joy to '90s nostalgia nerds. Now, according to a newly released video announcement from Dennis “Principal Belding” Haskins, the pop-up diner appears to be going on a nationwide tour. SEE ALSO: The 10 most devastating TV moments of 2016 Yup, an overcooked thematic burger and soggy basket of retro fries is soon coming to you! In September, Mario Lopez himself headed to the pop-up and greeted everyone with a big: "What’s up, Preppy?" Sadly, Zack and Jesse weren't in the crowd to shut him down. Image: terry tang/AP The diner's customers can enjoy such fine delicacies, generously sprinkled with wordplay, as: A.C. Sliders The Tori Fried Chicken The Mac The Bayside Burger Snack attack Mr. Belding's fries But it's the atmosphere that really ties the restaurant together. Dine while surrounded by arcade machines, red locks, and red plastic chairs. Image: terry tang/AP What more do you want out of a story? How about this GIF: via GIPHY BONUS: Watch dogs try cat toys for the first time

After decades of waiting, Americans everywhere can finally head to the Max after school.

Earlier this summer, Saved By The Max, a pop-up diner inspired by Saved by the Bell, opened up in Chicago's Wicker Park neighborhood, bringing much joy to '90s nostalgia nerds. Now, according to a newly released video announcement from Dennis “Principal Belding” Haskins, the pop-up diner appears to be going on a nationwide tour.

SEE ALSO: The 10 most devastating TV moments of 2016

Yup, an overcooked thematic burger and soggy basket of retro fries is soon coming to you!

In September, Mario Lopez himself headed to the pop-up and greeted everyone with a big: "What’s up, Preppy?"

Sadly, Zack and Jesse weren't in the crowd to shut him down.

View photos

Image: terry tang/AP

The diner's customers can enjoy such fine delicacies, generously sprinkled with wordplay, as:

A.C. Sliders

The Tori Fried Chicken

The Mac

The Bayside Burger

Snack attack

Mr. Belding's fries

But it's the atmosphere that really ties the restaurant together. Dine while surrounded by arcade machines, red locks, and red plastic chairs.

View photos

Image: terry tang/AP

What more do you want out of a story?

How about this GIF:

via GIPHY