GM Will Test Self-Driving Cars On Michigan's Snowy Roads In Aggressive Push To Autonomous Future
GM Will Test Self-Driving Cars On Michigan's Snowy Roads In Aggressive Push To Autonomous Future
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Joann Muller       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo courtesy of General Motors On a day when temperatures dropped into the single digits in metro Detroit, General Motors Chief Executive Mary Barra said GM will immediately begin testing self-driving cars in Michigan's brutal driving conditions. The announcement came one week after Gov. Rick Snyder signed legislation allowing autonomous vehicles on any road in the state. "Revolutionizing transportation for our customers while improving safety on roads is the goal of our autonomous vehicle technology, and today's announcement gets us one step closer to making this vision a reality," Barra said at a news conference in GM's glass-enclosed lobby, as the wind swirled across snow-encrusted sidewalks outside. "Our autonomous technology will be reliable and safe, as customers have come to expect from any of our vehicles." GM has already been testing autonomous vehicles at its sprawling Technical Center in nearby Warren, Mich. Following the passage of the new law, those cars will now venture onto public roads throughout southeastern Michigan. GM began testing autonomous Bolt EVs on public roads in San Francisco and Scottsdale, Ariz., earlier this year. The company has more than 40 self-driving test cars on the road in those two cities. While testing in San Francisco helps self-driving cars navigate crowded city streets, Barra said Michigan testing will be important to ensure they can operate in harsh winter climates, including on snow-covered roads. The test vehicles, equipped with LIDAR, cameras sensors and other hardware, will be built at GM's Orion Township assembly plant beginning early in 2017. The plant already builds the 238-mile range plug-in Chevrolet Bolt EV and the compact Sonic. GM is not yet saying when self-driving cars are ready for public use, but is pursuing the technology "very aggressively," while ensuring safety comes first.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Fleetlights: Street Lights Of The Future?

On a day when temperatures dropped into the single digits in metro Detroit, General Motors Chief Executive Mary Barra said GM will immediately begin testing self-driving cars in Michigan's brutal driving conditions.

The announcement came one week after Gov. Rick Snyder signed legislation allowing autonomous vehicles on any road in the state.

"Revolutionizing transportation for our customers while improving safety on roads is the goal of our autonomous vehicle technology, and today's announcement gets us one step closer to making this vision a reality," Barra said at a news conference in GM's glass-enclosed lobby, as the wind swirled across snow-encrusted sidewalks outside.

"Our autonomous technology will be reliable and safe, as customers have come to expect from any of our vehicles."

GM has already been testing autonomous vehicles at its sprawling Technical Center in nearby Warren, Mich. Following the passage of the new law, those cars will now venture onto public roads throughout southeastern Michigan.

GM began testing autonomous Bolt EVs on public roads in San Francisco and Scottsdale, Ariz., earlier this year. The company has more than 40 self-driving test cars on the road in those two cities.

While testing in San Francisco helps self-driving cars navigate crowded city streets, Barra said Michigan testing will be important to ensure they can operate in harsh winter climates, including on snow-covered roads.

The test vehicles, equipped with LIDAR, cameras sensors and other hardware, will be built at GM's Orion Township assembly plant beginning early in 2017. The plant already builds the 238-mile range plug-in Chevrolet Bolt EV and the compact Sonic.

GM is not yet saying when self-driving cars are ready for public use, but is pursuing the technology "very aggressively," while ensuring safety comes first.