The ten reasons you feel bloated
The ten reasons you feel bloated


1. IT’S TRAPPED WIND

Abdominal discomfort is a likely scenario for many over the holiday season, thanks to parties and the Christmas Day feast. The most probable cause is that gas produced during digestion is expanding.

2. YOU CAN’T STAND DAIRY

People sensitive to lactose – a sugar found in dairy products – often experience bloating, flatulence, stomach cramps, nausea and other digestive problems. Lactose-intolerance is frequently genetic, meaning that the body does not produce enough lactase – the enzyme needed to digest lactose.

Scroll down for video

Abdominal discomfort is a likely scenario for many over the holiday season, thanks to parties and the Christmas Day feast

3...OR WHEAT

Gluten, a mix of proteins found in grains such as wheat, rye and barley, can trigger reactions in the gut. One in 100 people suffer from coeliac disease, in which gluten damages the lining of the gut. Medical professionals now recognise that about six per cent of the population are gluten-intolerant.

4. TOO MUCH BACTERIA

Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), where high levels of bacteria are found in the intestines, can be caused by antibiotics, poor digestion or inflammation of the digestive tract. Certain bacteria help to maintain a balanced stomach, but SIBO bloating is caused by bacteria unrelated to digestion irritating the stomach lining.

5. IT’S YOUR MEDICATION

Certain types of medication, such as aspirin and antacids, can upset the stomach and cause bloating and gas. If a prescription medication is behind your symptoms, discuss an alternative with your GP.

6. BLAME YOUR BOWEL

More than 9.5 million Britons – 15 per cent of the population – suffer from Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). The chronic illness affects the digestive system, causing bloating, diarrhoea, constipation and cramps. It is twice as common in women, for reasons unknown, and there is no known cause. Symptoms may last from a few days to months.

Should bloating persist for more than three weeks, it is advisable to visit a GP to rule out anything more sinister

7. NOT ENOUGH ACID

Low levels of stomach acid, a condition called achlorhydria or hypochlorhydria, means the stomach cannot digest food properly, causing a bacterial imbalance in the intestines. This leads to bloating after meals.

8. IT’S THAT TIME OF THE MONTH

Many women suffer bloating as part of their monthly cycle. When oestrogen levels rise, the uterine lining thickens, leading to a feeling of being swollen.

9. AGEING PAINS

Diverticula – bulges that develop on the large intestine – is a common side effect of ageing. The NHS estimates that five per cent of people have developed diverticula by the age of 40, and at least half have it by the age of 80. In a quarter of cases, the bulges develop into diverticular disease. The condition can often be treated by eating more fibre.

10. IT’S SOMETHING MORE SERIOUS