Will the NFL bust the Giants for walkie-talkie use? Tony Dungy thinks it should.

The NFL has been pretty quiet with regards to Giants Coach Ben McAdoo’s use of a walkie-talkie on the sideline during last week’s game against the Cowboys. Per the New York Post , the Cowboys told the league about what McAdoo and the Giants had done, while ESPN.com reported that Dallas never actually registered a formal complaint but that the NFL is investigating anyway. Either way, the story hasn’t been getting too much play, just days after the league, the Steelers and the Giants (again) worked together to quash the possibility of a second round of Deflategate before it even really began.   But former Buccaneers and Colts coach Tony Dungy, now an NBC commentator, thinks the Giants should be punished — and seriously, at that. During the pregame show leading into Dolphins-Jets on Saturday night, Dungy said that in his experience, the NFL made it abundantly clear what’s permissible and what isn’t as far as how coaches and players may communicate during games. “You cannot use walkie-talkies,” Dungy said. “To me this is very serious. If the league only issues a fine, there will be owners calling the league office the next day.” So, if a fine isn’t enough, what happen? Could McAdoo get suspended? Could any draft picks be taken away? The big question is whether the league — which hasn’t exactly been consistent in regard to discipline over the past several years — agrees with Dungy. (H/T Pro Football Talk )



We don’t yet know whether the NFL will punish the Giants and Coach Ben McAdoo. (Bill Kostroun/Associated Press)

The NFL has been pretty quiet with regards to Giants Coach Ben McAdoo’s use of a walkie-talkie on the sideline during last week’s game against the Cowboys. Per the New York Post, the Cowboys told the league about what McAdoo and the Giants had done, while ESPN.com reported that Dallas never actually registered a formal complaint but that the NFL is investigating anyway. Either way, the story hasn’t been getting too much play, just days after the league, the Steelers and the Giants (again) worked together to quash the possibility of a second round of Deflategate before it even really began.

[Jenkins: The NFL’s damning silence on a new case of underinflated footballs]

But former Buccaneers and Colts coach Tony Dungy, now an NBC commentator, thinks the Giants should be punished — and seriously, at that. During the pregame show leading into Dolphins-Jets on Saturday night, Dungy said that in his experience, the NFL made it abundantly clear what’s permissible and what isn’t as far as how coaches and players may communicate during games.

“You cannot use walkie-talkies,” Dungy said. “To me this is very serious. If the league only issues a fine, there will be owners calling the league office the next day.”

So, if a fine isn’t enough, what could happen? Could McAdoo get suspended? Could any draft picks be taken away?

The big question is whether the league — which hasn’t exactly been consistent in regard to discipline over the past several years — agrees with Dungy.

(H/T Pro Football Talk)