17 Celebrities Who Opened Up About Mental Health In 2016
17 Celebrities Who Opened Up About Mental Health In 2016
Lady Gaga revealed on the show that she has been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder since being raped at age 19. Adele opened up in about dealing with postpartum depression. Zayn Malik opened up about his eating disorder when he was in One Direction in his autobiography, . He wrote: “It wasn’t as though I had any concerns about my weight or anything like that, I’d just go for days – sometimes two or three days straight – without eating anything at all. It got quite serious, although at the time I didn’t recognise it for what it was.” Kristen Bell wrote about her depression for . She wrote: “For me, depression is not sadness. It’s not having a bad day and needing a hug. It gave me a complete and utter sense of isolation and loneliness. Its debilitation was all-consuming, and it shut down my mental circuit board. I felt worthless, like I had nothing to offer, like I was a failure. Now, after seeking help, I can see that those thoughts, of course, couldn’t have been more wrong.” Troian Bellisario opened up about anorexia and mental-health treatment in a video for . Catherine Zeta-Jones shared her diagnosis of bipolar disorder in . “If my revelation of having bipolar II has encouraged one person to seek help, then it is worth it,” she said. Amanda Seyfried talked about her OCD and stigma in . She went on to say, “I had pretty bad health anxiety that came from the OCD and thought I had a tumor in my brain. I had an MRI, and the neurologist referred me to a psychiatrist. As I get older, the compulsive thoughts and fears have diminished a lot. Knowing that a lot of my fears are not reality-based really helps.” Kid Cudi announced on Facebook that he deals with depression and suicidal urges, and had checked himself into rehab. Rachel Bloom talked about her anxiety and depression with . Selena Gomez shared she was taking time to focus on her mental health in a statement provided to BuzzFeed . John Green spoke about mental illness and creativity at NerdCon . Keke Palmer wrote about how depression and anxiety affected the release of her album . Devon Murray took to Twitter to share his experience with depression and suicidal thoughts. The actor shared his experience in honor of World Mental Health Day. Jade Thirlwall wrote about her past eating disorder in Little Mix’s new book . She wrote: “It took going to hospital to make me realise what I was doing, that it wasn’t a game, it was something really serious. They sat me down in the clinic and were quite tough at first, spelling it out: ‘You’re destroying your body and if you keep doing this you will die.’ I thought: ‘Fucking hell, I can’t do this to my family.’ It shocked me into a change.” Demi Lovato continued to be vocal about her life with bipolar disorder in . Ellie Goulding discussed struggling with panic attacks when her career took off in . She’s learned to cope with the help of cognitive behavioral therapy, saying, “There were a couple of times after I released when I was doing promo and thought, Oh god, it’s coming back, it’s coming back, but it didn’t. I think my body has become quite good at controlling anxiety.” Lena Dunham discussed anxiety on Refinery29’s RIOT series. She said on the reality of mental illness: “I feel like there’s this glamour, when you look at like a Tennessee Williams play, where the woman who has a psychological illness is in a fur, laid out on a chaise. Whereas in reality, a woman with mental illness or a woman struggling with her psychological wellbeing is often in sweats and in a T-shirt that used to belong to her dad and is covered in food bits.” For more Best of 2016 content, click here !   You're Only Allowed To Smoke Weed If You Can Pass This...    27 Tumblr Posts You'll Only Get If You Have Depression...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.