3-Year-Old Boy Fatally Shot in Arkansas Road Rage Incident
3-Year-Old Boy Fatally Shot in Arkansas Road Rage Incident
The grandmother reportedly pulled up to a stop sign around 6 p.m. when the incident took place. A motorist, who was trailing behind the woman's vehicle, grew agitated when she did not move quick enough through the traffic sign, Little Rock Police Department spokesman Lt. Steven McClanahan said in a statement . According to reports, the male driver soon began honking his horn in an attempt get the woman to move, but when she didn't, he reportedly got out of his vehicle and fired shots inside the car transporting the woman and the young boy. The woman, who was not hurt in the shooting, then drove to a nearby JC Penny , where she was able to alert police and medical officials that the the child had been shot. . Tonight's homicide was a road rage incident, the grandma and 3 year old victim are innocent and have no relationship w/ the suspect. We need your help locating an older black Chevrolet Impala being driven by a tall B/M. The incident occurred at Warren & Cutoff.  no arrests Buckner We cannot have a community where the least protected among us, meaning infants, are dying in these senseless crimes in our city," he said.

A 3-year-old boy was the victim of a road rage incident in Little Rock, Arkansas on Saturday. The toddler was reportedly shot and killed while riding in the car with his grandmother on their way to a shopping trip, authorities said.

The grandmother reportedly pulled up to a stop sign around 6 p.m. when the incident took place. A motorist, who was trailing behind the woman's vehicle, grew agitated when she did not move quick enough through the traffic sign, Little Rock Police Department spokesman Lt. Steven McClanahan said in a statement. According to reports, the male driver soon began honking his horn in an attempt get the woman to move, but when she didn't, he reportedly got out of his vehicle and fired shots inside the car transporting the woman and the young boy.

The woman, who was not hurt in the shooting, then drove to a nearby JC Penny, where she was able to alert police and medical officials that the the child had been shot. Upon arriving at Arkansas Children's Hospital, officials discovered the toddler had suffered fatal injuries from at least one bullet, CNN reports. He was later pronounced dead at the hospital.

Tonight's homicide was a road rage incident, the grandma and 3 year old victim are innocent and have no relationship w/ the suspect. — Little Rock Police ( @LRpolice ) December 18, 2016

We need your help locating an older black Chevrolet Impala being driven by a tall B/M. The incident occurred at Warren & Mablevale Cutoff. — Little Rock Police ( @LRpolice ) December 18, 2016

Unfortunately, no arrests have been made regarding the homicide, although detectives assure that a full investigation will be conducted. "Because we have not had an opportunity to do a very thorough investigation, we don't know as to when and where the individual operating the car was able to learn of when the child was shot," Little Rock Police Department Chief Kenton Buckner said in a press conference. "This is about as frustrated as you can be."

This is the second time within two months that a child was fatally shot while innocently riding in a car, NBC News reports. Earlier in Nov. 2016, a 2-year-old girl was shot and killed after an gunman drove by and fired into her car. The person responsible in that reported homicide has also not been caught. Chief Buckner demanded for the violence to stop. "We cannot have a community where the least protected among us, meaning infants, are dying in these senseless crimes in our city," he said. Police ask for any witnesses to come forward to help capture the gunman in the most recent incident.