Chapecoense player Alan Ruschel reveals how seat swap saved his life
Alan Ruschel breaks down as he reveals how a seat swap saved his life


Chapecoense defender Alan Ruschel, who survived last month's catastrophic plane crash, broke down in tears as he revealed how a last-minute seat swap before the flight took off saved his life.

Ruschel was sitting near the back of the plane when club director Cadu Gaucho asked him to move on the journey to play in the Copa Sudamericana final.

In a heartbreaking interview, the 27-year-old spoke to the press for the first time on Saturday, bursting into tears as he recalled the tragic plane crash in Colombia on November 28.

'Cadu Gaucho asked me to sit further forward and let the journalists sit together at the back,' Ruschel said at the news conference.

Alan Ruschel believes a late seat swap may have saved his life during last month's tragedy. He broke down in tears on Saturday during his first press conference since the tragedy on November 28

Chapecoense were hit by tragedy as 71 people died in a plane crash en route to Colombia

Ruschel was sitting near the back of the plane when club director Cadu Gaucho asked him to move on the journey to play in the Copa Sudamericana final

'I didn't want to but then I saw (Jackson) Follman and he insisted that I sit beside him,' he added.

'Only God can explain why I survived the accident. He grabbed me and gave me a second chance.'

Ruschel was one of only six survivors on the plane, which crashed into the mountains near Medellin.

The disaster killed 71 people, including almost all the Chapecoense team, directors and staff.

Goalkeeper Follman, one of Ruschel's best friends in the team, also survived, but had part of his leg amputated.

He was transferred on Saturday morning via air ambulance from Sao Paulo to a hospital in the club's home city in southern Brazil.

Goalkeeper Follman, one of Ruschel's (pictured in the hospital) best friends in the team, also survived, but had part of his leg amputated

The pilot of the Bolivian-run LAMIA plane has been accused of taking off without enough fuel for the doomed flight. Ruschel waved to those greeting him as he left a hospital earlier this week

Ruschel was able to stand from his wheelchair as he headed for a car outside the hospital

'I don't remember anything about the accident,' Ruschel said at the Arena Conda, the club's stadium in Chapeco.

'When they told me what happened it seemed like a dream, a nightmare. Little by little they've been telling me what happened and I'm starting to understand.

'I try not to speak of the accident, I avoid the news, but from the little I've seen I think it was greed on the pilot's part.'

The pilot of the Bolivian-run LAMIA plane has been accused of taking off without enough fuel for the flight.

The full back is one of six survivors of the Chapecoense air crash that happened last month

Bolivian authorities suspended the airline's operating license and replaced the management of its aviation authority to ensure a transparent investigation.

Ruschel promised to return to Colombia and treat his doctors there to one of the hearty barbecue meals famous in southern Brazil.

He also pledged to visit every one of the families of his compatriots who died before returning to the small town of Chapeco and continuing with the physiotherapy he needs to get fit again.

'As a lesson, this tragedy teaches that you have to keeping living,' he said. 'Take advantage of some things and do good for others.

'When I got here today I had the sensation that I was coming home. I promise to give lots more happiness to this team. With a lot of effort and hard work I am going to be back playing again soon.'