NFL Week 15 inactive players
Week 15 fantasy football inactives watch
Week 15 fantasy football inactives watch Week 15 fantasy football winners and losers Biggest NFL injuries of Week 15 Free-agent finds for Week 15 2 Related Rodgers re-established as fantasy's top quarterback Week 14 fantasy football winners and losers Clay: Top-200 dynasty rankings 2016 consistency ratings through Week 14 Osweiler benched; Savage rallies Texans to win Running back depth chart Three-year consistency ratings through Week 14 Fantasy football staff rankings: Week 15 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment To help you set your lineups and avoid starting a player who won't take the field, we will post fantasy-relevant updates and analysis here as NFL teams release their Sunday inactive lists before kickoff. Any rankings cited in this column come from our ESPN Fantasy staff ranks . Refresh often for the latest information. Ruled out before Sunday RB Darren Sproles (concussion), WR Marquess Wilson (groin), WR Allen Hurns (hamstring), TE C.J. Fiedorowicz (concussion), LB Derrick Johnson (Achilles), WR Donte Moncrief (hamstring), S Harrison Smith (ankle), DE Jason Pierre-Paul (core muscle), WR Julio Jones (toe), WR Danny Amendola (ankle), LB Brandon Marshall (hamstring), S Karl Joseph (toe), RB Melvin Gordon (hip), RB James Starks (concussion) WR Dorial Green-Beckham (abdomen, questionable) -- WR Jordan Matthews (ankle, questionable) -- LB Zach Brown (ankle, questionable) -- TE Charles Clay (knee, questionable) -- WR Sammy Watkins (foot, questionable) -- DT Kyle Williams (back, questionable) -- QB Aaron Rodgers (calf, questionable) -- WR Randall Cobb (ankle, questionable) -- RB Christine Michael (illness, questionable) -- LB Justin Houston (illness, questionable) -- TE Dwayne Allen (hip, questionable) -- RB Matt Asiata (ankle, questionable) -- RB Theo Riddick (wrist, doubtful) -- TE Eric Ebron (knee, questionable) -- RB Zach Zenner (concussion, questionable) -- RB Shane Vereen (concussion, questionable) -- WR A.J. Green (hamstring, doubtful) -- LB Craig Robertson (shoulder, questionable) -- WR John Brown (illness, questionable) -- TE Jermaine Gresham (knee, questionable) -- TE Martellus Bennett (ankle, questionable) -- LB Dont'a Hightower (knee, questionable) -- WR Amari Cooper (shoulder, questionable) -- WR Michael Crabtree (finger, questionable) -- S Chris Conte (chest, questionable) -- LB Lavonte David (hamstring, questionable) -- S Barry Church (forearm, questionable) -- WR Dez Bryant (back, questionable) -- LB Sean Lee (knee, questionable) -- Updates/analysis (most recent first) Kalif Raymond (3:05 p.m.): Raymond, who has averaged 10.2 yards per punt return over the last two games, is a surprise inactive today for the Broncos. Jordan Norwood , whose three fumbles on punts this season were a large reason why Raymond was activated in the first place, will likely get a chance at special teams redemption. San Francisco 49ers (2:40 p.m.): Colin Kaepernick is still the No. 1 quarterback for the 49ers, but the identity of his backup has changed. For the first time this season, Christian Ponder will be active for the team, with Blaine Gabbert sitting Week 15 out. DeAngelo Williams (11:58 a.m.): There had been a lot of talk about Williams returning from his knee injury this week, but he will miss his sixth straight game, despite not having been listed on the Pittsburgh injury report headed into the weekend. Le'Veon Bell owners who might have had some butterflies about some of his workload getting stolen by Williams need not fear. Indianapolis Colts (11:55 a.m.): With both Denzelle Good (concussion) and Joe Reitz (back) being inactive for today's game, the Colts will have to start three rookies on the offensive line: Joe Haeg , Ryan Kelly and Le'Raven Clark . As a result, Andrew Luck may not have as much time to throw the ball downfield as usual. Adrian Peterson (11:50 a.m.): As previously reported by ESPN's Adam Schefter, the Vikings running back has been activated for today's game, and will start for the Minnesota Vikings . Matt Asiata , who had been questionable to play with an ankle injury, is also active, and should split time in the backfield with both Peterson and Jerick McKinnon . Chicago Bears (11:45 a.m.): NT Eddie Goldman (ankle) reinjured an ankle that had previously caused him to miss six weeks of action this season, and will not play in Week 15. The defense will also be without CB Bryce Callahan (knee). Theo Riddick (11:40 a.m.): A wrist injury will indeed keep the Detroit running back out of action today. Dwayne Washington is likely to get (pardon the pun) the lion's share of carries in the backfield, though Zach Zenner (concussion) is active. A.J. Green (7:45 a.m.): Officially, we probably won't get word that Green will miss today's game until the inactives list is released. That said, all signs point to the Bengals waiting until Week 16 to get their star wide receiver back on the field. Upgrade Tyler Boyd in your fantasy rankings. Aaron Rodgers (7:35 a.m.): Call it "just in case," but it shouldn't be ignored that the Packers promoted QB Joe Callahan from their practice squad on Saturday. That gives them a backup to Brett Hundley , should Rodgers' calf force him to miss any or all of Sunday's game. It doesn't mean Rodgers won't start, but it certainly indicates Green Bay's fear he might not be able to finish the game. Ty Montgomery (7:30 a.m.): With James Starks sidelined because of a concussion, NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reports that Montgomery will start at running back for the Packers. Christine Michael is also expected to get some backfield work. Michael Floyd (7:25 a.m.): According to ESPN's Adam Schefter, the wide receiver will not be active today as the Patriots take on the Broncos. Floyd signed with New England on Thursday after being released by Arizona because of a DUI arrest last week. He was, however, expected to travel with the team to Colorado. Oakland Raiders (7:20 a.m.): While there's still a questionable tag on both starting wide receivers, Amari Cooper and Michael Crabtree are both expected to play on Sunday, despite being listed as limited throughout the week of practice. That could be very good news for QB Derek Carr 's chances for a solid fantasy outing. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

To help you set your lineups and avoid starting a player who won't take the field, we will post fantasy-relevant updates and analysis here as NFL teams release their Sunday inactive lists before kickoff. Any rankings cited in this column come from our ESPN Fantasy staff ranks.

Refresh often for the latest information.

Editor's Picks Derek Carr or Kirk Cousins? Debating the top DFS plays for Week 15 Have a tough call to make in DFS? Our experts debate players with similar salaries across multiple positions to help you decide on the best picks.

Fantasy football cheat sheet: Start and sit tips All of the best fantasy football advice and relevant information for Week 15 from our Insider experts, and all in one place. 1 Related

Ruled out before Sunday

RB Darren Sproles (concussion), WR Marquess Wilson (groin), WR Allen Hurns (hamstring), TE C.J. Fiedorowicz (concussion), LB Derrick Johnson (Achilles), WR Donte Moncrief (hamstring), S Harrison Smith (ankle), DE Jason Pierre-Paul (core muscle), WR Julio Jones (toe), WR Danny Amendola (ankle), LB Brandon Marshall (hamstring), S Karl Joseph (toe), RB Melvin Gordon (hip), RB James Starks (concussion)

Early games, 1 p.m. ET (eight scheduled)

WR Dorial Green-Beckham (abdomen, questionable) -- active

WR Jordan Matthews (ankle, questionable) -- active

LB Zach Brown (ankle, questionable) -- active

TE Charles Clay (knee, questionable) -- active

WR Sammy Watkins (foot, questionable) -- active

DT Kyle Williams (back, questionable) -- active

QB Aaron Rodgers (calf, questionable) -- active

WR Randall Cobb (ankle, questionable) -- active

RB Christine Michael (illness, questionable) -- active

LB Justin Houston (illness, questionable) -- active

TE Dwayne Allen (hip, questionable) -- active

RB Matt Asiata (ankle, questionable) -- active

RB Theo Riddick (wrist, doubtful) -- inactive

TE Eric Ebron (knee, questionable) -- active

RB Zach Zenner (concussion, questionable) -- active

RB Shane Vereen (concussion, questionable) -- active

WR A.J. Green (hamstring, doubtful) -- inactive

Late games, 4:05 and 4:25 p.m. ET (four scheduled)

LB Craig Robertson (shoulder, questionable) -- active

WR John Brown (illness, questionable) -- active

TE Jermaine Gresham (knee, questionable) -- active

TE Martellus Bennett (ankle, questionable) -- active

LB Dont'a Hightower (knee, questionable) -- active

WR Amari Cooper (shoulder, questionable) -- active

WR Michael Crabtree (finger, questionable) -- active

Sunday night game, 8:30 ET

S Chris Conte (chest, questionable) -- active

LB Lavonte David (hamstring, questionable) -- active

S Barry Church (forearm, questionable) -- active

WR Dez Bryant (back, questionable) -- active

LB Sean Lee (knee, questionable) -- active

Updates/analysis (most recent first)

Kalif Raymond (3:05 p.m.): Raymond, who has averaged 10.2 yards per punt return over the last two games, is a surprise inactive today for the Broncos. Jordan Norwood, whose three fumbles on punts this season were a large reason why Raymond was activated in the first place, will likely get a chance at special teams redemption.

San Francisco 49ers (2:40 p.m.): Colin Kaepernick is still the No. 1 quarterback for the 49ers, but the identity of his backup has changed. For the first time this season, Christian Ponder will be active for the team, with Blaine Gabbert sitting Week 15 out.

DeAngelo Williams (11:58 a.m.): There had been a lot of talk about Williams returning from his knee injury this week, but he will miss his sixth straight game, despite not having been listed on the Pittsburgh injury report headed into the weekend. Le'Veon Bell owners who might have had some butterflies about some of his workload getting stolen by Williams need not fear.

Indianapolis Colts (11:55 a.m.): With both Denzelle Good (concussion) and Joe Reitz (back) being inactive for today's game, the Colts will have to start three rookies on the offensive line: Joe Haeg, Ryan Kelly and Le'Raven Clark. As a result, Andrew Luck may not have as much time to throw the ball downfield as usual.

Adrian Peterson (11:50 a.m.): As previously reported by ESPN's Adam Schefter, the Vikings running back has been activated for today's game, and will start for the Minnesota Vikings. Matt Asiata, who had been questionable to play with an ankle injury, is also active, and should split time in the backfield with both Peterson and Jerick McKinnon.

Chicago Bears (11:45 a.m.): NT Eddie Goldman (ankle) reinjured an ankle that had previously caused him to miss six weeks of action this season, and will not play in Week 15. The defense will also be without CB Bryce Callahan (knee).

Theo Riddick (11:40 a.m.): A wrist injury will indeed keep the Detroit running back out of action today. Dwayne Washington is likely to get (pardon the pun) the lion's share of carries in the backfield, though Zach Zenner (concussion) is active.

A.J. Green (7:45 a.m.): Officially, we probably won't get word that Green will miss today's game until the inactives list is released. That said, all signs point to the Bengals waiting until Week 16 to get their star wide receiver back on the field. Upgrade Tyler Boyd in your fantasy rankings.

Aaron Rodgers (7:35 a.m.): Call it "just in case," but it shouldn't be ignored that the Packers promoted QB Joe Callahan from their practice squad on Saturday. That gives them a backup to Brett Hundley, should Rodgers' calf force him to miss any or all of Sunday's game. It doesn't mean Rodgers won't start, but it certainly indicates Green Bay's fear he might not be able to finish the game.

Ty Montgomery (7:30 a.m.): With James Starks sidelined because of a concussion, NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reports that Montgomery will start at running back for the Packers. Christine Michael is also expected to get some backfield work.

Michael Floyd (7:25 a.m.): According to ESPN's Adam Schefter, the wide receiver will not be active today as the Patriots take on the Broncos. Floyd signed with New England on Thursday after being released by Arizona because of a DUI arrest last week. He was, however, expected to travel with the team to Colorado.

Oakland Raiders (7:20 a.m.): While there's still a questionable tag on both starting wide receivers, Amari Cooper and Michael Crabtree are both expected to play on Sunday, despite being listed as limited throughout the week of practice. That could be very good news for QB Derek Carr's chances for a solid fantasy outing.

Official Sunday inactives should begin coming in at approximately 11:30 a.m. ET for the early games, 2:30 p.m. ET for the late games and 7 p.m. ET for the Sunday night game.