Jeremy Hill Scores TD vs. Steelers, Celebrates by Trashing Terrible Towel
Jeremy Hill Scores TD vs. Steelers, Celebrates by Trashing Terrible Towel
Cincinnati Bengals running back Jeremy Hill doesn't have the fondest memories of playing the Pittsburgh Steelers at Paul Brown Stadium, so on Sunday, he was more than ready to let out his frustrations. Clinging to slim playoff chances, the Bengals got off to a hot start against their archrivals. Before the teams reached the midway point of the second quarter, the reigning AFC North champs had a 17-3 lead, thanks in part to a Hill touchdown. Although the running back has been known to dance to celebrate his scores, he went with something bolder this time. Hill got his hands on a Terrible Towel, did his best to rip it up and then threw it to the ground. After the game, Hill made sure his point got across: That was of course followed by a predictable tweet: I was hacked 👀 No word on if his celebration was also hacked. Regardless of any hacking, there's no love lost between these rivals. [Vine]

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories

Cincinnati Bengals running back Jeremy Hill doesn't have the fondest memories of playing the Pittsburgh Steelers at Paul Brown Stadium, so on Sunday, he was more than ready to let out his frustrations.

Clinging to slim playoff chances, the Bengals got off to a hot start against their archrivals. Before the teams reached the midway point of the second quarter, the reigning AFC North champs had a 17-3 lead, thanks in part to a Hill touchdown.

Although the running back has been known to dance to celebrate his scores, he went with something bolder this time. Hill got his hands on a Terrible Towel, did his best to rip it up and then threw it to the ground.

After the game, Hill made sure his point got across:

via @JeremyHill33

That was of course followed by a predictable tweet:

I was hacked 👀 — Jeremy Hill (@JeremyHill33) December 18, 2016

No word on if his celebration was also hacked.

Regardless of any hacking, there's no love lost between these rivals.

[Vine]