Jaguars fire coach Gus Bradley after 3-plus seasons, 14 wins
Jaguars fire coach Bradley after 14-48 record
Jaguars fire coach Bradley after 14-48 record Osweiler benched; Savage rallies Texans to win Steelers to Hill: Don't disrespect Terrible Towel RB Ingram: Need to 'control my emotions better' Best and worst QBs of Week 15: Matt Ryan leads the way The great NFL lessons of 2016 (so far) AFC East title makes joyous Martellus Bennett forget his past Time for Patriots fans to book a flight to Houston ... again NFL playoff picture: Patriots, Raiders punch their tickets What 10 wins means for the Giants and their playoff chances The Big Story for every NFL team Going for two, and the win, becoming more popular among NFL coaches Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? 'Sidekick' Bruce Irvin: Robin showed up for the Raiders Lots of fun as Ezekiel Elliott goes about his work for Cowboys 1 Related Ezekiel Elliott shouldn'€™t have been penalized for Salvation Army celebration Cowboys take bumpy road in inching closer to NFC East title Dak Prescott rebounds against Bucs, quiets critics Broncos' playoff to-do list: Keep locker room together, win out Aaron Rodgers shows why no one should want to play the Packers Ravens pumped for biggest regular-season meeting ever with rival Steelers Thanks to Cowboys, Redskins regain control of playoff fate To reclaim winning culture, 49ers need significant change Players recall how the biggest plays of Week 15 went down Steelers amped for much-anticipated 'game of chess' with Ravens Parlays give Vegas books another losing weekend Titans' 'do not doubt' attitude keeps them tied atop AFC South Jets' big-money players have failed, and now it's time to cash out Doug Pederson wins points in Eagles' locker room with aggressive approach Sticking with Blake Bortles among things that cost Gus Bradley his job 1 Related Tom Coughlin, Todd Haley, Josh McDaniels names to watch in Jaguars search Biggest NFL injuries of Week 15 Alex Smith's end-zone interceptions ruining a good thing for Chiefs Bills' final two games should matter little in decision about Rex Ryan Scary thought for playoff teams: Giants winning with defense 3 Related Another OBJ one-handed catch helps lift Giants Giants on verge of playoffs thanks to home cooking Lions' offense sputters in loss to Giants, snapping win streak Odell Beckham Jr.'s 'catch' against Lions: Worst call of the year? Herm Edwards believes that firing Gus Bradley with just two games left in the season is a "disservice" to the team and to Bradley, while Ryan Clark adds that this Jaguars team has been taught to finish and won't be able to finish the season with Bradley. (1:37) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covered University of Florida for 13 seasons for ESPN.com and Florida Times-Union Graduate of Jacksonville University Multiple APSE award winner Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- The Jacksonville Jaguars have fired Gus Bradley, ending his tenure with the second-worst winning percentage of any NFL head coach who has coached at least 50 games. Owner Shad Khan made the move on Sunday, just hours after the Jaguars' 21-20 loss at the Houston Texans dropped them to 2-12. Sunday's loss was the Jaguars' ninth in a row, which is the most in franchise history in a single season. GM Dave Caldwell will have a news conference on Monday afternoon to announce an interim coach for the season's final two games. It's likely to be offensive line coach Doug Marrone or defensive backs coach DeWayne Walker. "I thanked Gus Bradley today for his commitment to the Jacksonville Jaguars over the past four seasons,'' owner Shad Khan said in a statement. "As anyone close to our team knows, Gus gave his staff and players literally everything he had. Our players competed for Gus and I know they have great respect for him, as do I. "Gus also represented the Jaguars, the Jacksonville community and the NFL in nothing less than a first-class manner as our head coach. That counts for a lot. It is unfortunately evident that we must make a change. I thought it would be best to do it immediately after today's result so Gus can step away, relax and regroup with his family during the Christmas and holiday season.'' Bradley was 14-48 (.226) in three-plus seasons with the Jaguars. The only coach with a worse winning percentage is Bert Bell (.190), who also was the Philadelphia Eagles' owner. This was supposed to be the season that the Jaguars had a legitimate chance to win the AFC South, which is the worst division in the NFL. Khan said after the 2015 season that a winning record in 2016 was "everybody's reasonable expectation." That didn't happen, and Sunday's loss to the Texans was apparently Khan's breaking point. The Jaguars intercepted Houston quarterback Brock Osweiler twice, and Jags return man Marqise Lee returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown, but the Jaguars managed just 150 yards of offense and blew a 20-8 third-quarter lead. They lost their sixth in a row to the Texans. "I don't know, really, for anybody in this locker room how much more frustrated you can be,'' quarterback Blake Bortles said. "Once again we had all the opportunities in the world, chances in the fourth quarter to score, and we just don't do it.'' The Jaguars haven't won a game since Oct. 16, when they rallied to beat Chicago 17-16. Since then, the Jaguars have lost to Oakland, Tennessee, Kansas City, Houston, Detroit and Buffalo for the third six-game losing streak in Bradley's tenure. The Jaguars' 33-16 loss to Oakland at EverBank Field on Oct. 23 prompted Khan to attend a team meeting the following day to ask the players why the Jaguars weren't winning more games. Three days later, the Jaguars were embarrassed again on national television in a 36-22 loss at the Tennessee Titans. The Titans rolled up 354 yards and 20 first downs and led 27-0 at halftime. The Jaguars scored two garbage touchdowns to make the score seem less outrageous. Two days later, Bradley fired offensive coordinator Greg Olson and promoted quarterbacks coach Nathaniel Hackett. The Jaguars' offense has been marginally better in the four games since but still hasn't scored more than 21 points in any of those games. Before the season, everything appeared to be in place for the Jaguars to be competitive in the AFC South, especially after GM Dave Caldwell rebuilt the defense in the offseason. The unit ranked 26th or worse in scoring defense and 24th or worse in total defense from 2013-15 under Bradley. They gave up a franchise-record 449 points in 2013 and 448 points in 2015. From 2013-15 the Jaguars' defense recorded the fewest interceptions in the NFL (26) and ranked 31st in scoring defense (27.3 points per game), 31st in third-down defense (43.8 percent) and 29th in total defense (375.0 yards per game). Thanks to several key offseason additions -- defensive tackle Malik Jackson , cornerback Prince Amukamara and free safety Tashaun Gipson in free agency, and cornerback Jalen Ramsey and linebacker Myles Jack in the first two rounds of the draft -- the defense has been better under first-time coordinator Todd Wash, whom Bradley promoted from defensive line coach after he fired longtime friend and defensive coordinator Bob Babich after last season. However, the offense, which carried the team a year ago, has been the problem. Quarterback Blake Bortles has not played well in 2016. After setting franchise records in passing yards (4,428) and passing TDs (35) in 2015, Bortles has struggled with turnovers (20) and hasn't made big plays in the passing game. He has regressed mechanically, and in October he brought in a personal throwing coach for two days to help him try to fix issues with his footwork and delivery. Bradley was Seattle's defensive coordinator when Caldwell hired him to be the Jaguars' fifth head coach in January 2013. Together they set out to rebuild a franchise that was coming off a 2-14 season and had one of the worst rosters in the NFL. Bradley went 4-12 in his first season and 3-13 in his second, with 19 of those 25 losses coming by double digits. After the 2014 season, Bradley fired offensive coordinator Jedd Fisch over what he said were philosophical differences relating to how much Fisch was asking Bortles to do within the offense. Bradley replaced Fisch with Olson, and Bortles and the offense flourished in 2015. The Jaguars were 5-11 last season and Khan announced in late December that Bradley would return in 2016, and after the season the owner gave Bradley a one-year extension through 2017. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Herm Edwards believes that firing Gus Bradley with just two games left in the season is a "disservice" to the team and to Bradley, while Ryan Clark adds that this Jaguars team has been taught to finish and won't be able to finish the season with Bradley. (1:37)

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- The Jacksonville Jaguars have fired Gus Bradley, ending his tenure with the second-worst winning percentage of any NFL head coach who has coached at least 50 games.

Owner Shad Khan made the move on Sunday, just hours after the Jaguars' 21-20 loss at the Houston Texans dropped them to 2-12. Sunday's loss was the Jaguars' ninth in a row, which is the most in franchise history in a single season.

GM Dave Caldwell will have a news conference on Monday afternoon to announce an interim coach for the season's final two games. It's likely to be offensive line coach Doug Marrone or defensive backs coach DeWayne Walker.

Editor's Picks Tom Coughlin, Todd Haley, Josh McDaniels names to watch in Jaguars search Is a return to Jacksonville in the cards for Tom Coughlin or will the team go the young coordinator route? Here are names to consider for Jags coach.

Sticking with Blake Bortles one of things that cost Gus Bradley his job Gus Bradley's loyalty to Blake Bortles was admirable. It's the kind of support every player wants. However, it may have been his undoing in Jacksonville.

New Jaguars coach should have a say on Blake Bortles' future GM Dave Caldwell could face a difficult search if the Jaguars' next coach is forced to keep Blake Bortles as his starter in 2017. 2 Related

"I thanked Gus Bradley today for his commitment to the Jacksonville Jaguars over the past four seasons,'' owner Shad Khan said in a statement. "As anyone close to our team knows, Gus gave his staff and players literally everything he had. Our players competed for Gus and I know they have great respect for him, as do I.

"Gus also represented the Jaguars, the Jacksonville community and the NFL in nothing less than a first-class manner as our head coach. That counts for a lot. It is unfortunately evident that we must make a change. I thought it would be best to do it immediately after today's result so Gus can step away, relax and regroup with his family during the Christmas and holiday season.''

Bradley was 14-48 (.226) in three-plus seasons with the Jaguars. The only coach with a worse winning percentage is Bert Bell (.190), who also was the Philadelphia Eagles' owner.

This was supposed to be the season that the Jaguars had a legitimate chance to win the AFC South, which is the worst division in the NFL. Khan said after the 2015 season that a winning record in 2016 was "everybody's reasonable expectation."

That didn't happen, and Sunday's loss to the Texans was apparently Khan's breaking point. The Jaguars intercepted Houston quarterback Brock Osweiler twice, and Jags return man Marqise Lee returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown, but the Jaguars managed just 150 yards of offense and blew a 20-8 third-quarter lead. They lost their sixth in a row to the Texans.

"I don't know, really, for anybody in this locker room how much more frustrated you can be,'' quarterback Blake Bortles said. "Once again we had all the opportunities in the world, chances in the fourth quarter to score, and we just don't do it.''

The Jaguars haven't won a game since Oct. 16, when they rallied to beat Chicago 17-16. Since then, the Jaguars have lost to Oakland, Tennessee, Kansas City, Houston, Detroit and Buffalo for the third six-game losing streak in Bradley's tenure. The Jaguars' 33-16 loss to Oakland at EverBank Field on Oct. 23 prompted Khan to attend a team meeting the following day to ask the players why the Jaguars weren't winning more games. Three days later, the Jaguars were embarrassed again on national television in a 36-22 loss at the Tennessee Titans.

The Titans rolled up 354 yards and 20 first downs and led 27-0 at halftime. The Jaguars scored two garbage touchdowns to make the score seem less outrageous.

Wins Scarce For Bradley's Jaguars Since Gus Bradley took over in 2013, the Jaguars' 14-48 record is tied with the Browns for the worst mark in the NFL. Team Pct. W-L Jaguars .226 14-48 Browns .226 14-48 Titans .323 20-42 Buccaneers .328 20-42

-- ESPN Stats & Information

Two days later, Bradley fired offensive coordinator Greg Olson and promoted quarterbacks coach Nathaniel Hackett. The Jaguars' offense has been marginally better in the four games since but still hasn't scored more than 21 points in any of those games.

Before the season, everything appeared to be in place for the Jaguars to be competitive in the AFC South, especially after GM Dave Caldwell rebuilt the defense in the offseason. The unit ranked 26th or worse in scoring defense and 24th or worse in total defense from 2013-15 under Bradley. They gave up a franchise-record 449 points in 2013 and 448 points in 2015. From 2013-15 the Jaguars' defense recorded the fewest interceptions in the NFL (26) and ranked 31st in scoring defense (27.3 points per game), 31st in third-down defense (43.8 percent) and 29th in total defense (375.0 yards per game).

Thanks to several key offseason additions -- defensive tackle Malik Jackson, cornerback Prince Amukamara and free safety Tashaun Gipson in free agency, and cornerback Jalen Ramsey and linebacker Myles Jack in the first two rounds of the draft -- the defense has been better under first-time coordinator Todd Wash, whom Bradley promoted from defensive line coach after he fired longtime friend and defensive coordinator Bob Babich after last season.

However, the offense, which carried the team a year ago, has been the problem. Quarterback Blake Bortles has not played well in 2016. After setting franchise records in passing yards (4,428) and passing TDs (35) in 2015, Bortles has struggled with turnovers (20) and hasn't made big plays in the passing game. He has regressed mechanically, and in October he brought in a personal throwing coach for two days to help him try to fix issues with his footwork and delivery.

Bradley was Seattle's defensive coordinator when Caldwell hired him to be the Jaguars' fifth head coach in January 2013. Together they set out to rebuild a franchise that was coming off a 2-14 season and had one of the worst rosters in the NFL.

Bradley went 4-12 in his first season and 3-13 in his second, with 19 of those 25 losses coming by double digits. After the 2014 season, Bradley fired offensive coordinator Jedd Fisch over what he said were philosophical differences relating to how much Fisch was asking Bortles to do within the offense. Bradley replaced Fisch with Olson, and Bortles and the offense flourished in 2015.

The Jaguars were 5-11 last season and Khan announced in late December that Bradley would return in 2016, and after the season the owner gave Bradley a one-year extension through 2017.

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.