DA Clears Fresno Officers In Fatal Shooting of Unarmed Teen
DA Clears Fresno Officers In Fatal Shooting of Unarmed Teen - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On Friday, Fresno County District Attorney Lisa Smittcamp cleared police Officers Raymond Camacho and Robert Chavez in the shooting death of Dylan Noble. Noble was shot by officers in June 25, 2016, after exiting his vehicle and allegedly reaching behind his back after officers had ordered him to put his hands in the air. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “This decision was made after several hundred hours of investigation and review by the highest level of staff at the District Attorney’s Office,”Smittcamp said, according to “It was based on the facts and the law. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the parents, family and friends of Dylan Noble. He was killed during this unfortunate incident with the Fresno Police Department, but he was not murdered according to the law.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On Friday, Fresno County District Attorney Lisa Smittcamp cleared police Officers Raymond Camacho and Robert Chavez in the shooting death of Dylan Noble.

Noble was shot by officers in June 25, 2016, after exiting his vehicle and allegedly reaching behind his back after officers had ordered him to put his hands in the air.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

ABC 30 reported that autopsy on Noble revealed he “had a blood alcohol content of 0.12,” which is “much higher than the legal limit of 0.01 for people underage.” Moreover, “traces of benzoylecgonine—the primary component of cocaine”—were discovered in his system, too.

“This decision was made after several hundred hours of investigation and review by the highest level of staff at the District Attorney’s Office,”Smittcamp said, according to The Sacramento Bee. “It was based on the facts and the law. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the parents, family and friends of Dylan Noble. He was killed during this unfortunate incident with the Fresno Police Department, but he was not murdered according to the law.”

“Until an individual complies with the lawful commands of a peace officer, they are still considered a threat,” she added.

Fresno Police released body camera footage of the shooting. (Warning: Profanity, Violence)

Smittcamp noted Noble’s “continued non-compliance with the officers’ clear and concise orders,” because of which “the officers reasonably believed that he had a weapon in his waistband.”

“Even after he was wounded on the ground, his actions were consistent with someone that was retrieving a weapon from concealment,” she said.