How to get the stained glass look in your own home
How to get the stained glass look in your own home
tained glass is one of the emblems of Christmas. There’s no better way to be uplifted by the nativity story than via this ancient decorative art . The medium is carried through into our festive decorations, with handblown baubles and multicoloured fairy lights. Coordinating schemes might be the tasteful choice for the rest of the year, but at Christmas it’s perfectly acceptable to unleash a whole rainbow of shades inside your home. This year, tableware designers such as Waterford have gone kaleidoscopic, bringing out cut glass in all shades that looks best when mixed and matched. With limited levels of light at this time of year, an accessory or two made from coloured glass can bring cheer to a room, glowing warmly as it catches the low winter sun. tained glass has provided plenty of inspiration lately for cutting-edge designers , who have made a traditional technique suitable for highly modern tastes. atricia Urquiola and Federico Pepe’s Credenza furniture collection for the chic Milan design gallery Spazio Pontaccio is made by the same artisans who work on Italy’s ecclesiastical stained glass, but is strongly contemporary and graphic, based on circles filled with jagged shapes. The Brazilian Campana brothers launched the Aquário sideboard with the surrealist-leaning furniture company BD Barcelona. Its blue or green glass inner shell is glimpsed via blob-shaped cut-outs in its outer timber casing. The effect is like looking at a strange, empty fish tank, but the coloured patterns it casts on adjacent surfaces are almost as captivating as those of a stained-glass window. ndrew Moor, an architectural glass design consultant, insists that coloured glass is a relevant choice for designers and architects. His portfolio includes a 5,382 sq ft installation at Hong Kong airport, but he also works with interior designers, pairing them up with artists to create special pieces for homes. “When I first got into glass 30 years ago, the people doing it were proud of the fact that their industry hadn’t changed for 1,200 years ,” Moor says. Now, leaded glass has given way to countless other techniques, such as creating patterns by bonding mouth-blown glass to larger sheets of clear float glass. The effect is that of a leaded stained-glass window, minus the lead. “For high-end residential properties, there’s nothing to beat it,” Moor says. “The mouth-blown glass creates this shimmering effect that’s just fabulous.” ccording to Moor, coloured or patterned glass used for windows has often-overlooked practical benefits. “It’s great if you have an ugly view you want to block or for places where you need a bit of privacy, such as stairwells,” he says. Interior designer Annabel Karim Kassar’s London home features a three-floor staircase illuminated with a window, in which all the rectangular panels of glass have subtly different tints and textures. The glass was handblown by French heritage firm Saint Just, and Karim Kassar’s concept is a lovely way to bring together an old technique in a modern framework. “I love stained glass when it’s used to contrast antique and modern: for example, sitting a contemporary console table under an original stained-glass window,” says interior designer Brian Wade of Tim Flynn Architects, one of Andrew Moor’s clients. “The dappled light that just pours through into the room adds a fascinating extra dimension.” tained glass started to be widely incorporated into ordinary homes during the Victorian building boom, and many a twinklingly beautiful front entrance survives intact, lending a decorative air to the streetscape. f yours has seen better days (or has disappeared altogether), a surprising number of local firms can repair and remake leaded glass. Original leaded glass is totally at odds with the concept of a modern, energy-efficient, airtight home. As Andrew Moor puts it: “It leaks like a sieve.” But existing windows can be removed and replaced with a double-glazed unit, to which the original leaded panel is bonded on the inside. Perhaps more exciting is the chance to commission something new. Yorgos Papadopoulos, a London-based architectural glass artist, admits that his technique has next to nothing in common with the leaded-glass traditions of centuries past, but in many ways it is more vibrant and dynamic. After cracking single sheets of glass with a hammer, he fills the cracks with pigment, sandblasts areas, adds gold leaf, and sandwiches in coloured silicon gels. He recently transformed a 13ft by 3ft outdoor basement in Kensington with an undulating seascape, backed by a mirror, which bounces light and colour into the house. here is an interesting crossover happening between art and architectural glass at the moment. French artist Jean-Michel Othoniel recently completed a decade-long project to design the treasury of Angoulême Cathedral, which includes abstract windows of interlaced geometric patterns of exquisite intricacy. It was announced last month that David Hockney was to design a stained-glass window in Westminster Abbey to celebrate the Queen’s reign. Its subject matter, says Hockney, is “a landscape full of blossom that’s a celebration every year”. Neither of these esteemed ecclesiastical projects is religious in subject matter, but both are intended to inspire the same sensual wonderment that many feel when they visit the great cathedrals – at Christmas, and always.

Stained glass is one of the emblems of Christmas. There’s no better way to be uplifted by the nativity story than via this ancient decorative art. The medium is carried through into our festive decorations, with handblown baubles and multicoloured fairy lights.

Coordinating schemes might be the tasteful choice for the rest of the year, but at Christmas it’s perfectly acceptable to unleash a whole rainbow of shades inside your home.

This year, tableware designers such as Waterford have gone kaleidoscopic, bringing out cut glass in all shades that looks best when mixed and matched. With limited levels of light at this time of year, an accessory or two made from coloured glass can bring cheer to a room, glowing warmly as it catches the low winter sun.