Desiigner And Dak Prescott Are Featured In Champ Sports' Latest 'The Moment' Commercial
Desiigner And Dak Prescott Are Featured In Champ Sports' Latest 'The Moment' Commercial
During the 31st episode of OVO Sound Radio , producer Vinylz provided an exclusive sneak peek at Desiigner and DJ SpinKing’s track called “Outlet.” More than two months after the song's debut, we now have an extended listen as well as its official music video presented by Champ Sports. The visual is a part of the retailer’s “We Know Game: The Moment” campaign, and features the Brooklyn rapper rocking Adidas while turning up on the set of a shoot. Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott makes a cameo in the project, which can be viewed above. The apparel and footwear featured in the video can be purchased at Champ Sports’ online store . This "Outlet" track is, no doubt, solid; however, it might not be the full version. Shortly after the video premiered, DJ SpinKing retweeted a message that suggested that the "real" track has yet to be heard. Nah I need the real version of Outlet. This isn't even fair @DJSPINKING If there is an official version of the track, let's hope it drops soon.

During the 31st episode of OVO Sound Radio, producer Vinylz provided an exclusive sneak peek at Desiigner and DJ SpinKing’s track called “Outlet.” More than two months after the song's debut, we now have an extended listen as well as its official music video presented by Champ Sports.

The visual is a part of the retailer’s “We Know Game: The Moment” campaign, and features the Brooklyn rapper rocking Adidas while turning up on the set of a shoot. Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott makes a cameo in the project, which can be viewed above. The apparel and footwear featured in the video can be purchased at Champ Sports’ online store.

This "Outlet" track is, no doubt, solid; however, it might not be the full version. Shortly after the video premiered, DJ SpinKing retweeted a message that suggested that the "real" track has yet to be heard.

Nah I need the real version of Outlet. This isn't even fair @DJSPINKING — Kontos #ISOBH (@kontosone) December 18, 2016

If there is an official version of the track, let's hope it drops soon.