Cricket's pregnancy clause wars: Proxy battle over growing revenue stream?



Cricket's pregnancy clause wars: Proxy battle over growing revenue stream?

Updated

"The Pregnancy Clause Wars." This summer's blockbuster!

Just when cricket's authorities and players thought it safe to go back into the negotiating room, the clause that has lain quietly in their women's contracts has exploded.

Cricket Australia (CA) on Monday morning put a pregnant pause on its pay talks with the players' union, accusing the Australian Cricketers' Association (ACA) of playing tit-for-tat in the media on the issue of the section in women's contracts covering pregnancy.

The talks had been scheduled for Monday and Tuesday – this morning CA pulled the pin on that, and now no-one will come to the table before mid-January.

As Ron Burgundy would say, "that escalated quickly".

Just a few days ago, a strategic leak of the clause, which asks players to declare they are not pregnant, led to questions over its legality.

That triggered no less than a Fair Work Commission 'please explain'.

CA agreed the clause did not properly express its policy to protect women's rights, which it insisted met anti-discrimination requirements.

The players' union has accused CA of ignoring its pleas for a better agreement, but CA said the union never responded to its proposals.

And all this, over a clause that - at least to some extent - had been agreed to by both parties at some stage.

In fact, both parties seem to be right on board with getting better protection and pay for women - it seems likely the real reason for this public shadow boxing is about the far more contentious issue: how to carve up the sport's massive revenue stream.

CA's proposal could see international players reap a guaranteed share of the growing spoils while their brothers and sisters, in the domestic ranks have their pay pegged to more modest growth.

In the past week, the parties have served up a volley of claims and counter-claims worthy of the upcoming Australian Open, with far less pay-off.

These are vital talks, happening in a rare slipstream of goodwill and appreciation for the burgeoning women's game, in a semi-professional industry only just finding expression in industrial law.

Let's hope 'The Farce Awakens' and they can all get on with it.

Topics: cricket, sport, pregnancy-and-childbirth, australia

First posted