MYEFO: Mid-year budget update shows these aren't ordinary times



MYEFO: Mid-year budget update shows these aren't ordinary times

Updated

Not all Scott Morrison's Christmases have come at once — but at least it's a start.

The good news from the Mid Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook is the Treasurer appears to have achieved what few others have managed in recent years; an improvement in the current year compared to the May budget.

The bad news is the forecasts for next year and beyond look shocking.

And the deterioration has not been looked upon kindly by all three of the global ratings agencies.

While the Treasurer and the government have dodged a bullet, with all three maintaining the AAA credit rating for now, both Moody's and Standard & Poor’s rejected the government's claims it could return to surplus by 2021.

S&P, which already has warned it would consider a downgrade, said the worsening forecasts further pressures the rating.

Thanks to windfall gains from an unexpected bounce in iron ore and coal prices, this year's deficit is likely to come in at $36.5 billion — slightly below the May budget forecast of $37.1 billion.

Commodity prices have been soaring. Iron ore has risen 120 per cent this year, while coal for steel-making has shot the lights out with a 300 per cent gain.

Under ordinary circumstances, such a dramatic improvement in our terms of trade would have gone a long way to eating into that deficit and returning the budget to surplus. But these aren't ordinary times.

Ultra-low inflation and the slowest wages growth on record have all but eliminated the benefits from the welcome bounce in export prices.

Low wages growth means little in the way of bracket creep. And that means a much slower rate of growth in income tax receipts.

Uppermost in Mr Morrison's mind is that no-one, not even the mining companies, expect these prices to last, so the budget benefits will be fleeting.

Unfortunately, the slight improvement in this year's accounts will be overwhelmed by a $10.9 billion deterioration in the next three years.

Wild revenue swings uncontrollable

As Joe Hockey and Wayne Swan both discovered before him, Mr Morrison has learned the hard way that there is no way to control the wild revenue swings that ultimately dictate the nation's financial position.

The previous two federal budgets were both flawed by overly optimistic predictions for economic growth, particularly nominal GDP which dictates tax revenues.

Somehow, nominal growth magically was supposed to hit 5 per cent next year — double last year's effort, which would cure all our ills.

Those forecasts now have been dumped, replaced by a more realistic 3.75 per cent, rising to 4.5 per cent by the end of the decade, which explains the deterioration in the deficit.

Nevertheless, the Government has maintained its promise to return to budget balance during the same timeframe which, given the blowout, appears a stretch.

Given successive treasurers have had trouble forecasting six months ahead, predicting global economic conditions years into the future is an exercise in futility.

Ultimately, it will be China that dictates our performance.

AAA downgrade may have benefits

The forecast deficit blow-outs in future years flows through to a lift in national debt.

From $496 billion in government securities on issue this year, gross debt is scheduled to grow to $601 billion by the end of the decade.

That continued lift in the debt burden will place pressure on our AAA credit rating.

Standard & Poor's has already warned it wants to see a credible return to surplus, and is likely to be underwhelmed by today's statement.

Despite all the angst surrounding a potential downgrade, it would be largely symbolic and just may have some beneficial effects.

While it would increase offshore borrowing costs a touch, a major side-effect would be a drop in the Australian dollar.

Many global investment funds have a mandate to invest only in AAA-rated securities which, given their rarity, has seen a flood of funds into the country that has kept the local currency higher than it should be.

A weaker Australian dollar would boost our global competitiveness, lift trading revenues and boost domestic wages — thereby helping the Government repair the budget.

Where once the Coalition railed about the "debt and deficit disaster", the Treasurer has recently adopted a more mature approach, opening the door to using debt to fund infrastructure and this morning noting Australia's debt is about one-third the size of other developed economies.

That's true.

But as a nation relying on a few major exports to mostly one country, China, Australia is more exposed and more vulnerable to global shocks.

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, economic-trends, money-and-monetary-policy, budget, government-and-politics, federal-government, australia

First posted