This photo of 'Superman' Henry Cavill holding a tree is baffling the internet
This photo of 'Superman' Henry Cavill holding a tree is baffling the internet
LONDON — The British actor Henry Cavill is a large man who clearly spends time at the gym, but — despite what his on-screen persona might suggest — he does not possess super-human strength. SEE ALSO: This Mashup of Every Single Superman Is Totally Dreamy So how on earth is he holding up this large tree with only one hand? Is this really the biggest tree you've got? #ChristmasSpiritActivated #GotElves A photo posted by Henry Cavill (@henrycavill) on Instagram users didn't know quite what to make of it. Some people were impressed. Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Others were confused. Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Eventually, though, some people spotted a clue. Image:  instagram/ henrycavill Image:  instagram/ henrycavill The optical illusion becomes clear if you look at the shadows behind him. Yep: That's the shadow of the crane that's actually holding up the tree. Image:  instagram/ henrycavill /mashable composite As strong as Cavill undoubtedly is, he was being assisted in the picture by a powerful, mechanical ally. The crane is also just about visible at the very top of the picture, too. What is that suspicious orange thing  at the top? Image:  instagram/ henrycavill /mashable composite We see you, Cavill. BONUS: Things you didn’t know about the recent Batman and Superman films

LONDON — The British actor Henry Cavill is a large man who clearly spends time at the gym, but — despite what his on-screen persona might suggest — he does not possess super-human strength.

SEE ALSO: This Mashup of Every Single Superman Is Totally Dreamy

So how on earth is he holding up this large tree with only one hand?

Is this really the biggest tree you've got? #ChristmasSpiritActivated #GotElves A photo posted by Henry Cavill (@henrycavill) on Dec 16, 2016 at 11:27am PST

Instagram users didn't know quite what to make of it.

Some people were impressed.

Others were confused.

Eventually, though, some people spotted a clue.

The optical illusion becomes clear if you look at the shadows behind him.

Yep: That's the shadow of the crane that's actually holding up the tree. Image: instagram/henrycavill/mashable composite

As strong as Cavill undoubtedly is, he was being assisted in the picture by a powerful, mechanical ally.

The crane is also just about visible at the very top of the picture, too.

What is that suspicious orange thing at the top? Image: instagram/henrycavill/mashable composite

We see you, Cavill.