Two Alameda County Deputies Fired for Role in SF Beating
Two Alameda County Deputies Fired for Role in SF Beating
local Two Alameda County Deputies Fired for Role in SF Beating By Associated Press

Alameda County Sheriff's Deputy Allegedly Stole from Suspect Whose Beating Was Caught on Video

A third Alameda County sheriff's deputy is now on paid leave for possibly stealing from a suspected car thief whose beating was caught on surveillance camera. Terry McSweeney reports. (Published Monday, Mar 28, 2016)

Two Alameda County sheriff's deputies seen on surveillance video beating a man with batons in San Francisco's Mission District have been fired, authorities said.

Deputies Paul Wieber and Luis Santamaria are no longer with the Alameda County sheriff's office as of 5 p.m. Friday, Alameda County Sheriff's spokesman Sgt. Ray Kelly told the San Francisco Chronicle.

Kelly could not provide details on their departure, but Michael Rains, an attorney for Santamaria, said the deputies were fired for their role in the Nov. 12, 2015, beating of Stanislav Petrov.

The deputies were caught on surveillance video striking Petrov more than 40 times with steel batons after a 38-minute car chase from Castro Valley and a foot chase into a dark alley in San Francisco.

The San Francisco District Attorney's Office charged Wieber and Santamaria in May with assault with a deadly weapon, assault under the color of authority and battery. They pleaded not guilty.

The office also opened a criminal investigation against Deputy Shawn Osborne who is seen in the video holding a gold chain that had been taken from Petrov as he lay bleeding on the ground. Osborne allegedly gave the gold chain to a homeless couple who witnessed the incident in exchange for keeping quiet.

Petrov suffered cuts to his head and broken bones in his hands and arms. His attorneys said he also endured mental anguish and fear. He filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against the deputies in August.

Copyright Associated Press