A Study Suggests That Extremely Smart People Are Loners
A Study Suggests That Extremely Smart People Are Loners
A Study Suggests That Extremely Smart People Are Loners The world is full of brilliant Sherlocks and Newt Scamanders who find happiness when they are left alone. A recent study published in the British Journal of Psychology states that highly intelligent people experience lower life satisfaction when they socialize with friends more frequently. The researchers studied the responses of individuals between the age of 18 and 28. They were surveyed according to life satisfaction, intelligence, and health. The results were that being around dense crowds of people typically leads to unhappiness, while socializing with friends typically leads to happiness. It also revealed that smarter people don’t really expect much from friendships and they are more likely to be on their own. They don’t benefit much from their friendships, however, they like to spend more time with people who are not as much as intelligent as them. This does not mean that if you love hanging out with friends then you’re unintelligent. The research simply means that smart people who enjoy their own company aren’t sad loners but their thought processes benefit them the most when they are alone.

The world is full of brilliant Sherlocks and Newt Scamanders who find happiness when they are left alone. A recent study published in the British Journal of Psychology states that highly intelligent people experience lower life satisfaction when they socialize with friends more frequently.

via tumblr

The researchers studied the responses of individuals between the age of 18 and 28. They were surveyed according to life satisfaction, intelligence, and health. The results were that being around dense crowds of people typically leads to unhappiness, while socializing with friends typically leads to happiness.

It also revealed that smarter people don’t really expect much from friendships and they are more likely to be on their own. They don’t benefit much from their friendships, however, they like to spend more time with people who are not as much as intelligent as them.

via metro

This does not mean that if you love hanging out with friends then you’re unintelligent. The research simply means that smart people who enjoy their own company aren’t sad loners but their thought processes benefit them the most when they are alone.