$20,000 reward offered as cops hunt road rage killer of 3-year-old boy
$20,000 reward offered as cops hunt road rage killer of 3-year-old boy
Homicide $20,000 reward offered as cops hunt road rage killer of 3-year-old boy A $20,000 reward is being offered in the hunt for the killer of a 3-year-old boy during a road rage incident Saturday in Arkansas.  Authorities in Little Rock are searching for an older black Chevrolet Impala; however, no description of the suspected shooter has been released. The $20,000 reward is being offered for information leading to the suspect's arrest and conviction. The boy and his grandmother were on a shopping trip and stopped at a stop sign when another driver, apparently angry at the delay, stepped out of his car and opened fire. The boy was hit at least once and the grandmother was not struck. $20,000 reward for the arrest & conviction of the individual(s) involved in this homicide. pic.twitter.com/o8p6W77Hi3 Police Lt. Steve McClanahan said investigators believe the boy and his grandmother “were completely innocent” and have no relationship with Saturday's shooter. He said the grandmother simply was “driving the car and was taking her grandson shopping when the incident occurred.” This is the second deadly Little Rock road rage incident involving a young child in the last few weeks. A 2-year-old girl was killed in November when a suspect who is still at-large drove by the vehicle she was riding in and opened fire. “We cannot have a community to where the least protected among us, being infants, who are dying (in) these senseless crimes in our city,” Police Chief Kenton Buckner said. He said he didn't know if the children's shootings were related.

A $20,000 reward is being offered in the hunt for the killer of a 3-year-old boy during a road rage incident Saturday in Arkansas.



Authorities in Little Rock are searching for an older black Chevrolet Impala; however, no description of the suspected shooter has been released.

The $20,000 reward is being offered for information leading to the suspect's arrest and conviction.

The boy and his grandmother were on a shopping trip and stopped at a stop sign when another driver, apparently angry at the delay, stepped out of his car and opened fire. The boy was hit at least once and the grandmother was not struck.

$20,000 reward for the arrest & conviction of the individual(s) involved in this homicide. pic.twitter.com/o8p6W77Hi3 — Little Rock Police (@LRpolice) December 18, 2016

Police Lt. Steve McClanahan said investigators believe the boy and his grandmother “were completely innocent” and have no relationship with Saturday's shooter. He said the grandmother simply was “driving the car and was taking her grandson shopping when the incident occurred.”

This is the second deadly Little Rock road rage incident involving a young child in the last few weeks. A 2-year-old girl was killed in November when a suspect who is still at-large drove by the vehicle she was riding in and opened fire.

“We cannot have a community to where the least protected among us, being infants, who are dying (in) these senseless crimes in our city,” Police Chief Kenton Buckner said.

He said he didn't know if the children's shootings were related.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.