Of Course 'Rogue One' Totally Smashed the Box Office With a $155 Million Opening
Of Course 'Rogue One' Totally Smashed the Box Office With a $155 Million Opening
amassed copious box office dollars this weekend because, well, . The fist standalone film took in a whopping $155 million at North American theaters,  reported Monday. That's enough to give Gareth Edwards' dazzling war film the second largest December opening ever the second largest debut of 2016. #RogueOne is in theaters today. You know what to do. https://t.co/qFsOOgBHlj  pic.twitter.com/zE3Zg51Go0 The opening weekend haul is a bit higher than Disney's previously reported predictions , which had bagging somewhere between $120 million and $150 million. The film's total estimated global haul, reported by as $290.5 million as of Monday, is just shy of predictions which placed the stokedness-inducing blockbuster in the neighborhood of $300 million. These numbers bode well for future entries in the expanding universe, including that Han Solo standalone which Lucasfilm announced back in October would star mastermind Donald Glover as a young Lando Calrissian. "We're so lucky to have an artist as talented as Donald join us," said directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. "These are big shoes to fill, and an even bigger cape, and this one fits him perfectly, which will save us money on alterations. Also, we'd like to publicly apologize to Donald for ruining Comic-Con for him forever." Hello, what have we here? Donald Glover is Lando Calrissian in the untitled 2018 Han Solo Star Wars Story. https://t.co/ChueOBd0fv  pic.twitter.com/54JOBM1P9K is in theaters now. . Go see it. We think it's pretty fucking good.

Rogue One amassed copious box office dollars this weekend because, well, duh. The fist standalone Star Wars film took in a whopping $155 million at North American theaters, Forbes reported Monday. That's enough to give Gareth Edwards' dazzling war film the second largest December opening ever and the second largest debut of 2016.

The opening weekend haul is a bit higher than Disney's previously reported predictions, which had Rogue One bagging somewhere between $120 million and $150 million. The film's total estimated global haul, reported by Forbes as $290.5 million as of Monday, is just shy of predictions which placed the stokedness-inducing blockbuster in the neighborhood of $300 million.

These numbers bode well for future entries in the expanding Star Wars universe, including that Han Solo standalone which Lucasfilm announced back in October would star Atlanta mastermind Donald Glover as a young Lando Calrissian. "We're so lucky to have an artist as talented as Donald join us," said directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. "These are big shoes to fill, and an even bigger cape, and this one fits him perfectly, which will save us money on alterations. Also, we'd like to publicly apologize to Donald for ruining Comic-Con for him forever."

Hello, what have we here? Donald Glover is Lando Calrissian in the untitled 2018 Han Solo Star Wars Story. https://t.co/ChueOBd0fv pic.twitter.com/54JOBM1P9K — Star Wars (@starwars) October 21, 2016

Rogue One: A Star Wars Story is in theaters now. Obviously. Go see it. We think it's pretty fucking good.