Denver Broncos squabble erupts in locker room after loss to New England Patriots
Report: Broncos' squabble erupts in locker room
Report: Broncos' squabble erupts in locker room Jags name Marrone interim; Bradley lauds Khan Source: Jets QB Petty may play with chest bruise Reports: Browns' Pryor planning to play hurt Jerry: Salvation Army should give Elliott an award Steelers to Hill: Don't disrespect Terrible Towel Best and worst QBs of Week 15: Matt Ryan leads the way The great NFL lessons of 2016 (so far) Emmanuel Sanders reacts to shutdown talk on Twitter AFC East title makes joyous Martellus Bennett forget his past Time for Patriots fans to book a flight to Houston ... again NFL playoff picture: Patriots, Raiders punch their tickets The Big Story for every NFL team Get ready for a Lil Wayne album (or child) named after Ty Montgomery Going for two, and the win, becoming more popular among NFL coaches Vote: Which team will win each NFL division? 'Sidekick' Bruce Irvin: Robin showed up for the Raiders Broncos' playoff to-do list: Keep locker room together, win out Lots of fun as Ezekiel Elliott goes about his work for Cowboys 1 Related Ezekiel Elliott shouldn'€™t have been penalized for Salvation Army celebration Cowboys take bumpy road in inching closer to NFC East title Dak Prescott rebounds against Bucs, quiets critics What 10 wins means for the Giants and their playoff chances Aaron Rodgers shows why no one should want to play the Packers Ravens pumped for biggest regular-season meeting ever with rival Steelers Thanks to Cowboys, Redskins regain control of playoff fate To reclaim winning culture, 49ers need significant change Bills' final two games should matter little in decision about Rex Ryan Steelers amped for much-anticipated 'game of chess' with Ravens Players recall how the biggest plays of Week 15 went down RB Ingram: Need to 'control my emotions better' Parlays give Vegas books another losing weekend Josh Norman hasn't transformed Redskins' D, but he has added value Jets' big-money players have failed, and now it's time to cash out Sticking with Blake Bortles among things that cost Gus Bradley his job 1 Related Tom Coughlin, Todd Haley, Josh McDaniels names to watch in Jaguars search Scary thought for playoff teams: Giants winning with defense 3 Related Another OBJ one-handed catch helps lift Giants Giants on verge of playoffs thanks to home cooking Lions' offense sputters in loss to Giants, snapping win streak Von Miller isn't thinking about the playoffs after losing to the Patriots and plans on taking it one play at a time moving forward. (0:32) Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Covered Broncos for nine years for Denver Post and Rocky Mountain News Previously covered Steelers, Bills and Titans Member of Pro Football Hall of Fame Board of Selectors since 1999 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email print comment DENVER -- The Broncos have had moments this season when their defense shows frustration after games, but things reached a boiling point Sunday night. According to NFL.com, Broncos coach Gary Kubiak had to break up a locker room shouting match between defensive backs and offensive linemen, which escalated when Kubiak asked if anyone would like to address the team after its 16-3 loss to the New England Patriots . Broncos left tackle and relative newcomer Russell Okung had volunteered to speak, but cornerback Aqib Talib objected. Yelling between the two groups then erupted, according to the NFL.com report, which cited sources in the room. "Pretty much your classic offense-versus-defense divide," one player told NFL.com. Multiple team sources told ESPN on Sunday night that the defensive backs and offensive linemen have exchanged postgame words on at least one other occasion in recent weeks. Denver (8-6), the defending Super Bowl champion, is in third place in the AFC West. The Broncos must win out and would still need help to earn a wild-card berth. "Everybody's frustrated," cornerback Chris Harris Jr. told ESPN on Sunday. "We feel like we played almost good enough defense to win that game. I don't know if [we] ever kept [Tom] Brady under 16 points, and we did that today. That's what makes you sick, when we come out and play stout like we did today." A smattering of Broncos defensive players called their time spent on the field in recent games "our quota." The group has played at least 76 snaps in four of the past seven games -- including 81 plays in Jacksonville -- a high number for any defense. On Sunday, the Patriots had the ball for 73 plays. "I definitely understand their frustration," Okung told NFL.com, in reference to the Broncos' defensive backs. "They played well enough to win, and they held that team to 16 points, which a lot of teams don't do. We're an emotional team. That's what makes us so good. To me, that's part of who we are." "When our defense is out there, they're an emotional group, and they hold themselves to a high standard," added Okung, who signed with the Broncos in March after six seasons with the Seattle Seahawks . "As an offense, we need to do the same. So I think [their frustration] is warranted. We've got to be better." Broncos safety T.J. Ward called the incident a byproduct of "a little frustration." "We are an emotional group," Ward told NFL.com. "That's why we play as well as we do. What happened wasn't even anything major -- just a little frustration. We're all trying to win." Kubiak has consistently said he believes the team has good leadership and has worked through previous heat-of-the-moment blowups. Talib pushed Jordan Norwood after the wide receiver muffed a punt in a Nov. 27 loss. Norwood muffed another punt Sunday that led to a Patriots field goal. Talib and Norwood met one-on-one the morning after their incident to smooth things over. After Sunday's game, Talib took a softer public stance when he was asked if frustrations had boiled over. "That's really not going to take us nowhere, though, just being frustrated," Talib said. "And beefing with the offense [is] not going to get us nowhere. We're going to ride. We're going to stick together." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Von Miller isn't thinking about the playoffs after losing to the Patriots and plans on taking it one play at a time moving forward. (0:32)

DENVER -- The Broncos have had moments this season when their defense shows frustration after games, but things reached a boiling point Sunday night.

According to NFL.com, Broncos coach Gary Kubiak had to break up a locker room shouting match between defensive backs and offensive linemen, which escalated when Kubiak asked if anyone would like to address the team after its 16-3 loss to the New England Patriots.

Broncos left tackle and relative newcomer Russell Okung had volunteered to speak, but cornerback Aqib Talib objected. Yelling between the two groups then erupted, according to the NFL.com report, which cited sources in the room.

"Pretty much your classic offense-versus-defense divide," one player told NFL.com.

Editor's Picks Broncos' playoff to-do list: Keep locker room together, win out The Broncos need to win their final two games to have a chance at the playoffs while their frustrated defense continues to stew.

Brady leads Patriots to 16-3 win over Broncos Tom Brady overcame a slow start to lead the New England Patriots to a rare win in Denver on Sunday, a 16-3 grinder that dealt a crushing blow to the Broncos' playoff hopes. 1 Related

Multiple team sources told ESPN on Sunday night that the defensive backs and offensive linemen have exchanged postgame words on at least one other occasion in recent weeks.

Denver (8-6), the defending Super Bowl champion, is in third place in the AFC West. The Broncos must win out and would still need help to earn a wild-card berth.

"Everybody's frustrated," cornerback Chris Harris Jr. told ESPN on Sunday. "We feel like we played almost good enough defense to win that game. I don't know if [we] ever kept [Tom] Brady under 16 points, and we did that today. That's what makes you sick, when we come out and play stout like we did today."

A smattering of Broncos defensive players called their time spent on the field in recent games "our quota." The group has played at least 76 snaps in four of the past seven games -- including 81 plays in Jacksonville -- a high number for any defense.

On Sunday, the Patriots had the ball for 73 plays.

"I definitely understand their frustration," Okung told NFL.com, in reference to the Broncos' defensive backs. "They played well enough to win, and they held that team to 16 points, which a lot of teams don't do. We're an emotional team. That's what makes us so good. To me, that's part of who we are."

"When our defense is out there, they're an emotional group, and they hold themselves to a high standard," added Okung, who signed with the Broncos in March after six seasons with the Seattle Seahawks. "As an offense, we need to do the same. So I think [their frustration] is warranted. We've got to be better."

Broncos safety T.J. Ward called the incident a byproduct of "a little frustration."

"We are an emotional group," Ward told NFL.com. "That's why we play as well as we do. What happened wasn't even anything major -- just a little frustration. We're all trying to win."

Kubiak has consistently said he believes the team has good leadership and has worked through previous heat-of-the-moment blowups. Talib pushed Jordan Norwood after the wide receiver muffed a punt in a Nov. 27 loss. Norwood muffed another punt Sunday that led to a Patriots field goal.

Talib and Norwood met one-on-one the morning after their incident to smooth things over. After Sunday's game, Talib took a softer public stance when he was asked if frustrations had boiled over.

"That's really not going to take us nowhere, though, just being frustrated," Talib said. "And beefing with the offense [is] not going to get us nowhere. We're going to ride. We're going to stick together."