Women who drink two glasses of wine a night 'should be sent for liver scans by their GPs'
Women who drink two glasses of wine a night 'should be sent for liver scans by their GPs' 
omen who drink two glasses of wine a night should be sent for scans by their GPs to check for cirrhosis, new NHS guidance says. The advice from the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice) says around 2 million people are drinking at levels which put them at risk of potentially fatal disease. GPs are being told that men who drink three pints of beer a night, and women consuming two glasses of wine nightly are among those who should be sent for checks for scarring to the liver, also known as cirrhosis. Britain is the worst country in the western world for heavy drinking among professional women, with those with a good education twice as likely to be problem drinkers, research shows. Britain is the worst country in the western world for heavy drinking among professional women , with those with a good education twice as likely to be problem drinkers, research shows. But last night Nice was accused of needlessly frightening those who enjoyed a drink, in a “colossal waste of NHS resources,” with critics saying such checks were too indiscriminate. It follows a recent clampdowns on recommended safe limits for alcohol, amid warnings from the chief medical officer to “do as I do” and think about the risks of cancer before having a drink. he new Nice advice says men drinking more than 50 units of alcohol a week - or 22 pints of regular-strength beer  should be offered the scans. Women drinking more than 35 units per week - which means two 175ml glasses of wine a night, will also be targeted by GPs. Watchdogs said earlier diagnosis of liver scarring would ensure patients receive treatment and support to manage their condition. But they said current access to the tests was varied, calling for far more to be done for those at risk of liver disease. Charities welcomed the recommendations which they said would give many people “pause for thought”. Liver disease is now the fifth largest cause of death in England and Wales, with almost 8,000 deaths annually, with cases of cirrhosis rising by almost 50 per cent in a decade. But critics said it went too far, suggesting the health lobby had become “victims of their own propaganda.” Earlier this year, the Government triggered controversy with new advice, which brought down recommended safe limits of alcohol, bringing men into line with women. The guidelines recommend a maximum 14 units a week - seven medium glasses of wine - for both men and women.   ndrew Misell at Alcohol Concern, said: “This recommendation is going to give quite a few of us a pause for thought. We tend to think of liver disease as a problem for seriously heavy drinkers, but these figures – five bottles of wine a week for men, and three and a half for women – will match a lot of people’s consumption.  He called on retailers to do more to help drinkers cut back, criticising discounts for those buying more than six bottles of wine at a time. “Clearly, some of us really do need to cut back, but we can’t just blame ordinary drinkers. Supermarkets need to take their share of responsibility too,” he said. Christopher Snowdon, head of lifestyle economics at the Institute of Economic Affairs criticised the recommendations. “The average liver cirrhosis patients drinks vastly more than 35 units a week. Unnecessarily testing millions of people on the basis of an arbitrary target would be a colossal waste of NHS resources,” he said.  “There are chronic drinkers out there who would benefit from a liver test, but these people should be referred by their GP. The health service has a limited budget. It should target people who need help rather than indiscriminately those who do not.” ave Roberts, director general of industry body, the Alcohol Information Partnership, said the advice was “confusing,” and at odds with the Government advice in using different thresholds for men and women. “The majority of people in the UK enjoy a drink in a convivial and moderate manner as part of a healthy lifestyle,” he said, with recent data showing the vast majority of men and women drink less than 14 units a week. The draft quality standard, out for consultation until February, also calls for all those diagnosed with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease to be regularly tested for advanced liver fibrosis – so they can be given help to prevent it developing into cirrhosis. Professor Gillian Leng, deputy chief executive of Nice said: “Many people with liver disease do not show symptoms until it is too late. “If it is tackled at an early stage, simple lifestyle changes or treatments can be enough for the liver to recover. Early diagnosis is vital, as is action to both prevent and halt the damage that drinking too much alcohol can do. Last year research by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development found Britain is the worst country in the western world for heavy drinking among professional women . The OECD research shows women in this country are twice as likely to be problem drinkers if they have a good education. Authors warned that Britain is one of the few countries in the world in which professional women appear to be drinking to keep up with men.  ne in five women in England who has been to university regularly drinks too much, the report found – compared with one in ten of those with lower levels of education. The research found that the link between high levels of education among women and hazardous drinking was stronger in this country than in any other. Mark Pearson, OECD head of health, said the trends reflected “the dark side of equality” with middle-class women risking their health as they adopted traditional male drinking habits. ritain's binge drinking levels are among the highest in the world, international research has found . Last  year there were 7,974 deaths from liver disease in England and Wales, with a 49 per cent rise in diagnoses of cirrhosis in the last decade. In the past diagnosing cirrhosis meant liver biopsies, but advances in testing mean it can be tested much more easily, experts said. Dr Andrew Fowell, consultant hepatologist at Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust and specialist committee member, said:“Identifying people who are at risk of liver disease and offering them non-invasive testing to diagnose cirrhosis is key to ensuring they are given the treatment and support they need early enough to prevent serious complications.”

Women who drink two glasses of wine a night should be sent for scans by their GPs to check for cirrhosis, new NHS guidance says.

The advice from the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice) says around 2 million people are drinking at levels which put them at risk of potentially fatal disease.

GPs are being told that men who drink three pints of beer a night, and women consuming two glasses of wine nightly are among those who should be sent for checks for scarring to the liver, also known as cirrhosis.

Britain is the worst country in the western world for heavy drinking among professional women, with those with a good education twice as likely to be problem drinkers, research shows.

Britain is the worst country in the western world for heavy drinking among professional women, with those with a good education twice as likely to be problem drinkers, research shows.

But last night Nice was accused of needlessly frightening those who enjoyed a drink, in a “colossal waste of NHS resources,” with critics saying such checks were too indiscriminate.

It follows a recent clampdowns on recommended safe limits for alcohol, amid warnings from the chief medical officer to “do as I do” and think about the risks of cancer before having a drink.