Mark Cuban Tells Trump How To Invest In Infrastructure And It's Not What You Think
Mark Cuban Tells Trump How To Invest In Infrastructure And It's Not What You Think
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Adam Sarhan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President-Elect Donald Trump wants to invest $1 trillion on improving the country's infrastructure over the next ten years. When you think about government spending money on rojects such as: Airports, Roads, Bridges, etc. Mr. Cuban wants to invest a portion of the money in a different direction: Robotics. : Good R.O.I. On Sunday (12/18/16), billionaire investor, Mark Cuban outlined his thoughts in a blog post titled, " Dear Mr President , My Suggestion for Infrastructure Spending ."  Interestingly, Mr. Cuban is actually a fan of spending on Mark Cuban speaks onstage during the THRIVE with Arianna Huffington panel at The Town Hall during 2016 Advertising Week New York on September 28, 2016 in New York City. (Photo by Slaven Vlasic/Getty Images for Advertising Week New York) : Robotics can be defined in many ways and has many layers. For the scope of this article, I define Robotics as: a science that creates machines that can operate autonomously, collect sensory feedback, and process information. America has led the world in innovation for the last century and Mr. Cuban wants to make sure the U.S. keeps its lead. Mr. Cuban points out that none of the companies that currently makes robotics are based in the U.S. & from his point of view, that's a big problem (and it needs to be solved). Mr. Cuban went on to say, " : Like it or not, technology continues to advance at a rapid clip. We already live in a world with driver-less cars, electric cars, face-time on mobile devices, the "internet of things," and who knows what else is around the corner. Mr. Cuban closes by saying, " " : Any student of the stock market can point to countless examples of big leading stocks that have soared after innovating in a big way. Most recently, over the past 100 years you can see: railroads, then automobile manufactures ~100 years ago, then came the airlines, then enter any big tech stock that exists today - all soared since 1980, you can also add other big disruptors such as: Starbucks (SBUX), Under Armour (UA), Netflix (NFLX), Apple (AAPL), Facebook (FB), Alphabet (GOOGL), Nike (NKE), etc - (there are way too many  names for me to cover since the first public security was traded on the NYSE in 1792, but I trust you get my point). Investors, love companies that revolutionize the way people (consumers and/or businesses) live their life. Since, we are still in the very early stages of this new technology, it will be very interesting to see what stocks (if any) come out and offer investors a legitimate way to invest in this space (by legitimate, I mean institutional quality stocks, not some no-name penny stock that "invests" in robotics that no-one knows). If done right, robotics could offer investors a great R.O.I. over the next decade or two (or more). 30 Great Moments In The History Of Robots     Trending on {{channel_name}}

President-Elect Donald Trump wants to invest $1 trillion on improving the country's infrastructure over the next ten years. When you think about government spending money on infrastructure, you typically think about massive projects such as: Airports, Roads, Bridges, etc. Mr. Cuban wants to invest a portion of the money in a different direction: Robotics.

Cuban Is A Fan of Infrastructure Spending: Good R.O.I.

On Sunday (12/18/16), billionaire investor, Mark Cuban outlined his thoughts in a blog post titled, "Dear Mr President , My Suggestion for Infrastructure Spending." Interestingly, Mr. Cuban is actually a fan of spending on infrastructure. Cuban wrote, "I strongly believe that any reasonable businessperson, even one who works for the government, should be able to invest money at 1% interest rates and get a better than 2% return on taxpayer money."

Robotics Are The Future:

Robotics can be defined in many ways and has many layers. For the scope of this article, I define Robotics as: a science that creates machines that can operate autonomously, collect sensory feedback, and process information. America has led the world in innovation for the last century and Mr. Cuban wants to make sure the U.S. keeps its lead. Mr. Cuban points out that none of the companies that currently makes robotics are based in the U.S. & from his point of view, that's a big problem (and it needs to be solved). Mr. Cuban went on to say, "If it was me spending the money, I would take 100 billion of the proposed $ 1 Trillion dollars in infrastructure investment and invest it in Robotics. I would invest it in the companies that do R&D, software, and design for robots and every other facet of the Robotics Industry."

Look Forwards, Not Backwards:

Like it or not, technology continues to advance at a rapid clip. We already live in a world with driver-less cars, electric cars, face-time on mobile devices, the "internet of things," and who knows what else is around the corner. Mr. Cuban closes by saying, "Our “infrastructure” spending should look forwards, not backwards so that we can be the robotics hub of the world."

Investors Love New Technology:

Any student of the stock market can point to countless examples of big leading stocks that have soared after innovating in a big way. Most recently, over the past 100 years you can see: railroads, then automobile manufactures ~100 years ago, then came the airlines, then enter any big tech stock that exists today - all soared since 1980, you can also add other big disruptors such as: Starbucks (SBUX), Under Armour (UA), Netflix (NFLX), Apple (AAPL), Facebook (FB), Alphabet (GOOGL), Nike (NKE), etc - (there are way too many names for me to cover since the first public security was traded on the NYSE in 1792, but I trust you get my point).

Investors, love companies that revolutionize the way people (consumers and/or businesses) live their life. Since, we are still in the very early stages of this new technology, it will be very interesting to see what stocks (if any) come out and offer investors a legitimate way to invest in this space (by legitimate, I mean institutional quality stocks, not some no-name penny stock that "invests" in robotics that no-one knows). If done right, robotics could offer investors a great R.O.I. over the next decade or two (or more).