Berlin 'attack': 'Several killed' after lorry ploughs into Christmas market
Berlin 'attack': 'Several killed' after lorry ploughs into Christmas market
A lorry ploughed through a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring 50, in what police said was probably a deliberate attack. A suspect was arrested, police said. They are thought to be the driver. The co-driver "died on the spot", police added. Citing police at the scene, German media said first indications pointed to an attack on the market, situated at the foot of the ruined Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church, which was kept as a bombed-out ruin after World War Two. Wir können 9 Tote & viele Verletzte bestätigen. Viele Kolleg. sind am #Breitscheidplatz im Einsatz um die Hintergründe zu ermitteln. Eyewitnesses reported that the lorry entered the market "at some speed - perhaps as high as 40mph", knocking down stalls before eventually coming to a standstill. Video showed destroyed hoardings and stalls. Mike Fox, a tourist from Birmingham, said that the lorry missed him by only about three meters as it drove into the market, tearing through tables and wooden stands. "It was definitely deliberate," he said, adding that he helped people who appeared to have broken limbs, and that others were trapped under Christmas stands. Another, Emma Rushton agreed that "it wasn't an accident." She told Sky News : "It was going at 40mph through the middle of the market. There was no way it could have come off the road and it showed no signs of slowing down." Lorry just ploughed through Christmas market in #berlin . There is no road nearby. People crushed. I am safe. I am safe pic.twitter.com/63iWMmdSKr She added: "There were lots and lots of people, this is Monday evening, people had finished work. There were tourists there." Jan Hollitzer, deputy editor in chief of the Berliner Morgenpost said: "I heard a big noise and then I moved on the Christmas market and saw much chaos...many injured people,"  "It was really traumatic." A photo posted by his newspaper showed damaged tables and stalls. Berlin Christmas market lorry attack               Berlin Christmas market lorry attack       Several people have been killed after a lorry drove into crowds at a Christmas market in Berlin   REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch        'At least nine' people have been killed and more than 50 injured.   AP        Emergency Services rush a Berlin market victim to an ambulance   Associated Press        Police cordoned off the square at Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church following the incident   REUTERS        Rescue workers inspect the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market close to the Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church in Berlin   EPA        Emergency crews inspect the lorry that ploughed into a Berlin Christmas market, killing at least nine people   AFP        Fire crews attend the scene of the attack   AFP/Getty        Armed police secure the site of a lorry attack at a Christmas market in Berlin   REUTERS        Crushed debris is visible beneath the wheels of the vehicle   REUTERS        An injured man is pushed to an ambulance   REUTERS        Medics attend an injured person after the lorry attack which killed at least nine and injured more than 50 people   AFP/Getty        Firefighters examine the lorry which was rammed into a Berlin Christmas market   REUTERS        A person is carried into an ambulance   REUTERS        View of the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring at least 50 people   AFP/Getty        Rescue workers push a person on a stretcher to an ambulance   Getty        Firefighters assess the damage after the lorry rammed the Christmas market, killing 'at least nine', and injuring more than 50 people   AP        Firefighters stand beside a toppled Christmas tree at the site of the suspected terrorist attack in a Berlin Christmas market   AP        Damaged stalls at the scene of the incident at a Berlin Christmas market where at least nine people have been killed   EPA   Police cars and ambulances converged quickly on the scene as a huge security operation unfolded. The fate of the driver of the truck was not immediately clear, but Bild newspaper said he was on the run. The incident evoked memories of the attack of the July attack in the French town of Nice when a Tunisian-born man drove a 19-tonne truck along the beach front, mowing down people who had gathered to watch the fireworks on Bastille Day, killing 86 people. The attack was claimed by Isis. More about: Berlin Christmas market Berlin Christmas market attack Berlin Germany Comments

A lorry ploughed through a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring 50, in what police said was probably a deliberate attack.

A suspect was arrested, police said. They are thought to be the driver. The co-driver "died on the spot", police added.

Citing police at the scene, German media said first indications pointed to an attack on the market, situated at the foot of the ruined Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church, which was kept as a bombed-out ruin after World War Two.

Wir können 9 Tote & viele Verletzte bestätigen. Viele Kolleg. sind am #Breitscheidplatz im Einsatz um die Hintergründe zu ermitteln. — Polizei Berlin (@polizeiberlin) December 19, 2016

Eyewitnesses reported that the lorry entered the market "at some speed - perhaps as high as 40mph", knocking down stalls before eventually coming to a standstill.

Video showed destroyed hoardings and stalls.

Mike Fox, a tourist from Birmingham, said that the lorry missed him by only about three meters as it drove into the market, tearing through tables and wooden stands.

"It was definitely deliberate," he said, adding that he helped people who appeared to have broken limbs, and that others were trapped under Christmas stands.

Another, Emma Rushton agreed that "it wasn't an accident."

She told Sky News: "It was going at 40mph through the middle of the market. There was no way it could have come off the road and it showed no signs of slowing down."

Lorry just ploughed through Christmas market in #berlin. There is no road nearby. People crushed. I am safe. I am safe pic.twitter.com/63iWMmdSKr — Emma Rushton (@ERushton) December 19, 2016

She added: "There were lots and lots of people, this is Monday evening, people had finished work. There were tourists there."

Jan Hollitzer, deputy editor in chief of the Berliner Morgenpost said: "I heard a big noise and then I moved on the Christmas market and saw much chaos...many injured people," "It was really traumatic."

A photo posted by his newspaper showed damaged tables and stalls.

Berlin Christmas market lorry attack







18 show all Berlin Christmas market lorry attack

































1/18 Several people have been killed after a lorry drove into crowds at a Christmas market in Berlin REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch

2/18 'At least nine' people have been killed and more than 50 injured. AP

3/18 Emergency Services rush a Berlin market victim to an ambulance Associated Press

4/18 Police cordoned off the square at Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church following the incident REUTERS

5/18 Rescue workers inspect the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market close to the Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church in Berlin EPA

6/18 Emergency crews inspect the lorry that ploughed into a Berlin Christmas market, killing at least nine people AFP

7/18 Fire crews attend the scene of the attack AFP/Getty

8/18 Armed police secure the site of a lorry attack at a Christmas market in Berlin REUTERS

9/18 Crushed debris is visible beneath the wheels of the vehicle REUTERS

10/18 An injured man is pushed to an ambulance REUTERS

11/18 Medics attend an injured person after the lorry attack which killed at least nine and injured more than 50 people AFP/Getty

12/18 Firefighters examine the lorry which was rammed into a Berlin Christmas market REUTERS

13/18 A person is carried into an ambulance REUTERS

14/18 View of the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring at least 50 people AFP/Getty

15/18 Rescue workers push a person on a stretcher to an ambulance Getty

16/18 Firefighters assess the damage after the lorry rammed the Christmas market, killing 'at least nine', and injuring more than 50 people AP

17/18 Firefighters stand beside a toppled Christmas tree at the site of the suspected terrorist attack in a Berlin Christmas market AP

18/18 Damaged stalls at the scene of the incident at a Berlin Christmas market where at least nine people have been killed EPA

Police cars and ambulances converged quickly on the scene as a huge security operation unfolded. The fate of the driver of the truck was not immediately clear, but Bild newspaper said he was on the run.

The incident evoked memories of the attack of the July attack in the French town of Nice when a Tunisian-born man drove a 19-tonne truck along the beach front, mowing down people who had gathered to watch the fireworks on Bastille Day, killing 86 people. The attack was claimed by Isis.