20 Rising Web Development And Design Blogs To Follow In 2017
20 Rising Web Development And Design Blogs To Follow In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Tomas Laurinavicius       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Today I'm sharing a handy list of 20 rising web development and design blogs to follow next year. Photo credit: Ovan/StockSnap. A year ago I listed 25 promising digital design blogs to follow . When you look back, you notice how much have changed. If you're aiming to become a successful entrepreneur or a freelancer, you must learn marketing, design and web development. Today I'm sharing a handy list of 20 rising web development and design blogs to follow next year. In the list below, you'll find established experts and promising newcomers sharing useful content from latest design news to smart WordPress hacks. Webdesigner Depot is focused on web design news, views, techniques, and resources. Posting daily articles and delivering them straight to your inbox each morning. Design Bombs is covering several categories ranging from roundups of fresh website designs, WordPress, freebies and exclusive deals. Image credit: Design Bombs. Design Bombs is covering several categories ranging from roundups of fresh website designs, WordPress, freebies and exclusive deals. Oberlo blog is sharing solid advice for freelancers on all subjects needed to run a successful eCommerce business. You'll find marketing and design tutorials, trends and more. Designer Daily is a blog for designers and web developers. The main categories are graphic design, web design, advertising, typography, photography, art, illustration and interior design. Backlinko is the place for next-level SEO training and link building strategies. You'll find in-depth and value-packed articles. Vandelay Design blog's primary focus is to equip creatives, small business owners, and entrepreneurs with the right tools to make their business venture a success. WPKube is an online resource which focuses on WordPress tutorials, how-to's, plugins, hosting, coupons, news, and much more. Onextrapixel is an online magazine and resource site for designers and web developers. Image credit: Onextrapixel. Onextrapixel is an online magazine and resource site for designers and web developers. It focuses on useful tips, news, tutorials, tools and resources, on design, development, and other inspirational topics. The industry's top experts are sharing their knowledge and expertise. Here you will get the best advice, research, how-to's, and insights—all in the name of helping you level-up your SEO and online marketing skills. The primary goal of Creative Boom online magazine is to inspire and support the creative community.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

A year ago I listed 25 promising digital design blogs to follow. When you look back, you notice how much have changed. If you're aiming to become a successful entrepreneur or a freelancer, you must learn marketing, design and web development.

Today I'm sharing a handy list of 20 rising web development and design blogs to follow next year.

In the list below, you'll find established experts and promising newcomers sharing useful content from latest design news to smart WordPress hacks.

Webdesigner Depot

Webdesigner Depot is focused on web design news, views, techniques, and resources. Posting daily articles and delivering them straight to your inbox each morning.

Design Bombs

Design Bombs is covering several categories ranging from roundups of fresh website designs, WordPress, freebies and exclusive deals.

Oberlo Blog

Oberlo blog is sharing solid advice for freelancers on all subjects needed to run a successful eCommerce business. You'll find marketing and design tutorials, trends and more.

Designer Daily

Designer Daily is a blog for designers and web developers. The main categories are graphic design, web design, advertising, typography, photography, art, illustration and interior design.

Backlinko

Backlinko is the place for next-level SEO training and link building strategies. You'll find in-depth and value-packed articles.

Vandelay Design

Vandelay Design blog's primary focus is to equip creatives, small business owners, and entrepreneurs with the right tools to make their business venture a success.

WPKube

WPKube is an online resource which focuses on WordPress tutorials, how-to's, plugins, hosting, coupons, news, and much more.

Onextrapixel

Onextrapixel is an online magazine and resource site for designers and web developers. It focuses on useful tips, news, tutorials, tools and resources, on design, development, and other inspirational topics.

The Moz Blog

The industry's top experts are sharing their knowledge and expertise. Here you will get the best advice, research, how-to's, and insights—all in the name of helping you level-up your SEO and online marketing skills.

Creative Boom

The primary goal of Creative Boom online magazine is to inspire and support the creative community.

WPLift