Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 'Bathroom Law' Will Be Repealed in Special Session
Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 Will Be Repealed in Special Session
Shares               North Carolina Governor-elect Roy Cooper said legislative leaders have promised there will be a special session Tuesday to repeal the controversial House Bill 2, known as HB2, or the "bathroom bill." The law requires public schools, public college campuses and government agencies to designate multiple-occupancy bathrooms and changing facilities, such as locker rooms, for use only by people based on their "biological sex" stated on their birth certificate. Under the law, transgender people may not use bathrooms and changing facilities that correspond to their gender identity unless they get the sex on their birth certificate changed. Cooper's announcement today came after the Charlotte City Council met this morning and voted 10-0 to rescind its local LGBT ordinance that led to HB2, The Charlotte Observer reported . "Senate Leader Phil Berger and House Speaker Tim Moore assured me that as a result of Charlotte's vote, a special session will be called for Tuesday to repeal HB2 in full," Cooper said in a statement today. "I hope they will keep their word to me and with the help of Democrats in the legislature, HB2 will be repealed in full. Full repeal will help to bring jobs, sports and entertainment events back and will provide the opportunity for strong LGBT protections in our state." Today's move by the Charlotte City Council is dependent on state legislators fully repealing HB2 by Dec. 31, according to The Associated Press.       Outgoing Republican Gov. Pat McCrory came under fire earlier this year for signing HB2 into law. The law's supporters say it's necessary to protect women and children from sexual offenders who might claim to be transgender in order to access bathrooms of the opposite sex. Cooper, a Democrat, has called HB2 "one of the most discriminatory laws in the country" and argued that the bill should be repealed. The NBA announced in July that it was moving the 2017 All-Star Weekend out of Charlotte over concerns about HB2 -- one of the most high-profile hit to the city economy due to the controversial law. McCrory conceded the North Carolina gubernatorial race to Cooper earlier this month, weeks after Election Day and after requesting a recount. A statement this morning from McCrory's press secretary, Graham Wilson, said, "As promised, Governor McCrory will call a special session." "Governor McCrory has always publicly advocated a repeal of the overreaching Charlotte ordinance. But those efforts were always blocked by [Charlotte Mayor] Jennifer Roberts, Roy Cooper and other Democratic activists," Wilson said. "This sudden reversal with little notice after the gubernatorial election sadly proves this entire issue originated by the political left was all about politics and winning the governor’s race at the expense of Charlotte and our entire state." Shares                  Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 Will Be Repealed in Special Session   Russia's Ambassador to Turkey Assassinated   Thousands Evacuated From Aleppo as UN Votes to Monitor the Area   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Woman Pleads Not Guilty in Sandy Hook Parent Death Threat   China Expected to Return US Navy Drone 'Soon'   2nd-Grader Gives Holiday Presents to Entire School   Military Mom Returns Home to Surprise Daughter at Dance Recital   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   NATO, Russia Discuss Air Safety Talks but Differ on Ukraine   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Trump Action on Health Care Could Cost Planned Parenthood   Bill Cast as Christie Attack on Newspapers Is Set for Vote   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   McCain Sees Russia Hacking as Threat, at Odds With Trump   Senior GOP Lawmaker Calls for Investigation of CIA Director Over Media Leaks on Russian Hacking   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   'Fuller House' Cast on Season 2, Coming Back to the Show as Moms   Gunmen Kill 10, Including Canadian, in Attacks on Police   Donor Breast Milk Safety Guidelines Issued by Top Pediatrics Group   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Marion Cotillard on 'Assassin's Creed' and Her Holiday Traditions   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

North Carolina Governor-elect Roy Cooper said legislative leaders have promised there will be a special session Tuesday to repeal the controversial House Bill 2, known as HB2, or the "bathroom bill."

The law requires public schools, public college campuses and government agencies to designate multiple-occupancy bathrooms and changing facilities, such as locker rooms, for use only by people based on their "biological sex" stated on their birth certificate. Under the law, transgender people may not use bathrooms and changing facilities that correspond to their gender identity unless they get the sex on their birth certificate changed.

Cooper's announcement today came after the Charlotte City Council met this morning and voted 10-0 to rescind its local LGBT ordinance that led to HB2, The Charlotte Observer reported.

"Senate Leader Phil Berger and House Speaker Tim Moore assured me that as a result of Charlotte's vote, a special session will be called for Tuesday to repeal HB2 in full," Cooper said in a statement today. "I hope they will keep their word to me and with the help of Democrats in the legislature, HB2 will be repealed in full. Full repeal will help to bring jobs, sports and entertainment events back and will provide the opportunity for strong LGBT protections in our state."

Today's move by the Charlotte City Council is dependent on state legislators fully repealing HB2 by Dec. 31, according to The Associated Press.

Outgoing Republican Gov. Pat McCrory came under fire earlier this year for signing HB2 into law.

The law's supporters say it's necessary to protect women and children from sexual offenders who might claim to be transgender in order to access bathrooms of the opposite sex.

Cooper, a Democrat, has called HB2 "one of the most discriminatory laws in the country" and argued that the bill should be repealed.

The NBA announced in July that it was moving the 2017 All-Star Weekend out of Charlotte over concerns about HB2 -- one of the most high-profile hit to the city economy due to the controversial law.

McCrory conceded the North Carolina gubernatorial race to Cooper earlier this month, weeks after Election Day and after requesting a recount.

A statement this morning from McCrory's press secretary, Graham Wilson, said, "As promised, Governor McCrory will call a special session."

"Governor McCrory has always publicly advocated a repeal of the overreaching Charlotte ordinance. But those efforts were always blocked by [Charlotte Mayor] Jennifer Roberts, Roy Cooper and other Democratic activists," Wilson said. "This sudden reversal with little notice after the gubernatorial election sadly proves this entire issue originated by the political left was all about politics and winning the governor’s race at the expense of Charlotte and our entire state."