Tegan and Sara Launch Justice-Fighting Foundation For LGBTQ Girls and Women
Tegan and Sara Launch Justice-Fighting Foundation For LGBTQ Girls and Women
How 'The Shared Live Experience' & Even Streaming Fueled the $25 Billion Concert Biz 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Tegan and Sara Launch Justice-Fighting Foundation For LGBTQ Girls and Women  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The sister duo of Tegan and Sara have officially launched a new foundation, The Tegan and Sara Foundation . The sisters penned a letter on the foundation's official site that explained the overall goal: "Our mission is to fight for economic justice, health, and representation for LGBTQ girls and women." The two continued to share how this mission has always been close to their hearts. "Since the beginning of our career, our LGBTQ fans have supported us in innumerable ways," they wrote. "Our journey navigating sexism and homophobia in the music industry has always been interwoven with the stories you share with us."  Following the release of their latest album, -- which reached No. 16 on the Billboard 200 -- the Quin twins have been busy touring across North America and made the most of their time on the road. "We played shows every night, but it was also an important listening and learning tour for us," they continue in the letter. "Every day we read your letters. We met with local fans, youth activists, researchers, legislators, and nonprofits working tirelessly to promote LGBTQ equality. We were deeply inspired by their work." That inspiration has since resulted in this foundation, which will provide an outlet so that "we can be proactive with our support rather than wait to react to discrimination as it occurs." The final few sentences of the letter laid out exactly what the Tegan and Sara Foundation will fight for, and ended with a simple call to action: "Join us." Read the full letter here .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The sister duo of Tegan and Sara have officially launched a new foundation, The Tegan and Sara Foundation. The sisters penned a letter on the foundation's official site that explained the overall goal: "Our mission is to fight for economic justice, health, and representation for LGBTQ girls and women."

The two continued to share how this mission has always been close to their hearts. "Since the beginning of our career, our LGBTQ fans have supported us in innumerable ways," they wrote. "Our journey navigating sexism and homophobia in the music industry has always been interwoven with the stories you share with us."

Following the release of their latest album, Love You To Death -- which reached No. 16 on the Billboard 200 -- the Quin twins have been busy touring across North America and made the most of their time on the road. "We played shows every night, but it was also an important listening and learning tour for us," they continue in the letter. "Every day we read your letters. We met with local fans, youth activists, researchers, legislators, and nonprofits working tirelessly to promote LGBTQ equality. We were deeply inspired by their work."

That inspiration has since resulted in this foundation, which will provide an outlet so that "we can be proactive with our support rather than wait to react to discrimination as it occurs." The final few sentences of the letter laid out exactly what the Tegan and Sara Foundation will fight for, and ended with a simple call to action: "Join us."

Read the full letter here.