6 Holiday Finance Tips To Help Manage Your Seasonal Spending
6 Holiday Finance Tips To Help Manage Your Seasonal Spending
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Emily Drewry       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. 'Tis the season for office parties, gift guides and festive trips—but extra gifts and celebration often come with an added burden on your budget . Even if you haven't kept your financial goals top of mind during the first half of December, it's not too late to turn it around. FORBES investing contributor Joshua Becker joined us for an #AskForbes Twitter chat to share some advice to keep seasonal spending in check for the rest of 2016. As the "Minimalism is definitely harder during the holiday season because there are societal forces working against it," says Becker. Knowing your in for a challenge can help you keep your mind set on success when the going gets tough. Becker recommends establishing clear spending boundaries for categories such as gifts, travel and experiences to hold yourself accountable during the holiday season. That goes for both pre- and post-spending. "You need to be diligent in not just budgeting for gifts," he says, "but also keeping records of your current level of spending." Google and Amazon are full of holiday deals that can give your budget a break. Don't be afraid to dive a little deeper to find what you're looking for elsewhere: Becker recommends Craigslist and eBay for purchasing used items. Not everyone is in the financial situation to give gifts during the holidays, stresses Becker. If giving to someone with a disposable budget, communication is key. "Focus on getting something to ease their life, but not extravagant that they'll feel guilty not reciprocating." After all, the focus of the season isn't about quantity, but rather quality. Thoughtfulness and time are two things money cannot provide, but they make all the difference when gift-giving. Says Becker, Shutterstock Everyone knows it's best to practice what you preach, so if you're hoping to cut down on your seasonal spending, it's fair to hope those around you would follow your lead. To ease the pressure of minimal spending from your friends and family, offer gift recommendations that avoid high spending. Experiences are a perfect alternative to counteract the mindless giving of 'stuff' that often takes over during the holidays. Receiving push-back? " It's a little too late for 2016, but it's never too early to start preparing for the 2017 holiday season. If you value giving gifts during this time of the year, " Above all? Remember what the holidays are all about. "    Trending on {{channel_name}}

'Tis the season for office parties, gift guides and festive trips—but extra gifts and celebration often come with an added burden on your budget. Even if you haven't kept your financial goals top of mind during the first half of December, it's not too late to turn it around. FORBES investing contributor Joshua Becker joined us for an #AskForbes Twitter chat to share some advice to keep seasonal spending in check for the rest of 2016. As the founder and editor of Becoming Minimalist, a website dedicated to intentional living, Becker is an expert on balancing possessions and spending. Here are some of his best tips to keep in mind as we count down the days until the holidays.

Recognize the challenge.

"Minimalism is definitely harder during the holiday season because there are societal forces working against it," says Becker. Knowing your in for a challenge can help you keep your mind set on success when the going gets tough.

Keep track.

Becker recommends establishing clear spending boundaries for categories such as gifts, travel and experiences to hold yourself accountable during the holiday season. That goes for both pre- and post-spending. "You need to be diligent in not just budgeting for gifts," he says, "but also keeping records of your current level of spending."

Find deals.

Google and Amazon are full of holiday deals that can give your budget a break. Don't be afraid to dive a little deeper to find what you're looking for elsewhere: Becker recommends Craigslist and eBay for purchasing used items.

Give thoughtfully.

Not everyone is in the financial situation to give gifts during the holidays, stresses Becker. If giving to someone with a disposable budget, communication is key. "Focus on getting something to ease their life, but not extravagant that they'll feel guilty not reciprocating." After all, the focus of the season isn't about quantity, but rather quality. Thoughtfulness and time are two things money cannot provide, but they make all the difference when gift-giving. Says Becker, "work hard to find just the right simple gift... They'll notice your love in it."

Rethink receiving gifts.

Everyone knows it's best to practice what you preach, so if you're hoping to cut down on your seasonal spending, it's fair to hope those around you would follow your lead. To ease the pressure of minimal spending from your friends and family, offer gift recommendations that avoid high spending. Experiences are a perfect alternative to counteract the mindless giving of 'stuff' that often takes over during the holidays. Receiving push-back? "Tell them you already have everything you need, says Becker.

Plan in advance.

It's a little too late for 2016, but it's never too early to start preparing for the 2017 holiday season. If you value giving gifts during this time of the year, "create a unique savings account & contribute all year long." You'll feel a lot better about upping your spending in November and December if you've been preparing for it all year long. That is, if you have the self control not to touch the extra funds throughout the rest of the year.

Above all? Remember what the holidays are all about. "Realize that your enjoyment of the season has nothing to do with how much money you spend on it," says Becker.

Find the whole chat here.