The Truck’s Path Through a Crowded Christmas Market in Berlin
The Truck’s Path Through a Crowded Christmas Market in Berlin
Waldorf Astoria Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Europa Center Kurfürstendamm 100 feet Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church 100 feet Waldorf Astoria Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kurfürstendamm 100 feet Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kurfürstendamm 100 feet The truck could be seen afterward on one edge of the market after having traveled about 250 feet through stalls and shoppers. Police said they believed the incident was an attack. German media reported that the driver fled. Later, police said they had arrested a man near the market, but did not immediately confirm whether he was the driver. A person was found dead in the cab of the truck. The Christmas market was set up around the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, one of the most symbolic sites in Berlin, in the heart of the city. The church’s jagged spire was bombed on World War II, but it was not rebuilt, as a reminder of the war.

Waldorf Astoria Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Europa Center Kurfürstendamm 100 feet Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church 100 feet Waldorf Astoria Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kurfürstendamm 100 feet Area where truck came to a stop Direction of truck Kant Street Budapester Street Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church Breitscheidplatz Christmas market Kurfürstendamm 100 feet By The New York Times; satellite image by Google

The truck could be seen afterward on one edge of the market after having traveled about 250 feet through stalls and shoppers.

A truck is seen behind police tape near the Christmas market. Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters

Police said they believed the incident was an attack. German media reported that the driver fled. Later, police said they had arrested a man near the market, but did not immediately confirm whether he was the driver. A person was found dead in the cab of the truck.

Police secure an area around the market. Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters