Browns Fan Creates GoFundMe Page for 0-16 Parade, Far Surpasses Goal
Browns Fan Creates GoFundMe Page for 0-16 Parade, Far Surpasses Goal
If the Cleveland Browns lose their final two games of the season against the San Diego Chargers and Pittsburgh Steelers , respectively, the "Perfect Season Parade (0-16)" will go on as planned. After the team fell to 0-10 in the 2016 campaign in November, Browns fan second team in NFL history, joining the 2008 Detroit Lions , to finish the year with a winless 16-game season. security, parade fees, insurance, bathroom facilities, etc." With an assist from the to help get the word out, the page more than exceeded its goal of $1,999. Here's the GoFundMe page for the Browns 0-16 parade: https://t.co/XWi7kd3VDF -Mike Ryan As of right now, the donations are nearing $5,000. With a surplus in funds, McNeil plans on putting the extra money towards a great cause: the Greater Cleveland Food Bank. Any surplus goes to @CleFoodBank in our community. 👍 https://t.co/Rf00eS50EB If the parade were to be canceled, all of the money will be donated to the Greater Cleveland Food Bank. sportstips@complex.com

If the Cleveland Browns lose their final two games of the season against the San Diego Chargers and Pittsburgh Steelers, respectively, the "Perfect Season Parade (0-16)" will go on as planned. After the team fell to 0-10 in the 2016 campaign in November, Browns fan Chris McNeil submitted a permit request to hold a parade to celebrate becoming the second team in NFL history, joining the 2008 Detroit Lions, to finish the year with a winless 16-game season.

The parade has dealt with its fair share of hurdles, especially from Cleveland radio host Tony Rizzo, who vowed to prevent the event from going down or run over those individuals who attend the "celebration." Last week, McNeil started a GoFundMe page to cover the costs of "security, parade fees, insurance, bathroom facilities, etc." With an assist from the Dan Le Batard Show to help get the word out, the page more than exceeded its goal of $1,999.

Here's the GoFundMe page for the Browns 0-16 parade: https://t.co/XWi7kd3VDF -Mike Ryan — Dan Le Batard Show (@LeBatardShow) December 19, 2016

As of right now, the donations are nearing $5,000. With a surplus in funds, McNeil plans on putting the extra money towards a great cause: the Greater Cleveland Food Bank.

If the parade were to be canceled, all of the money will be donated to the Greater Cleveland Food Bank.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.