Blake Griffin Injury: Clippers Star to Undergo Knee Surgery
Blake Griffin Injury: Clippers Star to Undergo Knee Surgery
Los Angeles Clippers forward Blake Griffin will undergo arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Tuesday and will be out three to six weeks, the Clippers announced Tuesday, per Brad Turner of the . Rowan Kavner of the Clippers' official website noted the procedure will "remove loose bodies" from Griffin's knee. Shams Charania of The Vertical first reported the news Sunday. Griffin scored 26 points to go with seven rebounds and seven assists in the Clippers' 117-110 loss to the Washington Wizards on Sunday.                 For the season, Griffin is averaging 21 points, 8.9 rebounds and 4.6 assists through 25 games. Injuries riddled Griffin's 2015-16 campaign. He suffered a torn quad on Christmas and a broken hand during a fight with a team employee that limited him to 35 regular-season games. Soreness in his quad caused him to bow out early in Game 4 of the Clippers' first-round playoff series against the Portland Trail Blazers. He went on to miss Games 5 and 6. Give that Chris Paul suffered a broken hand in Game 4, the Clippers went into the offseason looking like a snakebitten franchise. While it seemed like the team might look to shuffle things by trading one of its Big Three, it chose to keep them for what could be a last hurrah. The Clippers are 20-8 and in fourth place in the Western Conference. As it stands, the Clippers are hoping they can compete with the Golden State Warriors. There's no positive way to spin it if Griffin winds up on the shelf for a while again.

Los Angeles Clippers forward Blake Griffin will undergo arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Tuesday and will be out three to six weeks, the Clippers announced Tuesday, per Brad Turner of the Los Angeles Times.

Rowan Kavner of the Clippers' official website noted the procedure will "remove loose bodies" from Griffin's knee. Shams Charania of The Vertical first reported the news Sunday.

Griffin scored 26 points to go with seven rebounds and seven assists in the Clippers' 117-110 loss to the Washington Wizards on Sunday.

For the season, Griffin is averaging 21 points, 8.9 rebounds and 4.6 assists through 25 games.

Injuries riddled Griffin's 2015-16 campaign. He suffered a torn quad on Christmas and a broken hand during a fight with a team employee that limited him to 35 regular-season games. Soreness in his quad caused him to bow out early in Game 4 of the Clippers' first-round playoff series against the Portland Trail Blazers. He went on to miss Games 5 and 6.

Give that Chris Paul suffered a broken hand in Game 4, the Clippers went into the offseason looking like a snakebitten franchise. While it seemed like the team might look to shuffle things by trading one of its Big Three, it chose to keep them for what could be a last hurrah. The Clippers are 20-8 and in fourth place in the Western Conference.

As it stands, the Clippers are hoping they can compete with the Golden State Warriors. There's no positive way to spin it if Griffin winds up on the shelf for a while again.