Revealed: 10 of the most unusual homes for sale in 2016
Revealed: 10 of the most unusual homes for sale in 2016 
n abandoned fort, an entire Yorkshire village and a home with its very own theme park are just a few of the quirkiest property listings from 2016. There have been no shortage of unusual property listings on Rightmove , who has just released a list of the most popular homes for sale in 2016 , over the past 12 months. “We’re almost at the end of 2016 and this year we’ve seen more unusual properties than ever!” Rightmove explained. “We’ve had castles, forts, haunted houses, windmills, underground hideaways – just about every quirky property in existence!” 1. A fort in Tetney uyers looking for a unique development opportunity had the chance to purchase their very own World War One (WWI) sea fort for just £350,000 earlier this year . The unusual property comes with panoramic sea views, a roof terrace, a wood burner and is very handy for trips to the beach - but needs major renovation. The Haile Sand Fort property is located on the Lincolnshire coast, around four miles from Grimsby town centre. 2. The Stack House in Truro ormerly a Cornish Beam Engine House, this beautiful five-storey property in Truro sold for £425,000. 3. The skate house alling all skater fans, this may just be the house of your dreams . A converted village hall and former youth club, part of this property in the village of Terrington St Clement, Norfolk, has been converted into a skate park. 4. A Yorkshire 'village' n entire Yorkshire 'village' went on the market – for a whopping £20million in April. It is currently under offer. 5. An old station house in Bourne disused Great Northern Railway station built in 1872, in Bourne, Lincolnshire, went on the market for £600,000  earlier this year. 6.  A home in Ireland with a theme park in the back garden his 10-bedroom detached house Co Mayo, Ireland, has its very own theme park in the garden. The only catch is the €10,000,000 asking price. 7. A cave house in Shropshire his unassuming 'hobbit house' in Shropshire has an incredible secret inside . The house was on the market for just under £200,000 and boasts a stunning sandstone cave with vaulted ceilings and ornate pillars at the back of the property. It was once the home of eccentric artist Antony Dracup, who died in 2002, aged 72. 8. A home hidden in a hill his spectacular home just outside Huddersfield is hidden in a hill and sold for £700,000. 9. A 12th Century Norman Castle he beautiful Wilton Castle on the Wye, Hertfordshire, is on the market for £1.4million. 10. his fort in Pembroke, Pembrokeshire, has its very own island. “Thorne Island has been uninhabited for a considerable time with some interiors in a state of disrepair and it is envisaged a new owner will wish to reconfigure the accommodation,” Rightmove explains. It has a guide price of £550,000. More property news  Earlier this year, this Banksy mural house with his famous ‘Spy Booth’ artwork on the side was put up for sale . 10 more of the most unusual homes for sale in the UK.

An abandoned fort, an entire Yorkshire village and a home with its very own theme park are just a few of the quirkiest property listings from 2016.

There have been no shortage of unusual property listings on Rightmove, who has just released a list of the most popular homes for sale in 2016, over the past 12 months.