5 Lightning headphones to stuff in the stockings of iPhone 7 owners
5 Lightning headphones to stuff in the stockings of iPhone 7 owners
Since Apple killed the 3.5mm headphone jack for the iPhone 7, you now have three options for on-the-go music — go wireless, use an adapter or get special headphones with a Lightning connector. Wireless can be pricey and unwieldy and those pesky dongles are prone to getting lost, so we're taking a look at the last option. Here are five strong sets of Lightning headphones for iPhone 7 owners, from budget choices to splash-the-cash luxury.  Philips Fidelio M2L , $299.99 Philips Fidelio M2L Image:  Philips These on-ear options from Philips have an integrated digital-to-analog converter (DAC), amp and 1.6-inch drivers that utilize high-powered neodymium magnets with the claim of delivering "true high-definition sound." Elsewhere the fine leather ear shells feature memory-foam earpads with breathable materials that are acoustically sealed to keep sound details in and noise out.  Scosche HPL1 , $59.99 Scosche HPL1 Image:  Scosche Scocshe's new earbuds are a more affordable option, but still feature noise isolation technology along with high-efficiency dynamic drivers that claim to deliver full-range acoustic reproduction. The built-in microphone allows for voice calls and Siri activation, while the remote lets you control music playback. The HPL1s come complete with three silicone inserts so you can get the correct ergonomic fit for your ear.  Audeze SINE , $499 Audeze SINE Image:  Audeze Designed and engineered in California (where have we heard that before?), these on-ear headphones boast an aluminum frame and handcrafted, genuine leather earcups. The lightweight design folds flat for easy portability. Boasting "leading-edge planar magnetic technology," Audeze's 24-bit "Cipher" cable features an inline system-on-a-chip (SoC) that bypasses the iPhone’s internal DAC and amplifier, streaming high-resolution audio with "significantly better" sound quality. The cable also features a Siri-compatible microphone for voice calls.  Harman JBL Reflect Aware , $199.95 Harman JBL Reflect Aware Image:  Harman Designed specifically for sport, the Reflect Aware earphones boast some clever features for use during workouts. The "Adaptive Noise Control" functionality means you can use noise cancellation if you want to get lost in your music, or adjust the level to let in some environmental noise. They're also sweatproof and boast an ergonomic fit that claims to keep the earpieces in place regardless of the intensity of exercise. The Reflect Aware earphones are available in blue, black, red and teal.  Brightech Lightning Headphones , $39.99 Brightech Lightning Headphones Image:  Brightech Another budget offering, Brightech's Apple-approved headphones are said to rival Philips Fidelio option in style and performance. Crisp 24-bit digital audio and a 1.6-inch neodymium-magnet driver boasts high sensitivity and wide frequency response, and the soft leatherette foam pouches give a comfortable listening experience. Brightech's headphones fold up for portability while the in-line remote lets you easily control your music on the go. BONUS: Testing out Apple's new wireless AirPods

Since Apple killed the 3.5mm headphone jack for the iPhone 7, you now have three options for on-the-go music — go wireless, use an adapter or get special headphones with a Lightning connector.

Wireless can be pricey and unwieldy and those pesky dongles are prone to getting lost, so we're taking a look at the last option. Here are five strong sets of Lightning headphones for iPhone 7 owners, from budget choices to splash-the-cash luxury.

Philips Fidelio M2L Image: Philips

These on-ear options from Philips have an integrated digital-to-analog converter (DAC), amp and 1.6-inch drivers that utilize high-powered neodymium magnets with the claim of delivering "true high-definition sound."

Elsewhere the fine leather ear shells feature memory-foam earpads with breathable materials that are acoustically sealed to keep sound details in and noise out.

Scosche HPL1 Image: Scosche

Scocshe's new earbuds are a more affordable option, but still feature noise isolation technology along with high-efficiency dynamic drivers that claim to deliver full-range acoustic reproduction.

The built-in microphone allows for voice calls and Siri activation, while the remote lets you control music playback.

The HPL1s come complete with three silicone inserts so you can get the correct ergonomic fit for your ear.

Audeze SINE Image: Audeze

Designed and engineered in California (where have we heard that before?), these on-ear headphones boast an aluminum frame and handcrafted, genuine leather earcups. The lightweight design folds flat for easy portability.

Boasting "leading-edge planar magnetic technology," Audeze's 24-bit "Cipher" cable features an inline system-on-a-chip (SoC) that bypasses the iPhone’s internal DAC and amplifier, streaming high-resolution audio with "significantly better" sound quality.

The cable also features a Siri-compatible microphone for voice calls.

Harman JBL Reflect Aware Image: Harman

Designed specifically for sport, the Reflect Aware earphones boast some clever features for use during workouts. The "Adaptive Noise Control" functionality means you can use noise cancellation if you want to get lost in your music, or adjust the level to let in some environmental noise.

They're also sweatproof and boast an ergonomic fit that claims to keep the earpieces in place regardless of the intensity of exercise. The Reflect Aware earphones are available in blue, black, red and teal.

Brightech Lightning Headphones Image: Brightech

Another budget offering, Brightech's Apple-approved headphones are said to rival Philips Fidelio option in style and performance.

Crisp 24-bit digital audio and a 1.6-inch neodymium-magnet driver boasts high sensitivity and wide frequency response, and the soft leatherette foam pouches give a comfortable listening experience.

Brightech's headphones fold up for portability while the in-line remote lets you easily control your music on the go.