Public Universities Offering Classes on 'The Problem of Whiteness'

Public Universities Offering Classes on 'The Problem of Whiteness' // // Two public universities have begun offering classes examining "The Problem of Whiteness." According to course descriptions at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and the University of Colorado, Denver, the aim is to understand how race operates within "white contexts." Monday's "Outnumbered" panel discussed how these courses could lead to rifts in unity on college campuses. "I think this does more to keep people separated than it does to keep them together," said Fox Business Network's Charles Payne, adding he would not care as much if this occurred at a private institution, not funded by taxpayer money. Eboni Williams said her issue was with calling whiteness a "problem." "I don't think anyone in this country should think that just because of the race they are or the color of their skin they are by default problematic," she said. "This course seems like they're indicting all white people for all of the problems for everyone who's not white," Payne said. "I don't know if that's going to help." Watch the above clip, and share your thoughts with us in the comments section.

Ezekiel Elliott's Salvation Army TD Celebration Was Timely and Perfect

Michael Moore to GOP Electors: I Will Pay Your Fines If You Don't Vote for Trump

Two public universities have begun offering classes examining "The Problem of Whiteness."

According to course descriptions at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and the University of Colorado, Denver, the aim is to understand how race operates within "white contexts."

Monday's "Outnumbered" panel discussed how these courses could lead to rifts in unity on college campuses.

"I think this does more to keep people separated than it does to keep them together," said Fox Business Network's Charles Payne, adding he would not care as much if this occurred at a private institution, not funded by taxpayer money.

Eboni Williams said her issue was with calling whiteness a "problem."

"I don't think anyone in this country should think that just because of the race they are or the color of their skin they are by default problematic," she said.

"This course seems like they're indicting all white people for all of the problems for everyone who's not white," Payne said. "I don't know if that's going to help."

Watch the above clip, and share your thoughts with us in the comments section.

This Holiday Cooking Segment Went Horribly, Hilariously Wrong

AZ Lawmaker Wants to Make Stealing the American Flag a Felony

CeeLo Green Says Exploding Cell Phone Video Was Staged