Fiona Apple Yells 'Donald Trump, F*ck You' at Charity Concert
Fiona Apple Yells 'Donald Trump, F*ck You' at Charity Concert
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Fiona Apple was on hand at the Standing Rock benefit in Los Angeles on Sunday night, where she performed her anti-Trump Christmas song “Trump’s Nuts Roasting On an Open Fire” and concluded the song by shouting an obscenity at President-elect Donald Trump. The 39-year-old singer performed three songs at Los Angeles’ Fonda Theater Sunday night, one of which was her anti-Trump parody of “The Christmas Song.” The concert was held to benefit the Standing Rock Sioux and local organizations, who won a temporary victory in their battle against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline earlier this month. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “Trump’s nuts roasting on an open fire/As he keeps nipping at his foes,” the lyrics for the re-worked song include. “You’ll cry ‘creepy uncle’ every time he arrives/For he keeps clawing at your clothes.” At the end of the performance, Apple screamed: “Donald Trump, f*ck you!” The Standing Rock benefit concert also featured performances from TV on the Radio, Sky Ferreira, Devendra Banhart and Kimya Dawson. Watch Apple’s performance above.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Fiona Apple was on hand at the Standing Rock benefit in Los Angeles on Sunday night, where she performed her anti-Trump Christmas song “Trump’s Nuts Roasting On an Open Fire” and concluded the song by shouting an obscenity at President-elect Donald Trump.

The 39-year-old singer performed three songs at Los Angeles’ Fonda Theater Sunday night, one of which was her anti-Trump parody of “The Christmas Song.” The concert was held to benefit the Standing Rock Sioux and local organizations, who won a temporary victory in their battle against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline earlier this month.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“Trump’s nuts roasting on an open fire/As he keeps nipping at his foes,” the lyrics for the re-worked song include. “You’ll cry ‘creepy uncle’ every time he arrives/For he keeps clawing at your clothes.”

At the end of the performance, Apple screamed: “Donald Trump, f*ck you!”

The Standing Rock benefit concert also featured performances from TV on the Radio, Sky Ferreira, Devendra Banhart and Kimya Dawson.

Watch Apple’s performance above.

Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum