Suspected Terrorist Attack Kills at Least 12 at Christmas Market in Berlin
Suspected Terrorist Attack Kills at Least 12 at Christmas Market in Berlin
Shares               At least 12 people were killed and 48 others injured after a truck drove into a Christmas market in a public square in Berlin, according to police. Berlin Police tweeted early Tuesday that the truck was deliberately driven into the crowd in what investigators believe was a terrorist attack. A suspect was arrested after the incident, but police but did not specify whether the person was the driver of the truck.   A male passenger in the truck died at the scene, authorities said. “The man who was found dead in the truck did not control the truck that drove to the Christmas market,” Berlin police said early Tuesday. Police earlier tweeted that the man was a Polish citizen.   The truck involved in the incident was stolen in Poland from a building site, the Berlin police tweeted . "The person who was driving and jumped out of the truck was not my driver. I can vouch for my driver," Ariel Zaurawski, the Polish owner of the truck, told Reuters. Zaurawski said he believes that the truck was hijacked and that something may have happened to the driver. "I can guarantee the one who was in Berlin center was not my driver. They must have done something to him ... His phone does not answer. A moment ago my wife spoke to his wife. She could not get through to him since [about 4:00 p.m. local time]. Something is wrong. He should have answered, the more so that it was his wife calling." The investigation is ongoing, police said. White House National Security Council spokesman Ned Price described the incident as an apparent "terrorist attack." "The United States condemns in the strongest terms what appears to have been a terrorist attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, Germany, which has killed and wounded dozens. We send our thoughts and prayers to the families and loved ones of those killed, just as we wish a speedy recovery to all of those wounded. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to the people and government of Germany," the statement reads. Price added that the U.S. has offered to aid Germany in the investigation.    "We have been in touch with German officials, and we stand ready to provide assistance as they recover from and investigate this horrific incident. Germany is one of our closest partners and strongest allies, and we stand together with Berlin in the fight against all those who target our way of life and threaten our societies," he said. President-elect Donald Trump also released a statement about the incident, calling it "horrifying." "Our hearts and prayers are with the loved ones of the victims of today's horrifying terror attack in Berlin. Innocent civilians were murdered in the streets as they prepared to celebrate the Christmas holiday," Trump said. Trump went on to appear to tie the incident to ISIS. "ISIS and other Islamist terrorists continually slaughter Christians in their communities and places of worship as part of their global jihad. These terrorists and their regional and worldwide networks must be eradicated from the face of the earth, a mission we will carry out with all freedom-loving partners," he concluded.  Shares                  Suspected Terrorist Attack Kills at Least 12 at Christmas Market in Berlin   3 Injured in Shooting at Zurich Islamic Center, Police Say   Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 Will Be Repealed in Special Session   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Smog Chokes China Cities, Grounding Flights, Closing Roads   Beijing Denies US Claim That China Is Synthetic Drug King   2nd-Grader Gives Holiday Presents to Entire School   Military Mom Returns Home to Surprise Daughter at Dance Recital   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   3-Year-Old Road Rage Shooting Victim ID'd   NATO, Russia Discuss Air Safety Talks but Differ on Ukraine   Vote on Bill Viewed as Christie Attack on Newspapers Delayed   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Amid Severe Weather   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   'Fuller House' Cast on Season 2, Coming Back to the Show as Moms   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Obama Contemplates Future of the Democratic Party   'Rogue One': All the Ties to 'A New Hope'   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

At least 12 people were killed and 48 others injured after a truck drove into a Christmas market in a public square in Berlin, according to police.

Berlin Police tweeted early Tuesday that the truck was deliberately driven into the crowd in what investigators believe was a terrorist attack.

A suspect was arrested after the incident, but police but did not specify whether the person was the driver of the truck.

Michael Sohn/AP Photo

A male passenger in the truck died at the scene, authorities said.

“The man who was found dead in the truck did not control the truck that drove to the Christmas market,” Berlin police said early Tuesday. Police earlier tweeted that the man was a Polish citizen.

Sean Gallup/Getty Images

The truck involved in the incident was stolen in Poland from a building site, the Berlin police tweeted.

"The person who was driving and jumped out of the truck was not my driver. I can vouch for my driver," Ariel Zaurawski, the Polish owner of the truck, told Reuters.

Zaurawski said he believes that the truck was hijacked and that something may have happened to the driver. "I can guarantee the one who was in Berlin center was not my driver. They must have done something to him ... His phone does not answer. A moment ago my wife spoke to his wife. She could not get through to him since [about 4:00 p.m. local time]. Something is wrong. He should have answered, the more so that it was his wife calling."

The investigation is ongoing, police said.

White House National Security Council spokesman Ned Price described the incident as an apparent "terrorist attack."

"The United States condemns in the strongest terms what appears to have been a terrorist attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, Germany, which has killed and wounded dozens. We send our thoughts and prayers to the families and loved ones of those killed, just as we wish a speedy recovery to all of those wounded. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to the people and government of Germany," the statement reads.

Price added that the U.S. has offered to aid Germany in the investigation.



Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters

"We have been in touch with German officials, and we stand ready to provide assistance as they recover from and investigate this horrific incident. Germany is one of our closest partners and strongest allies, and we stand together with Berlin in the fight against all those who target our way of life and threaten our societies," he said.

President-elect Donald Trump also released a statement about the incident, calling it "horrifying."

"Our hearts and prayers are with the loved ones of the victims of today's horrifying terror attack in Berlin. Innocent civilians were murdered in the streets as they prepared to celebrate the Christmas holiday," Trump said.

Trump went on to appear to tie the incident to ISIS.

"ISIS and other Islamist terrorists continually slaughter Christians in their communities and places of worship as part of their global jihad. These terrorists and their regional and worldwide networks must be eradicated from the face of the earth, a mission we will carry out with all freedom-loving partners," he concluded.

ABC News' Joshua Hoyos contributed to this report.