Russian Ambassador to Turkey Shot and Killed at Art Gallery by Man Shouting About Aleppo
Russian Ambassador to Turkey Shot and Killed at Art Gallery by Man Shouting About Aleppo
Russia 's ambassador to Turkey was fatally shot this morning at an art gallery in the capital of Turkey. While speaking at the Contemporary Arts Center in Ankara, the ambassador, Andrey Karlov , was shot from behind, as the video above shows. The shooter was killed shortly after in a shootout with Turkish Special Forces police. AP photographer  continued his work in the face of this. pic.twitter.com/ According to the , the gunman, wearing a standard black suit, got into the event by claiming to be Karlov's bodyguard. Reports claim that the killer is Mevlut Mert Altintas, a 22-year-old riot policeman. BREAKING: Gunman who killed Russia's ambassador to Turkey was a policeman, interior minister says. After shooting the ambassador, the killer reportedly shouted "Allahu Akhbar" multiple times and brought attention to the devastating situation in Aleppo . "Don’t forget about Aleppo, don’t forget about Syria," he reportedly said in Turkish. "No one can be safe as long as our brothers there are not. Get out of my way." In Arabic, he quoted a follower of Muhammad, as members of ISIS have quoted. "We are the ones who pledged Bai'a (fealty) to Mohammed on the terms of Jihad as long as we live," he said. While waving his gun, the man also shouted in Turkish, "Only death will remove me from here. Everyone who has taken part in this oppression will one by one pay for it." AP photo of gunman in Russian Ambassador attack in Turkey pic.twitter.com/ Turkish Special Forces killed the shooter during a shootout shortly after the ambassador was shot. #pt : #Russia ’s Ambassador was at an art exhibition.  Photo from scene appears to show a gunman (right) & Ambassador shot on ground (center). pic.twitter.com/ Karlov was finishing his speech shortly after 7 p.m. local time at the opening of the exhibition, which was titled "Russia through Turks' eyes." According to the , the gunman fired at least eight shots. Picture shows moments before the Turkish policeman in the background starts an armed attack against the Russian ambassador to Turkey pic.twitter.com/ According to the , at least three other people were wounded during the incident, which Russia's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova described as a terrorist attack. explains: "The assassination occurred on the eve of a scheduled meeting of Russian, Turkish and Iranian foreign ministers to discuss next steps in the Syria crisis after the Assad regime, with the help of Russian airstrikes and Iranian-commanded Shiite militias, captured rebel-held East Aleppo and expelled tens of thousands of civilians." Protests have been going on in Turkey over Russia's actions in the Syrian war. Russia and Turkey have been working together to evacuate the war-torn city of Aleppo, but support different sides in the conflict, according to the .

Russia's ambassador to Turkey was fatally shot this morning at an art gallery in the capital of Turkey. While speaking at the Contemporary Arts Center in Ankara, the ambassador, Andrey Karlov, was shot from behind, as the video above shows. The shooter was killed shortly after in a shootout with Turkish Special Forces police.

AP photographer Burhan Ozbilici continued his work in the face of this. pic.twitter.com/mGdH37ZMei — Micah Grimes ( @MicahGrimes ) December 19, 2016

According to the Daily Beast, the gunman, wearing a standard black suit, got into the event by claiming to be Karlov's bodyguard. Reports claim that the killer is Mevlut Mert Altintas, a 22-year-old riot policeman.

BREAKING: Gunman who killed Russia's ambassador to Turkey was a policeman, interior minister says. — The Associated Press (@AP) December 19, 2016

After shooting the ambassador, the killer reportedly shouted "Allahu Akhbar" multiple times and brought attention to the devastating situation in Aleppo. "Don’t forget about Aleppo, don’t forget about Syria," he reportedly said in Turkish. "No one can be safe as long as our brothers there are not. Get out of my way." In Arabic, he quoted a follower of Muhammad, as members of ISIS have quoted. "We are the ones who pledged Bai'a (fealty) to Mohammed on the terms of Jihad as long as we live," he said.

While waving his gun, the man also shouted in Turkish, "Only death will remove me from here. Everyone who has taken part in this oppression will one by one pay for it."

AP photo of gunman in Russian Ambassador attack in Turkey pic.twitter.com/PvaqMU6WeP — Jesse Rodriguez ( @JesseRodriguez ) December 19, 2016

Turkish Special Forces killed the shooter during a shootout shortly after the ambassador was shot.

#pt: #Russia’s Ambassador was at an art exhibition.



Photo from scene appears to show a gunman (right) & Ambassador shot on ground (center). pic.twitter.com/ktmY6A6a6J — Charles Lister (@Charles_Lister) December 19, 2016

Karlov was finishing his speech shortly after 7 p.m. local time at the opening of the exhibition, which was titled "Russia through Turks' eyes." According to the Los Angeles Times, the gunman fired at least eight shots.

Picture shows moments before the Turkish policeman in the background starts an armed attack against the Russian ambassador to Turkey pic.twitter.com/uEjGS3wmx1 — Turkey Untold ( @TurkeyUntold ) December 19, 2016

According to the New York Times, at least three other people were wounded during the incident, which Russia's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova described as a terrorist attack.

The Daily Beast explains:

"The assassination occurred on the eve of a scheduled meeting of Russian, Turkish and Iranian foreign ministers to discuss next steps in the Syria crisis after the Assad regime, with the help of Russian airstrikes and Iranian-commanded Shiite militias, captured rebel-held East Aleppo and expelled tens of thousands of civilians."

Protests have been going on in Turkey over Russia's actions in the Syrian war. Russia and Turkey have been working together to evacuate the war-torn city of Aleppo, but support different sides in the conflict, according to the New York Times.