Warrant Related to Clinton Emails to be Unsealed Tuesday
Warrant Related to Clinton Emails to be Unsealed Tuesday 
Shares               A federal judge in New York has ordered that a search warrant and supporting documents that authorized the FBI in the final days before the election to examine a laptop computer in connection with Hillary Clinton ’s use of a private email server be unsealed Tuesday at noon. The laptop's hard drive, which sources say was discovered in an unrelated investigation into alleged sexting by former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner , had been used by Weiner and his estranged wife, top Clinton adviser Huma Abedin .     The FBI had effectively closed its investigation of Clinton's use of a private server as secretary of state in July, at which time the agency's director, James Comey, stated flatly in a press conference that, “no charges are appropriate in this case." But the possibility that emails discovered on the laptop could be related to the investigation led Comey to issue a stunning letter to Congress on Oct. 28, informing them of the rekindled probe.  "In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation," Comey wrote in the letter to Congress. Nine days later, on Nov. 6, just two days before the election, Comey said in another letter to Congress, "Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton." Clinton has said Comey's actions were a turning point in the presidential race , telling donors soon after the election that the FBI director's announcement killed momentum in her campaign and boosted motivation for Trump. A top donor told ABC News that the Comey letter was "a perfect setup for failure." Shares                  Warrant Related to Clinton Emails to be Unsealed Tuesday   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Trump Surpasses 270 Electoral College Votes   How Ivanka Trump's Possible White House Role Wouldn't Be Unprecedented   Elector Says He's Switching Vote From Clinton to Sanders   Obama Contemplates Future of the Democratic Party   Trump to Nominate Florida Panthers Owner for Army Secretary   What to Know About Today's Electoral College Vote   The Note: Electoral College in the Spotlight   Obama: I Suspect Trump's Definition of Political Correctness Is 'Different Than Mine'   Michael Moore: I Will Pay Faithless Electors' State Fines   Senior GOP Lawmaker Calls for Investigation of CIA Director Over Media Leaks on Russian Hacking   Suspected Terrorist Attack Kills at Least 12 at Christmas Market in Berlin   3 Injured in Shooting at Zurich Islamic Center, Police Say   Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 Will Be Repealed in Special Session   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Smog Chokes China Cities, Grounding Flights, Closing Roads   Beijing Denies US Claim That China Is Synthetic Drug King   2nd-Grader Gives Holiday Presents to Entire School   Military Mom Returns Home to Surprise Daughter at Dance Recital   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'

A federal judge in New York has ordered that a search warrant and supporting documents that authorized the FBI in the final days before the election to examine a laptop computer in connection with Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server be unsealed Tuesday at noon.

The laptop's hard drive, which sources say was discovered in an unrelated investigation into alleged sexting by former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner, had been used by Weiner and his estranged wife, top Clinton adviser Huma Abedin.

The FBI had effectively closed its investigation of Clinton's use of a private server as secretary of state in July, at which time the agency's director, James Comey, stated flatly in a press conference that, “no charges are appropriate in this case."

But the possibility that emails discovered on the laptop could be related to the investigation led Comey to issue a stunning letter to Congress on Oct. 28, informing them of the rekindled probe.

"In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation," Comey wrote in the letter to Congress.

Nine days later, on Nov. 6, just two days before the election, Comey said in another letter to Congress, "Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton."

Clinton has said Comey's actions were a turning point in the presidential race, telling donors soon after the election that the FBI director's announcement killed momentum in her campaign and boosted motivation for Trump.

A top donor told ABC News that the Comey letter was "a perfect setup for failure."