Christmas Arrives Early For Saif-Kareena, The Couple Has Been Blessed With A Baby Boy!
Christmas Arrives Early For Saif-Kareena, The Couple Has Been Blessed With A Baby Boy!
Christmas Arrives Early For Saif-Kareena, The Couple Has Been Blessed With A Baby Boy! After nine months of glowing, shattering stereotypes and being totally kickass, Kareena Kapoor Khan has delivered a baby boy today morning. Christmas has definitely arrived early for the couple. Finally putting an end to a couple of hoaxes, social media rumors that Kareena would be delivering her baby outside India, Kareena Kapoor Khan's official team has confirmed the news that she is blessed with a baby boy today morning. According to a statement that has been released by Saif, Just a few days ago, in an interview with HT Cafe, Saif had expressed his excitement and happiness for the baby. He had said, “Like I said, this age is great — you are relaxed and settled in your life, so you can share happily. I think it’s also a great expression of my relationship with Kareena. To have a child now completes us. There is something about a baby that is kind of half of mine and half of hers, so, it’s a nice feeling.” Karan Johar took to Twitter to congratulate the couple and he also revealed the name of the latest 'Chote Nawaab'. He tweeted, My Bebo had a baby boy!!!!!!! Am so so happy!!!!!!! #TaimurAliKhan ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ 'Chote Nawab' has definitely brought truckloads of happiness for the Khan-dan. Congratulations, you two!

After nine months of glowing, shattering stereotypes and being totally kickass, Kareena Kapoor Khan has delivered a baby boy today morning. Christmas has definitely arrived early for the couple.

Twitter/Harper

Finally putting an end to a couple of hoaxes, social media rumors that Kareena would be delivering her baby outside India, Kareena Kapoor Khan's official team has confirmed the news that she is blessed with a baby boy today morning.

According to a statement that has been released by Saif,

"We are very pleased to share with you all the wonderful news about the birth of our son : Taimur Ali Khan Pataudi, on the 20th of December 2016. We would like to thank the media for the understanding and support they have given us over the last 9 months, and of course especially our fans and well wishers for their continued affection. Merry Christmas and a happy new year to you all...

With love, Saif & Kareena"

Just a few days ago, in an interview with HT Cafe, Saif had expressed his excitement and happiness for the baby. He had said,

Twitter

“Like I said, this age is great — you are relaxed and settled in your life, so you can share happily. I think it’s also a great expression of my relationship with Kareena. To have a child now completes us. There is something about a baby that is kind of half of mine and half of hers, so, it’s a nice feeling.”

Karan Johar took to Twitter to congratulate the couple and he also revealed the name of the latest 'Chote Nawaab'. He tweeted,

My Bebo had a baby boy!!!!!!! Am so so happy!!!!!!! #TaimurAliKhan ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ — Karan Johar (@karanjohar) December 20, 2016

'Chote Nawab' has definitely brought truckloads of happiness for the Khan-dan. Congratulations, you two!