Madonna Shares Video Rehearsing Dance Moves With Ariana Grande Backstage: Watch
Madonna Shares Video Rehearsing Dance Moves With Ariana Grande Backstage: Watch
Billboard's 100 Best Pop Songs of 2016: Critics' Picks 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Madonna Shares Video Rehearsing Dance Moves With Ariana Grande Backstage: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Madonna has shared a candid video of her and Ariana Grande rehearsing dance moves backstage, calling them both a couple of clowns. In the video, which Madge posted to her social media accounts on Monday (Dec. 19), the iconic pop star is leading Grande in what is presumably the routine they showed of during Madonna's Raising Malawi benefit concert earlier this month. "2 Clowns backstage!" she captioned the video. In it, they first take a selfie and then laugh over how it turned out, before working on the moves.  This was not the first time Grande joined Madonna for a show. In January, she stepped onstage for a surprise guest spot during The Queen of Pop's Rebel Hear Tour -- coincidentally also in Miami. Watch it here: 2 Clowns backstage! -------- @ArianaGrande  pic.twitter.com/Qwf92XBF7F   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

MadonnaÂ photographed backstage at the 2016 Women in Music awards on Dec.Â 9, 2016Â at Pier 36 in New York City.

Madonna has shared a candid video of her and Ariana Grande rehearsing dance moves backstage, calling them both a couple of clowns.

In the video, which Madge posted to her social media accounts on Monday (Dec. 19), the iconic pop star is leading Grande in what is presumably the routine they showed of during Madonna's Raising Malawi benefit concert earlier this month.

"2 Clowns backstage!" she captioned the video. In it, they first take a selfie and then laugh over how it turned out, before working on the moves.

This was not the first time Grande joined Madonna for a show. In January, she stepped onstage for a surprise guest spot during The Queen of Pop's Rebel Hear Tour -- coincidentally also in Miami.

Watch it here: