Why fretting about what to wear could be ruining your life
Why fretting about what to wear could be ruining your life


Want 2017 to be the year that your life genuinely changes for the better? Move into your dream home? Change job? Retire? Lose weight? Fall in love?

You need to make some big decisions — and yet most of us are hopeless at them. Rather than strive for happier, healthier versions of ourselves, we’re held back by our fear of new beginnings.

We are scared of making a break with the past, no matter how much better it will make us feel.

Save brainpower by filling your wardrobe with no-decision-required outfits — half-a-dozen white shirts and a couple of navy jackets, for example

But life is change. Living is all about venturing into the unknown. Most things that give life meaning involve taking risks and making that leap.

We can all get better at making big decisions — and changing our life for the better. Read on to find out how.

FREE UP BRAIN POWER

Experts think we make 35,000 individual decisions each day — most of them frankly trivial, from the clothes we wear to the food we eat.

But our decision-making ability is like a muscle and gets tired from all this work.

Scientists at Florida State University have discovered that the willpower required to make a choice isn’t a finite resource.

It can be exhausted, which in turn depletes the quality of our decision-making. If you’ve resisted a plate of biscuits all morning, it’s harder to make a decision about the direction of your life in the afternoon.

‘When we exhaust our willpower, we need to let it rest again, like a muscle,’ says Dr Benjamin Gardner, an expert in behaviour change at King’s College, London.

So don’t overtax it. Take away little decisions, leaving mental power for big ones. Don’t stress over what to buy for supper each night — set up a master shopping list and have it delivered each week. Stick to a meal plan, freeing up vital head space.

Experts think we make 35,000 individual decisions each day — most of them frankly trivial, from the clothes we wear to the food we eat

Take the same approach to what to wear. Save brainpower by filling your wardrobe with no-decision-required outfits — half-a-dozen white shirts and a couple of navy jackets, for example. You’ll be in good company: this has long been a technique used by top politicians and CEOs.

DON’T BE SCARED

Most humans are afraid of change and making decisions.

‘We’re scared of committing to one future,’ says Ellen Bard, a psychologist and motivation expert with 15 years’ experience in helping people to get better at making decisions.

‘We think that when we commit, we rule out all the alternatives. But there are few decisions you can never go back on.’

She’s right, and it’s a brilliant mantra. Bar parenthood, everything else is reversible. Where you live, what job you do, even your partner — all can be changed.

HAVE A DUVET DAY (AND WATCH A WEEPIE)

If you want to change your life for the better — even if it’s taking up a new exercise regime and losing weight — it’s often best to start off on the sofa.

If you want to change your life for the better — even if it’s taking up a new exercise regime and losing weight — it’s often best to start off on the sofa

‘There’s something called emotional arousal that helps us get fired up for change,’ says Jim Prochaska, a U.S. professor of psychology who developed an influential six-stage programme called the Transtheoretical Model of Behaviour Change.

‘One of the easiest ways to achieve this is to watch a movie that makes you feel emotionally charged. A good three-hankies film is the best.’

Emotional arousal is an excellent way to get beyond a purely intellectual assessment of a problem (such as being overweight) and commit to change.

Jim also suggests going public with your new regime to ensure you stick to it.

Or why not enlist at least one ‘buddy’ to support you or perhaps share the cost of a personal trainer.

If you’re no good with money, spend just one minute a day becoming more financially literate

‘It means there’s someone you feel accountable to,’ he says.

MAKE SMALL CHANGES

Fool yourself into making a big change by taking lots of small steps to get there. The Japanese word kaizen means ‘improvement’ and the practice is all about tiny, seemingly insignificant changes that add up to something much, much bigger.

And I do mean small changes.

If you’re no good with money, for example, spend just one minute a day becoming more financially literate.

You might take a minute to find an article about planning for retirement online. Don’t read it — you’ve done your minute for the day — put it aside until tomorrow and then focus on it.

The next day make a conscious effort to listen to a money programme for two minutes.

Try meditating on a morning coffee. By paying attention and appreciating the tastes and sensations that arise while consuming something, we can become more mindful and declutter our thoughts

‘Small actions trick the brain into thinking: “Hey, this change is so tiny that it’s no big deal,” ’ says Dr Robert Mauer, director of behavioural Sciences at Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Centre.

‘By outfoxing our fear response, kaizen allows the brain to build up new permanent habits.’

MINDFUL OVER COFFEE

A cluttered mind won’t help you make the right decisions. It might be physically incapable of deciding much at all.

‘We’re often indecisive when we’re feeling down because we’re too sensitive to losses or disappointment,’ says Alex Korb, assistant professor of neuroscience at UCLA. ‘We can’t cope with making the wrong choice, so we protect ourselves.’

Meditation and mindfulness are great ways to calm the mind and relieve stress, but some people — like me — find it hard to empty their whirling minds.

So try meditating on a morning coffee instead. By paying attention and appreciating the tastes and sensations that arise while consuming something, we can become more mindful and declutter our thoughts.

Adapted by Alison Roberts from Leap Year: How To Make Big Decisions, Be More Resilient And Change Your Life For Good by Helen Russell (Two Roads, £16.99. © Helen Russell 2016. To order for £12.74 (until January 2, 2017), visit mailbookshop.co.uk or call 0844 571 0640. P&P free on orders over £15.