Nice Attack Rerun In Berlin As 'Asylum Seeker' Rams Truck Into Christmas Market. 12 Killed, Dozens Injured.
'Asylum Seeker' Rams Truck Into Crowded Christmas Market In Berlin. 12 Killed, Dozens Injured.
Nice Attack Rerun In Berlin As 'Asylum Seeker' Rams Truck Into Christmas Market. 12 Killed, Dozens Injured. A Christmas market in Berlin was turned into a death scene as a truck rammed into people and killed 12 persons on Monday. According to initial reports, dozens more were injured in what s seen as a terror attack. UPDATE: Truck driver 'deliberately' plowed through the crowd at #Berlin  #ChristmasMarket – police https://t.co/PRyvH33oxa  pic.twitter.com/sIlOzA3y01 Ambulances and heavily armed police rushed to the area after the vehicle mounted the pavement of the market in a square popular with tourists, in horrific scenes reminiscent of July's deadly truck attack in the French Riviera city of Nice. "I don't want to use the word 'attack' yet, although there are many things pointing to one," Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere told public television. #BREAKING Truck crashed into Berlin market 'intentionally': German police As witnesses described scenes of panic and carnage, police said at least 12 people were killed and 45 others were injured -- four of them seriously -- in the incident which comes less than a week before Christmas. Australian Trisha O'Neill told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation she was only metres from where the truck smashed into the crowded market. "I just saw this huge black truck speeding through the markets crushing so many people and then all the lights went out and everything was destroyed. "I could hear screaming and then we all froze. Then suddenly people started to move and lift all the wreckage off people, trying to help whoever was there." O'Neill said there was "blood and bodies everywhere". A German police spokeswoman told AFP that a man who was apparently driving the truck had been detained while the passenger was dead.

A Christmas market in Berlin was turned into a death scene as a truck rammed into people and killed 12 persons on Monday. According to initial reports, dozens more were injured in what s seen as a terror attack.

Ambulances and heavily armed police rushed to the area after the vehicle mounted the pavement of the market in a square popular with tourists, in horrific scenes reminiscent of July's deadly truck attack in the French Riviera city of Nice.

Reuters

"I don't want to use the word 'attack' yet, although there are many things pointing to one," Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere told public television.

#BREAKING Truck crashed into Berlin market 'intentionally': German police — AFP news agency (@AFP) December 20, 2016

As witnesses described scenes of panic and carnage, police said at least 12 people were killed and 45 others were injured -- four of them seriously -- in the incident which comes less than a week before Christmas.

Reuters

Australian Trisha O'Neill told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation she was only metres from where the truck smashed into the crowded market.

"I just saw this huge black truck speeding through the markets crushing so many people and then all the lights went out and everything was destroyed. "I could hear screaming and then we all froze. Then suddenly people started to move and lift all the wreckage off people, trying to help whoever was there." O'Neill said there was "blood and bodies everywhere".

A German police spokeswoman told AFP that a man who was apparently driving the truck had been detained while the passenger was dead.

Reuters

Security sources cited by DPA news agency said that the man behind the wheel was an asylum seeker from Afghanistan or Pakistan who arrived in Germany in February.

President-elect Donald Trump issues statement following "horrifying terror attack in Berlin." https://t.co/lRq3UGOBk9 pic.twitter.com/OFLQ8FRRYZ — ABC News (@ABC) December 20, 2016

The daily Tagesspiegel said the man was known to police but for minor crimes, not links to terrorism.

The Polish owner of the lorry confirmed his driver was missing.

"We haven't heard from him since this afternoon. We don't know what happened to him. He's my cousin, I've known him since I was a kid. I can vouch for him," transport company owner Ariel Zurawski told AFP.

German authorities said there was no indication of "further dangerous situations in the city near Breitscheidplatz", where the suspected attack took place.

Chancellor Angela Merkel reacted quickly to the tragedy, with spokesman Steffen Seibert tweeting: "We mourn the dead and hope that the many people injured can be helped."

Traditional Christmas markets are popular in cities and towns throughout Germany and have frequently been mentioned by security services as potentially vulnerable to attacks.

With inputs from TNN and Agencies