Man in Custody in Turkey After Firing Gun in Front of US Embassy
Man in Custody in Turkey After Firing Gun in Front of US Embassy
Shares               Turkish authorities have taken into custody a man who allegedly fired shots near the entrance to the U.S. embassy in Turkey's capital city of Ankara, a U.S. State Department official told ABC News. Turkish media reported that no one was injured in the incident that occurred around 3:55 a.m. local time. Authorities in the country are investigating, the State Department official said. The incident occurred hours after Russia's ambassador to Turkey was assassinated at an art showing in Ankara by a man identified as a member of the Turkish riot police. The gunman shouted during the incident in Arabic, "Allahu akhbar" ("God is greatest") and yelled in Turkish: "Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria. Until these places are safe you will not taste any safety either."        Shares                  Man in Custody in Turkey After Firing Gun in Front of US Embassy   Suspected Terrorist Attack Kills at Least 12 at Christmas Market in Berlin   3 Injured in Shooting at Zurich Islamic Center, Police Say   Incoming NC Governor Says HB2 Will Be Repealed in Special Session   Roberts Denies Plea to Force Senate Action on Garland   Smog Chokes China Cities, Grounding Flights, Closing Roads   Beijing Denies US Claim That China Is Synthetic Drug King   2nd-Grader Gives Holiday Presents to Entire School   Military Mom Returns Home to Surprise Daughter at Dance Recital   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   Separated Twins Meet for 1st Time Since Surgery   Woman With Down Syndrome Bakes Cookies to Inspire Others   Train Conductor Saves Cat Found 'Frozen in Ice and Snow'   3-Year-Old Road Rage Shooting Victim ID'd   NATO, Russia Discuss Air Safety Talks but Differ on Ukraine   Vote on Bill Viewed as Christie Attack on Newspapers Delayed   At Least 19 People Died This Weekend Amid Severe Weather   Prince Harry Speaks Movingly About Princess Diana   William, Kate and Harry Get in the Christmas Spirit   Mariah Carey Not Returning Engagement Ring From Ex   'Fuller House' Cast on Season 2, Coming Back to the Show as Moms   Costs Top $500,000 in Case of Man Whose Son Died in Hot Car   Obama Contemplates Future of the Democratic Party   'Rogue One': All the Ties to 'A New Hope'   Jennifer Lawrence on Leaving Earth Behind in 'Passengers'   Consumer Alert on Smart Toys This Holiday Season

Turkish authorities have taken into custody a man who allegedly fired shots near the entrance to the U.S. embassy in Turkey's capital city of Ankara, a U.S. State Department official told ABC News.

Turkish media reported that no one was injured in the incident that occurred around 3:55 a.m. local time.

Authorities in the country are investigating, the State Department official said.

The incident occurred hours after Russia's ambassador to Turkey was assassinated at an art showing in Ankara by a man identified as a member of the Turkish riot police. The gunman shouted during the incident in Arabic, "Allahu akhbar" ("God is greatest") and yelled in Turkish: "Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria. Until these places are safe you will not taste any safety either."

This is a breaking news story. Please check back for updates.