Kodak Black: 'Lil Wayne Ain't The Best F--king Rapper Alive... I Am'
Kodak Black: 'Lil Wayne Ain't The Best F--king Rapper Alive... I Am' 
Billboard's 100 Best Pop Songs of 2016: Critics' Picks 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Kodak Black: 'Lil Wayne Ain't The Best F--king Rapper Alive... I Am'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Since his release from jail earlier this month, Kodak Black has been hard at work. Within his first week of freedom, the 19-year-old rapper released his fiery video "There He Go," followed by his song "Weatherman" featuring Yo Gotti . Now, Black is proclaiming that he is the "best rapper alive." On Sunday (Dec. 18), Black shared a tweet that read, "Lil Wayne Ain't The Best F--king Rapper Alive ... IAM." Lil Wayne Ain't The Best Fucking Rapper Alive ... IAM ------ Back in 2005, the Young Money lyricist released his critically acclaimed album featuring a song titled "Best Rapper Alive." On the record, Wayne confidently dubbed himself the best MC in hip-hop, and for years, carried that signature trademark. After , he released his most successful album, , which sold a million copies in its first week out and spawned several Top 10 hits including "Lollipop" (which hit No. 1 on the Hot 100 ) and "A Milli."  Kodak Black's controversial comment comes on the heels of his Instagram tirade, where he accused D.R.A.M. and Lil Yachty of stealing his slang on "Broccoli." “Man, what the f--k, man? “Who these ni---s is jocking my lil’ swag, man, talking bout broccoli, man," said Black. "Nah, I’m saying you n---as don’t smoke broccoli. Look for now on, man, I don’t smoke broccoli no more. I smoke cantaloupe since y’all square a-- n---as tryna jack the swag. I smoke cantaloupe now.” Lil Wayne has yet to respond to Kodak Black's tweet.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Since his release from jail earlier this month, Kodak Black has been hard at work. Within his first week of freedom, the 19-year-old rapper released his fiery video "There He Go," followed by his song "Weatherman" featuring Yo Gotti. Now, Black is proclaiming that he is the "best rapper alive."

On Sunday (Dec. 18), Black shared a tweet that read, "Lil Wayne Ain't The Best F--king Rapper Alive ... IAM."

Lil Wayne Ain't The Best Fucking Rapper Alive ... IAM ------ — Kodak Black (@KodakBlack1k) December 19, 2016

Back in 2005, the Young Money lyricist released his critically acclaimed album Tha Carter II featuring a song titled "Best Rapper Alive." On the record, Wayne confidently dubbed himself the best MC in hip-hop, and for years, carried that signature trademark.

After Tha Carter II, he released his most successful album, Tha Carter III, which sold a million copies in its first week out and spawned several Top 10 hits including "Lollipop" (which hit No. 1 on the Hot 100) and "A Milli."

Kodak Black's controversial comment comes on the heels of his Instagram tirade, where he accused D.R.A.M. and Lil Yachty of stealing his slang on "Broccoli." “Man, what the f--k, man? “Who these ni---s is jocking my lil’ swag, man, talking bout broccoli, man," said Black. "Nah, I’m saying you n---as don’t smoke broccoli. Look for now on, man, I don’t smoke broccoli no more. I smoke cantaloupe since y’all square a-- n---as tryna jack the swag. I smoke cantaloupe now.”

Lil Wayne has yet to respond to Kodak Black's tweet.