This Is How To Make Your Very Own Harry Potter Feast
This Is How To Make Your Very Own Harry Potter Feast
Everyone who’s ever read or watched has probably dreamed of the same thing: getting their Hogwarts letter, traveling on the Hogwarts Express, and being welcomed on their first night at the castle by a majestic feast. You’re probably still waiting for your letter, but that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy a true Hogwarts feast of your own. And because even Muggles should get a taste of magic from time to time, we decided to build a menu based on the books’ descriptions of the festivities. For the recipes, we used a combination of our own original creations, plus other favorites from around the internet. (And yes, there’s a treacle tart involved!) Find our full menu below.  You can’t have a true Hogwarts feast without a drink in hand first! And what better drink than the most famous food-related creation? To make our own Butterbeer, we used this recipe — which is part of a lineup of eight original -inspired cocktails. It’s not as sweet as the Harry Potter World version, but it’s truly delicious and fits the books’ description. Now, onto the food!   The Sunday roast is a staple of British cuisine and of Hogwarts’ dinner tables. Roast beef is traditionally served with gravy and Yorkshire puddings, which are also mentioned in the books and are very similar to what Americans call popovers.   There are all types of potatoes in the books: boiled, roasted, baked, and mashed. We picked the latter because We made a version with roasted garlic.   Pumpkin Pasties are actually never mentioned in the descriptions of Hogwarts Feasts. (They’re sold by the trolley lady on the Hogwarts Express.) But they sounded so delicious, we couldn’t include them in our menu. We decided to make a savory recipe where The result was pretty magical and would, hopefully, receive Harry’s seal of approval.  Steak-and-kidney pie is an old-school British specialty that’s mentioned repeatedly in the books. The recipe we used called for ox kidney but we used beef, which was more easily available and very similar. (Even with the switch we had to call several butchers to finally find one that sold beef kidney, so make sure you plan in advance if you want to make this one!) The dish itself was very hearty — a great addition to a winter feast if you’re a meat lover and are not grossed out by kidney.   Lamb chops are delicious, easy to make, and look fancy AF on a feast table. , so they had to make a cameo on our table.   Treacle tart is mentioned countless times in the books as Harry’s favorite dessert. The British specialty is made of breadcrumbs, golden syrup, and a bit of lemon. We found golden syrup at Whole Foods, but if your local grocery store doesn’t sell it, you can get it online . We made the breadcrumbs from scratch — toasting and processing slices of white bread super finely. The combination of syrup, breadcrumbs, and lemon may seem a bit weird, but this dessert was a real hit on our team and everyone LOVED it. The freshness of the cream perfectly complements the sweetness of the tart. Last but not least, know that and it will still taste amazing.   Spotted dick is only mentioned once in the books. But, with a name like that, one appearance is enough to be remembered. The dessert is a pudding filled with raisins or dried currants. (However, if you’re a food puritan and can’t find suet in your local stores, you can always buy it online .) The other tricky part in this recipe is the cooking: But we actually used a thick metal mixing bowl that we covered tightly and it worked pretty well, so if you don’t want to invest in a special dish for this recipe, this can be an option! Jon Premosch / BuzzFeed Jon Premosch / BuzzFeed  OK, guys: This is the true MVP of the feast. Chocolate is such a comforting food in the books (it helps fight Dementors-induced depression!) and chocolate gateau is mentioned a couple of times, so it had to be featured here. It was wicked! So here you go, you now have everything to plan a truly magical night! Planning a Hogwarts feast? Brilliant! Take a picture and tag it . We want to see your beautiful tables and dishes and know how everything turned out. Photos by Jon Premosch; styling by Jenny Chang and Justine Zwiebel; and graphics by Jenny Chang Products: Metallic lace plate by Anthropologie (only available in silver online), gold and white bowl by Anthropologie , gold serveware provided by ABC Carpet and Home , terracotta pitcher provided by ABC Carpet and Home , Jane Burtz gold luster plates and provided by ABC Carpet and Home , copper cup from TJ Maxx (not available online), small copper bowl provided by Tom Dixon , silver and gold platter from Amazon .   Here's How To Make Pumpkin Pasties Worthy Of A Hogwarts...    4 Famous Sandwiches from 4 Cities  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

You’re probably still waiting for your letter, but that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy a true Hogwarts feast of your own. And because even Muggles should get a taste of magic from time to time, we decided to build a menu based on the books’ descriptions of the festivities. For the recipes, we used a combination of our own original creations, plus other favorites from around the internet. (And yes, there’s a treacle tart involved!)

Note: Some of the recipes are from British publications and use the metric system. If you don’t own a scale, here’s an $11 option on Amazon, or here’s a conversion chart.