Glastonbury Festival Could Be Moved to Another Location in 2019
Glastonbury Festival Could Be Moved to Another Location in 2019
If you are a frequent festival goer, then you’re probably familiar with seeing the amount of trash that piles up and the damages done to grassland after thousands of people have walked on it for hours. The Glastonbury Festival traditionally has rainy weather, which turns a healthy grass field into a muddy hellhole. It’s not fun to maneuver if you aren't fully prepared. Glastonbury’s founder Michael Eavis has a solution for this. According to a report by Eavis wants to move the festival 100 miles away from Worthy Farm in hopes to protect the main site and allow his farm to recover. Eavis says the new site would be used every five years, which would be considered a "fallow year" for Glastonbury organizers and Somerset community members to take a break. "I'm arranging to move the show [but] it would be a huge loss to Somerset if it went there forever," he said. At one point, there was a plan in the works to hold a new festival in Longleat in 2019 while Glastonbury was on its break, but owners of the Wiltshire attraction turned down the idea. "We've got a wonderful product what we do and we can do it almost anywhere," Mr Eavis said. "Most people are on side now and it's a wonderful, wonderful boost for the whole of Somerset and beyond as well.” Glastonbury has had some major artists headline in the past. Adele , Muse, and Coldplay were this year’s headliners, while the likes of Kanye West, Arcade Fire, Metallica, and The Rolling Stones have graced the festival's multiple stages in recent years.

If you are a frequent festival goer, then you’re probably familiar with seeing the amount of trash that piles up and the damages done to grassland after thousands of people have walked on it for hours. The Glastonbury Festival traditionally has rainy weather, which turns a healthy grass field into a muddy hellhole. It’s not fun to maneuver if you aren't fully prepared.

Glastonbury’s founder Michael Eavis has a solution for this. According to a report by BBC News, Eavis wants to move the festival 100 miles away from Worthy Farm in hopes to protect the main site and allow his farm to recover. Eavis says the new site would be used every five years, which would be considered a "fallow year" for Glastonbury organizers and Somerset community members to take a break.

"I'm arranging to move the show [but] it would be a huge loss to Somerset if it went there forever," he said.

At one point, there was a plan in the works to hold a new festival in Longleat in 2019 while Glastonbury was on its break, but owners of the Wiltshire attraction turned down the idea.

"We've got a wonderful product what we do and we can do it almost anywhere," Mr Eavis said. "Most people are on side now and it's a wonderful, wonderful boost for the whole of Somerset and beyond as well.”

Glastonbury has had some major artists headline in the past. Adele, Muse, and Coldplay were this year’s headliners, while the likes of Kanye West, Arcade Fire, Metallica, and The Rolling Stones have graced the festival's multiple stages in recent years.