Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova's career hanging in the balance after intruder stabbed her playing hand
Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova's career hanging in the balance after intruder stabbed her playing hand
he career of Petra Kvitova, the two times Wimbledon champion, was hanging in the balance last night after an intruder stabbed her playing hand. Kvitova, 26, underwent four hours’ surgery yesterday evening after suffering severe lacerations to all four fingers of her left hand. The ligaments and tendons were damaged but the extent of her injuries will not be known until the outcome of the surgery can be assessed. The 26-year-old tennis star said in a statement  that she was “fortunate to be alive” after grappling with her attacker who lunged at her with a knife. er publicist described the incident as a “random crime” and insisted the intruder had not planned a premeditated attack on Kvitova, who won Wimbledon in 2011 and 2014. But the violent assault will nonetheless draw comparison with the on court stabbing of Monica Seles, the then world number one, in 1993. Seles, who was forced out of the game for two years, was knifed between the shoulder blades by an obsessive fan of her great rival Steffi Graf. Thank you for all your messages. As you may have already heard, today I was attacked in my apartment by an individual with a knife In my attempt to defend myself, I was badly injured on my left hand. I am shaken, but fortunate to be alive. The injury is severe and I will need to see specialists, but if you know anything about me I am strong and I will fight this. Thank you all again for your love and support vitova, who was ranked by Forbes as the sixth highest paid athlete last year with earnings of £6.3 million, was in her apartment in Prostejov in the Czech Republic when the intruder broke in. Police said the man posed as a boiler repair engineer to gain entry into her apartment block but would not be drawn on whether he had deliberately targeted the tennis player. Kvitova, the Czech Republic’s most famous female athlete, said in a statement posted on her Facebook and Twitter pages: “Thank you for all your heartwarming messages. “As you may have already heard, today I was attacked in my apartment by an individual with a knife. In my attempt to defend myself, I was badly injured on my left hand. “I am shaken, but fortunate to be alive. The injury is severe and I will need to see specialists, but if you know anything about me I am strong and I will fight this. Thank you all again for your love and support and now I would appreciate some privacy while I focus on my recovery.” Her spokesman Katie Spellman confirmed Kvitova, who won a bronze medal at the Rio Olympics, was yesterday evening undergoing an operation, expected to last four hours. The spokesman refused to speculate further on her career prospects until the surgery was completed. Kvitova’s publicist Karel Tejkal said: “It was a random crime, nobody was going to attack or rob her as Petra Kvitova.” Local police said the attacker was about 35-years-old and  had gained entry to the apartment block by posing as a boiler engineer. Once inside Kvitova’s home he attacked her with a knife. According to a Czech sports website, the robber stole 5,000 Czech Koruna (about £155). I am so disappointed that I cannot play at the @hopmancup The results of an MRI have confirmed that my foot is healing, but (1/2) pic.twitter.com/9OLvRxyjOA he tennis world was shocked by the attack, almost a quarter of a century after the stabbing of Seles. Martina Navratilova, the Czech-born nine times winner of Wimbledon who inspired Kvitova to play tennis, posted on Twitter: “Just finding out about @Petra_Kvitova and the awful stabbing and injury to her hand- pulling for you Petra.” Madison Keys, the world number eight, echoed the sentiments of the leading female tennis players, posting on Twitter: “So upset hearing the news about @Petra_Kvitova. Hands down one of the nicest people I’ve ever met. All my thoughts with her.” Kvitova turned professional in 2006 when aged just 16, rising to become world number two in 2011. Currently ranked 11th in the world, she had finished the 2016 season strongly. She was recovering from a foot injury when the attack happened. Franisek Korinek, a police spokesman, said he was unaware of any  similar attacks taking place in the area.  "All circumstances are being investigated to determine whether this  attack was a coincidence or not," he said.

Kvitova, who was ranked by Forbes as the sixth highest paid athlete last year with earnings of £6.3 million, was in her apartment in Prostejov in the Czech Republic when the intruder broke in.

Police said the man posed as a boiler repair engineer to gain entry into her apartment block but would not be drawn on whether he had deliberately targeted the tennis player.

Kvitova, the Czech Republic’s most famous female athlete, said in a statement posted on her Facebook and Twitter pages: “Thank you for all your heartwarming messages.

“As you may have already heard, today I was attacked in my apartment by an individual with a knife. In my attempt to defend myself, I was badly injured on my left hand.

“I am shaken, but fortunate to be alive. The injury is severe and I will need to see specialists, but if you know anything about me I am strong and I will fight this. Thank you all again for your love and support and now I would appreciate some privacy while I focus on my recovery.”

Her spokesman Katie Spellman confirmed Kvitova, who won a bronze medal at the Rio Olympics, was yesterday evening undergoing an operation, expected to last four hours.

The spokesman refused to speculate further on her career prospects until the surgery was completed.

Kvitova’s publicist Karel Tejkal said: “It was a random crime, nobody was going to attack or rob her as Petra Kvitova.”

Local police said the attacker was about 35-years-old and had gained entry to the apartment block by posing as a boiler engineer. Once inside Kvitova’s home he attacked her with a knife.

According to a Czech sports website, the robber stole 5,000 Czech Koruna (about £155).