Lidl gravy granules found to contain harmful paint thinner chemical a week before Christmas
Lidl gravy granules found to contain harmful paint thinner chemical a week before Christmas
Dangerous levels of a paint thinner chemical have been discovered in Lidl gravy a week before Christmas. The supermarket is recalling two batches of Kania GravyGranules after they were found to contain xylene, which occurs naturally in petroleum and crude oil, said the Food Standards Agency (FSA). Exposure to the harmful chemical poses a health risk, causing irritation of the mouth, throat, nose and lungs and in severe cases leading to heart problems, liver and kidney damage and coma, according to Public Health England . Read more Lidl becomes first supermarket to pay workers Living Wage Asda to slash grocery prices by 15% in latest round of price war Lidl promises to buy more from British farmers An alert on the FSA website read: "Exposure to xylene in food products represents a health risk as it can cause adverse effects such as headache, dizziness, nausea and vomiting. "The contaminant levels in this product exceed those set to minimise this risk and the product is therefore being recalled as a precaution." A notice issued by the supermarket said the products affected were 300g packets of Kania Gravy Granules for meat and for chicken with best before dates of October and November 2017. Other Kania products are not affected by the recall. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary   Rex     11 December 2016   Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK   Rex     11 December 2016   Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity   PA wire     8 December 2016   Gina Miller   Reuters     5 December 2016   Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier   PA wire     5 December 2016   Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London   PA wire     5 December 2016   Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences   PA wire     5 December 2016   Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing   Getty  A spokeswoman for Lidl said: "We were very sorry to hear of this matter and can confirm that an investigation was launched as soon as we were made aware. "We are taking the issue very seriously and are working closely with our supplier to identify the cause." The supermarket will display notices in all stores that sold the products, and customers are being urged to return the product for a full refund. More about: Lidl Gravy (sauce) Food Standards Agency Public Health England Comments

Dangerous levels of a paint thinner chemical have been discovered in Lidl gravy a week before Christmas.

The supermarket is recalling two batches of Kania GravyGranules after they were found to contain xylene, which occurs naturally in petroleum and crude oil, said the Food Standards Agency (FSA).

Exposure to the harmful chemical poses a health risk, causing irritation of the mouth, throat, nose and lungs and in severe cases leading to heart problems, liver and kidney damage and coma, according to Public Health England.

An alert on the FSA website read: "Exposure to xylene in food products represents a health risk as it can cause adverse effects such as headache, dizziness, nausea and vomiting.

"The contaminant levels in this product exceed those set to minimise this risk and the product is therefore being recalled as a precaution."

A notice issued by the supermarket said the products affected were 300g packets of Kania Gravy Granules for meat and for chicken with best before dates of October and November 2017.

Other Kania products are not affected by the recall.

UK news in pictures







10 show all UK news in pictures

















1/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

2/10 11 December 2016 Europe's largest Chinese Lantern Festival takes place at Longleat House to celebrate the Safari Park's 50th anniversary Rex

3/10 11 December 2016 Longleat Festival of Light, Wiltshire, UK Rex

4/10 11 December 2016 Thousands of runners in Santa costumes take part in the Glasgow Santa Dash to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity PA wire

5/10 8 December 2016 Gina Miller Reuters

6/10 5 December 2016 Sunrise over Tynemouth Castle and Priory on the Northeast coast, overlooking Tynemouth Pier PA wire

7/10 5 December 2016 Runners are silhouetted against trees and the early morning mist in Richmond Park, London PA wire

8/10 5 December 2016 A deer is silhouetted against the sky in Richmond Park, London PA wire

9/10 5 December 2016 Former lorry driver Ralph Clarke, 101, thought to be the oldest defendant in British legal history, arriving at Birmingham Crown Court where he is due to go on trial accused of a string of historical sexual offences PA wire

10/10 5 December 2016 Gina Miller, co-founder of investment fund SCM Private arrives at the Supreme court in London on the first day of a four-day hearing Getty

A spokeswoman for Lidl said: "We were very sorry to hear of this matter and can confirm that an investigation was launched as soon as we were made aware.

"We are taking the issue very seriously and are working closely with our supplier to identify the cause."

The supermarket will display notices in all stores that sold the products, and customers are being urged to return the product for a full refund.