Lloyds Bank buys credit card company MBNA from Bank of America for £1.9bn
Lloyds Bank buys credit card company MBNA from Bank of America for £1.9bn
Lloyds Banking Group has swooped for consumer credit card business MBNA from Bank of America in a £1.9bn deal. The banking giant said MBNA, which holds assets of £7bn, would deliver strong financial returns and bolster its position in the UK prime credit card market. Antonio Horta Osorio, group chief executive of Lloyds, said MBNA was a “good fit” with the bank’s current credit card business.   Taxpayers lose another £130m on Lloyds Bank bailout He added: “The acquisition, funded through strong internal capital generation, increases our participation in the expanding UK credit card market with a multi-brand strategy and advances our strategic aim to deliver sustainable growth as a UK focused retail and commercial bank.” The deal will provide a £650m-a-year boost to Lloyds’ group revenues, while enhancing the bank’s group net interest margin by around 10 basis points per year. Once it is given the green light by regulators, the tie-up is expected to be complete by the end of the first half of 2017. Read more Lloyds Banking Group: Have taxpayers got value for our investment? Lloyds share sale cuts Government stake to under 8% Lloyds PPI provisions reach a staggering £17bn. Who's really at fault Lloyds Bank sets aside another £1bn for PPI compensation The move will see Lloyds buy MBNA from Bank of America subsidiary FIA Jersey Holdings Limited, delivering cost savings of about £100m per year within two years. The savings would represent approximately 30 per cent of MBNA’s cost base in 2015, Lloyds said. The announcement comes after Lloyds took another step towards privatisation last week when the Government announced it had sold off a further chunk of the bank, taking its stake down to less than 7 per cent. It means more than £17.5bn has been returned to Government coffers since the lender’s £20.3bn bailout at the height of the financial crisis. In October, Lloyds said it had set aside another £1bn to meet compensation claims for the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (PPI) as it attempts to draw a line under the scandal. On the MBNA deal, the bank said its purchase price includes £240m for future PPI claims, adding that its “exposure of PPI liability” would be “capped at this amount”. Business picture of the day               Business picture of the day    NHS overcharged by 12,000% for hydrocortisone tablets by drug company Actavis, CMA claims - Friday December 16   Pharmaceutical company Actavis has been accused of overcharging the NHS by raising the price of hydrocortisone tablets by more than 12,000 per cent over the course of eight years.

Hydrocortisone tablets are used by people with adrenal insufficiency, a life-threatening condition where their adrenal glands do not produce enough natural steroid hormones.   AFP/Getty     Solar power becoming world's cheapest form of electricity production - Thursday December 15   Solar power is becoming the cheapest way to generate electricity, according to leading analysts.

Data produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) showed the cost of solar in 58 lower-income countries – including China, Brazil and India – had fallen to about a third of levels in 2010 and was now slightly cheaper than wind energy.   Jungle Herbs & Spices/Facebook     Italy’s largest bank Unicredit plans to slash 14,000 jobs over next two years - Tuesday December 13    Getty     Donald Trump knocks $3.5bn off Lockheed Martin market value with one tweet - Monday December 12   Barely a week after taking shots at Boeing, Donald Trump took aim at Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet programme, saying the cost was "out of control".Following the tweet on Monday morning, shares of the aerospace company plunged by more than 4 per cent in early trade. 

Based on the number of shares outstanding, the tweet has shaved just over $3.5bn from Lockheed's market value.   Getty     Brexit: Banks in 'advanced talks' over mass move to Paris, says French regulator - Thursday December 8   Leading international UK-based banks are in advanced stages of planning to shift operations to Paris as London braces for the impact of Brexit, France's chief financial regulator has said.

Paris is among a number of European cities seeking to woo firms considering a move away from London to maintain their access to EU markets, and faces competition from Dublin, Frankfurt and Luxembourg, among others.   Reuters     Pfizer fined record £84.2m for overcharging NHS 2600% -Wednesday December 7   Drug firms Pfizer and Flynn Pharma have been fined nearly £90m by the UK’s competition watchdog for “unfair” pricing to the NHS after hiking up the cost of an anti-epilepsy drug by up to 2,600 per cent.

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said these “extraordinary price rises” have costs taxpayers “tens of millions of pounds”.   Getty     Italian banks' shares fall after vote - Monday December5   Shares in Italian banks have again lost ground in early afternoon trading, following Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's heavy defeat in Sunday's referendum.
The shares have been dragged down by fears that a rescue of the troubled Monte dei Paschi bank might fail.   Getty Images     Prime Minister Theresa May visits constituency ahead of Small Business Saturday - Friday December2   The prime minister, Theresa May, visits butcher J&S Rook in her constituency of Maidenhead, ahead of Small Business Saturday   Stefan Wermuth PA Wire/PA Images     Oil prices soar as Opec countries agree first oil output cut in eight years - Wednesday November 30   Opec countries have agreed their first supply cut in eight years, sending the price of crude surging more than 8%.      Stores far from overwhelmed as Black Friday sales begins - November 25   People stream into the Apple store on 5th Avenue on Black Friday in New York .
Crowds were thin at U.S. malls and stores on Black Friday morning, formerly the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, with stores opening earlier and online sales expected to take the biggest share of gains in retail sales over last year.

In the New York and Chicago areas, shoppers said stores were less busy than previous years on the day after the Thanksgiving holiday.
The pictures similar in the UK the action has shifted from high street stores to become a predominantly online event   Reuters     Nintendo shares jump after it announces the launch date for Super Mario Run - Wednesday 16 November   The hugely anticipated game is an attempt to capitalise on the smartphone gaming market after the phenomenal success of Pokemon Go.   Getty     Pound rises as High Court rules against Theresa May triggering Article 50 without Parliament - Thursday November 3   The pound has risen against all of its major peers on Thursday after the Government announced it cannot trigger Article 50 without parliament approval and the Bank of England said it is no longer expecting to cut interest rates this year.      Heathrow third runway poses ‘serious obstacle’ to fight against climate change - Tuesday October 25   Environmental groups expressed dismay at the Government’s decision to give a third runway at the airport the go-ahead – and Greenpeace vowed to challenge it in the courts.

Allowing Heathrow to expand will create “a serious obstacle” to meeting the UK’s commitments on climate change and reducing air pollution, a leading scientist has warned.   Reclaim the Power     Nearly 10,000 people in China apply for one job - Monday October 24   Nearly ten thousands Chinese jobseekers are competing for one position: an officer worker at a political organisation.China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year.

Job seekers registering for the civil exams are required to pick the positions they are most interested in when they sign up for the test but one job was more popular than others.

China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year.   Reuters     Price of wine set to soar as production nears 20-year low - Friday 21 October   Vineyard manager Antonio Navarro looks at grapes ready to be harvested at the Casa Bianchi vineyard in San Rafael   Reuters     Banks consider ‘moving London staff to Luxembourg to get access to EU’ - Wednesday 19 October   The head of financial development for Luxembourg said a string of overseas banks and fund managers had explored moving London staff to the tiny country since the Brexit vote.

Nicolas Mackel said there had been “strong interest” from US and other non-EU firms assessing their options since June’s referendum.   Rex     The pound falls below €1.10 for the first time since March 2010 - Monday October 17   The pound has fallen below €1.10 for the first time in six and a half years, since March 2010.

Sterling has been under pressure since Britain voted to leave the European Union.

The pound has fallen by almost 20% against the against the dollar since the Brexit vote, trading below $1.22 and €1.10 on Monday.      Brexit: US banks are planning exodus from the UK, French minister says - Friday October 14   French finance Minister Michel Sapin said that US banks had confirmed to him they would move some activities out of Britain to other European countries as the UK prepares to leave the EU.

Sapin revealed that the executives of major US banks have told him they were working on contingency plans, after their meeting last week in Washington.      Tesco running out of products like Marmite and PG Tips amid Brexit price row with Unilever - Thursday October 13   Tesco has removed a number of popular products such as Marmite, Bovril and PG Tips from its online store following a price row with supplier Unilever over the plunging pound.

Multinational household goods giant Unilever has reportedly demanded a 10 per cent price rise in its products, including those made in the UK, to offset the higher cost of imported goods.   Reuters     FTSE falls after record mid-session high -  Wednesday October 12   Britain's index of leading shares slipped on Wednesday from record highs reached in the previous session, partly reflecting currency moves which weighed on some of its global companies

The blue-chip FTSE 100 equity index, which hit a record high of 7,129.83 points on Tuesday, fell 0.5 percent to 7,038.22 points. The FTSE 250 mid-cap index fell 0.4 percent but also remained near record highs reached this month.

The dollar dipped while sterling rebounded a touch from a brutal sell-off this month, as British Prime Minister Theresa May's offer to give lawmakers some scrutiny of the process behind Britain's plans to leave the European Union calmed market fears of a "hard Brexit".   Getty Images     Samsung Galaxy Note 7 permanently discontinued - Tuesday October 11   Samsung finally bowed to pressure, permanently ceasing production of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7. The move came after replacement versions of its flagship phone phone - which Samsung claimed were safe - also burst into flames. October 12 2016.   Reuters     Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmström awarded Nobel prize for economics - Monday October 10   Two academics recognised for their work on contract theory, which can be applied to everything from CEO pay to privatisations.   Getty Images     Pound value plunges 6% in 2 minutes in mysterious flash crash - Friday October 7   The British pound has suffered a sudden collapse hitting a new 31-year low against the US dollar in mysterious circumstances, sparking market chaos in “insane” early trading.
The drop was sterling's biggest since Britain voted to leave the EU in June.
Sterling plunged more than 6 per cent to $1.1841 in two minutes, prompting traders to speculate about a possible trigger.      Pound sterling value hits another new 31-year low against the dollar amid hard Brexit fears - Wednesday October 5   Sterling has continued its “slippery decline” as ongoing fears over the consequences of "hard Brexit" haunt investor attraction towards the currency.
The currency has fallen below the “psychologically important” $1.27 level, down 0.3 per cent to $1.2695 in early trading on Wednesday, extending Tuesday’s selloff.   AFP/Getty     Pound drops to 31-year low Against dollar on brexit concerns - Tuesday October 4   Sterling’s broke through its post-referendum low to reach levels not seen in over 30 years. 
sterling hit an intraday low of $1.2736 on Tuesday morning. That surpasses the post-referendum low of $1.2798 reached on the day after the vote, which was the lowest level seen since the mid-1980s.   Getty     Philip Hammond ditches George Osborne's 15% corporation tax cut target - Monday October 3   Chancellor Philip Hammond has apparently rejected the plan of his predecessor George Osborne to slash corporation tax to just 15 per cent in the wake of the UK’s Brexit vote.

In early July Mr Osborne said he wanted to push the levy on company profits to 15 per cent as a bold signal to global companies that the UK is still “open for business” despite the vote to leave the EU.
In his speech to the Conservative Party conference in Birmingham today, Mr Hammond made no reference to that 15 per cent goal, merely referencing the existing policy for the levy to decline to 17 per cent.   AFP/Getty     Global stock markets rally as OPEC agrees to slash oil production for first time since 2008   The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has struck a deal to cut production for the first time in eight years, sending crude prices surging.


READ MORE
Oil price surges as Russia, Saudi Arabia promise co-operation
In a decision led by a rapprochement between Saudi Arabia and Iran, who had repeatedly clashed during previous meetings, OPEC ministers decided to cut production by 750,000 barrels a day, down to 32.5 million barrels.   Rex  MBNA, which booked post-tax profits of £123m in first half of 2016, will be kept as a challenger brand and help Lloyds strengthen its credit cards market share from 15 per cent to 26 per cent. The bank said its underlying and statutory performance was strong and it remains on track to deliver “a progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend in 2016”. Lloyds announced in October that statutory pre-tax profits had fallen 15 per cent year on year in the third quarter at £811m, as it revealed more provisions for PPI mis-selling. Underlying profit for the third quarter came in 3 per cent down at just under £2bn. More about: Lloyds MBNA Comments

1/27 NHS overcharged by 12,000% for hydrocortisone tablets by drug company Actavis, CMA claims - Friday December 16 Pharmaceutical company Actavis has been accused of overcharging the NHS by raising the price of hydrocortisone tablets by more than 12,000 per cent over the course of eight years. Hydrocortisone tablets are used by people with adrenal insufficiency, a life-threatening condition where their adrenal glands do not produce enough natural steroid hormones. AFP/Getty

2/27 Solar power becoming world's cheapest form of electricity production - Thursday December 15 Solar power is becoming the cheapest way to generate electricity, according to leading analysts. Data produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) showed the cost of solar in 58 lower-income countries – including China, Brazil and India – had fallen to about a third of levels in 2010 and was now slightly cheaper than wind energy. Jungle Herbs & Spices/Facebook

3/27 Italy’s largest bank Unicredit plans to slash 14,000 jobs over next two years - Tuesday December 13 Getty

4/27 Donald Trump knocks $3.5bn off Lockheed Martin market value with one tweet - Monday December 12 Barely a week after taking shots at Boeing, Donald Trump took aim at Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet programme, saying the cost was "out of control".Following the tweet on Monday morning, shares of the aerospace company plunged by more than 4 per cent in early trade. Based on the number of shares outstanding, the tweet has shaved just over $3.5bn from Lockheed's market value. Getty

5/27 Brexit: Banks in 'advanced talks' over mass move to Paris, says French regulator - Thursday December 8 Leading international UK-based banks are in advanced stages of planning to shift operations to Paris as London braces for the impact of Brexit, France's chief financial regulator has said. Paris is among a number of European cities seeking to woo firms considering a move away from London to maintain their access to EU markets, and faces competition from Dublin, Frankfurt and Luxembourg, among others. Reuters

6/27 Pfizer fined record £84.2m for overcharging NHS 2600% -Wednesday December 7 Drug firms Pfizer and Flynn Pharma have been fined nearly £90m by the UK’s competition watchdog for “unfair” pricing to the NHS after hiking up the cost of an anti-epilepsy drug by up to 2,600 per cent. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said these “extraordinary price rises” have costs taxpayers “tens of millions of pounds”. Getty

7/27 Italian banks' shares fall after vote - Monday December5 Shares in Italian banks have again lost ground in early afternoon trading, following Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's heavy defeat in Sunday's referendum. The shares have been dragged down by fears that a rescue of the troubled Monte dei Paschi bank might fail. Getty Images

8/27 Prime Minister Theresa May visits constituency ahead of Small Business Saturday - Friday December2 The prime minister, Theresa May, visits butcher J&S Rook in her constituency of Maidenhead, ahead of Small Business Saturday Stefan Wermuth PA Wire/PA Images

9/27 Oil prices soar as Opec countries agree first oil output cut in eight years - Wednesday November 30 Opec countries have agreed their first supply cut in eight years, sending the price of crude surging more than 8%.

10/27 Stores far from overwhelmed as Black Friday sales begins - November 25 People stream into the Apple store on 5th Avenue on Black Friday in New York . Crowds were thin at U.S. malls and stores on Black Friday morning, formerly the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, with stores opening earlier and online sales expected to take the biggest share of gains in retail sales over last year. In the New York and Chicago areas, shoppers said stores were less busy than previous years on the day after the Thanksgiving holiday. The pictures similar in the UK the action has shifted from high street stores to become a predominantly online event Reuters

11/27 Nintendo shares jump after it announces the launch date for Super Mario Run - Wednesday 16 November The hugely anticipated game is an attempt to capitalise on the smartphone gaming market after the phenomenal success of Pokemon Go. Getty

12/27 Pound rises as High Court rules against Theresa May triggering Article 50 without Parliament - Thursday November 3 The pound has risen against all of its major peers on Thursday after the Government announced it cannot trigger Article 50 without parliament approval and the Bank of England said it is no longer expecting to cut interest rates this year.

13/27 Heathrow third runway poses ‘serious obstacle’ to fight against climate change - Tuesday October 25 Environmental groups expressed dismay at the Government’s decision to give a third runway at the airport the go-ahead – and Greenpeace vowed to challenge it in the courts. Allowing Heathrow to expand will create “a serious obstacle” to meeting the UK’s commitments on climate change and reducing air pollution, a leading scientist has warned. Reclaim the Power

14/27 Nearly 10,000 people in China apply for one job - Monday October 24 Nearly ten thousands Chinese jobseekers are competing for one position: an officer worker at a political organisation.China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year. Job seekers registering for the civil exams are required to pick the positions they are most interested in when they sign up for the test but one job was more popular than others. China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year. Reuters

15/27 Price of wine set to soar as production nears 20-year low - Friday 21 October Vineyard manager Antonio Navarro looks at grapes ready to be harvested at the Casa Bianchi vineyard in San Rafael Reuters

16/27 Banks consider ‘moving London staff to Luxembourg to get access to EU’ - Wednesday 19 October The head of financial development for Luxembourg said a string of overseas banks and fund managers had explored moving London staff to the tiny country since the Brexit vote. Nicolas Mackel said there had been “strong interest” from US and other non-EU firms assessing their options since June’s referendum. Rex

17/27 The pound falls below €1.10 for the first time since March 2010 - Monday October 17 The pound has fallen below €1.10 for the first time in six and a half years, since March 2010. Sterling has been under pressure since Britain voted to leave the European Union. The pound has fallen by almost 20% against the against the dollar since the Brexit vote, trading below $1.22 and €1.10 on Monday.

18/27 Brexit: US banks are planning exodus from the UK, French minister says - Friday October 14 French finance Minister Michel Sapin said that US banks had confirmed to him they would move some activities out of Britain to other European countries as the UK prepares to leave the EU. Sapin revealed that the executives of major US banks have told him they were working on contingency plans, after their meeting last week in Washington.

19/27 Tesco running out of products like Marmite and PG Tips amid Brexit price row with Unilever - Thursday October 13 Tesco has removed a number of popular products such as Marmite, Bovril and PG Tips from its online store following a price row with supplier Unilever over the plunging pound. Multinational household goods giant Unilever has reportedly demanded a 10 per cent price rise in its products, including those made in the UK, to offset the higher cost of imported goods. Reuters

20/27 FTSE falls after record mid-session high - Wednesday October 12 Britain's index of leading shares slipped on Wednesday from record highs reached in the previous session, partly reflecting currency moves which weighed on some of its global companies The blue-chip FTSE 100 equity index, which hit a record high of 7,129.83 points on Tuesday, fell 0.5 percent to 7,038.22 points. The FTSE 250 mid-cap index fell 0.4 percent but also remained near record highs reached this month. The dollar dipped while sterling rebounded a touch from a brutal sell-off this month, as British Prime Minister Theresa May's offer to give lawmakers some scrutiny of the process behind Britain's plans to leave the European Union calmed market fears of a "hard Brexit". Getty Images

21/27 Samsung Galaxy Note 7 permanently discontinued - Tuesday October 11 Samsung finally bowed to pressure, permanently ceasing production of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7. The move came after replacement versions of its flagship phone phone - which Samsung claimed were safe - also burst into flames. October 12 2016. Reuters

22/27 Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmström awarded Nobel prize for economics - Monday October 10 Two academics recognised for their work on contract theory, which can be applied to everything from CEO pay to privatisations. Getty Images

23/27 Pound value plunges 6% in 2 minutes in mysterious flash crash - Friday October 7 The British pound has suffered a sudden collapse hitting a new 31-year low against the US dollar in mysterious circumstances, sparking market chaos in “insane” early trading. The drop was sterling's biggest since Britain voted to leave the EU in June. Sterling plunged more than 6 per cent to $1.1841 in two minutes, prompting traders to speculate about a possible trigger.

24/27 Pound sterling value hits another new 31-year low against the dollar amid hard Brexit fears - Wednesday October 5 Sterling has continued its “slippery decline” as ongoing fears over the consequences of "hard Brexit" haunt investor attraction towards the currency. The currency has fallen below the “psychologically important” $1.27 level, down 0.3 per cent to $1.2695 in early trading on Wednesday, extending Tuesday’s selloff. AFP/Getty

25/27 Pound drops to 31-year low Against dollar on brexit concerns - Tuesday October 4 Sterling’s broke through its post-referendum low to reach levels not seen in over 30 years. sterling hit an intraday low of $1.2736 on Tuesday morning. That surpasses the post-referendum low of $1.2798 reached on the day after the vote, which was the lowest level seen since the mid-1980s. Getty

26/27 Philip Hammond ditches George Osborne's 15% corporation tax cut target - Monday October 3 Chancellor Philip Hammond has apparently rejected the plan of his predecessor George Osborne to slash corporation tax to just 15 per cent in the wake of the UK’s Brexit vote. In early July Mr Osborne said he wanted to push the levy on company profits to 15 per cent as a bold signal to global companies that the UK is still “open for business” despite the vote to leave the EU. In his speech to the Conservative Party conference in Birmingham today, Mr Hammond made no reference to that 15 per cent goal, merely referencing the existing policy for the levy to decline to 17 per cent. AFP/Getty