VMwareVoice: How The Cloud Helped A School District Handle A Texas-Sized Growth Spurt
VMwareVoice: How The Cloud Helped A School District Handle A Texas-Sized Growth Spurt
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  VMware       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As student enrollment surged, the Hutto Independent School District near Austin, Texas turned to technology to handle the growth. The K-12 district in the course of 10 years had grown from 1,000 students on one campus to 6,600 students on 10 campuses, school figures show. Each year, an additional 300 students enroll. “Being a school district, we have to consider that everything comes out of taxpayer dollars, so we have to pick the right solution the first time,” said the district's network administrator, Chris Harding. "Tight budgets have encouraged us to develop creative solutions." Hutto initially virtualized some of its desktops, enabling students and teachers to easily and securely access a single digital workspace while saving $250,000 annually in power costs and saving teachers time. Previously, teachers spent up to 25 minutes moving students to and from computer labs. With virtual desktops, students could access high-quality software and learning environments via Chromebooks in their classrooms. Demand for virtualization grew until the number of virtual machines expanded from 150 to 1,500 — 10 times what Hutto officials had expected. With this rapid growth, Hutto soon realized that traditional network segmentation in the data center was simply not cutting it. “I was spending probably five to six hours a week just working on getting things handled,” Harding said. "There wasn’t that much more time I could afford to dedicate. I was already working seven days a week.” Security concerns had risen along with traffic bottlenecks. The school district needed a solution that would address both challenges without busting its limited budget. That solution arrived in the form of the VMware NSX network virtualization platform, which the district installed atop existing Cisco networking hardware. NSX abstracts networking functionality and intelligence from the underlying hardware while working in tandem with hardware-defined solutions. Installing NSX enabled the district to flatten its network and reduce maintenance time. The load balancing capabilities built into NSX reduced the amount of networking hardware that was needed. And, with micro-segmentation, NSX provided security that otherwise would have required a physical firewall. "NSX gives us the agility to change and adapt our network design, especially in a virtual environment, without having to purchase new equipment and re-cable," said Travis Brown, the district’s director of technology. "It’s a great combination.” Network virtualization also positioned the school district to tackle problems that might come from future growth and tight budgets. "We’re going to be able to scale this even if we grow to 15 or 20 times our size,” Harding said. "It’s just going to keep working natively, and the load will be distributed. When it comes time to replace the hardware, we can do that because the software won’t change."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As student enrollment surged, the Hutto Independent School District near Austin, Texas turned to technology to handle the growth.

The K-12 district in the course of 10 years had grown from 1,000 students on one campus to 6,600 students on 10 campuses, school figures show. Each year, an additional 300 students enroll.

“Being a school district, we have to consider that everything comes out of taxpayer dollars, so we have to pick the right solution the first time,” said the district's network administrator, Chris Harding. "Tight budgets have encouraged us to develop creative solutions."

Connected Chromebooks

Hutto initially virtualized some of its desktops, enabling students and teachers to easily and securely access a single digital workspace while saving $250,000 annually in power costs and saving teachers time.

Previously, teachers spent up to 25 minutes moving students to and from computer labs. With virtual desktops, students could access high-quality software and learning environments via Chromebooks in their classrooms.

Demand for virtualization grew until the number of virtual machines expanded from 150 to 1,500 — 10 times what Hutto officials had expected. With this rapid growth, Hutto soon realized that traditional network segmentation in the data center was simply not cutting it.

“I was spending probably five to six hours a week just working on getting things handled,” Harding said. "There wasn’t that much more time I could afford to dedicate. I was already working seven days a week.”

Security concerns had risen along with traffic bottlenecks. The school district needed a solution that would address both challenges without busting its limited budget.

Software For The Network

That solution arrived in the form of the VMware NSX network virtualization platform, which the district installed atop existing Cisco networking hardware. NSX abstracts networking functionality and intelligence from the underlying hardware while working in tandem with hardware-defined solutions.

Installing NSX enabled the district to flatten its network and reduce maintenance time. The load balancing capabilities built into NSX reduced the amount of networking hardware that was needed. And, with micro-segmentation, NSX provided security that otherwise would have required a physical firewall.

"NSX gives us the agility to change and adapt our network design, especially in a virtual environment, without having to purchase new equipment and re-cable," said Travis Brown, the district’s director of technology. "It’s a great combination.”

Continued Growth Expected

Network virtualization also positioned the school district to tackle problems that might come from future growth and tight budgets.

"We’re going to be able to scale this even if we grow to 15 or 20 times our size,” Harding said. "It’s just going to keep working natively, and the load will be distributed. When it comes time to replace the hardware, we can do that because the software won’t change."