John Wick 2 trailer: Keanu Reeves goes off in high-octane sequel
John Wick 2 trailer: Keanu Reeves goes off in high-octane sequel
Popular videos    Three people injured by gunman at Islamic centre in Zurich      Nicole Kidman cries over hopes of watching her children grow up      The attack on Berlin's Christmas market ended my leftie fantasy      Angela Merkel on Berlin attack: 'We must assume it was terrorism'   New dog, new rules. is headed straight back to screens, as Keanu Reeves' suited-and-booted assassin takes his whirlwind of revenge to Rome; this time being joined by co-star Laurence Fishburne for what's guaranteed to be lots of expertly filmed mayhem, as it appears poor Wick's suddenly got a price on his head. One of last year's breakout hits, 's high-octane thrills took the revenge flick to new levels; as Reeves' infamous assassin obliterates New York's Russian mafia after the death of his beloved pooch. With the film ending in the adoption of new, little pup; fans will now surely be left on tenterhooks as to whether this second dog makes it to the sequel's end credits.   Deadpool 2: John Wick director confirmed "I really liked putting this suit back on and doing what John Wick gets to do," said Reeves at the New York Comic-Con Lionsgate panel, where the trailer was first revealed ( via ). "He’s a guy that’s really fighting to be free." The actor previously teased; "I think we have a really good premise, and it’s an organic premise. It’s basically — to me there’s John Wick and then there’s John. You know, John is the married guy whose wife just died, and that five years of his life. Then there’s John Wick, who’s the mythical assassin. In this, John Wick’s past comes and infiltrates John’s life and John Wick, in a way, has to fight for John." Screenwriter Derek Kolstad also revealed the film takes place about a week after the first one; explaining, "There's this item called a Marker, which is regulated by The Continental, and it's kind of a blood oath, meaning that John Wick gave someone the ultimate request so that he could get out of the life. And because he's resurfaced, they have resurfaced to actually cash it in. But John Wick is changed." hits UK cinemas 17 February 2017. More about: John Wick: Chapter 2 John Wick Comments

New dog, new rules.

John Wick: Chapter 2 is headed straight back to screens, as Keanu Reeves' suited-and-booted assassin takes his whirlwind of revenge to Rome; this time being joined by Matrix co-star Laurence Fishburne for what's guaranteed to be lots of expertly filmed mayhem, as it appears poor Wick's suddenly got a price on his head.

One of last year's breakout hits, John Wick's high-octane thrills took the revenge flick to new levels; as Reeves' infamous assassin obliterates New York's Russian mafia after the death of his beloved pooch. With the film ending in the adoption of new, little pup; fans will now surely be left on tenterhooks as to whether this second dog makes it to the sequel's end credits.

"I really liked putting this suit back on and doing what John Wick gets to do," said Reeves at the New York Comic-Con Lionsgate panel, where the trailer was first revealed (via IGN). "He’s a guy that’s really fighting to be free."

The actor previously teased; "I think we have a really good premise, and it’s an organic premise. It’s basically — to me there’s John Wick and then there’s John. You know, John is the married guy whose wife just died, and that five years of his life. Then there’s John Wick, who’s the mythical assassin. In this, John Wick’s past comes and infiltrates John’s life and John Wick, in a way, has to fight for John."

Screenwriter Derek Kolstad also revealed the film takes place about a week after the first one; explaining, "There's this item called a Marker, which is regulated by The Continental, and it's kind of a blood oath, meaning that John Wick gave someone the ultimate request so that he could get out of the life. And because he's resurfaced, they have resurfaced to actually cash it in. But John Wick is changed."

John Wick: Chapter 2 hits UK cinemas 17 February 2017.