Record number of electoral college voters defect as Donald Trump is officially confirmed as 45th president
Record number of electoral college voters defect as Donald Trump is officially confirmed as 45th president
record number of electoral college members have turned their backs on Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, refusing to vote for either candidate and marking a chaotic end to a deeply-divisive election year. Across the United States on Monday, 538 “electors” – chosen by each state to recognise their service and dedication to that political party – gathered in state capitals to cast their votes according to how that state voted. But seven electors defied convention and went against the popular vote, cast on November 8. he figure is the highest since 1808, when six Democratic-Republican electors opposed James Madison. It’s also the first time since 1832 in which more than a single elector cast a “faithless” vote. The majority of the votes were cast in Washington state, where four people voted against Mrs Clinton’s win in their state – three casting votes for the Republican former secretary of state Colin Powell, and a fourth voting for Native American activist Faith Spotted Eagle. A fifth vote against Mrs Clinton came from Hawaii, where one elector voted for Bernie Sanders.  The only two anti-Trump votes occurred in Texas. One, cast by elector Chris Suprun for Ohio governor John Kasich, was expected. But a second, cast by an unknown elector for libertarian Ron Paul, was a surprise. Mr Trump was declared officially the president-elect when the Texas votes were counted, pushing him over the 270-vote threshold. The results will be confirmed on January 6, before his January 20 inauguration. Mr Trump has previously ridiculed the electoral college system, but now says that was because he didn't appreciate its "genius". We did it! Thank you to all of my great supporters, we just officially won the election (despite all of the distorted and inaccurate media). e tweeted his delight, celebrating with a customary dig at the press: “We did it! Thank you to all of my great supporters, we just officially won the election (despite all of the distorted and inaccurate media).” Yesterday the president-elect, currently on holiday in Florida, was back on Twitter, attacking Bill Clinton – one of the electors for New York state – over an interview he gave to his local paper in which he lamented the election result. Mr Clinton told a weekly newspaper that Mr Trump "doesn't know much," adding: "One thing he does know is how to get angry, white men to vote for him." Bill Clinton stated that I called him after the election. Wrong, he called me (with a very nice congratulations). He "doesn't know much" ... especially how to get people, even with an unlimited budget, out to vote in the vital swing states ( and more). They focused on wrong states he ex-president also claimed that the president-elect called him after his election victory over Mrs Clinton. r Trump retorted: "Bill Clinton stated that I called him after the election. Wrong, he called me (with a very nice congratulations)." Mr Trump added that Mr Clinton is the one who "'doesn't know much'... especially how to get people, even with an unlimited budget, out to vote in the vital swing states (and more)."   The Clinton campaign, Mr Trump said, "focused on the wrong states."

The figure is the highest since 1808, when six Democratic-Republican electors opposed James Madison. It’s also the first time since 1832 in which more than a single elector cast a “faithless” vote.

The majority of the votes were cast in Washington state, where four people voted against Mrs Clinton’s win in their state – three casting votes for the Republican former secretary of state Colin Powell, and a fourth voting for Native American activist Faith Spotted Eagle.

A fifth vote against Mrs Clinton came from Hawaii, where one elector voted for Bernie Sanders. The only two anti-Trump votes occurred in Texas.

One, cast by elector Chris Suprun for Ohio governor John Kasich, was expected. But a second, cast by an unknown elector for libertarian Ron Paul, was a surprise.

Mr Trump was declared officially the president-elect when the Texas votes were counted, pushing him over the 270-vote threshold. The results will be confirmed on January 6, before his January 20 inauguration.

Mr Trump has previously ridiculed the electoral college system, but now says that was because he didn't appreciate its "genius".