Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova tells of moment she was stabbed
'I'm lucky to be alive': Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova stabbed


Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova has been injured by a knife-wielding attacker, believed to be a burglar, at her home in the Czech Republic.

Kvitova, 26, was stabbed in the left hand when she tried to defend herself but her injuries are not life-threatening.

She tweeted: 'In my attempt to defend myself, I was badly injured on my left hand. I am shaken, but fortunate to be alive.'

Kvitova was attacked this morning in the town of Prostejov in the east of the country, which is home to a national tennis academy.

Prostejov police spokesman Frantisek Korinek said the attacker, who was aged about 35, escaped from the house and a manhunt is under way.

Kvitova tweeted: 'The injury is severe and I will need to see specialists, but if you know anything about me I am strong and I will fight this. Thank you all again for your love and support.'

Kvitova kisses the Wimbledon trophy after winning in 2014, the second time she won the tournament

Kvitova was quick to tweet about the incident and it sounds like the injury is quite serious

The Czech player, one of the most popular on the circuit, was quick to thank all those who had sent her messages of support on social media

WTA TENNIS RANKINGS 1 Angelique Kerber - GERMANY 2 Serena Williams - USA 3 Agnieszka Radwanska - POLAND 4 Simona Halep - ROMANIA 5 Dominika Cibulkova - SLOVAKIA 6 Karolina Pliskova - CZECH REP 7 Garbine Muguruza - SPAIN 8 Madison Keys - USA 9 Svetlana Kuznetsova - RUSSIA 10 Johanna Konta - BRITAIN 11 Petra Kvitova - CZECH REP

A message from Kvitova appeared on the Czech Federation Cup team's Facebook page, in which she said: 'Thank you all for your messages and support. What happened to me, it was certainly not pleasant, but it's behind me.'

She said she trusted the doctors who were examining her arm and hand and added: 'I have the best care and I'm in contact with my loved ones. Thanks again for thinking of me. Don't worry about me! Petra.'

Czech tennis legend Martina Navratilova tweeted later: 'Just finding out about Petra Kvitova and the awful stabbing and injury to her hand - pulling for you Petra, všichni držíme palce [fingers crossed]!!! Xoxo.'

And the world number eight, Madison Keys, tweeted: 'So upset hearing the news about Petra Kvitova. Hands down one of the nicest people I've ever met. All my thoughts with her.'

Kvitova, who reportedly broke up with her boyfriend, Czech ice hockey player Radek Meidl, earlier this year, is reputed to be worth £12million.

There is no suggestion she recognised her attacker, who she described on Twitter as an 'individual with a knife'.

Earlier today she withdrew from the Czech Republic team at next month's Hopman Cup mixed-team tennis tournament in Australia because of a foot injury.

Only hours before being stabbed, Kvitova had tweeted: 'I am so disappointed that I cannot play at the @hopmancup. The results of an MRI have confirmed that my foot is healing but…not as quickly as I would have liked. The Hopman Cup is a fantastic event and I'm sorry I won't be able to represent my country there.'

Kvitova, a left-hander, reacts to winning a point during the the Fed Cup final earlier this year

Kvitova (right) reportedly broke up with her boyfriend Radek Meidl (left) earlier this year. Meidl, 28, was born in Prostejov, the town where she has a home

The player's spokesman, Karel Tejkal, said: 'Petra Kvitova was attacked in her flat this morning, it was a random crime, nobody was going to attack or rob her as Petra Kvitova.

'She was injured with a knife during the attempted burglary. Her life is not in danger, she is being treated by doctors.'

Kvitova first won Wimbledon in 2011, beating Maria Sharapova in the final.

Three years later she won the tournament again, thrashing France's Eugenie Bouchard.

Petra Kvitova (left) poses with German tennis legend Steffi Graf after winning the women's singles final match in the 2016 WTA Elite Trophy in China last month

The attack took place in Prostejov (pictured), a small but picturesque town in Moravia

Kvitova lives in Monte Carlo, for tax purposes, but she has a home in Prostejov, where she trains at the town's famous academy, which has turned out a constant flow of high quality Czech tennis players over the years.

Prostejov is in the Moravia region, close to the town of Olomouc.

Kvitova poses with Novak Djokovic after winning her first Wimbledon back in 2011

Kvitova attended the annual WTA Pre-Wimbledon Party at the Kensington Roof Gardens in June and signed autographs for children

Kvitova (left) had been in a relationship with ice hockey player Radek Meidl (right) but the couple broke up earlier this year. She is not believed to have known her attacker

Kvitova's place in the Czech Republic team will be taken by three-time Grand Slam doubles champion Lucie Hradecka who will partner with Adam Pavlasek.

They will play Jack Sock and Coco Vandeweghe of the United States in their opening match on January 1.

Kvitova, who is suffering from a stress fracture, was hoping to fit enough to play the Australian Open later in January but today's incident is set to put her participation in major doubt.

Kvitova was attacked during a burglary and her injuries are not believed to be life-threatening

It is too early to say what the attacker's move was but there will inevitably be fears that he was a stalker or even a fan of one of her rivals.

In April 1993 Monica Seles was stabbed in the back during a tournament in Hamburg by Gunter Parche, an obsessive fan of her rival Steffi Graf.

Parche reached over a railing and stabbed between her shoulder blades.

Seles returned to the game 27 months later and reached the 1995 US Open final but never regained her position at the top of the game.