Was this murderous attack on a Russian diplomat revenge for Turkey's dirty deal with Putin?
Was this murderous attack revenge for Turkey's dirty deal with Putin?


This murderous attack on a senior diplomat came just one day before the Russians were due to host Turkey and Iran’s foreign ministers in Moscow.

They were expected to discuss the evacuation of civilians from the recently retaken areas of eastern Aleppo, which were held by Islamist Syrian rebels until just a few days ago.

It is that very unity of purpose between Russia and Turkey in particular that appears to have been behind this cowardly attack in an Ankara art gallery by a 22-year-old Turkish riot squad police officer.

This murderous attack on a senior diplomat came just one day before the Russians were due to host Turkey and Iran’s foreign ministers in Moscow. Pictured, Putin at a meeting tonight

The words of Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş (left) after the fatal shooting of Russian ambassador Andrei Karlov (right) were: ‘Allahu Akbar (God is great). We die in Aleppo, you die here!’

Rant: Altintas shouts ‘Allahu akbar [God is great]’ as Andrei Karlov lies dying on the floor after the fatal gallery shooting

The words of a man named locally as Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş after the fatal shooting of Russian ambassador Andrei Karlov were: ‘Allahu Akbar (God is great). We die in Aleppo, you die here!’ If that is indeed what he said, it seems reasonable to assume he is a supporter of those who have died at the hands of Bashar Assad’s forces, which now control the benighted Syrian city.

The Syrian dictator’s crucial victories on this and other battlefields are entirely due to Iranian-backed and directed militias, which have been operating under Russian air cover. But it is the role of Turkey alongside that trio of allied nations which is key to understanding the blood-soaked events in Ankara last night.

Earlier in the five-year Syrian civil war the autocratic president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, sided with the rebel groups who were attempting to topple Assad. Though the two men had once holidayed together with their wives, Erdogan called on his younger protege to stand down.

Turkey – a Muslim nation – even hosted the political leaders of the rebels and allowed armed groups (including Islamic State) to move recruits and supplies over the border into Syria. Turkey also refused to allow Nato, of which it is a member, to use nearby Incirlik airfield as a base from which to bomb IS.

Russia’s entry into the Syrian civil war in support of its ally Assad complicated Turkey’s position, because the two nations know each other of old. They have fought 12 wars, all of which the Turks lost. Erdogan is a strongman and was determined not to allow Vladimir Putin to ride roughshod over his corner of the Middle East.

Russian, Turkish and Iranian ministers were expected to discuss the evacuation of civilians from the recently retaken areas of eastern Aleppo, which were held by Islamist Syrian rebels until just a few days ago. Pictured, evacuated civilians arrive in a rebel-held town

For that reason, in November 2015 a Turkish fighter shot down a Russian Sukhoi 24 jet after it crossed into Turkish airspace for all of 17 seconds. One crew member was shot dead while descending by parachute. The second was captured by Ankara’s ‘Turkmen’ allies in Syria, though he subsequently escaped and was rescued.

In a vengeful mood, President Putin ordered economic sanctions on Turkey, which depends heavily on Russian natural gas supplies, and bombarded the Turkmen with missiles. Erdogan, he said, was a patron of terrorists.

Yet after several months in the deep freeze, Russo-Turkish relations have now recovered – which may well be one of the reasons behind last night’s assassination.

Apart from nearly being overthrown by a coup last July, Erdogan faces a massive threat from the Kurds, which are the world’s largest ethnic group (35million people) without a state of their own. Their populations straddle Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey, where they number 14.5million. In northern Iraq, the Kurds have carved out an autonomous state – Kurdistan – which in almost every sense is independent of the Arab government in Baghdad, and their army, the Peshmerga have fought valiantly against IS.

There have been angry demonstrations outside Russian diplomatic missions in Turkey after the bloody denouement in Aleppo. Pictured, one such protest

Due to the civil war in Syria, the Kurdish minority there are in the process of forming a statelet running along Syria’s northern border with Turkey. They call this Rojava, which means ‘western Kurdistan’. But Erdogan – constantly at war with the Kurdish separatists who have been repressed in Turkey for decades – will do almost anything to stop that happening. He does not want the Kurds in Turkey to coalesce with their kinsmen in Syria and Iraq. If that happens, a chunk of Turkey could disappear.

To thwart the Kurds, Erdogan has troops operating in northern Syria – and in order to guarantee them freedom to deploy as he wishes, he has had to strike a deal with Moscow. He promised Putin he would stop calling for Assad to step down, in exchange for Russia allowing Turkish troops to do largely as they wish. This deal has infuriated Turkish Islamists, who felt betrayed by it. If they are behind the murder of the Russian ambassador then they have chosen a soft target whose death they will regard as some small revenge for the many thousands who have been slaughtered in Aleppo and elsewhere by Assad and his allies.

There have been angry demonstrations outside Russian diplomatic missions in Turkey after the bloody denouement in Aleppo, so it is likely the Turkish killer felt angry about the Russian role in Aleppo, as well as a sense of betrayal by his own president’s friendly dealings with Putin.

The one reassuring element in all this is that the ambassador’s death should not turn into a spark – like the killing of Archduke Ferdinand in 1914, which led to the First World War – that sets off a wider conflagration between East and West.

For now, Russia has predictably blamed unnamed Western intelligence agencies.

It is possible, of course, that Islamic State had a hand in the assassination, sensing that Russia and Iran were about to join the forces massing against them once Donald Trump, who has promised to crush IS, is in the White House.

Certainly, IS seems to be doing all it can to sow fear and discord across Europe. An hour after the ambassador was killed in Ankara, a lorry was driven into a crowd at a Christmas market in Berlin.