Q. & A.: How to Give Back During the Holidays
Q. & A.: How to Give Back During the Holidays
Matthew Haag Staff Editor  Hello readers! We’re excited to chat with you today about ways you can give back during the holidays, whether it is by volunteering or through charitable donations, and what it means for your taxes. How do you find an organization in your community to support? What type of aid is needed most? Can you deduct contributions to individuals on your taxes? Beginning at 3 p.m., we will spend the next hour answering your questions.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Hi, Ron Lieber here, I write the Your Money personal finance column here at the NYT. Last week, I did a piece about how to give the gift of giving to kids and teens. Ask me anything! Six Ways to Give the Gift of Generosity to Children and Teenagers Here is a guide to help you teach young people about philanthropy and offer them the tools to give. The New York Times    Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  Hi, I’m Toba Kerson, the Mary Hale Chase Professor Emeritus at Bryn Mawr College outside Philadelphia. Educated as both a social worker and a sociologist, I am primarily interested in helping people manage chronic physical and mental conditions.   Devorah Weiss Social worker on Staten Island  Hello, everyone. I’m Devorah Weiss, a a social worker at the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty and the Jewish Community Center of Staten Island, both beneficiary agencies of UJA-Federation of New York. UJA-Federation is one of the eight beneficiary organizations of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times wrote about my work in a Neediest Cases story in 2011. Devorah Weiss, Staten Island Helper - Neediest Cases For emergencies, there is 911. For noise complaints, there is 311. For those in dire straits on Staten Island, there is Devorah Weiss, a social worker whose cellphone number is passed on as a last resort. The New York Times    John Otis Reporter  Hi, I’m John Otis. I’m a reporter at The New York Times and have written more than 100 stories for the Neediest Cases over the past five years.   Matthew Haag Staff Editor  And I am the editor of this year’s Neediest Cases campaign, the 105th in The Times’s history.   E EDP Reader, Mesa, AZ  Hello, I live in Queens and every day on my commute to work I pass a lot of people who are homeless or in need. I’d really like to do something to support the homeless population. I’m thinking of donating useful items to a shelter or handing them directly to the people I meet on my commute, but I’m not sure what the most helpful items are (in the past I have done things like hand out oranges or hygiene products) Do you have any advice on what items are helpful to donate and whether it is most helpful to give directly or to a shelter? Or is there another, better way to offer support that you’d recommend?   Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  I really sympathize with EDP’s quandary.  I live in Center City Philadelphia and pass many individuals on the street begging for help everyday.  My personal solution is to give the majority of my donations to  organizations that address causes and groups about which I am most concerned but to save some money for individuals who are in great pain.   Devorah Weiss Social worker on Staten Island  I agree with Toba’s response above.   Great to give both to an agency like Met Council and help a homeless person.  Often people on the street reject offers to be taken to a shelter and often present with mental health issues as well.   Matthew Haag Staff Editor  We have two questions coming in from readers who ask about getting children involved in giving back.   S Shomita Reader, New York, NY  I would love ideas on how to get my nieces and nephew involved in one on one volunteer opportunities (ages 7 and 10).  Just giving toys or coats away is still far removed from the issues others face.  Some volunteer places like soup kitchens don’t allow children so looking for ideas or maybe to even start my own volunteer organization   D Doug Reader, Durham, NC  What do you think is more impactful for kids, donating money, toys or food? or doing some kind of volunteer work?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  For your nieces and nephews Shomita, try the following if you can afford it: Get them a present or two, as you may have in the past. But maybe also give them a check with the “to” part empty and ask them to come up with a cause that they want to support. They fill in the “to” part and can report back to you on why they want to support that cause. You could also go and volunteer at that organization with them.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Doug, I don’t know of any studies that have examined one against the other. Giving money from an allowance or earnings is great, helping parents figure out how to divide their charitable pie is good and following up with work in the community is good too. All of those things will reinforce one another, especially if you establish deep ties to a particular cause or organization.   Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  There are centers for the distribution of clothing and food in most cities and towns.  In my experience, they will allow families to come in.  And, you know, right now there are folks standing on every street corner asking for money and food. Why not make up a dozen brown bag breakfasts or lunches and distribute them to people who are hungry. Have your children wish each person a better new year and give out the brown bags. Some people will ask about the contents and reject the offering, but those are important lessons as well.   Devorah Weiss Social worker on Staten Island  Also, when parents model giving, it makes a huge impact on their children of all ages as they grow and creates memories to recreate as adults.     Matthew Haag Staff Editor  Ron, I’ve received a question from a reader who is a recent college graduate and has federal student loans. Can someone offset their students loans by volunteering?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Matthew, depends on how you define volunteer. There is loan forgiveness available in certain amounts under some circumstances for people who enroll in the Peace Corps, VISTA or Americorps. The Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines are an option too. More ideas here: http://www.finaid.org/loans/forgiveness.phtml   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  This program is intriguing too… http://www.sponsorchange.org/?page_id=27   E Ellen Reader, Chester Springs, PA  How do churches and charity organizations usually find families who are in need in my area?   Devorah Weiss Social worker on Staten Island  Ellen, often churches, synagogues and other organizations refer needy clients to Met Council   John Otis Reporter  The organizations supported by the Neediest Cases fund give help to any who need it, regardless of any religious affiliation. A great example is a story I did a few years back featuring  UJA, a Jewish organization, helping an Eastern Orthodox priest fallen on hard times. There are also three Christian charities that regularly help those of other Christian faiths, or even those who aren’t very religious. H.I.V. Led to Stigmatization, Diabetes to the Loss of a Foot Peter Gromoff, an Eastern Orthodox priest, lost one of his feet, and part of the other, to complications from diabetes. The New York Times   Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  May I chime in, too?  In my experience, the word goes out on the street that a certain church or synagogue has a lot of coats to distribute or offers better places to sleep or a better meal.  Churches and synagogues often put up  signs saying what they can offer.  Also, the organizations trying to help new immigrants work refer clients to  churches ans synagogues.   S Susan Reader, New York, NY  I just this morning dropped off about $200 worth of toys to an organization for the homeless but feel ashamed to ask if they document for tax purposes. Would my receipts from the stores from which they were purchased along with an email copy telling me to bring them in be ok with IRS?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Susan, no reason to feel ashamed. Organizations are thrilled that people are tax-conscious, because the more they reach for deductions the more generous they are likely to be (since if they get those deductions, they can afford to give more). I don’t think that what you propose would offer enough documentation if you were ever audited, but it would depend on the IRS auditor. Still, many such organizations hand out a blank form and let you fill the amounts in yourself. Chances are a quick email to them will yield the form you need.   Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  You know, the organizations expect you to ask for documentation for the IRS.  Many have pre-printed receipts for you.    This is the way of the United States.   Matthew Haag Staff Editor  We have received several questions about how to find a reputable organization to support.   M Maria Reader, Albany, NY  How do you find a reputable organization in your community to donate to or support? I live in Albany and have gotten letters about donating to provide meals for homeless but when I Googled the organizations they had less than stellar reviews.   Devorah Weiss Social worker on Staten Island  Met Council will answer any questions a donor might have with great transparency.  It’s a reputable organization and in existence for many many years.  Thousands have been helped.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Maria, Guidestar is a good site to start at to do some research. The challenge here is that there isn’t a ton of agreement in the world of non-profits about how to define and measure success and impact. So while Guidestar and the like can help with accountability (are they legal? spending all their money on salaries?) they can’t help a ton on impact (who is getting the most results per charitable dollar). Organizations like United Way are trying to do more of this – and local community foundations can help too.   Toba Kerson Professor at Bryan Mawr College  You might call the Albany city office for helping the homeless or call a homeless shelter directly and ask how to make a donation.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  And here’s more information about Guidestar: https://learn.guidestar.org/about-us

There are centers for the distribution of clothing and food in most cities and towns. In my experience, they will allow families to come in. And, you know, right now there are folks standing on every street corner asking for money and food.

Why not make up a dozen brown bag breakfasts or lunches and distribute them to people who are hungry. Have your children wish each person a better new year and give out the brown bags.

Some people will ask about the contents and reject the offering, but those are important lessons as well.