Alex Morgan to Lyon: Latest Loan Transfer Details, Comments and Reaction
Alex Morgan to Lyon: Latest Loan Transfer Details, Comments and Reaction
I want to go to Lyon now just to see Alex Morgan play. Be interesting to see how Alex Morgan move affects #NWSL attendance. Red Star game v. Orlando was highest attendance of year in Chicago.

United States international Alex Morgan will join Lyon from Orlando Pride on loan until the end of the season, it was revealed on Tuesday.

Orlando confirmed the switch in a statement on their official website, and the woman herself revealed the motivating factors behind the decision.

"My decision to play for Lyon was not an easy one, but it is an important step in my evolution as a player,” the 27-year-old said.

She added: “I want to thank the Pride and our incredible fans and community for their continued support. I look forward to returning home this summer as a better player and leader to join my team-mates at our new stadium as we compete for a NWSL Championship.”

Sam Greenwood/Getty Images

The move will see Morgan join up with Lyon in 2017. The French outfit are rated as one of the finest sides in Europe and are expected to go far in the UEFA Champions League this term; they are the current domestic and European champions.

Should Morgan help Lyon to the final of the competition, it means her stint with Lyon could run until June 1.

BBC Sport’s Jamie Whitehead was very excited by the news that Morgan will be on her way to Europe for half a season:

I want to go to Lyon now just to see Alex Morgan play. — Jamie Whitehead (@jamiewh_) December 20, 2016

It’s an anticipation that’s understandable, as Morgan is rated as one of the very best strikers in the game.

The Californian was a key figure in the United States’ FIFA World Cup triumph in 2015; Morgan’s international record is remarkable, with 73 goals scored in a whopping 120 appearances.

After two years at Portland Thorns, Morgan made the switch to Orlando earlier in the year and finished her first year at the club with four goals in 15 appearances. John D. Halloran of American Soccer Now thinks her departure could have major implications for the National Women’s Soccer League:

Be interesting to see how Alex Morgan move affects #NWSL attendance. Red Star game v. Orlando was highest attendance of year in Chicago. — John D. Halloran (@JohnDHalloran) December 20, 2016

For Lyon, this acquisition is not only a coup but a vital addition to the squad. Indeed, Morgan will have huge boots to fill, after the recent departure of Lotta Schelin, who left the French club as an eight-time champion and their all-time record goalscorer in June.

Alongside the likes of Eugenie Le Sommer and Ada Hegerberg, Morgan will give Lyon a lot of firepower up top. It’ll be fascinating to see how they link up and how one of the greats of the game copes with this new challenge.