2 Flint Ex-Emergency Managers Charged Over Tainted Water
2 Flint Ex-Emergency Managers Charged Over Tainted Water
FLINT, Mich. — Michigan officials announced charges on Tuesday against two former emergency managers who were appointed by the state to oversee this financially troubled city, the latest criminal charges to grow out of a monthslong investigation into Flint’s tainted water. The emergency managers — Darnell Earley and Gerald Ambrose — were charged with false pretenses, conspiracy to commit false pretenses, misconduct in office and willful neglect of duty in office. Also charged with crimes on Tuesday were two former Flint workers, Howard Croft and Daugherty Johnson, who are accused of false pretenses and conspiracy to commit false pretenses. If convicted of all charges, Mr. Earley and Mr. Ambrose could face up to 46 years in prison, and Mr. Croft and Mr. Johnson could face up to 40 years in prison. Officials in Flint showed “a fixation on finances and balance sheets,” said Bill Schuette, the state’s attorney general. Advertisement “This fixation has cost lives,” he said. “This is all about numbers over people, money over health.” The charges against the emergency managers are likely to renew debate over Michigan’s practice of appointing such managers as a way to shore up cities that are teetering on the edge of fiscal disaster. There are systems of state-over-locality oversight in about 20 states, but Michigan’s system has drawn sharp criticism and was even the subject of a referendum calling for its repeal by voters in 2012. Flint Charges Filed by Mich. Attorney General Michigan's attorney general, Bill Schuette, on Tuesday announced felony charges against four people in the Flint water crisis.      Before Tuesday, nine people — including eight low- and midlevel state workers and an employee of Flint’s water plant — had been charged in the water contamination, which has been linked to the lead poisoning of Flint children and the deaths of 12 people from Legionnaires’ disease. The contamination here began after the city switched its water supply to the Flint River from Lake Huron in 2014 to save money. The City of Flint has struggled financially, and it was under the oversight of a state-appointed emergency manager when it made the decision to change water sources. Officials failed to properly treat the new water with chemicals that would prevent materials from corroding and leaching metals like lead, and as months passed, officials discounted or overlooked a growing body of evidence that something was wrong with the water, emails and testimony has suggested. For months, officials played down the reports of Flint residents, who said that their tap water had puzzling, murky colors and vile smells, and that they were feeling ill or suddenly suffering from rashes . Mr. Schuette opened an investigation into the water in January. Some residents have complained that it had not yet held the highest-level government officials accountable for what happened in this city, but Mr. Schuette, a Republican who is seen as a possible candidate for governor in 2018, has said all along that more charges were coming. This fall, there were growing signs that investigators were looking at bigger targets, and the focus appeared to turn more intensely to the cases of Legionnaires’ disease. The earlier charges were largely centered on lead contamination and claims that state and city workers failed to add appropriate chemicals to the water and then distorted test results to cover up the problem. Emails show that some officials were aware of a possible connection between a set of Legionnaires’ cases and the new water supply at least 10 months before Gov. Rick Snyder issued a warning to residents about it. State officials have defended their response, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Snyder said the governor told the public as soon as he learned of the possible link. State officials say the approach of using emergency managers efficiently cuts debts and restores financial stability in the most troubled cities. But residents of some majority-black Michigan cities, including Flint, argue that it disenfranchises voters, shifts control from mostly Democratic-held cities to the hands of Republican-held Lansing, and risks favoring financial discipline over public health. Advertisement Lead levels in Flint’s water have improved over the last year, officials say, as they have worked to solve the city’s problem. But residents are still being advised not to drink tap water unless they have a water filter. And many residents say they are uncomfortable drinking anything but bottled water anymore. Officials had told them the water was safe when it was not, they say, so why should they believe it is safe now? Monica Davey reported from Flint, and Mitch Smith from Monona, Wis. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.             Opinion

Photo

FLINT, Mich. — Michigan officials announced charges on Tuesday against two former emergency managers who were appointed by the state to oversee this financially troubled city, the latest criminal charges to grow out of a monthslong investigation into Flint’s tainted water.

The emergency managers — Darnell Earley and Gerald Ambrose — were charged with false pretenses, conspiracy to commit false pretenses, misconduct in office and willful neglect of duty in office. Also charged with crimes on Tuesday were two former Flint workers, Howard Croft and Daugherty Johnson, who are accused of false pretenses and conspiracy to commit false pretenses.

If convicted of all charges, Mr. Earley and Mr. Ambrose could face up to 46 years in prison, and Mr. Croft and Mr. Johnson could face up to 40 years in prison.

Officials in Flint showed “a fixation on finances and balance sheets,” said Bill Schuette, the state’s attorney general.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“This fixation has cost lives,” he said. “This is all about numbers over people, money over health.”

The charges against the emergency managers are likely to renew debate over Michigan’s practice of appointing such managers as a way to shore up cities that are teetering on the edge of fiscal disaster. There are systems of state-over-locality oversight in about 20 states, but Michigan’s system has drawn sharp criticism and was even the subject of a referendum calling for its repeal by voters in 2012.

Video

Before Tuesday, nine people — including eight low- and midlevel state workers and an employee of Flint’s water plant — had been charged in the water contamination, which has been linked to the lead poisoning of Flint children and the deaths of 12 people from Legionnaires’ disease.

The contamination here began after the city switched its water supply to the Flint River from Lake Huron in 2014 to save money. The City of Flint has struggled financially, and it was under the oversight of a state-appointed emergency manager when it made the decision to change water sources.

Officials failed to properly treat the new water with chemicals that would prevent materials from corroding and leaching metals like lead, and as months passed, officials discounted or overlooked a growing body of evidence that something was wrong with the water, emails and testimony has suggested. For months, officials played down the reports of Flint residents, who said that their tap water had puzzling, murky colors and vile smells, and that they were feeling ill or suddenly suffering from rashes.

Mr. Schuette opened an investigation into the water in January. Some residents have complained that it had not yet held the highest-level government officials accountable for what happened in this city, but Mr. Schuette, a Republican who is seen as a possible candidate for governor in 2018, has said all along that more charges were coming.

This fall, there were growing signs that investigators were looking at bigger targets, and the focus appeared to turn more intensely to the cases of Legionnaires’ disease. The earlier charges were largely centered on lead contamination and claims that state and city workers failed to add appropriate chemicals to the water and then distorted test results to cover up the problem.

Emails show that some officials were aware of a possible connection between a set of Legionnaires’ cases and the new water supply at least 10 months before Gov. Rick Snyder issued a warning to residents about it. State officials have defended their response, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Snyder said the governor told the public as soon as he learned of the possible link.

State officials say the approach of using emergency managers efficiently cuts debts and restores financial stability in the most troubled cities. But residents of some majority-black Michigan cities, including Flint, argue that it disenfranchises voters, shifts control from mostly Democratic-held cities to the hands of Republican-held Lansing, and risks favoring financial discipline over public health.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lead levels in Flint’s water have improved over the last year, officials say, as they have worked to solve the city’s problem. But residents are still being advised not to drink tap water unless they have a water filter. And many residents say they are uncomfortable drinking anything but bottled water anymore. Officials had told them the water was safe when it was not, they say, so why should they believe it is safe now?