Here's what Southern Rail passengers are saying about the strike on Twitter - 30,000 tweets analysed
Here's what Southern Rail passengers are saying about the strike on Twitter - 30,000 tweets analysed
lthough commuters are feeling especially annoyed with disruption on the railways at the moment, it isn’t a good time to be in charge of Southern’s Twitter account either. Three days of industrial action have stopped 300,000 passengers from getting to work , with more strike days slated for the end of the month and into the new year. Disgruntled travellers are taking to the internet in their droves to vent frustrations over the delays, cancellations and mismanagement. aving searched through 30,000 tweets, we found that commuters were not shy of using words such as "lie", "joke" and "resign", or insults such as "idiots", "poor" and "awful".  It was the expletives, however, which were truly eye-catching - with one in 20 tweets containing a swear word, and the word 'f***' featuring 468 times. y searching the hashtags #SouthernFail and #SouthernStrike, we built a database of thousands of tweets in order to understand the emotional state people were in while they shared with the internet. The analysis showed that more than a quarter of emotional language used could be described as angry , with nearly a fifth of all words tweeted falling into the ‘fear’ category and 12 per cent filing under ‘disgust.’ ess than eight per cent of language associated with an emotion hinted at ‘surprise’, however - indicating that commuters had not come to expect much from the railway line. The majority of tweets were sent during the morning rush hour of the 13 December. While Victoria station looked uncharacteristically quiet, commuters were on the internet instead. When a bad joke is repeated so many times it becomes more funny, think this is what @SouthernRailUK are doing with their announcements Refusing to have my busy day in London ruined by the total joke that is @SouthernRailUK . 'Southern are sorry for the delay to your journey' is he biggest lie since Father Christmas

Although commuters are feeling especially annoyed with disruption on the railways at the moment, it isn’t a good time to be in charge of Southern’s Twitter account either.

Three days of industrial action have stopped 300,000 passengers from getting to work, with more strike days slated for the end of the month and into the new year.

Disgruntled travellers are taking to the internet in their droves to vent frustrations over the delays, cancellations and mismanagement.