Berlin attack: Brexit figurehead Arron Banks suggests Angela Merkel 'might as well have' driven lorry herself
Berlin attack: Brexit figurehead Arron Banks suggests Angela Merkel 'might as well have' driven lorry herself
Arron Banks , the biggest financial donor to the Leave campaign, has suggested the German Chancellor Angela Merkel "might as well have" driven the lorry used in the Berlin market attack because of her policy on accepting refugees. The prominent Ukip funder said he was “fed up with diplomacy” on Twitter and defended the party's former leader Nigel Farage after he suggested the widower of murdered Labour MP Jo Cox supported extremism. He wrote: “Farage rightly pointed out that terrorists would flood in with so-called refugees. He was right as in so many other things.   Nigel Farage has saved Austria from the grips of the far right “I blame unlimited immigration without integration and the soft liberals like yourself that don't have the courage to call it what it is.” His use of the word "flood" prompted comparisons to Enoch Powell's Rivers of Blood speech. "Merkel did not drive the lorry," added one response. The insurance tycoon, who invested £7.5 million into the successful Brexit campaign, replied: "She might as well have." She might as well have https://t.co/qYQkwJti1h You may think everything is ok Tim but we are not in Kansas now Toto. Merkel let in millions & the whirlwind is being reaped. https://t.co/RUyx90t2IN Mr Farage was criticised by Brendan Cox, the husband of murdered MP Jo Cox , for “blaming politicians for the actions of extremists” by claiming the lorry attack, which killed 12 and injured dozens more was “no surprise” and would form part of Ms Merkel’s legacy. “Of course, he would know more about extremists than me, Mr Cox. He backs organisations like Hope Not Hate, who masquerade as being lovely and peaceful, but actually pursue violent and undemocratic means,” Mr Farage told LBC radio. Hope Not Hate said it was consulting with its legal team over Mr Farage’s “serious and potentially libellous statement”. Berlin Christmas market lorry attack               Berlin Christmas market lorry attack       Several people have been killed after a lorry drove into crowds at a Christmas market in Berlin   REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch        'At least nine' people have been killed and more than 50 injured.   AP        Emergency Services rush a Berlin market victim to an ambulance   Associated Press        Police cordoned off the square at Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church following the incident   REUTERS        Rescue workers inspect the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market close to the Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church in Berlin   EPA        Emergency crews inspect the lorry that ploughed into a Berlin Christmas market, killing at least nine people   AFP        Fire crews attend the scene of the attack   AFP/Getty        Armed police secure the site of a lorry attack at a Christmas market in Berlin   REUTERS        Crushed debris is visible beneath the wheels of the vehicle   REUTERS        An injured man is pushed to an ambulance   REUTERS        Medics attend an injured person after the lorry attack which killed at least nine and injured more than 50 people   AFP/Getty        Firefighters examine the lorry which was rammed into a Berlin Christmas market   REUTERS        A person is carried into an ambulance   REUTERS        View of the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring at least 50 people   AFP/Getty        Rescue workers push a person on a stretcher to an ambulance   Getty        Firefighters assess the damage after the lorry rammed the Christmas market, killing 'at least nine', and injuring more than 50 people   AP        Firefighters stand beside a toppled Christmas tree at the site of the suspected terrorist attack in a Berlin Christmas market   AP        Damaged stalls at the scene of the incident at a Berlin Christmas market where at least nine people have been killed   EPA  “We have no idea on what Mr Farage bases his outrageous comments," a spokesperson said. "Hope not hate has a proud history of campaigning against extremism and hatred. “We will not be making any further comment until we have had the opportunity to consult with our lawyers.”  More about: Aaron Banks Angela Merkel Berlin Christmas market attack Comments

Arron Banks, the biggest financial donor to the Leave campaign, has suggested the German Chancellor Angela Merkel "might as well have" driven the lorry used in the Berlin market attack because of her policy on accepting refugees.

The prominent Ukip funder said he was “fed up with diplomacy” on Twitter and defended the party's former leader Nigel Farage after he suggested the widower of murdered Labour MP Jo Cox supported extremism.

He wrote: “Farage rightly pointed out that terrorists would flood in with so-called refugees. He was right as in so many other things.

“I blame unlimited immigration without integration and the soft liberals like yourself that don't have the courage to call it what it is.”

His use of the word "flood" prompted comparisons to Enoch Powell's Rivers of Blood speech. "Merkel did not drive the lorry," added one response.

The insurance tycoon, who invested £7.5 million into the successful Brexit campaign, replied: "She might as well have."

She might as well have https://t.co/qYQkwJti1h — Arron Banks (@Arron_banks) December 20, 2016

You may think everything is ok Tim but we are not in Kansas now Toto. Merkel let in millions & the whirlwind is being reaped. https://t.co/RUyx90t2IN — Arron Banks (@Arron_banks) December 20, 2016

Mr Farage was criticised by Brendan Cox, the husband of murdered MP Jo Cox, for “blaming politicians for the actions of extremists” by claiming the lorry attack, which killed 12 and injured dozens more was “no surprise” and would form part of Ms Merkel’s legacy.

“Of course, he would know more about extremists than me, Mr Cox. He backs organisations like Hope Not Hate, who masquerade as being lovely and peaceful, but actually pursue violent and undemocratic means,” Mr Farage told LBC radio.

Hope Not Hate said it was consulting with its legal team over Mr Farage’s “serious and potentially libellous statement”.

Berlin Christmas market lorry attack







18 show all Berlin Christmas market lorry attack

































1/18 Several people have been killed after a lorry drove into crowds at a Christmas market in Berlin REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch

2/18 'At least nine' people have been killed and more than 50 injured. AP

3/18 Emergency Services rush a Berlin market victim to an ambulance Associated Press

4/18 Police cordoned off the square at Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church following the incident REUTERS

5/18 Rescue workers inspect the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market close to the Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church in Berlin EPA

6/18 Emergency crews inspect the lorry that ploughed into a Berlin Christmas market, killing at least nine people AFP

7/18 Fire crews attend the scene of the attack AFP/Getty

8/18 Armed police secure the site of a lorry attack at a Christmas market in Berlin REUTERS

9/18 Crushed debris is visible beneath the wheels of the vehicle REUTERS

10/18 An injured man is pushed to an ambulance REUTERS

11/18 Medics attend an injured person after the lorry attack which killed at least nine and injured more than 50 people AFP/Getty

12/18 Firefighters examine the lorry which was rammed into a Berlin Christmas market REUTERS

13/18 A person is carried into an ambulance REUTERS

14/18 View of the lorry that crashed into a Christmas market in Berlin, killing at least nine and injuring at least 50 people AFP/Getty

15/18 Rescue workers push a person on a stretcher to an ambulance Getty

16/18 Firefighters assess the damage after the lorry rammed the Christmas market, killing 'at least nine', and injuring more than 50 people AP

17/18 Firefighters stand beside a toppled Christmas tree at the site of the suspected terrorist attack in a Berlin Christmas market AP

18/18 Damaged stalls at the scene of the incident at a Berlin Christmas market where at least nine people have been killed EPA

“We have no idea on what Mr Farage bases his outrageous comments," a spokesperson said. "Hope not hate has a proud history of campaigning against extremism and hatred.

“We will not be making any further comment until we have had the opportunity to consult with our lawyers.”