Modiji's Gujarat Runs Out Of Patience, Customers Attack Banks And Staff In Incidents Across State
Modiji's Gujarat Runs Out Of Patience, Customers Attack Banks, Staff In Incidents Across State
Modiji's Gujarat Runs Out Of Patience, Customers Attack Banks And Staff In Incidents Across State People furious over lack of cash in banks on Monday attacked bank branches in two districts of Gujarat, the authorities said. A mob locked up the State Bank of India and Dena Bank branches in Samadhiyala village in Amreli district in Saurashtra region after hundreds waiting in long queues were told the banks had no cash to give. Most of the people were farmers, witnesses said. In Surendranagar district, mobs attacked some bank branches and damaged their doors and windows after they were found to have been kept closed for the third consecutive day since Saturday. The bank authorities said there was no meaning of opening the branches as no cash had reached the branches on Monday. In Silvassa, capital of the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the manager and some staff members of a nationalized bank were roughed up by people as the bank had no cash to distribute. The police had to intervene to rescue the bank staff.

People furious over lack of cash in banks on Monday attacked bank branches in two districts of Gujarat, the authorities said. A mob locked up the State Bank of India and Dena Bank branches in Samadhiyala village in Amreli district in Saurashtra region after hundreds waiting in long queues were told the banks had no cash to give.

BCCL

Most of the people were farmers, witnesses said. In Surendranagar district, mobs attacked some bank branches and damaged their doors and windows after they were found to have been kept closed for the third consecutive day since Saturday.

The bank authorities said there was no meaning of opening the branches as no cash had reached the branches on Monday. In Silvassa, capital of the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the manager and some staff members of a nationalized bank were roughed up by people as the bank had no cash to distribute.

BCCL

The police had to intervene to rescue the bank staff.

Agency inputs