Does Carlos Slim And Donald Trump's "Cordial" Dinner Signal A Role For The Mexican Tycoon?
Does Carlos Slim And Donald Trump's "Cordial" Dinner Signal A Role For The Mexican Tycoon?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Dolia Estevez       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helú and Donald Trump appear to have left behind their mutual animosity. Slim and Trump dined privately at Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s estate in Palm Beach, Florida, on Saturday, in what the President-elect described as “a lovely dinner with a wonderful man,”  first reported . Arturo Elías Ayub, Slim's spokesperson and son-in-law, confirmed the dinner via email and said that Trump had invited Slim to the dinner. "U.S. President-elect Trump @realDonaldTrump was kind enough to invite Ing. Carlos Slim to a very cordial dinner, with a very good vibe for Mexico," Elías Ayub Tweeted in Spanish on Monday. Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim said if Donald Trump achieves his promises to expand the U.S. economy,  it will be "fantastic" for Mexico. (AP Photo/Marco Ugarte) Elías Ayub did not respond when asked if they had discussed Trump's proposal to build a border wall and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). said that the dinner was designed to open a friendly line of communication rather than delve into policy details. The meeting is a remarkable turn of events for two people who spent a good part of the past year and half exchanging harsh words. In the closing days of his campaign, Trump vilified Slim, the world's sixth richest person , as part of a globalist cabal conspiring to undermine his candidacy. Slim responded by saying Trump's policies would "destroy" the American economy. It's too early to know if the get-together signals the beginning of Trump softening his posture toward Mexico and whether Slim could play a back-channel role, or if it simply indicates that billionaires enjoy dining with other billionaires. "If Slim and Trump have something in common–-beyond a lifelong interest in real estate--it’s that neither of them hold grudges. I don’t expect Slim to build a Trump Hotel in Mexico City, but he could certainly operate as a kind of ambassador, smoothing relations with Washington," Andrew Paxman, a business historian and Slim watcher at the Mexican think tank Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas (CIDE), told me. Paxman recalled that Slim played a similar role before, when the administration of President Ernesto Zedillo asked him to help calm Wall Street after the peso crash of 1994. "Slim has charm, and that’s a currency Mexico needs right now after 18 months of understandable Trump-bashing on this side of the border," he said. Saturday was the first time both men had met face to face. Last month, when Trump accused Slim of trying to help Hillary Clinton win the election by influencing unfavorable coverage in where Slim is a shareholder, the telecom tycoon said : "I don't even know Trump." Slim told Bloomberg TV on December 1st he didn't think a Trump presidency would be bad for Mexico, as many believe. Slim praised Trump's massive infrastructure investments plan and said that, if implemented, it would generate growth in the U.S. and that would be "very good for Mexico." peacemaking gesture," as called it, had been in the works for some weeks, with back-channel negotiations that included a secret visit to Mexico City by Corey Lewandowski, a former Trump campaign manager who remains a confidant of the President-elect. Lewandowski met with Slim and  Carlos Slim Domit, Slim's oldest son and Chairman of the Board of Grupo Carso, on December 9. Elías Ayub confirmed the meeting had taken place. Trump's Twitteer: @DoliaEstevez    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helú and Donald Trump appear to have left behind their mutual animosity. Slim and Trump dined privately at Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s estate in Palm Beach, Florida, on Saturday, in what the President-elect described as “a lovely dinner with a wonderful man,” The Washington Post first reported.

Arturo Elías Ayub, Slim's spokesperson and son-in-law, confirmed the dinner via email and said that Trump had invited Slim to the dinner. "U.S. President-elect Trump @realDonaldTrump was kind enough to invite Ing. Carlos Slim to a very cordial dinner, with a very good vibe for Mexico," Elías Ayub Tweeted in Spanish on Monday.

Elías Ayub did not respond when asked if they had discussed Trump's proposal to build a border wall and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The Post said that the dinner was designed to open a friendly line of communication rather than delve into policy details.

The meeting is a remarkable turn of events for two people who spent a good part of the past year and half exchanging harsh words. In the closing days of his campaign, Trump vilified Slim, the world's sixth richest person, as part of a globalist cabal conspiring to undermine his candidacy. Slim responded by saying Trump's policies would "destroy" the American economy.

It's too early to know if the get-together signals the beginning of Trump softening his posture toward Mexico and whether Slim could play a back-channel role, or if it simply indicates that billionaires enjoy dining with other billionaires.

"If Slim and Trump have something in common–-beyond a lifelong interest in real estate--it’s that neither of them hold grudges. I don’t expect Slim to build a Trump Hotel in Mexico City, but he could certainly operate as a kind of ambassador, smoothing relations with Washington," Andrew Paxman, a business historian and Slim watcher at the Mexican think tank Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas (CIDE), told me.

Paxman recalled that Slim played a similar role before, when the administration of President Ernesto Zedillo asked him to help calm Wall Street after the peso crash of 1994. "Slim has charm, and that’s a currency Mexico needs right now after 18 months of understandable Trump-bashing on this side of the border," he said.

Saturday was the first time both men had met face to face. Last month, when Trump accused Slim of trying to help Hillary Clinton win the election by influencing unfavorable coverage in The New York Times, where Slim is a shareholder, the telecom tycoon said: "I don't even know Trump."

But soon after Trump's upset victory in November, Slim extended Trump what appeared to be an olive branch. Slim told Bloomberg TV on December 1st he didn't think a Trump presidency would be bad for Mexico, as many believe. Slim praised Trump's massive infrastructure investments plan and said that, if implemented, it would generate growth in the U.S. and that would be "very good for Mexico."

Saturday's "peacemaking gesture," as The Washington Post called it, had been in the works for some weeks, with back-channel negotiations that included a secret visit to Mexico City by Corey Lewandowski, a former Trump campaign manager who remains a confidant of the President-elect. Lewandowski met with Slim and Carlos Slim Domit, Slim's oldest son and Chairman of the Board of Grupo Carso, on December 9. Elías Ayub confirmed the meeting had taken place.

FORBES calculates that Carlos Slim has an estimated net worth of $48.9 billion.

Slim has investments in the U.S., including real estate. His telecom firm América Móvil trades as an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) on the New York Stock Exchange. He was the world's biggest billionaire loser following Trump's win in November, FORBES data showed, as the peso tumbled in value and the stock price of America Movil fell. His fortune has rebounded since then.

Twitteer: @DoliaEstevez