Fifth Harmony issue second statement after Camila Cabello says she was 'shocked' at claims about her departure
Fifth Harmony issue second statement after Camila Cabello says she was 'shocked' at claims about her departure
Fifth Harmony have released a second statement after Camila Cabello claimed she was "shocked" at their original message to fans about her departure. Following their rather frosty announcement revealing that they had been told via representatives of Cabello that she was leaving the group, the singer posted her own statement on her social media accounts which claimed that the others were "aware" of her feelings about the band's future. "Saying that they were just informed through my representatives that I was 'leaving the group' is simply not true," Cabello wrote. "Just like the other girls said in their statement about their plans, I had also planned to continue with my own solo endeavours in the New Year but I did not intend to end things with Fifth Harmony this way. Read more Fifth Harmony's statement on Camila Cabello’s departure was ice-cold Fifth Harmony star comes out as bisexual in letter to Trump supporters Normani Kordei takes break from Twitter after racist abuse "As sad as it is to see this chapter ending this way, I will continue to root them all on as individuals and as a group, I wish nothing but the best for them, all the success in the world and true happiness." reports that Cabello's final Fifth Harmony performance at Jingle Ball coincided with the final day of her contract with the band, although her representatives have not confirmed this. The remaining members of Fifth Harmony were quick to respond to Cabello's claim with a second statement on her departure, which said that "over the past several months, we have consistently made every effort to sit down and discuss the future of Fifth Harmony with Camila. pic.twitter.com/SOrXxQnXr9 "We have tried with exhausted efforts and hearts to keep this group alive as the five of us, and we want it to be very clear that unfortunately those efforts were not mutual. "We truly support anyone's decision to do what makes them happy and to that end we do wish Camila all the best although saddened by the way she and her team handled the situation." Normani Kordei, Dinah Hansen, Lauren Jauregui and Ally Brooke confirmed that they would continue to make music as Fifth Harmony. More about: Fifth Harmony Camila Cabello Comments

Fifth Harmony have released a second statement after Camila Cabello claimed she was "shocked" at their original message to fans about her departure.

Following their rather frosty announcement revealing that they had been told via representatives of Cabello that she was leaving the group, the singer posted her own statement on her social media accounts which claimed that the others were "aware" of her feelings about the band's future.

"Saying that they were just informed through my representatives that I was 'leaving the group' is simply not true," Cabello wrote.

Camila Cabello of Fifth Harmony (Getty)

"Just like the other girls said in their statement about their plans, I had also planned to continue with my own solo endeavours in the New Year but I did not intend to end things with Fifth Harmony this way.

"As sad as it is to see this chapter ending this way, I will continue to root them all on as individuals and as a group, I wish nothing but the best for them, all the success in the world and true happiness."

Billboard reports that Cabello's final Fifth Harmony performance at Jingle Ball coincided with the final day of her contract with the band, although her representatives have not confirmed this.

The remaining members of Fifth Harmony were quick to respond to Cabello's claim with a second statement on her departure, which said that "over the past several months, we have consistently made every effort to sit down and discuss the future of Fifth Harmony with Camila.

"We have tried with exhausted efforts and hearts to keep this group alive as the five of us, and we want it to be very clear that unfortunately those efforts were not mutual.

"We truly support anyone's decision to do what makes them happy and to that end we do wish Camila all the best although saddened by the way she and her team handled the situation."

Normani Kordei, Dinah Hansen, Lauren Jauregui and Ally Brooke confirmed that they would continue to make music as Fifth Harmony.