Best Christmas movies on Netflix, including Die Hard and Home Alone
Best Christmas movies on Netflix, including Die Hard and Home Alone
Another year, another Christmas draws near. But what festive treats will be available to watch on Netflix? Look no further, as we have the best films available to watch this Christmas on the streaming service. Starring Bill Murray, George Clooney, Miley Cyrus, Amy Poehler, Michael Cera, among many more stars, the Netflix-original musical comedy is one of the better modern Christmas specials. Over the years, there have been dozens of adaptations of Charles Dickens' , Rowan Atkinson’s scrooge is definitely one of the funniest. If you’d perhaps rather suffer an existential crisis concerning your newly opened mobile phone, the Christmas special is for you. The Christmas film to end all Christmas films, Bruce Willis stars as NYPD Detective John McClane in this high thrills, no spills action flick. Very few Christmas films are as funny as , the Macaulay Culkin classic that sees a young boy defending his home from pesky burglars. Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016               Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016    House of Cards - Season Four - 4 March   Last time we were in Frank Underwood’s White House things weren’t looking to great for the President, his first Lady having just walked out on him. What will happen next in the critically acclaimed show is anyone’s guess.   Netflix     Daredevil - Season Two - 18 March   Back in Hell’s Kitchen things were seemingly getting better. Kingpin is in prison and the crime syndicates should have dispersed - for the meantime at least. Unfortunately for Matt Murdoch, there’s a new anti-hero in town: The Punisher.      Flaked - 11 March   According to Netflix, Flaked is set in the insular world of Venice, California. It follows the “serio-comic story of a self-appointed 'guru' who falls for the object of his best friend’s fascination. Soon the tangled web of half-truths and semi-b******* that underpins his all-important image and sobriety begins to unravel. Arnett plays Chip, a man doing his honest best to stay one step ahead of his own lies.   Netflix     Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt - Season Two - 15 April   Following the story of 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt on her journey through New York, season two is set to start right where the last left us. The Tina Fey created sitcom has already been renewed for a third season, so you know this one has to be good.      The Ranch - 1 April   A comedy starring Ashton Kutcher. Based on a failed semi-pro footballer who returns home to a Colorado ranch. It also has some of the producers from Two and a Half Men behind it, which just happens to be one of the most successful shows of all time.      Marseille - 5 May   Netflix’s first French language original is a tale of ‘power, corruption and redemption’. Sounding like it could very well be the next Narcos.      Grace and Frankie - Season Two - 6 May   The tale of a retired cosmetics mogul and a hippie art teacher living together was a hit across the world, especially in the US. Starring Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, the show has already been renewed for a third season.      Orange is the New Black - Season Four - 17 June   Another Netflix powerhouse, Orange is the New Black will see us returning to Litchfield Penitentiary. Prepare for more Piper, Alex and Red come June.      Stranger Things - 15 July   Eight-episode series starring Winona Ryder that follows a small community as they look for a young boy who has seemingly vanished. It all sounds quite scary.      The Get Down - August 12th   "Told through the lives and music of a ragtag crew of South Bronx teens, The Get Down is a mythic saga of the transformation of 1970s New York City.” Directed by Baz Luhrmann, this is sure to be as stylish as anything he’s done before.      The Crown - Spring   Starring Doctor Who actor Matt Smith, the period drama ”reveals the political rivalries and romance behind Queen Elizabeth II's reign and the events that shaped the 2nd half of the 20th century."      Luke Cage - Fall 2016   First appearing alongside Jessica Jones in her Netflix series, Luke Cage will pic up the pieces, seeing Cage come to terms with his super-strength and impenetrable skin. It is unknown whether Kathryn.      Narcos - Season 2 - Fall 2016   It’s back. The Netflix series hyped to match Breaking Bad was an astounding success around the world, apparently watched more than Game of Thrones. We’ll find out what happens to Pablo Escabar now he doesn’t have the protection of all his men.   Netflix Inc.     A Series of Unfortunate Events - Fall 2016   Netflix is set to revisit the much-loved children’s novel, putting Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf in a show that looks so much creepier than the 2004 film. Not much else is known - i.e. casting - but Lemony Snicket is on board as executive producer, so get excited.   Two rival fathers fight it out for the last Turbo-Man action figure, playing off the infamous last minute rush for Buzz Lightyear figures in 1995. Of course, the film will always be remembered for Arnold Schwarzenegger’s hilarious outing as Howard. Another Bill Murray flick and another adaptation of . , though, is an absolute Christmas classic, and one to be enjoyed by all. More about: Home Alone Die Hard Netflix Comments

Another year, another Christmas draws near. But what festive treats will be available to watch on Netflix?

Look no further, as we have the best films available to watch this Christmas on the streaming service.

A Very Murray Christmas

Bill Murray in 'A Very Murray Christmas' (Netflix)

Starring Bill Murray, George Clooney, Miley Cyrus, Amy Poehler, Michael Cera, among many more stars, the Netflix-original musical comedy is one of the better modern Christmas specials.

Black Adder’s A Christmas Carol

Over the years, there have been dozens of adaptations of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol, Rowan Atkinson’s scrooge is definitely one of the funniest.

Black Mirror: White Christmas

If you’d perhaps rather suffer an existential crisis concerning your newly opened mobile phone, the Black Mirror Christmas special is for you.

Die Hard

The Christmas film to end all Christmas films, Bruce Willis stars as NYPD Detective John McClane in this high thrills, no spills action flick.

Home Alone

Very few Christmas films are as funny as Home Alone, the Macaulay Culkin classic that sees a young boy defending his home from pesky burglars.

Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016







14 show all Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016

























1/14 House of Cards - Season Four - 4 March Last time we were in Frank Underwood’s White House things weren’t looking to great for the President, his first Lady having just walked out on him. What will happen next in the critically acclaimed show is anyone’s guess. Netflix

2/14 Daredevil - Season Two - 18 March Back in Hell’s Kitchen things were seemingly getting better. Kingpin is in prison and the crime syndicates should have dispersed - for the meantime at least. Unfortunately for Matt Murdoch, there’s a new anti-hero in town: The Punisher.

3/14 Flaked - 11 March According to Netflix, Flaked is set in the insular world of Venice, California. It follows the “serio-comic story of a self-appointed 'guru' who falls for the object of his best friend’s fascination. Soon the tangled web of half-truths and semi-b******* that underpins his all-important image and sobriety begins to unravel. Arnett plays Chip, a man doing his honest best to stay one step ahead of his own lies. Netflix

4/14 Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt - Season Two - 15 April Following the story of 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt on her journey through New York, season two is set to start right where the last left us. The Tina Fey created sitcom has already been renewed for a third season, so you know this one has to be good.

5/14 The Ranch - 1 April A comedy starring Ashton Kutcher. Based on a failed semi-pro footballer who returns home to a Colorado ranch. It also has some of the producers from Two and a Half Men behind it, which just happens to be one of the most successful shows of all time.

6/14 Marseille - 5 May Netflix’s first French language original is a tale of ‘power, corruption and redemption’. Sounding like it could very well be the next Narcos.

7/14 Grace and Frankie - Season Two - 6 May The tale of a retired cosmetics mogul and a hippie art teacher living together was a hit across the world, especially in the US. Starring Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, the show has already been renewed for a third season.

8/14 Orange is the New Black - Season Four - 17 June Another Netflix powerhouse, Orange is the New Black will see us returning to Litchfield Penitentiary. Prepare for more Piper, Alex and Red come June.

9/14 Stranger Things - 15 July Eight-episode series starring Winona Ryder that follows a small community as they look for a young boy who has seemingly vanished. It all sounds quite scary.

10/14 The Get Down - August 12th "Told through the lives and music of a ragtag crew of South Bronx teens, The Get Down is a mythic saga of the transformation of 1970s New York City.” Directed by Baz Luhrmann, this is sure to be as stylish as anything he’s done before.

11/14 The Crown - Spring Starring Doctor Who actor Matt Smith, the period drama ”reveals the political rivalries and romance behind Queen Elizabeth II's reign and the events that shaped the 2nd half of the 20th century."

12/14 Luke Cage - Fall 2016 First appearing alongside Jessica Jones in her Netflix series, Luke Cage will pic up the pieces, seeing Cage come to terms with his super-strength and impenetrable skin. It is unknown whether Kathryn.

13/14 Narcos - Season 2 - Fall 2016 It’s back. The Netflix series hyped to match Breaking Bad was an astounding success around the world, apparently watched more than Game of Thrones. We’ll find out what happens to Pablo Escabar now he doesn’t have the protection of all his men. Netflix Inc.

14/14 A Series of Unfortunate Events - Fall 2016 Netflix is set to revisit the much-loved children’s novel, putting Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf in a show that looks so much creepier than the 2004 film. Not much else is known - i.e. casting - but Lemony Snicket is on board as executive producer, so get excited.

Jingle All the Way

Two rival fathers fight it out for the last Turbo-Man action figure, playing off the infamous last minute rush for Buzz Lightyear figures in 1995. Of course, the film will always be remembered for Arnold Schwarzenegger’s hilarious outing as Howard.

Scrooged

Another Bill Murray flick and another adaptation of A Christmas Carol. Scrooged, though, is an absolute Christmas classic, and one to be enjoyed by all.