NFL to expand fan access at combine, opens registration for free tickets
Raise the bar: NFL lets fans experience combine
Raise the bar: NFL lets fans experience combine How Dallas built a 1,586-pound MVP Witness: Hernandez shooter in double slaying Bengals' Eifert: Pro Bowl 'not worth' the risk Hurt Seahawks safety Thomas torn on retirement Eagles' Johnson: 'Let the team down' with ban Rodgers 'to be closer to 100 percent' vs. Vikes Rivera being cautious, despite Kuechly's wishes Non-call on Cam Newton hit isn't as obvious as it appears Cowboys, Patriots duking it out in Week 16 Power Rankings 1 Related Lions fall to 24th in latest Vegas NFL power ranks What we learned (and didn't learn) in Week 15: Osweiler's future unknown Uni Watch: Logo, we have a problem Weight of Super Bowl XLIX loss 'not going away' for Seahawks Don't be that team: Chargers look to fend off winless Browns How Ryan Shazier and Steelers' D reclaimed their nasty The great NFL lessons of 2016 (so far) NFL playoff picture: Patriots, Raiders punch their tickets The Big Story for every NFL team Ravens' John Harbaugh blasts 'all-time worst call ever' Untold story from Patriots' win: Marcus Cannon's revenge on Von Miller Best and worst QBs of Week 15: Matt Ryan leads the way Free-agent finds for Week 16 AFC East title makes joyous Martellus Bennett forget his past Get ready for a Lil Wayne album (or child) named after Ty Montgomery Emmanuel Sanders reacts to shutdown talk on Twitter Adrian Peterson has little room to run in return Reports: Browns' Pryor planning to play hurt Projected 2017 NFL draft order: Panthers no longer in top 10 To reclaim winning culture, 49ers need significant change Going for two, and the win, becoming more popular among NFL coaches Lots of fun as Ezekiel Elliott goes about his work for Cowboys 2 Related Jerry: Salvation Army should give Elliott an award Ezekiel Elliott shouldn'€™t have been penalized for Salvation Army celebration Dak Prescott rebounds against Bucs, quiets critics Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com's sports business reporter since 2012; previously at ESPN from 2000-06 Appears on SportsCenter, ESPN Radio, ESPN.com and with ABC News Formerly worked as analyst at CNBC Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The NFL is expanding access for fans at its scouting combine, letting them witness the bench press up close, watch media interviews and even allowing them to try their hand at running the 40-yard dash. The league opened the application process for free tickets to the event on its Fan Mobile Pass app and on NFL.com on Tuesday morning. A total of 6,000 non-transferable tickets will be handed out for the combine, which takes place March 2-5 at Lucas Oil Stadium and the Indiana Convention Center in Indianapolis. It's part of the league's larger goal to make more out of its out-of-season events. "We wanted to continue to allow for fans to get closer to the game when there's so much hope during the offseason," said NFL senior vice president of events Peter O'Reilly. Fans can watch the players perform for NFL personnel from the Lucas Oil Stadium stands or interact with them at the Convention Center, where players will be interviewed by the media and participate in autograph sessions. At the Convention Center, fans can head to an area dubbed "The Combine Corner," where they will be able to run the 40 and perform other combine drills, including the vertical and broad jump. Other attractions will include an obstacle course where fans can show off their skills against tackling dummies and "The Gauntlet," where they can take on a barrage of passes thrown from a machine. Fans who take part in the events will have to sign waivers that indemnify the league should a fan suffer an injury. For those less inclined to get physical, there's the NFL draft set, where fans can pretend they were just drafted and take a picture behind the podium wearing their team's jersey. When brainstorming which event fans could get really close to, league executives decided the bench press, in which a player lifts 225 pounds as many times as he can, to be the best fit. "The fans will be right there, cheering and chanting for the players," O'Reilly said. The NFL combine, as a business, has steadily grown over the years. It was held behind closed doors until the NFL Network started broadcasting the event in 2004. Last year, the league brought in 1,500 fans to witness the event at Lucas Oil Stadium. In April, the league brought the draft on the road to Chicago and built a huge outside space with team hubs in Grant Park, attracting more than 200,000 fans. Fans who compete in the drills are just doing it for fun, but what happens if one runs an impressive 40? Said O'Reilly: "I guess the scouts and GMs will be close by." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The NFL is expanding access for fans at its scouting combine, letting them witness the bench press up close, watch media interviews and even allowing them to try their hand at running the 40-yard dash.

The league opened the application process for free tickets to the event on its Fan Mobile Pass app and on NFL.com on Tuesday morning. A total of 6,000 non-transferable tickets will be handed out for the combine, which takes place March 2-5 at Lucas Oil Stadium and the Indiana Convention Center in Indianapolis.

It's part of the league's larger goal to make more out of its out-of-season events.

"We wanted to continue to allow for fans to get closer to the game when there's so much hope during the offseason," said NFL senior vice president of events Peter O'Reilly.

Once a closed-door event, the NFL will hand out 6,000 free tickets to the 2017 scouting combine in Indianapolis. Fans will be able to watch the bench press, run the 40-yard dash and participate in other attractions. Joe Robbins/Getty Images

Fans can watch the players perform for NFL personnel from the Lucas Oil Stadium stands or interact with them at the Convention Center, where players will be interviewed by the media and participate in autograph sessions.

At the Convention Center, fans can head to an area dubbed "The Combine Corner," where they will be able to run the 40 and perform other combine drills, including the vertical and broad jump. Other attractions will include an obstacle course where fans can show off their skills against tackling dummies and "The Gauntlet," where they can take on a barrage of passes thrown from a machine. Fans who take part in the events will have to sign waivers that indemnify the league should a fan suffer an injury.

For those less inclined to get physical, there's the NFL draft set, where fans can pretend they were just drafted and take a picture behind the podium wearing their team's jersey.

When brainstorming which event fans could get really close to, league executives decided the bench press, in which a player lifts 225 pounds as many times as he can, to be the best fit.

"The fans will be right there, cheering and chanting for the players," O'Reilly said.

The NFL combine, as a business, has steadily grown over the years. It was held behind closed doors until the NFL Network started broadcasting the event in 2004. Last year, the league brought in 1,500 fans to witness the event at Lucas Oil Stadium.

In April, the league brought the draft on the road to Chicago and built a huge outside space with team hubs in Grant Park, attracting more than 200,000 fans.

Fans who compete in the drills are just doing it for fun, but what happens if one runs an impressive 40?

Said O'Reilly: "I guess the scouts and GMs will be close by."