Samantha Bee and Glenn Beck discover they might have something in common
Samantha Bee and Glenn Beck discover they might have something in common
"My audience wants to kill me for normalizing a lunatic like yourself," Samantha Bee said to Glenn Beck as they sat down for an interview while wearing ugly Christmas sweaters. SEE ALSO: Samantha Bee has the perfect response to Ohio's anti-abortion 'heartbeat' bill "As a guy who's done damage, I don't want to do any more damage," Beck said to a skeptical Bee. Beck acknowledged his role in dividing American voters and urged Bee's audience to not repeat those mistakes. Even with his recourse, though, Beck maintains that he's not a pessimist — he's a catastrophist. And that wasn't all. "I hate to break it to you," Beck said to Bee. "I've been watching you. You've adopted a lot of my catastrophe-kind of traits." With that revelation, the strange bedfellows of political discourse shared a cake of each other's likenesses. Stranger things have happened in American politics and it's going to be a bumpy road going forward. 2017! Denzel Washington deserves an Emmy for his dramatic greeting card performance Mistakenly released 'Mummy' reboot trailer is so bad it's very, very good This Korean man's instructional video on U.S. v UK accents is glorious Adorable pup does her best human impression to keep hospital patients smiling

"My audience wants to kill me for normalizing a lunatic like yourself," Samantha Bee said to Glenn Beck as they sat down for an interview while wearing ugly Christmas sweaters.

"As a guy who's done damage, I don't want to do any more damage," Beck said to a skeptical Bee. Beck acknowledged his role in dividing American voters and urged Bee's audience to not repeat those mistakes. Even with his recourse, though, Beck maintains that he's not a pessimist — he's a catastrophist.

And that wasn't all.

"I hate to break it to you," Beck said to Bee. "I've been watching you. You've adopted a lot of my catastrophe-kind of traits."

With that revelation, the strange bedfellows of political discourse shared a cake of each other's likenesses.

Stranger things have happened in American politics and it's going to be a bumpy road going forward. 2017!