Girlfriend somehow delighted by her boyfriend's gift of an empty box
Girlfriend somehow delighted by her boyfriend's gift of an empty box
Christmas gifts are an art form, and only a select few are true masters of the craft. 21-year-old Braxton Silo of New Orleans, Louisiana, seems to have captured everyone's hearts with his inspired gift giving. Recently, Silo purchased an empty box for his 20-year-old girlfriend, Ray, for Christmas, and she couldn't have been more thrilled. Empty. Box. SEE ALSO: Snoop Dogg's 2016 recap is a thing of beauty Take a look at their strange, endearing conversation , which has since made many, many people scratch their heads. This was my girl's reaction to me giving her an empty box pic.twitter.com/g8Xs6L6gAD — 6Brax (@Braxtation) December 14, 2016 Many were delighted by her response — confused, yet delighted. @Braxtation goals bro — Vino Stifler (@MettaWorld_Mack) December 14, 2016 Shortly after, couples all across Twitter started to send their significant others very basic, seemingly nonsensical gifts, trying to mimic what Rilo and Ray have. Sometimes it worked and sometimes it . . . didn't do that. @Braxtation  pic.twitter.com/TkYtRU8FpT — Devin (@Devin__72) December 16, 2016 If only all of us could be made so happy by the gift of a simple box. @Cjlong5  @Braxtation same difference pic.twitter.com/rIRhmXndOF — LilSindo (@SGDsindo) December 15, 2016 @Braxtation  pic.twitter.com/j0B2tp15R6 — mERIC_ristmas (@Ericle1030) December 17, 2016 If only the rest of us could be so excited by something so simple and not that attractive. BONUS: This frozen lighthouse looks like a fairytale castle

Christmas gifts are an art form, and only a select few are true masters of the craft.

21-year-old Braxton Silo of New Orleans, Louisiana, seems to have captured everyone's hearts with his inspired gift giving. Recently, Silo purchased an empty box for his 20-year-old girlfriend, Ray, for Christmas, and she couldn't have been more thrilled.

Empty. Box.

Take a look at their strange, endearing conversation, which has since made many, many people scratch their heads.

This was my girl's reaction to me giving her an empty box pic.twitter.com/g8Xs6L6gAD — 6Brax (@Braxtation) December 14, 2016

Many were delighted by her response — confused, yet delighted.

Shortly after, couples all across Twitter started to send their significant others very basic, seemingly nonsensical gifts, trying to mimic what Rilo and Ray have.

Sometimes it worked and sometimes it . . . didn't do that.

If only all of us could be made so happy by the gift of a simple box.

If only the rest of us could be so excited by something so simple and not that attractive.