84-Year-Old Defies Age, Flies Trapeze in Escondido
84-Year-Old Defies Age, 'Flies' in Escondido
local 84-Year-Old Defies Age, Flies Trapeze in Escondido By Greg Bledsoe

An 84-year-old woman loves to start everyday looking up. At age 78, she started flying trapeze in Escondido. Now her coach says she’s a natural who has the best attitude of anyone who comes out to fly. NBC 7’s Greg Bledsoe has more. (Published Monday, Dec 19, 2016)

The fountain of youth may be hiding just above a property off the beaten path in North San Diego County, at least for one San Diego woman.

Betty Goedhart may be 84 years old, but she comes out to Escondido four times a week to fly. Flying being short for flying trapeze.

It's something she wanted to try as a kid, but never got around to.

So, six years ago, at 78-years-old, she made her first trip to Trapeze High outside Escondido. The owner, Dave Ayers, said he gets about 20 to 70 fliers a week, but none compare to Betty.

Identical Twins Separated at Birth Reunited

Chinese twins, separated at birth and adopted by two different families in the United States, have finally been reunited after ten years apart. (Published Tuesday, Dec. 20, 2016)

"She does have the best attitude of anyone who comes out here to fly," Ayers said.

Goedhart hardly looks 84, and she said she feels the same as she did 20 years ago.

"I don't believe it, but when I write it down, I see it," she said.

It could be good genes, she said, or the fact that she has always been active. For the better part of her life, she was a professional ice skater.

College Sets up Homeless Camp on Campus

A group of about 100 homeless campers have moved onto the University of Washington campus. "It's historic, it's the first time a homeless encampment has been on a publicly funded university," says Sean Smith, a board member of the Seattle Housing and Resource Effort, or SHARE, a group that organizes tent cities. SHARE worked with UW administrators, faculty, and students to establish the new tent city. (Published Tuesday, Dec. 20, 2016)

"I don't know if it's a secret, but it's what I say," Goedhart said. "Keep active."

She has spent her golden years skydiving, rock climbing and now flying trapeze. Goedhart has a pretty quick response for anyone who tells her she should not be swinging upside down from a bar 30 feet in the air.

"I think they're wrong and I just hope that maybe I could change some people's mind about that," she said. "And maybe someone will look at this and say, if she can do it, so can I."

Dave Ayers said it's already working.

Crash Victim Trapped For 12 Hours in Car

A Pennsylvania man is recovering after spending 12 hours trapped in the wreckage of his crashed car. Family members and state troopers began searching for 52-year-old Brian Smith Saturday afternoon after he failed to return home after leaving work at 8 a.m. (Published Tuesday, Dec. 20, 2016)

"All of the people who come here that meet Betty, when they leave they say,' I want to be like Betty,'" he said. "I understand, we don't all have the genetics that she was blessed with and the energy she has at 84. The part that we can emulate is her good attitude."

In the meantime, she continues to show up four times a week, with the energy of a kid and perspective of an 84-year-old.

"I say to myself, I know I can't do this forever," Goedhart said. "So, I really better enjoy it today. And that's kind of how I live my life. I really have come to enjoy every day."