Holidaymakers will be given more detail on likelihood of terror attacks abroad, Boris Johnson reveals
Holidaymakers will be given more detail on likelihood of terror attacks abroad, Boris Johnson reveals
olidaymakers will for the first time be given advice about how likely terror attacks are abroad, where they have previously happened and what foreign Governments have done to prevent them, Boris Johnson has said. The foreign secretary announced that travellers will be given more detail on how predictable attacks are in countries around the world in order to help them make "informed decisions" about where to go away. Information on which areas have been targeted and how the attack was carried out; who was responsible and whether states are taking specific counter-terror measures will all be included in new online guidance. Currently, holidaymakers are told simply that there is a "high threat" of terrorism but not given detail about how likely a new attack is. nnouncing the changes Mr Johnson said the travel advice website will also be made more user-friendly to encourage people to check it before they go on holiday. People will also be told how previous attacks were carried out in order to give them a greater understanding and make them aware of the dangers they may face abroad. He said: "The threat from terrorism is evolving. Despite the pressure of military action in Syria and Iraq and concerted and sustained counter-terrorism action globally, the main terrorist groups – Daesh, Al Qaeda and groups associated with them – continue to pose a threat to UK interests globally, including British travellers. "I want British nationals to be able to travel abroad for business, study or pleasure, but with a clear personal understanding of the risks entailed in doing so." r Johnson said the travel advice website, which is regularly updated and occasionally warns against all travel to a country outside of the UK, has had over 40 million hits since 2015. It draws on information from diplomats on the ground, media reporting and intelligence services to provide updates but the foreign secretary acknowledged that as terror attacks become more prevalent simple warning of a high risk is not good enough. He added that travel agents and the public have welcomed the changes. It follows a spate of terror attacks on mainland Europe in recent years. he Association of British Travel Agents said: "ABTA and its Members rely on the informed expertise of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) in relation to travel advice regarding specific destinations and will always advise the travelling public to follow this advice. "The safety and security of the travelling public is always our main priority. ABTA welcomes the approach the FCO will take with its travel advice following the consultation, which aims to make this essential service even more accessible for British travellers, and we look forward to seeing further details.”

Holidaymakers will for the first time be given advice about how likely terror attacks are abroad, where they have previously happened and what foreign Governments have done to prevent them, Boris Johnson has said.

The foreign secretary announced that travellers will be given more detail on how predictable attacks are in countries around the world in order to help them make "informed decisions" about where to go away.

Information on which areas have been targeted and how the attack was carried out; who was responsible and whether states are taking specific counter-terror measures will all be included in new online guidance.

Currently, holidaymakers are told simply that there is a "high threat" of terrorism but not given detail about how likely a new attack is.