Bring Me The Horizon's Oli Sykes Created a 'Star Wars'-Themed Clothing Line
Bring Me The Horizon's Oli Sykes Created a 'Star Wars'-Themed Clothing Line
Billboard's 100 Best Pop Songs of 2016: Critics' Picks 10 Best Rock/Alternative Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks The Year In Surprise Rollouts: How Beyonce, Frank Ocean & Kanye West Remixed Album Releases In 2016 Billboard's 50 Best Albums of 2016: Critics' Picks Bring Me The Horizon's Oli Sykes Created a 'Star Wars'-Themed Clothing Line  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Bring Me The Horizon frontman Oli Sykes is channeling the force for a new collaboration between his clothing line Drop Dead and to deliver amazing inspired gear. The line features a collection of jackets donning series-themed patches and images, like the Rebel Alliance insignia and Storm Troopers, as well as sayings such as, "What chance do we have?" and "We have hope." Heres some shots of our collaboration with @starwars for #rogueone was an intensely challenging project for both sides, but worth it. pic.twitter.com/biHWwQ7mCv In a tweet, Sykes describes the collaboration as “an intensely challenging project for both sides, but worth it.” The film, was released to theaters Dec.16. Check out the collaborative line in the video below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Oliver Sykes of Bring Me The Horizon performs on Day 4 at the Sziget Festival 2016 on Aug. 13, 2016 in Budapest, Hungary. Â

Bring Me The Horizon frontman Oli Sykes is channeling the force for a new collaboration between his clothing line Drop Dead and Rogue One: A Star Wars Story to deliver amazing Star Wars-inspired gear.

The line features a collection of jackets donning series-themed patches and images, like the Rebel Alliance insignia and Storm Troopers, as well as sayings such as, "What chance do we have?" and "We have hope."

Heres some shots of our collaboration with @starwars for #rogueone was an intensely challenging project for both sides, but worth it. pic.twitter.com/biHWwQ7mCv — Oliver Sykes (@olobersyko) December 19, 2016

In a tweet, Sykes describes the collaboration as “an intensely challenging project for both sides, but worth it.”

The film, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story was released to theaters Dec.16.

Check out the collaborative line in the video below.