Valentine's Day Take-Out Trend Is Bad News for Restaurants
Valentine's Day Take-Out Trend Is Bad News for Restaurants
Valentine's Day Take-Out Trend Is Bad News for Restaurants   Consumer  Shelly Banjo is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering retail and consumer goods. She previously was a reporter at Quartz and the Wall Street Journal.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Restaurant chains trying to understand why customer traffic is down should follow Cupid's arrow. Olive Garden parent Darden Restaurants Inc. revealed Tuesday that the breadstick purveyor's biggest day for take-out orders is Valentine's Day -- a surprising admission that should strike fear across the industry. Super Bowl Sunday would have made more sense as the top take-out day, given the widespread carbo-loading that happens on that day. But Valentine's Day? As Nation's Restaurant News editor Jonathan Maze put it: "Huh."  Americans choosing to dine at home on the one day a year couples feel most pressured to go out is the latest sign of dramatically shifting consumer preferences. The eat-at-home trend has helped push restaurant traffic down by 3 percent so far this year from a year ago, after a 0.8 percent drop in 2015, according to Black Box Intelligence. Sales of full-service restaurants built on the notion that diners would take an hour or so for a sit-down meal were already strained by the rise of fast-casual restaurants such as Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. and Panera Bread Co. They offered more variety and higher-quality food than fast-food chains, but with fast-food speed and convenience. Sit-down restaurants were 53 percent of the restaurant market a decade ago , while restaurants without wait staff made up the rest, according to industry tracking firm Technomic. Now those shares have flipped. And increasingly customers are skipping going to restaurants altogether, in favor of take-out and delivery, along with at-home meal kits. Thanks in part to this trend, 2016 has seen the highest number of bankruptcies of public and major private restaurants since 2011, according to New Generation Research. Chains such as Ruby Tuesday Inc. -- whose CEO resigned earlier this year -- Brinker International Inc.'s Chili's and DineEquity Inc.'s Applebee's are struggling to reverse more than a year of declining sales. They might want to take a cue from Darden, which got a head start on dealing with these trends in 2014. That's when activist shareholders pushed it to sell off its sales-hemorrhaging Red Lobster chain and cut costs by simplifying its menu and operations. That freed up cash to invest in technology for digital ordering, tabletop tablets and labor scheduling, which have boosted sales and profit margins. Olive Garden's take-out sales have risen more than 50 percent in the past three years, executives said on Tuesday, and now make up nearly 13 percent of total sales. Growth in digital and off-premise sales helped make the company confident enough to reaffirm its 2017 guidance, even as the rest of the industry struggles with what some are calling a restaurant recession. The chain's next target is delivery, which it's testing in some markets. Executives on Tuesday gushed over the e-commerce and delivery prowess of Amazon.com Inc., saying they're constantly asking, "What would Amazon do?" It's the right instinct. Given changing consumer habits, restaurants should lust after Amazon's ordering and delivery capabilities, just as retailers have started to do. Who said romance was dead? This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at sbanjo@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net Reported transfer fee for the Brazilian Hey Big Spender  China's Oscar-Winning Soccer Party   Entertainment  Mainland purchases of Hong Kong insurance, Q3 Low Bar  Hong Kong's Little Insurance Hurdle   Finance  Gas Giants Hot Air  Careful What You Wish For, Praxair   Deals  Lukewarm Reception It's a Fixer-Upper  Biogen's a Tough Gig for Any CEO   Health  Satisfied? Drugstore Cowboy  Fred's Rides to the Rescue for Walgreens   Deals  Breakup Prediction Stargazing  2017 Horoscopes for Your Favorite Dealmakers   Deals  Diverging Trends Midmarket Mania  Swiss Watchmakers to Santa: Try Harder   Consumer  British Discount Plastic Fantastic  Lloyds-MBNA: Making Brexit Nice Again   Finance  Look Out Below Victory to the Swift  Ukraine Shows Italy How to Do a Bailout   Finance  India gold imports, November Tarnished  India's Golden Parachute Fails   Commodities  Creditor Alarm no surrender  Tata Feud Enters All-or-Nothing Zone   Management  Yield! Sharp shock  Strife and the Case for Stable Bond Yields   Markets  Tight Liquidity Temper Tantrum  Creditors' China Conundrum   Markets  Cash Only, Please Solution Central  Where India's Cash War Went Wrong   Finance  How Cool Are Tech Copycats, on a Scale of 1-10? Attack of the Clones  Facebook Wins Imitation Game   Tech  Law And Border  Trump Tax a Wild Card for Oil   Health  Number of clients told to trade more or find another bank Christmas Cuts  Barclays Has an Ultimatum   Finance  What Danone paid for WhiteWave Still Smiling?  The Yogurt King Slips Up   Consumer  A More Direct Approach O Canada  Pension Funds Should Look North for Inspiration  Reflation Trade Investment Drought  Donald Trump and the Gift of Capex   Industrials  Peace Dividend conflict signals  Congo Crisis Heightens Copper Crunch   Commodities  2016 most volatile year for Asian stocks since Gyrations  Political Risk Is Moving to Asia   Markets  Turning Japanese Pit Stop  China's Convenient Battleground   Consumer  Underwater Money Trap  Gilead's Merck Loss Means It Should Spend More   Health

Restaurant chains trying to understand why customer traffic is down should follow Cupid's arrow.

Olive Garden parent Darden Restaurants Inc. revealed Tuesday that the breadstick purveyor's biggest day for take-out orders is Valentine's Day -- a surprising admission that should strike fear across the industry.

Rising Dough Darden's shares are up 22% so far this year, compared to a 4% gain for all restaurants in the S&P 500 Source: Bloomberg

Super Bowl Sunday would have made more sense as the top take-out day, given the widespread carbo-loading that happens on that day. But Valentine's Day? As Nation's Restaurant News editor Jonathan Maze put it: "Huh."

Americans choosing to dine at home on the one day a year couples feel most pressured to go out is the latest sign of dramatically shifting consumer preferences. The eat-at-home trend has helped push restaurant traffic down by 3 percent so far this year from a year ago, after a 0.8 percent drop in 2015, according to Black Box Intelligence.

Traffic Jam Fewer customers are going to restaurants, as 2016 marks another year of declining customer traffic Source: Black Box Intelligence Restaurant Industry Snapshot

Sales of full-service restaurants built on the notion that diners would take an hour or so for a sit-down meal were already strained by the rise of fast-casual restaurants such as Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. and Panera Bread Co. They offered more variety and higher-quality food than fast-food chains, but with fast-food speed and convenience.

Sit-down restaurants were 53 percent of the restaurant market a decade ago, while restaurants without wait staff made up the rest, according to industry tracking firm Technomic. Now those shares have flipped.

Sales To Go Olive Garden's take-out sales continue to post double-digit gains, fueling total sales at the restaurant chain Source: Darden Restaurants

And increasingly customers are skipping going to restaurants altogether, in favor of take-out and delivery, along with at-home meal kits. Thanks in part to this trend, 2016 has seen the highest number of bankruptcies of public and major private restaurants since 2011, according to New Generation Research.

Chains such as Ruby Tuesday Inc. -- whose CEO resigned earlier this year -- Brinker International Inc.'s Chili's and DineEquity Inc.'s Applebee's are struggling to reverse more than a year of declining sales.

Pasta Lovers Sales at Olive Garden parent Darden continue to outpace casual-dining rivals Source: Bloomberg Intelligence

They might want to take a cue from Darden, which got a head start on dealing with these trends in 2014. That's when activist shareholders pushed it to sell off its sales-hemorrhaging Red Lobster chain and cut costs by simplifying its menu and operations. That freed up cash to invest in technology for digital ordering, tabletop tablets and labor scheduling, which have boosted sales and profit margins.

Olive Garden's take-out sales have risen more than 50 percent in the past three years, executives said on Tuesday, and now make up nearly 13 percent of total sales. Growth in digital and off-premise sales helped make the company confident enough to reaffirm its 2017 guidance, even as the rest of the industry struggles with what some are calling a restaurant recession.

Olive Garden's Biggest Take-Out Day Valentine's Day

The chain's next target is delivery, which it's testing in some markets.

Executives on Tuesday gushed over the e-commerce and delivery prowess of Amazon.com Inc., saying they're constantly asking, "What would Amazon do?"

It's the right instinct. Given changing consumer habits, restaurants should lust after Amazon's ordering and delivery capabilities, just as retailers have started to do. Who said romance was dead?

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Shelly Banjo in New York at sbanjo@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net