4,000 soldiers prepared to drive rail replacement buses if needed during Southern rail strikes
4,000 soldiers prepared to drive rail replacement buses if needed during Southern rail strikes
our thousand soldiers are standing ready to drive rail replacement buses during Southern rail strikes as the Government prepares to circumvent union disruption. Ministers have been lobbied by Tory MPs whose constituents have been worst affected by the strikes to deploy soldiers to help drive commuters to work. Conservatives believe the move would be similar to the “green goddess” fire engines that were used in the past when fire-fighters went on strike. Tens of thousands of commuters could also be offered free car parking to compensate them for the financial impact of disruption, understands. Currently commuters who drive to the station are forced to pay up to £13 a day to park even if their trains are delayed by hours because of strikes . While the move would have to come from the train operators, ministers are said to be considering publicly calling on them to adopt the policy. ears of Christmas transport chaos eased yesterday as a planned 48-hour pay strike by baggage handlers and check-in staff at 18 airports was called off. Members of Unite employed by Swissport were due to walk out from Friday, threatening disruption for families and other travellers leaving the UK for Christmas. However Len McCluskey, the Unite general secretary, said the strike had been called off after an improved pay offer, saying he was “delighted” by the news. The Government has been under pressure to act over strikes from Tory backbenches whose constituents are severely impacted by the Southern Rail disruption. Theresa May and Chris Grayling, the Transport Secretary, held a 45-minute meeting with around 25 Tory MPs to discuss responses to the dispute Monday. The Prime Minister was said to be in “listening mode” as the Conservatives were informed of a new drive to provide replacement buses for those impacted by strikes. ast week, ministers were asked how many soldiers are able to drive buses and “could potentially be deployed in the event of industrial action on the rail network”. Mike Penning, the defence minister, revealed that more than 4,000 military personnel were trained to drive buses or coaches, including around 250 in the last month. “Defence continues to work closely with the Department for Transport (and other Government Departments) to determine areas where military support within the UK is necessary, achievable, and permitted,” he added. im Loughton, the Tory MP for East Worthing and Shoreham, said: “We should be doing more to use government resources to help passengers who are completely left stranded in these strikes “Bringing in troops to help with alternative transport seems to be an obvious thing that we should be doing.” He added: “When you have an ambulance or fire engine strike you bring in the ‘green goddesses’ fire engines. We need the same for rail strikes.” Free car parking at stations affected by strikes is also understood to be under consideration as ministers seek to help those impacted by the rail strikes. It would see commuters affected saving up to £60 a week, effectively creating a new form of compensation for those who have been caught up in the chaos. new study by the University of Chichester has found that the Southern Rail strikes are costing the economy £11 million a day. The 27 days of strikes by members of the RMT and Aslef unions could have cost £300 million in lost productivity, said Professor Dave Cooper. His report calculated the total economic costs to the thousands of commuters who have been delayed, missed work, or had to stay at home. Professor Cooper said: "In reality this may be higher as it does not account for other impacts such as loss of sales, impact of travel delays, staff morale and motivational issues, or individual loss of income. "The strikes in December could cost between £47 million and £55 million and will impact London's retail and service economy at a critical time of the year. "Small businesses will be unable to absorb these additional costs and individuals are losing their jobs as a result."

Four thousand soldiers are standing ready to drive rail replacement buses during Southern rail strikes as the Government prepares to circumvent union disruption.

Ministers have been lobbied by Tory MPs whose constituents have been worst affected by the strikes to deploy soldiers to help drive commuters to work.

Conservatives believe the move would be similar to the “green goddess” fire engines that were used in the past when fire-fighters went on strike.

Tens of thousands of commuters could also be offered free car parking to compensate them for the financial impact of disruption, The Telegraph understands.

Currently commuters who drive to the station are forced to pay up to £13 a day to park even if their trains are delayed by hours because of strikes.

While the move would have to come from the train operators, ministers are said to be considering publicly calling on them to adopt the policy.