Driverless trucks threaten jobs in 'Trumpland'



Driverless trucks threaten jobs in 'Trumpland'

Updated

Truck driver John Jacques has a lot on his mind as he hauls his 33,000-litre petrol tanker over 18 hours a day, six days a week, travelling the length and breadth of America.

"I'm trying to decide if I should give up," says the 56-year-old during a break at the Petro Truckstop in east Texas.

Worn down by a tough industry that's getting tougher, he's wondering if it's time get out and go fishing.

Barrelling down the technology highway towards this iconic industry looms the spectre of driverless trucks.

The technology, now undergoing trials, is being touted as a way of reducing a massive road toll. There are nearly half a million accidents involving trucks each year, with 4,000 fatalities, or about 11 deaths a day.

"Driver behaviours such as speeding and texting continue to challenge efforts to reduce accidents," said Chris Spear, head of the trucking industry association.

"Automation could be the solution for bringing the number of highway fatalities where it should be — zero."

Despite test snafus in California, where driverless cars ran red lights and failed to respect bike lanes, ride-sharing upstart Uber says it's just a process of product improvement.

The Teamsters union disagrees, with spokeswoman Kara Deniz saying: "We believe trained, professional drivers will continue to be necessary for the safe operation of vehicles."

For all the talk of safety, the economics are clear. Trucks carrying themselves around the highways will save an estimated $US168 billion annually.

In late October, Uber off-shoot Otto delivered beer in Colorado using a remotely operated truck, the first driverless shipment ever.

Software developers are working on one remote driver overseeing multiple vehicles at once, and ultimately removing the need for significant human involvement.

Otto has made two further successful truck deliveries in ordinary traffic in Ohio. State Governor John Kasich champions the technology, despite his state having one of the nation's highest numbers of truck drivers.

Otto is selling the technology as an aid to drivers, not a replacement.

"Truck drivers will have the opportunity to rest during long stretches of highway while the truck continues to drive," the company claims.

"It's highly unlikely to get into a collision, drive aggressively, or waste a single drop of fuel."

But the nation's 3.5 million truck drivers know their future is on the line.

A human industry at risk

Trucking is the single biggest occupation in 29 states in America, and one of the biggest in the country.

President-elect Donald Trump has so far been silent on the impact of automation on jobs, but his campaigning on employment has raised expectations he'll protect them.

"I think Mr Trump will help the truckers," said Trump voter Robert Smith, 59.

"We just don't know what's going on with jobs, so many things are changing."

However, Mr Trump's choice for labour secretary, fast-food executive Andy Puzder, has long been a proponent of automation of low-skilled jobs.

"[Machines are] always polite, they always upsell, they never take a vacation, they never show up late, there's never a slip-and-fall, or an age, sex, or race discrimination case," Mr Puzder said.

Trump won by a 30 percentage point margin in counties that have the highest number of "routine" jobs like manufacturing, retailing, and truck driving — work that is vulnerable to offshoring and automation. Automation will become a hot-button political issue pretty quickly.

Professor Frank Levy, labour economist at MIT, says technology has similar effects to trade.

"People have to adjust, but it's very hard to adjust when things come at you at such a rapid speed," he said.

"Your identity is wrapped up in what you do."

Driverless trucks are yet to be tested in conditions like ice and inner cities, but if successful, government regulation will be the final hurdle to wide-scale adoption.

Uber has already snubbed regulators, defying a Californian requirement for testing permits for driverless cars, in what it argues is an "important issue of principle".

Former treasury secretary Lawrence Summers recently said he expects one-third of men aged between 25 and 54 will be out of work by 2050.

Underemployment, addiction, decreasing life expectancy, and income inequality are on the rise since the global financial crisis of 2007. Dramatic changes to major industry sectors will further destabilise the social fabric.

'You need the human in everything'

Caroline, a driver for 18 years, loves her job, but it is the social interaction between the long stints on the road that sustains her.

She sees Uber's vision of driverless technology working in tandem with drivers for non-stop trips as horrific.

"I like the meeting people, I like running my mouth," the 67-year-old said on a break.

Having driven long-haul trucks since he was 18, nothing will convince John Jacques that a truck without a driver could be safer.

"Driverless trucks are not safe," he said.

"If something goes wrong, they'll cause a lot of damage."

Next door to the diner, the Beaumont Truckstop Ministry offers a place of respite, where people pray for safe travels.

Former trucker Gavin Bellomy preaches once a month, after finding God at a roadside stop 10 years ago.

He finds automated truck driving "scary", and says everyone is watching the new President-elect.

"I'm not sure about Trump, but I hope he puts in some of the program he promised, because we need it," he says.

Caroline says there's a widespread feeling changes are being imposed by people who don't understand what it's like on the road.

"As long as there are necessities in life, you need truck drivers," Caroline said preparing to set off on her next stretch.

"You need the human in everything."

Topics: industry, road-transport, transport, business-economics-and-finance, science-and-technology, united-states

First posted