Young Thug Wears a Dress on the 'Jeffery' Cover - The Most Unexpected Style Moments of 2016
The Most Unexpected Style Moments of 2016Young Thug Wears a Dress on the 'Jeffery' Cover
Young Thug Wears a Dress on the 'Jeffery' Cover Before the release of Thug’s mixtape , he was already The King of wearing women’s clothing and giving a middle finger to gender norms . But this past August, the Atlanta rapper blew the Jaden Smiths and Jared Letos of the world out of the water and wore a dress on the cover of his new mixtape . The image made some people feel uncomfortable, but was largely celebrated (as it should have been). It was an instant classic on the Internet. According to Garfield Larmond, the photographer responsible for the cover, Thug was at VFiles when he saw the dress by Alessandro Trincone , a participant in VFiles’ crowdsourced Season 7 runway show. “He saw the piece in New York, and said immediately, ‘I want that for the cover,’” Larmond told . “Like, there was no thought about it. He just saw it and knew he wanted it." Now, to be clear, this didn’t make the list because it was shocking to see Thug in a dress. But it was a bold move that moved the needle and further broke gender norms. The cover is one of the best moments of 2016, period. Don’t @ me. —​

Before the release of Thug’s Jeffery mixtape, he was already The King of wearing women’s clothing and giving a middle finger to gender norms. But this past August, the Atlanta rapper blew the Jaden Smiths and Jared Letos of the world out of the water and wore a dress on the cover of his new mixtape. The image made some people feel uncomfortable, but was largely celebrated (as it should have been). It was an instant classic on the Internet.

According to Garfield Larmond, the photographer responsible for the cover, Thug was at VFiles when he saw the dress by Alessandro Trincone, a participant in VFiles’ crowdsourced Season 7 runway show. “He saw the piece in New York, and said immediately, ‘I want that for the cover,’” Larmond told Fader. “Like, there was no thought about it. He just saw it and knew he wanted it."

Now, to be clear, this didn’t make the list because it was shocking to see Thug in a dress. But it was a bold move that moved the needle and further broke gender norms. The Jeffery cover is one of the best moments of 2016, period. Don’t @ me. —​Karizza Sanchez