Artificial intelligence can predict a woman's personality say researchers
AI can predict a woman's personality by her looks, researchers claim


They had also claimed their AI could tell if a person is a criminal by their looks

The team said they used images of 3,163 women to train the neural network

It could tell if a woman has 'positive' or 'negative' traits based on her looks

A team of Chinese researchers claimed they had developed an AI programme which could predict a woman's personality solely based on her looks, according to Chinese media.

By looking at a woman's facial features, the new technology would be able put the woman into one of the two personality categories.

The first category is marked 'positive', which is linked with words such as 'pure', 'endearing' and 'elegant'; while the second category is marked 'negative', which includes key words such as 'pretentious,' 'pompous,' or 'coquettish', reported the People's Daily Online.

Chinese researchers claimed they had trained an AI computer to predict a woman's personality solely based on her looks (file photo)

The AI programme is developed by researchers Wu Xiaolin, Zhang Xi and Liu Chang, all from the Shanghai Jiaotong University.

The lead researcher, Wu Xiaolin, said the two classes they used to define women's characters reflected 'the aesthetic preference and value judgments that prevail among young males in contemporary China', according to People's Daily, which cited a report on Thepaper.cn.

Wu, a professor at the Shanghai Jiaotong University, said he and his fellow researchers had collected images of 3,954 of women from the internet.

S+ category: The collage is released by Wu and his team as part of their academic results. All the women's looks suggest they have 'positive' personality traits, such as 'pure' and 'elegant'

S- category: The looks of the women in the collage indicate they have 'negative' personality traits, such as 'pretentious,' 'pompous' and 'coquettish', claimed the Chinese researchers

They gave each of these pictures a personality trait, such as 'sweet', 'endearing', 'pretentious' or 'coquettish'.

All these emotional labels had been separated into two groups by the researchers: the 'positive' category S+, which includes 'pure', 'gentle', 'sweet', 'innocent', 'natural'; and the 'negative' category S- which includes 'pretentious', 'pompous', 'vain' and 'coquettish'.

Wu Xiaolin (pictured), a professor from Shanghai Jiaotong University, is the lead researcher of the project

Having divided the pictures into separate groups, the researchers then feed them into a convolutional neural network.

Among them, 2,000 fell into the S+ category and 1,954 fell into the S- category.

Eighty per cent of these pictures were used as the data to train the neural network. Ten per cent were used to verify the programme and the rest were used to test the new AI.

Wu Xiaolin, Zhang Xi and Liu Chang released their research result on December 11 in a paper they have submitted to arXiv, an online open-sourced pre-print journal.

The paper, titled 'Automated Inference on Sociopsychological Impressions of Attractive Female Faces', has not yet been published officially.

The team's last research effort claimed that AI could tell whether or not a person could be a criminal based on their looks. People with smaller mouths, curvier upper lips and closer-set eyes (pictured top), are more likely to be criminals, according to Wu Xiaolin and his team

It is a sequel to an earlier paper the team had published in November.

In the previous paper, also submitted to arXiv, the team claimed that a new AI technology could detect if a human could be a criminal by analysing their facial features.