Mel B: 'You get to laugh your pants off at people who are delusional'

Nooo … we’re still the Spice Girls . It’s Geri, Emma and Melanie. I think people just decided to call it that. [Annoyed] Look, we didn’t call it that. It’s the press that have called it that. We’re still the Spice Girls as far as we’re concerned. We’re still the majority of the Spice Girls. But there’s no GEM. It’s you lot that have decided that. We’re just us three. That’s it. I think that’s taken out of context. When somebody says something as a joke, the British press take things and twist them. I can’t tell you anything ’cos nothing’s been set up yet. That’s all up for discussion. Until we’ve actually got together and got a foundation of what we’re doing, there’s nothing much to say about it really. You’re not listening to me. There’s no reunion set in stone. Until there is, there’s not really much I can say about it. [Baffled] Gosh, your questions are crazy. I’m just me. I’m just very opinionated. I react to whatever I see. If it’s good, it’s good. If it’s bad, it’s bad. I don’t mince my words. Hopefully I’m somewhat encouraging in the midst of it all. I love doing those shows. You get to watch a star being born. You get to laugh your pants off at people who are delusional. You get to be part of a rollercoaster ride with somebody’s life. It’s great. No, ’cos it was a teenybopper magazine that named us all ’cos the journalist couldn’t be bothered to remember our names. So he named us Sporty, Posh, Scary, Ginger, Baby and that was it . It stuck, and we thought it was funny. [Getting cross] Are you not understanding what I’m saying? It was a journalist who named us. We didn’t name ourselves. It was a journalist. You’re not listening to anything I’m saying. The names came out in the press, and we thought it was funny. It wasn’t like, “Oh, I’m going to be called Scary Spice for ever.” It was funny. I saw him last week, in Australia. He’s great. I think his comments again were taken out of context. He’s a joker, at the end of the day. Well, that was back in the day when I got my tongue pierced. I was 19. It wasn’t a thing like that. I was like, “What does it feel like?” I don’t know. You’ll have to ask them. They didn’t seem to mind. Not me.  I think only one was taken. I was more bothered about the fact that my car was smashed into so violently. The police are investigating. So hopefully ... They took a few things. Nobody was injured. I was more pissed off about the car. Standing in my dressing room. Right there. [Points to dressing table]. You don’t see anything. It’s just a bit of skin. You see more when you wear a bikini: you see cleavage, you see your butt. All you saw was this … [Crosses hands over chest]. I don’t remember, to be honest. But I’m sure if somebody was saying to me, “Get your boobs out,” and I didn’t feel comfortable, I would have said something, just like I would expect any women would say something. Unless you’re a Page 3 model, it’s not my job to get my boobs out, and I’m not a Page 3 model. If I want to get them out for me, I will, but not for anyone else. I had my eyes lasered 12 years ago, and there’s a one in a something or other chance that your eyes can revert and this one [points to left eye] reverted back to way worse than it was. But I don’t ignore people. You’re not annoying. A question is a question at the end of the day. It’s up to me if I want to answer them. Lip Sync Battle UK is on Channel 5 from 6 January at 10pm  Top of the Pops magazine. According to editor Peter Lorraine, the nicknames were printed with the girls’ blessing after their first photoshoot. Scary was apparently too scary even for Robbie. A shameful pastime of British men during the mid-90s. Yes, she did. You can watch it on YouTube. And she asks him to dinner and gives him a kiss on the cheek and dances a little jig. Topics  Spice Girls   Pop and rock

Hi, Mel! You’ve reformed the Spice Girls as GEM. How long did you spend arguing why it shouldn’t be EMG, MEG, EGM, MGE or GME (1)?

Nooo … we’re still the Spice Girls. It’s Geri, Emma and Melanie. I think people just decided to call it that.

Er, but doesn’t it say you’re called GEM on your website, spicegirlsgem.com?

[Annoyed] Look, we didn’t call it that. It’s the press that have called it that. We’re still the Spice Girls as far as we’re concerned.

But there’s only three of you …

We’re still the majority of the Spice Girls.

The Spice Girls at 20: ‘Women weren’t allowed to be like that in public’ Read more

If Geri decides to leave, will you take the B and U from Bunton, and the M from Melanie and rebrand as BUM?

But there’s no GEM. It’s you lot that have decided that. We’re just us three. That’s it.

Posh recently admitted she didn’t even have her microphone turned on when the Spice Girls performed live. So she’s no loss, right?

I think that’s taken out of context. When somebody says something as a joke, the British press take things and twist them.

So what do you have planned for this epic 60% of the Spice Girls 20th-anniversary reunion spectacular extravaganza?

I can’t tell you anything ’cos nothing’s been set up yet.

No big ideas up your sleeves?

That’s all up for discussion. Until we’ve actually got together and got a foundation of what we’re doing, there’s nothing much to say about it really.

How about Spice Girls – on Ice?

You’re not listening to me. There’s no reunion set in stone. Until there is, there’s not really much I can say about it.

Okey-dokey. When you’re judging on The X Factor or America’s Got Talent, are you secretly glad you were branded Scary so you can be scary, rather than say Nice Spice … ?

[Baffled] Gosh, your questions are crazy.

Yep.

I’m just me. I’m just very opinionated. I react to whatever I see. If it’s good, it’s good. If it’s bad, it’s bad. I don’t mince my words. Hopefully I’m somewhat encouraging in the midst of it all. I love doing those shows. You get to watch a star being born. You get to laugh your pants off at people who are delusional. You get to be part of a rollercoaster ride with somebody’s life. It’s great.

Did you mind when you first got branded Scary Spice?

No, ’cos it was a teenybopper magazine (2) that named us all ’cos the journalist couldn’t be bothered to remember our names. So he named us Sporty, Posh, Scary, Ginger, Baby and that was it (3). It stuck, and we thought it was funny.

Tsk. Journalists, eh? But were you happy with the Scary moniker?

[Getting cross] Are you not understanding what I’m saying? It was a journalist who named us. We didn’t name ourselves. It was a journalist.

Were you at least happy you didn’t get called something a bit more obvious, but essentially a bit racist like Northern Spice or worse?

You’re not listening to anything I’m saying. The names came out in the press, and we thought it was funny. It wasn’t like, “Oh, I’m going to be called Scary Spice for ever.” It was funny.

Righty-ho. Robbie Williams likes to joke he’s been in Take That and four of five Spice Girls …

I saw him last week, in Australia.

Er, how is he?

He’s great.

Who are you to deny him the full house (4)?

I think his comments again were taken out of context. He’s a joker, at the end of the day.

You also claimed to have snogged all the other Spice Girls – what order would you rank them (5)?

Well, that was back in the day when I got my tongue pierced. I was 19. It wasn’t a thing like that. I was like, “What does it feel like?”

Er, what does it feel like?

I don’t know. You’ll have to ask them. They didn’t seem to mind.

Didn’t you also tell Prince Charles he should get his tongue pierced?

Not me. (6)

Oh. You recently offered a $5,000 reward for the return of some suitcases that were stolen from your car in LA. What was in them? Gold bullion?

I think only one was taken. I was more bothered about the fact that my car was smashed into so violently.

Have you found the culprit?

The police are investigating. So hopefully ... They took a few things. Nobody was injured. I was more pissed off about the car.

You recently posted a nude selfie on Instagram …

Standing in my dressing room. Right there. [Points to dressing table]. You don’t see anything. It’s just a bit of skin. You see more when you wear a bikini: you see cleavage, you see your butt. All you saw was this … [Crosses hands over chest].

Some 1990s footage of some advertising execs asking the Spice Girls to show more midriff and cleavage has emerged online recently. What gives?

I don’t remember, to be honest. But I’m sure if somebody was saying to me, “Get your boobs out,” and I didn’t feel comfortable, I would have said something, just like I would expect any women would say something. Unless you’re a Page 3 model, it’s not my job to get my boobs out, and I’m not a Page 3 model. If I want to get them out for me, I will, but not for anyone else.

Er, thanks Mel. Are you really blind in one eye, or do you just say that so you can ignore half the people who are speaking to you?

I had my eyes lasered 12 years ago, and there’s a one in a something or other chance that your eyes can revert and this one [points to left eye] reverted back to way worse than it was. But I don’t ignore people.

Even when they’re asking you annoying questions?

You’re not annoying. A question is a question at the end of the day. It’s up to me if I want to answer them.

Lip Sync Battle UK is on Channel 5 from 6 January at 10pm

(1) n! = n × (n−1)!



(2) Top of the Pops magazine.

(3) According to editor Peter Lorraine, the nicknames were printed with the girls’ blessing after their first photoshoot.

(4) Scary was apparently too scary even for Robbie.

(5) A shameful pastime of British men during the mid-90s.

(6) Yes, she did. You can watch it on YouTube. And she asks him to dinner and gives him a kiss on the cheek and dances a little jig.