Tom Arnold says he has the rumored racist Trump tape from "The Apprentice"
Tom Arnold says he has the rumored racist Trump tape from "The Apprentice"
Tom Arnold attends the premiere of “Straight Outta Compton” on August 10, 2015 in Los Angeles.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Tom Arnold claims that not only has he seen the infamous “Apprentice” tape that features President-elect Donald Trump -- at that time serving as host of the reality show -- uttering racial slurs, he actually has it in his possession. Arnold said during a radio interview that he has the tape but won’t release them out of respect for the “Apprentice” employees who gave it to him. “I have the outtakes to ‘The Apprentice’ where he says every bad thing ever, every offensive, racist thing ever,” Arnold said. “It was him sitting in that chair saying the N-word, saying the C-word, calling his son a retard, just being so mean to his own children.” Arnold explained that the tape had been put together by employees of the reality series as a humorous video Christmas card that was sent out to numerous recipients. “[When] the people sent it to me, it was funny. Hundreds of people have seen these. It was sort of a Christmas video they put together. He wasn’t going to be president of the United States,” Arnold explained. “Now these people -- two editors and an associate producer -- are scared to death. They’re scared of his people, they’re scared of they’ll never work again, there’s a $5 million confidentiality agreement.” Knowledge of the tape’s existence wasn’t exactly a carefully guarded secret, as even Trump’s opponent tries to persuade Arnold to release it prior to the election. “The Sunday before the election, I get a call from Arnold [Schwarzenegger’s] CAA agent, sitting next to Hillary Clinton. They said, ‘I need you to release him saying the N-word,’” he said. But Arnold wouldn’t budge. In fact, he didn’t think it would make much of a difference in the election outcome. “I think if the people that like him saw him saying the N-word -- he’s sitting matter-of-factly in front of there has to be 30 people there, and he’s matter-of-factly saying all of this stuff -- so I think they would have liked him more, the people. For being politically incorrect.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Ned Ehrbar is an entertainment producer for CBS News.

Tom Arnold claims that not only has he seen the infamous “Apprentice” tape that features President-elect Donald Trump -- at that time serving as host of the reality show -- uttering racial slurs, he actually has it in his possession.

Arnold said during a radio interview that he has the tape but won’t release them out of respect for the “Apprentice” employees who gave it to him.

“I have the outtakes to ‘The Apprentice’ where he says every bad thing ever, every offensive, racist thing ever,” Arnold said. “It was him sitting in that chair saying the N-word, saying the C-word, calling his son a retard, just being so mean to his own children.”

Arnold explained that the tape had been put together by employees of the reality series as a humorous video Christmas card that was sent out to numerous recipients.

“[When] the people sent it to me, it was funny. Hundreds of people have seen these. It was sort of a Christmas video they put together. He wasn’t going to be president of the United States,” Arnold explained. “Now these people -- two editors and an associate producer -- are scared to death. They’re scared of his people, they’re scared of they’ll never work again, there’s a $5 million confidentiality agreement.”

Knowledge of the tape’s existence wasn’t exactly a carefully guarded secret, as even Trump’s opponent tries to persuade Arnold to release it prior to the election.

“The Sunday before the election, I get a call from Arnold [Schwarzenegger’s] CAA agent, sitting next to Hillary Clinton. They said, ‘I need you to release him saying the N-word,’” he said.

But Arnold wouldn’t budge. In fact, he didn’t think it would make much of a difference in the election outcome.

“I think if the people that like him saw him saying the N-word -- he’s sitting matter-of-factly in front of there has to be 30 people there, and he’s matter-of-factly saying all of this stuff -- so I think they would have liked him more, the people. For being politically incorrect.”