Taking A Cue From Paris, Delhi Might Slash DTC Bus Fares By Over 50% In A Move To Curb Air Pollution
Taking A Cue From Paris, Delhi Might Slash DTC Bus Fares By Over 50% So As To Curb Pollution
Taking A Cue From Paris, Delhi Might Slash DTC Bus Fares By Over 50% In A Move To Curb Air Pollution To encourage public transport use and combat air pollution, the Delhi government is mulling over reducing fares of DTC and cluster buses (orange) by over 50 per cent. The decision on the issue will be announced by the government in the next one or two days. The new fares would then come into effect from January, a senior official told PTI. The government's move comes a few days after Lt Governor Najeeb Jung had asked the AAP dispensation to work out the modalities of reducing fares of both AC and non-AC buses to promote the use of public transport in the city. However, new fares will be enforced in both Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses, operated by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS). Last week, the Lt Governor had directed the transport department to reduce bus fares across different slabs for the next two months keeping the winter season in mind as air pollution is on an all-time high during this period. In Paris, after a spike in pollution, the authorities had recently made public transport free of cost to encourage people to shun private cars, the senior official said, adding that the Delhi government drew inspiration from the move.

To encourage public transport use and combat air pollution, the Delhi government is mulling over reducing fares of DTC and cluster buses (orange) by over 50 per cent. The decision on the issue will be announced by the government in the next one or two days. The new fares would then come into effect from January, a senior official told PTI.

Image Credit: dailymail

The government's move comes a few days after Lt Governor Najeeb Jung had asked the AAP dispensation to work out the modalities of reducing fares of both AC and non-AC buses to promote the use of public transport in the city.

However, new fares will be enforced in both Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses, operated by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS).

Image Credit: drivespark

Last week, the Lt Governor had directed the transport department to reduce bus fares across different slabs for the next two months keeping the winter season in mind as air pollution is on an all-time high during this period.

In Paris, after a spike in pollution, the authorities had recently made public transport free of cost to encourage people to shun private cars, the senior official said, adding that the Delhi government drew inspiration from the move.

(With inputs from PTI)