State Employee Accused of Pulling off Muslim Woman's Hijab
State Employee Accused of Pulling off Muslim Woman's Hijab
Shares                The mayor of New Jersey's largest city is calling for state officials to fire a Department of Labor employee accused of pulling a Muslim woman's hijab off her head and throwing it on the ground. Newark Mayor Ras Baraka says the unidentified Employment Services worker mocked a woman's faith at the city's One-Stop Career Center Dec. 5 before snatching her hijab. Newark police arrested the employee and banned him from the business. Baraka says that's not enough. The mayor believes Essex County prosecutors should have charged the man with a hate crime . He's asked U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman to investigate the incident. A Department of Labor spokesman says the employee has been suspended without pay and the state agency is pursuing his termination in accordance with department policy. ——— This story has been corrected to show the last name of Newark's mayor is Baraka, not Baracka. Shares                  State Employee Accused of Pulling off Muslim Woman's Hijab   The New Tools of Terror: Vehicular Violence at Center of Recent Attacks   29 Dead in Mexican Fireworks Market Explosion: Official   Obama Bans Drilling Indefinitely in Parts of Arctic, Atlantic Oceans   Four More Officials Charged in Flint Water Crisis Debacle   As Drug Overdose Deaths Escalate, Opioids Continue to Be the Top Killer   McConnell Rejects Calls for Select Panel on Russian Meddling   Dog Beaten and Apparently Left for Dead Rescued From Trash   Couple Weds After 41 Years of Dating   Pregnancy May Result in Long-Term Changes to a Woman's Brain   Teachers Start Healthy and Affordable Lunch Swap   2nd-Grader Gives Holiday Presents to Entire School   Military Mom Returns Home to Surprise Daughter at Dance Recital   Obama's Final Hawaiian Vacation as President   Dying Man Who Wed in the Hospital Dies 36 Hours Later   Florida Teacher Inspires Kids to Learn Long Division With Song   Disneyland's Oldest Employee Celebrates 60 Years of Service   'Santa Squirrel' Saved After Bone Is Removed From Its Neck   Artist Creates Henna Crowns for Cancer Patients   911 Call in Road-Rage Case: 'This Little Kid's Been Shot'   Newsweek Reporter Seeks ID of Twitter User After Seizure   Trump Team Distances Family From Conservation Fundraiser   How Ivanka Trump's Possible White House Role Wouldn't Be Unprecedented   'Flip or Flop' Star Says Son Gets Her Through 'Roughest Days'   Amy Schumer Buys Back Her Dad's Farm   Good Samaritans Rescue Man Trapped in Burning Car   Margot Robbie Flashes Ring Amid Marriage Reports   Cindy Crawford Is OK With Not Looking 20 Anymore   Must-Read Books of the 2016 Holiday Season

The mayor of New Jersey's largest city is calling for state officials to fire a Department of Labor employee accused of pulling a Muslim woman's hijab off her head and throwing it on the ground.

Newark Mayor Ras Baraka says the unidentified Employment Services worker mocked a woman's faith at the city's One-Stop Career Center Dec. 5 before snatching her hijab.

Newark police arrested the employee and banned him from the business.

Baraka says that's not enough. The mayor believes Essex County prosecutors should have charged the man with a hate crime. He's asked U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman to investigate the incident.

A Department of Labor spokesman says the employee has been suspended without pay and the state agency is pursuing his termination in accordance with department policy.

———

This story has been corrected to show the last name of Newark's mayor is Baraka, not Baracka.