J.R. Smith Injury: Cavaliers SG Injures Thumb vs. Bucks
J.R. Smith Injury: Cavaliers SG Injures Thumb vs. Bucks
Cleveland Cavaliers shooting guard J.R. Smith suffered a right thumb injury during Tuesday night's game against the Milwaukee Bucks . According to Allie Clifton of Fox Sports Ohio, Smith did not return to Tuesday night's game after suffering the injury during the first half. Joe Vardon of Cleveland.com reported X-rays on the thumb were inconclusive but cautioned it "doesn't sound amazing." ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin and Brian Windhorst reported sources informed them Cleveland "fears the thumb might be broken." The extent of the injury and a timetable for a return have not been disclosed yet. Smith was forced to leave Cleveland's game on Dec. 5 against the Toronto Raptors with a left knee injury, but he avoided a major absence after testing revealed no structural damage. He missed just two games and returned to the floor Dec. 10. A year after he averaged 12.4 points and shot 40.0 percent from three during the Cavaliers' championship campaign, Smith is averaging 8.8 points on 33.7 percent shooting from the field and 35.8 percent from beyond the arc as he's struggled to work his way into a comfortable rhythm.                 Despite struggles in the shooting department, the Cavaliers are a more potent team when he's on the floor. Not only can Smith catch fire in the blink of an eye, but he gives Cleveland an additional knockdown marksman who can thrive when LeBron James and Kyrie Irving collapse the defense and draw the attention of extra defenders. Should Smith miss more time due to injury, look for DeAndre Liggins to slide back into the starting lineup just as he did in early December so that Iman Shumpert can keep his role as a key bench contributor intact.

Cleveland Cavaliers shooting guard J.R. Smith suffered a right thumb injury during Tuesday night's game against the Milwaukee Bucks.

According to Allie Clifton of Fox Sports Ohio, Smith did not return to Tuesday night's game after suffering the injury during the first half.

Joe Vardon of Cleveland.com reported X-rays on the thumb were inconclusive but cautioned it "doesn't sound amazing." ESPN.com's Dave McMenamin and Brian Windhorst reported sources informed them Cleveland "fears the thumb might be broken."

The extent of the injury and a timetable for a return have not been disclosed yet.

Smith was forced to leave Cleveland's game on Dec. 5 against the Toronto Raptors with a left knee injury, but he avoided a major absence after testing revealed no structural damage. He missed just two games and returned to the floor Dec. 10.

A year after he averaged 12.4 points and shot 40.0 percent from three during the Cavaliers' championship campaign, Smith is averaging 8.8 points on 33.7 percent shooting from the field and 35.8 percent from beyond the arc as he's struggled to work his way into a comfortable rhythm.

Despite struggles in the shooting department, the Cavaliers are a more potent team when he's on the floor. Not only can Smith catch fire in the blink of an eye, but he gives Cleveland an additional knockdown marksman who can thrive when LeBron James and Kyrie Irving collapse the defense and draw the attention of extra defenders.

Should Smith miss more time due to injury, look for DeAndre Liggins to slide back into the starting lineup just as he did in early December so that Iman Shumpert can keep his role as a key bench contributor intact.