Here's What Happens When You Accidentally Buy Your Girlfriend 144 Pairs of Fuzzy Socks
Here's What Happens When You Accidentally Buy Your Girlfriend 144 Pairs of Fuzzy Socks
The struggle of figuring out what to buy your loved ones for Christmas is very real. Eighteen-year-old Jackson Wade Knight of Georgia knows this firsthand. His girlfriend had requested some fuzzy socks for the holidays and so Knight ordered a dozen pairs online. He knew something was wrong when the package arrived in the mail. I ordered my girlfriend a dozen pairs of fuzzy socks and they sent me 12 dozen making 144 pairs of fuzzy socks pic.twitter.com/ECSMXdxtdt — Jack (@JacksonWadeK) December 13, 2016 Instead of a single dozen pairs he found 12 dozen pairs, totaling 144 pairs of socks. He rushed to see if he’d been charged extra for the mistake but found he still only paid $27 for the order. “They just messed up the order. Just a happy accident,” he said. The dilemma then became what to do with them all. Knight’s posts to social media about the sock mishap quickly took off on Twitter, and at the time of reporting has 3,000 retweets. @JacksonWadeK honestly best present ever — Hailey Thomas (@HaileyEThomas) December 15, 2016 @JacksonWadeK girlfriend for life – cha-ching — Jen Yo ???????? (@offmana) December 17, 2016 Causally finds my boyfriend on my TL pic.twitter.com/UHLMPAcTut — Haven Ashley (@HavenPrevatt) December 17, 2016 “I know some people were saying I could make a mad profit off them,” he told BuzzFeed, “but I think I’d rather play Santa Claus and either give them to my friends and cousins or go bring them to a homeless shelter.” In an ironic twist, his girlfriend had her own mix-up buying his gift that very same day. She told him she was going to go exchange it, to which he replied: “If you said your gift order got messed up, just wait till you hear about mine.”

The struggle of figuring out what to buy your loved ones for Christmas is very real. Eighteen-year-old Jackson Wade Knight of Georgia knows this firsthand.

His girlfriend had requested some fuzzy socks for the holidays and so Knight ordered a dozen pairs online. He knew something was wrong when the package arrived in the mail.

“There was a really large package,” he told BuzzFeed. “Nothing I ordered should be that big.”

“It was like three feet long and a foot tall. I was like, ‘I wonder what this is?’”

I ordered my girlfriend a dozen pairs of fuzzy socks and they sent me 12 dozen making 144 pairs of fuzzy socks pic.twitter.com/ECSMXdxtdt — Jack (@JacksonWadeK) December 13, 2016





Instead of a single dozen pairs he found 12 dozen pairs, totaling 144 pairs of socks. He rushed to see if he’d been charged extra for the mistake but found he still only paid $27 for the order. “They just messed up the order. Just a happy accident,” he said.

The dilemma then became what to do with them all. Knight’s posts to social media about the sock mishap quickly took off on Twitter, and at the time of reporting has 3,000 retweets.

Reactions online, especially among women, were positive:

@JacksonWadeK honestly best present ever — Hailey Thomas (@HaileyEThomas) December 15, 2016





@JacksonWadeK girlfriend for life – cha-ching — Jen Yo ???????? (@offmana) December 17, 2016





Even his girlfriend chimed in:

Causally finds my boyfriend on my TL pic.twitter.com/UHLMPAcTut — Haven Ashley (@HavenPrevatt) December 17, 2016





“I know some people were saying I could make a mad profit off them,” he told BuzzFeed, “but I think I’d rather play Santa Claus and either give them to my friends and cousins or go bring them to a homeless shelter.”

In an ironic twist, his girlfriend had her own mix-up buying his gift that very same day. She told him she was going to go exchange it, to which he replied: “If you said your gift order got messed up, just wait till you hear about mine.”