The Trailer Of Jagga Jasoos, Arshad Warsi Congratulates Akshay For Jolly LLB 2 And More From Ent
The Trailer Of Jagga Jasoos, Arshad Warsi Congratulates Akshay And More From The World Of Ent!
The Trailer Of Jagga Jasoos, Arshad Warsi Congratulates Akshay For Jolly LLB 2 And More From Ent 1. The trailer of Ranbir-Katrina's is out and the film managed to give us some major nostalgia Apart from Ranbir's look, there are other similarities too. Like, the way Katrina and Ranbir's relationship unfolds in the trailer is what reminded us of Barfi and Jhilmil's equation. However, the story is what makes both the films totally different. revolves around the journey of a teen detective, who is in search of his father and has Katrina, animals and a lot of action. 2. Arshad Warsi, who was replaced by Akshay Kumar in took to Twitter to congratulate Akshay and the team. Finally saw the trailer of Jolly LLB2. Love the new Jolly. Looking forward to it, all the best to @humasqureshi  @akshaykumar & @subkapoor In a rather nice gesture, Arshad Warsi took to Twitter to congratulate Akshay Kumar and the team. 3. Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan welcomed their baby Taimur Ali Khan While the star couple received congratulatory messages from the film fraternity and people close to them, Twitter chose to troll the poor kid for being named as Taimur. 4. After months of release of the film , Anushka Sharma again clarified why her character Aarfa wasn't regressive Talking about the same, Anushka said, "I don't agree with the criticism. The ability to make a choice is also a liberating thing. Are you telling me that there won't be a woman, a feminist, if caught in Aarfa's situation, not chose motherhood over career? The ability to make a choice is a liberating factor, you cannot oversimplify things. It's not like she quit. She returns to wrestling later. I stand by Aarfa's choice. Also, as an actor I play characters and they may not have the same views as me. So, what can I not play those roles?" 5. 2016 was a testing year, glad it's over, says Kangana Ranaut Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut says 2016 was a very 'testing' year for her with lots of ups and downs, and she is happy that it is coming to an end.

1. The trailer of Ranbir-Katrina's Jagga Jasoos is out and the film managed to give us some major Barfi nostalgia

YouTube Screengrab

Apart from Ranbir's look, there are other similarities too. Like, the way Katrina and Ranbir's relationship unfolds in the trailer is what reminded us of Barfi and Jhilmil's equation. However, the story is what makes both the films totally different. Jagga Jasoos revolves around the journey of a teen detective, who is in search of his father and has Katrina, animals and a lot of action.

2. Arshad Warsi, who was replaced by Akshay Kumar in Jolly LLB 2 took to Twitter to congratulate Akshay and the team.

Finally saw the trailer of Jolly LLB2. Love the new Jolly. Looking forward to it, all the best to @humasqureshi @akshaykumar & @subkapoor — Arshad Warsi (@ArshadWarsi) December 20, 2016

In a rather nice gesture, Arshad Warsi took to Twitter to congratulate Akshay Kumar and the team.

3. Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan welcomed their baby Taimur Ali Khan

Twitter

While the star couple received congratulatory messages from the film fraternity and people close to them, Twitter chose to troll the poor kid for being named as Taimur.

4. After months of release of the film Sultan, Anushka Sharma again clarified why her character Aarfa wasn't regressive

Twitter

Talking about the same, Anushka said, "I don't agree with the criticism. The ability to make a choice is also a liberating thing. Are you telling me that there won't be a woman, a feminist, if caught in Aarfa's situation, not chose motherhood over career? The ability to make a choice is a liberating factor, you cannot oversimplify things. It's not like she quit. She returns to wrestling later. I stand by Aarfa's choice. Also, as an actor I play characters and they may not have the same views as me. So, what can I not play those roles?"

5. 2016 was a testing year, glad it's over, says Kangana Ranaut

Twitter

Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut says 2016 was a very 'testing' year for her with lots of ups and downs, and she is happy that it is coming to an end.