James Franco Joins 'Alien: Covenant'
James Franco Joins 'Alien: Covenant'
James Franco , in what might be his latest performance art, has sort of confirmed he’s joining the cast of reported . Franco, who once played an Alien—rather, a rapper Alien—in 2013’s (also featuring East Atlanta Santa Gucci Mane)—has sci-fi experience under his belt, most recently with the series . Franco made the reveal in an interview with HeyUGuys for his latest movie where he plays the boyfriend from hell opposite Bryan Cranston in “The news is out, I guess?” Franco said to the interviewer who asked what it was like joining the franchise. Franco no longer thinking about whether he got “tricked” into spilling the news said he remembered watching the movie as a kid. “It’s such a good movie. It’s so tight, full of tension,” Franco said later adding “It’s great to be part of it.” 220512052104 pic.twitter.com/HkweryZ3Mj 130112062104 pic.twitter.com/xEna3aTK6V (the ​ vP standing for Aliens vs Predator ) first reported Franco’s casting earlier this month, and said Franco would be playing Covenant captain Branson, husband to Katherine Waterston’s character. , in case you didn’t know, will take place 10 years after . The film’s synopsis: “Bound for a remote planet on the far side of the galaxy, the crew of the colony ship Covenant discovers what they think is an uncharted paradise, but is actually a dark, dangerous world—whose sole inhabitant is the 'synthetic' David (Michael Fassbender), survivor of the doomed Prometheus expedition.” Franco joins Michael Fassbender, Katherine Waterston, Billy Crudup, and previous collaborator Danny McBride. will be released on May 19, 2017.

James Franco, in what might be his latest performance art, has sort of confirmed he’s joining the cast of Alien:Covenant, reported Collider. Franco, who once played an Alien—rather, a rapper named Alien—in 2013’s Spring Breakers (also featuring East Atlanta Santa Gucci Mane)—has sci-fi experience under his belt, most recently with the series 11.22.63.

Franco made the reveal in an interview with HeyUGuys for his latest movie where he plays the boyfriend from hell opposite Bryan Cranston in Why Him?

“The news is out, I guess?” Franco said to the interviewer who asked what it was like joining the Alien franchise. Franco no longer thinking about whether he got “tricked” into spilling the news said he remembered watching the movie as a kid. “It’s such a good movie. It’s so tight, full of tension,” Franco said later adding “It’s great to be part of it.”

AvP Galaxy (the ​“AvP” standing for “Aliens vs Predator”) first reported Franco’s casting earlier this month, and said Franco would be playing Covenant captain Branson, husband to Katherine Waterston’s character.

Covenant, in case you didn’t know, will take place 10 years after Prometheus. The film’s synopsis: “Bound for a remote planet on the far side of the galaxy, the crew of the colony ship Covenant discovers what they think is an uncharted paradise, but is actually a dark, dangerous world—whose sole inhabitant is the 'synthetic' David (Michael Fassbender), survivor of the doomed Prometheus expedition.”

Franco joins Michael Fassbender, Katherine Waterston, Billy Crudup, and previous collaborator Danny McBride.

Alien: Covenant will be released on May 19, 2017.