Climate change denier who says no one can explain global warming gets completely schooled by someone explaining it
Climate change denier who says no one can explain global warming gets completely schooled by someone explaining it
Lorrie Goldstein, who writes for the daily tabloid the in Canada, thought it would be a wise move to challenge the science behind climate change and global warming on Twitter of all places. In a tweet posted last week, Goldstein said: "Next time a Social Justice Warrior tells you “science is settled” on global warming, ask them to explain the science. Then watch the fun." Next time a Social Justice Warrior tells you "science is settled" on global warming, ask them to explain the science. Then watch the fun.  Now, for all those people furiously storming towards their keyboards to explain exactly how global warming works, y'all can take a breather, because someone's already done it for you. Toronto based writer, and social media hero, Karen Geier told Goldstein in no uncertain terms exactly how climate change has happened, is happening and the dangers it poses. . @sunlorrie Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (methane, carbon dioxide, etc.) let visible light pass through, but absorb infrared light , @sunlorrie this causes the earth to heat up. The warmer atmosphere emits more infrared light, which tends to be re-absorbed @sunlorrie Since the industrial age began around 1750, atmospheric carbon dioxide has increased by 40% and methane has increased by 150%. . @sunlorrie such increases cause extra infrared light absorption, further heating Earth above its typical temperature range . @sunlorrie (even as energy from the sun stays basically the same).Energy that gets to Earth has an even harder time leaving it . @sunlorrie causing Earth’s average temperature to increase–– producing global climate change. . @sunlorrie emissions are measurable. Temperature changes are measurable. The effects are measurable. . @sunlorrie they lead to the same conclusion. 97% of scientists agree. The standouts have ties to fossil fuel industries. . @sunlorrie there you go, you colossal donut. . @sunlorrie but don’t take 97% of scientist’s word for it, take the people who have been to space’s: https://t.co/ovdtoolSGx . @sunlorrie I mean, I’d tell you to read, but you’re the editor of a paper designed for illiterates  I believe the scientific phrase you're looking for is: "Oh snap!" We're also going to incorporate "you colossal donut" into our everyday insult vocabulary. For those of you who don't like reading composite tweets, here's the entire explainer laid out: Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (methane, carbon dioxide, etc.) let visible light pass through, but absorb infrared light This causes the earth to heat up. The warmer atmosphere emits more infrared light, which tends to be re-absorbed Since the industrial age began around 1750, atmospheric carbon dioxide has increased by 40% and methane has increased by 150%. Such increases cause extra infrared light absorption, further heating Earth above its typical temperature range (even as energy from the sun stays basically the same). Energy that gets to Earth has an even harder time leaving it causing Earth’s average temperature to increase–– producing global climate change. Emissions are measurable. Temperature changes are measurable. The effects are measurable. They lead to the same conclusion. 97% of scientists agree. The standouts have ties to fossil fuel industries. Thanks Karen!                       Keep scrolling for next article

A writer and climage chage denier was schooled on social media... and it was glorious.

Lorrie Goldstein, who writes for the daily tabloid the Toronto Sun in Canada, thought it would be a wise move to challenge the science behind climate change and global warming on Twitter of all places.

In a tweet posted last week, Goldstein said: "Next time a Social Justice Warrior tells you “science is settled” on global warming, ask them to explain the science. Then watch the fun."

Next time a Social Justice Warrior tells you "science is settled" on global warming, ask them to explain the science. Then watch the fun. — Lorrie Goldstein (@sunlorrie) December 9, 2016

Now, for all those people furiously storming towards their keyboards to explain exactly how global warming works, y'all can take a breather, because someone's already done it for you.

Toronto based writer, and social media hero, Karen Geier told Goldstein in no uncertain terms exactly how climate change has happened, is happening and the dangers it poses.

I believe the scientific phrase you're looking for is: "Oh snap!" We're also going to incorporate "you colossal donut" into our everyday insult vocabulary.





For those of you who don't like reading composite tweets, here's the entire explainer laid out:

Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (methane, carbon dioxide, etc.) let visible light pass through, but absorb infrared light This causes the earth to heat up. The warmer atmosphere emits more infrared light, which tends to be re-absorbed Since the industrial age began around 1750, atmospheric carbon dioxide has increased by 40% and methane has increased by 150%. Such increases cause extra infrared light absorption, further heating Earth above its typical temperature range (even as energy from the sun stays basically the same). Energy that gets to Earth has an even harder time leaving it causing Earth’s average temperature to increase–– producing global climate change. Emissions are measurable. Temperature changes are measurable. The effects are measurable. They lead to the same conclusion. 97% of scientists agree. The standouts have ties to fossil fuel industries.

Thanks Karen!

More: Leonardo DiCaprio gave Ivanka Trump his climate change documentary, in case her dad was still confused