Petra Kvitova unable to play tennis for at least six months
Petra Kvitova unable to play tennis for at least six months
Petra Kvitova unable to play tennis for at least six months Updated 1751 GMT (0151 HKT) December 21, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (21 Videos) Story highlights Petra Kvitova unable to play tennis for at least six months Too early to predict when former world No.2 will return to competitive action Kvitova suffered left hand injuries during robbery Petra Kvitova will be unable to play tennis for at least six months after undergoing surgery on "severe" hand injuries sustained in a knife attack, the player's PR manager has told CNN. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH So upset hearing the news about @Petra_Kvitova . Hands down one of the nicest people I've ever met. All my thoughts with her Thinking of you @Petra_Kvitova .. stay strong! We are all with you

Story highlights Petra Kvitova unable to play tennis for at least six months

Too early to predict when former world No.2 will return to competitive action

Kvitova suffered left hand injuries during robbery

(CNN) Petra Kvitova will be unable to play tennis for at least six months after undergoing surgery on "severe" hand injuries sustained in a knife attack, the player's PR manager has told CNN.

But it is still too early to assess when she will be ready for a competitive return.

"The best case scenario is that Petra will be able to play tennis again after six months," Katie Spellman said via email Wednesday, relaying the advice of surgeon Radek Kebrle.

"It is too soon to specify when precisely she can return to competition, but Petra is ready to do everything she can to get back competing at the highest level," Spellman added.

JUST WATCHED Kvitova invites CNN to her training center Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kvitova invites CNN to her training center 05:31

Two-time Wimbledon champion Kvitova had a near four-hour operation on the wounds sustained after she was attacked by a knife-wielding robber in her apartment in the Czech Republic Tuesday.