Kanye West Has Reportedly Canceled The European Leg Of His Saint Pablo Tour
Kanye West Has Reportedly Canceled The European Leg Of His Saint Pablo Tour
Kanye West appears to be on the road to recovery after a brief hospitalization in November, but that doesn't mean he'll be getting back on the road anytime soon. After the cancelation of the U.S. leg of his Saint Pablo Tour, new reports claim that the European leg has also been canceled. According to a report from , West had originally planned to postpone but eventually embark on the second leg of his tour, which mostly hit dates in Europe. These plans have reportedly changed, however, and now the tour will no longer be going forward. He hadn't officially announced dates, but he said earlier this year that he planned to bring the tour to Europe. It's been a rough few weeks for Kanye. After causing a ton of controversy by praising Donald Trump and taking shots at Jay Z, he ended up in the hospital under psychiatric evaluation. His tour was canceled, and rumors started to swirl about the state of his relationship with Kim Kardashian. He was released from the hospital in late November . Since then, he's stirred up even more controversy by showing up at Trump Tower in NYC to meet with Trump. He claimed this was to discuss "multicultural issues," including "bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago." Despite this, he's been the subject of intense backlash online and in celebrity interviews. His fellow G.O.O.D. Music artist John Legend recently claimed that Kanye was used as a "publicity stunt" by Trump, and other musicians have also had harsh reviews for the meeting. At the very least, the canceled tour will give Kanye more time to rest and recover. Hopefully he's feeling better.

Kanye West appears to be on the road to recovery after a brief hospitalization in November, but that doesn't mean he'll be getting back on the road anytime soon. After the cancelation of the U.S. leg of his Saint Pablo Tour, new reports claim that the European leg has also been canceled. According to a report from TMZ, West had originally planned to postpone but eventually embark on the second leg of his tour, which mostly hit dates in Europe. These plans have reportedly changed, however, and now the tour will no longer be going forward. He hadn't officially announced dates, but he said earlier this year that he planned to bring the tour to Europe.

It's been a rough few weeks for Kanye. After causing a ton of controversy by praising Donald Trump and taking shots at Jay Z, he ended up in the hospital under psychiatric evaluation. His tour was canceled, and rumors started to swirl about the state of his relationship with Kim Kardashian.

He was released from the hospital in late November. Since then, he's stirred up even more controversy by showing up at Trump Tower in NYC to meet with Trump. He claimed this was to discuss "multicultural issues," including "bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago." Despite this, he's been the subject of intense backlash online and in celebrity interviews. His fellow G.O.O.D. Music artist John Legend recently claimed that Kanye was used as a "publicity stunt" by Trump, and other musicians have also had harsh reviews for the meeting.

At the very least, the canceled tour will give Kanye more time to rest and recover. Hopefully he's feeling better.