Syrian jihadi parents kiss daughters goodbye in Damascus before she is blown up
Jihadi parents kiss daughters goodbye before girl launches bomb attack


This is the moment jihadi parents kissed their daughters goodbye shortly before one of them walked into a Syrian police station and was blown up by a remote detonator.

Footage shows a male fanatic lecturing the two children, seven and nine, about how to carry out suicide bomb attacks before they are embraced by a woman in a burka.

A short time later, the seven-year-old is thought to have walked into a police station in Syria's capital, Damascus, before being killed in an explosion.

With music in the background and sitting in front of a black and white flag, the ranting extremist holds the girls in his arms as he brainwashes them.

Footage captures the moment jihadi parents kissed their daughters goodbye shortly before one of them walked into a Syrian police station and was blown up by a remote detonator

Both girls say 'Allahu Akbar' before separate footage shows them dressed in coats and woolly hats as they embrace their mother and leave the room

Footage shows a male fanatic lecturing the two children, seven and nine, about how to carry out suicide bomb attacks before they are embraced by a woman in a burka

The seven-year-old is thought to have walked into a police station (pictured) in Syria's capital, Damascus, before being killed in an explosion believed to have been detonated remotely

Both girls then say 'Allahu Akbar' before separate footage shows them dressed in coats and woolly hats as they embrace their mother and leave the room.

A short time later, on December 16, a seven-year-old girl calmly walked into a Damascus police station before being killed in a bomb blast that also injured three officers.

Syrian journalists have reported the two adults as being husband and wife and parents to the two girls. They also linked one of the youngsters to the explosion on Friday.

In one video, the mother repeatedly hugs the seven-year-old, named as Islam, and the older girl, named as Fatima.

A man behind the camera asks the woman why she is sending her daughters to jihad when they are so young.

A short time later, the seven-year-old reportedly walked into a police station in Syria's capital, Damascus, and was killed in an explosion at a police head quarters

It is not yet clear who ordered the attack, but there are local reports that her father was a member of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as al-Qaeda-linked Al-Nusra Front

She replies that 'no one is young when it comes to jihad as every Muslim is supposed to participate in jihad.'

He then prays for Allah to accept the sacrifice the woman is making

In the second video the man believed to be the father asks one of the girls what she is 'going to do today' before she replies that she is going to carry out a suicide bombing in Damascus.

In an apparent reference to the bus evacuation of rebel fighters and residents from Aleppo last week, the man asks one of the children: 'Shouldn’t you leave fighting to the men? Or did all of them flee in the green buses?'.

He later adds: 'You are not going to be afraid because you are going to the Heavens, right?'.

The girl on the left replies simply: 'Yes'.

Both children then say Allah Akbar on the man’s request before he starts saying prayers.

A ranting fanatic teaches his two children to become suicide bombers before kissing them goodbye

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed there had been a blast in Midan but said it could not specify the cause

It is not yet clear which jihadist group was behind the attack. The explosion in the bustling Midan neighbourhood of the Syrian capital wounded three police officers, said the Al-Watan daily, which is close to the government.

'A seven-year-old girl entered the police station, carrying a belt that was detonated from afar,' the paper posted on its Facebook page.

A police source told Al-Watan that the little girl had appeared lost and asked to use the bathroom when the explosives went off.

Although rebel groups have fired rockets and mortar rounds into the capital, explosions inside the city itself are rare.

Syrian state news agency SANA said earlier there were preliminary reports about a 'terrorist explosion at the Midan police station in Damascus'.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed there had been a blast in Midan but said it could not specify the cause.

A police source told Al-Watan that the little girl had appeared lost and asked to use the bathroom before the explosives went off

A news report from the scene showed the girl's remains, which had been blurred out by the television network

Observatory head Rami Abdel Rahman told AFP that 'one woman' was killed in the blast, but it remained unclear whether she was a suicide bomber or a bystander.

In early 2012, a suicide bomber killed 26 people when he blew himself up in Midan. More than 310,000 people have died since Syria's conflict broke out in 2011.

The attack happened in the Syrian capital, President Bashar al-Assad's stronghold of Damascus.

A brutal battle to retake the city of Aleppo appears to have come to an after a ceasefire and evacuation of residents was agreed with rebels.