Explosion at Fireworks Market in Mexico Kills Dozens
Explosion at Fireworks Market in Mexico Kills Dozens
Explosion at Mexican Fireworks Market A passer-by in a car captured the flames, smoke and loud explosions of the blast at an open-air market in Tultepec.      MEXICO CITY — A huge explosion at Mexico ’s largest fireworks market on Tuesday afternoon killed at least 27 people and injured 70, the Mexico State police said. The explosion occurred at about 3 p.m. at the well-known San Pablito fireworks market in Tultepec, a town on the outskirts of Mexico City. A video of the episode captured by a passing driver showed a chain reaction of explosions followed by enormous plumes of smoke. Dozens of ambulances and fire trucks rushed to the site. Warning that the area had not been secured, officials asked people to stay away out of concern that there could be more explosions. Rescue workers continued to search the scene for victims. Fireworks accidents are not uncommon in Mexico, especially during the Christmas season, when families purchase hundreds of fireworks for the holidays. Fireworks are a favored tradition among Mexicans, and markets are filled with small fireworks for children. The explosion at the San Pablito market was the third major blast there in the last 11 years. In 2005 and again in 2006, major explosions took place. While no one was killed in those two episodes, vendor stalls and surrounding areas were damaged. Advertisement Despite that history, the market was certified by the state’s Institute of Pyrotechnics, which just last month described it as “the safest in all of Latin America.” Mexican officials, including President Enrique Peña Nieto and the Mexico State governor, Eruviel Ávila, said the federal and state authorities were working to identify the dead and help the wounded. Officials have asked for a full investigation from the state attorney’s office. Mr. Ávila said “the absolute priority’’ at the moment was treating the injured. He said all medical expenses would be taken care of. Three children who were severely injured, with burns covering as much as 70 percent of their bodies, were transferred to specialized hospitals in Galveston, Tex., he said. Many people were still unaccounted for, Mr. Ávila said. The authorities were working to identify those who had been killed, he said, so they could offer the victims’ families “precise information as soon as possible regarding the people who unfortunately lost their lives.” Mr. Ávila said the production and sale of fireworks would continue and that the state would support those who lost their livelihoods in the explosion. A version of this article appears in print on December 21, 2016, on Page A3 of the with the headline: Dozens Die in Blast at Fireworks Market in Mexico.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Video

MEXICO CITY — A huge explosion at Mexico’s largest fireworks market on Tuesday afternoon killed at least 27 people and injured 70, the Mexico State police said.

The explosion occurred at about 3 p.m. at the well-known San Pablito fireworks market in Tultepec, a town on the outskirts of Mexico City. A video of the episode captured by a passing driver showed a chain reaction of explosions followed by enormous plumes of smoke.

Dozens of ambulances and fire trucks rushed to the site. Warning that the area had not been secured, officials asked people to stay away out of concern that there could be more explosions. Rescue workers continued to search the scene for victims.

Fireworks accidents are not uncommon in Mexico, especially during the Christmas season, when families purchase hundreds of fireworks for the holidays. Fireworks are a favored tradition among Mexicans, and markets are filled with small fireworks for children.

The explosion at the San Pablito market was the third major blast there in the last 11 years. In 2005 and again in 2006, major explosions took place. While no one was killed in those two episodes, vendor stalls and surrounding areas were damaged.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite that history, the market was certified by the state’s Institute of Pyrotechnics, which just last month described it as “the safest in all of Latin America.”

Mexican officials, including President Enrique Peña Nieto and the Mexico State governor, Eruviel Ávila, said the federal and state authorities were working to identify the dead and help the wounded. Officials have asked for a full investigation from the state attorney’s office.

Mr. Ávila said “the absolute priority’’ at the moment was treating the injured. He said all medical expenses would be taken care of.

Three children who were severely injured, with burns covering as much as 70 percent of their bodies, were transferred to specialized hospitals in Galveston, Tex., he said.

Many people were still unaccounted for, Mr. Ávila said. The authorities were working to identify those who had been killed, he said, so they could offer the victims’ families “precise information as soon as possible regarding the people who unfortunately lost their lives.”

Mr. Ávila said the production and sale of fireworks would continue and that the state would support those who lost their livelihoods in the explosion.