Kanye West's European Saint Pablo tour cancelled
Kanye West's European Saint Pablo tour cancelled
ven before the dates were set, Kanye West has cancelled a proposed European leg of his Saint Pablo tour. The US leg of West's tour came to an abrupt halt in November when the rapper was taken to hospital with a reported temporary psychosis caused by sleep deprivation and dehydration. His final shows were marred by late starts and West replacing his performance of songs with angry monologues . Although no European dates had been confirmed, in August West said that he would be bringing his tour, which supports the release of his 2016 album The Life of Pablo, to the continent. He told BBC Radio One DJ and broadcaster Annie Mac: "We're putting together the tour right now, and I'm just excited to play with different kind of melodies [and create] the story of the tour." hen asked if he would be taking the tour to the UK, West said: "Oh yes, definitely. Whenever I'm in London, whenever I'm in Paris or in Germany, I feel an amount of love, respect and appreciation more than when I'm in America.  It's something where people look at musicians like artists." Celebrity website TMZ reports that West's representatives "contacted concert promoter Live Nation and informed them the second leg – which for the most part was European – was officially cancelled." Paris, Germany and the UK were among the planned concert locations. est was released from hospital after a week. Although he made a visit to Trump Tower , home of President-elect Donald Trump, last week, he has since been keeping a low profile.

Even before the dates were set, Kanye West has cancelled a proposed European leg of his Saint Pablo tour.

The US leg of West's tour came to an abrupt halt in November when the rapper was taken to hospital with a reported temporary psychosis caused by sleep deprivation and dehydration. His final shows were marred by late starts and West replacing his performance of songs with angry monologues.

Although no European dates had been confirmed, in August West said that he would be bringing his tour, which supports the release of his 2016 album The Life of Pablo, to the continent. He told BBC Radio One DJ and broadcaster Annie Mac: "We're putting together the tour right now, and I'm just excited to play with different kind of melodies [and create] the story of the tour."