21 Of The Most Trolled Baby Names Of Our Time
21 Of The Most Trolled Baby Names Of Our Time
21 Of The Most Trolled Baby Names Of Our Time In less than 24 hours after he was born, Taimur Ali Khan had already trended and trolled - thanks to those who dug out some history and went on tirades about the name of a boy who wasn't even a day old. Tragically though, Taimur wasn't the only kid who was trolled for his name - there were more, many more. And, being just a few hours old didn't stop these babies from getting trolled thanks to what their folks had named them. Unfair, yes. Trolled, definitely. 1. Taimur - Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan's newly born son 2. Ace Knute - Jessica Simpson's little boy 3. Adira - Rani Mukerji and Aditya Chopra's daughter 4. AbRam - Shah Rukh's son 5. Azad - Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao's son 6. Bluebell Madonna - Geri Halliwell's daughter 7. Ahil - Salman Khan's nephew 8. Czar - Farah Khan and Shirish Kunder's son 9. Bronx Mowgli - Ashlee Simpson and her ex-husband, Pete Wentz's son 10. Blue Ivy - Beyonce and Jay Z's daughter 11. Iqra - Sanjay Dutt and Manyata's daughter 12. Kal El Coppola - Nicholas Cage's son 13. Haroon - Ranvir Shorey and Konkana Sen Sharma son 14. Marquise - rapper 50 Cent's son 15. Nysa - Kajol and Ajay Devgan's daughter 16. Maddox Chivan Thornton - Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's son 17. Rasha - Raveena Tandon and Anil Thadani's daughter 18. Shiloh Nouvel - Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's daughter 19. Ode Mountain - Hunger Games star Jena Malone's son 20. Zeke Zidaan - Arshad Warsi and Maria Goretti's son 21. Zene Zoe - Arshad Warsi and Maria Goretti's daughter Guys, please lets not troll the babies. It's bad enough we do this to grown-ups.

In less than 24 hours after he was born, Taimur Ali Khan had already trended and trolled - thanks to those who dug out some history and went on tirades about the name of a boy who wasn't even a day old. Tragically though, Taimur wasn't the only kid who was trolled for his name - there were more, many more. And, being just a few hours old didn't stop these babies from getting trolled thanks to what their folks had named them. Unfair, yes. Trolled, definitely.

1. Taimur - Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan's newly born son

Bollywood Bubble

2. Ace Knute - Jessica Simpson's little boy

3. Adira - Rani Mukerji and Aditya Chopra's daughter

4. AbRam - Shah Rukh's son

BCCI

5. Azad - Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao's son

6. Bluebell Madonna - Geri Halliwell's daughter

7. Ahil - Salman Khan's nephew

Indian Express

8. Czar - Farah Khan and Shirish Kunder's son

9. Bronx Mowgli - Ashlee Simpson and her ex-husband, Pete Wentz's son

10. Blue Ivy - Beyonce and Jay Z's daughter

E!

11. Iqra - Sanjay Dutt and Manyata's daughter

12. Kal El Coppola - Nicholas Cage's son

13. Haroon - Ranvir Shorey and Konkana Sen Sharma son

abplive.in

14. Marquise - rapper 50 Cent's son

15. Nysa - Kajol and Ajay Devgan's daughter

16. Maddox Chivan Thornton - Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's son

kupdates.com

17. Rasha - Raveena Tandon and Anil Thadani's daughter

18. Shiloh Nouvel - Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's daughter

19. Ode Mountain - Hunger Games star Jena Malone's son

Just Jared; E!

20. Zeke Zidaan - Arshad Warsi and Maria Goretti's son

21. Zene Zoe - Arshad Warsi and Maria Goretti's daughter

Celebrity family wiki

Guys, please lets not troll the babies. It's bad enough we do this to grown-ups.