Elon Musk
Elon Musk
Sigh of Relief for Self-Driving Cars as Tesla Cleared in Probe How Much Is a Trump Friendship Worth? For Tesla Shares, Up to 30% SpaceX Successfully Launches Rocket, Deploying 10 Satellites Tesla Unveils Pricing Structure for Supercharging Stations Tesla’s Autopilot Head Departs With Hiring of Apple Engineer The Prince and the Martian: An Energy Fable Tesla Needs to Get Out the Vote Tesla's Pie Looks a Bit Crumbly Poland’s Populist Turn Sanctions Standoff in Ukraine Saudi Aramco

The Situation

By any measure, Musk's companies are under stress. In May, a driver of a Tesla sedan engaged in autopilot mode crashed and died, prompting close scrutiny of the technology, although federal regulators closed their investigation without ordering a recall. Tesla, which delivered roughly 50,000 cars in 2015 and aims to make 500,000 a year by 2018, is building a massive factory for battery production east of Reno, Nevada, and is working on not just the mass market Model 3 but an electric semi-truck and transit bus. It still struggles, however, to manufacture cars at expected rates. Musk's proposal for Tesla to acquire SolarCity faced criticism and shareholder lawsuits, but was approved by stakeholders of both companies, a win for Musk’s vision of Tesla as one-stop shopping for consumers eager to become independent of fossil fuels. SpaceX suffered a mysterious rocket explosion on the launchpad Sept. 1 that has put the company’s future in a precarious position.

Source: Bloomberg

The Background

Born in South Africa in 1971, Musk moved to Canada at age 17 before attending the University of Pennsylvania. In 1995, he and his brother Kimbal started Zip2, an online publishing business, and then founded a company that merged with a rival to form PayPal, which was sold to EBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion. Musk plowed his share into new ventures. In 2008, both Tesla and SpaceX were days away from collapsing, and Musk was forced to borrow money from his friends. As General Motors and Chrysler filed for bankruptcy amid a global economic crisis, he convinced investors to put more money in Tesla. Next up, he persuaded NASA to give SpaceX and its still-wobbly rockets a try. After four more years of clever engineering, good luck and sheer force of will, Tesla and SpaceX reached somewhat stable footing. In 2012, Tesla produced the all-electric Model S, a high-performance sedan which even skeptics in Detroit hailed as possibly the best car ever built. SpaceX docked a rocket with the International Space Station and SolarCity went public.

Elon Musk Profiled: Bloomberg Risk Takers

The Argument

Musk’s current problems are less dire than those he faced in 2008, but Tesla, SpaceX and SolarCity are no longer experiments. Failure now would put thousands of jobs and billions of dollars at risk, and SpaceX has become crucial not just to the U.S. space program but also to countries and companies around the world hoping to put up satellites. Musk's supporters say he has built up enough credibility and has enough star power to raise money with relative ease or to be bailed out by one of his many ultrarich friends who share his aspirations. Just on technological merits, Musk’s companies have already changed the world. To the extent that the electric car is a commercial reality, it’s largely thanks to Tesla. While it receives less attention, SpaceX and the revitalization of the U.S. aerospace industry may be Musk’s most stirring accomplishment. But at every point where his companies seem to be on stable footing, Musk takes on more and promises more, erasing the memory of past gains. The question is whether Musk can continue to operate on the edge of what’s possible — the key to his achievements so far.

The Reference Shelf

( This QuickTake contains a corrected reference in the graphic chronology to Musk's role at Tesla in 2004. )

To receive a free monthly QuickTake newsletter, sign up at bloombergbriefs.com/quicktake

To contact the writers of this QuickTake:

Ashlee Vance in Palo Alto at avance3@bloomberg.net

Dana Hull in San Francisco at dhull12@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this QuickTake:

John O'Neil at joneil18@bloomberg.net