Why Yogurt Is Giving General Mills A Sour Taste In Its Mouth
Why Yogurt Is Giving General Mills A Sour Taste In Its Mouth
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. has a case of yogurt-induced indigestion. The company reported lower than expected second quarter earnings results Tuesday -- in part because of continued declines from its line of Yoplait yogurts. General Mills reported $4.1 billion in second quarter revenue, a figure that marks a 7% drop year-over-year and fell just under the $4.19 billion Wall Street consensus. Net earnings for the quarter fell 9% to $481.8 million, or 80 cents per share. Excluding one-time items, the company recorded 85 cents in second quarter earnings per share, missing the analyst consensus by three cents a share. Company execs attributed the top-line sales decline to volume reductions in its U.S. and international segments -- and in both of these areas, yogurt was a pain point. In the U.S., gains in Homegrown products and Totino's frozen snacks were offset by diminished Yoplait, Pillsbury Progresso "On yogurt, we continued to see challenging performance in the second quarter with retail sales down 18% and our Light and Greek 100 varieties driving the majority of those declines," Jeff Harmening, president and COO, said during a conference call Tuesday morning. "Retail sales for the yogurt category also turned negative in the quarter as elevated levels of merchandising generated less incremental lift and as the level of new products news slowed." Yoplait sales are down, which is causing trouble for General Mills. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) For a company that is perhaps best known for its cereal segment, yogurt accounts for a significant part of overall General Mills sales. In fiscal 2016, the division brought in $2.8 billion, or 16% of total sales. However, the $2.8 billion marked a 7% decline from sales recorded during fiscal 2015, leading company executives to conclude that the segment was in need of revitalization. In a July presentation to investors, General Mills emphasized the need to "renovate and innovate" its yogurt business and pledged to makeover 60% of its yogurt portfolio. Plans included an intensified focus on the "Greek 2% Whips!" product as a way of appealing to consumers who prefer Greek yogurt to lighter yogurt. " But in the five months since releasing the yogurt revitalization plan, the gap between Yoplait and Greek yogurt sales has not much improved. As this analysis from RBC's David Palmer shows, even as the price differential between Greek yogurt and Yoplait has grown, Yoplait volumes have gone down: Source: RBC In the analysis, released last week, Palmer lowered General Mills' stock rating to sector perform from outperform and lowered its price target to $69 per share, from $73. "While center-store food category sales trends have broadly eroded, it appears that Mills’ yogurt declines -- as well as cereal, soup, and dough -- are too much to overcome near-term," he wrote, going on to say that "the recent deterioration in yogurt has been concerning—especially since it has coincided with lower competitive price pressure." It's worth noting that General Mills isn't entirely unique in its yogurt troubles. On Monday, French dairy giant put out a revised 2016 guidance, saying that Activia's performance and market conditions in Spain have led it to lower its expectations for 2016 sales growth. And as this chart from RBC shows, yogurt sales have decelerated across manufacturers. This is what the trend-line has done since early 2013: Source: RBC But Danone has managed to keep its yogurt sales in the black, as has WhiteWave (with whom Danone will soon merge ). General Mills, on the other hand, has struggled, posting consistent declines since mid-2015. We expect some improvement in the second half, but won't return to growth this year." Following the release of its second quarter earnings results and its conference call with analysts and investors, shares of General Mills opened in negative territory and stayed there through midday activity. The stock is currently down 3.3%. Year-to-date, the stock is up 5.75%.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

has a case of yogurt-induced indigestion. The company reported lower than expected second quarter earnings results Tuesday -- in part because of continued declines from its line of Yoplait yogurts.

General Mills reported $4.1 billion in second quarter revenue, a figure that marks a 7% drop year-over-year and fell just under the $4.19 billion Wall Street consensus. Net earnings for the quarter fell 9% to $481.8 million, or 80 cents per share. Excluding one-time items, the company recorded 85 cents in second quarter earnings per share, missing the analyst consensus by three cents a share.

Company execs attributed the top-line sales decline to volume reductions in its U.S. and international segments -- and in both of these areas, yogurt was a pain point. In the U.S., gains in Homegrown products and Totino's frozen snacks were offset by diminished Yoplait, Pillsbury refrigerated dough, and Progresso soup sales. In Europe, strong Haagen-Dazs ice cream sales were offset by weakness in Yoplait products.

"On yogurt, we continued to see challenging performance in the second quarter with retail sales down 18% and our Light and Greek 100 varieties driving the majority of those declines," Jeff Harmening, president and COO, said during a conference call Tuesday morning. "Retail sales for the yogurt category also turned negative in the quarter as elevated levels of merchandising generated less incremental lift and as the level of new products news slowed."

For a company that is perhaps best known for its cereal segment, yogurt accounts for a significant part of overall General Mills sales. In fiscal 2016, the division brought in $2.8 billion, or 16% of total sales. However, the $2.8 billion marked a 7% decline from sales recorded during fiscal 2015, leading company executives to conclude that the segment was in need of revitalization. In a July presentation to investors, General Mills emphasized the need to "renovate and innovate" its yogurt business and pledged to makeover 60% of its yogurt portfolio. Plans included an intensified focus on the "Greek 2% Whips!" product as a way of appealing to consumers who prefer Greek yogurt to lighter yogurt.

"We underindex in Greek and overindex in traditional light yogurt, which has been a significant headwind," Harmening said at the time. (Greek yogurt is thicker in consistency and contains more protein than its light-yogurt counterparts, leading the variety to surge in popularity in recent years.)

But in the five months since releasing the yogurt revitalization plan, the gap between Yoplait and Greek yogurt sales has not much improved. As this analysis from RBC's David Palmer shows, even as the price differential between Greek yogurt and Yoplait has grown, Yoplait volumes have gone down:

In the analysis, released last week, Palmer lowered General Mills' stock rating to sector perform from outperform and lowered its price target to $69 per share, from $73.

"While center-store food category sales trends have broadly eroded, it appears that Mills’ yogurt declines -- as well as cereal, soup, and dough -- are too much to overcome near-term," he wrote, going on to say that "the recent deterioration in yogurt has been concerning—especially since it has coincided with lower competitive price pressure."

It's worth noting that General Mills isn't entirely unique in its yogurt troubles. On Monday, French dairy giant put out a revised 2016 guidance, saying that Activia's performance and market conditions in Spain have led it to lower its expectations for 2016 sales growth. And as this chart from RBC shows, yogurt sales have decelerated across manufacturers. This is what the trend-line has done since early 2013:

But Danone has managed to keep its yogurt sales in the black, as has WhiteWave (with whom Danone will soon merge). General Mills, on the other hand, has struggled, posting consistent declines since mid-2015.

"We know we have a good deal of work to do to turn around our yogurt business," Harmening acknowledged Tuesday. "We expect some improvement in the second half, but won't return to growth this year."

Following the release of its second quarter earnings results and its conference call with analysts and investors, shares of General Mills opened in negative territory and stayed there through midday activity. The stock is currently down 3.3%. Year-to-date, the stock is up 5.75%.