Berlin market attack suspect a Tunisian man with links to Islamist network, German minister says



Berlin market attack suspect a Tunisian man with links to Islamist network, German minister says

Updated

A Europe-wide search has been launched for a Tunisian man who has been identified as the main suspect wanted over this week's truck attack in Berlin, which killed 12 and injured 48 others.

Key points: IS has called the person responsible a "soldier of the Islamic State"

Federal Interior Minister cautious about releasing details of new suspect

Europe-wide search for perpetrator has been launched

Anis Amri, 24, was named by the Federal Prosecutor's Office as the man being sought by authorities.

German ministers said Amri, whose identity papers were found in the truck used in the attack, was known to security agencies and had links to Islamist militants.

The prosecutor's office said a search for Amri was underway, with support from police forces in all of Germany's 16 federal states.

"Anis Amri is 178cm tall and weighs about 75kg, has black hair and brown eyes," the office said in the statement.

"Beware: He could be violent and armed!"

German police raided two apartments in Berlin's neighbourhood of Kreuzberg on Wednesday (local time), but did not find Amri, Die Welt newspaper reported, citing investigators.

It said investigators believed that Amri may have been in one of the two apartments.

Police forces had to overpower a man at one of the apartments, the paper said. It gave no further information.

Germany has offered a reward of 100,000 euros ($140,000) for information leading to the arrest of the Tunisian.

The Islamic State (IS) group has claimed responsibility for the attack on the Christmas market next to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church in the centre of the capital.

North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) Interior Minister Ralf Jaeger said the suspected attacker had applied for asylum in Germany and his application was rejected in July because he had links to terrorism.

"Security agencies exchanged their findings and information about this person with the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre in November 2016," Mr Jaeger said.

Attempts to deport the man to Tunisia failed as he did not have identification papers, and the Tunisian authorities disputed whether he was their national.

German authorities started the process of getting new identity papers in August 2016.

"The papers weren't issued for a long time ... they arrived today," Mr Jaeger said.

Jailed in Italy for burning school

Amri had moved from NRW to Berlin in February 2016 and sought to make the German capital his new home, Mr Jaeger said, adding that the Tunisian man sought by police had used different names.

Amri left Tunisia seven years ago as an illegal immigrant and spent time in prison in Italy, his father and security sources told Tunisia's Radio Mosaique.

The radio reported on its website that Amri was from Oueslatia in rural central Tunisia. He served four years in jail in Italy on accusations of burning a school, it said.

The father told the radio station that his son left for Germany a year ago.

Soon after the attack, police arrested a Pakistani man found about one kilometre from the market who matched witness descriptions of the truck's driver, but they released him the next day, saying they did not have evidence tying him to the attack.

Police in Berlin said they have received 508 tips on the attack up until Tuesday night (local time), but there was no immediate word from prosecutors on whether they had any concrete leads.

They also did not say if they were looking for more than one suspect.

The claim of responsibility by IS's Amaq news agency did not identify the man seen fleeing from the truck, but described him as "a soldier of the Islamic State" who "carried out the attack in response to calls for targeting citizens of the crusader coalition".

Questions over whether attacker had support

Germany's top prosecutor Peter Frank said before the claim that the attack was reminiscent of July's deadly truck rampage in Nice, France, and appeared to follow instructions published by IS.

"We don't know for sure whether it was one or several perpetrators," he said.

"We don't know for sure whether he, or they, had support."

Berlin Mayor Michael Mueller said it was "good to see that Berliners aren't being intimidated".

"I don't think there's any need to be afraid," he told ZDF television.

"The police presence has been significantly heightened … and of course other measures taken to find the perpetrator quickly."

Mr Mueller argued that there are limits to increasing security, given the number of public spaces and events.

"It wouldn't be our free and open life any more if we escalated security measures so much that people worry about going anywhere, that there are strict entry checks," he said.

"We don't want that. It must be appropriate and goal-oriented."

Referring to security measures, he added: "A lot has happened, and more certainly will."

AP

Topics: crime, law-crime-and-justice, terrorism, unrest-conflict-and-war, germany

First posted