Man Sues McDonald's, Claims 2-Cheeseburger Value Meal Is a Ripoff

Man Sues McDonald's, Claims 2-Cheeseburger Value Meal Is a Ripoff // // Lawsuit: 2-cheeseburger @McDonalds Extra Value Meal is 41 cents more than items bought individually https://t.co/dFpBRs1PsN — Daily Herald (@dailyherald) December 20, 2016 McDonald's is known for its catchy slogan "I'm Lovin' It." But one unhappy customer in suburban Chicago is not exactly "lovin'" the price of so-called "Extra Value Meals." James Gertie is suing McDonald's restaurants in two Illinois counties, claiming cheeseburger Extra Value Meals are more expensive than when the items are purchased separately. Gertie said that purchasing the Extra Value Meal of two cheeseburgers, medium fries and a soft drink costs $5.90, which is 41 cents more than when the items are bought individually. "The reason that I am doing this is not about the 41 cents," Gertie told the Arlington Heights Daily Herald . "It's because of the principle. A value meal is supposed to be a cheaper price. That's the whole point of a 'value' meal. I believe in the principle of true advertising. If a company advertises something to be a value, then that is what it should be." A man in Illinois has sued McDonald's, saying 2 cheeseburgers, medium fry & soda cost 41 cents less than "Extra Value Meal" with same items. — Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) December 21, 2016 @darrenrovell Why? The "Extra Value" was for McDonalds. — Oracle of Wall St (@OracleofWallSt) December 21, 2016 Gertie is seeking class-action status for consumer fraud and deceptive practices. So is this lawsuit worth it for the 41 cents? Tell us what you think in the comments section.

Lawsuit: 2-cheeseburger @McDonalds Extra Value Meal is 41 cents more than items bought individually https://t.co/dFpBRs1PsN — Daily Herald (@dailyherald) December 20, 2016

WATCH: Ohio Elector Burns All the Anti-Trump Letters He Received

Police Officer Helps College Student Tie Necktie After Pulling Him Over

Officer, Basketball Coach Save Teen's Life After He Collapses on Court

McDonald's is known for its catchy slogan "I'm Lovin' It."

But one unhappy customer in suburban Chicago is not exactly "lovin'" the price of so-called "Extra Value Meals."

James Gertie is suing McDonald's restaurants in two Illinois counties, claiming cheeseburger Extra Value Meals are more expensive than when the items are purchased separately.

Gertie said that purchasing the Extra Value Meal of two cheeseburgers, medium fries and a soft drink costs $5.90, which is 41 cents more than when the items are bought individually.

"The reason that I am doing this is not about the 41 cents," Gertie told the Arlington Heights Daily Herald. "It's because of the principle. A value meal is supposed to be a cheaper price. That's the whole point of a 'value' meal. I believe in the principle of true advertising. If a company advertises something to be a value, then that is what it should be."

A man in Illinois has sued McDonald's, saying 2 cheeseburgers, medium fry & soda cost 41 cents less than "Extra Value Meal" with same items. — Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) December 21, 2016

@darrenrovell Why? The "Extra Value" was for McDonalds. — Oracle of Wall St (@OracleofWallSt) December 21, 2016

Gertie is seeking class-action status for consumer fraud and deceptive practices.

So is this lawsuit worth it for the 41 cents? Tell us what you think in the comments section.

Intense Footage Captures Fireworks Blast That Killed 31, Injured Dozens in Mexico

Sheriff Excitedly Shames a 'Grinch' Who Stole From Toys for Tots

WATCH: Ailing Marine Vet Gives Trump, Gen. Mattis One Final Salute