Report: Trump Considering New Names for VA Secretary

Report: Trump Considering New Names for VA Secretary // // // President-elect Donald Trump has just two cabinet positions left to fill : Agriculture secretary and secretary of Veterans Affairs. Some new names are reportedly now in the running for heading up the VA. Peter Doocy reported on "America's Newsroom" today that Trump recently met with Cleveland Clinic CEO Dr. Toby Cosgrove and IQ Management Services CEO Luis Quinonez to discuss the position. Cosgrove, a heart surgeon and a Vietnam veteran, was previously considered to head the troubled department by President Obama in 2014. Quinonez, also a Vietnam veteran, has long been active in Republican Party politics. His company, IQ Management Services, provides health care services to the military Doocy reported that Trump is also considering U.S. Navy Admiral Michelle Howard, who was the first black woman to command a Navy ship, and Fox News contributor Pete Hegseth, CEO of Concerned Veterans for America and a former Army National Guard captain. Other candidates mentioned in connection with the VA post are Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL), former Sen. Scott Brown (R-MA) and retired Admiral Thad Allen. In addition to two cabinet positions - VA secretary and Agriculture secretary - Trump still needs to fill several other top administration posts, including director of National Intelligence, White House press secretary and U.S. trade representative. Watch Doocy's report above, and keep up-to-date with the latest on the .

Brigitte Gabriel: Chancellor Merkel 'Reaping What She's Sown

O'Reilly: The 'Hidden Reason' the Left Wants to Abolish Electoral College

Krauthammer: 'Poetic Justice' That Hillary Sets 'Faithless Elector' Record

President-elect Donald Trump has just two cabinet positions left to fill: Agriculture secretary and secretary of Veterans Affairs.

Some new names are reportedly now in the running for heading up the VA.

Peter Doocy reported on "America's Newsroom" today that Trump recently met with Cleveland Clinic CEO Dr. Toby Cosgrove and IQ Management Services CEO Luis Quinonez to discuss the position.

Cosgrove, a heart surgeon and a Vietnam veteran, was previously considered to head the troubled department by President Obama in 2014.

Quinonez, also a Vietnam veteran, has long been active in Republican Party politics. His company, IQ Management Services, provides health care services to the military

Doocy reported that Trump is also considering U.S. Navy Admiral Michelle Howard, who was the first black woman to command a Navy ship, and Fox News contributor Pete Hegseth, CEO of Concerned Veterans for America and a former Army National Guard captain.

Other candidates mentioned in connection with the VA post are Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL), former Sen. Scott Brown (R-MA) and retired Admiral Thad Allen.

In addition to two cabinet positions - VA secretary and Agriculture secretary - Trump still needs to fill several other top administration posts, including director of National Intelligence, White House press secretary and U.S. trade representative.

Watch Doocy's report above, and keep up-to-date with the latest on the Trump transition.

Officials: 22 Gitmo Detainees May Be Transferred Before Trump Takes Office

VIDEO: 'The Bandits Will Feel This': Putin Vows Revenge For Assassinated Diplomat

Rep. Kinzinger: Gitmo Must Remain Open as Long as War on Terror Is Ongoing