Train drivers in Southern rail dispute accused of ‘faking’ malfunctions to justify strikes
Train drivers in Southern rail dispute accused of ‘faking’ malfunctions to justify strikes
rain drivers locked in an industrial dispute about who closes carriage doors have been accused of "faking" technology malfunctions to boost their case for strike action . Southern Rail has in recent months seen a spike in claims that cameras allowing drivers to shut doors on their own are breaking down. Every time a fault is alleged the train needs to be taken out of service, causing transport misery for thousands of commuters. However, ministers have now revealed that when the supposed faults are investigated engineers keep finding that there is nothing wrong. t has triggered claims that drivers - backed up by militant unions - are making up problems to portray driver-operated door technology as unreliable. Nick Herbert, the Tory MP for Arundel and South Downs, said: "If claims are being falsified it is outrageous and the drivers have serious questions to answer. “Their cynical political campaign is going too far and it is commuters who are bearing the brunt.” But senior union figures representing the drivers hit back, saying the cameras are “not reliable and not safe” and should not be rolled out. The row gets to the heart of an industrial dispute under which train services used by 300,000 a day grind to a halt due to a wave of strikes. Currently around 800 services on Southern Rail are operated by drivers who use cameras feeds by their seats to open and close doors alone. The company wants to extend that to most of its 2,300 services but has come up against intense opposition from unions representing train workers. The unions claim giving drivers instead of conductors the power to close doors would be dangerous, but critics say it has been proven safe and the opposition is politically motivated. omplaints that the cameras used for driver-operated doors are malfunctioning have soared in recent week as the dispute intensified, according to industry sources. One source said there are now 10 or more complaints about the technology a month compared to just a handful earlier in the year. Yet Paul Maynard, the rail minister, has revealed that every time engineers are called in to investigate the alleged malfunctions the technology appears to be working fine. “Officials have discussed camera failures with Southern, who confirmed that there has been a noticeable increase in camera defects reported. However, when investigated, no faults have been found by technical teams,” he said in response to a parliamentary written question this month. The remarks have triggered claims that the malfunctions are being fabricated. “They are faking train failures to further their political campaign and passengers pay the price,” an industry source claimed. r Herbert, whose constituents have been affected by strikes, said: “It is all part of a deliberate campaign by the unions to disrupt the service in between strike days so that Southern gets the blame. “The safety claims are completely bogus. After all, these drivers have been operating the same trains without guards opening the doors for years.” Graham Morris, Aslef’s organiser on Southern Railways, said: “Chris Grayling and Paul Maynard keep banging on about the new equipment on the new trains on Thameslink. But the old technology we’re talking about are the old cameras on the 15-year-old trains on Southern. “They’re not reliable, and not safe, because they don’t always work; or work properly. And it’s not just the equipment itself, it’s the stations along the line. “Weather conditions, too, affect what a driver can – and cannot – see. As can the lighting, and whether the train is, or is not, stopped under a canopy. The truth, whatever the ministers say, is that drivers do not have a proper view of all the doors.” A union source added that they did not “for one moment” believe the claim that drivers were faking camera faults.

It has triggered claims that drivers - backed up by militant unions - are making up problems to portray driver-operated door technology as unreliable.

Nick Herbert, the Tory MP for Arundel and South Downs, said: "If claims are being falsified it is outrageous and the drivers have serious questions to answer.

“Their cynical political campaign is going too far and it is commuters who are bearing the brunt.”

But senior union figures representing the drivers hit back, saying the cameras are “not reliable and not safe” and should not be rolled out.

The row gets to the heart of an industrial dispute under which train services used by 300,000 a day grind to a halt due to a wave of strikes.

Currently around 800 services on Southern Rail are operated by drivers who use cameras feeds by their seats to open and close doors alone.

The company wants to extend that to most of its 2,300 services but has come up against intense opposition from unions representing train workers.

The unions claim giving drivers instead of conductors the power to close doors would be dangerous, but critics say it has been proven safe and the opposition is politically motivated.