MTV Faces Backlash for 'Resolutions for White Guys' Video

MTV Faces Backlash for 'Resolutions for White Guys' Video // // // // MTV is facing a social media backlash over a video entitled "2017 New Years Resolutions for White Guys," which called on white men to do "a little better" next year. Here were some of the resolutions... "Try to recognize that America was never 'great' for anyone who wasn't a white guy," a young woman said. "Blue Lives Matter isn't a thing. Cops weren't born with blue skin, right?" was another resolution. Also white guys should learn about "man-splaining" and stop doing that, another young woman suggests. Critics of the video called it "racist," while supporters agreed that white men should take this advice. On "Fox & Friends" this morning, author Crystal Wright said MTV should "give up" with this kind of identity politics. She questioned whether MTV would ever release a video to black men about rampant violence in inner cities. "Would we ever see a video like that from MTV? No. You know why, guys? That would be racist," she argued. Wright agreed that white men have become a "punching bag" for the liberal left this year and it's getting worse following the election of Donald Trump as president. Watch the clip and her commentary above.

MTV is facing a social media backlash over a video entitled "2017 New Years Resolutions for White Guys," which called on white men to do "a little better" next year.

Here were some of the resolutions...

"Try to recognize that America was never 'great' for anyone who wasn't a white guy," a young woman said.

"Blue Lives Matter isn't a thing. Cops weren't born with blue skin, right?" was another resolution.

Also white guys should learn about "man-splaining" and stop doing that, another young woman suggests.

Critics of the video called it "racist," while supporters agreed that white men should take this advice.

On "Fox & Friends" this morning, author Crystal Wright said MTV should "give up" with this kind of identity politics.

She questioned whether MTV would ever release a video to black men about rampant violence in inner cities.

"Would we ever see a video like that from MTV? No. You know why, guys? That would be racist," she argued.

Wright agreed that white men have become a "punching bag" for the liberal left this year and it's getting worse following the election of Donald Trump as president.

Watch the clip and her commentary above.

WATCH: Ailing Marine Vet Gives Trump, Gen. Mattis One Final Salute

'This Is My America!': Enraged Anti-Trump Protester Goes Off on WI Electors

WATCH: Ohio Elector Burns All the Anti-Trump Letters He Received

WATCH: College Students Sign Petition to Ban Christmas on Campus