17 Damn Good Albums From 2016
17 Damn Good Albums From 2016
In no particular order. Rihanna — , no more easy to pin down than its divinely self-assured creator, found Rihanna playing to each of her disparate strengths: savage sex symbol (“Needed Me,” “Sex With Me”), hopeless romantic (“Love on the Brain”), boundlessly inventive vocal stylist (“Consideration”). In “Work,” it gave us an instantly iconic pop love song perfectly attuned to its time — emotionally and psychically punctured, but still bobbing upstream. “ Consideration “ Frank Ocean — Ocean’s long-awaited and dazzlingly layered return to music plays like a series of interrelated, impressionistic sketches on the profound and the profane. The preternaturally gifted songwriter uses ethereal organs, dreamy guitar, and a drawerful of voice effects to conjure ghosts of longing and alienation — from his peers, from his romantic partners, and from his god. On ’s soulful highlights including “Ivy,” “Pink + White,” and “Self Control,” he’s an unflinching excavator of his own conflicting emotions, turning the rawest of materials into luminous mosaics. “ Self Control “ Beyoncé — No other musician alive is this popular and this fearless, this polished and this giving, this accomplished and this hungry. The songs on — setting aside the stunning hour-long film that accompanied them — will break your heart and put it back together again, claiming yet new emotional territory for Beyoncé’s reliably innovative pop craft. “ Sorry “ Michael Kiwanuka — Though it was less heralded than some others on this list, few albums released this year (or in any recent year) simply as gorgeous as does. Kiwanuka’s voice, a balmy update of Bill Withers (with a splash of Damon Albarn), could melt the most frigid of hearts. And his formidable backing band — including a full string section and choir — imbues his aching soul songs with cinematic grandeur. An ambitious leap from his more reverent but critically acclaimed 2012 debut , feels classic while deftly sidestepping staid revivalism. In the modern, internet-enabled tradition of cultural sampling, it synthesizes ’60s psych rock, ’70s soul, ’90s Brit-pop, Afrobeat, and gospel into something both timeless and forward-looking. “ Love & Hate “ Solange — goes down like a sweet tonic. Deeply personal and unapologetically political, the album’s great thematic triumph is a concerted response to the problems of racial and sexist oppression rooted in self-actualization and communal empowerment, rather than righteous rage or blind hope. It’s a balm for when the world has you weary, and a reminder of music’s power to both clarify suffering and put it in due perspective. “ Cranes in the Sky “ David Bowie — Bowie’s final album appeared suddenly and miraculously just two days before his death from liver cancer (which he suffered privately, never having made a public announcement about his disease). was a fittingly adventurous capstone to a legendarily eclectic career. Created with the help of a New York jazz ensemble, its loose, madcap energy is the last testament of a fervently restless soul. Single “Lazarus,” the album’s most overt elegy, is unforgettable. “ Lazarus “ Chance The Rapper — Of all the ways defied convention — its lack of a record label, its streaming-only release, its self-professed classification as a “mixtape” — by far the most improbable, and impressive, came via the music itself. Chance found a holy trinity in transregional pluralism (“Mixtape,” “Smoke Break”), misty-eyed nostalgia (“Summer Friends,” “Same Drugs”), and the Christian spiritual joy of gospel music (pretty much the full tracklist), overturning all existing models of what a mainstream rap star should sound like. In a year when new heroes weren’t always in great supply, Chance was a breath of fresh air. “ All Night “ Anderson .Paak — One of the true breakout stars of 2016, Anderson .Paak was seemingly everywhere — a distinctive, soulful presence on eclectic albums from A Tribe Called Quest, Mac Miller, Kaytranada, Chance the Rapper, Schoolboy Q, and others. , his first solo full-length since his anointing as The Next Big Thing by Dr. Dre on last year’s , is a zig-zagging introduction to the singer and multi-instrumentalist’s omnivorous brand of neo-funk. The breezy “Am I Wrong,” with its thick slabs of bass and exuberant horn outro, bottles the blue-sky, carefree spirit of the album’s namesake beach town into an instant mood-booster. “ Am I Wrong “ Young Thug — Hip-hop’s most inexhaustibly prolific, persistently inventive, effortlessly influential ATLien dropped three projects this year ( in February, in August), but March’s is the banger. Just eight songs, it knocks from start to finish, with delirious highs (“Drippin,” “Digits,”) that capture Thug at his propulsive, playful best. “ Drippin “ Bruno Mars — Bruno Mars is very hard not to like, and demonstrates why. There’s little here that we could call new or progressive, but Mars’s refashioned, pop-facing R&B jams are so slyly and skillfully rendered, so eager to please, that resistance becomes an exercise in futility. In 2016, the ’80s and ’90s party pop of “24K Magic” and “That’s What I Like” offered exactly the kind of uncomplicated feel-good vibes we needed. “ That’s What I Like “ A Tribe Called Quest — A tribute to late founding member Phife Dawg (“The Five Foot Assassin”), and so much more, the unexpected final Tribe album is brimming with urgency and verve. Rather than retread the laid-back funk and jazz of their youth, Q-Tip, Phife, Ali Shaheed Muhammad, and Jarobi flank their bass-heavy beats with stentorian rock and industrial sounds, jettisoning any notions of going gently into the good night. The posthumous voice of Phife, who died in March after a long battle with diabetes but recorded several verses for this project, makes for heady listening. But the mood is never sorrowful. On “We the People…,” “Dis Generation,” and “Conrad Tokyo,” the group defies gravity once more. “ Dis Generation “ Radiohead — No one does dystopia like Radiohead, but on their ninth album, the band balance their signature foreboding imagery and atmospherics with sweeping, orchestral beauty. Thom Yorke’s stirringly confessional songwriting creates moments of both surprising tenderness and, following this year’s global political upheavals, deep resonance. “Dreamers, they never learn,” he sings on “Daydream.” It’s a line that could be delivered with fire, but he sounds utterly heartbroken. “ Daydreaming “ Swet Shop Boys — Riz Ahmed and Himanshu Suri’s hip-hop tag team brilliantly captured the roiling mix of pride, indignity, and righteous anger felt by many in the Middle Eastern and South Asian diasporas in 2016. But alternately witty and cutting observations on life under white supremacy (like from the TSA-targeting “T5”: “Always get the random check when I rock the stubble”) are likely to hit close to home for people of color, descendants of immigrants, and sociopolitical outsiders of many stripes. At a time when brown people are still the subject of precious few first-person narratives in mainstream media and culture, the Swet Shop Boys rap like their very existence depends on it. is both immediately gratifying and a powerful argument for broader representation in art. “ Shottin “ Blood Orange — Solemn and deeply felt, Dev Hynes’ ambitious meditation on being black in post-Ferguson America takes free jazz, R&B ballads, and Michael Jackson’s world-healing pop in its sweep. Highlights “Best to You” feat. Empress Of, “Hadron Collider” feat. Nelly Furtado, and “Desiree” hold you in their hypnotic thrall. “ Best to You “ Mitski — Though she’s standing on the shoulders of alternative giants — St. Vincent, TV on the Radio, Angel Olsen, Weezer — Mitski’s deadpan, diaristic songwriting puts a fiercely individualistic spin on left-of-center indie rock. These songs, about the agony and ennui of your mid-twenties, channel the compound anxieties (romantic, economic, social) of coming of age at exactly this moment. “ Your Best American Girl “ Kanye West — Despite his recent Trumped-up meltdown, there may be no more sublime piece of music released this year than “Ultralight Beam”, the opener and skeleton key to Kanye’s stubbornly confounding and sporadically thrilling seventh album. Its transcendent production and stunning performances — from Kelly Price, The-Dream, Kirk Franklin, and Chance the Rapper — are new testaments to West’s aptitude for assembling a wide array of musical talent and extracting moments of genius from creative chaos. Other high points, including “Father Stretch My Hands Pt. 1” and “Pt. 2,” “Famous,” and “Waves,” are uniformly life-affirming, joining the spiritual and the corporeal in a way that only Kanye can. “ Ultralight Beam “ Kaytranada — This is music as release valve. A shimmering collage of house, disco, hip-hop, and R&B, Haitian-Canadian electronic producer Kaytranada’s debut album, , is a soundtrack for vibrant days and ecstatic nights. A tasteful supporting cast of guest vocalists, including Phonte, Anderson .Paak, and Little Dragon, contribute to an elite round-robin of convivial vibes. “ Leave Me Alone “   How Do Your "Law & Order" Opinions Compare To Everyone...    Literally Just 22 Hilariously Perfect Tweets About...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

2. Frank Ocean — Blonde

Frank Ocean

Ocean’s long-awaited and dazzlingly layered return to music plays like a series of interrelated, impressionistic sketches on the profound and the profane. The preternaturally gifted songwriter uses ethereal organs, dreamy guitar, and a drawerful of voice effects to conjure ghosts of longing and alienation — from his peers, from his romantic partners, and from his god. On Blonde’s soulful highlights including “Ivy,” “Pink + White,” and “Self Control,” he’s an unflinching excavator of his own conflicting emotions, turning the rawest of materials into luminous mosaics.

Play this now: “Self Control“