Sacramento Kings DeMarcus Cousins gets ejected, returns after tech rescinded for accidentally spitting out his mouthpiece
Cousins ejected, returns after 2nd tech rescinded
Cousins ejected, returns after 2nd tech rescinded LeBron James defies a long history of misses Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Shumpert suffers ankle sprain early in Cavs' win LeBron James defies a long history of misses Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kerr fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Rodman gets 3 years' probation in freeway crash Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale After he scores the go-ahead basket in the fourth quarter, DeMarcus Cousins celebrates in front of the Blazers' bench, and his mouthpiece falls out. Cousins is originally assessed a technical foul and ejected, but his ejection is overturned. (0:58) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Sacramento Kings center DeMarcus Cousins was automatically ejected late in the Kings' 126-121 win against the Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday night when he picked up a second technical foul after he appeared to spit his mouthguard at the Portland bench. However, in an unusual turn, officials rescinded the technical, and Cousins re-entered the game. Cousins, 26, was fouled by Mason Plumlee as he scored with 35 seconds left to put the Kings up 121-119. He turned and appeared to say something to the Blazers' bench, and his mouthguard flew out of his mouth. He tore at his jersey and sprinted from the floor to the locker room after receiving his second technical. But the officials met and reversed the call, and Cousins jogged back out, returning to complete a three-point play and put the Kings up 122-119. He finished with a season-high 55 points. He told CSN California in a fiery on-court postgame interview that his mouthguard came out accidentally, and he called the ejection "ridiculous." "It's ridiculous," he said. "It's obvious what's being done out here. It's on a nightly basis. I hope the world can see now what's really going on out here 'cause it's getting ridiculous. It's really ridiculous." Cousins had calmed down by the time he addressed the media in the locker room. "I don't really know what happened," he said. "I was caught up in the moment of what I was going to tear up in the locker room, and they called me back, they rushed me back. They told me I had to come shoot the free throw. So I tried to refocus and whatever. That was weird. That was the weirdest thing. I've never experienced that before." Cousins was adamant the mouthguard came out by accident. "I saw the replay, so I can see why people could be mad, but I was talking to the bench and it came out," he said. "I'd never spit on anyone. I'm not like that." Referee Brian Forte told a pool reporter that he called the technical foul because he thought Cousins threw his mouthguard into the stands. "I conferred with my partners, and they confirmed that he did not throw the mouthpiece and that it came out of his mouth and that's how it ended up [under Portland's bench]," Forte said. Forte said the officials did not consult replay because the incident was not reviewable. Portland power forward Meyers Leonard , who said he was the one Cousins was speaking to when the mouthguard went flying, said Cousins deserved to be out of the game. "He's a very skilled player, had a very good game. But his antics are over the top. He's disrespectful, out of line; I mean, the list of words could go on," Leonard said. Addressing Cousins' assertion that the ejection was "ridiculous," Leonard said: "He did it to himself. And that's the truth." "I don't know that he spit his mouthpiece at me," Leonard added. "But his mouthpiece came out of his mouth when he was screaming and yelling at me, and it was right next to me." "From my vantage point, I thought that he taunted our bench and as he was taunting, the mouthpiece flew out," Blazers coach Terry Stotts said. "The referee asked me if it was his mouthpiece and I said that it was. Then he asked me if he threw it, then I said no he didn't, and that's why he came back. Whether it was intentionally spitting it out or not, I don't know the intention." "He's a very skilled player, had a very good game. But his antics are over the top. He's disrespectful, out of line; I mean, the list of words could go on." Blazers forward Meyers Leonard This is not the first time Cousins has gotten in trouble for an incident involving his mouthguard. In October, he was fined $25,000 and assessed a technical foul for throwing his mouthpiece and entering the stands with 37.2 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter of a Kings win against the Minnesota Timberwolves . Cousins finished Tuesday's game with 55 points and 13 rebounds in 41 minutes, capping a wild day for him. Just hours before the game, he was fined a reported $50,000 by the Kings for his profanity-laced tirade against a newspaper columnist last week. Cousins issued an apology for the incident earlier Tuesday but refused to address the matter after the win against the Blazers, simply smiling and giving a thumbs-up when questioned about it. The two-time All-Star rallied Sacramento in the fourth quarter Tuesday, scoring 17 points, including two huge 3-pointers, to avenge an earlier overtime loss this season in Portland. "Kind of a crazy game," Kings coach Dave Joerger said. "Certainly Cousins had a nice game. OK, that's an understatement. But I was very impressed. That any of us who would get thrown out in what we think is a questionable deal, then to come back and step out and make the free throw was very impressive." The win ended Sacramento's seven-game losing streak to the Blazers. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

After he scores the go-ahead basket in the fourth quarter, DeMarcus Cousins celebrates in front of the Blazers' bench, and his mouthpiece falls out. Cousins is originally assessed a technical foul and ejected, but his ejection is overturned. (0:58)

Sacramento Kings center DeMarcus Cousins was automatically ejected late in the Kings' 126-121 win against the Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday night when he picked up a second technical foul after he appeared to spit his mouthguard at the Portland bench.

However, in an unusual turn, officials rescinded the technical, and Cousins re-entered the game.

Cousins, 26, was fouled by Mason Plumlee as he scored with 35 seconds left to put the Kings up 121-119. He turned and appeared to say something to the Blazers' bench, and his mouthguard flew out of his mouth.

Editor's Picks Kings opt to fine Cousins for tirade vs. reporter Kings center DeMarcus Cousins will not be suspended for his tirade against a local columnist, but he has been fined $50,000 by the team, according to the Sacramento Bee.

He tore at his jersey and sprinted from the floor to the locker room after receiving his second technical. But the officials met and reversed the call, and Cousins jogged back out, returning to complete a three-point play and put the Kings up 122-119. He finished with a season-high 55 points.

He told CSN California in a fiery on-court postgame interview that his mouthguard came out accidentally, and he called the ejection "ridiculous."

"It's ridiculous," he said. "It's obvious what's being done out here. It's on a nightly basis. I hope the world can see now what's really going on out here 'cause it's getting ridiculous. It's really ridiculous."

Cousins had calmed down by the time he addressed the media in the locker room.

"I don't really know what happened," he said. "I was caught up in the moment of what I was going to tear up in the locker room, and they called me back, they rushed me back. They told me I had to come shoot the free throw. So I tried to refocus and whatever. That was weird. That was the weirdest thing. I've never experienced that before."

Cousins was adamant the mouthguard came out by accident.

"I saw the replay, so I can see why people could be mad, but I was talking to the bench and it came out," he said. "I'd never spit on anyone. I'm not like that."

Referee Brian Forte told a pool reporter that he called the technical foul because he thought Cousins threw his mouthguard into the stands.

DeMarcus Cousins was adamant following Tuesday night's game that he did not spit or throw his mouthguard at the Blazers bench. "I saw the replay, so I can see why people could be mad, but I was talking to the bench and it came out," he explained. Rocky Widner/NBAE via Getty Images

"I conferred with my partners, and they confirmed that he did not throw the mouthpiece and that it came out of his mouth and that's how it ended up [under Portland's bench]," Forte said.

Forte said the officials did not consult replay because the incident was not reviewable.

Portland power forward Meyers Leonard, who said he was the one Cousins was speaking to when the mouthguard went flying, said Cousins deserved to be out of the game.

"He's a very skilled player, had a very good game. But his antics are over the top. He's disrespectful, out of line; I mean, the list of words could go on," Leonard said.

Addressing Cousins' assertion that the ejection was "ridiculous," Leonard said: "He did it to himself. And that's the truth."

"I don't know that he spit his mouthpiece at me," Leonard added. "But his mouthpiece came out of his mouth when he was screaming and yelling at me, and it was right next to me."

"From my vantage point, I thought that he taunted our bench and as he was taunting, the mouthpiece flew out," Blazers coach Terry Stotts said. "The referee asked me if it was his mouthpiece and I said that it was. Then he asked me if he threw it, then I said no he didn't, and that's why he came back. Whether it was intentionally spitting it out or not, I don't know the intention."

"He's a very skilled player, had a very good game. But his antics are over the top. He's disrespectful, out of line; I mean, the list of words could go on." Blazers forward Meyers Leonard

This is not the first time Cousins has gotten in trouble for an incident involving his mouthguard. In October, he was fined $25,000 and assessed a technical foul for throwing his mouthpiece and entering the stands with 37.2 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter of a Kings win against the Minnesota Timberwolves.

Cousins finished Tuesday's game with 55 points and 13 rebounds in 41 minutes, capping a wild day for him. Just hours before the game, he was fined a reported $50,000 by the Kings for his profanity-laced tirade against a newspaper columnist last week.

Cousins issued an apology for the incident earlier Tuesday but refused to address the matter after the win against the Blazers, simply smiling and giving a thumbs-up when questioned about it.

The two-time All-Star rallied Sacramento in the fourth quarter Tuesday, scoring 17 points, including two huge 3-pointers, to avenge an earlier overtime loss this season in Portland.

"Kind of a crazy game," Kings coach Dave Joerger said. "Certainly Cousins had a nice game. OK, that's an understatement. But I was very impressed. That any of us who would get thrown out in what we think is a questionable deal, then to come back and step out and make the free throw was very impressive."

The win ended Sacramento's seven-game losing streak to the Blazers.

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.