Sports in 2016: Winners, Losers and Cheaters
Sports in 2016: Winners, Losers and Cheaters
— Cheating in sports took a strange turn when Julie Miller, an age-group champion at the 2015 Ironman Canada, was disqualified after detective work by athletes who believed she had cut the course there and at other races. Read more       - An investigation by The New York Times raised questions about the N.F.L.’s concussion research and its relationship with the tobacco industry. Read more      — Ali was the most thrilling if not the best heavyweight boxer of all time, a towering figure with an agile mind who was both admired and vilified for his religious, political and social stances. Read more      — Shock. Anger. Agony. Pain. Behold the faces of Mets fans in this picture, taken by Chang W. Lee of The New York Times as the Royals’ Eric Hosmer dived safely home to tie the score in the ninth inning of Game 5 of last year’s World Series. Three innings later, the Royals scored five runs to win the championship. We managed to track down 11 of the people in the photo, and we asked those with the best view of the play to relive it. Read more      — Michael Phelps’s road to becoming the most decorated athlete in Olympic history had been treacherously steep and single-file narrow, as isolating as a deep free diver’s plunge. But before he finished his record-setting career at the Rio Games, he had to overcome his own issues by attending rehab. Read more      — Dozens of Russian athletes at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, including at least 15 medal winners, were part of a state-run doping program, meticulously planned for years to ensure dominance at the Games, according to Grigory Rodchenkov, the director of the country’s antidoping laboratory at the time. Read more      Read more      — The question wasn’t if she was going to win a gold medal, but how many. Heading into the Rio Games we took a look at what made Simone Biles so good. Read more        — Palmer was the champion golfer whose full-bore style of play, thrilling tournament victories and magnetic personality inspired an American golf boom, attracted a following known as Arnie’s Army and made him one of the most popular athletes in the world. Read more      — Baseball scouts used to scrutinize Maury Lerner’s every move. Then F.B.I. agents were the ones watching. Lerner batted .328 for the Boise Braves in 1957. Twenty years later, he was serving time at the Adult Correctional Institutions in Rhode Island. Read more      — In 2012, the Brazilian judoka Rafaela Silva was a medal favorite, but she was disqualified. At the Rio Games, she sought to show that her humble background could not squelch her dreams. Watch      The attempt to identify promising talent for an audacious plan: To use science to facilitate a sub-two-hour marathon by 2019, a decade or two sooner than many experts think possible. Read more    Advertisement

By CHRISTOPH FUHRMANS, ANH-THU HUYNH, JIM LUTTRELL, SAM MANCHESTER, RUMSEY TAYLOR, and JOSH WILLIAMS

‘A Front-Row Seat. To Misery.’

April 1 — Shock. Anger. Agony. Pain. Behold the faces of Mets fans in this picture, taken by Chang W. Lee of The New York Times as the Royals’ Eric Hosmer dived safely home to tie the score in the ninth inning of Game 5 of last year’s World Series. Three innings later, the Royals scored five runs to win the championship. We managed to track down 11 of the people in the photo, and we asked those with the best view of the play to relive it. Read more