Alan Thicke’s Wife Tanya Opens Up About ‘Gut Wrenching Sadness’ Following Actor’s Death
Alan Thicke’s Wife Tanya Opens Up About ‘Gut Wrenching Sadness’ Following Actor’s Death
One week following her husband Alan Thicke ‘s death , his wife Tanya Callau Thicke has broken her silence. “It is with gut wrenching sadness and unbelievable grief that I thank everyone from the bottom of my heart for the outpouring of love and support during this unimaginable time,” Callau Thicke, 41, said in her statement to PEOPLE on Tuesday. “Through tears and smiles our dearest of family and friends came together at our home to celebrate the life of my sweet and devoted husband Alan Thicke,” her statement continued. The star died on Dec. 13 at 69 years old after suffering a heart attack while playing hockey with Carter . Along with thanking fans and friends for their outpouring of support, Tanya also shared that she had her final farewell with her husband, whom she married on May 7, 2005 in Cabo San Lucas . “Yesterday, along with my step sons and our combined extended family, we laid my beloved husband, soul mate and the patriarch of our family to rest. We ask that you respect our privacy during this time of profound mourning,” she concluded. Tanya and the rest of the family asks that donations be made in memory of Alan Thicke to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) , “a cause that he cared about deeply.” Also on Tuesday, Thicke’s former daughter-in-law Paula Patton shared a heartfelt message. “I knew Alan since I was 15 years old and he had a tremendous effect on my life. I loved and respected him so much!” Patton, who was married to Robin Thicke , wrote on social media. “So many great memories and laughs together. We will miss him so much! His grandson is quite sure he is still here with us in spirit.”

One week following her husband Alan Thicke‘s death, his wife Tanya Callau Thicke has broken her silence.

“It is with gut wrenching sadness and unbelievable grief that I thank everyone from the bottom of my heart for the outpouring of love and support during this unimaginable time,” Callau Thicke, 41, said in her statement to PEOPLE on Tuesday.

“Through tears and smiles our dearest of family and friends came together at our home to celebrate the life of my sweet and devoted husband Alan Thicke,” her statement continued.

The Growing Pains star died on Dec. 13 at 69 years old after suffering a heart attack while playing hockey with Carter.

Along with thanking fans and friends for their outpouring of support, Tanya also shared that she had her final farewell with her husband, whom she married on May 7, 2005 in Cabo San Lucas.

“Yesterday, along with my step sons and our combined extended family, we laid my beloved husband, soul mate and the patriarch of our family to rest. We ask that you respect our privacy during this time of profound mourning,” she concluded.

Tanya and the rest of the family asks that donations be made in memory of Alan Thicke to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF), “a cause that he cared about deeply.”

Also on Tuesday, Thicke’s former daughter-in-law Paula Patton shared a heartfelt message.

“I knew Alan since I was 15 years old and he had a tremendous effect on my life. I loved and respected him so much!” Patton, who was married to Robin Thicke, wrote on social media. “So many great memories and laughs together. We will miss him so much! His grandson is quite sure he is still here with us in spirit.”