The 'Om Telolet Om' meme has a bizarre origin
The 'Om Telolet Om' meme has a bizarre origin
If you've been seeing what looks like a new-age mantra making the Twitter rounds, you'll be happy to know it's not a call to chill out before the holidays. It's just the latest internet trend. DJs have been tweeting "Om Telolet Om" over the past few days as random videos recording people shouting the phrase have been on the rise. But the odd trio of words has origins far beyond the turntable. It actually comes from a roadside ritual in Indonesia. SEE ALSO: Artsy photo app Prisma gets more social The phrase means "Sir, honk your horn, sir" (more or less) and generally doesn't make much sense outside the context of honking buses in Indonesia. The BBC reported Tuesday that the meme started with young people trying to get buses in Indonesia to honk their horns, which have customized jingles. But then people started pestering musicians with the honking plea and the phrase took off, with many DJs playing along. The BBC reported nearly 800,000 tweets with the phrase and counting. The musicians latching onto the trend include DJ Snake, Zedd and many others . OM TELOLET OM — Zedd (@Zedd) December 20, 2016 Om Telolet Om — DJ SNAKE (@djsnake) December 20, 2016 Teen pop star Austin Mahone even made a meme-inspired beat after thousands of fans ambushed him with the phrase. Other artists are also playing around with the horns and phrase. Haha as you guys requested, here it is!! #OMTELOLETOM  https://t.co/oUjVRLtC2s — Firebeatz (@Firebeatz) December 20, 2016 But it has spread way beyond the music industry at this point. The internet loves it, so it must be cool, right? Can someone tell me What is "OM TELOLET OM" mean? — BamBam(แบมแบม) (@BamBam1A) December 21, 2016 Om Telolet Om 🚌😂 — Cameron Dallas (@camerondallas) December 21, 2016 BONUS: These augmented reality robots will turn your living room into a battlefield

If you've been seeing what looks like a new-age mantra making the Twitter rounds, you'll be happy to know it's not a call to chill out before the holidays. It's just the latest internet trend.

DJs have been tweeting "Om Telolet Om" over the past few days as random videos recording people shouting the phrase have been on the rise. But the odd trio of words has origins far beyond the turntable. It actually comes from a roadside ritual in Indonesia.

SEE ALSO: Artsy photo app Prisma gets more social

The phrase means "Sir, honk your horn, sir" (more or less) and generally doesn't make much sense outside the context of honking buses in Indonesia. The BBC reported Tuesday that the meme started with young people trying to get buses in Indonesia to honk their horns, which have customized jingles.

But then people started pestering musicians with the honking plea and the phrase took off, with many DJs playing along. The BBC reported nearly 800,000 tweets with the phrase and counting.

The musicians latching onto the trend include DJ Snake, Zedd and many others.

OM TELOLET OM — Zedd (@Zedd) December 20, 2016

Om Telolet Om — DJ SNAKE (@djsnake) December 20, 2016

Teen pop star Austin Mahone even made a meme-inspired beat after thousands of fans ambushed him with the phrase. Other artists are also playing around with the horns and phrase.

But it has spread way beyond the music industry at this point. The internet loves it, so it must be cool, right?

Can someone tell me

What is "OM TELOLET OM" mean? — BamBam(แบมแบม) (@BamBam1A) December 21, 2016