Here's The Story Of 'White Helmets' Who Are Risking Their Lives To Save Innocent Civilians In War-Torn Syria
Here's The Story Of 'White Helmets' Who Are Saving Innocent Civilians In War-Torn Syria
Here's The Story Of 'White Helmets' Who Are Risking Their Lives To Save Innocent Civilians In War-Torn Syria They say the highest honour a person can achieve is through the service of mankind. One of the most grueling places on the Earth right now is Syria – can you imagine living in constant fear of a bomb dropping on your house, your roof caving in and death befalling you? That is the life of Syrians and has been for almost six years now. According to ‘I Am Syria’ the current death toll stands at 450,000 including 50,000 children. Somewhere between airstrikes, ceasefires and the chaotic evacuation of Aleppo, as Assad’s forces overtake the city, there is still humanity. Who Are White Helmets? The White Helmets, less popularly known as The Syrian Civil Defense, is a group that is tirelessly working in Syria to save the lives of innocent civilians that are by chance caught in the fight between the government, its allies and the so-called rebels. Till date, their selfless efforts have saved more than 78,529 people from attacks in Syria, for which they were awarded “the alternative Nobel prize” by the Stockholm-based Right Livelihood Award Foundation in September 2016. Head of the White Helmets, Raed Saleh believes, “Barrel bombs - sometimes filled with chlorine - are the biggest killer of civilians in Syria today. Our unarmed and neutral rescue workers have saved [thousands] from the attacks in Syria, but there are many we cannot reach. There are children trapped in rubble we cannot hear.” “We act neutrally, impartially and for all Syrians,” reads their website. No Allegiance To Political Parties They are a group of 3000, both women and men, and in the event of any attack aim to reach in the shortest time possible in order to minimize further harm and injury to people and property. Also, they claim not to pledge allegiance to any political party or group. “We serve all the people of Syria – we are from the people and we for the people.” The Syrian civil war didn’t start off with as it is now – it began as a peaceful resistance against the regime that escalated into a full-blown war. When liberated cities and region were blockaded by the regime through on-ground and air force is when The White Helmets saw their inception, which was in late 2012 and early 2013.

They say the highest honour a person can achieve is through the service of mankind. One of the most grueling places on the Earth right now is Syria – can you imagine living in constant fear of a bomb dropping on your house, your roof caving in and death befalling you?

That is the life of Syrians and has been for almost six years now.

According to ‘I Am Syria’ the current death toll stands at 450,000 including 50,000 children. Somewhere between airstrikes, ceasefires and the chaotic evacuation of Aleppo, as Assad’s forces overtake the city, there is still humanity.

Reuters

Who Are White Helmets?

The White Helmets, less popularly known as The Syrian Civil Defense, is a group that is tirelessly working in Syria to save the lives of innocent civilians that are by chance caught in the fight between the government, its allies and the so-called rebels.

Till date, their selfless efforts have saved more than 78,529 people from attacks in Syria, for which they were awarded “the alternative Nobel prize” by the Stockholm-based Right Livelihood Award Foundation in September 2016.

Reuters

Head of the White Helmets, Raed Saleh believes, “Barrel bombs - sometimes filled with chlorine - are the biggest killer of civilians in Syria today. Our unarmed and neutral rescue workers have saved [thousands] from the attacks in Syria, but there are many we cannot reach. There are children trapped in rubble we cannot hear.”

Reuters

“We act neutrally, impartially and for all Syrians,” reads their website.

No Allegiance To Political Parties

They are a group of 3000, both women and men, and in the event of any attack aim to reach in the shortest time possible in order to minimize further harm and injury to people and property. Also, they claim not to pledge allegiance to any political party or group.

“We serve all the people of Syria – we are from the people and we for the people.”

Reuters

The Syrian civil war didn’t start off with as it is now – it began as a peaceful resistance against the regime that escalated into a full-blown war. When liberated cities and region were blockaded by the regime through on-ground and air force is when The White Helmets saw their inception, which was in late 2012 and early 2013.

Training Began In Turkey

The self-organised groups quickly transformed themselves into volunteer centres, with the first ones cropping up in Aleppo city, Douma and Al Bab.

They soon realised that their work won’t see fruition without proper training and equipment so their first training was organized in Turkey in March 2013. Since then, the White Helmets have grown to 120 centres across Syria with 2,890 civil defenders.

Reuters

Have Lost 150 Peace Builders

In saving the lives of thousands of innocent bystanders, including children who are yet to experience even a droplet of life, the White Helmets have lost 154 of their very own in the process. It can only be hoped that those lives, and countless others, won’t be lose in vain.

They “hope and pray for the cessation of bombing…in order to embark on the generational task of rebuilding Syria into a stable, prosperous and peace loving nation in which the social, economic and political aspirations of her people can be realised”.

We’re hoping and praying with them, as is the entire world.