Which lucky locations will have a white Christmas this year?

Snow on Christmas creates the magical scenes that have inspired songs and stories. Even some people who detest snow are enamored by visions of a glistening white landscape on Christmas Day. So which fortunate locations in the Lower 48 will enjoy a white Christmas this year? Presently about 40 percent of the nation has some snow cover and these numbers shouldn’t change too much by Dec. 25. Between Wednesday and Christmas, forecast models suggest snow cover will shrink some in the Northeast and Midwest, and expand in the West. Cities likely to witness a white Christmas include: Burlington, Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago, Milwaukee, Des Moines, Minneapolis, Bismarck, Casper, Billings and Boise. Many of those locations already have snow cover or will gain it over the next few days. The major snow-maker will be a storm coming into the West on Friday and Saturday that will dump a lot of snow in the Sierra Nevada and the Rockies. Locations that will not have snow include much of the Interstate 95 corridor from Boston south, the Southern Plains, Southeast and Mid-Atlantic.   The 40 percent snow cover anticipated on Christmas this year is very close to the 2003-2015 average (39 percent), based on NOAA data . Since 2003, the snowiest Christmas occurred in 2009, when 63 percent of the nation had snow cover while the least snowy Christmas happened in 2003 when nearly 80 percent of the Lower 48 awoke to bare ground. 2009 was made particularly snowy in the East by a historic snowstorm that slammed the Mid-Atlantic on Dec. 18-19.   No such anomalous storm has occurred this December. The areas that will end up snowy on Christmas Day will end up matching fairly closely those that are most likely to, based on the past. Note that the National Weather Service officially defines a white Christmas as one in which an inch of snow is on the ground at 7 a.m. local time.



A man dressed as Santa Claus walks toward an ice-skating rink in the Canalside section of Buffalo on Dec. 17. (Julio Cortez/AP)

Snow on Christmas creates the magical scenes that have inspired songs and stories.

Even some people who detest snow are enamored by visions of a glistening white landscape on Christmas Day.

So which fortunate locations in the Lower 48 will enjoy a white Christmas this year?

Presently about 40 percent of the nation has some snow cover and these numbers shouldn’t change too much by Dec. 25.



Snow cover on Dec. 21. (NOAA)

Between Wednesday and Christmas, forecast models suggest snow cover will shrink some in the Northeast and Midwest, and expand in the West.

Cities likely to witness a white Christmas include: Burlington, Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago, Milwaukee, Des Moines, Minneapolis, Bismarck, Casper, Billings and Boise.



GFS model forecast of snow cover and depth between Dec. 21 and Dec. 25.

Many of those locations already have snow cover or will gain it over the next few days. The major snow-maker will be a storm coming into the West on Friday and Saturday that will dump a lot of snow in the Sierra Nevada and the Rockies.

Locations that will not have snow include much of the Interstate 95 corridor from Boston south, the Southern Plains, Southeast and Mid-Atlantic.

[Forget about a white Christmas in Washington, again]

The 40 percent snow cover anticipated on Christmas this year is very close to the 2003-2015 average (39 percent), based on NOAA data.

Since 2003, the snowiest Christmas occurred in 2009, when 63 percent of the nation had snow cover while the least snowy Christmas happened in 2003 when nearly 80 percent of the Lower 48 awoke to bare ground.

2009 was made particularly snowy in the East by a historic snowstorm that slammed the Mid-Atlantic on Dec. 18-19.

[Looking back on winter 2009-10: ‘Snowpocalypse’ strikes, smashes December snow records]

No such anomalous storm has occurred this December. The areas that will end up snowy on Christmas Day will end up matching fairly closely those that are most likely to, based on the past.



Historical chances of a white Christmas. (NOAA)

Note that the National Weather Service officially defines a white Christmas as one in which an inch of snow is on the ground at 7 a.m. local time.