Berlin market attack: Australian witness describes shock, trauma and media pressure



Berlin market attack: Australian witness describes shock, trauma and media pressure

Updated

Australian woman Trisha O'Neill is trying her best to wrap her head around what happened after witnessing the devastation at a Berlin Christmas market.

The 24-year-old spoke to the ABC shortly after the attack, describing the moment she saw a truck smash into the market, crushing so many people in its path.

In the days following the attack, Ms O'Neill has been juggling with dealing with her trauma and fielding constant media requests.

Although physically unharmed, Ms O'Neill has been fighting constant fatigue and migraines, and has not stopped shaking from the shock of it all.

The friends she witnessed the attack with invited her to revisit Kurfürstendamm on Wednesday evening to light a candle and she forced herself to go along.

Sombre vigils and emotionally-charged rallies

Ms O'Neill was feeling anxious about returning to the area of the attack, where many vigils were taking place.

"We walked through each vigil and just talked about everything together. It just made it not surreal anymore because we went back — if that makes sense."

"But it was so sad and eerie. All the markets are closed, it's dark and the mess is still there. All the roads are blocked and security is intense."

They soon walked right into a rally being held just a block from where it happened.

"It was completely divided with one side pro-refugees chanting for solidarity and to spread love, not hate, and the other anti-refugees," she said.

"The chanting kept going back and forth and we were all a bit scared. Hate is such a strong emotion and knowing that one side of the rally includes people who are driven by hate made us uncomfortable.

"All it takes is one person to snap and I feared a riot could happen at any moment."

Ms O'Neill said returning offered some closure, and that writing out her experiences was helping.

"I started to write everything that happened that day as a way to cope with what I've experienced," she said.

"I'm getting it all out — it's kind of like meditating for me.

"I've been making sure I am aware of my emotions by evaluating and analysing them."

Embassy offers counselling

The Australian embassy in Germany have reached out to Australians who were affected by the attack.

Keen to face her trauma head-on, Ms O'Neill took up the embassy's offer.

"I decided to take it after realising my body was in shock and still shaking," she said.

"After talking to someone, it made me feel better because I was able to understand that there is no right way to deal with something like this."

'Why not us? Why those people?'

In the aftermath of the event, there have not been many social outings which have given Ms O'Neill a lot of time to reflect on what she witnessed.

"I think the biggest emotion I felt was guilt — well, I'm still feeling like that," she said.

"Because I froze and I didn't do much to help. I wanted to but I couldn't, I was too scared of what I'd see."

She said visiting the site again was — to some extent — therapeutic but also gave her more perspective.

"It was all pure luck. That truck was heading for the church, it just didn't get there. But if it had stayed on track... we were directly in the path," she said.

"We went to the street to see where it came from and we are so lucky. But I felt guilt because why not us? Why those people?"

Dealing with intense media

After speaking with the ABC, Ms O'Neill was bombarded with media requests from reporters around the world.

Her inbox was filled with messages from people she had not spoken to in years and some she had never even met.

"I'm just scrolling through my inbox, I can't believe how many messages there are," she said.

As someone who usually keeps a low online profile, Ms O'Neill said she had struggled with seeing her face appearing on the internet, on Facebook and on television — all the while, still trying to process the ordeal in her mind.

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, disasters-and-accidents, accidents, health, mental-health, germany

First posted