Clamping of untaxed cars has doubled since the end of the paper tax disc as drivers forget to renew
Clamping of untaxed cars has doubled since the end of the paper tax disc as drivers forget to renew
lamping of untaxed cars has nearly doubled since the paper tax disc was scrapped two years ago, as drivers say they forget to renew without the reminder on their windscreen. There has been an 80 per cent rise in clampings, which now stand at more than 9,000 a month. In the six months before the discs were stopped, the figure was 5,100 clampings a month. he figures were released to the BBC after a Freedom of Information request. The paper tax disc was ended in October 2014. At the time the Government said it would eventually result in savings for the DVLA of around £7 million a year. In July, figures showed revenue from vehicle tax fell by £93 million in the year after the paper disc was abolished. The DVLA sends a message, either by email or to a driver's home, to remind them to pay, but some people say without the tax disc on their windscreen, the expiry date slips their mind. If they move house or change email address, they can miss the notification. n the first day a car is clamped, it costs £100 to have it released. Subsequently the car is taken to a car pound, where the fee doubles to £200. The car pound also charges £21 today and there is also the risk of having to pay a Late Licensing Penalty of £80. The vehicle could be sent to be crushed or sold if it is not recovered by the owner within two weeks. or nurse Joanne McCusker form Salford, the cost was £340 to have a clamp removed from her car. "In all my years of driving, I've missed one payment and that was only since they've removed the tax disc," she told the BBC, adding that it is "a bit heavy-handed". "There could be another way, I'm sure, rather than have it clamped," she said. DVLA chief executive Oliver Morley said: " The law is that you pay your tax. "The vast majority pay with no problem at all." The law change prompted 13-year-old schoolboy Harvey Millington to start a business sending out reminder tax discs to jog forgetful driver's memories. He sends out thousands of paper discs to motorists who run the risk of being hit with government fines when they forget to renew their tax or MOT. Millington went on the make £100,000 from the reminders and promptly brought a three-acre patch of land for £40,000 so he could start a luxury camp site .

Clamping of untaxed cars has nearly doubled since the paper tax disc was scrapped two years ago, as drivers say they forget to renew without the reminder on their windscreen.

There has been an 80 per cent rise in clampings, which now stand at more than 9,000 a month.

In the six months before the discs were stopped, the figure was 5,100 clampings a month.