Jon Gruden Comments on Interest in Coaching Amid Rumors Surrounding the Rams
Jon Gruden Comments on Interest in Coaching Amid Rumors Surrounding the Rams
Despite rumors that he is a top candidate for the vacant Los Angeles Rams head coaching job, Jon Gruden denied interest in the position Wednesday. As heard in the following video, courtesy of ESPN's on Instagram, Gruden expressed contentment with continuing to serve as a announcer for ESPN: A photo posted by Mike and Mike (@ espnmikeandmike ) "Right now I have no intentions of coaching," Gruden said. "I really enjoy what I'm doing. I feel like I'm really close to the fire, and I'm getting plenty of satisfaction out of doing what I'm doing." Charles Robinson of Yahoo Sports reported Monday that sources indicated the Rams were prioritizing Gruden in their head coaching search and pushing for a meeting with him regarding the job. L.A. fired Jeff Fisher after a 4-9 start, and special teams coach John Fassel is serving in an interim capacity. The 53-year-old Gruden hasn't coached since going 9-7 with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2008. In 11 seasons with the Oakland Raiders and Bucs, Gruden went 95-81. He made five playoff appearances and led the Buccaneers to a Super Bowl win at the conclusion of the 2002 campaign. Despite being an offensive-minded coach, Gruden won with one of the NFL 's all-time greatest defenses in Tampa Bay, and the Rams have plenty of building blocks on that side of the ball, such as defensive tackle Aaron Donald. Even so, Gruden's comments suggest he is committed to retaining the analyst position he has served in since 2009.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Associated Press

Despite rumors that he is a top candidate for the vacant Los Angeles Rams head coaching job, Jon Gruden denied interest in the position Wednesday.

As heard in the following video, courtesy of ESPN's Mike & Mike on Instagram, Gruden expressed contentment with continuing to serve as a Monday Night Football announcer for ESPN:

"Right now I have no intentions of coaching," Gruden said. "I really enjoy what I'm doing. I feel like I'm really close to the fire, and I'm getting plenty of satisfaction out of doing what I'm doing."

Charles Robinson of Yahoo Sports reported Monday that sources indicated the Rams were prioritizing Gruden in their head coaching search and pushing for a meeting with him regarding the job.

L.A. fired Jeff Fisher after a 4-9 start, and special teams coach John Fassel is serving in an interim capacity.

The 53-year-old Gruden hasn't coached since going 9-7 with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2008. In 11 seasons with the Oakland Raiders and Bucs, Gruden went 95-81. He made five playoff appearances and led the Buccaneers to a Super Bowl win at the conclusion of the 2002 campaign.

Despite being an offensive-minded coach, Gruden won with one of the NFL's all-time greatest defenses in Tampa Bay, and the Rams have plenty of building blocks on that side of the ball, such as defensive tackle Aaron Donald.

Even so, Gruden's comments suggest he is committed to retaining the analyst position he has served in since 2009.

Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.