5 ways Apple can get back in the game in 2017
5 ways Apple can get back in the game in 2017
Make the iPhone 8 truly ‘magical’ The year 2017 will mark a decade since the original iPhone came out, and many analysts predict the smartphone will see an impressive redesign, with an all-new look, the use of sharper, more colorful OLED displays — at least in select models such as the iPhone 8 Plus — wireless charging, much faster processors, and more built-in memory. Slash those MacBook Pro prices, and give us new iMacs  Watch out for 500 million iOS installations Gain more ground in the enterprise Take advantage of the new administration __   Jeff Bezos: Trump tech summit was ‘very productive’ Trump to tech titans: ‘Everybody in this room has to like me a little bit’ Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos will attend Trump’s tech summit Trump victory bursts Silicon Valley bubble Why Trump might not be a disaster for tech Obama’s chief tech boss explains the shortage of women in tech

If there’s one word critics might use to describe how Apple (AAPL) performed this year, it’s “disappointing.”

You’d be hard-pressed to locate consumers who found Apple products as “magical” this year as in years past. Sure, the tech giant still had a lot to crow about. Its stock has climbed nearly 9% year-to-date, and early iPhone 7 sales smashed records, helped in part by Samsung’s explosion-prone Galaxy Note 7. But despite some welcome improvements, like better cameras and dual speakers, the iPhone 7 proved more evolutionary than revolutionary, with an industrial design that looked largely the same.

Several of Apple’s other big products also failed to “wow” this year. The Apple Watch Series 2 can take a dip in the pool but still needs a cellphone connection to run much of the time. The MacBook Pro swaps out the row of old-school function keys for a thin OLED display called the Touch Bar, but in Apple’s never-ending quest for thinness, the all-new notebook trades hours of battery life for svelteness. (That’s a shame, given Apple’s notebooks until recently were notable for stellar battery life.) Apple, meanwhile, failed to update the entire iMac line.

But between the iPhone 8 — or whatever Apple plans on calling it — on the horizon and a new US president who says he’s intent on spurring domestic growth, things are looking up for Apple in the months ahead.

Here are 5 ways for Apple to correct its course in 2017:

Make the iPhone 8 truly ‘magical’

The iPhone 7 proved to be another bestselling product for Apple, but it was a safe bet design-wise — a move many speculate Apple made because it plans to pull out all the stops for next year’s iPhone 8.

The year 2017 will mark a decade since the original iPhone came out, and many analysts predict the smartphone will see an impressive redesign, with an all-new look, the use of sharper, more colorful OLED displays — at least in select models such as the iPhone 8 Plus — wireless charging, much faster processors, and more built-in memory.

In late 2015 and early 2016, the company acquired Faceshift, which specializes in 3-D motion capture for images, and Emotient, a company that develops technology that analyzes facial expressions to determine a person’s emotional state. It’s unclear at this time just how exactly Apple plans on using those technologies in its products, but at the very least, imagine an iPhone that quickly scans your face to unlock, or even recognizes hand and finger gestures to get around or do simple tasks.

Because of all of these improvements, well-known Apple analyst Gene Munster — who’s leaving Piper Jaffray to start his own venture capital firm — predicts Apple’s next iPhone will be “compelling enough” to see blowout sales of 170 million units during Apple’s 2018 fiscal year.

View photos Expect next year’s batch of MacBook Pros to come with a price cut, according to KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo. More

Slash those MacBook Pro prices, and give us new iMacs

As my colleague David Pogue concluded in his MacBook Pro review this November, the MacBook Pro with Touch Bar by and large is a welcome update to Apple’s longstanding line of notebook computers. But at $1,800, to start, it doesn’t come cheap.

KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo expects Apple to cut those prices during the second half of 2017, when Apple releases updated MacBook Pros with newer components inside. Kuo notes that historically, Apple tends to overprice its notebooks at the start of a new MacBook generation before gradually lowering prices the following years, evidenced when the company slashed prices on its MacBook Air products, for example, in 2013 and 2014.

Apple would benefit from finally releasing some major updates for its desktop computers. As my colleague Rob Pegoraro pointed out, the iMacs haven’t received a refresh — and a minor refresh at that — since October 2015. And the Mac mini and Mac Pro have languished even longer, with updates not seen since October 2014 and December 2013, respectively.