Rural families with poor broadband may be given vouchers to spend on getting connected
Rural families with poor broadband may be given vouchers to spend on getting connected
ural families with poor broadband will be given cash vouchers worth hundreds of pounds to spend on their own internet providers under plans being drawn up by Number 10. Senior Government sources have become convinced “sleepy” BT is failing to innovate and want a major shake-up to encourage smaller broadband providers. It is hoped families in remote communities will group together and spend their vouchers on experimental providers, such as one which installs WiFi satellites onto church spires. The proposals are being worked up by Theresa May ’s team for a Green Paper on competition in consumer markets to be published next spring. fcom, the telecoms regulator, revealed on Friday that a quarter of all properties in rural areas – close to a million in total - still do not have decent broadband. Steve Unger, Ofcom’s group director, said it was “unacceptable” that so many people were struggling to get broadband and urged ministers to improve coverage in the countryside. The Telegraph is running a Better Broadband campaign to highlight the damaging impact poor internet coverage is having on families and businesses in rural communities. The Government has proposed that every Briton should have the legal right to request access to internet speeds of 10mbps by 2020. However there are still 1.4 million homes and offices across Britain – equivalent to 5 per cent off all properties – without broadband that quick. hitehall figures are concerned that BT, which has an effective monopoly on installing fibre broadband connections in much of the country, will not connect rural communities quick enough. They are therefore preparing radical steps to help smaller providers, including handing cash vouchers to families to buy broadband from whoever they choose. “There a whole load of these insurgent providers using different technologies and they are not relying on fibre,” a senior Whitehall source said. “I can imagine 500 houses in a village and they’ve all got their voucher. The parish council comes together and says ‘we will hear from five providers and choose one of them’.” WiSpire, a broadband provider part-owned by the Church of England, is one innovative firm that has impressed government figures. The company connects church towers with WiFi to bring broadband to areas too remote to get internet through more routine means. The vouchers idea – the specifics of which are still being worked out – fits with similar schemes unveiled by Mrs May putting the benefits of economic growth in the hands of voters. The Prime Minister has already proposed some of the money made from fracking or building major housing estates is given directly to those households affected. A similar voucher broadband scheme was introduced for businesses in December 2013 but ended last year, with around 55,000 vouchers issued in total. Matt Warman, chairman of the broadband All-Party Parliamentary Group, said: “If the details are done properly it is genuinely transformation for the most isolated communities.” Matt Hancock, the digital and culture minister, said yesterday: "High speed broadband and good mobile connectivity are no longer a 'nice to have', but a modern necessity, and we will not rest until they are delivered."

Whitehall figures are concerned that BT, which has an effective monopoly on installing fibre broadband connections in much of the country, will not connect rural communities quick enough.

They are therefore preparing radical steps to help smaller providers, including handing cash vouchers to families to buy broadband from whoever they choose.

“There a whole load of these insurgent providers using different technologies and they are not relying on fibre,” a senior Whitehall source said.

“I can imagine 500 houses in a village and they’ve all got their voucher. The parish council comes together and says ‘we will hear from five providers and choose one of them’.”

WiSpire, a broadband provider part-owned by the Church of England, is one innovative firm that has impressed government figures.

The company connects church towers with WiFi to bring broadband to areas too remote to get internet through more routine means.

The vouchers idea – the specifics of which are still being worked out – fits with similar schemes unveiled by Mrs May putting the benefits of economic growth in the hands of voters.

The Prime Minister has already proposed some of the money made from fracking or building major housing estates is given directly to those households affected.

A similar voucher broadband scheme was introduced for businesses in December 2013 but ended last year, with around 55,000 vouchers issued in total.

Matt Warman, chairman of the broadband All-Party Parliamentary Group, said: “If the details are done properly it is genuinely transformation for the most isolated communities.”

Matt Hancock, the digital and culture minister, said yesterday: "High speed broadband and good mobile connectivity are no longer a 'nice to have', but a modern necessity, and we will not rest until they are delivered."