Boyfriend buys girlfriend the gift of her dreams: a blanket with his face on it
Boyfriend buys girlfriend the gift of her dreams: a blanket with his face on it
When it comes to gifts, it's always the thought that counts. Take 17-year-old Alyson Alfaro , for example, whose seemingly outlandish gift from her boyfriend  turned out to be exactly what she wanted. SEE ALSO: Man's live tweets from a café prove love isn't dead Alfaro and her boyfriend, Exavier don't get to see each other often because they live three hours apart, she explained to . One day, after six months of dating, Alfaro told Exavier that she was cold, and wished he could be there to keep her warm. That's when the dutiful boyfriend came up with a very unique gift idea: a blanket with his face on it. bitch i got my boyfriend on a blanket i am the most headass and idc i love it i love him pic.twitter.com/P9N0nXGz20 — holly jolly rat (@alysonsoswaggy) December 18, 2016 Alfaro thought the gift was absolutely perfect, and thousands of people Twitter agreed. Beyond the inquiries about where the blanket was from ( collage.com ), users were overwhelming in their support for the remarkable gift. I WANT A GIRL WHO LOVES ME THIS MUCH WTF!!! AND THIS AINT HEADASS AT ALL MA THIS IS TRUE LOVE. stay blessed stay faithful this is beautiful https://t.co/EbIWoYloRI — young M.A fan accou (@chefpolohoe) December 19, 2016 @alysonsoswaggy  @FrankZoglio I need one of you — Tiff Nicole (@TiffyG75) December 19, 2016 @alysonsoswaggy  @_RichCrew_ want one when I go away for college 😭😭 — ziri_cis (@ziri_cis) December 19, 2016 @alysonsoswaggy sisssss. Same 😁 pic.twitter.com/Lj6ey1BThm — Kayla Eubanks (@UziSuzy) December 19, 2016 @alysonsoswaggy  @adamlevine  @emilyespinosaa HAHAHA SAME pic.twitter.com/ELo3NHnnX0 — iv (@ivyilene) December 19, 2016 While Alfaro is stunned by her tweet's success, she told she's thrilled that, “a tweet about me loving and being obsessed with my boyfriend is what’s getting attention." Fellow people in relationships: looks like we're all getting blankets for Christmas this year. has reached out to Alfaro for comment. BONUS: Meet Mrs. Claus, the 76-year-old woman who has over 3,000 Santa Clauses

When it comes to gifts, it's always the thought that counts.

Take 17-year-old Alyson Alfaro, for example, whose seemingly outlandish gift from her boyfriend turned out to be exactly what she wanted.

Alfaro and her boyfriend, Exavier don't get to see each other often because they live three hours apart, she explained to Buzzfed News. One day, after six months of dating, Alfaro told Exavier that she was cold, and wished he could be there to keep her warm.

That's when the dutiful boyfriend came up with a very unique gift idea: a blanket with his face on it.

bitch i got my boyfriend on a blanket i am the most headass and idc i love it i love him pic.twitter.com/P9N0nXGz20 — holly jolly rat (@alysonsoswaggy) December 18, 2016

Alfaro thought the gift was absolutely perfect, and thousands of people Twitter agreed.

Beyond the many inquiries about where the blanket was from (collage.com), users were overwhelming in their support for the remarkable gift.

I WANT A GIRL WHO LOVES ME THIS MUCH WTF!!! AND THIS AINT HEADASS AT ALL MA THIS IS TRUE LOVE. stay blessed stay faithful this is beautiful https://t.co/EbIWoYloRI — young M.A fan accou (@chefpolohoe) December 19, 2016

@alysonsoswaggy @_RichCrew_ want one when I go away for college 😭😭 — ziri_cis (@ziri_cis) December 19, 2016

While Alfaro is stunned by her tweet's success, she told Buzzfeed she's thrilled that, “a tweet about me loving and being obsessed with my boyfriend is what’s getting attention."

Fellow people in relationships: looks like we're all getting blankets for Christmas this year.

Mashable has reached out to Alfaro for comment.