4 Simple Ways Women Can Help Women Succeed In Business
4 Simple Ways Women Can Help Women Succeed In Business
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Junea Rocha       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Senator Ron Wyden Event at Brazi Bites Headquarters (courtesy of Brazi Bites) The longer you’ve been in business, the more contacts and connections you have. I’ll always be grateful to Lisa, owner of Petunia's Pies & Pastries - a fellow Portland food entrepreneur with whom I shared commercial kitchen space in the very early days of Brazi Bites - she connected me with the “Local Forager” for Whole Foods Market. That generous yet simple action on her part turned out to be the first step toward a long-lasting partnership with Whole Foods and national distribution for my company.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Earlier this fall, I had the privilege to host Senator Ron Wyden and more than a dozen women business owners at the Brazi Bites headquarters. The topic of the roundtable discussion was the state of women-led businesses in Oregon; and, more specifically, the hurdles that female entrepreneurs face when it comes to accessing bank financing since women run almost 30% of small businesses yet are awarded less than 5% of the total value of conventional business loans .

The event inspired me to think of ways that I -- and other women -- can help one another grow our companies and achieve our goals. If you’re looking to do more in 2017, here are four simple ways we can help each other and have a real impact:

1) Share Your Network: The longer you’ve been in business, the more contacts and connections you have. One of the easiest ways to help fellow entrepreneurs is to open your network to them, share your contacts and make introductions. I’ll always be grateful to Lisa, owner of Petunia's Pies & Pastries - a fellow Portland food entrepreneur with whom I shared commercial kitchen space in the very early days of Brazi Bites - she connected me with the “Local Forager” for Whole Foods Market. That generous yet simple action on her part turned out to be the first step toward a long-lasting partnership with Whole Foods and national distribution for my company.

2) Make Strategic Time: I’m not suggesting lunch, dinner or even coffee. We’re all very busy growing our companies. Going out takes valuable time when you add up getting there, parking and waiting for food. Instead I usually try keeping my Friday afternoon schedule lighter so that I can take phone calls or meetings at my office. That’s the time to meet with the “friend of a friend” who is interested in starting a food company, someone who’s looking to raise capital or an entrepreneur who may want advice on getting on “Shark Tank”. 30 minutes on a Friday afternoon is very doable and typically enough time to help someone work through a challenge.

3) Share Insights: Our experiences and lessons learned have been acquired through years of hard work, blood, sweat and tears. They drive the decisions that move our companies forward and might be our most valuable assets as business leaders. I wouldn’t have grown Brazi Bites this far without insights from others, so I’m thrilled to share my lessons learned. I called my entrepreneur friends Taya and Leah from Scratch & Grain when I needed help preparing to pitch on Shark Tank, they coached me and gave me just the amount of confidence I needed to nail it; a quick email to Erika - cofounder of Wild Friends - helped me select the right booth at a large trade show I hadn’t attended before; and I trusted Maddy - cofounder of Love Grown - to teach me all about Canada when I was ready to export. I’ll do the same for them. It’s incredible to think I can help another entrepreneur avoid mistakes, spend their money wisely or capitalize on a unique opportunity. And doing so comes back to you and your business tenfold.

4) Share Resources: When I was just starting out in the food industry, a friend who had a booth at a tradeshow shared her extra passes so that I could attend the show for free. This small gesture was a big deal for me and my co-founder. We had wanted to attend this particular show but were still in “lean startup mode” and couldn’t spend the money. That experience proved invaluable, and I now work to pay it forward. Whether it’s passes to a tradeshow, an empty desk in your office or a heads-up that a reporter is looking for someone to interview for a story, there is probably something that’s relatively easy for you to share that would mean a lot to someone else.