17 Extremely Festive Ways To Get Drunk
17 Extremely Festive Ways To Get Drunk
Gingerbread Cocktail Polish off your meal with this boozy chocolatey treat. Recipe here . Jack Frost Cocktail Winter look, tropical taste. Recipe here . Cranberry and Ginger Ale Punch As with most big batch cocktails, this mixture is deceptively boozy, so pace yourself. Recipe here . Lemon Blueberry Vodka Spritzer Dress up clear, plain-looking drinks with fruit and herb garnishes. Recipe here . White Chocolate Snowflake Martini Because white chocolate liqueur IS a thing. Recipe here . Spiced Coffee Nog Cocktail If you’re a fan of eggnog, you’ll love this caffeinated cocktail kicked up with rum. Recipe here . Plum and Thyme Prosecco Smash A refreshing lemon-infused drink to wash down Christmas brunch. Recipe here . RumChata Eggnog Horchata + rum + pinch of spice = RumChata . Recipe here . Sparkling Pomegranate Mimosa A Christmas riff on your weekend favorite. Recipe here . Rosemary Orange Vodka Spritzer Freshen up between courses with this fragrant, orange-infused spritzer. Recipe here . Spiked Peppermint Hot Chocolate This tastes just as delicious without the booze but who else is going to finish the Bailey’s? Recipe here . Rosemary Spritzer The rosemary will lend your drink a nice, herbal aroma. Recipe here . Pumpkin Almond Cocktail Pumpkin Spice Latte’s better half. Recipe here . Cranberry Orange Mulled Wine The trick to a good mulled wine is to simmer it over low heat and let the wine slowly absorb all the spices. Recipe here . Peppermint Mocha White Russian Boozy desserts are the best desserts. Recipe here . Cranberry St. Germain Cocktail Nothing says Happy Holidays like a sparkly lime sugar rim. Recipe here . Hot Buttered Rum Like butterbeer, but for muggles. Recipe here .   This Visually Pleasing Food Quiz Will Predict How Many...    I Used 2 Chainz’s Cookbook To Learn How To Cook  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.