Holiday Travelers Gripe as Delays Pile Up at Los Angeles International Airport
Holiday Travelers Gripe as Delays Pile Up at Los Angeles International Airport
Shares               Dissatisfied travelers took to social media over delays piling up at Los Angeles International Airport on Wednesday evening into Thursday, two of the busiest travel days of the year. The airport racked up 434 delays and 59 cancellations on Wednesday, according to statistics from FlightAware.com. In the early morning hours Thursday, LAX led FlightAware's misery index, with 62 delays and 10 cancellations. Denver International Airport came in second, with 22 delays.  This is the line trying to get to @united after they cancelled at least five flights at LAX tonight. Lost a day of family time. Thanks! pic.twitter.com/upPT4dAejV  LAX officials say construction at the airport, rain and the increased number of flights and passengers contributed to the problems. Several inbound flights were diverted to cities like Phoenix and San Francisco.  LAX experiencing major delays, traffic jams due to construction, holiday rush pic.twitter.com/KMi1dEqqTL  Delays Thursday morning in and out of LAX were running 45 minutes to an hour  Shares                  Holiday Travelers Gripe as Delays Pile Up at Los Angeles International Airport   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Trump: Allow Those Into US Who 'Want to Love Our Country'   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

Dissatisfied travelers took to social media over delays piling up at Los Angeles International Airport on Wednesday evening into Thursday, two of the busiest travel days of the year.

The airport racked up 434 delays and 59 cancellations on Wednesday, according to statistics from FlightAware.com.

In the early morning hours Thursday, LAX led FlightAware's misery index, with 62 delays and 10 cancellations. Denver International Airport came in second, with 22 delays.

This is the line trying to get to @united after they cancelled at least five flights at LAX tonight. Lost a day of family time. Thanks! pic.twitter.com/upPT4dAejV — Big Skeezy (@BigSkeezyCS) December 22, 2016

LAX officials say construction at the airport, rain and the increased number of flights and passengers contributed to the problems. Several inbound flights were diverted to cities like Phoenix and San Francisco.

LAX experiencing major delays, traffic jams due to construction, holiday rush pic.twitter.com/KMi1dEqqTL — ABC7 Eyewitness News (@ABC7) December 22, 2016

Delays Thursday morning in and out of LAX were running 45 minutes to an hour

ABC News' Alex Stone, Jonah Lustig and Matt Foster contributed to this report.