Netflix US Twitter account hacked by OurMine
Netflix US Twitter account hacked by OurMine
Hackers Netflix US Twitter account hacked by OurMine By  File photo: The Netflix sign on is shown on an iPad in Encinitas, California, April 19,2013. (REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo) The hacking group known for infiltrating the social media accounts of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg , Google CEO Sundar Pichai , and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey is at it again. This time, OurMine gained access to another high profile target: the Netflix US Twitter account, which boasts some 2.48 million followers. The group on Wednesday posted a number of messages, promoting its own Web security services, from the Netflix account. "Hey, it's OurMine," one of the tweets reads. "Don't worry we are just testing your security, contact us to tell you more about that." The message also includes an email address for the group, and an image of the OurMine logo. Several of the messages posted Wednesday morning were quickly deleted, only to be replaced by new ones. More From PCmag  Best Buy Tips Last-Minute Holiday Deals   Mazda's Bio-Plastic for Cars Doesn't Need Painting   Save $250 on Kaby Lake Dell XPS 13 Laptop   The Best Smart Home Devices of 2017  Netflix did not immediately respond to PCMag's request for comment about the hack. OurMine made a name for itself this year, and was especially active over the summer, hacking several high-profile social media accounts including those mentioned above. The group in July claimed responsibility for taking Niantic's Pokemon Go offline . At the time, an alleged OurMine member told PCMag via email that the three-person team is "just trying to protect [companies'] servers." "We wrote we will stop the attack if any [Niantic] staff talked with us, because we will teach them how to protect their servers," the anonymous representative said. The group says if it doesn't break into celebrity accounts and knock games offline, someone else will. OurMine via its website offers email and social media account security as well as "top notch" vulnerability assessment. This article originally appeared on PCMag.com .

The hacking group known for infiltrating the social media accounts of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey is at it again.

This time, OurMine gained access to another high profile target: the Netflix US Twitter account, which boasts some 2.48 million followers. The group on Wednesday posted a number of messages, promoting its own Web security services, from the Netflix account.

"Hey, it's OurMine," one of the tweets reads. "Don't worry we are just testing your security, contact us to tell you more about that." The message also includes an email address for the group, and an image of the OurMine logo.

Several of the messages posted Wednesday morning were quickly deleted, only to be replaced by new ones.

Netflix did not immediately respond to PCMag's request for comment about the hack.

OurMine made a name for itself this year, and was especially active over the summer, hacking several high-profile social media accounts including those mentioned above.

The group in July claimed responsibility for taking Niantic's Pokemon Go offline. At the time, an alleged OurMine member told PCMag via email that the three-person team is "just trying to protect [companies'] servers."

"We wrote we will stop the attack if any [Niantic] staff talked with us, because we will teach them how to protect their servers," the anonymous representative said.

The group says if it doesn't break into celebrity accounts and knock games offline, someone else will. OurMine via its website offers email and social media account security as well as "top notch" vulnerability assessment.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.