Pictured: The father of the Berlin truck attack suspect
Father of the Berlin suspect calls son a ‘troublemaker’


The heartbroken family of the Berlin terror suspect have pleaded with him to give himself up to police and warned that they will disown him.

Anis Amri, who turns 24 on Thursday, is the main suspect in the attack on the Christmas market in the German capital which killed 12 people and is now the subject of a international manhunt.

He is originally from Tunisia but left seven years ago to travel Italy and it is thought he entered Germany just over a year ago. His family believe he may have been radicalised while in prison in Italy.

Amri's brother Abdelkader, who says he will disown his brother if it is proved he carried out the Berlin attack

His other brother Walid, right, also weeps outside the family home in Tunisia and says the family will disown him

Both Walid, left, and Abdelkader, right, were pictured weeping as they talked to reporters outside the family home

The family pose outside their home in the small town of Oueslatia and beg for Anis Amri to give himself up to police

Mustapha and Nourhane Amri, the suspect's parents have also said they are shocked their son might be implicated in the attack

And today his relatives who still live in the small Tunisian town of Oueslatia appeared outside their home where they tearfully called for him to go the authorities.

His brother Abdelkader told reporters: 'I ask him to turn himself in to the police. If it is proved that he is involved, we dissociate ourselves from it.

'When I saw the picture of my brother in the media, I couldn't believe my eyes. I'm in shock, and can't believe it's him who committed this crime.

'If he's guilty, he deserves every condemnation. We reject terrorism and terrorists - we have no dealings with terrorists.'

Meanwhile his sister Najoua added: 'I can't believe my brother could do such a thing.'

Amri, left, who turns 24 on Thursday, is the main suspect in the attack on the Christmas market in the German capital and is now the subject of a international manhunt. Pictured right is his mother Nourhane

The family of Anis Amri sits around a portrait of him in their home in Oueslatia, Tunisia

'He never made us feel there was anything wrong. We were in touch through Facebook and he was always smiling and cheerful.'

It comes after his father Mustapha was also pictured outside his run-down shack of a home in Oueslatia, where his wanted child Anis Amri grew up.

He was pictured steering his horse and makeshift cart along the street before stopping to talk to his other son, Walid.

It comes after Mr Amri told the Times that even before his son left for Italy, he had been in trouble with the law after turning to drugs and dropping out of school.

He said: 'He was like all the other kids in the village, he went to primary school near here, and continued his secondary school in Kairouan but he dropped out due to poverty.

Mustapha Amri, the father of Berlin truck attack suspect Anis Amri, who has been pictured outside his home in Tunisia today

Mr Amri stops to speak with his other son Walid. He has previously said how his son had run-ins with the law in Tunisia after he turned to drugs

Amri's father also said that his son left Tunisia about seven years ago and spent four years in a prison in Italy after being accused in a fire at a school

'He worked in farm fields and sometimes with street vendors. He drank with his friends, which led to his arrest several times. His name also came up in many court cases regarding his use of cannabis, robbery and violence.'

Meanwhile, Mosaique FM quoted Amri's father as also saying that his son left Tunisia about seven years ago and spent four years in a prison in Italy after being accused in a fire at a school.

He then moved to Germany more than a year ago. The father did not provide details and said he had no contact with his son, although his brothers did.

A map showing the route that Amri took from leaving Tunisia to arriving in Berlin earlier this year

He added: 'He called his siblings but never spoke to me, he never sent money, but he once sent a mobile phone and a box of chocolates with a Tunisian friend of his who lived in Italy.'

Meanwhile, authorities have also confirmed that the suspect has a history of petty crime and drug dealing.

Amri's asylum-office papers for a stay of deportation in Germany were found in the cab of the 40-tonne lorry that cut a swathe of death and destruction through the festive crowd.

The warrant said the dark-haired, brown-eyed and possibly bearded suspect had used six false names as he dodged security services and mingled with radical Islamist preachers, some of whom are now in custody.

Amri's asylum-office papers for a stay of deportation in Germany were found in the cab of the 40-tonne lorry, pictured, that cut a swathe of death and destruction through the festive crowd

The aftermath of the attack on the Christmas market in Berlin which shows some of the stalls that have been destroyed

He had already been in the cross-hairs of counter-terror agencies, and a probe had been launched suspecting he was preparing 'a serious act of violence against the state,' said Ralf Jaeger, interior minister of North Rhine-Westphalia state.

The Berlin prosecutors, who were in charge of the case, said Amri had been suspected of planning a burglary meant to raise cash to buy automatic weapons, 'possibly to carry out an attack'.