As Bizarre As It May Sound, SRK Feels That None Of His Performances Deserve A National Award
As Bizarre As It May Sound, SRK Feels That None Of His Performances Deserve A National Award
As Bizarre As It May Sound, SRK Feels That None Of His Performances Deserve A National Award The King Khan of Bollywood, Shah Rukh is not just an actor, he’s a full-throttle brand. With so many awards in his kitty and worldwide accolade, surprisingly, SRK is yet to receive a National Award. It so happened that in his 24-year-long career, the Dear Zindagi actor hasn’t received even one national award. As unbelievable as it may sound, SRK himself, believes that he not worthy of the honor! "It's kind of audience, jury members and filmmakers that I have won so many awards. For me, to sit back and think about winning award for that (film), it would be demeaning any award. If I did not get it, I don't deserve it," Shah Rukh Khan told reporters at an event. What’s more, he even feels that none of his performances till date deserve such a great honor! "I don't think there is any performance of mine till date that could or should have got national award. I don't perform according to winning awards. If I don't get an award I don't deserve it," he said. When he was asked if he would consider retirement after winning a National Award, a witty SRK replied, "I think that's why I haven't received any yet." Well, call it wit or humility, SRK is our king of hearts. Period.

The King Khan of Bollywood, Shah Rukh is not just an actor, he’s a full-throttle brand. With so many awards in his kitty and worldwide accolade, surprisingly, SRK is yet to receive a National Award. It so happened that in his 24-year-long career, the Dear Zindagi actor hasn’t received even one national award. As unbelievable as it may sound, SRK himself, believes that he not worthy of the honor!

pinterest

"It's kind of audience, jury members and filmmakers that I have won so many awards. For me, to sit back and think about winning award for that (film), it would be demeaning any award. If I did not get it, I don't deserve it," Shah Rukh Khan told reporters at an event.

HD Wallpapers

What’s more, he even feels that none of his performances till date deserve such a great honor!

"I don't think there is any performance of mine till date that could or should have got national award. I don't perform according to winning awards. If I don't get an award I don't deserve it," he said.

techstory.com

When he was asked if he would consider retirement after winning a National Award, a witty SRK replied, "I think that's why I haven't received any yet."

Well, call it wit or humility, SRK is our king of hearts. Period.