Hear Metallica's Lars Ulrich Read 'The Dinosaur That Pooped Christmas'
Hear Metallica's Lars Ulrich Read 'The Dinosaur That Pooped Christmas'
Hear Metallica's Lars Ulrich Read 'The Dinosaur That Pooped Christmas'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Metallica ’s Lars Ulrich stopped by for a chat with Jo Whiley on her BBC Radio 2 show Dec. 21 and showed off his holiday spirit by reading the children’s book . It may be hard to imagine the drummer reading a children’s story, but of all the books out there this one seems to be pretty metal. Me: What book do you want to read? Buzz:... ------------ A photo posted by TomFletcher (@tomfletcher) on Written by Tom Fletcher and Dougie Poynter -- both from the UK pop punk band McFly -- Fletcher described the book as being “about a boy who gets a dinosaur for Christmas which goes on an unstoppable festive eating rampage until Christmas is gone. The only way to get Christmas back is for the dinosaur to poop it out.” Use the link in the tweet below to hear Ulrich relay the delightful Christmas story. Metallica's Lars Ulrich reads "The Dinosaur That Pooped Christmas" - a -- by two of McFly https://t.co/3tPS3WT85x  pic.twitter.com/YSjeyivwnk  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Lars Ulrich of Metallica speaks on stage in the press room at the 31st Annual Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame Induction Ceremony at Barclays Center on April 8, 2016 in New York City. Â

Metallica’s Lars Ulrich stopped by for a chat with Jo Whiley on her BBC Radio 2 show Dec. 21 and showed off his holiday spirit by reading the children’s book The Dinosaur That Pooped Christmas.

It may be hard to imagine the drummer reading a children’s story, but of all the books out there this one seems to be pretty metal.

Me: What book do you want to read? Buzz:... ------------ A photo posted by TomFletcher (@tomfletcher) on Dec 24, 2015 at 12:40pm PST



Written by Tom Fletcher and Dougie Poynter -- both from the UK pop punk band McFly -- Fletcher described the book as being “about a boy who gets a dinosaur for Christmas which goes on an unstoppable festive eating rampage until Christmas is gone. The only way to get Christmas back is for the dinosaur to poop it out.”

Use the link in the tweet below to hear Ulrich relay the delightful Christmas story.