Odell Beckham Jr. Calls NFL Out for Fining Him for Craig Sager Cleats
Odell Beckham Jr. Calls NFL Out for Fining Him for Craig Sager Cleats
On Wednesday, DeSean Jackson received a fine for wearing a pair of special-edition cleats that the NFL apparently didn’t approve of during the Redskins' game against the Panthers on Monday night, and he sounded off about it on Instagram: Got fined for Wearing these Monday night ' special edition #DJX clearly they Team colors smh ' A photo posted by Desean Jackson (@0ne0fone) on Dec 21, 2016 at 11:33am PST Jackson wasn’t the only NFL wide receiver to get fined for doing it, either. The NFL has been going after guys all season long for wearing custom cleats, and it seems that, in addition to fining the Redskins' wideout, they also fined Odell Beckham Jr. for the footwear he wore on Sunday against the Lions. Beckham wore a pair of cleats in honor of Craig Sager that were auctioned off after the game to benefit cancer research. But according to him, the NFL didn’t care that they were for a good cause and fined him anyway. He left this comment on Jackson’s Instagram page on Wednesday afternoon: Beckham continued on Thursday morning by responding to a fan who sent out a tweet about his fine. He seemed to take issue with the fact that the NFL didn’t warn him for wearing the cleats and said that he feels the NFL has "no respect" for the message he was trying to send with his Sager shoes: 18k without a single warning , but the world would never kno, they act like it's no big deal. No respect for the message IMO https://t.co/Ym30L1FnCP Beckham also retweeted this message from reporter Taylor Rooks: @SInow  @OBJ_3 this is ridiculous...obj is officiated and monitored differently than other players. Let players honor what they want to This comes just a few days after Beckham questioned the NFL’s decision not to fine Ezekiel Elliott for jumping into a Salvation Army kettle as part of a touchdown celebration on Sunday night. He thinks that he would have been treated much differently by the league if he had done something like that, and, well, he’s probably not wrong. The NFL does seem to enjoy fining Beckham , and there’s a good chance he would have been docked some pay if he had used a Salvation Army kettle as a prop during a celebration. At any rate, Beckham and the Giants will take the field against the Eagles on Thursday night with a playoff berth on the line. We wouldn’t expect to see Beckham in any crazy cleats, but then again, this OBJ we’re talking about so we also wouldn’t put it past him.

On Wednesday, DeSean Jackson received a fine for wearing a pair of special-edition cleats that the NFL apparently didn’t approve of during the Redskins' game against the Panthers on Monday night, and he sounded off about it on Instagram:

Got fined for Wearing these Monday night ' special edition #DJX clearly they Team colors smh ' A photo posted by Desean Jackson (@0ne0fone) on Dec 21, 2016 at 11:33am PST

Jackson wasn’t the only NFL wide receiver to get fined for doing it, either. The NFL has been going after guys all season long for wearing custom cleats, and it seems that, in addition to fining the Redskins' wideout, they also fined Odell Beckham Jr. for the footwear he wore on Sunday against the Lions.

Beckham wore a pair of cleats in honor of Craig Sager that were auctioned off after the game to benefit cancer research. But according to him, the NFL didn’t care that they were for a good cause and fined him anyway. He left this comment on Jackson’s Instagram page on Wednesday afternoon:

Image via Instagram

Beckham continued on Thursday morning by responding to a fan who sent out a tweet about his fine. He seemed to take issue with the fact that the NFL didn’t warn him for wearing the cleats and said that he feels the NFL has "no respect" for the message he was trying to send with his Sager shoes:

18k without a single warning , but the world would never kno, they act like it's no big deal. No respect for the message IMO https://t.co/Ym30L1FnCP — Odell Beckham Jr (@OBJ_3) December 22, 2016

Beckham also retweeted this message from SportsNet New York reporter Taylor Rooks:

@SInow @OBJ_3 this is ridiculous...obj is officiated and monitored differently than other players. Let players honor what they want to — Taylor Rooks (@TaylorRooks) December 22, 2016

This comes just a few days after Beckham questioned the NFL’s decision not to fine Ezekiel Elliott for jumping into a Salvation Army kettle as part of a touchdown celebration on Sunday night. He thinks that he would have been treated much differently by the league if he had done something like that, and, well, he’s probably not wrong. The NFL does seem to enjoy fining Beckham, and there’s a good chance he would have been docked some pay if he had used a Salvation Army kettle as a prop during a celebration.

At any rate, Beckham and the Giants will take the field against the Eagles on Thursday night with a playoff berth on the line. We wouldn’t expect to see Beckham in any crazy cleats, but then again, this is OBJ we’re talking about so we also wouldn’t put it past him.