Donald Trump Adviser Kellyanne Conway Joining White House Team
Trump Adviser Kellyanne Conway Joining White House Team
Shares                Donald Trump has named senior transition team member Kellyanne Conway counselor to the president. Conway, the first female campaign manager to steer a winning presidential bid, will continue to advise Trump in the White House and help coordinate his administration’s messaging. She was his third campaign manager, after Corey Lewandowski and Paul Manafort . “Kellyanne Conway has been a trusted advisor and strategist who played a crucial role in my victory,” Trump said in a statement. “She is a tireless and tenacious advocate of my agenda and has amazing insights on how to effectively communicate our message.” Conway was planning to move her family to Washington from New Jersey. She had been considering whether to help Trump’s efforts from outside the White House and spoke frequently about building out a political “superstructure” to help amplify his message. “I want to thank the president-elect for this amazing opportunity,” she said in a statement. “A Trump presidency will bring real change to Washington and to Americans across this great nation.”  Shares                  Trump Adviser Kellyanne Conway Joining White House Team   Appeals Court to Decide on Challenge to Trump's Immigration Executive Order   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban but Regrets Quick Rollout   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Lawmakers' Phones Ring Off the Hook Over Trump's Education Pick   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   The Note: A Day of Tests for Trump   2 Other Times Kellyanne Conway Referred to Bowling Green 'Massacre' or 'Attack'   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms

Donald Trump has named senior transition team member Kellyanne Conway counselor to the president.

Conway, the first female campaign manager to steer a winning presidential bid, will continue to advise Trump in the White House and help coordinate his administration’s messaging. She was his third campaign manager, after Corey Lewandowski and Paul Manafort.

“Kellyanne Conway has been a trusted advisor and strategist who played a crucial role in my victory,” Trump said in a statement. “She is a tireless and tenacious advocate of my agenda and has amazing insights on how to effectively communicate our message.”

Conway was planning to move her family to Washington from New Jersey. She had been considering whether to help Trump’s efforts from outside the White House and spoke frequently about building out a political “superstructure” to help amplify his message.

“I want to thank the president-elect for this amazing opportunity,” she said in a statement. “A Trump presidency will bring real change to Washington and to Americans across this great nation.”