Seth Meyers Takes a Closer Look at Trump's White House Full of Climate Change Deniers
Seth Meyers Takes a Closer Look at Trump's White House Full of Climate Change Deniers
As we dive deeper into what is arguably the shittiest holiday season in history, the fate of the planet hangs in the balance. As Seth Meyers explained on Wednesday's , Trump's White House team of climate change deniers practically ensures literal doom and gloom for the years ahead. "Climate scientists now say 2016 will be the hottest year in Earth's recorded history, which means 16 of the 17 hottest years on record have come since 2000," Meyers said during the latest edition of his "A Closer Look" segment. This unsettling climate record, the Cubs' World Series win, and Trump's victory qualify as what Meyers described as "three out of the four horsemen of the apocalypse." If Robert De Niro and Zac Efron's bags an Oscar, Meyers noted, that's the final blow. "[Trump's] statements on climate change have not been promising," Meyers added, "like his infamous claim that the 'concept of global warming' was created by and for the Chinese, as opposed to Trump, who was created by and for the Russians." Still, investing in clean energy—a solid move for both climate and industry—seems like something we can agree on, yeah? Apparently not. "Trump even seems to have a bizarre vendetta against wind power in particular," Meyers said. "If you watched his rallies at all this year, you might have noticed that his hatred of windmills is kind of an obsession for him." Meyers then played a clip of Trump complaining about how "the wind kills all your birds," presumably a problem for him given that these alleged birds must then relocate to their new home: Look at all that potential bird property!

As we dive deeper into what is arguably the shittiest holiday season in history, the fate of the planet hangs in the balance. As Seth Meyers explained on Wednesday's Late Night, Trump's White House team of climate change deniers practically ensures literal doom and gloom for the years ahead.

"Climate scientists now say 2016 will be the hottest year in Earth's recorded history, which means 16 of the 17 hottest years on record have come since 2000," Meyers said during the latest edition of his "A Closer Look" segment. This unsettling climate record, the Cubs' World Series win, and Trump's victory qualify as what Meyers described as "three out of the four horsemen of the apocalypse." If Robert De Niro and Zac Efron's Dirty Grandpa bags an Oscar, Meyers noted, that's the final blow.

"[Trump's] statements on climate change have not been promising," Meyers added, "like his infamous claim that the 'concept of global warming' was created by and for the Chinese, as opposed to Trump, who was created by and for the Russians." Still, investing in clean energy—a solid move for both climate and industry—seems like something we all can agree on, yeah? Apparently not.

"Trump even seems to have a bizarre vendetta against wind power in particular," Meyers said. "If you watched his rallies at all this year, you might have noticed that his hatred of windmills is kind of an obsession for him." Meyers then played a clip of Trump complaining about how "the wind kills all your birds," presumably a problem for him given that these alleged birds must then relocate to their new home:

Look at all that potential bird property!