Obama Bans Oil And Gas Drilling In Arctic, Setting Up Showdown With Trump
Obama Bans Oil And Gas Drilling In Arctic, Setting Up Showdown With Trump
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ken Silverstein       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. U.S. President Barack Obama speaks in the Roosevelt Room at the White House with U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Nov. 6, 2015. (Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg) Earlier this year, the Obama administration banned exploration in the Arctic's Beaufort and Chukchi seas till 2022. But on Tuesday, Obama declared that drilling would no longer be allowed in those waters, except for one coastal area. Canada, meanwhile, announced a similar ban in the Canadian Arctic, although it will revisit the issue every five years. The U.S.-controlled portion of the Arctic is believed to hold 27 billion barrels of oil and 132 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The Minerals Management Service has said that altogether, 86 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 420 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas lies within the U.S. areas of the Gulf of Mexico, Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean. The indefinite drilling moratorium, which includes coral-rich canyons running from Maine to Virginia, are likely to be challenged in federal court. Oil and gas companies want access to the Arctic because it is awash with those resources, although much of the supply is located in treacherous conditions. Current prices, meanwhile, have not justified the risk. Still, winning the right to drill would be major boon to the industry -- if not now, then at some point in the mid-term. Indeed, the American Petroleum Institute says that Obama's proclamation can be reversed and that doing so would mean giving the United States more energy security. It says that the technology to drill successfully is available today -- and that much of the oil and gas could be harnessed from shallow waters. “The Administration has always justified a ban on Arctic development because of an alleged lack of local support or industry interest," adds Lucas Frances, spokesperson for the Arctic Energy Center . "The Arctic Energy Center’s research categorically shows that that is simply not true, with almost three quarters of Native respondents supporting offshore energy. Taken with last week’s news that sales of Beaufort Sea and North Slope leases generated $18 million, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the Obama Administration is playing politics with the future of Alaska.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

While it is the remote northwest corner of the United States, the Arctic region is ground zero when it comes to Big Oil versus the environmental movement. And Tuesday, President Obama gave the green movement a very big present when his administration banned oil and gas drilling off the shores of Alaska, as well as on the Atlantic Coast.

The question now is whether the president's move will hold -- the White House claims the ban, based on a creative use of the 1953 Outer Continental Shelves Land Act, is permanent -- or whether it can be cast aside by the incoming Trump administration, which has vowed to increase domestic oil and gas production.

Earlier this year, the Obama administration banned exploration in the Arctic's Beaufort and Chukchi seas till 2022. But on Tuesday, Obama declared that drilling would no longer be allowed in those waters, except for one coastal area. Canada, meanwhile, announced a similar ban in the Canadian Arctic, although it will revisit the issue every five years.

"Today’s announcement is a major victory for our oceans and climate," says Marissa Knodel, climate campaigner for Friends of the Earth. "Our offshore areas need permanent protection in the face of Donald Trump’s pledge to expand offshore drilling and his cabinet’s ties to Big Oil. We must afford the same protections to the people of the Gulf of Mexico, which has become an energy sacrifice zone."

The U.S.-controlled portion of the Arctic is believed to hold 27 billion barrels of oil and 132 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The Minerals Management Service has said that altogether, 86 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 420 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas lies within the U.S. areas of the Gulf of Mexico, Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean.

The indefinite drilling moratorium, which includes coral-rich canyons running from Maine to Virginia, are likely to be challenged in federal court.

Oil and gas companies want access to the Arctic because it is awash with those resources, although much of the supply is located in treacherous conditions. Current prices, meanwhile, have not justified the risk. Still, winning the right to drill would be major boon to the industry -- if not now, then at some point in the mid-term.

Indeed, the American Petroleum Institute says that Obama's proclamation can be reversed and that doing so would mean giving the United States more energy security. It says that the technology to drill successfully is available today -- and that much of the oil and gas could be harnessed from shallow waters.

“The Administration has always justified a ban on Arctic development because of an alleged lack of local support or industry interest," adds Lucas Frances, spokesperson for the Arctic Energy Center. "The Arctic Energy Center’s research categorically shows that that is simply not true, with almost three quarters of Native respondents supporting offshore energy. Taken with last week’s news that sales of Beaufort Sea and North Slope leases generated $18 million, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the Obama Administration is playing politics with the future of Alaska.”

A strong majority of Alaskans (76%) and Native groups (79%) are in favor of Arctic offshore energy development, the energy center says.

President Obama in January 2015 designated portions of the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas off limits from consideration for future oil and gas leasing to protect the area’s sensitive environmental resources. He then said that he would review the policy.Initially, he placed a five-year ban there but today, he indefinitely extended the time period.

Previously, Royal Dutch Shell spent more than $7 billion in the Arctic, only to come up empty. It pulled out in 2015. Conditions are harsh there, which not only increases the financial risks but it also raises the environmental risks if something goes wrong.