Twinkle Khanna Had The Best Reaction After Seeing A Vendor Sell Pirated Copies Of Her Books
Twinkle Khanna Had The Best Reaction After Seeing A Vendor Sell Pirated Copies Of Her Books
Twinkle Khanna Had The Best Reaction After Seeing A Vendor Sell Pirated Copies Of Her Books Akshay Kumar is one kind-hearted man and we have time and again seen that. The way he has helped the society says a lot about the man that he is. However, it's not just Akshay. Twinkle Khanna too has a heart of gold and her latest Instagram post speak volumes about it. After her first book MrsFunnyBones, her second book The Legend Of Lakshmi Prasad is a big hit too. However, yesterday, she saw a street-vendor selling the pirated copies of her books. Instead of reacting negatively to it, Twinkle Khanna saw the silver lining and shared a picture with a positive message. She wrote, "The silver lining to this inky cloud-pirated or otherwise, clearly I am still not past my sell-by date :) #thelegendoflakshmiprasad #mrsfunnybones" The silver lining to this inky cloud-pirated or otherwise, clearly I am still not past my sell-by date :) #thelegendoflakshmiprasad #mrsfunnybones A photo posted by Twinkle Khanna (@twinklerkhanna) on Dec 20, 2016 at 9:33pm PST

Akshay Kumar is one kind-hearted man and we have time and again seen that. The way he has helped the society says a lot about the man that he is. However, it's not just Akshay. Twinkle Khanna too has a heart of gold and her latest Instagram post speak volumes about it.

After her first book MrsFunnyBones, her second book The Legend Of Lakshmi Prasad is a big hit too. However, yesterday, she saw a street-vendor selling the pirated copies of her books. Instead of reacting negatively to it, Twinkle Khanna saw the silver lining and shared a picture with a positive message.

She wrote,

"The silver lining to this inky cloud-pirated or otherwise, clearly I am still not past my sell-by date :) #thelegendoflakshmiprasad #mrsfunnybones"

The silver lining to this inky cloud-pirated or otherwise, clearly I am still not past my sell-by date :) #thelegendoflakshmiprasad #mrsfunnybones A photo posted by Twinkle Khanna (@twinklerkhanna) on Dec 20, 2016 at 9:33pm PST