North Carolina, Berlin, Delta: Your Thursday Briefing
North Carolina, Berlin, Delta: Your Thursday Briefing
Intelligence officials in Europe and the U.S. were alarmed to learn that a Tunisian man named Anis Amri was a suspect in the rampage that killed 12 people at a Christmas market this week. Mr. Amri had previously been in German custody, after being caught with fake papers, and he was supposed to have been deported months ago. He has also been linked to a radical preacher who was recently charged with recruiting terrorists. A bipartisan effort to repeal the state’s so-called bathroom law , which limits legal protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, fell apart Wednesday night. The law has prompted many high-profile boycotts by sports organizations and entertainers. Advertisement “We came here to solve a problem that apparently nobody had any clear idea as to how it was going to be solved,” one lawmaker said. Advertisement Kellyanne Conway will be appointed counselor to President-elect Donald J. Trump, becoming the highest-ranking woman in his White House, transition officials announced today. The Republican strategist had served as Mr. Trump’s campaign manager since August. Separately, Mr. Trump’s son Eric Trump says he will no longer directly solicit contributions for charities because of the potential for donors to try to use him to gain access to his father. Warm temperatures in the Arctic in recent months could lead to record-low levels of ice this summer, with cascading effects around the globe. In mid-November, parts of the Arctic were more than 35 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than observed averages, scientists said. Over all, 2016 broke the Arctic’s record for the warmest year. “We’re going to be watching the summer of 2017 very closely,” one scientist said. About 6.4 million people have signed up for insurance next year under the Affordable Care Act , the Obama administration said. That’s 400,000 more than at a similar point last year, a sign that people are rushing to enroll even as Mr. Trump vows to repeal the law. The five states with the most people enrolling on the HealthCare.gov site through Monday were Florida, Texas, North Carolina, Georgia and Pennsylvania. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business after Adam Saleh and Slim Albaher, two Muslim American YouTube stars, said they were kicked off a flight because they were speaking Arabic . Mr. Saleh, who has a history of video hoaxes to expose stereotypes against Muslims, insisted that Wednesday’s episode wasn’t a stunt. Advertisement regularly use WhatsApp to send text messages and make free calls over the internet. The app, which was created by a Ukrainian immigrant to the U.S., has helped transform the experiences of migrants, allowing them to stay connected with family members and to share tips. has generally led to the creation of jobs even as it has displaced old ones, our writer says. But some experts worry that things are changing: Existing technology could automate 45 percent of the tasks workers now perform, a recent report suggests. were down on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Noteworthy Sit With Santa at the Arctic Circle Santa Claus Village in Finland attracts half a million visitors a year. Join the elves (postal workers) as they sort through some 700,000 letters to Santa.      Our latest 360 video takes you to Santa Claus Village in Finland, where the elves (postal workers) sort through about 700,000 letters. Also, read about a black mother who took her young son, whose father is white, to see a black Santa as well as a white one. “He has photographic evidence that Santa can reflect the skin tones of both sides of his family. And that’s, well, pretty magical,” she wrote. “I’m not interested much by what’s inside him.” That’s Alec Baldwin describing his approach to playing the president-elect on “Saturday Night Live.” Our interview with the actor is one of our most popular articles this week. Advertisement And Libby Chamberlain, the creator of the pro-Hillary Clinton Facebook group Pantsuit Nation, has angered some members after she announced plans to publish a book drawing on their stories. Look back at the images that defined 2016. “It was a year so unexpected, so tumultuous, that the fight has just begun over which narrative might possibly explain it,” one of our editors writes. Consider having a lunch classic for dinner, and make this tuna salad sandwich with celery, red onion, red bell pepper and capers. Back Story The momentous changes in Cuba — a warming relationship with the U.S. and the recent death of Fidel Castro — have been accompanied by a surge in tourism. But Spanish-speaking visitors should be warned: Their vocabulary might not seamlessly translate to the streets of Havana. Want to know “What’s up?” The usual “Qué tal?” is “Qué bola?” People head home to “el gao” rather than “la casa,” and a carless Cuban rides “un chivo,” not “una bicicleta.” Language is usually fluid, but tightly controlled borders since 1961 blocked some linguistic seepage from the rest of the Hispanosphere. Such distinctions, shaped by geography and history, play out worldwide. There’s the French spoken in Canada, which can sound archaic to those from France. Not to mention the Portuguese spoken in Portugal versus that of its former colonies, including Angola, Brazil and Mozambique. The English language, carried by colonialism and capitalism, is all over the place. Advertisement There are lesser-known cases, too. Hungarian isn’t limited to Hungary: The Szeklers in Romania, and the Paloc in Slovakia, speak distinct versions. And in some places, languages marry when they meet. In Brazil, a tongue derived from German immigrants, Riograndenser Hunsrückish, blends Portuguese words with Teutonic suffixes and the lilt of Italian. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

“We came here to solve a problem that apparently nobody had any clear idea as to how it was going to be solved,” one lawmaker said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Trump’s transition.

Photo

Kellyanne Conway will be appointed counselor to President-elect Donald J. Trump, becoming the highest-ranking woman in his White House, transition officials announced today. The Republican strategist had served as Mr. Trump’s campaign manager since August.

Separately, Mr. Trump’s son Eric Trump says he will no longer directly solicit contributions for charities because of the potential for donors to try to use him to gain access to his father.

• The pace of climate change.

Warm temperatures in the Arctic in recent months could lead to record-low levels of ice this summer, with cascading effects around the globe.

In mid-November, parts of the Arctic were more than 35 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than observed averages, scientists said. Over all, 2016 broke the Arctic’s record for the warmest year.

“We’re going to be watching the summer of 2017 very closely,” one scientist said.

• Obamacare’s uncertain future.

About 6.4 million people have signed up for insurance next year under the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration said.

That’s 400,000 more than at a similar point last year, a sign that people are rushing to enroll even as Mr. Trump vows to repeal the law. The five states with the most people enrolling on the HealthCare.gov site through Monday were Florida, Texas, North Carolina, Georgia and Pennsylvania.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Delta is facing criticism after Adam Saleh and Slim Albaher, two Muslim American YouTube stars, said they were kicked off a flight because they were speaking Arabic.

Photo

Mr. Saleh, who has a history of video hoaxes to expose stereotypes against Muslims, insisted that Wednesday’s episode wasn’t a stunt.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• More than a billion people regularly use WhatsApp to send text messages and make free calls over the internet.

The app, which was created by a Ukrainian immigrant to the U.S., has helped transform the experiences of migrants, allowing them to stay connected with family members and to share tips.

• Automation in manufacturing has generally led to the creation of jobs even as it has displaced old ones, our writer says.

But some experts worry that things are changing: Existing technology could automate 45 percent of the tasks workers now perform, a recent report suggests.

• U.S. stocks were down on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Noteworthy

• Visiting Santa.

Video

Our latest 360 video takes you to Santa Claus Village in Finland, where the elves (postal workers) sort through about 700,000 letters.

Also, read about a black mother who took her young son, whose father is white, to see a black Santa as well as a white one. “He has photographic evidence that Santa can reflect the skin tones of both sides of his family. And that’s, well, pretty magical,” she wrote.

• TV and books, political edition.

Photo

“I’m not interested much by what’s inside him.” That’s Alec Baldwin describing his approach to playing the president-elect on “Saturday Night Live.” Our interview with the actor is one of our most popular articles this week.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Libby Chamberlain, the creator of the pro-Hillary Clinton Facebook group Pantsuit Nation, has angered some members after she announced plans to publish a book drawing on their stories.

• Behold, the year in pictures.

Photo

Look back at the images that defined 2016. “It was a year so unexpected, so tumultuous, that the fight has just begun over which narrative might possibly explain it,” one of our editors writes.

• Recipe of the day.

Consider having a lunch classic for dinner, and make this tuna salad sandwich with celery, red onion, red bell pepper and capers.

Back Story

The momentous changes in Cuba — a warming relationship with the U.S. and the recent death of Fidel Castro — have been accompanied by a surge in tourism.

But Spanish-speaking visitors should be warned: Their vocabulary might not seamlessly translate to the streets of Havana.

Photo

Want to know “What’s up?” The usual “Qué tal?” is “Qué bola?” People head home to “el gao” rather than “la casa,” and a carless Cuban rides “un chivo,” not “una bicicleta.”

Language is usually fluid, but tightly controlled borders since 1961 blocked some linguistic seepage from the rest of the Hispanosphere.

Such distinctions, shaped by geography and history, play out worldwide.

There’s the French spoken in Canada, which can sound archaic to those from France. Not to mention the Portuguese spoken in Portugal versus that of its former colonies, including Angola, Brazil and Mozambique. The English language, carried by colonialism and capitalism, is all over the place.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There are lesser-known cases, too. Hungarian isn’t limited to Hungary: The Szeklers in Romania, and the Paloc in Slovakia, speak distinct versions.

And in some places, languages marry when they meet. In Brazil, a tongue derived from German immigrants, Riograndenser Hunsrückish, blends Portuguese words with Teutonic suffixes and the lilt of Italian.

Sandra E. Garcia and Palko Karasz contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.