Samsung Launching New Class Of TVs - Say Hello To QLED
Samsung Launching New Class Of TVs - Say Hello To QLED
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  John Archer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Samsung is set to unveil a new advanced generation of Quantum Dot TV technology at CES 2017 in January. According to reports, this new screen technology is going to be called ‘QLED’, and it supposedly solves most if not all of the traditional issues associated with LCD televisions, while also unlocking the potential of high dynamic range (HDR) technology like never before. The first indication that Samsung was about to deliver a seemingly dramatic leap forward with its third generation of Quantum Dot TVs came in a recent report on generally reliable Korean tech news site ETNews . This reported that Samsung Electronics had applied for a trio of eye-catching trademarks to apply to its new TVs: ‘HDR 1500’, ‘Q HDR’ and ‘Real Black’. Samsung's first QLED TVs are reckoned to outperform even Samsung's 2016 flagship TVs, the pictured KS9800 series, by up to 50%. (Pic: Samsung) The first of these terms clearly suggests that Samsung’s latest TVs will achieve light outputs of at least 1500 nits (2016’s models were marketed as ‘HDR 1000’ and cleared 1000 nits). The ‘Q HDR’ name suggests a desire by Samsung to equate Quantum Dots as key to a premium HDR experience. And ‘Real Black’ seems to be Samsung challenging rival OLED technology on its traditional ‘safe ground’ of black level response. The ETNews article goes on to suggest that the performance of Samsung’s 2017 TVs will exceed that of 2016 models by around 50%, and that Samsung intends to focus heavily on the concept of Color Volume in the marketing of the new TVs. Color volume is essentially about the way colors in the real world look when different levels of brightness are applied to them. Samsung sees this as a big deal for its new TVs because to reproduce color volume effectively you need a lot of brightness; something its ‘QLED’ TVs look set to have but which rival OLED TVs (as Samsung will doubtless be keen to point out!) traditionally struggle with. Samsung's QLED TVs are clearly designed to take the fight to LG OLED TVs like the OLED65E6. (Pic: LG) The ETNews story does not mention the QLED name. However, this key detail was confirmed to me when following up the ETNews story with a separate source at Samsung. According to this source (who wished to remain anonymous), Samsung didn’t think that sticking with its previous ‘SUHD’ TV terminology would reflect the extent of the advances it claims to have made with its third-gen Quantum Dot TVs. According to my contact, a few years ago Samsung built a Future TV Task Force into its TV Business Unit, with the aim of drawing on the knowledge and ideas of all areas of Samsung technology. The TVs Samsung is unveiling at CES are the result of this project. Samsung's QLED TVs will be unveiled at the CES in Las Vegas. (Pic: Consumer Technology Association) Apparently the next-generation innovations used in these LCD TVs introduce ‘perfect’ blacks alongside unprecedented brightness, as well as pictures that can be watched from any angle. The QLED name was seemingly chosen because it helps consumers understand that the new TVs use a combination of LED and Quantum Dot technologies. Some readers may recall that the QLED term was first coined by Quantum Dot maker QD Vision (which Samsung now owns) to describe an experimental emissive technology, where each pixel made its own light. However, my Samsung source assures me that the brand’s QLED TVs will be based for the foreseeable future on various edge and direct backlighting solutions. I approached Samsung for official comment on its QLED plans, but only got a fairly predictable ‘We don’t comment on rumors or speculation’ response. I’m also not yet able to confirm exactly what it is about Samsung’s latest Quantum Dot TVs that helps them deliver such a supposedly large jump in performance. All should be revealed as soon as January 3rd, though, when Samsung holds its now traditional TV unveiling event in Las Vegas a couple of days ahead of the official opening of the CES. — If this story was of interest to you, you might also like these: HDR Made Easy: A Jargon-Free Guide To The Next Big Thing In TV Technology Samsung UN65KS9800 Review: OLED’s Answer To OLED Samsung Adds YouTube HDR Support to 2016 TVs The 10 Best TVs You Can Buy Today    Trending on {{channel_name}}

[UPDATE: Since writing this article I've had an early look at Samsung's new QLED TVs - and it's fair to say they're looking pretty exciting. Follow this link to read my first impressions. Original news story follows below.]

Samsung is set to unveil a new advanced generation of Quantum Dot TV technology at CES 2017 in January. According to reports, this new screen technology is going to be called ‘QLED’, and it supposedly solves most if not all of the traditional issues associated with LCD televisions, while also unlocking the potential of high dynamic range (HDR) technology like never before.

The first indication that Samsung was about to deliver a seemingly dramatic leap forward with its third generation of Quantum Dot TVs came in a recent report on generally reliable Korean tech news site ETNews. This reported that Samsung Electronics had applied for a trio of eye-catching trademarks to apply to its new TVs: ‘HDR 1500’, ‘Q HDR’ and ‘Real Black’.

The first of these terms clearly suggests that Samsung’s latest TVs will achieve light outputs of at least 1500 nits (2016’s models were marketed as ‘HDR 1000’ and cleared 1000 nits). The ‘Q HDR’ name suggests a desire by Samsung to equate Quantum Dots as key to a premium HDR experience. And ‘Real Black’ seems to be Samsung challenging rival OLED technology on its traditional ‘safe ground’ of black level response.

Serious performance boost

The ETNews article goes on to suggest that the performance of Samsung’s 2017 TVs will exceed that of 2016 models by around 50%, and that Samsung intends to focus heavily on the concept of Color Volume in the marketing of the new TVs.

Color volume is essentially about the way colors in the real world look when different levels of brightness are applied to them. Samsung sees this as a big deal for its new TVs because to reproduce color volume effectively you need a lot of brightness; something its ‘QLED’ TVs look set to have but which rival OLED TVs (as Samsung will doubtless be keen to point out!) traditionally struggle with.

The ETNews story does not mention the QLED name. However, this key detail was confirmed to me when following up the ETNews story with a separate source at Samsung.

No more SUHD

According to this source (who wished to remain anonymous), Samsung didn’t think that sticking with its previous ‘SUHD’ TV terminology would reflect the extent of the advances it claims to have made with its third-gen Quantum Dot TVs.

According to my contact, a few years ago Samsung built a Future TV Task Force into its TV Business Unit, with the aim of drawing on the knowledge and ideas of all areas of Samsung technology. The TVs Samsung is unveiling at CES are the result of this project.

Apparently the next-generation innovations used in these LCD TVs introduce ‘perfect’ blacks alongside unprecedented brightness, as well as pictures that can be watched from any angle.

The QLED name was seemingly chosen because it helps consumers understand that the new TVs use a combination of LED and Quantum Dot technologies.

Some readers may recall that the QLED term was first coined by Quantum Dot maker QD Vision (which Samsung now owns) to describe an experimental emissive technology, where each pixel made its own light. However, my Samsung source assures me that the brand’s QLED TVs will be based for the foreseeable future on various edge and direct backlighting solutions.

I approached Samsung for official comment on its QLED plans, but only got a fairly predictable ‘We don’t comment on rumors or speculation’ response. I’m also not yet able to confirm exactly what it is about Samsung’s latest Quantum Dot TVs that helps them deliver such a supposedly large jump in performance.

All should be revealed as soon as January 3rd, though, when Samsung holds its now traditional TV unveiling event in Las Vegas a couple of days ahead of the official opening of the CES.

—

If this story was of interest to you, you might also like these:

HDR Made Easy: A Jargon-Free Guide To The Next Big Thing In TV Technology

Samsung UN65KS9800 Review: OLED’s Answer To OLED

Samsung Adds YouTube HDR Support to 2016 TVs

The 10 Best TVs You Can Buy Today

Follow me on Twitter @bigjohnnyarcher, Facebook or read my other Forbes articles via my profile page.