Saddam Hussein's Daughter Praises Donald Trump's 'Political Sensibility'
Saddam Hussein's Daughter Praises Donald Trump's 'Political Sensibility'
Raghad Saddam Hussein, one of deceased Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein 's daughters, praised president-elect Donald Trump for having "a high level of political sensibility" when she was interviewed by CNN this week. The interview was the first Hussein has given since her father was killed in 2006. "This man has just arrived to the leadership...But from what is apparent, this man has a high level of political sensibility, that is vastly different than the one who preceded him," Hussein told CNN. "He exposed the mistakes of the others, specifically in terms of Iraq, which means he is very aware of the mistakes made in Iraq and what happened to my father." Trump has repeatedly lied and denied he ever supported the Iraq war. It should also be noted that it would be hard for any person with access to TV or internet to not be aware of Saddam Hussein's fate, since his death dominated international news for days after he was killed in December 2006. The fact that the Bush administration was misinformed and driven by an alternate agenda in Iraq is also now widely known and acknowledged across the U.S. political spectrum; it is in no way unique to Trump. Regarding her father's death, Hussein told CNN, "I don't think he would have gone in a death smaller than this. It was a death that brought pride to me, my children, my sisters and their children, to all those who love him and have a place for him in their heart." She said she never watched footage of his execution. Trump praised Saddam Hussein during a campaign event in July, saying: "Saddam Hussein was a bad guy. Right? He was a bad guy, really bad guy. But you know what he did well? He killed terrorists. He did that so good. They didn't read them the rights—they didn't talk, they were a terrorist, it was over. Today, Iraq is Harvard for terrorism. You want to be a terrorist, you go to Iraq. It's like Harvard. Okay? So sad."

Raghad Saddam Hussein, one of deceased Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein's daughters, praised president-elect Donald Trump for having "a high level of political sensibility" when she was interviewed by CNN this week. The interview was the first Hussein has given since her father was killed in 2006.

"This man has just arrived to the leadership...But from what is apparent, this man has a high level of political sensibility, that is vastly different than the one who preceded him," Hussein told CNN. "He exposed the mistakes of the others, specifically in terms of Iraq, which means he is very aware of the mistakes made in Iraq and what happened to my father."

Trump has repeatedly lied and denied he ever supported the Iraq war. It should also be noted that it would be hard for any person with access to TV or internet to not be aware of Saddam Hussein's fate, since his death dominated international news for days after he was killed in December 2006. The fact that the Bush administration was misinformed and driven by an alternate agenda in Iraq is also now widely known and acknowledged across the U.S. political spectrum; it is in no way unique to Trump.

Regarding her father's death, Hussein told CNN, "I don't think he would have gone in a death smaller than this. It was a death that brought pride to me, my children, my sisters and their children, to all those who love him and have a place for him in their heart." She said she never watched footage of his execution.

Trump praised Saddam Hussein during a campaign event in July, saying: "Saddam Hussein was a bad guy. Right? He was a bad guy, really bad guy. But you know what he did well? He killed terrorists. He did that so good. They didn't read them the rights—they didn't talk, they were a terrorist, it was over. Today, Iraq is Harvard for terrorism. You want to be a terrorist, you go to Iraq. It's like Harvard. Okay? So sad."