5 Last-Minute Gifts Ideas For Music Loving Sneakerheads
5 Last-Minute Gifts Ideas For Music Loving Sneakerheads
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) 5 Last-Minute Gifts Ideas For Music Loving Sneakerheads  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The holiday shopping season is winding down to its last days, which usually leaves the procrastinators—or those with hard-to-shop-for recipients on their list. For the shoe collector, here are five sneakers designed in collaboration with music artists that are still available (albeit with expedited shipping).  Get yours on madisonstyle.com and nine.fr.com on 8th December! @badgalriri x @puma #rihanna #puma #PUMAbyRihanna #THECREEPER #ForeverFaster #FENTYxPUMA A photo posted by PUMA by Rihanna (@pumabyrihanna) on RiRi’s creepers are all sold out on Puma’s website, save for this velvet men’s version that’s both festive and on-trend.  The unrivaled combination of Primeknit and BOOST come together for the #KingPushEQT. Launching worldwide December 3rd. A photo posted by adidas Originals (@adidasoriginals) on The third sneaker that from the rapper’s partnership with Adidas sold out on the brand’s site after a Dec. 3rd release date, but Sneakerhead is has it listed for just slightly above the original $200 price tag.   Kanye West’s third installation of Yeezys came out in early November, and most of the remaining inventory is with European retailers, like Browns Fashion -- but shipping is just a transatlantic flight away.  Constructed with a Primeknit upper and full BOOST sole, Hu #NMD’s breakthrough lacing system offers full support and freedom. Availablein scarlet and four other colours September 29th. #adidaspharrellwilliams A photo posted by adidas Originals (@adidasoriginals) on Pharrell’s latest collaboration with Adidas was another almost-immediate sell out, but the colorful Hu sneaks are still roaming around on eBay—and, randomly, at Walmart.   Sure, these aren’t available until next year, but true collectors will still appreciate a gift box with a photo and pre-order status of the long-awaited Air Jordans from Drake and his OVO crew.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Rihanna poses before the Christian Dior 2017 Spring/Summer ready-to-wear collection fashion show on Sept. 30, 2016 in Paris.

The holiday shopping season is winding down to its last days, which usually leaves the procrastinators—or those with hard-to-shop-for recipients on their list. For the shoe collector, here are five sneakers designed in collaboration with music artists that are still available (albeit with expedited shipping).

Puma by Rihanna Men’s Velvet Creeper, $150

Get yours on madisonstyle.com and nine.fr.com on 8th December! @badgalriri x @puma #rihanna #puma #PUMAbyRihanna #THECREEPER #ForeverFaster #FENTYxPUMA A photo posted by PUMA by Rihanna (@pumabyrihanna) on Dec 3, 2016 at 1:14pm PST

RiRi’s creepers are all sold out on Puma’s website, save for this velvet men’s version that’s both festive and on-trend.

Adidas EQT King Push Grayscale, $260

The unrivaled combination of Primeknit and BOOST come together for the #KingPushEQT. Launching worldwide December 3rd. A photo posted by adidas Originals (@adidasoriginals) on Nov 27, 2016 at 12:02am PST

The third sneaker that from the rapper’s partnership with Adidas sold out on the brand’s site after a Dec. 3rd release date, but Sneakerhead is has it listed for just slightly above the original $200 price tag.

Yeezy Season 3 Men’s Military Boots, $620

Kanye West’s third installation of Yeezys came out in early November, and most of the remaining inventory is with European retailers, like Browns Fashion -- but shipping is just a transatlantic flight away.

Adidas x Pharrell Williams Human Race NMD, $549

Constructed with a Primeknit upper and full BOOST sole, Hu #NMD’s breakthrough lacing system offers full support and freedom. Availablein scarlet and four other colours September 29th. #adidaspharrellwilliams A photo posted by adidas Originals (@adidasoriginals) on Sep 27, 2016 at 7:41pm PDT

Pharrell’s latest collaboration with Adidas was another almost-immediate sell out, but the colorful Hu sneaks are still roaming around on eBay—and, randomly, at Walmart.

Nike Air Jordan 12 OVO Black, $800

Sure, these aren’t available until next year, but true collectors will still appreciate a gift box with a photo and pre-order status of the long-awaited Air Jordans from Drake and his OVO crew.