Trey Songz Plans Forthcoming Project 'Tremaine' for 2017
 Trey Songz Plans Forthcoming Project 'Tremaine' for 2017
Trey Songz Plans Forthcoming Project 'Tremaine' for 2017  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  It's been two years since Trey Songz released a proper LP offering, with 2014's . Now, the R&B crooner (real name Tremaine Neverson) is preparing for his comeback with the upcoming project . After gracing the stage for 106 KMEL Hip Hop Holiday House of Soul in Oakland on Sunday (Dec. 18), Songz, donning his signature cornrows as he did in his earlier days, explained how he restarted the creative process for after experiencing some roadblocks along the way. "I've been working on the last couple of years on " he said. "You know, since I dropped the album, and , I actually started on and I restarted it because I felt it was too similar to what I just put out. But I'm looking forward to 2017."  Songz also touched on his vision for the upcoming project and how he's been carefully fleshing out the assets. "I got a very much distinctive vision for how I want it to be taken in. The visuals, the audio, the pictures, everything. It's a plan for it. I think that nowadays music is so like fast food, in content in general," he said. "Everybody takes everything in so fast and then they’re on to the next thing, so I want to figure out how to hold people’s attention.” Take a look at his interview with 106 KMEL's Big Von and Row below. Tonight we in Oakland!!! #freshduraglines A photo posted by treysongz (@treysongz) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

It's been two years since Trey Songz released a proper LP offering, with 2014's Trigga. Now, the R&B crooner (real name Tremaine Neverson) is preparing for his comeback with the upcoming project Tremaine.

After gracing the stage for 106 KMEL Hip Hop Holiday House of Soul in Oakland on Sunday (Dec. 18), Songz, donning his signature cornrows as he did in his earlier I Gotta Make It days, explained how he restarted the creative process for Tremaine after experiencing some roadblocks along the way.

"I've been working on the last couple of years on Tremaine," he said. "You know, since I dropped Trigga the album, and Trigga Reloaded, I actually started on Tremaine, and I restarted it because I felt it was too similar to what I just put out. But I'm looking forward to 2017."

Songz also touched on his vision for the upcoming project and how he's been carefully fleshing out the assets. "I got a very much distinctive vision for how I want it to be taken in. The visuals, the audio, the pictures, everything. It's a plan for it. I think that nowadays music is so like fast food, in content in general," he said. "Everybody takes everything in so fast and then they’re on to the next thing, so I want to figure out how to hold people’s attention.”

Take a look at his interview with 106 KMEL's Big Von and Row below.