Claremont serial killings: Man arrested over women's murders still in custody 24 hours later



Claremont serial killings: Man arrested over women's murders still in custody 24 hours later

Updated

Police have taken a man into custody and are believed to be interviewing him in connection with the historic Claremont serial killer investigation.

Key points: Man arrested is aged in his 50s, neighbours say

Police will not say whether the arrest is linked to the Claremont serial killings

Forensic officers spent all day at the property

The man was arrested at his home in the Perth suburb of Kewdale on Thursday morning.

Neighbours told the ABC officers from the Tactical Response Group went to the house around 7:00am and a man aged in his 50s was taken into custody.

They said they heard yelling coming from the property around the same time.

Later a younger woman, believed to be the man's daughter aged in her 20s, was also taken away by police, neighbours said.

A police media spokesman confirmed officers were at the property "in relation to an ongoing investigation", but declined to comment further.

It is understood the arrested man has not been previously linked to the case.

The deaths of three women over 14 months between 1996 and 1997 were dubbed the Claremont serial killings and sparked Australia's longest-running and most expensive police investigation.

Sarah Spiers, Jane Rimmer and Ciara Glennon disappeared from the upmarket Perth suburb between January 1996 and March 1997.

Ms Rimmer's body was found in August 1996 in bushland at Wellard south of Perth, while Ms Glennon's remains were found in April 1997.

Ms Spiers' body has never been found.

The suspect's neighbour Jim Sheffield said he heard a "commotion" from the man's Kewdale house this morning.

"I was out the back ... doing some gardening, that was about half past 6 and I heard a real loud yell and it sounded like a scream," Mr Sheffield said.

"I didn't think all that much about it. [I] came out about an hour later, there was a lot of police cars across the road and they were dressed in heavy armour.

"Obviously I just thought, 'well something's going on', because you don't normally see those sort of police officers around."

Police, including forensic officers, spent the day at the property and were seen removing a number of large plastic bags.

Topics: murder-and-manslaughter, missing-person, law-crime-and-justice, police, claremont-6010, kewdale-6105

First posted