Trump meets with one-time adversary David Koch at Mar-a-Lago
Trump meets with one-time adversary David Koch at Mar-a-Lago
Executive Vice President, Koch Industries Age:75 Net worth: $39.6 billion                Tweet     Stumble     Email  President-elect Donald Trump may be making peace with the Koch brothers, the influential Republican billionaires who frequently criticized him during the election campaign. Sources familiar with the impromptu meeting told the Washington Post that Mr. Trump had met with billionaire businessman and philanthropist David Koch at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach. The Koch brothers--known for funneling large donations to the Republican party during elections--distanced themselves from the former business mogul before he won the White House. Charles Koch on the millions spent on politics, and his influence on politics Charles and David Koch have become major players in campaign finance, using their combined $86 billion to bankroll a network of conservative grou... Newsmax chief executive Christopher Ruddy allegedly orchestrated the meeting. Ruddy was hosting a dinner with Koch and his wife when the president-elect, along with incoming chief of staff Reince Priebus, dropped by. Koch and Mr. Trump began to talk about the campaign and future plans of his administration, the sources added. Just a few months ago--in July--Trump implied that the Koch brothers donated to Republican candidates in order to control them. I turned down a meeting with Charles and David Koch. Much better for them to meet with the puppets of politics, they will do much better! And in an earlier Tweet from 2015, the president-elect said he “really like[s] the Koch brothers” but doesn’t “want their money or anything else from them.” A day later, fellow billionaire industrialist Charles Koch announced that the could not support Trump or Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, likening the decision to choosing cancer or a heart attack. I really like the Koch Brothers (members of my P.B. Club), but I don't want their money or anything else from them. Cannot influence Trump! The rocky relationship began to change in late November, when Trump began surrounding himself with cabinet members and advisors closely knitted to the Kochs. Vice president elect Mike Pence, White House Counsel Don McGahn and campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, for example, are all connected to the Kochs in various ways.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Julia Boccagno is a news associate for CBS News.

President-elect Donald Trump may be making peace with the Koch brothers, the influential Republican billionaires who frequently criticized him during the election campaign.

Sources familiar with the impromptu meeting told the Washington Post that Mr. Trump had met with billionaire businessman and philanthropist David Koch at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach. The Koch brothers--known for funneling large donations to the Republican party during elections--distanced themselves from the former business mogul before he won the White House.

Newsmax chief executive Christopher Ruddy allegedly orchestrated the meeting. Ruddy was hosting a dinner with Koch and his wife when the president-elect, along with incoming chief of staff Reince Priebus, dropped by. Koch and Mr. Trump began to talk about the campaign and future plans of his administration, the sources added.

Just a few months ago--in July--Trump implied that the Koch brothers donated to Republican candidates in order to control them.

I turned down a meeting with Charles and David Koch. Much better for them to meet with the puppets of politics, they will do much better! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 30, 2016

And in an earlier Tweet from 2015, the president-elect said he “really like[s] the Koch brothers” but doesn’t “want their money or anything else from them.”

A day later, fellow billionaire industrialist Charles Koch announced that the could not support Trump or Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, likening the decision to choosing cancer or a heart attack.

I really like the Koch Brothers (members of my P.B. Club), but I don't want their money or anything else from them. Cannot influence Trump! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 30, 2015

The rocky relationship began to change in late November, when Trump began surrounding himself with cabinet members and advisors closely knitted to the Kochs. Vice president elect Mike Pence, White House Counsel Don McGahn and campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, for example, are all connected to the Kochs in various ways.