23 Actually Hilarious Jokes About Lying
23 Actually Hilarious Jokes About Lying
This fashionable fib. [company meeting]

Manager: $5000 in office supplies have gone missing. We are making some changes.

Me: [in paper clip chainmail, sweating] This dating faux pas. [on a date]

I've got butterflies in my stomach

"that's so cute. You dont have to be nervous"

[flashback to me eating some butterflies] ok This definite truth. Policeman: Name please?
Woman: Cheryl Cole
Policeman: Your FULL name
Woman: (quietly) Chernobyl Coleslaw This political fabrication. Obama: you told him Nigel Farage was British Foreign Secretary didn't you?
Biden: 
Obama: Joe This genius idea. If you live to be 100, you should make up some fake reason why, just to fuck with people... like claim you ate a pinecone every single day. This absolute work of art. This relatable lie. Barber could staple a pic ae yer maw gettin shagged tae yer heed but when he holds up that wee mirror you'd still be like ideal mate cheers This outlandish statement. Barista: Name?
Me: Lotta Sexhaver *wink*
*Time passes*
Barista: Got a latte for Virgin McLiar This John West myth. john west yer a fuckin liar that's well hard This giant overreaction. When someone tells you a secret that you've lowkey been knowing but you have to act surprised This awful pirate deceit. ME: Don't you see, the treasure is our friendship

PIRATE: ...Aye

ME: 😊

P: I cherish ya me matey but honestly ya misled me a tad didn't ya This actual exposé. These imaginary pups. FAKE BREEDS I'VE TOLD PEOPLE MY DOG IS AT THE DOG PARK: Venetian Dabney, Brown Feta, Waxbeard, Oxnard Pike, Blue Hustler, High Presbyterian This delayed truth. A friend and I just decided that in 10 years if we aren't married we will tell each other what's honestly wrong about ourselves. This brutal self burn. Ladies call me Subway because I've got low quality meat and lie about being 6 inches This vital lie to yourself. Going for a walk because I want to stay healthy. Taking along a box of M&M's because let's be honest here. This timely truth. I don't understand why New Years Eve is such a big deal.

I get drunk and tell myself lies all the time. Who needs a special day for that? This miracle. Park Ranger: *Looking at morbidly obese ducks* Was this you?

Jesus: *trying to hide the rapidly multiplying bread loaves* No sir This poor grasp on literature. [sees girl reading The Catcher in the Rye]
"Ah I love that book. The way he just [clenches fist] catches all that frickin rye." This honest compliment. -I can't stand liars and fakes 
-You are so pretty
-See? Why can't everyone be honest like you This universal denial. People be surprised when I tell em I have a 4.0 GPA while working & maintaining an active social life, but anything is possible when you lie   21 Things You'll Get If You're A Nice But Bitchy Person...    "The OA" Is Now Officially Returning For...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.