Report: 'Mystery Plane' Flying Over NYC Was Trump Evacuation Exercise

Report: 'Mystery Plane' Flying Over NYC Was Trump Evacuation Exercise // // // // New Yorkers were startled by a military plane and two massive helicopters that circle midtown Manhattan for more than half an hour last week. Now, it appears we have an explanation for the aircrafts doing loops over Manhattan on December 13 despite a no-fly zone in the area. According to DNAinfo New York , the plane and helicopters were conducting an "emergency relocation" planning mission in case they needed to extract President-elect Donald Trump during an emergency or attack. Sources told DNAinfo that the C-130 search-and-rescue plane and the HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopters were identifying locations where a chopper could touch down near the president-elect's home inside Trump Tower. “It was the military doing their homework,” one source said. “They were making plans how to remove him, mapping plans and strategizing,” another source said. As the low-flying plane circled the city last week, worried New Yorkers and tourists took to social media to express their concern about another 9/11.

WATCH: Kellyanne Conway Reacts to New Senior Role in Trump White House

'Not a Normal Presidency': Reich Calls For 'Peaceful Resistance' to Trump

Trump: Berlin Truck Attack 'An Attack on Humanity'

New Yorkers were startled by a military plane and two massive helicopters that circle midtown Manhattan for more than half an hour last week.

Now, it appears we have an explanation for the aircrafts doing loops over Manhattan on December 13 despite a no-fly zone in the area.

According to DNAinfo New York, the plane and helicopters were conducting an "emergency relocation" planning mission in case they needed to extract President-elect Donald Trump during an emergency or attack.

Sources told DNAinfo that the C-130 search-and-rescue plane and the HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopters were identifying locations where a chopper could touch down near the president-elect's home inside Trump Tower.

“It was the military doing their homework,” one source said.

“They were making plans how to remove him, mapping plans and strategizing,” another source said.

As the low-flying plane circled the city last week, worried New Yorkers and tourists took to social media to express their concern about another 9/11.

Celebs Boycott Inauguration? Lahren Says 'Tolerance Is One-Sided' on the Left

O'Reilly: The 'Hidden Reason' the Left Wants to Abolish Electoral College

WATCH: Ailing Marine Vet Gives Trump, Gen. Mattis One Final Salute