Vladimir Putin demands upgrade to nuclear arsenal to defeat any defensive shield
Putin demands an upgrade to his nuclear arsenal


Vladimir Putin has demanded that Russia's nuclear arsenal is able penetrate every missile defence system, while military chiefs tested new drone tanks and reports emerge of an anti-satellite weapon being developed.

The Russian President said the country must address any changes to the balance of power in the world, and stated it has shown its military capabilities in Syria.

Putin told military chiefs in Moscow: 'We are now stronger than any potential aggressor.'

He made the comment on a day when it was confirmed that he had been nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize for the second time, having missed out on the award in 2014.

Footage has emerged of two unmanned tanks, one of which is designed as a kamikaze device, being tested outside Moscow. And reports in the US have sparked alarm over claims Putin's forces are developing an anti-satellite weapon.

Scroll down for video

Putin told military chiefs in Moscow: 'We are now stronger than any potential aggressor'

Footage of the two unmanned tanks has been released, showing the weapons being tested outside Moscow yesterday

He was put forward by the head of a French think-tank which focuses on geopolitics and government policies.

Fabien Baussart, president of the French Centre for Political and International Relations (CFPA), said he had officially nominated the Russian President as he believes he is the only world leader truly trying to bring down the likes of ISIS.

Putin was previously nominated by Russian advocacy group the International Academy of Spiritual Unity and Cooperation of Peoples of the World after he brokered a deal forcing the Syrian government to surrender chemical weapons without the use of force.

Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu (pictured with Putin last year) said the military has 'tested 162 types of modern armaments' during the military campaign in Syria

Both tanks are equipped with huge machine guns, and footage of them being tested has been released in Russia

That year, the award was shared between Indian children's rights advocate Kailash Satyarthi and Pakistani education campaigner Malala Yousafzai.

Addressing defence ministry chiefs in Moscow today, Putin said: ' We need to strengthen the military potential of strategic nuclear forces, especially with missile complexes that can reliably penetrate any existing and prospective missile defence systems.

'We must carefully monitor any changes in the balance of power and in the political-military situation in the world, especially along Russian borders, and quickly adapt plans for neutralising threats to our country.'

Putin told his audience that Russia’s military had successfully shown its capabilities in Syria, stating: 'The Syrian army received considerable support, thanks to which it carried out several successful operations against militants.'

Russia has flown an air campaign in Syria since September 2015 in support of President Bashar al-Assad, and special operations officers are operating on the ground.

Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said the military has 'tested 162 types of modern armaments' during the military campaign in Syria, including its Sukhoi warplanes and MiG and Kamov helicopters.

Putin has been nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize for the second time for 'targeting terrorists head on'

'They have shown to be highly effective', he said.

He said that 35,000 rebel fighters had been killed by Russian air strikes, and a chain of revolutions across the Middle East had been halted.

UN AGREES TO INVESTIGATE WAR CRIMES COMMITTED IN SYRIA The UN General Assembly today agreed to set up a panel to gather evidence on war crimes in Syria, taking a first step toward prosecuting those responsible for atrocities in the nearly six-year war. A resolution on establishing the investigative mechanism was adopted in the 193-nation assembly by a vote of 105 to 15, with 52 abstentions. The panel will work closely with the UN Commission of Inquiry, which has submitted several reports detailing atrocities committed during the war that has killed more than 310,000 people. Civil society groups have also been compiling documents, lists of witnesses and video footage that could one day be used in a court of law. The measure prepared by Liechtenstein was co-sponsored by 58 countries including the United States, France, Britain, Italy and Germany as well as regional powers Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Russia, Syria’s main ally, and China in 2014 blocked a request by the council that the International Criminal Court begin investigations of war crimes in Syria.

Shoigu said Russian aircraft had flown 18,800 sorties in Syria since the start of the Kremlin’s operation there last year, destroying 775 training camps, 405 sites where weapons were being made and killing 35,000 fighters.

'The chain of "colour revolutions" spreading across the Middle East and Africa has been broken,' Shoigu said.

Russia's involvement in the Syria conflict is widely seen as having saved President Bashar al-Assad’s forces from defeat and as being crucial to their retaking full control of Aleppo.

Shoigu also said Russia’s nuclear missile forces would next year be swelled by three extra units armed with modern weaponry and that the air force would receive five modernised strategic bombers.

But Putin warned that while Russia’s military power had grown substantially, 'we had better not lose focus'.

It comes as Putin was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize for 'targeting terrorists head on'.

The head of the French Centre for Political and International Relations (CFPA), Fabien Baussart, said he had officially nominated the Russian President as he believes he is the only world leader truly trying to bring down the likes of ISIS.

He said: 'As the CFPA head, I officially proposed the candidacy by sending a letter to the Norwegian Nobel Committee saying that, in my opinion, President Vladimir Putin could get the Nobel Peace Prize as a reward for his peacemaking efforts.'

He cited outgoing US President Barack Obama bagging the prize for his troop's work in Iraq and added that, in his opinion, recent airstrikes on the militant positions in Syria should not prevent Putin from being rewarded.

He said he believes the controversial leader is 'promoting various peace initiatives' in his work to combat terror attacks by fighting the groups head on.