11-Year-Old Girl Hailed as Hero After Calling 911 During Home Invasion
11-Year-Old Girl Hailed as Hero After Calling 911 During Home Invasion


In London's Green Park on Monday, 41 guns were fired in honor of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, who ascended to the throne in 1962.

More than 100 people reported seeing a fireball in the early hours Monday.

The Super Bowl MVP is aware that his jersey is "a nice piece of memorabilia."

ABC News' Lara Spencer reports the buzziest stories of the day in "GMA" Pop News.

Syrian family reunited one week after being blocked by President Trump's travel ban. The family says six relatives with valid visas were turned away and sent back to Syria.

Carnival in Rio de Janeiro is an annual festival held before Lent. It is the biggest Carnival in the world.

Chris Garguilo of Schenectady, New York, asked his longtime girlfriend to marry him in a previously recorded television commercial that aired during Super Bowl LI.

The president's first address to U.S. troops was made at MacDill Air Force Base.

Trump to Troops: 'We're Going to Defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism'

Ashley Bermudez watched an unknown vehicle pull up to her Meadow Woods, Florida, house and locked herself into a closet as three intruders broke into the house.

Trump to Troops: 'We're Going to Defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism'

Trump to Troops: 'We're Going to Defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism'

An 11-year-old girl in Florida called 911 from her bedroom closet when three suspects burglarized her family's home, taking an estimated $13,000 worth of items, including Christmas presents, according to police.

Ashley Bermudez, of Meadow Woods, Florida, retreated to a closet in her upstairs bedroom after watching an unknown vehicle pull into the driveway of her home.

"I was trying to be very quiet while in the closet so that they can't hear me," Ashley told ABC News.

Ashley can be heard on the 911 call pleading with the dispatcher to send help. The girl, on winter break from school, was home alone while her mom ran an errand.

"Hello, please, I need help. I need help. I need help," Ashley told the dispatcher. "They're breaking into my house, please come really quick."

The suspects later entered the bedroom where Ashley was hiding and knocked down a door, according to police.

"Oh no, please, please, I won't say anything, I promise you," Ashley can be heard saying on the 911 call.

Authorities say the suspects fled the home after seeing Ashley. They later crashed their getaway car into a flatbed truck a few miles from Ashley's home and were apprehended, according to police.

The Orange County Sheriff's Department said in a Facebook post Wednesday they were able to arrest the suspects -- identified by police as an 18-year-old male and two juveniles, ages 16 and 14 -- due to Ashley's "incredibly accurate descriptions."

"She followed all the instructions," the 911 dispatcher, Michele Fernandez, told ABC News. "She did a great job. Being 11 years old, she did a better job than any adult out there."

Fernandez met Ashley for the first time Wednesday night. The two gave each other a hug.

"She was kind of a lifesaver for me," Ashley said of Fernandez. "I want to thank her because what she did is really, really, really important to me."

Orange County Sheriff's Department officials said they plan to honor Ashley for her bravery.