Your guide to drinking responsibly during the silly season

Your guide to drinking responsibly during the silly season Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   ABC Health & Wellbeing By Olivia Willis and Cassandra Steeth Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Getty Images: Lode Kuylenstierna The silly season is upon us, and so begins the barrage of food, alcohol, afternoon naps and family squabbles. For most of us, it's a time to relax and unwind — and sometimes an opportunity to indulge in booze. "It's common knowledge that many people up their alcohol intake over the summer period," psychologist and public health expert Dr Bosco Rowland said. It is, after all, the season to be jolly. But according to Dr Rowland, it's also a timely reminder of the dangers of excessive drinking, and why it's important to drink responsibly. How much is safe to drink? While a lot of attention is paid to the ill-effects of heavy alcohol consumption, moderate alcohol consumption can also affect your health. The National Health and Medical Research Council's alcohol guidelines recommend reducing the risk of alcohol-related harm by drinking at a level considered "low risk". "If a person drinks less than that, the probability he or she will suffer from long-term alcohol related disease, such as cancer, is approximately one in 100." Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The red figures show the number of standard drinks in different serving sizes of some popular alcoholic drinks. Australian Government For both men and women, drinking a maximum of four standard drinks on a single occasion reduces the risk of alcohol-related injury to one in 100. "Risk of injury includes physical injury or road accidents, due to impaired cognitive performance and diminished reaction times," Dr Rowland said. What is a standard drink? A standard drink is one that contains 10 grams of alcohol. The size will vary, depending on what you're drinking. But chances are it's smaller than you think. Signs you're drinking too much Recent data from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare indicates males are 20 per cent more likely than females to drink "at risky levels" in a single drinking occasion. People aged 18-24 are also most likely to exceed the single occasion risk guidelines for alcohol consumption. Common signs you're drinking too much include: Alcohol dehydrates you. Alcohol is a diuretic, meaning that it increases the flow of urine. Those aged under 65 shouldn't need to get up in the night to go to the bathroom. Self-medicating with alcohol is especially problematic for people at risk of depression or anxiety. Alcohol may help to initially bring on sleep — but its sedative effects wear off after just a few hours. It increases your likelihood of waking up, and decreases the quality of your sleep. Alcohol (and problems with your liver) can irritate your digestive system — causing stomach pain, vomiting and diarrhoea. This is a sign your body has learnt to work harder to breakdown alcohol quicker. While it may blind you from the short-term effects, the long-term consequences like liver disease will only worsen. This is the easiest way to detect jaundice — a key sign of an upset liver. A hangover is your body's way of telling you that you have drunk too much. Quiz: Alcohol and what it does to your body Quiz: Alcohol and what it does to your body   Do you really know what alcohol is doing to your body? Hospital presentation for injury peaks in December Research by Deakin University found emergency department presentation for injury increased during the festive season during hours of high alcohol consumption. Research fellow Dr Ashlee Curtis said the presentation rate for injury increased in December compared with earlier months in both Victoria and the ACT. "In Canberra, during high alcohol hours between 2011 and 2014, the number of assaults were higher in December than in July," said Dr Curtis. How can I reduce my intake? According to Dr Rowland, there are a number of strategies you can put in place during the festive season to cut down your rate of alcohol consumption: Ensure you have at least one to two alcohol-free days Rehearse a mental strategy to moderate alcohol consumption  Dilute your drinks with something non-alcoholic; why not make a shandy?  Have your Christmas party outside to encourage physical activity ABC Health and Wellbeing Newsletter Teaser Want more ABC Health & Wellbeing? Subscribe for weekly our update of Health and Wellbeing news, features and opinion from around the ABC. Or you can like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter . Related articles         Topics  Health   Alcohol Education   Alcohol   Australia  More top stories   How to do a fitness audit (and why it's a good idea)     Review of herbal supplements finds Chinese medicine laced with toad venom     Solitude is glory, but loneliness is pain. It's time to reach out     Is it ever OK to ask if someone's pregnant?     Growing up with your sibling's disease   Top Stories                             Connect with ABC News            Got a news tip? If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . News in your inbox

The average Australian adult drinks the equivalent of 10 litres or so of pure alcohol each year

The silly season is upon us, and so begins the barrage of food, alcohol, afternoon naps and family squabbles.

For most of us, it's a time to relax and unwind — and sometimes an opportunity to indulge in booze.

"It's common knowledge that many people up their alcohol intake over the summer period," psychologist and public health expert Dr Bosco Rowland said.

It is, after all, the season to be jolly.

But according to Dr Rowland, it's also a timely reminder of the dangers of excessive drinking, and why it's important to drink responsibly.

How much is safe to drink?

While a lot of attention is paid to the ill-effects of heavy alcohol consumption, moderate alcohol consumption can also affect your health.

The National Health and Medical Research Council's alcohol guidelines recommend reducing the risk of alcohol-related harm by drinking at a level considered "low risk".

"Healthy men and women are advised not to drink more than two standard drinks on any one day," Dr Rowland said.

"If a person drinks less than that, the probability he or she will suffer from long-term alcohol related disease, such as cancer, is approximately one in 100."

Share The red figures show the number of standard drinks in different serving sizes of some popular alcoholic drinks.

For both men and women, drinking a maximum of four standard drinks on a single occasion reduces the risk of alcohol-related injury to one in 100.

"Risk of injury includes physical injury or road accidents, due to impaired cognitive performance and diminished reaction times," Dr Rowland said.

What is a standard drink?

A standard drink is one that contains 10 grams of alcohol. The size will vary, depending on what you're drinking.

But chances are it's smaller than you think.

Signs you're drinking too much

Recent data from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare indicates males are 20 per cent more likely than females to drink "at risky levels" in a single drinking occasion.

People aged 18-24 are also most likely to exceed the single occasion risk guidelines for alcohol consumption.

Common signs you're drinking too much include:

Waking up with dry eyes

Alcohol dehydrates you.

Alcohol dehydrates you. Needing to get up for the toilet multiple times in the night

Alcohol is a diuretic, meaning that it increases the flow of urine. Those aged under 65 shouldn't need to get up in the night to go to the bathroom.

Alcohol is a diuretic, meaning that it increases the flow of urine. Those aged under 65 shouldn't need to get up in the night to go to the bathroom. Craving an afternoon drink

Self-medicating with alcohol is especially problematic for people at risk of depression or anxiety.

Self-medicating with alcohol is especially problematic for people at risk of depression or anxiety. Broken sleep, leaving you grumpy and forgetful

Alcohol may help to initially bring on sleep — but its sedative effects wear off after just a few hours. It increases your likelihood of waking up, and decreases the quality of your sleep.

Alcohol may help to initially bring on sleep — but its sedative effects wear off after just a few hours. It increases your likelihood of waking up, and decreases the quality of your sleep. An upset stomach

Alcohol (and problems with your liver) can irritate your digestive system — causing stomach pain, vomiting and diarrhoea.

Alcohol (and problems with your liver) can irritate your digestive system — causing stomach pain, vomiting and diarrhoea. Needing to drink more alcohol to feel its effects

This is a sign your body has learnt to work harder to breakdown alcohol quicker. While it may blind you from the short-term effects, the long-term consequences like liver disease will only worsen.

This is a sign your body has learnt to work harder to breakdown alcohol quicker. While it may blind you from the short-term effects, the long-term consequences like liver disease will only worsen. Yellowing of the whites of your eyes

This is the easiest way to detect jaundice — a key sign of an upset liver.

This is the easiest way to detect jaundice — a key sign of an upset liver. Having a hangover

A hangover is your body's way of telling you that you have drunk too much.

Hospital presentation for injury peaks in December

Research by Deakin University found emergency department presentation for injury increased during the festive season during hours of high alcohol consumption.

Research fellow Dr Ashlee Curtis said the presentation rate for injury increased in December compared with earlier months in both Victoria and the ACT.

"In Canberra, during high alcohol hours between 2011 and 2014, the number of assaults were higher in December than in July," said Dr Curtis.

How can I reduce my intake?

According to Dr Rowland, there are a number of strategies you can put in place during the festive season to cut down your rate of alcohol consumption: