In A Giving Mood? Don't Write Checks To Charities Without A Strategy
In A Giving Mood? Don't Write Checks To Charities Without A Strategy
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Vanessa McGrady       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Tax breaks for charitable giving are sometimes the gentle nudge our generosity needs. : In addition to keeping more of our own money, we help people who need it most, we sometimes lessen the burden on public coffers, and we can even improve our own health when we give. Shutterstock But so that your donated dollars do the most good. Kay McFarlin, president at TIAA Charitable, says that because we’re all different, there’s no one size-fits all approach when it comes to giving, and it helps to consult with a financial professional if you’re at all confused. “It’s also important for individuals to hone in on the charities and causes they want to focus on. There are millions of great charities in the United States, which can be a bit overwhelming,” she said. She also advised looking into Donor Advised Funds (DAFs), sort of like charitable savings accounts, which allow you to write one check that will be distributed to many organizations upon your recommendation while your un-donated money grows. But do your homework before signing up, and make sure the institution you choose is doing what they promise. Maria “The Money Scientist” James , a personal finance expert, agrees that DAFs are a good choice if you’re making sizable donations of several thousand dollars or more. “It depends on the institution where the person opens the fund, but it will be thousands of dollars. For example Fidelity Charitable requires an initial deposit of $5,000 to start a DAF. However, The T. Rowe Price Program for Charitable Giving requires a minimum initial deposit of $10,000 in order to set up a DAF,” she said. “The DAF will allow you to get the tax breaks immediately as you set aside the planned charitable donation and gives you time to decide on a non-profit,” James said. She added that there’s another consideration, though, and that’s to understand how urgently the nonprofit needs your donation. “Even if they are partnered with a DAF, they may not see the money for a while,” she said. “There isn't a strict time requirement on donating the money so an owner of a DAF could wait a couple years before giving out any donations. Therefore, a non-profit could actually end up with less money as the DAF owners wait to actually distribute the money.” Heroes of Philanthropy 2016 McFarlin also said to remember the benefits from giving away things other than money. “Rather than throwing away furniture, clothes and equipment you aren’t using, look into donate them to charity since non-cash gifts might also qualify for tax deductions. And if your non-cash gifts include appreciated securities and complex assets, giving through a DAF can simplify the process as most large DAFs are set up to accept these types of contributions,” she said. Sometimes we find a family or individual that can use our help. By all means—do what you can to make an impact, but understand that giving directly to someone without the umbrella of a qualifying non-profit organization will not help your tax situation. “While giving to individuals is certainly generous and well-intended, you are only eligible for tax deductions if you give to qualified recipients. So, from a tax benefit perspective, giving to a charitable organization is a better option,” McFarlin said. “If you aren’t sure if the organization you have in mind is eligible to receive tax-deductible charitable contributions, ask the charity directly or the IRS can inform you of their tax status. Look for IRS recognized charities eligible to receive tax-exempt contributions.” Want to give but don’t know where? Charity Navigator has a tool to help individuals narrow down the search. And if you’re interested in giving (or getting) a charitable donation as a gift in someone’s name, try Small Token , where you can create and donate to charitable gift registries for no fee. You can also give a lump sum to an organization such as United Way , which distributes grants to a variety of programs.       Trending on {{channel_name}}

Tax breaks for charitable giving are sometimes the gentle nudge our generosity needs. When we make donations to worthy causes before the end of the year, it’s an all-around win : In addition to keeping more of our own money, we help people who need it most, we sometimes lessen the burden on public coffers, and we can even improve our own health when we give.

But before you become the go-to person with a wallet as wide open as your heart, consider having a strategy so that your donated dollars do the most good. Kay McFarlin, president at TIAA Charitable, says that because we’re all different, there’s no one size-fits all approach when it comes to giving, and it helps to consult with a financial professional if you’re at all confused. “It’s also important for individuals to hone in on the charities and causes they want to focus on. There are millions of great charities in the United States, which can be a bit overwhelming,” she said.

She also advised looking into Donor Advised Funds (DAFs), sort of like charitable savings accounts, which allow you to write one check that will be distributed to many organizations upon your recommendation while your un-donated money grows. But do your homework before signing up, and make sure the institution you choose is doing what they promise.

Maria “The Money Scientist” James, a personal finance expert, agrees that DAFs are a good choice if you’re making sizable donations of several thousand dollars or more. “It depends on the institution where the person opens the fund, but it will be thousands of dollars. For example Fidelity Charitable requires an initial deposit of $5,000 to start a DAF. However, The T. Rowe Price Program for Charitable Giving requires a minimum initial deposit of $10,000 in order to set up a DAF,” she said.

“The DAF will allow you to get the tax breaks immediately as you set aside the planned charitable donation and gives you time to decide on a non-profit,” James said. She added that there’s another consideration, though, and that’s to understand how urgently the nonprofit needs your donation. “Even if they are partnered with a DAF, they may not see the money for a while,” she said. “There isn't a strict time requirement on donating the money so an owner of a DAF could wait a couple years before giving out any donations. Therefore, a non-profit could actually end up with less money as the DAF owners wait to actually distribute the money.”

McFarlin also said to remember the benefits from giving away things other than money. “Rather than throwing away furniture, clothes and equipment you aren’t using, look into donate them to charity since non-cash gifts might also qualify for tax deductions. And if your non-cash gifts include appreciated securities and complex assets, giving through a DAF can simplify the process as most large DAFs are set up to accept these types of contributions,” she said.

Sometimes we find a family or individual that can use our help. By all means—do what you can to make an impact, but understand that giving directly to someone without the umbrella of a qualifying non-profit organization will not help your tax situation. “While giving to individuals is certainly generous and well-intended, you are only eligible for tax deductions if you give to qualified recipients. So, from a tax benefit perspective, giving to a charitable organization is a better option,” McFarlin said. “If you aren’t sure if the organization you have in mind is eligible to receive tax-deductible charitable contributions, ask the charity directly or the IRS can inform you of their tax status. Look for IRS recognized charities eligible to receive tax-exempt contributions.”

Want to give but don’t know where? Charity Navigator has a tool to help individuals narrow down the search. And if you’re interested in giving (or getting) a charitable donation as a gift in someone’s name, try Small Token, where you can create and donate to charitable gift registries for no fee. You can also give a lump sum to an organization such as United Way, which distributes grants to a variety of programs.

Vanessa McGrady would be thrilled if you'd visit her new blog, www.greenmeansgotravel.com. You can find her on Twitter (@VanessaMcGrady) and learn more about her work at www.vanessamcgrady.com.