Is resting your head on a BOX the best way to sleep on a plane? Rocket scientist spends two years inventing bizarre travel accessory
The CARDBOARD BOX that one engineer says will help you sleep on planes


Do you ever have trouble sleeping on planes, struggling to find a comfy spot to rest your head?

Well, in a bid to solve travel sleeping woes, a self-proclaimed rocket scientist from Puerto Rico has invented a bizarre accessory that allows people to snooze 'longer without back or neck strain'.

The PowerSiesta is a box-like gimmick made from corrugated cardboard that folds out to create a resting post.

Sleep solution? In a bid to solve travel sleeping woes, a self-proclaimed rocket scientist from Puerto Rico has invented a bizarre accessory that allows people to snooze longer

Users are instructed to 'pop it open, wrap your arms around it, rest your head on top, and relax'.

Horacio Trucco, who masterminded the PowerSiesta, apparently spent two years getting the idea off the ground.

One promotional video shows 'real people' using the magazine-sized product.

Giving it a go: Users of the PowerSiesta are instructed to 'pop it open, wrap your arms around it, rest your head on top, and relax'

Long process: Horacio Trucco, who masterminded the PowerSiesta, apparently spent two years getting the idea off the ground

Tried and tested: One promotional video shows 'real people' using the product

Getting the thumbs up: A woman called Cristina tells viewers: 'It was super easy to carry and very lightweight'

A woman called Cristina tells viewers: 'It was super easy to carry and very lightweight.

'I opened it up and put my pashmina on it and went right to sleep... no problem.'

Meanwhile Justin adds: 'First I was a bit skeptical – I didn’t really know how this tool could work, but it turned out to be amazing… it’s a breeze to put together.'

Good to go: The PowerSiesta is around the size of a magazine so users can pop it in carry on luggage

For added comfort, users are advised to pop a 'pillow, folded jacket or scarf on top'.

A blurb advertsing the sleep aid concludes: 'The sturdy, ergonomically-designed PowerSiesta ensures you get the high quality sleep you need, so you can relax completely and arrive at your destination looking fresh as a daisy, and feeling like a million bucks.'

Apparently Mr Trucco, who created the PowerSiesta, is an aeronautical engineer with more than 50 years of experience.

Over the years he has amassed ten patents for his cunning inventions.

He is currently seeking investment for the PowerSiesta through Kickstarter. If he raises enough money he will start production early next year, with prices starting at £16.22 ($20) plus shipping.

A man called Justin said after using the PowerSiesta: 'First I was a bit skeptical – I didn’t really know how this tool could work, but it turned out to be amazing… it’s a breeze to put together'

A woman called Cristina tells viewers: 'It was super easy to carry and very lightweight'