Big Sean Drops His New Single "Moves" And Announces 'I Decided' Album
Big Sean Drops His New Single "Moves" And Announces 'I Decided' Album
new music tonite. My 4th album "I Decided." drops 2.3.17. Preorder + new music at midnite EST. Can't wait to share this story with yall. pic.twitter.com/zLdFdJ02eK Sean's been on a roll recently. He dropped the singles "Bounce Back" and "No More Interviews" back in late October, and recently followed those up with the final version of his previously-leaked song "Living Single" with Chance the Rapper and Jeremih. "No More Interviews" managed to set the internet ablaze with speculation as Sean addressed buzz-worthy topics like his status with former G.O.O.D. Music member Kid Cudi as well as his feelings about his celebrity ex-girlfriends Ariana Grande and Naya Rivera. He also announced that another album from his Jhené Aiko collaborative project Twenty88 would be on its way sometime in 2017. Sean even hopped on Yo Gotti's recent single "Castro" alongside Kanye West, 2 Chainz, and Quavo. Sean put out his third album in February of 2015, and followed that up with the project this April. With "Bounce Back" hitting the Top 40 of the Billboard Hot 100 and a new album on the way, Sean is clearly gearing up for a big 2017. You can purchase Big Sean's new single "Moves" on iTunes now , and pre-order his upcoming album .

Big Sean took to Twitter Thursday to announce the impending release of new music. Although nobody was quite sure what to expect, it ended up being a new single "Moves." He also announced that his fourth album I Decided will be dropping on February 3.

new music tonite. — Sean Don (@BigSean) December 22, 2016

My 4th album "I Decided." drops 2.3.17.

Preorder + new music at midnite EST.

Can't wait to share this story with yall. pic.twitter.com/zLdFdJ02eK — Sean Don (@BigSean) December 23, 2016

Sean's been on a roll recently. He dropped the singles "Bounce Back" and "No More Interviews" back in late October, and recently followed those up with the final version of his previously-leaked song "Living Single" with Chance the Rapper and Jeremih. "No More Interviews" managed to set the internet ablaze with speculation as Sean addressed buzz-worthy topics like his status with former G.O.O.D. Music member Kid Cudi as well as his feelings about his celebrity ex-girlfriends Ariana Grande and Naya Rivera.

He also announced that another album from his Jhené Aiko collaborative project Twenty88 would be on its way sometime in 2017. Sean even hopped on Yo Gotti's recent single "Castro" alongside Kanye West, 2 Chainz, and Quavo.

Sean put out his third album Dark Sky Paradise in February of 2015, and followed that up with the Twenty88 project this April. With "Bounce Back" hitting the Top 40 of the Billboard Hot 100 and a new album on the way, Sean is clearly gearing up for a big 2017.

You can purchase Big Sean's new single "Moves" on iTunes now, and pre-order his upcoming album I Decided.