Chocolate Chip Cookies Recipe

Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Flat-and-Chewy Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Thick-and-Gooey Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Chocolate Chip Pastry Cream By Joan Nathan 1 hour Quintessential Chocolate Chip Cookies By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes easy Chocolate Chip Cookies By Jeff Gordinier Trending Thai-Peanut Chicken Wings By Mark Bittman 45 minutes Trending Caramelized Onion Dip With Frizzled Leeks By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Soba Salad By Mark Bittman 15 minutes Trending Mocha Chocolate Chip Cake By Alex Witchel 1 hour Trending Pressure Cooker Chicken Stock By Michael Ruhlman 2 hours Trending Fade to Black By Robert Simonson Francesco Tonelli for The New York Times You may have memorized the foolproof gem on the back of the Toll House bag, given to the world by Ruth Graves Wakefield in the 1930s. But this may become your new favorite chocolate chip cookie recipe. It’s a little more complicated, and you’ll have to plan ahead: after assembling the dough, you must chill it for at least 24 hours before baking it, and preferably up to 36. This allows the dry ingredients time to soak up the wet ones, which results in a firmer dough. It leads to a marvelously chewy, chocolate-rich cookie. Don’t skimp on good chocolate, and the sea salt is not an option -- it’s the beacon at the top of this gorgeous treat. (You can certainly put this recipe together by hand, but a stand mixer makes it easy work. If you're in the market for one, our colleagues at The Sweethome have tested quite a few, and they've put together an excellent guide to the best .)   Perfection? Hint: It’s Warm And Has A Secret .     Chocolate Chip , Cookies , Sea Salt  Ingredients                                       Nutritional analysis per serving (12 servings)    Preparation Sift flours, baking soda, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Set aside. Using a mixer fitted with paddle attachment, cream butter and sugars together until very light, about 5 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla. Reduce speed to low, add dry ingredients and mix until just combined, 5 to 10 seconds. Drop chocolate pieces in and incorporate them without breaking them. Press plastic wrap against dough and refrigerate for 24 to 36 hours. Dough may be used in batches, and can be refrigerated for up to 72 hours. When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Set aside. Scoop 6 3 1/2-ounce mounds of dough (the size of generous golf balls) onto baking sheet, making sure to turn horizontally any chocolate pieces that are poking up; it will make for a more attractive cookie. Sprinkle lightly with sea salt and bake until golden brown but still soft, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to a wire rack for 10 minutes, then slip cookies onto another rack to cool a bit more. Repeat with remaining dough, or reserve dough, refrigerated, for baking remaining batches the next day. Eat warm, with a big napkin. Tip   Adapted From Jacques Torres Banana Pudding By Sam Sifton 1 hour Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups By Samantha Seneviratne 50 minutes, plus chilling Basic Sugar Cookies By Alison Roman Key Lime Pie By Jennifer Steinhauer Linguine With Lemon Sauce By Pierre Franey About 20 minutes Classic Kung Pao Chicken By Alex Witchel 25 minutes Cacio e Pepe By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Pressure Cooker Spicy Pork Shoulder By Melissa Clark 3 hours Cooking Guide How to Make Sugar Cookies By Alison Roman Cooking Guide How to Make Soup By Samin Nosrat Cooking Guide How to Cook Potatoes By Julia Moskin Cooking Guide How to Make Cranberry Sauce By Melissa Clark

Let's Get Started

Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below.

An error has occurred. Please try again.