Pastor: Christians Are Being 'Marginalized & Attacked' in the U.S. & Around the World

Pastor: Christians Are Being 'Marginalized & Attacked' in the U.S. & Around the World // // // Just days before Christmas, ISIS is urging its followers to attack U.S. churches and has published the names and addresses of thousands of prospective targets. On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Pastor Robert Jeffress said that Christians should celebrate Christmas and not surrender to fear. "If Christians stay home this weekend because of a threat from ISIS, well, ISIS wins," Jeffress said. He argued that this threat against churches and the attack on a Christmas market in Berlin underscore the need to deal "decisively" with ISIS. "The good news is, we have a new commander-in-chief coming, President Donald Trump, who is resolved the rid the world of ISIS," Jeffress said. "That's going to result in the alleviation of suffering of millions of Christians around the world and making our own nation more secure." He added that it's also important for Christians to stand up and fight for their faith. "It's time for what a friend of mine calls 'muscular Christianity,'" Jeffress said. "We must stand up. We must protest the onslaught against Christians." He said that Trump understands that Christians are being "marginalized and attacked" in the U.S. and around the world. "So I think it's going to be a new day for Christians in America." Watch more above, and share your thoughts in the comments.

WATCH: Kellyanne Conway Reacts to New Senior Role in Trump White House

'Not a Normal Presidency': Reich Calls For 'Peaceful Resistance' to Trump

Trump: Berlin Truck Attack 'An Attack on Humanity'

Just days before Christmas, ISIS is urging its followers to attack U.S. churches and has published the names and addresses of thousands of prospective targets.

On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Pastor Robert Jeffress said that Christians should celebrate Christmas and not surrender to fear.

"If Christians stay home this weekend because of a threat from ISIS, well, ISIS wins," Jeffress said.

He argued that this threat against churches and the attack on a Christmas market in Berlin underscore the need to deal "decisively" with ISIS.

"The good news is, we have a new commander-in-chief coming, President Donald Trump, who is resolved the rid the world of ISIS," Jeffress said. "That's going to result in the alleviation of suffering of millions of Christians around the world and making our own nation more secure."

He added that it's also important for Christians to stand up and fight for their faith.

"It's time for what a friend of mine calls 'muscular Christianity,'" Jeffress said. "We must stand up. We must protest the onslaught against Christians."

He said that Trump understands that Christians are being "marginalized and attacked" in the U.S. and around the world.

"So I think it's going to be a new day for Christians in America."

Watch more above, and share your thoughts in the comments.

Celebs Boycott Inauguration? Lahren Says 'Tolerance Is One-Sided' on the Left

O'Reilly: The 'Hidden Reason' the Left Wants to Abolish Electoral College

WATCH: Ailing Marine Vet Gives Trump, Gen. Mattis One Final Salute