Ex-soldier says he feels betrayed by IRA murder probe
Ex-soldier says he feels betrayed by IRA murder probe 
former paratrooper who is facing prosecution over the alleged murder of an IRA commander has said he feels betrayed by the British Government. The unnamed widowed soldier, 67, known as Soldier A, was with a group of soldiers when Joe McCann, a senior leader in the Official IRA at the time, was shot and killed in 1972 . A criminal investigation into his death was reopened in 2012. The ex-soldier said he felt he was now being treated "like a terrorist". He said the Government was "doing nothing" about the "witch-hunt", adding: "I feel betrayed." "To be told you will be charged with murder 44 years after the incident has been a shock to the system," he told the Sun. he retired grandfather added: “Until last week I was looking forward to retiring and taking a few holidays abroad. But life’s on hold now. I’d like a minister to stand up in Parliament and say something.” It was revealed earlier this week that the criminal investigation into McCann's death has been unable to locate or question two undercover policemen who may have opened fire during the incident, because files identifying the anonymous officers have been lost. Another soldier involved in the incident has since died. The prosecution of Soldier A and another man, known as Soldier C, has prompted outrage and raises the prospect of other British troops who served in Northern Ireland during the Troubles also being charged. t emerged earlier this month that as many as 1,000 are being investigated over 302 killings which took place from 1969. McCann, 24, was shot as he tried to flee a Belfast security checkpoint. The incident was investigated at the time and both soldiers were cleared, but the file has since been reopened by the Historical Enquiries Team, which was set up in 2005 by the Police Service of Northern Ireland. The two soldiers are likely to appear in court next year, after the Public Prosecution Service in Northern Ireland said it had decided to prosecute the men for murder. When the decision was announced, a Public Prosecution Service (PPS) spokesman said: "The decision was reached following an objective and impartial application of the test for prosecution that was conducted in accordance with the code for prosecutors and with the benefit of advice from senior counsel." Soldier A, who served 23 years in the Armed Forces, said he had received a letter at the time saying no action would be taken. “Now I’ve been treated with contempt by the Northern Ireland prosecution system," he said.

A former paratrooper who is facing prosecution over the alleged murder of an IRA commander has said he feels betrayed by the British Government.

The unnamed widowed soldier, 67, known as Soldier A, was with a group of soldiers when Joe McCann, a senior leader in the Official IRA at the time, was shot and killed in 1972. A criminal investigation into his death was reopened in 2012.

The ex-soldier said he felt he was now being treated "like a terrorist".

He said the Government was "doing nothing" about the "witch-hunt", adding: "I feel betrayed."

"To be told you will be charged with murder 44 years after the incident has been a shock to the system," he told the Sun.