Big Sean Reveals Fourth Album 'I Decided,' Unleashes New 'Moves': Listen
Big Sean Reveals Fourth Album 'I Decided,' Unleashes New 'Moves': Listen
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Big Sean Reveals Fourth Album 'I Decided,' Unleashes New 'Moves': Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Big Sean is ready for a big return. The hip-hop star revealed details overnight on his fourth album, , which is scheduled to drop Feb. 3, 2017. Sean tweeted its release date, artwork and shared the new track “Moves” as an instant grat download for album pre-orders. I Decided. Album Pre-Order now available everywhere. https://t.co/u5zIpBxtUw  #IDecided  pic.twitter.com/dNeip3s0HM The tune is low-key, sexy and shoots from the hip. It’s all about the moves.“You gotta move/She make that back move/She made her titties move/I make the city move,” he raps.   “Moves” is the second of the forthcoming album’s 14 tracks to get a release after Sean dropped “Bounce Back” in early November . The full tracklist remains a mystery. is the followup to 2015’s , which reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Big Sean’s previous two albums, from 2014 and from 2011, both peaked at No. 3 on the survey. Stream "Moves" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Big Sean is ready for a big return.

The hip-hop star revealed details overnight on his fourth album, I Decided, which is scheduled to drop Feb. 3, 2017.

Sean tweeted its release date, artwork and shared the new track “Moves” as an instant grat download for album pre-orders.

The tune is low-key, sexy and shoots from the hip. It’s all about the moves.“You gotta move/She make that back move/She made her titties move/I make the city move,” he raps.

“Moves” is the second of the forthcoming album’s 14 tracks to get a release after Sean dropped “Bounce Back” in early November. The full tracklist remains a mystery.

I Decided is the followup to 2015’s Dark Sky Paradise, which reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Big Sean’s previous two albums, Hall of Fame from 2014 and Finally Famous from 2011, both peaked at No. 3 on the survey.

Stream "Moves" below.