Tiger Woods Tweets Odd Photo of Himself as a Shirtless 'Mack Daddy Santa' for His Children
Tiger Woods Tweets Odd Photo of Himself as a Shirtless 'Mack Daddy Santa' for His Children
Most of the public knows Tiger Woods for mastering the game of golf—as well as some other things that we'll leave alone for now. But what many find surprising about the golf legend is that he actually has a sense of humor. Woods posted a half-naked photo of himself with a fake white beard, Santa Claus hat underneath an all-black Raiders cap, and wrap-around black shades on his Twitter account Tuesday. According to Tiger, this head-scratching photo is an annual Christmas tradition for his childrens' entertainment, because the caption in the tweet reads, "Xmas tradition that my kids love. Mac Daddy Santa is back!" Understandably, most of Tiger's social media followers didn't get the very, very inside joke. So they decided to make some jokes of their own. Here are some of the better reactions: 'Hey honey, the Mac Daddy Santa is coming to town tonight' 'The what' 'Mac Daddy Santa' 'What's wrong with you' 'Well, you see Tiger Woods p The irony of Tiger Woods calling himself Mac Daddy Santa and him getting put on blast for all his hoes a couple years ago is funny af No way @TigerWoods THIS is the real Mac Daddy Santa! pic.twitter.com/zqFUtAv1z4 Remember that day when your entire timeline became shirtless Tiger Woods Santa pictures? @TigerWoods I guarantee that your kids do not love "Mac Daddy Santa" Mac Daddy Santa is everything I thought Tiger Woods was not. https://t.co/7DDVVLNmmA A moment has been formed.  ⚡️ “Tiger Woods is... 'Mac Daddy Santa'? 🤔” https://t.co/pNO2tesK4c I happen to think that Tiger Woods "Mac Daddy Santa"/Big Poppa Pump/Guy Fieri pic is...RATHER HOT.  Okay. Carry on. Don't mind me.

Most of the public knows Tiger Woods for mastering the game of golf—as well as some other things that we'll leave alone for now. But what many find surprising about the golf legend is that he actually has a sense of humor.

Woods posted a hopefully just half-naked photo of himself with a fake white beard, Santa Claus hat underneath an all-black Raiders cap, and wrap-around black shades on his Twitter account Tuesday.

According to Tiger, this head-scratching photo is an annual Christmas tradition for his childrens' entertainment, because the caption in the tweet reads, "Xmas tradition that my kids love. Mac Daddy Santa is back!"

Understandably, most of Tiger's social media followers didn't get the very, very inside joke. So they decided to make some jokes of their own.

Here are some of the better reactions:

'Hey honey, the Mac Daddy Santa is coming to town tonight'

'The what'

'Mac Daddy Santa'

'What's wrong with you'

'Well, you see Tiger Woods p — #Rake (@SteveCarterPP) December 22, 2016

The irony of Tiger Woods calling himself Mac Daddy Santa and him getting put on blast for all his hoes a couple years ago is funny af — Myra. (@MyraTheRiot) December 22, 2016

No way @TigerWoods THIS is the real Mac Daddy Santa! pic.twitter.com/zqFUtAv1z4 — Dane Cook (@DaneCook) December 22, 2016

Remember that day when your entire timeline became shirtless Tiger Woods Santa pictures? — Brett Taylor (@BleacherNation) December 22, 2016

@TigerWoods I guarantee that your kids do not love "Mac Daddy Santa" — Jack (@jackbialczak) December 22, 2016

Mac Daddy Santa is everything I thought Tiger Woods was not.https://t.co/7DDVVLNmmA — camz (@kingnarrygirl12) December 22, 2016

A moment has been formed.



⚡️ “Tiger Woods is... 'Mac Daddy Santa'? 🤔”https://t.co/pNO2tesK4c — TWfans (@TwSpot) December 22, 2016