Elon Musk says Tesla's upgraded Autopilot might arrive next week
Elon Musk says Tesla's upgraded Autopilot might arrive next week
Tesla's upgraded Autopilot, which will give the company's newer Model S and Model X cars a number of self-driving features, might arrive next week. In a tweet Friday, Musk said that the company "might be ready to rollout most of Autopilot functionality for HW2 towards the end of next week." SEE ALSO: Elon Musk seems serious about creating a boring company to solve traffic Looks like we might be ready to rollout most of Autopilot functionality for HW2 towards the end of next week — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) December 23, 2016 In late November, Musk announced a mid-December launch date for the new features, though he did say they would get rolled out "incrementally." What, exactly, will be updated is anyone's guess. Cars with new Autopilot hardware, which includes eight cameras and 12 ultrasonic sensors, started rolling out in October. But the switch was confusing for some users, as the newer software actually didn't have all the features that were present on the older cars. This update should restore at least some of these. Tesla calls the new software "Enhanced Autopilot," and it has roughly the same feature set as the old one, but implemented with better accuracy. Tesla highlights the following features for the update: matching speed to traffic conditions, keeping within a lane, automatically changing lanes without requiring driver input, transitioning from one freeway to another, exiting the freeway when the destination is near, self-parking when near a parking spot and the ability to summon the car to and from the owner's garage. In another Autopilot update, which has been rolled to some users last week, Tesla owners will no longer be able to set Autopilot to go faster than the speed limit, has reported . BONUS: Elon Musk's $2.6 billion bet on a clean energy empire

Tesla's upgraded Autopilot, which will give the company's newer Model S and Model X cars a number of self-driving features, might arrive next week.

In a tweet Friday, Musk said that the company "might be ready to rollout most of Autopilot functionality for HW2 towards the end of next week."

SEE ALSO: Elon Musk seems serious about creating a boring company to solve traffic

Looks like we might be ready to rollout most of Autopilot functionality for HW2 towards the end of next week — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) December 23, 2016

In late November, Musk announced a mid-December launch date for the new features, though he did say they would get rolled out "incrementally."

What, exactly, will be updated is anyone's guess. Cars with new Autopilot hardware, which includes eight cameras and 12 ultrasonic sensors, started rolling out in October. But the switch was confusing for some users, as the newer software actually didn't have all the features that were present on the older cars. This update should restore at least some of these.

Tesla calls the new software "Enhanced Autopilot," and it has roughly the same feature set as the old one, but implemented with better accuracy. Tesla highlights the following features for the update: matching speed to traffic conditions, keeping within a lane, automatically changing lanes without requiring driver input, transitioning from one freeway to another, exiting the freeway when the destination is near, self-parking when near a parking spot and the ability to summon the car to and from the owner's garage.

In another Autopilot update, which has been rolled to some users last week, Tesla owners will no longer be able to set Autopilot to go faster than the speed limit, Electrek has reported.