Arjun Kapoor Is All Set To Make His Third Appearance On Koffee With Karan Season 5, But Why?
Arjun Kapoor Is All Set To Make His Third Appearance On Koffee With Karan Season 5, But Why?
Arjun Kapoor Is All Set To Make His Third Appearance On Koffee With Karan Season 5, But Why? Fubu, or as the world knows him - Arjun Kapoor - is one of the nicest people onscreen. He's funny, hardworking and is one of those guys who will make it once he chooses some better scripts, cause I am a Fubu fan and I know it. While many industry bigwigs have to wait for years to make a second coming onto the Bollywood's beloved Koffee With Karana, Fubu is all set to make his third appearance in just this season. After his own yaarana episode and facing the wettest of kisses courtesy Ranveer Singh on Karan Jo's couch (no pun intended), he will now be seen sitting pretty between Katrina and Anushkaa in the next episode. Let's delve deeper into his KWK season 5 adventures. He first appeared on this season in his own episode where he shared Karan's  Koffee couch (no-pun-intended) with his pal Varun Dhawan. If you haven't heard of that one, it's not your fault, no one remembers that one anyways. His famous appearance on this season came on the next episode where Ranbir and Ranveer were the infamous guests who used him as the Kissing-bag in the #KissWithRanbir and #KissWithRanveer segment. And now he will be a special guest again, this time making all Indian men jealous finding a spot between the beautiful Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma. But why? Why is he there every alternate episode? Why is he playing Guillermo to Karan's Kimmel? Why is he becoming furniture on KWK? Well, it can be a because he's shooting at YRF studios and just keeps dropping onto sets of KWK. Or that he's seriously short on work, we surely don't hope so! But more than his presence on the show, we are curious about his actions. In the teaser for the episode, he is seen sitting between the two beautiful guests.

Fubu, or as the world knows him - Arjun Kapoor - is one of the nicest people onscreen. He's funny, hardworking and is one of those guys who will make it once he chooses some better scripts, cause I am a Fubu fan and I know it.

While many industry bigwigs have to wait for years to make a second coming onto the Bollywood's beloved Koffee With Karana, Fubu is all set to make his third appearance in just this season. After his own yaarana episode and facing the wettest of kisses courtesy Ranveer Singh on Karan Jo's couch (no pun intended), he will now be seen sitting pretty between Katrina and Anushkaa in the next episode.

Let's delve deeper into his KWK season 5 adventures. He first appeared on this season in his own episode where he shared Karan's Koffee couch (no-pun-intended) with his pal Varun Dhawan. If you haven't heard of that one, it's not your fault, no one remembers that one anyways.

Star World

His famous appearance on this season came on the next episode where Ranbir and Ranveer were the infamous guests who used him as the Kissing-bag in the #KissWithRanbir and #KissWithRanveer segment.

Star World

And now he will be a special guest again, this time making all Indian men jealous finding a spot between the beautiful Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma.

Star World

But why? Why is he there every alternate episode? Why is he playing Guillermo to Karan's Kimmel? Why is he becoming furniture on KWK?

Well, it can be a because he's shooting at YRF studios and just keeps dropping onto sets of KWK. Or that he's seriously short on work, we surely don't hope so!

We appreciate the fact that he didn't barge onto the SRK, Aamir or Salman episodes, even though he is a major Sallu-fans.

But more than his presence on the show, we are curious about his actions. In the teaser for the episode, he is seen sitting between the two beautiful guests.

So does this mean he will be the lucky kissing-bag again?

It could happen, maybe the producers didn't want controversies to affect the airing of the show and didn't show those parts.

But what if, Karan decides to drop a wrench into Arjun's plans and decides to alter the format of the show; maybe he becomes a punching bag.

Well, he played the object of desire to the men, maybe now he has to do something for their exes too. We are just curious.