Total stranger pays for woman's Christmas presents after her card was declined
Total stranger pays for woman's Christmas presents after her card was declined
LONDON — Whether you love it or loathe it, Christmas brings out the best in all of us. It's a time for generosity and kindness — two things that often arise from the most unexpected of circumstances. SEE ALSO: Couple Pays It Forward With Big Tip for Bad Service One shopper at the Trafford Centre, Manchester, found herself on the receiving end of an unexpected act of generosity. Jemma — whose surname is unknown — was shopping for gifts in cosmetics store LUSH with her son when her card was declined. After the card was declined a second time, Jemma told the cashier to keep the gifts behind the till while she went to an ATM. When she returned soon after, the cashier handed Jemma a bag and told her that someone had purchased the gifts for her and left a note. The note, which was written on the receipt, read: "I know how stressful this time of year can be! Have a great Christmas! Bethany xxx." "I was in shock and asked her who the woman was I went round looking for her which I couldn't find her I just wanted to say thank you and I really appreciate what she has done!!" wrote Jemma in a Facebook post , shared to the Trafford Centre’s Facebook page by Zara Chowdhury. "Goes to show there are some really nice people in the world xxx," wrote Jemma. In the post — which has been shared over 10,000 times — Jemma urged others to help her find the woman who kindly paid for her gifts. She said she wants to thank the woman in person. Looks like the Christmas spirit is very much alive and well! BONUS: Celebrate the holiday season with an 8-bit version of 'Home Alone'

LONDON — Whether you love it or loathe it, Christmas brings out the best in all of us.



It's a time for generosity and kindness — two things that often arise from the most unexpected of circumstances.

SEE ALSO: Couple Pays It Forward With Big Tip for Bad Service

One shopper at the Trafford Centre, Manchester, found herself on the receiving end of an unexpected act of generosity. Jemma — whose surname is unknown — was shopping for gifts in cosmetics store LUSH with her son when her card was declined.



After the card was declined a second time, Jemma told the cashier to keep the gifts behind the till while she went to an ATM. When she returned soon after, the cashier handed Jemma a bag and told her that someone had purchased the gifts for her and left a note.

The note, which was written on the receipt, read: "I know how stressful this time of year can be! Have a great Christmas! Bethany xxx."

"I was in shock and asked her who the woman was I went round looking for her which I couldn't find her I just wanted to say thank you and I really appreciate what she has done!!" wrote Jemma in a Facebook post, shared to the Trafford Centre’s Facebook page by Zara Chowdhury.

"Goes to show there are some really nice people in the world xxx," wrote Jemma.

In the post — which has been shared over 10,000 times — Jemma urged others to help her find the woman who kindly paid for her gifts. She said she wants to thank the woman in person.

Looks like the Christmas spirit is very much alive and well!