Joey Barton charged by Football Association over breach of betting rules... 1,260 bets over a 10-year period
Joey Barton charged by Football Association over breach of betting rules... 1,260 bets over a 10-year period
oey Barton’s playing career has been plunged into doubt with the midfielder facing the prospect of a lengthy ban after being accused of placing more than 1,200 bets on football over the past decade. Barton, who has agreed a deal in principle to rejoin Burnley after having his contract with Rangers terminated last month, has been charged with misconduct by the Football Association in relation to allegedly flouting betting rules. The 34-year-old, whose chequered career has been plagued by controversies on and off the field, is alleged to have placed 1,260 bets on football between March 26, 2006 and May 13 this year in breach of FA rule E8. Barton has been given until Jan 5 to respond to the charge. The case will then be dealt with by an independent disciplinary commission. There are no details of which matches he is alleged to have bet on but it is understood that Barton is alleged to have placed wagers on competitions in which he was involved. The FA was made aware of Barton’s alleged betting patterns only in September after being tipped off by a betting company, which prompted months of investigation by the integrity unit within the governing body’s governance department culminating in Friday’s charge. arton has yet to serve a one-match ban issued last month by the Scottish Football Association after admitting to placing 44 separate bets on football games between July 1 and Sept 15 this year while at Rangers, where he was involved in a training ground altercation in September. He now faces the prospect of a long ban from the FA that could impact on his future playing career if found guilty of more alleged betting infringements. Andros Townsend, the Crystal Palace winger, was given a four-month ban, three of which were suspended, in June 2013 for flouting betting regulations while at Tottenham Hotspur. He missed playing for England in the European Under-21 Championship finals as a consequence. Last month, Nick Bunyard, the manager of non-League Frome Town, was suspended from football for three years after being found to have bet against his own teams. Bunyard admitting to placing 45 bets against Frome and his former club Paulton Rovers. In total, he placed 97 bets on football between Sept 13 2014 and April 9 2016. urnley have yet to formally sign Barton, who was instrumental in helping the Lancashire club win promotion to the Premier League last season, and it is thought they are likely to monitor developments with the FA before deciding whether to complete a deal. In a statement released on Friday, Burnley said: “Burnley Football Club have today been made aware of FA charges brought against Joey Barton relating to historic betting on football matches. The club will be discussing the matter with Joey and his legal representatives and will be making no further comment on the matter at this time.” The Burnley manager, Sean Dyche, said: “We’ve agreed something in principle but he’s not contracted to the club so until that happens it’s an ongoing situation.” Rules banning betting were in place when Barton’s alleged offences began but the FA introduced new regulations in 2014 which prohibit players from betting on any football-related activity worldwide.

Joey Barton’s playing career has been plunged into doubt with the midfielder facing the prospect of a lengthy ban after being accused of placing more than 1,200 bets on football over the past decade.

Barton, who has agreed a deal in principle to rejoin Burnley after having his contract with Rangers terminated last month, has been charged with misconduct by the Football Association in relation to allegedly flouting betting rules.

The 34-year-old, whose chequered career has been plagued by controversies on and off the field, is alleged to have placed 1,260 bets on football between March 26, 2006 and May 13 this year in breach of FA rule E8. Barton has been given until Jan 5 to respond to the charge. The case will then be dealt with by an independent disciplinary commission.

There are no details of which matches he is alleged to have bet on but it is understood that Barton is alleged to have placed wagers on competitions in which he was involved.

The FA was made aware of Barton’s alleged betting patterns only in September after being tipped off by a betting company, which prompted months of investigation by the integrity unit within the governing body’s governance department culminating in Friday’s charge.