'Pretty Little Liars' Star Lucy Hale to Hackers Who Released Nudes: 'Kiss My Ass'
'Pretty Little Liars' Star Lucy Hale to Hackers Who Released Nudes: 'Kiss My Ass'
star Lucy Hale shared a special message for the hackers responsible for a recent nude photo leak. "Well, I wasn't going to comment on something so ridiculous, but since 2017 is gonna be all about speaking my truth… I'm going to say something," Hale said on Twitter. "Once again, a woman in the public eye was violated, stolen from and her private life and body were exposed for anyone to see." Hale added that the allowance of this level of exposure is "unfortunate," closing out her open letter with a firm sendoff. " pic.twitter.com/FKL7PXw6pc Sadly, some people just don't get it and will continue criticizing the victim: @AliCornelliac why would I be embarrassed ? I got violated and someone illegally stole my photos. Embarrassed? No. angry? Yes. The leak, according to  , included two photos allegedly taken from Hale's phone. The photos are "Hale's property" and would ultimately result in a copyright infringement lawsuit, Hale's attorney Marty Singer said in a "sternly worded letter" to the offending website. The photos were subsequently removed and replaced with what described as "doctored images of Hale's face on other bodies." Earlier this week, Hale thanked her nearly six million Twitter followers for the support. "I love you guys," she said. "Thanks for having my back always." I love you guys 🌞❤️ thanks for having my back always

Pretty Little Liars star Lucy Hale shared a special message for the hackers responsible for a recent nude photo leak. "Well, I wasn't going to comment on something so ridiculous, but since 2017 is gonna be all about speaking my truth… I'm going to say something," Hale said on Twitter. "Once again, a woman in the public eye was violated, stolen from and her private life and body were exposed for anyone to see."

Hale added that the allowance of this level of exposure is "unfortunate," closing out her open letter with a firm sendoff. "And to whoever did this…kiss my ass."

Sadly, some people just don't get it and will continue criticizing the victim:

@AliCornelliac why would I be embarrassed ? I got violated and someone illegally stole my photos. Embarrassed? No. angry? Yes. — Lucy Hale (@lucyhale) December 23, 2016

The leak, according to Page Six, included two photos allegedly taken from Hale's phone. The photos are "Hale's property" and would ultimately result in a copyright infringement lawsuit, Hale's attorney Marty Singer said in a "sternly worded letter" to the offending website. The photos were subsequently removed and replaced with what Page Six described as "doctored images of Hale's face on other bodies."

Earlier this week, Hale thanked her nearly six million Twitter followers for the support. "I love you guys," she said. "Thanks for having my back always."