Co-op recalls 165,000 chocolate Santas after batteries found inside two
Co-op recalls 165,000 chocolate Santas after batteries found inside two
The Co-op grocery chain has urgently recalled 165,000 milk chocolate Santas after someone apparently inserted small watch batteries into an unknown number. The retailer said two customers found batteries in their chocolate figures and that it was now investigating the matter.   Samsung recalls 2.8 million washing machines due to risk of explosion Lithium batteries are often used to power toys, remote controls and birthday cards and can cause severe life-changing injury or even death in young children if accidently swallowed. The working assumption is that someone “deliberately” placed the batteries inside the hollow chocolate treat, a spokesperson for Co-op told . The chocolates that had been subject to tampering were bought at two different locations. Read more How to follow Father Chistmas using a dedicated 'Santa tracker' One third of people check their work emails over Christmas Lidl told of paint thinner in gravy 'two weeks before public recall' Kraft is recalling more cheese slices after people choked on plastic The German-manufactured Santas are also available from other retailers. Co-op has advised customers not to eat the treats until the issue is resolved. A spokesperson for Co-op said: “The health and safety of our customers is our top priority. We are concerned about two separate instances of alleged product tampering involving our hollow milk chocolate Santa foil figures, which have been found to contain a small battery. As a result we have begun a UK-wide product recall.” The supermarket products that cost the same while shrinking in size               The supermarket products that cost the same while shrinking in size    McVitie's Digestives biscuits   In Tesco, these biscuits were sold for £1.59 before they shrank and increased to £1.69 after. They stayed at £1 in Asda.   Which?     Tropicana orange and raspberry juice   Size before: 1 litre Size after: 850ml This juice cost £2.48 in Asda both before and after it shrank.   Which?     Sensodyne toothpaste   In Tesco, this sold for ‘£2.40 was £3.60’ before it shrank, then £3.49. In Morrisons it was £4 before it shrank, and then £3.49 after, which is more per 100g.   Which?     Percol coffee   Size before: 227g Size after: 200g This coffee was £3.90 in Sainsbury’s and Waitrose before it shrank, and £3.65 and £3.75 respectively after – both of which are more per 100g.   Which?     Dettol bathroom wipes   Size before: 36 Size after: 32 These were £2 in Tesco and Ocado before they shrank, then £2 in Tesco and £2.03 in Ocado afterwards.   Which?  The police and Food Standards Agency were notified. Anyone who is concerned should call Freephone 0800 0686 727, Co-op added. No other products are affected. More about: Food Standards Agency co-op Comments

The Co-op grocery chain has urgently recalled 165,000 milk chocolate Santas after someone apparently inserted small watch batteries into an unknown number.

The retailer said two customers found batteries in their chocolate figures and that it was now investigating the matter.

Lithium batteries are often used to power toys, remote controls and birthday cards and can cause severe life-changing injury or even death in young children if accidently swallowed.

The working assumption is that someone “deliberately” placed the batteries inside the hollow chocolate treat, a spokesperson for Co-op told The Independent.

The chocolates that had been subject to tampering were bought at two different locations.

The German-manufactured Santas are also available from other retailers. Co-op has advised customers not to eat the treats until the issue is resolved.

A spokesperson for Co-op said: “The health and safety of our customers is our top priority. We are concerned about two separate instances of alleged product tampering involving our hollow milk chocolate Santa foil figures, which have been found to contain a small battery. As a result we have begun a UK-wide product recall.”

The supermarket products that cost the same while shrinking in size







5 show all The supermarket products that cost the same while shrinking in size







1/5 McVitie's Digestives biscuits In Tesco, these biscuits were sold for £1.59 before they shrank and increased to £1.69 after. They stayed at £1 in Asda. Which?

2/5 Tropicana orange and raspberry juice Size before: 1 litre Size after: 850ml This juice cost £2.48 in Asda both before and after it shrank. Which?

3/5 Sensodyne toothpaste In Tesco, this sold for ‘£2.40 was £3.60’ before it shrank, then £3.49. In Morrisons it was £4 before it shrank, and then £3.49 after, which is more per 100g. Which?

4/5 Percol coffee Size before: 227g Size after: 200g This coffee was £3.90 in Sainsbury’s and Waitrose before it shrank, and £3.65 and £3.75 respectively after – both of which are more per 100g. Which?

5/5 Dettol bathroom wipes Size before: 36 Size after: 32 These were £2 in Tesco and Ocado before they shrank, then £2 in Tesco and £2.03 in Ocado afterwards. Which?

The police and Food Standards Agency were notified.

Anyone who is concerned should call Freephone 0800 0686 727, Co-op added.

No other products are affected.