Berlin, Donald Trump, Christmas: Your Friday Briefing
Berlin, Donald Trump, Christmas: Your Friday Briefing
Anis Amri , the Tunisian wanted in the terrorist attack on a Christmas market this week, was killed by the police in a shootout outside Milan early this morning, the Italian interior minister said at a news conference. Mr. Amri was asked to show identification papers during a routine stop and immediately opened fire at police officers. Separately, Australia says it averted a terrorist plot in Melbourne — possibly on Christmas Day — with the arrest of five people. Advertisement All 109 passengers and crew members are now safe after their plane bound for the capital, Tripoli, was forced to land in Malta today. Advertisement Two hijackers who had threatened to detonate an explosive device were taken into custody, officials said. President-elect Donald J. Trump’s declaration on Twitter that the U.S. should greatly “expand its nuclear capability” is likely to remain a major topic of discussion today. Mr. Trump’s words are at odds with decades of bipartisan efforts to reduce the role of such weapons in the military, and they can be interpreted in several ways . His transition team has also begun discussions with border officials on where a wall separating the U.S. from Mexico — one of his signature campaign promises — could be built. Our reporters spent weeks with gang members in Chicago to understand what being in one means. Once well-organized operations built around drug dealing, they’re now little more than dangerous cliques. “If we are making money, I can ignore the urge to retaliate. But if we’re sitting here bored, getting high and we got guns around, it ain’t nothing else to do,” one member said. President Bashar al-Assad’s forces now control Aleppo for the first time since 2012. While the victory will bolster the morale of his troops, his next steps are unclear . Mr. Assad is widely seen as lacking the military ability to both keep government-held ground and take back territories held by rebels and the Islamic State. Advertisement “For me, the sadness of his death was surpassed only by the sadness of his solitude.” That’s a doctor referring to the social isolation of a former patient during his final days. About one-third of Americans older than 65 now live alone, and half of those over 85 do. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business announced a tentative $7.2 billion settlement to resolve a U.S. federal investigation into the sale of toxic mortgage securities. Credit Suisse settled similar claims for $5.3 billion . a royalty for the use of its patents for five years. The deal expires on Dec. 31, however, and Apple is refusing to keep paying, resulting in dozens of lawsuits in 11 countries. “is rife with stale, retrograde gender stereotypes,” a video game critic writes . But gamemakers are trying to make competitions, or e-sports, more appealing to women . were down on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Noteworthy Our latest 360 video shows how the Young family, a recipient of the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, created a winter wonderland in the Bronx. A Bronx Garden For All Seasons Battling health issues, the Young family found solace in restoring a run-down community garden. Step inside as the family, a recipient of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, creates a winter wonderland.      One of our most-read articles this week was about Steve Kerr , the head coach of the N.B.A.’s Golden State Warriors. He reflects on how his worldview was shaped by the death of his father, who was assassinated while serving as president of the American University of Beirut in Lebanon in 1984. Advertisement We also look back at the life of Rashaan Salaam , a 1990s college football star who was found dead this month at age 42. He had been working as a counselor for high school students in Colorado. “Rashaan was trying to save lives, but he had trouble saving his own life,” a colleague said. We review films including “ Hidden Figures ,” which honors three black women who played vital roles in America’s early space program, and Martin Scorsese’s “ Silence ,” about Jesuit priests in 17th-century Japan. And then there’s a scathing rebuke of “ Why Him? ”, in which James Franco plays a tech billionaire. It is “trite, crass and insultingly moronic,” our reviewer writes. Two Baltic cities are in a feud over which had the world’s first decorated Christmas tree . Riga, the capital of Latvia, says it was first, in 1510. Tallinn, in Estonia, disputes that. Civic pride and tourist dollars are at stake. Take it easy on yourself and order in, but keep this one-pot French onion soup with garlic croutons in your back pocket. Advertisement Back Story We all know what it’s like to get a less-than-ideal gift. Compare your own this season with some of the oddities our journalists have received. Alissa J. Rubin, our Paris bureau chief, remembers that she was given a copper-colored, plasticky statuette of an Egyptian sphinx when she covered the war in Iraq: “It had translucent bright blue eyes, and it would light up.” Another one that sticks out: “A Saddam watch.” Marc Lacey, our national editor and a former international correspondent, still has an Iraqi translator’s disconcerting gift: “A painting by an artist said to have painted Saddam Hussein himself, showing a man in a flowing white robe on a majestic white steed holding a sword toward the heavens. He had my face.” Jim Yardley, our Europe editor, recalls a range of gifts when he was covering China: “A plaque with a photograph of a local dam project. A few tea sets. And Olympics swag, including a stuffed doll of one of the Beijing mascots, ‘The Friendlies.’ ” Andrew Jacobs, a correspondent, remembers another gift to the Beijing bureau: “a compressed Frisbee-sized disc of tea shaped in the image of the Chinese helicopter tycoon who was giving them out.” No one, he says, drank the tea. Happy Holidays! We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Two hijackers who had threatened to detonate an explosive device were taken into custody, officials said.

• Trump on national defense.

President-elect Donald J. Trump’s declaration on Twitter that the U.S. should greatly “expand its nuclear capability” is likely to remain a major topic of discussion today.

Mr. Trump’s words are at odds with decades of bipartisan efforts to reduce the role of such weapons in the military, and they can be interpreted in several ways.

Photo

His transition team has also begun discussions with border officials on where a wall separating the U.S. from Mexico — one of his signature campaign promises — could be built.

• Gangster life: boring and terrifying.

Our reporters spent weeks with gang members in Chicago to understand what being in one means. Once well-organized operations built around drug dealing, they’re now little more than dangerous cliques.

Photo

“If we are making money, I can ignore the urge to retaliate. But if we’re sitting here bored, getting high and we got guns around, it ain’t nothing else to do,” one member said.

• Turning point in Syria’s war.

President Bashar al-Assad’s forces now control Aleppo for the first time since 2012. While the victory will bolster the morale of his troops, his next steps are unclear.

Photo

Mr. Assad is widely seen as lacking the military ability to both keep government-held ground and take back territories held by rebels and the Islamic State.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A growing epidemic.

“For me, the sadness of his death was surpassed only by the sadness of his solitude.”

That’s a doctor referring to the social isolation of a former patient during his final days. About one-third of Americans older than 65 now live alone, and half of those over 85 do.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Deutsche Bank announced a tentative $7.2 billion settlement to resolve a U.S. federal investigation into the sale of toxic mortgage securities. Credit Suisse settled similar claims for $5.3 billion.

• Apple has paid Nokia a royalty for the use of its patents for five years.

The deal expires on Dec. 31, however, and Apple is refusing to keep paying, resulting in dozens of lawsuits in 11 countries.

• Super Mario “is rife with stale, retrograde gender stereotypes,” a video game critic writes.

But gamemakers are trying to make competitions, or e-sports, more appealing to women.

• U.S. stocks were down on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Noteworthy

• A garden for all seasons.

Our latest 360 video shows how the Young family, a recipient of the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, created a winter wonderland in the Bronx.

Video

• Beyond sports.

One of our most-read articles this week was about Steve Kerr, the head coach of the N.B.A.’s Golden State Warriors. He reflects on how his worldview was shaped by the death of his father, who was assassinated while serving as president of the American University of Beirut in Lebanon in 1984.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We also look back at the life of Rashaan Salaam, a 1990s college football star who was found dead this month at age 42. He had been working as a counselor for high school students in Colorado.

“Rashaan was trying to save lives, but he had trouble saving his own life,” a colleague said.

• New at the movies.

We review films including “Hidden Figures,” which honors three black women who played vital roles in America’s early space program, and Martin Scorsese’s “Silence,” about Jesuit priests in 17th-century Japan.

And then there’s a scathing rebuke of “Why Him?”, in which James Franco plays a tech billionaire. It is “trite, crass and insultingly moronic,” our reviewer writes.

• Holiday throwdown.

Two Baltic cities are in a feud over which had the world’s first decorated Christmas tree.

Riga, the capital of Latvia, says it was first, in 1510. Tallinn, in Estonia, disputes that. Civic pride and tourist dollars are at stake.

• Recipe of the day.

Take it easy on yourself and order in, but keep this one-pot French onion soup with garlic croutons in your back pocket.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Back Story

We all know what it’s like to get a less-than-ideal gift. Compare your own this season with some of the oddities our journalists have received.

Alissa J. Rubin, our Paris bureau chief, remembers that she was given a copper-colored, plasticky statuette of an Egyptian sphinx when she covered the war in Iraq: “It had translucent bright blue eyes, and it would light up.” Another one that sticks out: “A Saddam watch.”

Photo

Marc Lacey, our national editor and a former international correspondent, still has an Iraqi translator’s disconcerting gift: “A painting by an artist said to have painted Saddam Hussein himself, showing a man in a flowing white robe on a majestic white steed holding a sword toward the heavens. He had my face.”

Jim Yardley, our Europe editor, recalls a range of gifts when he was covering China: “A plaque with a photograph of a local dam project. A few tea sets. And Olympics swag, including a stuffed doll of one of the Beijing mascots, ‘The Friendlies.’ ”

Andrew Jacobs, a correspondent, remembers another gift to the Beijing bureau: “a compressed Frisbee-sized disc of tea shaped in the image of the Chinese helicopter tycoon who was giving them out.” No one, he says, drank the tea.

Happy Holidays!

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.