Find the perfect champagne this Christmas nu choosing one with BIG bubbles
Cheers! the secret to finding the perfect champagne this Christmas


The presence of a steady stream of tiny bubbles cascading upwards in a glass of champagne has long been lauded as a sign of quality by wine connoisseurs.

But new research suggests this widely held belief - that the smaller the bubbles in the champagne the better the drink will be - is not necessarily true.

Instead, scientists based in the heart of France's Champagne-Ardenne region have found larger bubbles may actually improve the way a sparkling wine tastes.

Scroll down for video

Researchers have explored how bubbles affect the taste of sparkling wine. A few seconds after pouring, the surface of a champagne flute is covered with a layer of disperse millimetric bubbles, where bubbles arrange themselves in an approximate hexagonal pattern

THE PERFECT CHAMPAGNE The bubble size study is the latest in a long line of research by Professor Liger-Belair and his colleagues. Previously they have shown that chilling champagne can help to reduce the amount of alcohol carried up in each bubble. This can prevent more delicate flavours from being overpowered. Cooling a bottle of champagne to 4 degrees C (39 degrees F) can also help to reduce the speed of the cork as it leaves the bottle, preventing accidents, they found. Tilting the glass when pouring can also help prevent it from overflowing. Drinking from a flute rather than a wider coupe glass can also help to enhance the flavour due to the way the bubbles mix in a glass.

They have discovered that the presence of larger bubbles, around 3.4mm (0.1in) across at the surface, dramatically enhances the release of aerosols into the air above the glass.

This means important aromatic compounds that give champagne its distinctive smell and flavour are flung into the drinker's nose when they take a sip.

Professor Gérard Liger-Belair, a chemical physicist at the University of Reims who led the research, said: 'This result is also remarkable as it undermines the popular belief that the smaller the bubbles, the better the champagne.

'Small bubbles were the worst in terms of aroma release.'

Around one million bubbles form in the average glass of champagne, according to Professor Liger-Belair.

The bubbles form due to the dissolved carbon dioxide, which forms in the wine due to a second fermentation process that occurs during production inside the sealed bottles.

When the bottle is opened, this gas is released, often explosively, causing the champagne to foam.

The remaining gas then gradually bubbles to the surface in the glass.

These bubbles form a 'raft' on the surface and then collapse, releasing a cloud of tiny droplets that produce the pleasurable experience when drinking champagne.

Using high-speed photography and imaging techniques, Professor Liger-Belair and his colleagues have been able to study precisely what happens to a champagne bubble.

In a study published in a special issue of the European Physical Journal Special Topics, they show that the bubbles form a regular hexagonal pattern on the surface.

When a bubble collapses, this creates a cavity that stretches and strains the neighbouring bubbles, producing a pattern that looks similar to the petals of a flower.

The team used laser tomography techniques to reveal the differences in how bubbles flow in champagne glasses. The coupe (pictured) has 'dead zones' around the edge of the glass

In the flute (pictured), vortices mix the liquid beneath the entire surface. The researchers say drinking from a champagne flute should be a more pleasurable experience

This, they say, increases the chances of the surrounding bubbles collapsing, creating an avalanche of tiny droplets being thrown into the air at the top of the glass.

Traditionally wine professionals often use bubble size as a marker of quality - with larger bubbles in cheap sparkling wines like Prosecco and Cava.

Professor Liger-Belair said bubble size in champagne and sparkling can vary from between 0.4mm (0.015in) and 4mm (0.15in) across.

The viscosity of the drink and the glass into which it is poured can all influence how big these bubbles are.

But they found bubbles with a radius of 1.7mm across resulted in the highest number of droplets evaporating at the surface of the drink.

He said the research could help lead to innovations that could improve the taste of sparkling wines.

This image shows the flower-shaped structure, frozen through high-speed photography, found during the collapse of bubbles at the surface of a champagne flute during the researchers' work

He said: 'We showed that decreasing champagne viscosity would improve drop evaporation.

'Additives that would change wine viscosity without changing the taste might be used.

'These results pave the way towards fine tuning of champagne aroma diffusion.'

It is the latest in a long line of research by Professor Liger-Belair and his colleagues.

Previously they have shown that chilling champagne can help to reduce the amount of alcohol carried up in each bubble.

This can prevent more delicate flavours from being overpowered.

This image shows the flower-shaped structure, frozen through high-speed photography, found during the collapse of bubbles at the surface of a champagne flute during the researchers' work

Cooling a bottle of champagne to 4 degrees C (39 degrees F) can also help to reduce the speed of the cork as it leaves the bottle, preventing accidents, they found.

Tilting the glass when pouring can also help prevent it from overflowing.

Drinking from a flute rather than a wider coupe glass can also help to enhance the flavour due to the way the bubbles mix in a glass.