What to Expect During Your Holiday Travel
What to Expect During Your Holiday Travel


Officials said the 8-year-old daughter of Britney Spears' sister, Jamie Lynn Spears, is in critical condition after an accident involving an off-road vehicle.

The "GMA" team of insiders analyzes some of the biggest stories trending this morning.

The state's health department is describing influenza as "widespread" after four children died from it in January.

Lady Gaga is still basking in the glow of her blockbuster performance at the Super Bowl LI halftime show -- and so are her music sales.

ABC News' Lara Spencer reports the buzziest stories of the day in "GMA" Pop News,

An Illinois pet food company is voluntarily recalling five lots in its Hunk of Beef line because of a "potential contaminant pentobarbital" detected in one lot, according to a press release from the Federal Food and Drug Administration.

Christie Brinkley is back in one of the magazines that made her a superstar: the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue.

In his first appearance before Congress as secretary of Homeland Security, John Kelly called President Trump's executive order on immigration "lawful and constitutional."

A billionaire businessman and a former president appeared to be enjoying themselves on vacation.

Hundreds of delayed flights at Los Angeles International Airport led to major gridlock at terminals and on the runways, with planes sitting on the tarmac for hours.

It's the most wonderful time of the year -- once you get where you're going.

U.S. holiday travelers this season can expect an increase in traffic both in the air and on the ground, according to industry projections. In fact, one group's forecast indicates more Americans will travel this year-end holiday season than ever before.

Hitting the Road

Data from the American Automobile Association (AAA) says more than 103 million Americans are expected to travel during this year's holiday period.

According to AAA, the vast majority of them will be hoping in a car and taking to the nation's roadways. The group projects 93.6 million people will take a road trip, an increase of 1.5 percent over last year.

Lower gas prices and increased consumer spending are both driving forces behind the increase, according to the study.

Much of the Country to Get Warmer Weather for Christmas Weekend

Holiday Gifts for Travel Lovers

The Airlines

Airlines for America, the industry trade organization representing many of the nation's largest airlines, projects a 3.5 percent increase over last year's holiday travel period in passengers flying on U.S. airlines around the world.

View gallery What to Expect During Your Holiday Travel (ABC News)

A total of 45.2 million passengers will fly on the nation's domestic airlines during the 21-day period that began on Dec. 16, according to A4A. To keep up, the airlines will add 99,000 additional seats per day, a 3.9 percent increase over last year.

The busiest days in the sky are expected to be Dec. 22 and Dec 23. If you hate the crowds and are willing to wait, it may be wise to leave on Christmas Eve when projections indicate a lighter travel day.

The busiest airports this holiday season won't surprise the seasoned traveler. Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, Dallas, Denver and Charlotte are projected to carry a great deal of the weight during the travel rush.

Chinese Food for Christmas? NYC Deli Does A Twist on a Jewish Tradition

Ugly Christmas Sweaters to Get You in the Holiday Spirit

Top Destinations on Christmas Eve

For those on the ground, navigation app Waze studied its user's destinations on last year's Christmas Eve. The data reflected the many folks waiting till the last minute for their Christmas shopping. Trips to shopping locations increased 16% over the typical December day. Trips to the grocery store increased 34 percent.

But not all Christmas Eve errands are about procrastination.

Last year's data from Waze users showed an increase of 148 percent to places of worship on Christmas Eve than the typical December day.