Carrie Fisher 'Out of Emergency Room' After Suffering Heart Attack on Plane, Says Brother
Carrie Fisher 'Out of Emergency Room' After Suffering Heart Attack on Plane, Says Brother
Carrie Fisher 'Out of Emergency Room' After Suffering Heart Attack on Plane, Says Brother  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Carrie Fisher, the writer and actress famous for her iconic role as Princess Leia in the franchise, suffered a heart attack on a London to Los Angeles bound flight on Friday (Dec. 23). The 60-year-old actress was rushed to UCLA Medical Center by Los Angeles Fire Department paramedics after the 11-hour flight touched down at Los Angeles International Airport shortly after noon. Paramedics were standing by for the plane’s arrival and provided advanced life support and “aggressively treated and transported the patient to a local hospital,” fire department spokesman Erik Scott said. Her brother, Todd Fisher, told she was "out of the emergency room" at around 4 p.m. on Friday afternoon. He was heading to the hospital as of 6:15 p.m. after conflicting reports of her condition spread. He said he could not discuss any other details about what happened. On Saturday morning, the reported that she is receiving treatment in an intensive care unit and that her condition remains unknown.  A rep for the actress did not respond to 's request for comment. Fisher, who was returning from a book tour in the U.K., suffered the heart attack as the United Airlines flight was making an approach to LAX. Several passengers who were on board took to Twitter to say the actress received medical attention from airline staff and passengers who attempted to revive her. “Carrie Fisher stopped breathing on the flight home,” said YouTube star Anna Akana, who added that the actress "wasn't breathing for 10 minutes or so." According to an audio recording between airline staff and air traffic control, below, Fisher was not responding from efforts to revive her. "We have some passengers, nurses assisting the passenger," according to the recording. "We have an unresponsive passenger, so they're working on her right now." A spokesperson for United Airlines told : “Medical personnel met United flight 935 from London to Los Angeles upon arrival today after the crew reported that a passenger was unresponsive. Our thoughts are with our customer at this time and any requests for additional information should be directed to local authorities.” Entertainment website reported that paramedics worked on the actress for 15 minutes before they were able to get a pulse. She was then taken to UCLA Medical Center and placed on a ventilator. Her daughter Billie Lourd, along with her French bulldog Gary, arrived to the hospital shortly after. Fisher was in London filming the sitcom and promoting her recently published memoir, , which details her years on the set of the original film. "I'm shocked and saddened to hear the news about my dear friend," Harrison Ford told on Saturday morning about his longtime costar. "Our thoughts are with Carrie, her family and friends." Her costar Mark Hamill took to Twitter shortly after the news broke to say he was "sending all our love" to Fisher. Many of her friends in Hollywood, including her costars Gwendoline Christie and Peter Mayhew, also sent their thoughts via social media. William Shatner asked his followers to "send special thoughts" and story writer Gary Whitta tweeted, "Thoughts, hopes, and the Force are with you."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Carrie Fisher, the writer and actress famous for her iconic role as Princess Leia in the Star Wars franchise, suffered a heart attack on a London to Los Angeles bound flight on Friday (Dec. 23).

The 60-year-old actress was rushed to UCLA Medical Center by Los Angeles Fire Department paramedics after the 11-hour flight touched down at Los Angeles International Airport shortly after noon. Paramedics were standing by for the plane’s arrival and provided advanced life support and “aggressively treated and transported the patient to a local hospital,” fire department spokesman Erik Scott said.

Her brother, Todd Fisher, told The Hollywood Reporter she was "out of the emergency room" at around 4 p.m. on Friday afternoon. He was heading to the hospital as of 6:15 p.m. after conflicting reports of her condition spread. He said he could not discuss any other details about what happened.

On Saturday morning, the Associated Press reported that she is receiving treatment in an intensive care unit and that her condition remains unknown.

A rep for the actress did not respond to THR's request for comment.

Fisher, who was returning from a book tour in the U.K., suffered the heart attack as the United Airlines flight was making an approach to LAX. Several passengers who were on board took to Twitter to say the actress received medical attention from airline staff and passengers who attempted to revive her.

“Carrie Fisher stopped breathing on the flight home,” said YouTube star Anna Akana, who added that the actress "wasn't breathing for 10 minutes or so."

According to an audio recording between airline staff and air traffic control, below, Fisher was not responding from efforts to revive her. "We have some passengers, nurses assisting the passenger," according to the recording. "We have an unresponsive passenger, so they're working on her right now."

A spokesperson for United Airlines told THR: “Medical personnel met United flight 935 from London to Los Angeles upon arrival today after the crew reported that a passenger was unresponsive. Our thoughts are with our customer at this time and any requests for additional information should be directed to local authorities.”

Entertainment website TMZ reported that paramedics worked on the actress for 15 minutes before they were able to get a pulse. She was then taken to UCLA Medical Center and placed on a ventilator. Her daughter Billie Lourd, along with her French bulldog Gary, arrived to the hospital shortly after.

Fisher was in London filming the sitcom Catastrophe and promoting her recently published memoir, The Princess Diarist, which details her years on the set of the original Star Wars film.

"I'm shocked and saddened to hear the news about my dear friend," Harrison Ford told The Hollywood Reporter on Saturday morning about his longtime Star Wars costar. "Our thoughts are with Carrie, her family and friends."

Her Star Wars costar Mark Hamill took to Twitter shortly after the news broke to say he was "sending all our love" to Fisher. Many of her friends in Hollywood, including her Star Wars: The Force Awakens costars Gwendoline Christie and Peter Mayhew, also sent their thoughts via social media.

William Shatner asked his followers to "send special thoughts" and Rogue One: A Stars Wars story writer Gary Whitta tweeted, "Thoughts, hopes, and the Force are with you."

This article originally appeared in THR.com.