Uber Ships San Francisco Self-Driving Fleet To Arizona After California Standoff
Uber Ships San Francisco Self-Driving Fleet To Arizona After California Standoff
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alan Ohnsman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Uber's self-driving Volvo SUVs are shipped off to Arizona from San Francisco on Dec. 22 (Uber) Uber packed up its fleet of self-driving Volvo XC90 SUVs from its home city of San Francisco on Thursday and shipped them to Arizona following a puzzling standoff with California over a requirement that the ride-hailing giant get a $150 permit before testing the high-tech vehicles on public roads. Seeing an opportunity to capitalize on the matter, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey welcomed the ride-hailing company to his state on Thursday, saying in a statement that "California may not want you, but we do." “Our cars departed for Arizona this morning by truck," Uber said in a statement. "We’ll be expanding our self-driving pilot there in the next few weeks, and we’re excited to have the support of Governor Ducey.” The move came after California's Department of Motor Vehicles revoked registrations for all 16 vehicles Uber started testing in San Francisco on December 14. From the get-go, the company sparked a confrontation with state officials by saying it had determined on its own that there was no need to apply for an Autonomous Vehicle permit from the DMV. Uber announced it was shutting the program down on Wednesday, and would look for an opportunity to redeploy the vehicles. Jean Shiomoto, director of the state DMV, said in a letter to the company that California wanted Uber to conduct its test program in the state, and that it simply needed to apply for a permit first, offering to expedite the process so the company wouldn't have to wait the typical 72 hours it typically takes. Permit recipients must report accidents and how frequently the automated system disengages and a human driver takes over. Presumably, Uber did not wish to share that information, which the DMV posts to a public website. So far 20 companies, including Google, Ford, Honda, Nissan, Tesla, Delphi and Bosch have received permits and about 130 automated vehicles are being tested in California. In discussions with some of these companies, none found the application process to be particularly complex or onerous. As a result, Uber's motive in triggering the squabble remains unclear. Currently, the U.S. lacks national rules on the deployment of self-driving vehicles though the Department of Transportation issued proposed guidelines in September that would establish a countrywide framework. For now, individual states set their own rules for robotic vehicles operating on public roadways. Uber intends to be a leader in autonomous vehicle technology, and kicked off a test program in Pittsburgh in September that offers free rides to users in modified Ford Fusion sedans. The company also bought Otto this year, a maker of robotic truck technology that was co-founded by Anthony Levandowski, a former member of Google's self-driving car project. (The latter renamed itself Waymo and became a standalone business unit within Google parent Alphabet Inc. this month.) Levandowski now leads Uber's self-driving technology team and argued that the company didn't need a California permit, as its self-driving cars weren't really self-driving. The DMV and the California Attorney General's office strongly disagreed with that view, and demanded that Uber stop the program until it received a permit. “We’re now looking at where we can redeploy these cars, but remain 100 percent committed to California and will be redoubling our efforts to develop workable statewide rules,” the company said in a statement yesterday. What Uber gained from its defiance isn't clear, and its short-lived San Francisco experiment did little to alter its reputation as a rule breaker.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Uber packed up its fleet of self-driving Volvo XC90 SUVs from its home city of San Francisco on Thursday and shipped them to Arizona following a puzzling standoff with California over a requirement that the ride-hailing giant get a $150 permit before testing the high-tech vehicles on public roads.

Seeing an opportunity to capitalize on the matter, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey welcomed the ride-hailing company to his state on Thursday, saying in a statement that "California may not want you, but we do."

“Our cars departed for Arizona this morning by truck," Uber said in a statement. "We’ll be expanding our self-driving pilot there in the next few weeks, and we’re excited to have the support of Governor Ducey.”

The move came after California's Department of Motor Vehicles revoked registrations for all 16 vehicles Uber started testing in San Francisco on December 14. From the get-go, the company sparked a confrontation with state officials by saying it had determined on its own that there was no need to apply for an Autonomous Vehicle permit from the DMV.

Uber announced it was shutting the program down on Wednesday, and would look for an opportunity to redeploy the vehicles.

Jean Shiomoto, director of the state DMV, said in a letter to the company that California wanted Uber to conduct its test program in the state, and that it simply needed to apply for a permit first, offering to expedite the process so the company wouldn't have to wait the typical 72 hours it typically takes. Permit recipients must report accidents and how frequently the automated system disengages and a human driver takes over. Presumably, Uber did not wish to share that information, which the DMV posts to a public website.

So far 20 companies, including Google, Ford, Honda, Nissan, Tesla, Delphi and Bosch have received permits and about 130 automated vehicles are being tested in California. In discussions with some of these companies, none found the application process to be particularly complex or onerous. As a result, Uber's motive in triggering the squabble remains unclear.

Currently, the U.S. lacks national rules on the deployment of self-driving vehicles though the Department of Transportation issued proposed guidelines in September that would establish a countrywide framework. For now, individual states set their own rules for robotic vehicles operating on public roadways.

Uber intends to be a leader in autonomous vehicle technology, and kicked off a test program in Pittsburgh in September that offers free rides to users in modified Ford Fusion sedans. The company also bought Otto this year, a maker of robotic truck technology that was co-founded by Anthony Levandowski, a former member of Google's self-driving car project. (The latter renamed itself Waymo and became a standalone business unit within Google parent Alphabet Inc. this month.)

Levandowski now leads Uber's self-driving technology team and argued that the company didn't need a California permit, as its self-driving cars weren't really self-driving. The DMV and the California Attorney General's office strongly disagreed with that view, and demanded that Uber stop the program until it received a permit.

“We’re now looking at where we can redeploy these cars, but remain 100 percent committed to California and will be redoubling our efforts to develop workable statewide rules,” the company said in a statement yesterday.

What Uber gained from its defiance isn't clear, and its short-lived San Francisco experiment did little to alter its reputation as a rule breaker.

Alan Ohnsman covers the intersection of technology, autos and mobility. Follow him on Twitter and LinkedIn.