Black Mirror's 'San Junipero': 2016's most life-affirming piece of television
Black Mirror's 'San Junipero': 2016's most life-affirming piece of television
There’s a reason people keep banging on about the Golden Age of TV. Just look at 2016: … the list of brilliant TV shows goes on. Many of the best - including the likes of , and - took viewers down dark, emotional roads. The latter show, for instance, saw numerous popular characters killed off. The former saw an animated horse’s continued existential crises hit a new low. offered another petrifying take on the political climate. One show many consider to have a doom-mongering, pessimistic view of life is , the Channel 4 show picked up by Netflix. Season three offered some of the darkest episodes yet: just look at “Shut Up and Dance”, centring on a young man being blackmailed into doing terrible tasks for a group of hackers, featuring a horrendous final twist. Among those six new episodes, though, lies ‘San Junipero', a somewhat enigma when it comes to the series. Instead of telling a morbid, freighting tale about a dystopian future, creator - and the episode’s writer - Charlie Brooker decided to tell the wonderful love story of two women. Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016               Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016    House of Cards - Season Four - 4 March   Last time we were in Frank Underwood’s White House things weren’t looking to great for the President, his first Lady having just walked out on him. What will happen next in the critically acclaimed show is anyone’s guess.   Netflix     Daredevil - Season Two - 18 March   Back in Hell’s Kitchen things were seemingly getting better. Kingpin is in prison and the crime syndicates should have dispersed - for the meantime at least. Unfortunately for Matt Murdoch, there’s a new anti-hero in town: The Punisher.      Flaked - 11 March   According to Netflix, Flaked is set in the insular world of Venice, California. It follows the “serio-comic story of a self-appointed 'guru' who falls for the object of his best friend’s fascination. Soon the tangled web of half-truths and semi-b******* that underpins his all-important image and sobriety begins to unravel. Arnett plays Chip, a man doing his honest best to stay one step ahead of his own lies.   Netflix     Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt - Season Two - 15 April   Following the story of 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt on her journey through New York, season two is set to start right where the last left us. The Tina Fey created sitcom has already been renewed for a third season, so you know this one has to be good.      The Ranch - 1 April   A comedy starring Ashton Kutcher. Based on a failed semi-pro footballer who returns home to a Colorado ranch. It also has some of the producers from Two and a Half Men behind it, which just happens to be one of the most successful shows of all time.      Marseille - 5 May   Netflix’s first French language original is a tale of ‘power, corruption and redemption’. Sounding like it could very well be the next Narcos.      Grace and Frankie - Season Two - 6 May   The tale of a retired cosmetics mogul and a hippie art teacher living together was a hit across the world, especially in the US. Starring Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, the show has already been renewed for a third season.      Orange is the New Black - Season Four - 17 June   Another Netflix powerhouse, Orange is the New Black will see us returning to Litchfield Penitentiary. Prepare for more Piper, Alex and Red come June.      Stranger Things - 15 July   Eight-episode series starring Winona Ryder that follows a small community as they look for a young boy who has seemingly vanished. It all sounds quite scary.      The Get Down - August 12th   "Told through the lives and music of a ragtag crew of South Bronx teens, The Get Down is a mythic saga of the transformation of 1970s New York City.” Directed by Baz Luhrmann, this is sure to be as stylish as anything he’s done before.      The Crown - Spring   Starring Doctor Who actor Matt Smith, the period drama ”reveals the political rivalries and romance behind Queen Elizabeth II's reign and the events that shaped the 2nd half of the 20th century."      Luke Cage - Fall 2016   First appearing alongside Jessica Jones in her Netflix series, Luke Cage will pic up the pieces, seeing Cage come to terms with his super-strength and impenetrable skin. It is unknown whether Kathryn.      Narcos - Season 2 - Fall 2016   It’s back. The Netflix series hyped to match Breaking Bad was an astounding success around the world, apparently watched more than Game of Thrones. We’ll find out what happens to Pablo Escabar now he doesn’t have the protection of all his men.   Netflix Inc.     A Series of Unfortunate Events - Fall 2016   Netflix is set to revisit the much-loved children’s novel, putting Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf in a show that looks so much creepier than the 2004 film. Not much else is known - i.e. casting - but Lemony Snicket is on board as executive producer, so get excited.   In the episode, the wonderfully awkward Yorkie - played by Mackenzie Davis - falls helplessly in love with Kelly (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) while partying at the Californian beach resort San Junipero. This is no ordinary love story, though, as the pair mysteriously meet each other in different time periods over a number of weekends. How? Because San Junipero isn’t a real place: it’s a realistic virtual reality; a place the consciousness is uploaded to rather than physically visited. It transpires that Yorkie - despite appearing to be in her 20s in San Junipero - is actually an elderly, paralysed woman, living in an assisted living facility with only six months left. Kelly, meanwhile, is actually based in a separate retirement home, seeing out her days in San Junipero. Eventually, after overcoming some reticent feelings, the pair meet up in real life and marry so Kelly can formerly authorise Yorkie’s euthanasia, putting her out of her pain. Yorkie is then uploaded to San Junipero. Kelly, however, rejects Yorkie’s advances to also fully upload her consciousness to San Junipero once she dies because of a promise to her previous husband. After months of deliberating, and a worsening condition, Kelly decides to upload her consciousness to San Junipero, living out her days with Yorkie. Written down, it sounds like a semi-morbid tale of death. Yet, what transpires is a heartfelt tale of two women who decide, in spite of everything, to be together, their love overwhelming rational thinking. Is there really anything more life affirming than a love story where love reigns triumphant? Well, there’s one issue. As the episode finishes, there’s a lasting shot of the computer servers keeping Yorkie and Kelly’s consciousness ‘alive' - the ‘TCKR’ system. A reminder, that everything could be flicked off with the switch of a button/power outage. A haunting reminder to live every moment to the fullest. More about: Black Mirror Comments

There’s a reason people keep banging on about the Golden Age of TV. Just look at 2016: Atlanta, The People v OJ, Veep, The Night Of, Stranger Things, Westworld… the list of brilliant TV shows goes on.

Many of the best - including the likes of Bojack Horseman, House of Cards, and The Walking Dead - took viewers down dark, emotional roads. The latter show, for instance, saw numerous popular characters killed off. The former saw an animated horse’s continued existential crises hit a new low. House of Cards offered another petrifying take on the political climate.

One show many consider to have a doom-mongering, pessimistic view of life is Black Mirror, the Channel 4 show picked up by Netflix. Season three offered some of the darkest episodes yet: just look at “Shut Up and Dance”, centring on a young man being blackmailed into doing terrible tasks for a group of hackers, featuring a horrendous final twist.

Among those six new episodes, though, lies ‘San Junipero', a somewhat enigma when it comes to the series. Instead of telling a morbid, freighting tale about a dystopian future, creator - and the episode’s writer - Charlie Brooker decided to tell the wonderful love story of two women. **Spoilers ahead**

Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016







14 show all Netflix originals to look forward to in 2016

























1/14 House of Cards - Season Four - 4 March Last time we were in Frank Underwood’s White House things weren’t looking to great for the President, his first Lady having just walked out on him. What will happen next in the critically acclaimed show is anyone’s guess. Netflix

2/14 Daredevil - Season Two - 18 March Back in Hell’s Kitchen things were seemingly getting better. Kingpin is in prison and the crime syndicates should have dispersed - for the meantime at least. Unfortunately for Matt Murdoch, there’s a new anti-hero in town: The Punisher.

3/14 Flaked - 11 March According to Netflix, Flaked is set in the insular world of Venice, California. It follows the “serio-comic story of a self-appointed 'guru' who falls for the object of his best friend’s fascination. Soon the tangled web of half-truths and semi-b******* that underpins his all-important image and sobriety begins to unravel. Arnett plays Chip, a man doing his honest best to stay one step ahead of his own lies. Netflix

4/14 Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt - Season Two - 15 April Following the story of 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt on her journey through New York, season two is set to start right where the last left us. The Tina Fey created sitcom has already been renewed for a third season, so you know this one has to be good.

5/14 The Ranch - 1 April A comedy starring Ashton Kutcher. Based on a failed semi-pro footballer who returns home to a Colorado ranch. It also has some of the producers from Two and a Half Men behind it, which just happens to be one of the most successful shows of all time.

6/14 Marseille - 5 May Netflix’s first French language original is a tale of ‘power, corruption and redemption’. Sounding like it could very well be the next Narcos.

7/14 Grace and Frankie - Season Two - 6 May The tale of a retired cosmetics mogul and a hippie art teacher living together was a hit across the world, especially in the US. Starring Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, the show has already been renewed for a third season.

8/14 Orange is the New Black - Season Four - 17 June Another Netflix powerhouse, Orange is the New Black will see us returning to Litchfield Penitentiary. Prepare for more Piper, Alex and Red come June.

9/14 Stranger Things - 15 July Eight-episode series starring Winona Ryder that follows a small community as they look for a young boy who has seemingly vanished. It all sounds quite scary.

10/14 The Get Down - August 12th "Told through the lives and music of a ragtag crew of South Bronx teens, The Get Down is a mythic saga of the transformation of 1970s New York City.” Directed by Baz Luhrmann, this is sure to be as stylish as anything he’s done before.

11/14 The Crown - Spring Starring Doctor Who actor Matt Smith, the period drama ”reveals the political rivalries and romance behind Queen Elizabeth II's reign and the events that shaped the 2nd half of the 20th century."

12/14 Luke Cage - Fall 2016 First appearing alongside Jessica Jones in her Netflix series, Luke Cage will pic up the pieces, seeing Cage come to terms with his super-strength and impenetrable skin. It is unknown whether Kathryn.

13/14 Narcos - Season 2 - Fall 2016 It’s back. The Netflix series hyped to match Breaking Bad was an astounding success around the world, apparently watched more than Game of Thrones. We’ll find out what happens to Pablo Escabar now he doesn’t have the protection of all his men. Netflix Inc.

14/14 A Series of Unfortunate Events - Fall 2016 Netflix is set to revisit the much-loved children’s novel, putting Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf in a show that looks so much creepier than the 2004 film. Not much else is known - i.e. casting - but Lemony Snicket is on board as executive producer, so get excited.

In the episode, the wonderfully awkward Yorkie - played by Mackenzie Davis - falls helplessly in love with Kelly (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) while partying at the Californian beach resort San Junipero. This is no ordinary love story, though, as the pair mysteriously meet each other in different time periods over a number of weekends. How? Because San Junipero isn’t a real place: it’s a realistic virtual reality; a place the consciousness is uploaded to rather than physically visited.

It transpires that Yorkie - despite appearing to be in her 20s in San Junipero - is actually an elderly, paralysed woman, living in an assisted living facility with only six months left. Kelly, meanwhile, is actually based in a separate retirement home, seeing out her days in San Junipero.

Eventually, after overcoming some reticent feelings, the pair meet up in real life and marry so Kelly can formerly authorise Yorkie’s euthanasia, putting her out of her pain. Yorkie is then uploaded to San Junipero. Kelly, however, rejects Yorkie’s advances to also fully upload her consciousness to San Junipero once she dies because of a promise to her previous husband. After months of deliberating, and a worsening condition, Kelly decides to upload her consciousness to San Junipero, living out her days with Yorkie.

Black Mirror Official Trailer - Season 3

Written down, it sounds like a semi-morbid tale of death. Yet, what transpires is a heartfelt tale of two women who decide, in spite of everything, to be together, their love overwhelming rational thinking. Is there really anything more life affirming than a love story where love reigns triumphant?

Well, there’s one issue. As the episode finishes, there’s a lasting shot of the computer servers keeping Yorkie and Kelly’s consciousness ‘alive' - the ‘TCKR’ system. A reminder, that everything could be flicked off with the switch of a button/power outage. A haunting reminder to live every moment to the fullest.