Caution: AI And Big Data Reaches Our Kids' Christmas Toys
Caution: AI And Big Data Reaches Our Kids' Christmas Toys
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bernard Marr       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Not to be a Grinch or a Scrooge, but you’d better watch out when it comes to some of this season’s hottest Christmas toys. Last year, I wrote about Mattel’s Hello Barbie , which responds realistically to your child by using natural language processing, machine learning and advanced analytics to parse what a child says and respond accordingly.  In order to do this, the toy has to record what the child says, send it to a cloud-based server, and receive instructions back. On Barbie, there’s a “listen” button the child has to press to start recording what she says in order to get a response. Mattel claims that only they and their tech partner (currently) have access to these recordings, but with the newest generation of talking toys, the audience is a bit larger. In fact, advocacy groups have filed a complaint with the FCC that some of this season’s hottest toys, including My Friend Cayla and the i-Que Intelligent Robot, are violating children’s privacy. That’s because these toys are constantly in listening mode — much like Siri and Alexa on our phones — and sending it to Nuance Communications, a speech recognition company that also contracts with the U.S. military and intelligence firms. The toys are automatically and continuously connected to the internet transmitting data about children, which could violate a number of laws, according to the complaint —  especially laws protecting children from online data collection. In addition to the privacy problems, the group also suggests that the toys may be a stealth marketing campaign for Disney products.  Among Cayla’s many pre-programmed responses are dozens of references to Disney movies and theme parks.  (As I pointed out in my previous article about Hello Barbie, the more the company knows about the child’s preferences, the more insidious the advertising could get.) Miraan Jawed, 5, plays with a 'i-Que' robot at Hamleys in London  (Photo by Rob Stothard/Getty Images) Even if the companies have no intention of any wrongdoing, parents should be cautious about these kinds of Internet-connected toys for another important reason: they can be hacked.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Not to be a Grinch or a Scrooge, but you’d better watch out when it comes to some of this season’s hottest Christmas toys.

Last year, I wrote about Mattel’s Hello Barbie, which responds realistically to your child by using natural language processing, machine learning and advanced analytics to parse what a child says and respond accordingly. In order to do this, the toy has to record what the child says, send it to a cloud-based server, and receive instructions back. On Barbie, there’s a “listen” button the child has to press to start recording what she says in order to get a response.

Mattel claims that only they and their tech partner (currently) have access to these recordings, but with the newest generation of talking toys, the audience is a bit larger.

In fact, advocacy groups have filed a complaint with the FCC that some of this season’s hottest toys, including My Friend Cayla and the i-Que Intelligent Robot, are violating children’s privacy.

That’s because these toys are constantly in listening mode — much like Siri and Alexa on our phones — and sending it to Nuance Communications, a speech recognition company that also contracts with the U.S. military and intelligence firms.

The toys are automatically and continuously connected to the internet transmitting data about children, which could violate a number of laws, according to the complaint — especially laws protecting children from online data collection.

In addition to the privacy problems, the group also suggests that the toys may be a stealth marketing campaign for Disney products. Among Cayla’s many pre-programmed responses are dozens of references to Disney movies and theme parks. (As I pointed out in my previous article about Hello Barbie, the more the company knows about the child’s preferences, the more insidious the advertising could get.)

Even if the companies have no intention of any wrongdoing, parents should be cautious about these kinds of Internet-connected toys for another important reason: they can be hacked.