24 Tweets You’ll Only Appreciate If You’re Slighty Obsessed With Being Petty
24 Tweets You'll Only Appreciate If You're Slighty Obsessed With Being Petty
My sister cropped me out of her profile picture with this caption 😤😤😤 A grown ass man is mad at his girlfriend at Olive Garden & has made a menu fort When your drawing teacher assigns 3 finals so you secretly write "you got me fucked up" in sign language on your fi… https://t.co/wMLsXLYA1y "you wore a wedding dress to my wedding, Das nice, Das wonderful, continue! Can't wait to give birth at your weddin… https://t.co/NyepFZFT90 I asked my wife if she was going to fix my plate. She walked out of the house laughing. Then she called me from her car to laugh some more. Lol my mom has fought with so many of her friends that this picture is just of her w/ a bunch of no headed ladies I told my mom I went out and she deadass made a meme of herself. Me: he apologized. I should just say okay & let it go. 

Other me: bring up that thing that pissed you off 3 weeks… https://t.co/7fm3AdSTGv How your girl wait for you to contact her after she block your number, move across the country, and go into witness… https://t.co/VlR869UMDD Just realised now that the number this babe gave to me is actually today's date.. 07027092016

I have suffered. I wanna reach this level of pettiness My sister and I had an argument and she chopped the bristles off of my toothbrush. Why??? Can I tell y'all a short story? My neighbor kicked her man out the house. Y'all... why did this man buy the house n… https://t.co/8PjftgJ1qX A bee is willing to end it's own life just to cause you a tiny amount of pain. I can relate to that level of pettiness. "you can't just cut people out of your life and act like you never knew them!"

Me: Blu: Daddy, this girl at school asked me if I know North West, who is North West?

Jay: North West is a direction b… https://t.co/pY6sSzsZsK my boyfriend asked me what i wanted to eat & i said i don't know & this what he brings me. 🙄 Joe Biden is the level of petty I aspire to be   This Picture Test Will Reveal How Your Mind Works    18 Wikipedia Pages That'll Make You Say "Fuck,...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.