Ridiculous Fox anchor to Teen Vogue writer: 'stick to the thigh-high boots'
Ridiculous Fox anchor to Teen Vogue writer: 'stick to the thigh-high boots'
It's shocking stuff, but it turns out young women can be interested in both fashion and politics. The concept seemed to bamboozle Fox News' Tucker Carlson Friday, but luckily, writer Lauren Duca was there to help. Duca was roundly praised for a recent article on the magazine's website entitled " Donald Trump Is Gaslighting America ." She appeared on Carlson's show ostensibly to discuss an incident where a man confronted the president-elect's daughter Ivanka Trump on a JetBlue flight, but mostly to school the TV anchor. SEE ALSO: Obama trumps Trump and permanently bans Arctic drilling ahead of inauguration While Duca said no one including Ivanka and her children should be forced to endure "confrontation" while flying, she also conveyed the complexity of the woman's position. "She's a powerful, powerful woman who is connected very closely to the president-elect. Not just as his daughter, but in many ways as a business confidante, an advisor," she said. It's equally inspiring & upsetting to watch @laurenduca work through this man's inane sexism. She's an inspiration. https://t.co/7sUzDSienG — Robyn Kanner (@robynkanner) December 24, 2016 Tucker, meanwhile, wanted to ignore all that. Trying to force Duca into a soundbite, he insisted Ivanka was just Trump's daughter. "It's sinister for a daughter to support her father's presidential campaign because you don't like her father?" he asked. "It's sinister for a daughter to capitalise on the power of feminism ... while supporting a candidate who is the most anti-woman candidate this country has seen in decades," Duca replied. Well, yep. Seemingly unable to process the subtlety of that position, Carlson insisted he was just trying to understand Duca while purposefully trying not to understand her — a situation that eventually prompted Duca to just put it out there. "You're actually being a partisan hack who is just attacking me and not even allowing me to speak." Really, as a Fox morning host who did plenty of goofy spots, Carlson's smugness loses him the exchange w @laurenduca  https://t.co/5jM3FAqk5W — Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) December 24, 2016 That's when Carlson decided to get more patronising. Smirking about her role at and work on celebrity and fashion as well as politics, Carlson pushed Duca off the show with the line, "you should stick to the thigh-high boots. You're better at that." When she responded that he was sexist, he cut her off air completely. Not very classy, but then, classy has never been his brand . It's very interesting that @TuckerCarlson started out accusing @laurenduca of being sexist then ended up shouting at her to stick to shoes. — Summer Brennan (@summerbrennan) December 24, 2016 (H/T ) BONUS: Gov. Jerry Brown says California will build its 'own damn satellite' under Trump

It's shocking stuff, but it turns out young women can be interested in both fashion and politics.

The concept seemed to bamboozle Fox News' Tucker Carlson Friday, but luckily, Teen Vogue writer Lauren Duca was there to help.

Duca was roundly praised for a recent article on the magazine's website entitled "Donald Trump Is Gaslighting America." She appeared on Carlson's show ostensibly to discuss an incident where a man confronted the president-elect's daughter Ivanka Trump on a JetBlue flight, but mostly to school the TV anchor.

SEE ALSO: Obama trumps Trump and permanently bans Arctic drilling ahead of inauguration

While Duca said no one including Ivanka and her children should be forced to endure "confrontation" while flying, she also conveyed the complexity of the woman's position.

"She's a powerful, powerful woman who is connected very closely to the president-elect. Not just as his daughter, but in many ways as a business confidante, an advisor," she said.

It's equally inspiring & upsetting to watch @laurenduca work through this man's inane sexism. She's an inspiration. https://t.co/7sUzDSienG — Robyn Kanner (@robynkanner) December 24, 2016

Tucker, meanwhile, wanted to ignore all that. Trying to force Duca into a soundbite, he insisted Ivanka was just Trump's daughter. "It's sinister for a daughter to support her father's presidential campaign because you don't like her father?" he asked.

"It's sinister for a daughter to capitalise on the power of feminism ... while supporting a candidate who is the most anti-woman candidate this country has seen in decades," Duca replied.

Well, yep. Seemingly unable to process the subtlety of that position, Carlson insisted he was just trying to understand Duca while purposefully trying not to understand her — a situation that eventually prompted Duca to just put it out there.

"You're actually being a partisan hack who is just attacking me and not even allowing me to speak."

Really, as a Fox morning host who did plenty of goofy spots, Carlson's smugness loses him the exchange w @laurenduca https://t.co/5jM3FAqk5W — Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) December 24, 2016

That's when Carlson decided to get more patronising.

Smirking about her role at Teen Vogue and work on celebrity and fashion as well as politics, Carlson pushed Duca off the show with the line, "you should stick to the thigh-high boots. You're better at that." When she responded that he was sexist, he cut her off air completely.

Not very classy, but then, classy has never been his brand.

It's very interesting that @TuckerCarlson started out accusing @laurenduca of being sexist then ended up shouting at her to stick to shoes. — Summer Brennan (@summerbrennan) December 24, 2016

(H/T Mediaite)