Israel ends aid programs, orders ambassadors home after UN Security Council condemnation of settlements



Israel ends aid programs, orders ambassadors home after UN Security Council condemnation of settlements

Posted

Israel's Prime Minister has taken diplomatic action against the countries that co-sponsored a UN Security Council resolution condemning Israeli settlement construction in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.

Key points Benjamin Netanyahu cancels aid to co-sponsors of Security Council resolution

Resolution condemns Israeli settlements in West Bank and East Jerusalem

Donald Trump promises 'things will be different' when he takes office

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office announced the steps a few hours after the United States broke with past practice and chose not to veto the measure.

The resolution was put forward at the 15-member council for a vote by New Zealand, Malaysia, Venezuela and Senegal a day after Egypt withdrew it under pressure from Israel and President-elect Donald Trump, who pushed for a veto.

The resolution demanded that Israel "immediately and completely cease all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem" and said the establishment of settlements by Israel had "no legal validity and constitutes a flagrant violation under international law".

Mr Netanyahu ordered Israel's ambassadors in New Zealand and Senegal to immediately return home for consultations.

He also instructed the Foreign Ministry to end all aid programs for Senegal and to cancel a planned visit to Israel by the Senegalese foreign minister.

Shortly after the measures were announced, Israel's UN ambassador called the Security Council's vote "a victory for terror".

Danny Danon told the council after the 14-0 vote the resolution was full of "lies" and will be added "to the long and shameful list of anti-Israel UN resolutions".

"By voting 'yes' in favour of this resolution, you have in fact voted 'no'. You voted 'no' to negotiations. You voted 'no' to progress, and a chance for better lives for Israelis and Palestinians. And you voted 'no' to the possibility of peace," he said.

New era for Israel's relations with US, UN?

Under the UN Charter, UN member states "agree to accept and carry out the decisions of the Security Council".

Mr Danon said the council was "sending a message to the Palestinians that they should continue on the path of terrorism and incitement".

"I have no doubt that the new US administration and the incoming UN secretary-general will usher in a new era in terms of the UN's relationship with Israel," he said.

Mr Danon urged incoming UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to make clear to the Palestinians the only way forward is "to end incitement and terror and to enter meaningful negotiations with Israel".

Mr Guterres takes office January 1, replacing incumbent Ban Ki-moon.

Mr Ban called the resolution a "significant step" to reconfirm the vision of a two-state solution with the Palestinians.

He said the vote demonstrated the Security Council's "much needed leadership and the international community's collective efforts" that are critical to demonstrate a two-state solution where Israel and the Palestinians live side by side in peace "is still achievable".

But Mr Netanyahu said, "at a time when the Security Council does nothing to stop the slaughter of half a million people in Syria, it disgracefully gangs up on the one true democracy in the Middle East, Israel, and calls the Western Wall 'occupied territory'".

The US abstention was seen as a parting shot at policy by US President Barack Obama, who has made settlements a major target of peace efforts that have ultimately failed.

Shortly after the vote Mr Trump tweeted "things will be different" with the UN after his inauguration.

Mr Trump is likely to be a more staunch supporter of Mr Netanyahu's right-wing policies. He named a hard-line pro-Israel ambassador and vowed to move the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

Palestinian UN ambassador Riyad Mansour said the resolution "is significant after years of paralysis" and a step toward addressing "a 70-year open wound" that has prevented peace and stability in the region.

The resolution demands an immediate halt to Israeli settlement building, and Mr Mansour said that will require "vigilant follow-up if it is to be meaningful, to stem further deterioration and salvage the two-state solution from relegation to history's archives".

He urged the council to "stand firm by this decision" and "not be cowed by negative threats or spin".

The Palestinians want an independent state in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem, areas Israel captured in a 1967 war.

Israel disputes that settlements are illegal and says their final status should be determined in talks on Palestinian statehood. The last round of US-led peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians collapsed in 2014.



Wires

Topics: world-politics, intergovernmental-organisations, unrest-conflict-and-war, israel, palestinian-territory-occupied