Pete Wentz and His D.I.Y.-Inspired Art Collection
Pete Wentz and His D.I.Y.-Inspired Art Collection
LOS ANGELES — Pete Wentz, the bassist for Fall Out Boy and an avid collector of contemporary art, adorns the walls of his Spanish-style home here with works that betray his roots as a graffiti-obsessed punk aspirant growing up in suburban Chicago. During my recent visit there, Mr. Wentz gamely played docent: the former street artist Shepard Fairey’s portrait of his wife (“right before the Obama poster ”); a watercolor by José Parl á , another former graffiti star and painter of the One World Trade Center mural ; a moody canvas by the pop provocateur Yayoi Kusama ; and refrigerator-size paintings by the artist and entrepreneur KAWS (Brian Donnelly) that subvert SpongeBob and the Smurfs. Lest anyone doubt Mr. Wentz’s punk bona fides, a photograph of the Sex Pistols signing a record contract in front of Buckingham Palace hangs above the mantel. Mr. Wentz, 37, lives with his girlfriend, Meagan Camper, and their 2-year-old son — he also has an 8-year-old son from a marriage with Ashlee Simpson. He pointed to a collage by Brian Belott in the dining room. “It drives my girlfriend a little bit crazy,” he said. “I want people to feel that. The worst thing for art, ever, is indifference.” Here are edited excerpts from the visit. I was really into graffiti when I grew up in Chicago. Growing up around vibrant art is great. And if you don’t have access to galleries, then you should create it. And that’s what this era of artists did: You could do this. That really informed me as a musician. Advertisement There’s art in everything that everyone does. Seventy percent of the art that I see is airport-hotel art. But then I realized that somebody out there poured their heart and soul into the design of a Holiday Inn Express. I can appreciate that. One time, this guy was like, “You have the best art — I love this piece.” And it was a life-size cardboard portrait that my 8-year-old had done. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy To have a SpongeBob stare into your soul every day is pretty amazing. I took my 8-year-old to [the Los Angeles County Museum of Art] yesterday, and on the way home he asked me, “Do have a SpongeBob piece?” And I’m like, “This is a strange conversation” — I mean, the one at home is pretty hard to miss. I got to meet him at the Pancake Epidemic , which is an artists’ collective on Wilshire above this pancake house. He was talking about how he was going to take over [the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles] and put in ice-cream sandwiches except the ice cream was going to have cat-food flavor — it was almost like watching a match when it first burns and it has no idea it’s going to burn out. I was kind of envious because it was pure creativity. His pieces are like “Smells Like Teen Spirit” is to hair metal: noisy and get-off-my-lawn. It could be pop music if it was played in a different way. His canvases have tears in them and imperfections as if they’re still being worked on — there’s something pretty awesome and punk rock about that. This piece in particular [with lovers’ initials scratched into the canvas like graffiti] played on the downtown Los Angeles arts district, what’s happening there now. This could be a really vapid place if you just focused on the celebrity culture. But the art culture here — especially the one that’s just below the surface — is so amazing. To me, it’s like if life is the mountain, art is the sherpa — it’s what gets you there. That’s what puts the gas in the engine for me. Otherwise, I don’t think I could live here. A version of this article appears in print on December 23, 2016, on Page C18 of the with the headline: A D.I.Y.-Inspired Art Collection.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. SHOW US YOUR WALL    SHOW US YOUR WALL

Mr. Wentz, 37, lives with his girlfriend, Meagan Camper, and their 2-year-old son — he also has an 8-year-old son from a marriage with Ashlee Simpson. He pointed to a collage by Brian Belott in the dining room. “It drives my girlfriend a little bit crazy,” he said. “I want people to feel that. The worst thing for art, ever, is indifference.”

Here are edited excerpts from the visit.

Many of the artists you collect share Fall Out Boy’s roots in the punk D.I.Y. aesthetic.

I was really into graffiti when I grew up in Chicago. Growing up around vibrant art is great. And if you don’t have access to galleries, then you should create it. And that’s what this era of artists did: You could do this. That really informed me as a musician.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And if you’re not an artist?

There’s art in everything that everyone does. Seventy percent of the art that I see is airport-hotel art. But then I realized that somebody out there poured their heart and soul into the design of a Holiday Inn Express. I can appreciate that. One time, this guy was like, “You have the best art — I love this piece.” And it was a life-size cardboard portrait that my 8-year-old had done.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

What’s it like living with a KAWS painting of SpongeBob?



To have a SpongeBob stare into your soul every day is pretty amazing. I took my 8-year-old to [the Los Angeles County Museum of Art] yesterday, and on the way home he asked me, “Do we have a SpongeBob piece?” And I’m like, “This is a strange conversation” — I mean, the one at home is pretty hard to miss.

How did you discover Brian Belott, one of the favorites in your collection?

I got to meet him at the Pancake Epidemic, which is an artists’ collective on Wilshire above this pancake house. He was talking about how he was going to take over [the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles] and put in ice-cream sandwiches except the ice cream was going to have cat-food flavor — it was almost like watching a match when it first burns and it has no idea it’s going to burn out. I was kind of envious because it was pure creativity. His pieces are like “Smells Like Teen Spirit” is to hair metal: noisy and get-off-my-lawn. It could be pop music if it was played in a different way.