Incredible images show uncontacted Amazonian tribe
Incredible images show uncontacted Amazonian tribe


The outside world may change at a dizzying speed, but these people live largely as they have done for 20,000 years.

Extraordinary photographs taken from a helicopter flying over the Amazonian jungle show members of one of the world’s last ‘uncontacted’ tribespeople.

The Indians exist in isolated nomadic groups in the depths of the Brazilian rainforest near the Peruvian border.

Hiding among the trees: Photographer Ricardo Stuckert captured the pictures of the Amazonian tribe who had previously been uncontactable

Ready to shoot: Mr Stuckert spotted them as he took a helicopter flight that was diverted and ended up travelling over the Amazon

When the helicopter first appeared low overhead earlier this month, they were panic-stricken — fleeing from their thatched shelters in a clearing to hide under the foliage.

Then the men took courage and fired volleys of primitive arrows at the noisy interloper.

The meeting of shy Neolithic man and his inquisitive 21st-century counterpart was pure chance.

Photographer Ricardo Stuckert was on his way to meet another tribe — which already has contact with modern man — in the north-western state of Acre.

But a thunderstorm forced his helicopter to divert — and he spotted these Indians. A second fly-past yielded more images.

Fear: One picture shows a man attempting to string what appears to be a bow and trying to fire the weapon at the helicopter

Confusion: In all of the the pictures, the tribespeople can be seen looking baffled as the helicopter soars overhead having been kept away from modern life

It is thought the men are from the same unnamed tribe observed from the air in 2008 and 2010.

They are believed to have moved on a number of occasions since then.

‘To think that in the 21st century, there are still people who have no contact with civilisation, living like their ancestors did 20,000 years ago — it’s a powerful emotion,’ Stuckert told National Geographic magazine.

‘They seemed more inquisitive than fearful. There was a mutual curiosity, on their part and mine. I felt like I was a painter in the last century.’

The pictures show the tribesmen wearing very little save bright red body paint — which he assumed is camouflage. A colourful macaw parrot can be seen perched on a roof.

Remote: The Amazon rainforest on the Brazilian border of Peru, Bolivia and Colombia is thought to be home to around 100 tribes who live in isolation from the modern world

Isolated; Although Brazil enforces a 'no contact' policy towards the indigenous tribes, they are often threatened by encroachment from illegal loggers

‘We had always believed they all cut their hair in the same way,’ said José Carlos Meirelles, an official from Brazil’s indigenous affairs agency — who was accompanying the photographer.

‘But that’s not true. You can see they have many different styles. Some look very punk.’

No one knows what language they speak. But they appear healthy. Corn, manioc (a starchy tuber) and bananas were seen being grown in the clearing.

Mr Meirelles believes this particular settlement is capable of sustaining as many as 100 people. The extended local population could number as many as 300.