21 times Adele slayed beyond all expectations in 2016
21 times Adele slayed beyond all expectations in 2016
LONDON — There are some people who have point-blank refused to let the ongoing misery of 2016 get them down. These people have battled on despite the tide of bad news, helping make the year that little bit less horrible for the rest of us. Adele definitely falls into this category. SEE ALSO: 27 times J.K. Rowling was the hero we all needed in 2016 From the moment she nailed Carpool Karaoke back in January to the moment she nailed, well, pretty much every minute of her tour, Adele has been a shining ray of awesomeness in 2016. Let us recap the moments. 1. Her record-breaking episode of Carpool Karaoke. Adele got the year off to a strong start with her hilarious, record-breaking Carpool Karaoke episode ; not only did she sing brilliantly and give an on-point rendition of the Spice Girl's hit song "Wannabe" (which Victoria Beckham herself approved of ), but she also did what Adele does best: just being generally lovable and funny. 2. The time she teamed up with Ellen to pull off this brilliant prank. If Adele ever gets fed up with the whole singing thing, she could definitely find work as an actor. Or a spy. During an appearance on , the singer pranked Jamba Juice employees by going undercover and carrying out increasingly odd requests that were relayed directly to her from Ellen, via earpiece. 3. Her reaction to seeing Lana Del Rey at the Brit Awards. That moment when Adele saw Lana Del Rey on the red carpet of the #BRITs this Wednesday night in London, UK pic.twitter.com/6AA7rJ3Wg8 — Lana Del Rey World (@LanaDelReyWorld) February 24, 2016 Adele may be a major celebrity, but that doesn't stop her from fangirling over other celebrities . 4. And her reaction to winning pretty much everything and getting a special congratulatory message from astronaut Tim Peake. After Adele cleaned up at the Brit Awards, she gave a moving (and, as always, amusing) speech . 5. The time she pulled two Irish fans up on stage to sing a medley of her songs. Adele may perform her songs solo, but that doesn't mean she's adverse to sharing the stage every now and then. After two Irish fans went viral with their cover of her songs, she pulled them up on stage in Dublin and gave them the chance to perform live . 6. And the time she brought this young fan up on stage for a duet. After spotting a little girl in the crowd who had a banner that read "It's my dream to sing with Adele", the singer decided to make it happen . 7. The time she shut down the people putting pressure on mothers to breastfeed. In between songs at her gig in London, Adele responded to a question from the audience about breastfeeding . She didn't beat around the bush with her reply. "You know what, the pressure on us is fucking ridiculous, and all those putting pressure on us, you can go fuck yourselves," she said (jump to 0:50 in the video above). 8. The time she posed for a selfie with a fan who kept getting mistaken for her. #AdeleLive2016  #AdeleBirmingham people won't stop saying that my Fiancé 💍 looks like @Adele  pic.twitter.com/WSqZ6newuu — AllThingsTom (@TomWinkler06) March 29, 2016 If you tag Adele on Twitter before heading to one of her concerts, be prepared for the singer to take notice. After Emily Bansworth's fiancé shared the above picture and tagged Adele in his tweet, the singer tracked her down for a doppelgänger-style selfie (okay, so they're definitely not doppelgängers, but there's undoubtedly a slight resemblance there). @Adele made my fiancés day, month, year! Thank you for the massive amount of brownie points! pic.twitter.com/hTTMN5r3rY — AllThingsTom (@TomWinkler06) March 29, 2016 9. The time she praised Beyoncé in the most brilliantly Adele way. Adele calls Beyonce 'Jesus Christ' during a live show 👀 pic.twitter.com/DaJv8kuJoQ — WORLDSTARHIPHOP (@WORLDSTAR) May 4, 2016 Adele has an awesome way with words. During the concert filmed in the clip above she gave an awesomely sweary shoutout to Beyoncé . "How is it even possible that she only ever gets better?" said Adele. "How is that possible? She is Jesus Fucking Christ." 10. The time she forgot her lyrics and styled it out like a pro. Adele forgot the lyrics to her song and this was her reaction. 😂 pic.twitter.com/n1EyHwXM56 — Pop Crave (@PopCrave) May 25, 2016 This is why Adele's so brilliant; while plenty of singers would (understandably) have stumbled if they happened to forget their lyrics on a stage in front of thousands and thousands of fans, Adele handled it like a total boss . 11. When she invited a random fan onstage, realised she'd met them before, and totally flipped out. The girl Adele picks from the audience turns out to be the daughter of her cello player. She loses it and shouts out: "OMG I knew you from when you were a baby!" #adele #amsterdam #baby #ziggodome A video posted by Atze De Vrieze (@atzedevrieze) on Another reason Adele is so damn popular is that she always comes across as entirely genuine — whether she's shouting her love of Beyoncé from the rooftops or reacting with shock after realising she knows the random little girl she's just invited up on stage . 12. The time she busted out another Spice Girls rendition, and got cheered on by the Spice Girls themselves. Adele having a Spice Girls moment on stage @EmmaBunton  @OfficialMelB  @victoriabeckham  @MelanieCmusic  @GeriHalliwell  pic.twitter.com/gTBH2JNxdy — Spice Girls (@SpiceGirlsPR) June 4, 2016 Even at her most casual, Adele can still slay. The Spice Girls clearly approved , too. 😍😍😍 RT @AdeleNowuk : Adele having a Spice Girls moment. #AdeleLive2016  pic.twitter.com/kVb4MSwVeD — Melanie C (@MelanieCmusic) June 4, 2016 Go @Adele  https://t.co/9srEXXjdgL — Geri Horner (@GeriHalliwell) June 4, 2016 13. The time she told a critic to 'suck my dick.' Don't mess with Adele — she will strike back , live on stage, in gloriously Adele fashion. 14. When she brought an Adele impersonator up on stage. During a gig in Seattle, Adele made celebrity impersonator Kristie Champagne's day with an on-stage shout out. Fan participation is another theme of Adele's concerts — we don't have the stats, but there can't be many other singers who spend as much one-on-one time with their audience as she does. 15. The time she proved just how much she cares about her fans with this apology video. pic.twitter.com/sPdEIYSbUt — Adele (@Adele) August 17, 2016 When she was too sick to make a gig in Phoenix, Arizona, Adele still went to the trouble of posting an apology message on social media . "I will reschedule this show, I promise you," she said. "And I will come back and I will smash it for you." 16. The time she kissed a dog wearing an Adele top. Adele makes time for all her fans — even the hairy, four-legged variety . 17. The time she made her feelings about the Brangelina split abundantly clear. During show tonight @Adele says she was joking during her last show and doesn't care #brangelina broke up pic.twitter.com/YOdKCkLoow — Ben Bell (@BenjaminBell) September 23, 2016 Another classic example of Adele speaking her mind came after a number media outlets reported that she was heartbroken over the Brangelina split. Adele addressed the crowd during a concert in New York to put the record straight: "I couldn't give a fucking shit," she said. 18. Her supremely on-point Halloween costume. Halloween 2016 / Dallas, TX A photo posted by @adele on This is how you do fancy dress. Jim Carrey even approved . Halloween 2016 / Dallas, TX A photo posted by @adele on 19. When she absolutely nailed the Mannequin Challenge. Mannequin challenge pic.twitter.com/4oZ5dmdsMN — Adele (@Adele) November 8, 2016 Adele's version of the Mannequin Challenge was sweet, sepia-infused perfection. 20. Her reaction to a bat on stage. When a bat welcomes you to a new country @Adele  #adelemexico  pic.twitter.com/YvCZ7ImDTb — H Ramos (@Hect) November 16, 2016 "Oh my God! There's a fucking bat!" — classic Adele . 21. Finally, the message she posted at the end of her tour. I just finished my 107 shows in 10 months. 100% live every night. I bloody smashed it, even if I do say so myself. You lot have been incredible, every night you've been so beautiful, loving and engaged. My band and my crew you made the whole thing turn. And my beautiful family made it easy for me to do. Big love x A photo posted by @adele on 107 shows in 10 months, and she still managed to keep up her sense of humour, and her general awesomeness, for the whole run. Never stop slaying, Adele. BONUS: Adorable parade of Santa penguins is the best gift you'll get this holiday

LONDON — There are some people who have point-blank refused to let the ongoing misery of 2016 get them down.

These people have battled on despite the tide of bad news, helping make the year that little bit less horrible for the rest of us.

Adele definitely falls into this category.

From the moment she nailed Carpool Karaoke back in January to the moment she nailed, well, pretty much every minute of her tour, Adele has been a shining ray of awesomeness in 2016. Let us recap the moments.

1. Her record-breaking episode of Carpool Karaoke.

Adele got the year off to a strong start with her hilarious, record-breaking Carpool Karaoke episode; not only did she sing brilliantly and give an on-point rendition of the Spice Girl's hit song "Wannabe" (which Victoria Beckham herself approved of), but she also did what Adele does best: just being generally lovable and funny.

2. The time she teamed up with Ellen to pull off this brilliant prank.

If Adele ever gets fed up with the whole singing thing, she could definitely find work as an actor. Or a spy.

During an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, the singer pranked Jamba Juice employees by going undercover and carrying out increasingly odd requests that were relayed directly to her from Ellen, via earpiece.

3. Her reaction to seeing Lana Del Rey at the Brit Awards.

That moment when Adele saw Lana Del Rey on the red carpet of the #BRITs this Wednesday night in London, UK pic.twitter.com/6AA7rJ3Wg8 — Lana Del Rey World (@LanaDelReyWorld) February 24, 2016

Adele may be a major celebrity, but that doesn't stop her from fangirling over other celebrities.

4. And her reaction to winning pretty much everything and getting a special congratulatory message from astronaut Tim Peake.

After Adele cleaned up at the Brit Awards, she gave a moving (and, as always, amusing) speech.

5. The time she pulled two Irish fans up on stage to sing a medley of her songs.

Adele may perform her songs solo, but that doesn't mean she's adverse to sharing the stage every now and then.

After two Irish fans went viral with their cover of her songs, she pulled them up on stage in Dublin and gave them the chance to perform live.

6. And the time she brought this young fan up on stage for a duet.

After spotting a little girl in the crowd who had a banner that read "It's my dream to sing with Adele", the singer decided to make it happen.

7. The time she shut down the people putting pressure on mothers to breastfeed.

In between songs at her gig in London, Adele responded to a question from the audience about breastfeeding. She didn't beat around the bush with her reply.

"You know what, the pressure on us is fucking ridiculous, and all those putting pressure on us, you can go fuck yourselves," she said (jump to 0:50 in the video above).

8. The time she posed for a selfie with a fan who kept getting mistaken for her.

If you tag Adele on Twitter before heading to one of her concerts, be prepared for the singer to take notice. After Emily Bansworth's fiancé shared the above picture and tagged Adele in his tweet, the singer tracked her down for a doppelgänger-style selfie (okay, so they're definitely not doppelgängers, but there's undoubtedly a slight resemblance there).

@Adele made my fiancés day, month, year! Thank you for the massive amount of brownie points! pic.twitter.com/hTTMN5r3rY — AllThingsTom (@TomWinkler06) March 29, 2016

9. The time she praised Beyoncé in the most brilliantly Adele way.

Adele calls Beyonce 'Jesus Christ' during a live show 👀 pic.twitter.com/DaJv8kuJoQ — WORLDSTARHIPHOP (@WORLDSTAR) May 4, 2016

Adele has an awesome way with words. During the concert filmed in the clip above she gave an awesomely sweary shoutout to Beyoncé.

"How is it even possible that she only ever gets better?" said Adele. "How is that possible? She is Jesus Fucking Christ."

10. The time she forgot her lyrics and styled it out like a pro.

Adele forgot the lyrics to her song and this was her reaction. 😂 pic.twitter.com/n1EyHwXM56 — Pop Crave (@PopCrave) May 25, 2016

This is why Adele's so brilliant; while plenty of singers would (understandably) have stumbled if they happened to forget their lyrics on a stage in front of thousands and thousands of fans, Adele handled it like a total boss.

11. When she invited a random fan onstage, realised she'd met them before, and totally flipped out.

The girl Adele picks from the audience turns out to be the daughter of her cello player. She loses it and shouts out: "OMG I knew you from when you were a baby!" #adele #amsterdam #baby #ziggodome A video posted by Atze De Vrieze (@atzedevrieze) on Jun 1, 2016 at 11:59am PDT

Another reason Adele is so damn popular is that she always comes across as entirely genuine — whether she's shouting her love of Beyoncé from the rooftops or reacting with shock after realising she knows the random little girl she's just invited up on stage.

12. The time she busted out another Spice Girls rendition, and got cheered on by the Spice Girls themselves.

Even at her most casual, Adele can still slay. The Spice Girls clearly approved, too.

13. The time she told a critic to 'suck my dick.'

Don't mess with Adele — she will strike back, live on stage, in gloriously Adele fashion.

14. When she brought an Adele impersonator up on stage.

During a gig in Seattle, Adele made celebrity impersonator Kristie Champagne's day with an on-stage shout out.

Fan participation is another theme of Adele's concerts — we don't have the stats, but there can't be many other singers who spend as much one-on-one time with their audience as she does.

15. The time she proved just how much she cares about her fans with this apology video.

When she was too sick to make a gig in Phoenix, Arizona, Adele still went to the trouble of posting an apology message on social media.

"I will reschedule this show, I promise you," she said. "And I will come back and I will smash it for you."

16. The time she kissed a dog wearing an Adele top.

Adele makes time for all her fans — even the hairy, four-legged variety.

17. The time she made her feelings about the Brangelina split abundantly clear.

During show tonight @Adele says she was joking during her last show and doesn't care #brangelina broke up pic.twitter.com/YOdKCkLoow — Ben Bell (@BenjaminBell) September 23, 2016

Another classic example of Adele speaking her mind came after a number media outlets reported that she was heartbroken over the Brangelina split.

Adele addressed the crowd during a concert in New York to put the record straight: "I couldn't give a fucking shit," she said.

18. Her supremely on-point Halloween costume.

Halloween 2016 / Dallas, TX A photo posted by @adele on Nov 1, 2016 at 4:02pm PDT

This is how you do fancy dress. Jim Carrey even approved.

Halloween 2016 / Dallas, TX A photo posted by @adele on Nov 1, 2016 at 4:03pm PDT

19. When she absolutely nailed the Mannequin Challenge.

Adele's version of the Mannequin Challenge was sweet, sepia-infused perfection.

20. Her reaction to a bat on stage.

When a bat welcomes you to a new country @Adele #adelemexico pic.twitter.com/YvCZ7ImDTb — H Ramos (@Hect) November 16, 2016

"Oh my God! There's a fucking bat!" — classic Adele.

21. Finally, the message she posted at the end of her tour.

107 shows in 10 months, and she still managed to keep up her sense of humour, and her general awesomeness, for the whole run.

Never stop slaying, Adele.