The Clean Person's Guide to a Messy Desk
The Clean Person's Guide to a Messy Desk
Are you a messy person who yearns for a cleaner desk? Or maybe you're a neat freak looking for ways to avoid contracting the disgusting germs of your less considerate co-workers. No matter your preferences, you probably have to sit near and around people with different cleanliness levels. It's not always pretty, but especially in open offices, it's reality. Jolie Kerr is here to help with your neuroses. Kerr is a cleaning expert and the host of the "Ask a Clean Person" podcast, and she joins this week's Game Plan to help Sam and Rebecca with their messy desks. Okay, just Rebecca's messy desk. Sam is a fellow clean person. Jolie shares her tips and tricks for any office dweller looking to live their cleanest, healthiest and best work lives. You spend more time at your job than anywhere else. Each week, Game Plan hosts Rebecca Greenfield and Sam Grobart take a close look at the way we live our lives at work—our frustrations, dilemmas, habits, and anything else that happens in the office.

Are you a messy person who yearns for a cleaner desk? Or maybe you're a neat freak looking for ways to avoid contracting the disgusting germs of your less considerate co-workers. No matter your preferences, you probably have to sit near and around people with different cleanliness levels. It's not always pretty, but especially in open offices, it's reality.

Jolie Kerr is here to help with your neuroses. Kerr is a cleaning expert and the host of the "Ask a Clean Person" podcast, and she joins this week's Game Plan to help Sam and Rebecca with their messy desks. Okay, just Rebecca's messy desk. Sam is a fellow clean person. Jolie shares her tips and tricks for any office dweller looking to live their cleanest, healthiest and best work lives.

You spend more time at your job than anywhere else. Each week, Game Plan hosts Rebecca Greenfield and Sam Grobart take a close look at the way we live our lives at work—our frustrations, dilemmas, habits, and anything else that happens in the office.