Sushma Swaraj Helps Hapless Couple Overseas As Norway Govt Takes Custody Of Their Child
Sushma Swaraj Helps Hapless Couple Overseas As Norway Govt Takes Custody Of Their Child
Sushma Swaraj Helps Hapless Couple Overseas As Norway Govt Takes Custody Of Their Child Sushma Swaraj is the perfect example of a politician who can resolve any issue within minutes. Over the years, she's not only been active, but is the epitome of good leadership and management as well. (Also read: Kidney Has No Religious Labels, Sushma Swaraj Tells Muslim Man Who Offered His Kidney To Her ) Recently, the news of an Indian family being harassed in Norway has been in the news. According to the family, they're being falsely accused of beating their only son. As a result, the Norway government has taken custody of their child. The child is five-years-old and the Child Welfare Department of Norway is taking care of him currently. This is when our External Affairs Minister, Sushma Swaraj, pitched in to help. I have asked Indian Ambassador in Norway to send me a report. https://t.co/666l9t91xD I have received the report. Father and son are Norwegian nationals. We will represent on request of the mother, who is an Indian national. https://t.co/zV6SIzpMpu @CNNnews18 I am watching your story about Aryan. I can imagine what the child must be going through. /1 I have asked our Ambassador in Norway to take this up at his level and keep me informed. /2 Let's hope that the family reunites as soon as possible. The mother claims that her son has been wearing the same clothes he wore to school the previous week. He suffers from asthma and needs proper care.

Sushma Swaraj is the perfect example of a politician who can resolve any issue within minutes. Over the years, she's not only been active, but is the epitome of good leadership and management as well.

(Also read: Kidney Has No Religious Labels, Sushma Swaraj Tells Muslim Man Who Offered His Kidney To Her)

Recently, the news of an Indian family being harassed in Norway has been in the news. According to the family, they're being falsely accused of beating their only son. As a result, the Norway government has taken custody of their child.

The child is five-years-old and the Child Welfare Department of Norway is taking care of him currently.

This is when our External Affairs Minister, Sushma Swaraj, pitched in to help.

I have asked Indian Ambassador in Norway to send me a report. https://t.co/666l9t91xD — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) December 22, 2016

Since the father has been living there for 26 years, he and his son are Norwegian nationals. However, the mother isn't.

I have received the report. Father and son are Norwegian nationals. We will represent on request of the mother, who is an Indian national. https://t.co/zV6SIzpMpu — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) December 23, 2016

Swaraj will be representing the mother and has taken the case forward with the Indian Embassy in Norway.

@CNNnews18 I am watching your story about Aryan. I can imagine what the child must be going through. /1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) December 23, 2016

I have asked our Ambassador in Norway to take this up at his level and keep me informed. /2 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) December 23, 2016

Let's hope that the family reunites as soon as possible. The mother claims that her son has been wearing the same clothes he wore to school the previous week. He suffers from asthma and needs proper care.

Read the full story here.