Why we lose our memories when we age - and what you can do to stop it
Why we lose our memories when we age - and what you can do to stop it


How is it that we are able to remember some events in great detail whereas other memories seem to fade away over time?

Our memory changes with age, so that we may have a memory slip on a trip to fetch something from the next room, but we’re still able to recall important events from history with great detail. But why?

One important aspect of memory formation and retention is the associations we build between the information we later try to remember and other details.

Scroll down for videos

Our memory changes with age, so that we may have a memory slip on a trip to fetch something from the next room, but we’re still able to recall important events from history. Studies have also shown that the structural integrity of the hippocampus declines with increased age

MEMORY BOOST The method more likely to help is to simply engage in more physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise. The research regarding the benefits of exercise not only to your physical health but also to your mental health and abilities is much more settled than that of brain training. This does not have to be strenuous exercise that involves running marathons. Something as simple as brisk walking, or anything that gets your heart pumping and causes you to break a sweat, shows strong benefits to your memory performance.

For example, when and where the event took place, who was there, or the feelings we felt at the time.

These details not only help us as clues to search our memory, but they also allow the mental time travel we all experience when we recall those detailed memories, so that it feels like we can relive an experience in our minds.

Scientists refer to this experience as recollection, and some distinguish it from familiarity, which refers to the general feeling that we have experienced something before, but are not quite able to put our finger on all of the details of the event.

For example, you see someone at the supermarket or on public transport who instantly seems very familiar, but you cannot recall who they are.

The experience of familiarity is very fast – you can quickly detect that you may know the person – but recollecting the details of who they are comes a bit more slowly (hopefully before they approach you).

This is an example of how the processes differ on a subjective, or what’s called a phenomenological, level.

Apart from the behavioural and phenomenological differences that make the familiarity versus recollection of a face seem distinct from each other, research has also indicated that different areas of the brain underlie the phenomena.

GRAB WEIGHTS A study in Australia has shown evidence that resistance weight training can boost brain function in seniors at increased risk of dementia. Researchers at the University of Sydney looked at the effects of the training on a group of 100 patients over 55 with mild cognitive impairment. A quarter of the patients were prescribed weight lifting sessions twice weekly for six months, working to at least 80 per cent of their peak strength. The team found that as the pensioners got stronger, their global cognition improved 'significantly' after the resistance training. What's more, the physical training was shown to be more beneficial than brain training alone, and lasted for a year after the training ended.

The hippocampus, within the medial temporal lobes of the brain, is strongly involved in forming the associations that help to give rise to recollection, whereas the nearby perirhinal and entorhinal cortices appear to be more important for familiarity.

Research has shown that the ability to retrieve details of an event and the phenomenological experience of recollection decline as people get older, whereas familiarity remains relatively the same regardless of age.

Studies have also shown that the structural integrity of the hippocampus declines with increased age, whereas the entorhinal cortex showed minimal changes in volume.

In other words, areas of the brain such as the hippocampus that are important for recollection tend to decline in volume, whereas the areas that support familiarity remain more intact as people get older.

Scientists also know that memory does not work as a flawless tape-recorder: it is often the case that we not only forget information, but also misremember it, even if we feel as if we recollect an experience vividly and accurately.

One popular suggested solution for boosting memory is to do as many crosswords and sudoku puzzles as possible. However, it has not been prove that brain training will ward off cognitive decline or dementia

That older adults are increasingly unable to retrieve specific details of an event means they could be more susceptible to experiencing false memory.

So what can be done to deter or reverse these changes in older age?

While there is no magical pill or super food that can protect us, research suggests a number of strategies that can help ameliorate some of the more difficult impacts of ageing on our memories.

One popular suggested solution is to do as many crosswords and sudoku puzzles as possible.

The method more likely to help is to simply engage in more physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise. Research has also indicated that areas of the brain such as the hippocampus which are important for memory show increases in volume as a result of aerobic exercise

It is a perfectly intuitive idea: if we think of the brain like a muscle, then we should exercise that muscle as much as possible to keep it sharp and fit.

Yet, so far there is scant evidence to support this belief.

At best, you can expect to get very good at doing crosswords and sudoku, but the transfer of those skills to other kinds of abilities that are further away, such as being better able to reason abstractly or remember more information, is less supported by research evidence.

BOOZE CAN BOOST MEMORY A daily pint of beer or glass of wine can ward off dementia, according to a new study. Researchers found pensioners who enjoy a daily drop of their favourite alcoholic beverage have better memories than teetotallers. The study showed those over 60 who drank sensibly were better at recalling events, and had more grey matter in the hippocampus, the area of the brain which controls memory Earlier animal experiments have found alcohol helps boost the number of nerve cells in this area of the brain which may account for the phenomenon. Scientists also believe exposing the brain to moderate amounts of alcohol may increase the release of chemicals involved with cognitive functions, or information processing. Researchers analysed data from patients across the U.S. who were part of the Framingham Heart Study Offspring Cohort. They underwent medical examinations - including brain scans and blood tests - for risk of Alzheimer's disease, and were also asked about their drinking habits. A series of mental tests then showed while responsible drinkers had better 'episodic memory' - the ability to remember specific events - there was no evidence to suggest overall intelligence was improved by a regular glass of wine. Dr Brian Downer, of the University of Texas, said: 'There were no significant differences in cognitive functioning and regional brain volumes during late life according to reported midlife alcohol consumption status. 'This may be due to the fact that adults who are able to continue consuming alcohol into old age are healthier, and therefore have higher cognition and larger regional brain volumes, than people who had to decrease their alcohol consumption due to unfavourable health outcomes.'

So, you should certainly keep doing crosswords if you enjoy doing them, but do not believe or buy into the hype that such brain training will ward off cognitive decline or dementia.

The method more likely to help is to simply engage in more physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise.

The research regarding the benefits of exercise not only to your physical health but also to your mental health and abilities is much more settled than that of brain training.

This does not have to be strenuous exercise that involves running marathons.

Something as simple as brisk walking, or anything that gets your heart pumping and causes you to break a sweat, shows strong benefits to your memory performance.

FISH OIL CAN BOOST MEMORY Older people with memory problems can boost their brainpower with fish oil supplements, say researchers. Healthy people with mild memory deficits of events in their past life, so-called episodic memory, had improved recall after six months of treatment. A new overview says the omega-3 fatty acid DHA has most benefit for people with existing memory problems, particularly when they are coping with physical or mental stress. Experts believe supplements rich in DHA from fish oils or other marine sources might slow or prevent mental decline as it is found in reduced amounts in people with Alzheimer’s disease. But here have been conflicting results from studies, with some showing no benefit from supplements in dementia patients. DHA is an omega-3 fatty acid that is thought to help nerve cells communicate with each other. The richest source of the nutrient is oily fish, such as herring, mackerel and sardines. Britons are currently advised to eat at least one portion of oily fish a week but figures show just one in three do so.

Research has also indicated that areas of the brain such as the hippocampus which are important for memory show increases in volume as a result of aerobic exercise.