Pentatonix Get Into the Christmas Spirit in 'O Come, All Ye Faithful' Video: Watch
Pentatonix Get Into the Christmas Spirit in 'O Come, All Ye Faithful' Video: Watch 
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Pentatonix Get Into the Christmas Spirit in 'O Come, All Ye Faithful' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Pentatonix are having a standout holiday season with the success of , which reached No. 2 on the Billboard 200 and has been certified platinum. While the a cappella pop group's rendition of "Hallelujah" continues to gain the most attention -- the video has more than 85 million views -- a new visual arrived today (Dec. 20) for the track "O Come, All Ye Faithful."  The video begins with the group's somewhat signature individual on-screen appearances, which highlight how each separate voice is vital to the entire arrangement. Though, towards the end, all five members are shown standing together in a church. Their already powerful vocals are further supported by a choir dressed in red gowns -- in the spirit of Christmas, of course. Watch below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Pentatonix are having a standout holiday season with the success of A Pentatonix Christmas, which reached No. 2 on the Billboard 200 and has been certified platinum. While the a cappella pop group's rendition of "Hallelujah" continues to gain the most attention -- the video has more than 85 million views -- a new visual arrived today (Dec. 20) for the track "O Come, All Ye Faithful."

The video begins with the group's somewhat signature individual on-screen appearances, which highlight how each separate voice is vital to the entire arrangement. Though, towards the end, all five members are shown standing together in a church. Their already powerful vocals are further supported by a choir dressed in red gowns -- in the spirit of Christmas, of course.

Watch below.