Little Girl Adorably Blames Elf on the Shelf After Getting Caught Playing With Lipstick
Little Girl Adorably Blames Elf on the Shelf After Getting Caught Playing With Lipstick
When all else fails, blame the elves. That was the lesson learned from a little girl who got into some trouble for playing with makeup. Originally, that’s not the excuse this adorable ginger went with. When her dad finds her with lipstick on and around her lips and cheek and on her really cute pajamas, he asks how the lipstick got on her face. She replies that it fell and landed on her face. Her dad cannot contain his laughter as he continues to ask questions, and she whines, “It just fell off.” As she clearly begins to get stressed, her dad gives her another out. “What was it, the elf?” he asks. “You covering for the elf?” She nods her head yes and explains, “The elf comed in and said, Do you want to do that? I said no, and he just dragged me.” Showing the mess she made on her sleeve, she continues throwing the elf under the … sleigh. “And she done it on the chair as well,” she admits. “She’s a naughty, naughty elf,” she says, shaking her finger. This is not the first time a fictional character took the blame for a child’s makeup mishap. A Scottish 2-year-old named Noel Hopkins scribbled lipstick all over his mom’s mirror and blamed it on … Batman. We’re not so sure about Batman, but keep an eye on your makeup this time of year — those pesky elves are everywhere.

When all else fails, blame the elves. That was the lesson learned from a little girl who got into some trouble for playing with makeup.

Originally, that’s not the excuse this adorable ginger went with. When her dad finds her with lipstick on and around her lips and cheek and on her really cute Frozen pajamas, he asks how the lipstick got on her face. She replies that it fell and landed on her face.

Her dad cannot contain his laughter as he continues to ask questions, and she whines, “It just fell off.” As she clearly begins to get stressed, her dad gives her another out. “What was it, the elf?” he asks. “You covering for the elf?” She nods her head yes and explains, “The elf comed in and said, Do you want to do that? I said no, and he just dragged me.” Showing the mess she made on her sleeve, she continues throwing the elf under the … sleigh.

“And she done it on the chair as well,” she admits. “She’s a naughty, naughty elf,” she says, shaking her finger.

This is not the first time a fictional character took the blame for a child’s makeup mishap. A Scottish 2-year-old named Noel Hopkins scribbled lipstick all over his mom’s mirror and blamed it on … Batman.

We’re not so sure about Batman, but keep an eye on your makeup this time of year — those pesky elves are everywhere.

Let’s keep in touch! Follow Yahoo Beauty on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest.



