Yemen girl relives the horrors of living in the country's 'forgotten conflict'
The nightmarish life of schoolgirl, 13, surviving war in Yemen


Amal is 13 years-old, a schoolgirl living a never ending nightmare of death, fear, destruction, horror and uncertainty.

In the past four months, the softly-spoken little girl has survived a missile attack on her school that killed a teacher and classmates, burying some alive.

She has been targeted by snipers, forced to flee through mine strewn booby-trapped streets and seen her uncle and cousin torn apart by shrapnel from a mortar that devastated their home in the besieged south-western Yemini city of Taiz.

Incredibly, Amal survived too when a market area was hit by missiles tearing apart potato and sweet sellers around her in one of the many indiscriminate attacks of Yemen's civil war that have led to allegations of civilians and their homes being targets.

Now she lives with the remains of her family in a freezing, dank, bare room more than 200 miles away in Yemen's capital Sana'a, watching her chronically ill mother fight for life while bombs and explosions from warplanes regularly strike the area around her.

Nightmares: Amal, pictured, 13, has survived missile and shelling attacks in her besieged home city of Taiz in Yemen, the scene of a brutal but 'forgotten' conflict

Rubble: She has been targeted by snipers and forced to flee through streets booby trapped with mines in Taiz, pictured, where rebels have waged war with the government since 2015

Family: The fighting in Taiz forced Amal to move 200 miles away to Yemen's capital Sana'a, where she lives with her father Ahmed, left, sick mother Fatima, right, and two siblings

As aid agencies warn of a humanitarian catastrophe and the Disasters Emergency Committee, which represents 13 British charities, launches an appeal that has so far topped £8million, her story provides a chilling insight into the horrors facing families in what has been called 'a forgotten' conflict.

One of the world's poorest countries, Yemen has been ravished by two years of brutal civil war between forces loyal to the internationally-recognised government of President Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi and those allied to the Houthi rebel movement.

Nearly 7,000 people have been killed and over 35,000 injured since March 2015, the majority in controversial air strikes by a Saudi-led multinational coalition backing the president and accused of using British and US weapons in the attacks.

Millions have been displaced, over three million children and pregnant or breast-feeding women are acutely malnourished, while 500,000 children face starvation.

Like other children, Amal speaks of a 'hell' where they regularly witness death and destruction, snipers shoot at civilians, fresh water supplies are deliberately poisoned, landmines explode under their feet and shells bombard residential districts.

Amal has taken on the role of caring for her family – father Ahmed, mother Fatima, brother Mushir, 11, and nine year-old sister Qamar – as they struggle with no money and few belongings to survive.

In the line of fire: Before fleeing Taiz, schoolgirl Amal saw her uncle and cousin torn apart by the shrapnel from a mortar shell that destroyed their home

Innocence lost: With her mother gravely ill, the young girl has taken on the role of caring for her parents - as well as brother Mushir, 11, and nine year-old sister Qamar - who are struggling with little money and next to no belongings

Under siege: Amal's story gives a chilling insight into the horrors of what has been called a 'forgotten' conflict in Yemen, where nearly 7,000 have been killed and over 35,000 injured in mostly Saudi-led airstrikes since March 2015

Hell: Amal, right with her father Ahmed, reveals the haunting reality of living in a war zone where fresh water supplies are deliberately poisoned and landmines explode people's feet

At night, she regularly comforts Qamar, who is haunted by images of her uncle being torn apart in front of her, his blood and brains exploding over the little girl.

'She wakes up in fear screaming,' Mushir says, 'She screams 'get away from me, you will kill me, you will kill my uncle'. We spray water on to her face.'

Tears roll down Amal's dirt-stained cheeks as she listens to her brother. Quietly she says: 'It is like a nightmare.'

This little girl and her family had to avoid snipers by crawling through the dark in the middle of the night, they then had to navigate a web of landmines pitting their streets Alice Klein, Save The Children

Alice Klein, of the British charity Save the Children, which is helping Yemen's children on the front lines, said: 'Amal's story is truly horrific.

'This little girl and her family had to avoid snipers by crawling through the dark in the middle of the night, they then had to navigate a web of landmines pitting their streets - terrified that they could get blown up at any moment.

'It's appalling that warring parties in Taiz are attacking families like Amal's and civilian spaces like homes, markets and schools. Nowhere is sacred and no one is safe.'

Klein, who has recently returned from Yemen and meeting Amal, continued: 'The situation in Yemen is horrendous, you have an active conflict which has pushed 3.2million people from their homes, schools and workplaces, you then have massively reduced ability to import food, fuel and medicines.

Struggle: At night, Amal regularly comforts her sister Qamar, left, who has been left traumatised by images of her uncle being torn apart in front of her - his blood and brains exploding over the little girl

Grief: Tears streamed down Amal's face as she listens to her brother Mushir describing their sister's almost nightly ordeal. 'She screams 'get away from me, you will kill me, you will kill my uncle',' he explains

War: For two years, Amal, her family and millions of others have suffered through a brutal civil war between forces loyal to the internationally-recognised government and those allied to the Houthi rebel movement. Pictured: The destruction wrought by an airstrike in Sana'a

Battle: Millions of Yemeni people have been displaced, over three million children and pregnant women are acutely malnourished, while 500,000 children face starvation. Pictured: Tribesmen loyal to the Houthi rebels chant anti-government slogans

'The result is widespread malnutrition and associated disease but Yemen is unable to cope - a chronic lack of qualified staff and medical supplies means the health system is in crisis.

'It has combined to make Yemen the largest humanitarian crisis in the world with 18.8 million people in need of help.'

Amal said she was in her classroom in a suburb of Taiz, Yemen's third largest city close to the Red Sea - and just three years ago named the country's cultural capital - when the missiles struck without warning in September. She does not know who fired them but recalls the panic and carnage.

I was so frightened…two girls were killed, one my teacher... A piece of shrapnel hit my teacher here [her head] and another cut my friend here [her neck] Amal

Sitting on a plastic chair as dusk fell on Sana'a, she describes the massive explosion, the dust, the screams of fear and pain and the collapsing building where seconds earlier she and her friends in the 4th grade had been learning.

'I screamed, I couldn't get out,' she said quietly, 'I was so frightened…two girls were killed, one my teacher.'

Amal points to her head as she continues : 'A piece of shrapnel hit my teacher here and another cut my friend here [she indicates her neck].'

The destruction was so great, she said, that no one was able to claw their way into debris to help rescue the terrified girls before a second missile struck.

'A lot of people died,' Amal recalled, 'I crawled and eventually found my brother and sister.

'I saw two teachers who were escaping and we followed them. There were snipers above the buildings. When they saw any child or anyone moving they just targeted them, they just shot them all.'

School attack: Amal was sitting in her classroom in a suburb of Taiz, pictured, Yemen's third largest city, when a missile struck without warning three years ago

Attacks: Panic and chaos erupted in the neighborhood as the titanic explosion, originating outside, rang through the hallways - drowning out the screams of her friends in the fourth grade. Pictured: A tank commanded by soldiers loyal to the Yemeni government

Mushir said that as he tried to escape, he hit his head falling amid the chaos down stairs and was bleeding from his wounds.

'I was waiting for someone to rescue me but no one came,' he said, adding that he was warned the area was pitted with munitions and landmines.'

More than 150 schools and 23 universities in Yemen have been hit by shells – one school in Taiz has been hit in 24 separate attacks.

I saw two teachers who were escaping and we followed them. There were snipers above the buildings. When they saw any child or anyone moving they just targeted them, they just shot them all

Days after her school was devastated, Amal had another narrow escape when a market area in the city where she regularly shopped was again hit by a series explosions.

'No one in the market survived,' she said weeping, 'They killed the potato sellers, the sweet sellers… they killed everyone.

'I crawled on the floor and when we began to walk we were warned not to step on mines… it would leave no trace of a person.'

But the family's ordeal was only to become worse, Amal revealed quietly.

'We were at home with my cousins,' she explained. 'We had all been outside in the garden enjoying the evening sun, eating popcorn. We often used to do it, the children would play while the adults talked.

Besieged: Days after her school was destroyed, Amal narrowly escaped when a market area in Taiz where she regularly shopped was again hit by another series explosions. Pictured: Amal and other Yemeni children playing in Sana'a

Haunted: In an attack which has irreparably scarred Amal's sister, a mortar shell hit their home while the whole family was in the garden enjoying the war weather. Her father said the explosion cut open his brother's head and ejected the brain onto his daughter Qamar's face

Enough: Several other cousins also died in the same attack and - after three such raids in just a few days – her father Ahmed, pictured, decided they must flee their home and city where they had lived their entire lives

'It was a chance to sit together at the end of the day, we could all catch up. Me and my cousins, we liked running competitions the best. Then a missile landed in the garden.'

Her father Ahmed, picked up the story. 'Qamar was with her uncle, he was giving her popcorn.

'His mother asked him to go inside the house to pray – and he said to her, 'just wait a second' – but he didn't even finish the sentence.

'A mortar hit the house. It hit his head and took out his brain. And it cut one child in half, and it cut another child here (he touches his stomach and chest).

'The brains of her uncle hit Qamar's face. Her uncle's brain and blood…Qamar was shocked and went pale. She couldn't move.'

Amal recalls watching her eight year-old cousin die.

'He was calling to my mother, 'Aunt, aunt.' My mother held him – she didn't know what was wrong with him.

'Then my mother saw many pieces of shrapnel in the back of his head,' she repeated slowly remembering : 'Many pieces of shrapnel.'

Several other cousins also died in the attack, she said, and so - after three attacks in just a few days – her father decided they must flee their home and city where they had lived all their life.

Desperate: With the family's savings exhausted, Amal's father has been forced to sell his daughter's jewellery to buy medicine for his wife who is ill with serious kidney and heart problems

Terror: 'My children are freezing here. It's very cold,' said Ahmed of their new, dank home in Sana'a. 'Airstrikes here happen every night. I have to stay up with my children all night so that they don't panic.'

Ahmed said : 'Two days after the missile landed, killing our family, I decided we had to leave because I have children and I was worried for their safety. I didn't want them to die.

'We had to crawl out of our house in the middle of the night, around 2am, on our hands and knees. We crawled through the area in silence. We were led by a man who knew where all the snipers and landmines were.

'I felt like we were dying, it was a nightmare. I didn't even believe we had escaped from Taiz.

Two days after the missile landed, killing our family, I decided we had to leave because I have children and I was worried for their safety. I didn't want them to die Amal's father Taiz

'We had an aunty who was blind but we couldn't take her with us, so we don't know what's happened to her. We don't know what's happened to anyone back there. We just know we have no more family there, they had all died.'

Amal, who said she 'loved' school – she wants to be a doctor - and her family are supported by Save the Children and she walks several days a week some six miles to a child friendly site they run.

The family's savings exhausted – Ahmed sold his daughter's jewellery and clothes to buy medicine for Fatima, who is seriously ill with kidney and heart problems –they say simply life is a matter of survival.

They have no access to a kitchen and can't afford fire wood so cook in the open in a pot heated by burning cardboard they find on the streets.

Ahmed said: 'My children are freezing here. It's very cold.

'Airstrikes here happen every night. I have to stay up with my children all night so that they don't panic - I ask my wife to hold one child – and I will hold the others.'

There is no chance, they say, to return to Taiz where Mwatana, an independent Yemeni human rights monitor, said it had found 'appalling, grave human rights violations' in the city, including 'killing, maiming, attacking medical staff and military recruitment of children.

Adding to the menace, Al Qaeda and Islamic State fighters have now joined the conflict creating 'no-go' areas and more brutality.

Klein said : 'Save the Children is responding by providing health and nutrition services across the country. We support hospitals and health centres but also send mobile medical teams to more remote areas.

Destruction: More than 150 schools and 23 universities in Yemen have been hit by shells, while one school in Taiz, pictured, has been hit in 24 separate attacks

'We are providing communities with clean water, baskets with essential foods and other items they may need.

'And we teach children to avoid land mines and not to pick them up as there are swathes of unexploded ordnance in Yemen which can kill children who pick it up thinking it's something shiny like a toy. We help children get back to school and rebuild damaged classrooms.

'The sooner the war ends, the sooner families can go home and children like Amal can go back to school and pursue their dreams and aspirations.'