Was 2016 good or bad? May and Johnson differ in Christmas messages

Political correspondent    Cabinet message discipline went awry on Saturday after Theresa May and Boris Johnson issued Christmas statements to the nation that came close to contradicting each other. The prime minister and her foreign secretary did not disagree on policy, or party politics or the intricacies of Brexit, but on something more basic: whether 2016 was a good year or a bad one. May went with an optimistic tone. “This year, the United Kingdom has had much to celebrate,” her message started. She went on to cite the Olympics and the Queen’s 90th birthday as national high points, but not the vote to leave the European Union . As a Brexit supporter , Johnson might be expected to remember 2016 more fondly. But his opening was quite different and, in a video message posted on Twitter, he began: “We come now to the end of 2016, and I know that lots of people will be looking back at some of the gloomy bits about this year.” He went on: “We’ve still got a terrible civil war going on in Syria, we are seeing terrorist outrages taking place in our European continent.” Have a great #Christmas and a happy 2017 pic.twitter.com/mBwzWw40oC Johnson, who delivered his message in front of a Christmas tree, assured viewers that British diplomats, armed forces and intelligences services were working to keep the country safe . The foreign secretary later segued to a more positive tone. “In case you’re feeling too downcast this Christmas, don’t forget that overall the people of this planet are living longer, they are living in better health, they’re better educated than ever before, particularly women, and I can tell you that global Britain is leading that effort. So, hope that cheers you up,” he said. “Have a great Christmas and a happy 2017.” May’s message was sent to journalists at 11am on Friday under embargo, for release at midnight. Johnson’s message was posted at Twitter just after 1pm. May used the annual prime ministerial Christmas message to say that she did not want Brexit to divide the country. “As we leave the European Union, we must seize an historic opportunity to forge a bold new role for ourselves in the world and to unite our country as we move forward into the future,” she said. Christmas was a time to “proudly celebrate the birth of Christ and the message of forgiveness, love and hope that he brings”, she added. “We also think of Christians in other parts of the world who face persecution this Christmas and re-affirm our determination to stand up for the freedom of people of all religions to practise their beliefs in peace and safety.” She ended her message with a tribute to those working over the holiday period. “Having grown up in a vicarage, I know how demanding it can be for those who have to work over the Christmas period,” she said. Jeremy Corbyn , the Labour leader, focused on homelessness in his Christmas message, saying: “In the sixth richest country in the world, no one should be on the streets in the first place. But Shelter say that 120,000 children will spend this Christmas without a home to call their own.” He said Labour values were the same as Christmas values. “It’s the goodwill and generosity of ordinary people, public service and charity workers who give tirelessly to help the most vulnerable and the lonely. They remind us of Christmas values: love for your neighbour, working together and hope – hope that things can be different. These are Labour values, my values and our values. They are values that remind us that together we can and will change our country for the better.” Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, posted a Christmas video on YouTube , filmed in a centre for refugee children in Paris. He said he was “not at all squeamish about patriotism” and wanted Britain to be a country that did the right thing for people fleeing persecution. Calling for the UK to be welcoming to refugees, Farron said people should imagine how they would expect other countries to help if Britain were a war-torn country and if Britons were fleeing abroad for their own safety. In her Christmas message, Nicola Sturgeon , Scotland’s first minister, also mentioned the plight of refugees. “Scotland has a proud reputation as a caring country and I want to thank everyone in the last year who has extended a warm welcome to those seeking refuge and comfort here,” she said. She urged people to consider those in need of help or company over Christmas. “I would encourage everyone to take the time to check on a friend or neighbour who is on their own. It’s important to spend some time over the next few weeks giving comfort, companionship and support to those who need it,” she said. Topics  Conservatives   Theresa May   Boris Johnson   Christmas   Jeremy Corbyn     Labour   Nicola Sturgeon   Tim Farron

Cabinet message discipline went awry on Saturday after Theresa May and Boris Johnson issued Christmas statements to the nation that came close to contradicting each other.

The prime minister and her foreign secretary did not disagree on policy, or party politics or the intricacies of Brexit, but on something more basic: whether 2016 was a good year or a bad one.

May went with an optimistic tone. “This year, the United Kingdom has had much to celebrate,” her message started. She went on to cite the Olympics and the Queen’s 90th birthday as national high points, but not the vote to leave the European Union.

As a Brexit supporter, Johnson might be expected to remember 2016 more fondly. But his opening was quite different and, in a video message posted on Twitter, he began: “We come now to the end of 2016, and I know that lots of people will be looking back at some of the gloomy bits about this year.”

He went on: “We’ve still got a terrible civil war going on in Syria, we are seeing terrorist outrages taking place in our European continent.”

Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) Have a great #Christmas and a happy 2017 pic.twitter.com/mBwzWw40oC

Johnson, who delivered his message in front of a Christmas tree, assured viewers that British diplomats, armed forces and intelligences services were working to keep the country safe.

The foreign secretary later segued to a more positive tone. “In case you’re feeling too downcast this Christmas, don’t forget that overall the people of this planet are living longer, they are living in better health, they’re better educated than ever before, particularly women, and I can tell you that global Britain is leading that effort. So, hope that cheers you up,” he said. “Have a great Christmas and a happy 2017.”

What a 2016 of a year. Never again | Peter Lewis Read more

May’s message was sent to journalists at 11am on Friday under embargo, for release at midnight. Johnson’s message was posted at Twitter just after 1pm.

May used the annual prime ministerial Christmas message to say that she did not want Brexit to divide the country. “As we leave the European Union, we must seize an historic opportunity to forge a bold new role for ourselves in the world and to unite our country as we move forward into the future,” she said.

Christmas was a time to “proudly celebrate the birth of Christ and the message of forgiveness, love and hope that he brings”, she added. “We also think of Christians in other parts of the world who face persecution this Christmas and re-affirm our determination to stand up for the freedom of people of all religions to practise their beliefs in peace and safety.”

She ended her message with a tribute to those working over the holiday period. “Having grown up in a vicarage, I know how demanding it can be for those who have to work over the Christmas period,” she said.

Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, focused on homelessness in his Christmas message, saying: “In the sixth richest country in the world, no one should be on the streets in the first place. But Shelter say that 120,000 children will spend this Christmas without a home to call their own.”

He said Labour values were the same as Christmas values. “It’s the goodwill and generosity of ordinary people, public service and charity workers who give tirelessly to help the most vulnerable and the lonely. They remind us of Christmas values: love for your neighbour, working together and hope – hope that things can be different. These are Labour values, my values and our values. They are values that remind us that together we can and will change our country for the better.”

Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, posted a Christmas video on YouTube, filmed in a centre for refugee children in Paris. He said he was “not at all squeamish about patriotism” and wanted Britain to be a country that did the right thing for people fleeing persecution.



Charity appeal raising over £1m sends powerful message of compassion | Katharine Viner Read more

Calling for the UK to be welcoming to refugees, Farron said people should imagine how they would expect other countries to help if Britain were a war-torn country and if Britons were fleeing abroad for their own safety.

In her Christmas message, Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, also mentioned the plight of refugees. “Scotland has a proud reputation as a caring country and I want to thank everyone in the last year who has extended a warm welcome to those seeking refuge and comfort here,” she said.

She urged people to consider those in need of help or company over Christmas. “I would encourage everyone to take the time to check on a friend or neighbour who is on their own. It’s important to spend some time over the next few weeks giving comfort, companionship and support to those who need it,” she said.