Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001): original Telegraph review - 'Amazing and transfixing'
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001): original Telegraph review - 'Amazing and transfixing'
Children's stories are best – and most childlike – when they are propelled by fear. That is why the most famous fairy tales involve death and the forbidden: children love the notion of children outwitting the exciting threats posed by the natural and supernatural order, and many a great tale, from Hansel and Gretel to Peter Pan to Harry Potter, involves children pulling together to defeat the threat of what they don't really understand. It can of course be very moving. There are few sadder moments in all of literature than Peter Pan at the end of Barrie's story, looking through the window at the Darling family embracing one another, a world from which "the boy at the window must forever be excluded". JK Rowling's round-spectacled mishmash of all the classic children's stories, is now perhaps the most famous British child-character of all time, leaving Christopher Robin, Billy Bunter, Bilbo Baggins and the Famous Five burbling in his wake. Potter may have lost his parents but he is a modern lad and he gains the world: for children everywhere he is now the acme of specialness, and yet, quite brilliantly, he retains his capacity for common fears and common wishes, and at the end of each magical year at school he returns to his cupboard beneath the stairs. arry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, the first in what will be a series of big movies, is every bit as enchanting as it ought to be. To watch it with a large group of children is to enjoy something of the magic that cinema was invented to capture and convey. The film is more than two hours long, yet it flashes past in delicious form, this minute frightening, that moment comic, this minute thunderous, magical and wizardly, that moment human and reeling with feeling. A beautiful mobilisation of youthful imaginings, Harry Potter the movie is an instant classic: for a whole generation its brilliance will seem central, a gleeful preponderance of wonder in a broken world. The tale of young Harry – the orphan who discovers that his parents were wizards and goes to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to develop his powers – is very familiar now and the challenge was to not insult the readers' sense of the scale and the depth and the engagingness of the magic. In these respects, above all others, the film is the opposite of a failure. The scenes at Hogwarts are amazing and transfixing; the castle seems to float in the air, and there are ghosts, a forbidden forest, a three-headed dog, giants, dragons, and some characters, such as Professor Snape (Alan Rickman at his most camp), who don't seem at all well-disposed to young Harry. We have become used to great technological advances in the cinema, to wisecracking insects and humans walking up walls, but the look of Harry Potter introduces a concept that has a new feel to it: we might call it naturalistic magic. Privet Drive is a row of semi-detached Barratt-type houses such as you'll see in any town in Britain, and the characters, however grotesque and fantastic, speak and look like people we know. A lot of the film's power has to do with the way the places, such as the school, and even the medieval-looking surroundings, are rendered fabulously familiar and everyday. he texture of the movie extends the naturalism of the books in terrific ways. The film seems to have visual layers, as ghouls walk ethereally through the frame, and the people in the wall-paintings walk and gesture. In the movie's great set-pieces, such as the Quidditch match, director Chris Columbus's camera itself seems to become a thing of the air, vaulting, dipping, slide-tackling, and generally making the airborne youth look as if they were born to fly. More than any magical film I can think of, Harry Potter takes you up there. At every turn it performs the feat of making the impossible look absolutely like the norm. The child actors in this production – Daniel Radcliffe as Harry, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as his friends Ron and Hermione – almost tremble and judder with excitement. Indeed, Harry Potter seems to be, in some lovely way, replete with the same enthusiasm it intends to engender in its audience, and in this way it reminded me of Star Wars. As Hagrid, the friendly Hogwarts giant who keeps an eye on Harry's welfare, Robbie Coltrane is perfect, more than perfect: he achieves the amazing feat of making an already large and unforgettable character more present in the mind. There are pockets of magic everywhere you look, and pockets of mystery too. I am sure that anyone who ever had a childhood - as opposed to a mini-adulthood - will love the confidence with which this film tries to present a clear and lively picture of good and evil, and the way it shows how the universe can be knowable, if only for a term, a day, an hour, or a glittering moment. Columbus has made a film with enough imaginative power and sheer entertainment value to outstrip and outlast all the cynicism that travels before it. Disgusting Coca-Cola sponsorship? Pah. Horrid merchandising exploitation of poor mothers? Ignore it. If the film was even a partial letdown I would trounce it - but no, Harry is a triumph, and it has the germ of true movie magic at its core, a germ of unadulterated innocence. And when the lights go down nothing else really matters.

JK Rowling's Harry Potter books were first turned into films in 2001, with Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, starring Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as the three leading characters. Here is the first Telegraph review from November 16, 2001.

Children's stories are best – and most childlike – when they are propelled by fear. That is why the most famous fairy tales involve death and the forbidden: children love the notion of children outwitting the exciting threats posed by the natural and supernatural order, and many a great tale, from Hansel and Gretel to Peter Pan to Harry Potter, involves children pulling together to defeat the threat of what they don't really understand.

It can of course be very moving. There are few sadder moments in all of literature than Peter Pan at the end of Barrie's story, looking through the window at the Darling family embracing one another, a world from which "the boy at the window must forever be excluded". Harry Potter, JK Rowling's round-spectacled mishmash of all the classic children's stories, is now perhaps the most famous British child-character of all time, leaving Christopher Robin, Billy Bunter, Bilbo Baggins and the Famous Five burbling in his wake.

Potter may have lost his parents but he is a modern lad and he gains the world: for children everywhere he is now the acme of specialness, and yet, quite brilliantly, he retains his capacity for common fears and common wishes, and at the end of each magical year at school he returns to his cupboard beneath the stairs.