A.J. Green of Cincinnati Bengals likely finished for season with hamstring injury
Sources: Green mad after Bengals shut down WR
Sources: Green mad after Bengals shut down WR Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related Best futures bets for Super Bowl LII With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Patriots' Brady: RB White deserves MVP truck Brady's jersey missing after Super Bowl LI Falcons' Ryan on loss: 'There are no words' Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE Accused McKnight shooter pleads innocent Pats' Kraft calls title 'unequivocally the sweetest' Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Behind the scenes of Super Bowl 51 Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Players recall how the biggest plays of Super Bowl LI went down Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Sports world reacts to Patriots' remarkable Super Bowl LI comeback New England tied for best ATS season ever With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback How the Patriots converted both two-point tries Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Adam Schefter and Randy Moss explain why the Bengals have decided to end A.J. Green's season as he recovers from a hamstring injury. (1:08) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Bengals wide receiver A.J. Green did not play Saturday night in Cincinnati's 12-10 loss to the Houston Texans , and a source told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter that Green is not expected to play in the regular-season finale as he recovers from a right hamstring injury. Sources told ESPN's Bob Holtzman on Saturday that Green, who had been optimistic all week he would play, was pulled from a team meeting and told he would sit out. The sources said Green was not happy with the team's decision, and he did not return to the meeting. The decision to have Green sit out Saturday was made by ownership, a source told Holtzman. Bengals spokesman Jack Brennan told ESPN that Bengals ownership, coach Marvin Lewis and the medical staff had a meeting Friday night in which they consulted with external experts on Green's injury and "fully discussed" the situation, analyzing it to a "higher degree than it had been before." It was determined that Green has not fully recovered from a partially torn tendon, and even though he has been able to run at practice and looks fine, the Bengals would run "an inordinate risk" of reinjury to play him in a game. Bengals quarterback Andy Dalton empathized with Green's frustration. "A.J.'s obviously the type of person that was going to do everything he could to get back for this team," Dalton said. "One thing he said from the beginning was 'regardless of the scenario, regardless of the position that we're in, I'm going to do everything I can to come back and play this year. And that's just the type of guy he is. That's the type of guy you want on your team, the type of teammate he is. And he did that, he felt like he was in position, and ownership made a decision. Would I love to have him out there? Absolutely. But the decision was made." Dalton said the team prepared as if Green was going to play. A Bengals source told Holtzman that they felt the "rug got pulled from under us." Green left Houston following the decision. "It's obviously a decision that they wanted to make, and things may have been planned a different way, but we were able to adjust, went out there, and had a chance to win this game," Dalton said. Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said Friday's decision to sit Green came after he underwent further testing and consulted with doctors. "They just thought the best thing for A.J. to have a full recovery is not to risk him this week," Lewis said. When asked why the decision wasn't made earlier in the week, Lewis said there were a lot of discussions throughout the week. "We had a lot of discussions ... and A.J. hoped to play," he said. "We ended up flying here and made the decision. He asked for an opportunity to go home." Green has not played since suffering a Grade 2 hamstring tear two snaps into the Bengals' Week 11 game against the Buffalo Bills . In addition to Saturday's game, sources said he will miss next week's regular-season finale against the Baltimore Ravens . The Bengals have a history of bringing injured players back slowly, a philosophy cultivated by owner Mike Brown. "Mike Brown doesn't want them to play next week; he wants them to play next year," Marvin Lewis told ESPN in December. "These guys are very lucky here. Sometimes they don't realize that. He's concerned with their health beyond their career. ... Most people aren't concerned about that." On Thursday, Green said there was never a thought to ending his season early. "I'm not the type of guy to try to just shut it down, just to bail on my team because we're not having the season we wanted to have," Green said Thursday. "That's like a cowardly move to me. If I'm healthy, I'm going to play. And I feel like I'm healthy." Green is 36 yards away from his sixth straight 1,000-yard season; he was voted to his sixth straight Pro Bowl this week. The receiver was having one of the best seasons of his career prior to the injury, and his 96.4 yards per game is a personal best. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Adam Schefter and Randy Moss explain why the Bengals have decided to end A.J. Green's season as he recovers from a hamstring injury. (1:08)

Bengals wide receiver A.J. Green did not play Saturday night in Cincinnati's 12-10 loss to the Houston Texans, and a source told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter that Green is not expected to play in the regular-season finale as he recovers from a right hamstring injury.

Sources told ESPN's Bob Holtzman on Saturday that Green, who had been optimistic all week he would play, was pulled from a team meeting and told he would sit out. The sources said Green was not happy with the team's decision, and he did not return to the meeting.

Editor's Picks No A.J. Green or Tyler Eifert dooms Bengals offense in loss to Texans With playmakers A.J. Green and Tyler Eifert sidelined, the Bengals' offense was kept out of the end zone for three quarters on Saturday night.

Bengals made right move by sitting A.J. Green, but decision came too late The Bengals correctly assessed that A.J. Green's risk of aggravating his hamstring injury was too high, but they should have ruled him out before taking him to Houston. 1 Related

The decision to have Green sit out Saturday was made by ownership, a source told Holtzman.

Bengals spokesman Jack Brennan told ESPN that Bengals ownership, coach Marvin Lewis and the medical staff had a meeting Friday night in which they consulted with external experts on Green's injury and "fully discussed" the situation, analyzing it to a "higher degree than it had been before."

It was determined that Green has not fully recovered from a partially torn tendon, and even though he has been able to run at practice and looks fine, the Bengals would run "an inordinate risk" of reinjury to play him in a game.

Bengals quarterback Andy Dalton empathized with Green's frustration.

"A.J.'s obviously the type of person that was going to do everything he could to get back for this team," Dalton said. "One thing he said from the beginning was 'regardless of the scenario, regardless of the position that we're in, I'm going to do everything I can to come back and play this year. And that's just the type of guy he is. That's the type of guy you want on your team, the type of teammate he is. And he did that, he felt like he was in position, and ownership made a decision. Would I love to have him out there? Absolutely. But the decision was made."

Dalton said the team prepared as if Green was going to play. A Bengals source told Holtzman that they felt the "rug got pulled from under us." Green left Houston following the decision.

"It's obviously a decision that they wanted to make, and things may have been planned a different way, but we were able to adjust, went out there, and had a chance to win this game," Dalton said.

Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said Friday's decision to sit Green came after he underwent further testing and consulted with doctors.

"They just thought the best thing for A.J. to have a full recovery is not to risk him this week," Lewis said.

A.J. Green missed Saturday night's game and also is unlikely to play in the Bengals' season finale. AP Photo/Gary Landers, File

When asked why the decision wasn't made earlier in the week, Lewis said there were a lot of discussions throughout the week.

"We had a lot of discussions ... and A.J. hoped to play," he said. "We ended up flying here and made the decision. He asked for an opportunity to go home."

Green has not played since suffering a Grade 2 hamstring tear two snaps into the Bengals' Week 11 game against the Buffalo Bills. In addition to Saturday's game, sources said he will miss next week's regular-season finale against the Baltimore Ravens.

The Bengals have a history of bringing injured players back slowly, a philosophy cultivated by owner Mike Brown.

"Mike Brown doesn't want them to play next week; he wants them to play next year," Marvin Lewis told ESPN in December. "These guys are very lucky here. Sometimes they don't realize that. He's concerned with their health beyond their career. ... Most people aren't concerned about that."

On Thursday, Green said there was never a thought to ending his season early.

"I'm not the type of guy to try to just shut it down, just to bail on my team because we're not having the season we wanted to have," Green said Thursday. "That's like a cowardly move to me. If I'm healthy, I'm going to play. And I feel like I'm healthy."

Green is 36 yards away from his sixth straight 1,000-yard season; he was voted to his sixth straight Pro Bowl this week. The receiver was having one of the best seasons of his career prior to the injury, and his 96.4 yards per game is a personal best.

ESPN's Katherine Terrell contributed to this report.