Mom Spends $2,000 on Nearly 300 Presents for Her Kids
Mom Spends $2,000 on Nearly 300 Presents for Her Kids
Two things Emma Tapping undeniably loves are Christmas and her family (although you might be able to throw holiday shopping into the mix). The 36-year-old British mother of three recently appeared on to defend her decision to spend about $2,000 on more than 300 gifts for her three children. Her husband will get a few surprises under the tree as well. Tapping appeared confident and bubbly during her interview, explaining that she had bought about 85 gifts for each of her two girls and about 30 for her son, and apparently she kept shopping after that, because recent media reports say she has now bought about 96 gifts for each of her kids. Last year, Tapping was accused of going too far after purchasing 86 gifts each for her children — Mia, 14; Ella, 10; and Tatum, who is still a toddler — and sharing pictures of the lavish display on Facebook . The post went viral, with Facebook friends advising Tapping to ignore the “jealous” people. Tapping has apparently taken their advice — this year, the presents are even more bountiful. She shared a photo of her extravagance on Facebook. Yes, there’s a tree under there. Tapping’s Christmas shopping has become so legendary that it’s being recorded as part of a documentary, . Most of the gifts are supplies her children need for school, Tapping said. She doesn’t use credit cards, and she starts purchasing the gifts, at discount prices, at the beginning of the year. In the documentary, it was revealed that her kids didn’t use all of the presents from last year. “There was a popcorn maker and a notepad that Ella hasn’t used,” Tapping says. “For them not to use two things out of all the things I bought them, that’s not so bad.” Her spending has triggered a debate on social media, with some saying the mom has gone too far. #XmasExcess these poor children won't appreciate anything. Bloody ridiculous! — NOL (@ncfc77) December 15, 2016 Of course they're happy, YOU SPOILT THEM WITH 300 GIFTS!!! ???? #xmasexcess — Christopher (@CMcLaughlin14) December 15, 2016 watching #XmasExcess and omg this is ridiculous???? to think some children get next to nothing and these families are buying 400 presents! https://t.co/fmlQR95aCD — jen♡ (@itsjenross_) December 15, 2016 Others defended her, saying it’s just for fun. @boss_mum Got her Kids 300 gifts for Christmas Wow!!! Thats gonna be 1 fun X Mas Morning, maybe I'll get a Gift ???? #300Presents  #EmmaTapping — kareemslick (@kareemslick) December 18, 2015 #emmatapping Good on her, I wouldn't do the same but they are her kids and I hope they have a brill Xmas ???? — Bindi Boo (@bindi130305) December 16, 2016 Tapping’s Christmas gift tradition is likely to continue, since she’s resolutely announced, “I wouldn’t let anybody tell me how to spend Christmas with my children.”

Two things Emma Tapping undeniably loves are Christmas and her family (although you might be able to throw holiday shopping into the mix). The 36-year-old British mother of three recently appeared on Inside Edition to defend her decision to spend about $2,000 on more than 300 gifts for her three children. Her husband will get a few surprises under the tree as well.

Tapping appeared confident and bubbly during her interview, explaining that she had bought about 85 gifts for each of her two girls and about 30 for her son, and apparently she kept shopping after that, because recent media reports say she has now bought about 96 gifts for each of her kids.

“The haters will hate but nothing and no one will change how I do Christmas,” Emma Tapping stated of her Christmas shopping in a Facebook post that showed her Christmas tree from last year. (Photos: Facebook/Emma Tapping ) More

Last year, Tapping was accused of going too far after purchasing 86 gifts each for her children — Mia, 14; Ella, 10; and Tatum, who is still a toddler — and sharing pictures of the lavish display on Facebook. The post went viral, with Facebook friends advising Tapping to ignore the “jealous” people.

Tapping has apparently taken their advice — this year, the presents are even more bountiful. She shared a photo of her extravagance on Facebook. Yes, there’s a tree under there.



Tapping’s Christmas shopping has become so legendary that it’s being recorded as part of a documentary, Xmas Excess: Parents Splash the Cash. Most of the gifts are supplies her children need for school, Tapping said. She doesn’t use credit cards, and she starts purchasing the gifts, at discount prices, at the beginning of the year.

In the documentary, it was revealed that her kids didn’t use all of the presents from last year.

“There was a popcorn maker and a notepad that Ella hasn’t used,” Tapping says. “For them not to use two things out of all the things I bought them, that’s not so bad.”

Her spending has triggered a debate on social media, with some saying the mom has gone too far.

#XmasExcess these poor children won't appreciate anything. Bloody ridiculous! — NOL (@ncfc77) December 15, 2016





Of course they're happy, YOU SPOILT THEM WITH 300 GIFTS!!! ???? #xmasexcess — Christopher (@CMcLaughlin14) December 15, 2016





watching #XmasExcess and omg this is ridiculous???? to think some children get next to nothing and these families are buying 400 presents! https://t.co/fmlQR95aCD — jen♡ (@itsjenross_) December 15, 2016





Others defended her, saying it’s just for fun.

@boss_mum Got her Kids 300 gifts for Christmas Wow!!! Thats gonna be 1 fun X Mas Morning, maybe I'll get a Gift ???? #300Presents #EmmaTapping — kareemslick (@kareemslick) December 18, 2015





#emmatapping Good on her, I wouldn't do the same but they are her kids and I hope they have a brill Xmas ???? — Bindi Boo (@bindi130305) December 16, 2016





Tapping’s Christmas gift tradition is likely to continue, since she’s resolutely announced, “I wouldn’t let anybody tell me how to spend Christmas with my children.”

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.