British royals Zara Tindall and husband Mike lose baby
Sad news for British royals: Queen's granddaughter Zara Tindall loses baby
News British royals Zara Tindall and husband Mike lose baby There's some sad news for the British royal family this Christmas Eve. Zara Tindall, Queen Elizabeth's granddaughter, was expecting a second child with her husband, Mike. BBC reports that the Tindalls have lost the baby, who would've been due this spring. More The Royals videos Duchess Kate is outrun by Prince William and Prince Harry in relay race You can now get married at Kensington Palace Duchess Kate meets Prince Harry’s girlfriend Meghan Markle Happy 35th birthday, Duchess Kate!   Buckingham Palace said it would not comment on the private matter, but a spokesperson confirmed the loss. "At this difficult time, we ask that everyone respects their privacy," the rep told BBC. Zara, an Olympic equestrian, and Mike, a former rugby player, have a two-year-old-daughter named Mia. She won hearts worldwide when she took part in a portrait taken with the queen in honor of the monarch's 90th birthday. The toddler is seen in the photo proudly clutching her great grandmother's handbag in both hands. The Queen surrounded by her two youngest grandchildren and her five great-grandchildren #Queenat90  pic.twitter.com/6iprDy0C3j   For those still struggling with the royal family tree: Zara is the daughter of Princess Anne, who also is known as Princess Royal. Mia is a great-grandchild of the 90-year-old Queen Elizabeth and her husband, Prince Phillip; the baby would have been their sixth. Sending tidings of comfort and peace to the family during this difficult time.

share tweet pin email

There's some sad news for the British royal family this Christmas Eve.

Zara Tindall, Queen Elizabeth's granddaughter, was expecting a second child with her husband, Mike. BBC reports that the Tindalls have lost the baby, who would've been due this spring.

Tim P. Whitby / Getty Images Mike Tindall, Zara Tindell and their daughter Mia pose for a photograph on Aug. 28 in Kingham, Oxfordshire.

RELATED: Queen's granddaughter Zara Tindall pregnant with second child

Buckingham Palace said it would not comment on the private matter, but a spokesperson confirmed the loss. "At this difficult time, we ask that everyone respects their privacy," the rep told BBC.

Zara, an Olympic equestrian, and Mike, a former rugby player, have a two-year-old-daughter named Mia. She won hearts worldwide when she took part in a portrait taken with the queen in honor of the monarch's 90th birthday. The toddler is seen in the photo proudly clutching her great grandmother's handbag in both hands.

The Queen surrounded by her two youngest grandchildren and her five great-grandchildren #Queenat90 pic.twitter.com/6iprDy0C3j — The Royal Family (@RoyalFamily) April 20, 2016

RELATED: Queen Elizabeth holds Princess Charlotte in new photos by Annie Leibovitz

For those still struggling with the royal family tree: Zara is the daughter of Princess Anne, who also is known as Princess Royal. Mia is a great-grandchild of the 90-year-old Queen Elizabeth and her husband, Prince Phillip; the baby would have been their sixth.

Sending tidings of comfort and peace to the family during this difficult time.