Police arrested this man because his Christmas lights were just too offensive
Police arrested this man because his Christmas lights were just too offensive
Steve McGawley decided to go for giggles over traditional festivity, when he decided to put up his Christmas lights. McGawley decided to go down the NSFW route when he set up his lights, by drawing a penis, a bell and the word 'END'. Police were called after a Blackpool man put up these Christmas lights https://t.co/XWGxSsMmi2  pic.twitter.com/R1GoC2ZUWJ  Christmas lights in Blackpool... pic.twitter.com/XUjkeHnYiv  The police were called (obviously), and initially McGawley refused to come out of his Blackpool home... Because he didn’t have any clothes on. Later, he met them face-to-face. The police instructed him to take the sign down, but he insisted that it was “festive” and that it was “too late” to take them down. In a video of the incident, the police can be heard saying: You can either take it down or you can be charged with a public order offence. He refused, and the police arrested him. A Lancashire police spokesman told : On Monday, December 19, officers attended an address on Rodwell Walk following a number of complaints in relation to fairy lights on the outside of the house. Despite attempts to engage with the occupant the lights were not taken down and a 43-year-old man from Blackpool was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence and issued with a penalty notice for disorder. McGawley was released, and he replaced the sign with an apology.                     Keep scrolling for next article

After a pretty terrible 2016, people are enjoying getting into the Christmas cheer - some, more than others.

Steve McGawley decided to go for giggles over traditional festivity, when he decided to put up his Christmas lights.

McGawley decided to go down the NSFW route when he set up his lights, by drawing a penis, a bell and the word 'END'.

Police were called after a Blackpool man put up these Christmas lights https://t.co/XWGxSsMmi2 pic.twitter.com/R1GoC2ZUWJ — Yakub Qureshi (@yqshi) 21 December 2016

Christmas lights in Blackpool... pic.twitter.com/XUjkeHnYiv — Lady Sidney (@OO_5318008) 19 December 2016

The police were called (obviously), and initially McGawley refused to come out of his Blackpool home... Because he didn’t have any clothes on. Later, he met them face-to-face.

The police instructed him to take the sign down, but he insisted that it was “festive” and that it was “too late” to take them down.

In a video of the incident, the police can be heard saying:

You can either take it down or you can be charged with a public order offence.

He refused, and the police arrested him.

A Lancashire police spokesman told Metro:

On Monday, December 19, officers attended an address on Rodwell Walk following a number of complaints in relation to fairy lights on the outside of the house. Despite attempts to engage with the occupant the lights were not taken down and a 43-year-old man from Blackpool was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence and issued with a penalty notice for disorder.

McGawley was released, and he replaced the sign with an apology.

More: These MPs are on the naughty list this Christmas

More: A map of the world according to the countries that hate Christmas