For Everyone Who Knows “The Holiday” Is Better Than “Love Actually”
For Everyone Who Knows "The Holiday" Is Better Than "Love Actually"
Hello, people of the world. I’ve brought you here for one reason and one reason only: to put to end the madness that is believing is the greatest holiday movie of our time, when, in fact, it is not. Because actually, is the greatest holiday movie of our time. I mean, it has the word in it. That means something! Plus, it’s just the truth: is fucking great! (And better than .) First of all: has too many characters! You can’t keep up with them. It’s worse than the Kardashians! But has only a handful of characters. It’s literally, like, these four… …and then this guy. Which means you really get to appreciate their character development.  features both a quaint cottage in England AND a huge mansion in LA, and I wanna live in both of them! Plus, has Kate Winslet! Queen of rom-coms. I mean, have you seen ? It also has Jude Law with hair… … glasses. Which, let’s be honest, is a real treat. idvsmartiae.tumblr.com idvsmartiae.tumblr.com Not to mention, all of the characters were actually insanely relatable. I mean, can you say TRUE! VERY TRUE. SO TRUE. And Iris and Amanda practically invented Airbnb. Touchstone Pictures Touchstone Pictures Plus — like I mentioned earlier — there was a cute old man who was SO wise. And young-person + old-person movie friendships are the best. Not to mention had Mr. Napkin head. An icon. And the two cutest kids in movie history, Sophie and Olivia, who also happened to have made the world’s greatest tent fort. Finally, doesn’t have some jerk guy telling his best friend’s wife that he loves her!! (However, that did happen in , smh.) Basically, was brilliant (yep, that’s me being kinda British). And the ending was Christmas movie perfection. I mean, there was cute dancing and holiday cheer with our new couples. andreipratzs.tumblr.com hellagayforkatewinsletokay.tumblr.com  Iris and Amanda became best friends/sisters, which is just really goddamn cute. In conclusion: The End.   21 Reasons Dylan And Cole Sprouse Are The Total Package...    Kylie Jenner Shared What It's Like To Get Measured...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Report an Issue Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen. Cancel Next

What should we know about this issue? Back Next

Thanks! We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at Done