Huckabee Blasts Obama Admin: 'Have Some Common Decency' Toward Israel

Huckabee Blasts Obama Admin: 'Have Some Common Decency' Toward Israel // // // // // Mike Huckabee criticized the Obama administration for the United States' abstention during a United Nations vote condemning Israeli settlement expansion in the West Bank. "This is about evil and good," Huckabee said, "I am just beyond in a seething rage over what this administration has done in its last days... have some just common decency." Huckabee called US Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power's abstention during an otherwise unanimous vote condemning Israel "cowardly" and said that her silence was effectively an agreement with the motion. "It basically says to Israel, 'you don't deserve to be a nation that has secure borders'," Huckabee said. The former presidential candidate said the term 'settlements', used by the UN, is a misnomer, as the Israelis are building neighborhoods in land "given to them by the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob" four thousand years ago. He called the "two-state solution" plan feckless and dangerous, and said the United Nations has become a "laughingstock." What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Trump: We Must Fight Back Against Berlin Terrorist's 'Religious Threat'

Sanders on Trump's Nuclear Race: Congress Must Stop 'Tweeter in Chief'

Democratic Senators Calling for Rex Tillerson to Release Tax Returns

Mike Huckabee criticized the Obama administration for the United States' abstention during a United Nations vote condemning Israeli settlement expansion in the West Bank.

"This is about evil and good," Huckabee said, "I am just beyond in a seething rage over what this administration has done in its last days... have some just common decency."

Huckabee called US Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power's abstention during an otherwise unanimous vote condemning Israel "cowardly" and said that her silence was effectively an agreement with the motion.

"It basically says to Israel, 'you don't deserve to be a nation that has secure borders'," Huckabee said.

The former presidential candidate said the term 'settlements', used by the UN, is a misnomer, as the Israelis are building neighborhoods in land "given to them by the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob" four thousand years ago.

He called the "two-state solution" plan feckless and dangerous, and said the United Nations has become a "laughingstock."

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

'It's Disgusting': McCain Rips Man Who Berated Ivanka Trump & Kids on Plane

READ: Trump Received a 'Very Nice' Christmas Letter From Putin

WATCH: Kellyanne Conway Reacts to New Senior Role in Trump White House