Goldman Warns China Outflows Rising in Both Yuan Payments, Forex
Goldman Warns China Outflows Are Rising
Cochinos: Renminbi to Reach Inflection Point in 2017 China’s capital outflows are accelerating and the central bank is selling larger amounts of foreign exchange, Goldman Sachs Group Inc warned as the yuan headed for its biggest annual decline in more than 20 years. A net $69.2 billion exited the nation in November, compared with a monthly pace of around $50 billion since June, Goldman economists led by Hong Kong-based MK Tang wrote in a note Friday. Money has been leaving in yuan payments for 14 consecutive months, while the central bank’s yuan positions have slumped the most since January. The situation could get worse, said Banny Lam, head of research at CEB International Investment Ltd. “Capital outflows and yuan depreciation will continue or even worsen by the end of this year and the first quarter of 2017, as investors are getting increasingly concerned about a stronger dollar and China’s economic conditions," said Hong Kong-based Lam. "The yuan will reach 7 very soon. Policy makers will keep tight capital control in the near term but will continue to internationalize the currency in the long term."  The equivalent of $33.6 billion exited China via yuan payments last month, compared with $29 billion in October, according to the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. The monetary authority’s yuan positions -- which reflect the amount of foreign currency held on its balance sheet -- slumped by 383 billion yuan ($55 billion) in November, PBOC data showed. A total of $1.1 trillion of foreign currency has left China since August 2015, when China devalued the yuan, according to Goldman. In the spot market, the offshore yuan spiked higher after the PBOC strengthened its daily fixing, which limits onshore moves to 2 percent on either side. The monetary authority raised the rate by 0.28 percent, the most in nine sessions, to 6.9312 per dollar on Monday. That was stronger than Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.’s prediction of 6.9463 and Mizuho Bank Ltd.’s projection of about 6.9600. "The fixing was very, very strong," said Ken Cheung, Hong Kong-based Asia currency strategist at Mizuho. "The PBOC is sending a signal that it wants to slow the depreciation pace when the onshore sentiment has been deteriorating quickly and capital is leaving the nation quickly." The offshore yuan surged 0.32% to 6.9453 per dollar as of 4:59 p.m. in Hong Kong, while the onshore rate gained 0.07%. The Chinese currency traded in Shanghai is heading for a loss of 6.5% for this year, the most since 1994. Ten-year government bonds fell, with the yield rising 5 basis points to 3.4% One-year interest-rate swaps rose 6 basis points to 3.51%

China’s capital outflows are accelerating and the central bank is selling larger amounts of foreign exchange, Goldman Sachs Group Inc warned as the yuan headed for its biggest annual decline in more than 20 years.

A net $69.2 billion exited the nation in November, compared with a monthly pace of around $50 billion since June, Goldman economists led by Hong Kong-based MK Tang wrote in a note Friday. Money has been leaving in yuan payments for 14 consecutive months, while the central bank’s yuan positions have slumped the most since January. The situation could get worse, said Banny Lam, head of research at CEB International Investment Ltd.

“Capital outflows and yuan depreciation will continue or even worsen by the end of this year and the first quarter of 2017, as investors are getting increasingly concerned about a stronger dollar and China’s economic conditions," said Hong Kong-based Lam. "The yuan will reach 7 very soon. Policy makers will keep tight capital control in the near term but will continue to internationalize the currency in the long term."

The most important market news of the day. Get our markets daily newsletter. The equivalent of $33.6 billion exited China via yuan payments last month, compared with $29 billion in October, according to the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. The monetary authority’s yuan positions -- which reflect the amount of foreign currency held on its balance sheet -- slumped by 383 billion yuan ($55 billion) in November, PBOC data showed. A total of $1.1 trillion of foreign currency has left China since August 2015, when China devalued the yuan, according to Goldman.

In the spot market, the offshore yuan spiked higher after the PBOC strengthened its daily fixing, which limits onshore moves to 2 percent on either side. The monetary authority raised the rate by 0.28 percent, the most in nine sessions, to 6.9312 per dollar on Monday. That was stronger than Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.’s prediction of 6.9463 and Mizuho Bank Ltd.’s projection of about 6.9600.

"The fixing was very, very strong," said Ken Cheung, Hong Kong-based Asia currency strategist at Mizuho. "The PBOC is sending a signal that it wants to slow the depreciation pace when the onshore sentiment has been deteriorating quickly and capital is leaving the nation quickly."

The offshore yuan surged 0.32% to 6.9453 per dollar as of 4:59 p.m. in Hong Kong, while the onshore rate gained 0.07%. The Chinese currency traded in Shanghai is heading for a loss of 6.5% for this year, the most since 1994.

Ten-year government bonds fell, with the yield rising 5 basis points to 3.4%

One-year interest-rate swaps rose 6 basis points to 3.51%

— With assistance by Tian Chen