No-show for Prince William and Prince Harry at traditional Christmas Eve football match
No-show for Prince William and Prince Harry at traditional Christmas Eve football match
he Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry left spectators disappointed on Saturday when they failed to turn up for the traditional Christmas Eve football match. There was no sign of the royal brothers at the 11-a-side game which was played in their absence at Castle Rising, near the Queen's private Norfolk estate of Sandringham. Prince William, 34, is thought to have missed the match in order to spend time with his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, Prince George and Princess Charlotte with the Middleton family at their home in Berkshire. eanwhile, Prince Harry, 32 is thought to be staying at nearby Sandringham House. The reason for his absence from the match is not known. The annual game was played on a pitch opposite the twelfth century home of Tory peer Lord Greville Howard. Lord Howard, 75, said neither of the brothers had made arrangement to play this year.  "They were not expected. One does not like to ask why, but they have enjoyed playing in previous years," he said. Lord Howard played for the first few minutes in what he called "a cameo appearance" before leaving the pitch, saying he was under doctor's orders not to play. A crowd of around one hundred villagers turned up to watch but many departed after it started to rain, by which time it had become clear that the princes were not joining the match. Last year Prince William and Prince Harry were lashed by winds, torrential rain and sleet when they took part in the match. he Royal brothers, who normally play on opposing teams in the annual festive match, broke with tradition last year by playing for the same side. Prince William missed the match the previous year after apparently hurting his ankle in an earlier game, leaving his younger brother to play with James Middleton, the brother of the Duchess of Cambridge. Members of the Royal family have been spending time with Queen and Prince Philip at Sandringham over the past few days. he Queen and Prince Philip were originally due to travel on Wednesday to Sandringham where they traditionally spend their Christmas and New Year break. However their plan to catch the train to King's Lynn, Norfolk, before finishing their journey by car was cancelled at the last minute as they had "heavy colds". Instead they were flown up on Thursday in the Royal family's helicopter, taking just 40 minutes to make the 110 mile trip from Buckingham Palace. The Queen and other member of her family are expected to appear in public on Sunday when they attend a Christmas Day service at St Mary Magdalene church in Sandringham.

Meanwhile, Prince Harry, 32 is thought to be staying at nearby Sandringham House. The reason for his absence from the match is not known.

The annual game was played on a pitch opposite the twelfth century home of Tory peer Lord Greville Howard.

Lord Howard, 75, said neither of the brothers had made arrangement to play this year. "They were not expected. One does not like to ask why, but they have enjoyed playing in previous years," he said.

Lord Howard played for the first few minutes in what he called "a cameo appearance" before leaving the pitch, saying he was under doctor's orders not to play.

A crowd of around one hundred villagers turned up to watch but many departed after it started to rain, by which time it had become clear that the princes were not joining the match.

Last year Prince William and Prince Harry were lashed by winds, torrential rain and sleet when they took part in the match.