Rise Of The Trucks: Upscale SUVs Are Now Outselling Luxury Sedans
Rise Of The Trucks: Upscale SUVs Are Now Outselling Luxury Sedans
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jim Gorzelany       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As if we need further proof of a seismic shift in car buyers’ tastes, luxury SUVs (including large truck-based models and more wagon-like car-based crossovers) are on pace to outsell traditional luxury cars for the first time in the genre’s rather brief history. Upscale SUVs are expected to grab 55 percent of the luxury market this year, and reach a never-before-seen 60 percent share next year, according to the latest Luxury Market Report from Edmunds.com . Introduced this year, the Jaguar F-Pace crossover SUV has helped the brand register an 81% sales increase over the first three quarters of the year according to Edmunds.com. (Photo by Hannes Magerstaedt/Getty Images) As it stands, sales of luxury cars are down by 13.1 percent this year, while deliveries of upscale SUVs are up by the same percentage over the first three quarters of the year. Less than a decade ago luxury car sales outnumbered luxury SUV sales by a better than 2 to 1 margin. We suppose that’s good news for automakers that reportedly see profits as rich as 20 percent or more on top-priced models, which start in the $50,000 range and can reach well into six figures. Edmunds says Jaguar’s sales jumped by 81% over the first three quarters of the year on the basis of its new F-Pace crossover, while Volvo saw a 26% boost on the strength of its top XC90 SUV that was redesigned for 2016. The costliest carpooler on the road right now is the opulent Bentley Bentayga, which starts at $231,825 and typically goes out the door for far more than that when fitted with options and bespoke treatments. Maserati entered the segment this year with its first-ever SUV, the Levante, and even Rolls-Royce is working on an uber-luxury SUV of its own, to be called the "Low gas prices, changing consumer tastes and attractive new vehicles are creating the perfect environment for luxury SUV sales to grow," says Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds executive director of industry analysis. "Given that luxury brand loyalty rates are typically higher than for volume brands, this trend has the potential to affect this vehicle segment for years to come." Clearly, luxury trucks and crossovers are luring well-heeled buyers with an unbeatable combination of opulence and practicality. To that end Caldwell credits women buyers for the growing popularity of upscale SUVs; 57% of female buyers in the luxury segment are choosing SUVs these days, versus 49 percent among their male counterparts. Luxury SUVs now come every bit as lavishly equipped and finished as the costliest sedans and coupes, yet they’re generally easier to get in and out of, ride higher off the ground to afford a more commanding view of the road, and deliver added passenger room and cargo space given their tall and largely horizontal rooflines. Luxury crossovers either come standard with or offer all-wheel-drive systems for added traction over wet or snowy roads, with the largest truck-based SUVs riding on burlier four-wheel-drive architecture with low-range gearing for traversing trails and climbing rocks away from the pavement. "Luxury automakers who anticipated this trend are really reaping the rewards: they're attracting previously untapped buyers, increasing brand loyalty and enjoying healthy profit margins," Caldwell says. "It's a winning scenario that shows no signs of slowing down." 20 Most Expensive SUVs For 2017    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As if we need further proof of a seismic shift in car buyers’ tastes, luxury SUVs (including large truck-based models and more wagon-like car-based crossovers) are on pace to outsell traditional luxury cars for the first time in the genre’s rather brief history. Upscale SUVs are expected to grab 55 percent of the luxury market this year, and reach a never-before-seen 60 percent share next year, according to the latest Luxury Market Report from Edmunds.com.

As it stands, sales of luxury cars are down by 13.1 percent this year, while deliveries of upscale SUVs are up by the same percentage over the first three quarters of the year. Less than a decade ago luxury car sales outnumbered luxury SUV sales by a better than 2 to 1 margin.

We suppose that’s good news for automakers that reportedly see profits as rich as 20 percent or more on top-priced models, which start in the $50,000 range and can reach well into six figures. Edmunds says Jaguar’s sales jumped by 81% over the first three quarters of the year on the basis of its new F-Pace crossover, while Volvo saw a 26% boost on the strength of its top XC90 SUV that was redesigned for 2016.

The costliest carpooler on the road right now is the opulent Bentley Bentayga, which starts at $231,825 and typically goes out the door for far more than that when fitted with options and bespoke treatments. Maserati entered the segment this year with its first-ever SUV, the Levante, and even Rolls-Royce is working on an uber-luxury SUV of its own, to be called the Cullinan.

"Low gas prices, changing consumer tastes and attractive new vehicles are creating the perfect environment for luxury SUV sales to grow," says Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds executive director of industry analysis. "Given that luxury brand loyalty rates are typically higher than for volume brands, this trend has the potential to affect this vehicle segment for years to come."

Clearly, luxury trucks and crossovers are luring well-heeled buyers with an unbeatable combination of opulence and practicality. To that end Caldwell credits women buyers for the growing popularity of upscale SUVs; 57% of female buyers in the luxury segment are choosing SUVs these days, versus 49 percent among their male counterparts.

Luxury SUVs now come every bit as lavishly equipped and finished as the costliest sedans and coupes, yet they’re generally easier to get in and out of, ride higher off the ground to afford a more commanding view of the road, and deliver added passenger room and cargo space given their tall and largely horizontal rooflines. Luxury crossovers either come standard with or offer all-wheel-drive systems for added traction over wet or snowy roads, with the largest truck-based SUVs riding on burlier four-wheel-drive architecture with low-range gearing for traversing trails and climbing rocks away from the pavement.

"Luxury automakers who anticipated this trend are really reaping the rewards: they're attracting previously untapped buyers, increasing brand loyalty and enjoying healthy profit margins," Caldwell says. "It's a winning scenario that shows no signs of slowing down."

Also on Forbes...