Bata Sues Jolly LLB 2 Makers, Salman Throws Out Priyanka Jagga From BB House And More From Ent
Bata Sues Jolly LLB 2 Makers, Salman Throws Out Priyanka Jagga From BB House And More From Ent
Bata Sues Jolly LLB 2 Makers, Salman Throws Out Priyanka Jagga From BB House And More From Ent 1. Footwear company Bata has sued the entire cast and crew of Jolly LLB 2 for derogatory remarks about the brand Bata has asked for a personal apology as well as an apology published in mainstream national newspapers. Further, they also want the filmmakers to pull down the 'allegedly' derogatory trailer and publish a prominent apology on all versions of its trailer, for damaging the reputation of Bata. 2. According to a clip that is going viral, Salman Khan has thrown Bigg Boss 10 contestant Priyanka Jagga out of the house After an argument between Salman Khan and Priyanka Jagga, he reportedly told her to leave the show midway. 3. Sanjay Leela Bhansali and SRK are all set to reunite for a film based on Sahir Ludhianvi A Mumbai Mirror report claims that this reunion might happen after fourteen years for SLB's impending project based on poet Sahir Ludhianvi. The report claimed that SRK and SLB met to discuss the script and if everything works out, SRK might be on board for the project. 4. In his latest interview, Randeep Hooda expressed his happiness and told the media how he is hoping that his film wins the Oscar In an email interview with IANS, Hooda said, "It feels great to have one's work appreciated by the Academy Awards, which, I feel, mostly recognizes cinematic excellence. A lot of people had, at the time of release, deemed this particular performance Oscar-worthy and then one hears this. Not only that, I hope it goes on to win it. But as far as I know, there is a lot lobbying required to get to that point. As you can see, I'm not good at all at that." 5. A Dubai guy posted the entire film on his Facebook profile Thankfully, the video has now been deleted due to copyright issues. But it still had more than 8,33,000 views when it was deleted.

1. Footwear company Bata has sued the entire cast and crew of Jolly LLB 2 for derogatory remarks about the brand

YouTube

Bata has asked for a personal apology as well as an apology published in mainstream national newspapers. Further, they also want the filmmakers to pull down the 'allegedly' derogatory trailer and publish a prominent apology on all versions of its trailer, for damaging the reputation of Bata.

2. According to a clip that is going viral, Salman Khan has thrown Bigg Boss 10 contestant Priyanka Jagga out of the house

After an argument between Salman Khan and Priyanka Jagga, he reportedly told her to leave the show midway.

3. Sanjay Leela Bhansali and SRK are all set to reunite for a film based on Sahir Ludhianvi

A Mumbai Mirror report claims that this reunion might happen after fourteen years for SLB's impending project based on poet Sahir Ludhianvi. The report claimed that SRK and SLB met to discuss the script and if everything works out, SRK might be on board for the project.

4. In his latest interview, Randeep Hooda expressed his happiness and told the media how he is hoping that his film Sarbjit wins the Oscar

Twitter

In an email interview with IANS, Hooda said, "It feels great to have one's work appreciated by the Academy Awards, which, I feel, mostly recognizes cinematic excellence. A lot of people had, at the time of release, deemed this particular performance Oscar-worthy and then one hears this. Not only that, I hope it goes on to win it. But as far as I know, there is a lot lobbying required to get to that point. As you can see, I'm not good at all at that."

5. A Dubai guy posted the entire film Dangal on his Facebook profile

YouTube

Thankfully, the video has now been deleted due to copyright issues. But it still had more than 8,33,000 views when it was deleted.