Someone Mashed-up 100 Classic Christmas Tracks (And It's Terrifying)
Someone Mashed-up 100 Classic Christmas Tracks (And It's Terrifying) 
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Someone Mashed-up 100 Classic Christmas Tracks (And It's Terrifying)  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Imagine for a moment, Santa gave you all the presents you’d dreamed of. Consider an outrageous mother lode of gifts under the Christmas tree. And what would it be like to open all of them at once? That’s pretty much the idea behind "The Chaos Carol," a rather terrifying mashup of the 100 most popular Christmas songs. It’s a cacophony of yuletide classics, from “All I Want for Christmas” to “Last Christmas,” “Hallelujah” and the other 97 tracks on Billboard’s Holiday 100 chart , all smashed into a single track.  Its creator Petter Rudwall explains the art behind his musical monstrosity in an essay for . “Me personally,” he writes. “I’ve always had a hard time wrapping my head around Christmas Carols. I dunno, might be something with the joyful, yet plastic, tone to the songs, or simply the happy-go-lucky vibe. Can’t stand it. Save me.” Check it out below (but perhaps don’t blast it when the folks are sat down for Christmas dinner).  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Imagine for a moment, Santa gave you all the presents you’d dreamed of. Consider an outrageous mother lode of gifts under the Christmas tree. And what would it be like to open all of them at once? That’s pretty much the idea behind "The Chaos Carol," a rather terrifying mashup of the 100 most popular Christmas songs.

It’s a cacophony of yuletide classics, from Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas” to Wham!’s “Last Christmas,” Pentatonix’ “Hallelujah” and the other 97 tracks on Billboard’s Holiday 100 chart, all smashed into a single track.

Its creator Petter Rudwall explains the art behind his musical monstrosity in an essay for Medium.

“Me personally,” he writes. “I’ve always had a hard time wrapping my head around Christmas Carols. I dunno, might be something with the joyful, yet plastic, tone to the songs, or simply the happy-go-lucky vibe. Can’t stand it. Save me.”

Check it out below (but perhaps don’t blast it when the folks are sat down for Christmas dinner).