How YOU can cut 600 calories from Christmas dinner
How YOU can cut 600 calories from Christmas dinner


Christmas is well known for being an indulgent time of the year but with a recent report revealing that we will consume nearly 6,000 calories with our Christmas Day feast, it may be worth curbing at least some of the excesses.

Luckily there is a way to cut a staggering 600 calories from your traditional Christmas dinner - and it's unlikely you and your family will even notice the changes.

Femail has revealed the very easy food swaps you can make to reduce the calorie count.

1. SWAP YOUR STUFFING

Swap sausage meat stuffing (left) for apricot and hazelnut stuffing (right) to save 200 calories

Stuffing is a staple of any Christmas dinner - but the traditional sausage meat, sage and onion mix is very calorific.

Just one portion of stuffing can contain 328 calories. But you don't have to eliminate this quintessential festive element from your plate altogether.

Instead, why not try an alternative to the traditional mix by making an apricot and hazelnut stuffing.

BBC Good Food's recipe has only 124 calories per saving - 200 less than the meaty equivalent.

CALORIES SAVED: 204

BBC GOOD FOOD'S APRICOT AND HAZELNUT STUFFING Ingredients: 2 large onion, chopped 50g butter 50g hazelnut, roughly chopped 140g ready-to-eat dried apricot, chopped 175g fresh white breadcrumb 20g pack parsley, chopped finely grated zest of 1 lemon 1 egg, beaten olive oil, for drizzling Method: 1. Fry onions in the butter. Stir in nuts; fry until golden. Remove from the heat, add apricots, breadcrumbs, parsley and lemon zest. Mix in the egg and season. Use half to stuff the neck end of the turkey; shape the rest into balls. 2. Put the balls in a buttered baking dish, then drizzle with oil. Bake for 30 mins until golden, or roast them around the turkey.

2. SWAP MINCE PIES FOR BAKED APPLES

Mince pies can be swapped for mincemeat-filled baked apples to save 95 calories

Mince pies are a treat you only get at this time of year. But considering how bite-sized they are, they contain a lot of calories.

So if you're looking to curb some of your feasting this year, swap your mince pies for mincemeat-filled baked apples instead.

Simply fill a cored apple with the mince pie mincemeat mixture and bake for 20 minutes or until the apples are cooked through.

You'll still have that iconic taste of Christmas without the calories - these baked apples have roughly 127 calories per serving.

CALORIES SAVED: 95

3. MULLED WINE FOR MULLED TEA

Swap boozy mulled wine (left) for mulled tea (right) without losing any of the mulled spice flavour - but saving 123 calories

An easy way to cut calories from your Christmas Day feast is to cut out alcohol. But while eliminating all booze from your day may be too much to ask, there is a way at least to enjoy all the flavours of mulled wine without any of the 128 calories.

BBC Good Food has a recipe for a mulled tea which uses all the same spices as in the classic boozy wine version: cloves, cinnamon, and orange.

Simply pour litre of water into a saucepan with dried rose petals, cloves, a bay leaf, a cinnamon stick, frozen mixed berries, a teaspoon of cranberry sauce and half an orange.

Bring it to the boil before taking off the heat and dropping in a green tea bag. Leave to steep for two to three minutes before serving warm.

It may not make you giddy, but at five calories a cup, it will keep you trim while still allowing you to enjoy those famous festive flavours.

CALORIES SAVED: 123

4. CUT OUT THE BUTTER

Cut out the butter from your vegetable side dishes to save 102 calories

Butter can make your vegetable side dishes taste luscious and rich. But if you cook the elements perfectly, and season them well with salt and pepper, you shouldn't notice if you cut out the butter from the cooking stage.

Mashed potatoes are already loaded with cream and salt, while roasted sweet potatoes are naturally sweet and flavoursome.

And when you've got all the trimmings together on a plate with the turkey, the tastes tend to merge as soon as you've got them all on one fork anyway.

CALORIES SAVED: 102

5. DON'T HAVE A BREAD ROLL

Ditch the bread roll with your Christmas dinner to save 100 calories

It's not a tradition in every household, but many families eat their Christmas dinner with a bread roll on the side to mop up any leftover gravy and meat juices with.

But a single bread roll can contain 100 calories

An additional bread roll is simply unnecessary when you'll be so stuffed full of plenty of other food and drink anyway - it will only make you feel fuller.

CALORIES SAVED: 100