This Gene-Editing Technology Will Change the World. But Who Gets the Credit?
This gene-editing technology will change the world. But who gets the credit?


Bloomberg Businessweek From

In the very best invention stories, the tinkerer spends years toiling in obscurity before the big breakthrough. Jennifer Doudna’s story is like that. The 52-year-old biochemist grew up in Hawaii, studied at Pomona College and Harvard, and later joined the faculty at the University of California at Berkeley. While the rest of the scientific world seemed fixated on DNA, the blueprint of all biology, Doudna built detailed maps of RNA, which had long been thought of as the loyal foot soldier following DNA’s orders. Doudna was trying to figure out more precisely what role RNA plays in human genetics—the various ways it can actually control genes. For years, DNA remained the focus of most everyone else’s research. “I definitely had some sleepless nights,” she says, “just wondering, Is this the right decision, should I be doing this?”

Then one day in 2011, Doudna was approached at a conference by a French microbiologist named Emmanuelle Charpentier, who wanted to talk about a phenomenon called Crispr. Until then, most biologists understood Crispr, assuming they’d heard of it at all, to be an antiviral system found in bacteria. The bacteria used it to identify invading viruses and activate special proteins that would bind to the viral DNA and snip it out. No one had successfully found a plausible way to adapt and re-create that bacterial process in a more complex biological system—like a human being. Whoever could pull that off might be able to cure diseases, alter the genetic code, and even change the human species. It all sounded like science fiction, of course, until Charpentier told Doudna that Crispr seemed to interact with a protein called Cas9 in an extraordinary way.

The two decided to join forces, and one year later published a study detailing how they’d adapted the Crispr-Cas9 editing technique to not just cut but paste genes into any bacteria—that is, customize a bacterium’s DNA makeup along whichever lines they chose, with little fuss. The technique was enormously promising. Editing the human genome had been possible for a few years, but slowly, imprecisely, and with great difficulty. Crispr-Cas9 might eventually make it almost as straightforward as the search-and-replace feature of a word processor. What if one day, using Crispr, we could edit out Alzheimer’s, schizophrenia, or cancer? Soon, the two scientists were onstage with Cameron Diaz, accepting the Silicon Valley-funded $3 million Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences. They were on everybody’s shortlist for the Nobel prize, their work hailed as the great biotech advancement of the century. “I couldn’t have predicted it,” Doudna says.

That’s a nice story, but there’s another. It’s about Feng Zhang, a 34-year-old molecular biologist at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. Zhang was born in China and raised in Iowa, and he quickly became a star at Harvard and Stanford, where he was obsessed with finding the perfect way to reprogram human cells. “I’ve always been focused on genome editing,” he says. In 2011, the same year Doudna met Charpentier, Zhang attended a conference at the Broad Institute, in the same building as his lab, and heard a speaker offhandedly mention the Crispr immune system in bacteria. Zhang read everything he could find on the subject. He fixated particularly on a Canadian biologist’s 2010 paper noting the exceptional utility of the Cas9 protein.

Zhang spent months testing Cas9 enzymes, and was preparing to publish his findings in 2012, when Doudna and Charpentier’s paper came out. In Zhang’s paper, published a few months later, he showed how he’d successfully harnessed Crispr with Cas9 to edit a gene in a eukaryotic cell—that is, a cell with a nucleus. In the eyes of some, that distinction vaulted him ahead of Doudna and Charpentier. To edit a bacterial gene, the way Doudna had, was one thing; to actually monkey with the building blocks of humanity was another.

Jennifer Doudna

Courtesy Keegan Houser/UC Berkeley Feng Zhang

Courtesy Kent Dayton/McGovern Institute for Brain Research at MIT

Every decade or so, a fundamentally new genetic technology comes along that could change everything. In the 1970s it was restriction enzymes, the tools for recombinant DNA, which turbocharged the development of new medicines and the tools of basic biological research. In the ’80s, the polymerase chain reaction revolutionized day-to-day molecular biology by making it much easier to quickly copy a piece of DNA thousands of millions of times, speeding the pace of medical research even further. In the ’90s, next-generation DNA sequencing pushed forward the study of the genome to a level once thought impossible. Now there’s Crispr, which could trounce them all.

The name, coined in 2002 by Spanish researcher Francisco Mojica, is short for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (you can tell somebody really wanted to spell “Crispr”). Today it’s understood to be, potentially, a cheap and quick way to fix anything about a genetic code. “It’s almost as fundamental as the transistor,” says Andrew May, the chief scientific officer at Caribou Biosciences, a Crispr startup co-founded by Doudna in 2011. “If you think of DNA as the fundamental sort of software code that underpins the computer that cells are, you’re essentially programming those cells. You can target any piece of DNA and change it.”

In the popular imagination, Crispr has prompted alarmed speculation about eugenics, designer babies, and hubris worthy of Jurassic Park. The results may be able to change inheritable traits that could forever alter the nature of any species—not just mosquitoes, which a British company named Oxitec plans to tinker with in the Florida Keys using a gene-modifying technique that predates Crispr. Researchers in China have already tried out Crispr-Cas9 on human embryos. They never intended to implant the embryos in mothers and reported mixed success at best. Yet the attempt shook many in the scientific community. In June, a federal biosafety and ethics panel approved human trials of Crispr-Cas9 by a University of Pennsylvania team that has the backing of Napster co-founder and itinerant entrepreneur Sean Parker. Home hobbyists, meanwhile, are using Crispr to fiddle with yeast in petri dishes, splicing together who-knows-what. Harvard researcher George Church appears serious about a plan to use Crispr to bring back the woolly mammoth.

Nearer-term advances could change our lives in more welcome ways. Researchers around the world see Crispr’s precision as a perfect tool for curing single-gene illnesses like Duchenne muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis, and an inherited form of blindness called LCA 10. “There are 6,000 or so genetic diseases, and 95 percent of them don’t have any proved therapies,” says Katrine Bosley, chief executive officer of Editas Medicine, a Cambridge, Mass., Crispr startup. “In this day and age, we have a deep knowledge of the human genome and how to make genetic medicines that we didn’t have 5, 10 years ago.”

Funding Race Editas Medicine $94.4m IPO Market value: $900 million Crispr Therapeutics $198m in equity sales; pharma partnerships worth $440 million Intellia Therapeutics $112.9m IPO Market value: $900 million Parker Institute $250m donated by Sean Parker; first Crispr-Cas9 human trial in pipeline

AstraZeneca and Novartis have teamed up with Crispr startups to develop and bring drugs to market. Beyond cures, Crispr is being viewed as a way to make cancer drugs more effective, to build a better class of antivirals to fight HIV, and to modify pig organs to make them more suitable as transplants for humans. In just a few years, the technique could make its way into everything from medicine to agriculture to biofuels—anything involving a gene. Imagine genetically modified crops that, with Crispr’s assistance, don’t use any genes other than their own, sidestepping the GMO controversy. DuPont is already working with Caribou on mushrooms that stay white after being cut, and told Doudna it has 25 Crispr-related products in the pipeline, including corn, soybeans, wheat, and rice.

For a time, Zhang and Doudna were cordial. Along with a few other molecular biologists, they joined the board of Editas. Then, in 2014, the federal government granted Zhang the first patent on Crispr-Cas9. Although Doudna and Charpentier enjoyed a wave of glowing press, Zhang stood to get the money and, maybe, the spot in the history books. Doudna left Editas a month later; though she says the reason was too many cross-country commutes for board meetings, she helped found a new startup, Intellia Therapeutics, that would be directly competing for venture capital. The race for funding was on. Bill Gates and Google Ventures were among the contributors to Editas’s $120 million Series B investment round—Gates is particularly enthusiastic about altering entire mosquito populations to stop malaria—and the company netted an additional $94.4 million in a February initial public offering. Intellia, in turn, raised $112.9 million when it went public in May. Charpentier’s Crispr Therapeutics has yet to go public but has raised $198 million in venture funding and has contracts with Bayer and Vertex Pharmaceuticals worth a combined $440 million. “All I can say is that we did it in my lab with Jennifer Doudna,” she told one reporter in 2014. “I am very confident that the future will clarify the situation.” All told, Crispr companies have attracted more than $1 billion of venture capital and other funding, even as credit for the technology and its relevant patent remain a matter of dispute.

Next came the litigation. In 2015, UC Berkeley’s lawyers filed a claim on behalf of Doudna with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, seeking to strip Zhang and the Broad Institute’s hold on Crispr-Cas9. Proceedings began this spring, but the most dramatic part is still to come. In November, Doudna and Zhang may have to take the stand, each asserting under oath that she or he deserves the patent for what may well be the biological advancement of our age. The stakes are sky-high. Billions of dollars in revenue. Control over entire industries yet to be born. And, perhaps, the future of human evolution.