Call for Polish lorry driver to be given award after fighting terror truck killer in Berlin
Calls for bravery award man who fought Berlin terror truck killer


Thousands have called for the Polish lorry driver who fought in the cabin with the Berlin terror truck killer to be given the highest award for bravery in Germany.

Lukasz Urban, whose lorry was hijacked by ISIS fanatic Anis Amri, scrapped with the terrorist moments before he ploughed into a Christmas market, killing 11.

The Polish driver was also killed, but it has been claimed his actions stopped the death toll from soaring even higher, and more than 18,000 people have signed a petition for his bravery to be recognised.

Scroll down for video

Lukasz Urban, whose lorry was hijacked by ISIS fanatic Anis Amri, scrapped with the terrorist moments before he ploughed into a Christmas market, killing 11

A man (bottom right) places a candle on the memorial at the Christmas market near the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gedaechtniskirche (Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church) in Berlin on Christmas Eve

Candles, flowers and individual messages are placed at a makeshift memorial for the victims of the Christmas market attack

The online petition, set up in Germany, said: 'Lukasz Urban the truck driver at the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz in Berlin that gave on Monday, December 19, his life while trying to prevent a terrorist from the worst.

'According to recent reports showing the autopsy that he has struggled with the offender and was seriously injured by this and eventually killed.

'This heroic action probably saved many lives and is a great sign for the friendship and reconciliation between our country and Poland - our ancestors have done terrible things.

'All German, not only Berliners, have reason to remember him, and his survivors to thank (his wife and son).

'For this bravery he earned Germany's highest decoration.'

Mr Urban, 37, was stabbed and shot dead in the cabin of his truck and is thought to have been the first victim of the attack.

His killer, Tunisian Amri, was shot dead in Milan after going on the run for four days having driven the 35-tonne into shoppers at the busy Christmas market.

Makeshift memorials have been set up at the scene as thousands of locals and visitors pay tribute to those who lost their lives.

A sea of candles and flowers have been laid on the floor of the Christmas market in Berlin.

Makeshift memorials have been set up at the scene as thousands of locals and visitors pay tribute to those who lost their lives

Ariel Zurawski, the owner of a Polish trucking company, shows the last photo taken of his cousin and driver, Lukasz Urban, who was apparently the first victim of the attack in Berlin on Monday

A sea of candles and flowers have been laid on the floor of the Christmas market in Berlin

Candles, flowers and individual messages are placed at a makeshift memorial for the victims of the Christmas market attack near the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gedaechtniskirche (Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church) in Berlin on Christmas Eve

As well as the fight for recognition, a fund for his family has reached six figures.

A crowd-funding appeal set up by a British trucker to help the family of the Polish driver who died in the Berlin terror attack has now passed £140,000.

More than 8,800 people have contributed to a fund titled For The Family Of Lukasz Urban in the three days since it was set up by Yorkshire lorry driver Dave Duncan.

As the total moved into six figures, Mr Duncan, from Otley, West Yorkshire, posted a message on his fundraising page he said he has sent to Mr Urban's widow, Zuzanna.

The message begins: 'You dont know me, my name is Dave and I am a truck driver just like your brave husband.

'I am so sorry, as are all his truck driving brothers across the UK for your terrible loss. Your man should never have been taken this way and in my eyes he is an hero.

'When I read about the shocking events and his brave, unselfish actions that led to your loss I felt compelled to try help his family in some small way, and came up with idea of raising a little money for you to use however you saw fit.'

People are calling for the hero driver Lukasz Urban

The letter continued: 'No money will ever replace Lukasz I know, but hopefully it will help you and your family in the future without him.

'An amazing amount of people saw what I saw in Lukasz, a hard working man just doing his job in the place at the wrong time, and have chosen to use the fund that I set up to express their sorrow at your loss, and help his family in their darkest hour.'

Mr Duncan then asked Mrs Urban to contact him in her own time so he can arrange to get the funds to her.

He added: 'He will never be forgotten, Lukasz Urban, husband, father, trucker, hero.....a great, great man.'

In a series of posts on gofundme.com, Mr Duncan said he is working with the crowdfunding site to make sure the cash reaches Mr Urban's family and has used the website to keep donors up to date with his attempts to contact them through the deceased driver's company and Polish journalists.

He said in one update: 'I can assure everybody who has donated that their gifts will get to Lukasz's family, even if it means driving to Poland myself.

'Although it is wonderful to receive messages of support, I am no hero or angel. I am simply a truck driver with a small idea that snowballed with your generosity. Lukasz is the only hero!'

On Wednesday, the manager of Mr Urban's Polish trucking company, Lukasz Wasik,described him as a 'good, quiet and honest person' who was devoted to his work.

On TVP, Poland's state broadcaster, Mr Wasik said: 'I believe he would not give up the vehicle and would defend it to the end if were attacked.'

Mr Duncan's site is at www.gofundme.com/van9vwuk