Oklahoma’s Joe Mixon apologizes, takes ‘full responsibility’ for hitting woman in 2014

Oklahoma Sooners running back Joe Mixon apologized on Friday for punching a woman who fell toward a table and broke multiple bones in her face. “I take full responsibility for what happened,” the 20-year-old said in a Friday news conference, addressing the July 2014 incident for the first time publicly since video of his actions was released last week . “It’s never okay to hit a woman. Never. I’ll preach that to anybody.” Mixon addressed the woman, Amelia Molitor, directly, before apologizing to Sooners Coach Bob Stoops, university president David Boren, athletic director Joe Castiglione, his teammates and family. “I’m just here to apologize to Ms. Molitor,” Mixon said before adding, “I let a lot of people down. . . . I’m here to apologize to everyone affected.”   In the video, Mixon can be seen approaching Molitor at a table at Pickleman’s restaurant in Norman, Okla. The pair argues before Molitor pushes Mixon, then slaps his neck. Mixon then proceeds to punch Molitor with enough force to send her to the ground with her head hitting a table in the process. “It haunts me to this day. I dream about it,” Mixon said. “If I could go back, I would go back and do whatever I could to change the outcome of that situation.” Mixon did not try to justify his actions on Friday, as he did last month when he initially apologized and said he was provoked by racial slurs. Mixon described that same scenario to police after the incident in 2014. “The gay dude … he called me something,” Mixon said in the transcript of the video obtained by the Oklahoman last week . “He was like [slur]. So then I was like, you got me messed up. And then I called him a [slur]. And after that, the girl, she dropped her purse, that’s when she came in my face, pushed me, and then my glasses came off, and then, like, I had, like, jumped at her, like, to watch out. And then she came in my face. I put my head down. And she swung on me.” Mixon said the strike “shocked” him because “she hit me so hard. It felt like a dude hit me.” Mixon was charged with a misdemeanor over the incident but the charge was dropped when he agreed to a plea deal for one year of probation with cognitive-behavior counseling and 100 hours of community service. On Friday, Mixon said he wished he’d publicly addressed the situation closer to when it happened but his legal team advised him to keep quiet. “I definitely wish [the video] had come out sooner for the best of everybody,” Mixon said. “I can’t do nothing but thank Coach [Bob] Stoops for the second chance he gave me, thank Dave Boren and my teammates for sticking by me.”   Stoops, who was widely criticized for suspending Mixon for the 2014 season but allowing him to remain on the team, recently said that if the incident had occurred now, “dismissal is really the only thing that is possible.” He continued: “A young guy having an opportunity to rehabilitate and to have some kind of discipline and come back from it is really not there anymore. Hopefully that message goes down even to the high school level, that these things are just unacceptable to any degree.” On Friday, Mixon said he also hopes others might take a message from him, as well. “It’s never okay to hit a woman, never. I will preach that to anybody. It’s never okay,” he said. “Hopefully people around the world learn from my mistake and I’m willing to teach.” Molitor, meanwhile, is suing Mixon for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Mixon, who amassed 1,632 total yards and 13 touchdowns this season for the Big 12 champions, is considered the 24th-best prospect eligible for the 2017 NFL draft by Pro Football Focus. It remains unclear whether the release of the videotape will have an affect on his draft stock.

University of Oklahoma's star running back Joe Mixon said on Friday Dec. 23 that he regrets "every day" punching a woman in the face during a 2014 incident that was captured on recently-released video. (Reuters)

Oklahoma Sooners running back Joe Mixon apologized on Friday for punching a woman who fell toward a table and broke multiple bones in her face.

“I take full responsibility for what happened,” the 20-year-old said in a Friday news conference, addressing the July 2014 incident for the first time publicly since video of his actions was released last week. “It’s never okay to hit a woman. Never. I’ll preach that to anybody.”

Mixon addressed the woman, Amelia Molitor, directly, before apologizing to Sooners Coach Bob Stoops, university president David Boren, athletic director Joe Castiglione, his teammates and family.

“I’m just here to apologize to Ms. Molitor,” Mixon said before adding, “I let a lot of people down. . . . I’m here to apologize to everyone affected.”

[NFL teams wanted no part of Ray Rice after his video came out. Will they feel the same about Joe Mixon?]

In the video, Mixon can be seen approaching Molitor at a table at Pickleman’s restaurant in Norman, Okla. The pair argues before Molitor pushes Mixon, then slaps his neck. Mixon then proceeds to punch Molitor with enough force to send her to the ground with her head hitting a table in the process.

“It haunts me to this day. I dream about it,” Mixon said. “If I could go back, I would go back and do whatever I could to change the outcome of that situation.”

Mixon did not try to justify his actions on Friday, as he did last month when he initially apologized and said he was provoked by racial slurs. Mixon described that same scenario to police after the incident in 2014.

“The gay dude … he called me something,” Mixon said in the transcript of the video obtained by the Oklahoman last week. “He was like [slur]. So then I was like, you got me messed up. And then I called him a [slur]. And after that, the girl, she dropped her purse, that’s when she came in my face, pushed me, and then my glasses came off, and then, like, I had, like, jumped at her, like, to watch out. And then she came in my face. I put my head down. And she swung on me.”

Mixon said the strike “shocked” him because “she hit me so hard. It felt like a dude hit me.”

Mixon was charged with a misdemeanor over the incident but the charge was dropped when he agreed to a plea deal for one year of probation with cognitive-behavior counseling and 100 hours of community service.

On Friday, Mixon said he wished he’d publicly addressed the situation closer to when it happened but his legal team advised him to keep quiet.

“I definitely wish [the video] had come out sooner for the best of everybody,” Mixon said. “I can’t do nothing but thank Coach [Bob] Stoops for the second chance he gave me, thank Dave Boren and my teammates for sticking by me.”

[Bob Stoops’s comments on Joe Mixon show how little has changed as colleges confront assaults]

Stoops, who was widely criticized for suspending Mixon for the 2014 season but allowing him to remain on the team, recently said that if the incident had occurred now, “dismissal is really the only thing that is possible.”

He continued: “A young guy having an opportunity to rehabilitate and to have some kind of discipline and come back from it is really not there anymore. Hopefully that message goes down even to the high school level, that these things are just unacceptable to any degree.”

On Friday, Mixon said he also hopes others might take a message from him, as well.

“It’s never okay to hit a woman, never. I will preach that to anybody. It’s never okay,” he said. “Hopefully people around the world learn from my mistake and I’m willing to teach.”

Molitor, meanwhile, is suing Mixon for intentional infliction of emotional distress.

Mixon, who amassed 1,632 total yards and 13 touchdowns this season for the Big 12 champions, is considered the 24th-best prospect eligible for the 2017 NFL draft by Pro Football Focus. It remains unclear whether the release of the videotape will have an affect on his draft stock.