Cash-Strapped Gwalior Farmers Pay Kids' School Fees In Paddy Worth Rs 58,500
Cash-Strapped Gwalior Farmers Pay Kids' School Fees In Paddy Worth Rs 58,500
Cash-Strapped Gwalior Farmers Pay Kids' School Fees In Paddy Starved of cash, 15 farmers of a village in Gwalior deposited 45 quintals of paddy as their children's school fees on Saturday. The school management sold the crop at a mandi and got a cheque of Rs 58,500. Bhitarwar region of Gwalior is known as the rice bowl of Madhya Pradesh, and paddy is the main crop of the kharif season. Villages here have run out of cash, like in most rural parts of MP. TOI had earlier reported how demonetisation has revived barter economy in villages as a means for bare survival. About a month ago, people in Gadhota village, about 60 km from Gwalior, got a gentle reminder from MLB Primary School about the pending fees. They said they couldn't pay because of 'notebandi' and sought time till their crops were sold in mandis. Soon, they realised that they would not get any cash from the mandis either as they were paid in cheques. Madanlal Jatav, one of the farmers, said: "My son Sonu studies in KG. We are not getting cash from the mandis after selling our crop. Even if I get a cheque after selling my produce, there is a long procedure to deposit it in the bank, and then I have to join long queues to get my money." "Some farmers offered to pay by paddy," B L Soni, director of the school, said. With Rs 300 as monthly fees and Rs 300 as exam fees, each farmer needed to pay Rs 3,900. So every farmer contributed three quintals of paddy. The school director had to arrange for a tractor from one of the farmers to send the paddy to Bhitarwar mandi on Friday. The Rs 58,500-cheque from the mandi was deposited in the school's account on Saturday.

Starved of cash, 15 farmers of a village in Gwalior deposited 45 quintals of paddy as their children's school fees on Saturday. The school management sold the crop at a mandi and got a cheque of Rs 58,500.

ibtimes

Bhitarwar region of Gwalior is known as the rice bowl of Madhya Pradesh, and paddy is the main crop of the kharif season. Villages here have run out of cash, like in most rural parts of MP. TOI had earlier reported how demonetisation has revived barter economy in villages as a means for bare survival.

About a month ago, people in Gadhota village, about 60 km from Gwalior, got a gentle reminder from MLB Primary School about the pending fees. They said they couldn't pay because of 'notebandi' and sought time till their crops were sold in mandis. Soon, they realised that they would not get any cash from the mandis either as they were paid in cheques.

BCCL/Representational Image

Madanlal Jatav, one of the farmers, said: "My son Sonu studies in KG. We are not getting cash from the mandis after selling our crop. Even if I get a cheque after selling my produce, there is a long procedure to deposit it in the bank, and then I have to join long queues to get my money."

"Some farmers offered to pay by paddy," B L Soni, director of the school, said. With Rs 300 as monthly fees and Rs 300 as exam fees, each farmer needed to pay Rs 3,900. So every farmer contributed three quintals of paddy.

The school director had to arrange for a tractor from one of the farmers to send the paddy to Bhitarwar mandi on Friday. The Rs 58,500-cheque from the mandi was deposited in the school's account on Saturday.

Originally Published in the Times Of India