Minnesota Timberwolves Mascot Is Savage for Taking Back Playstation 4 Gift From a Young Kings Fan
Minnesota Timberwolves Mascot Is Savage for Taking Back Playstation 4 Gift From a Young Kings Fan
The Timberwolves hosted the Kings last night at the Target Center in Minneapolis' on Saturday night. Before the Kings won the contest 109-105, the T-Wolves mascot Crunch the Wolf dressed up as Santa Claus to become "Santa Crunch," participating in a fan gift giveaway at mid-court during the game's halftime intermission. In the clip above, the emcee of the giveaway and Crunch the Wolf handed out gifts to lucky young fans in the arena. The last fan standing on the court for the giveaway was a young Kings fan, who received a brand new Playstation 4. But Crunch the Wolf had other ideas to accentuate the teams hashflag #PowerOfThePack and prove to this kid that he was definitely behind enemy lines while sporting his DeMarcus Cousins jersey. Crunch the Wolf handed the Kings fan the boxed console, then mysteriously began to laugh. The mascot suddenly whispered something about the gift to the emcee, and it turned out that Crunch was going to play a joke on the kid. Crunch went straight savage mode after the mascot and immediately took the box back out of the kid's hands. The Kings fan looked so despondent after the incident, as if he was an IRL Charlie Brown on Christmas. But this act of savagery apparently didn't last for too long. Come on guys... Crunch isn't REALLY a Grinch! pic.twitter.com/N7pGmzJ4z6 Crunch the Wolf proved that he was not a Grinch stealing gifts from children on Christmas Eve after all.

The Timberwolves hosted the Kings last night at the Target Center in Minneapolis' on Saturday night. Before the Kings won the contest 109-105, the T-Wolves mascot Crunch the Wolf dressed up as Santa Claus to become "Santa Crunch," participating in a fan gift giveaway at mid-court during the game's halftime intermission.

In the clip above, the emcee of the giveaway and Crunch the Wolf handed out gifts to lucky young fans in the arena. The last fan standing on the court for the giveaway was a young Kings fan, who received a brand new Playstation 4. But Crunch the Wolf had other ideas to accentuate the teams hashflag #PowerOfThePack and prove to this kid that he was definitely behind enemy lines while sporting his DeMarcus Cousins jersey.

Crunch the Wolf handed the Kings fan the boxed console, then mysteriously began to laugh. The mascot suddenly whispered something about the gift to the emcee, and it turned out that Crunch was going to play a joke on the kid. Crunch went straight savage mode after the mascot and immediately took the box back out of the kid's hands. The Kings fan looked so despondent after the incident, as if he was an IRL Charlie Brown on Christmas.

But this act of savagery apparently didn't last for too long.

Come on guys... Crunch isn't REALLY a Grinch! pic.twitter.com/N7pGmzJ4z6 — Timberwolves (@Timberwolves) December 24, 2016

Crunch the Wolf proved that he was not a Grinch stealing gifts from children on Christmas Eve after all.