Jennifer Lawrence visits Louisville children's hospital
Jennifer Lawrence visits Louisville children's hospital
Charity Jennifer Lawrence visits Louisville children's hospital Jennifer Lawrence spread some holiday cheer at the Norton Children's Hospital.
	                        
	                        	 (Reuters) Jennifer Lawrence has visited to the Norton Children's Hospital to spread some holiday cheer. The Courier-Journal reports the Oscar-winning actress visited the hospital's patients and staff on Christmas Eve. The newspaper reported Lawrence, a Louisville native, has visited the hospital every year since 2013. But her visits are kept secret. Even some hospital staff members did not know about it. The hospital posted photos on social media showing Lawrence visiting with patients. Others posted their own social media photos, including showing Lawrence posing with a child dressed as a character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. In February, Lawrence donated $2 million to establish the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation Cardiac Intensive Care Unit.  Taylor Swift's pre-Super Bowl show might be her only in 2017   Daughter of Jamie Lynn Spears reportedly in serious condition after ATV accident   Chrissy Teigen has wardrobe malfunction at the Super Bowl   Luke Bryan nails National Anthem at Super Bowl LI

Jennifer Lawrence has visited to the Norton Children's Hospital to spread some holiday cheer.

The Courier-Journal reports the Oscar-winning actress visited the hospital's patients and staff on Christmas Eve.

The newspaper reported Lawrence, a Louisville native, has visited the hospital every year since 2013. But her visits are kept secret. Even some hospital staff members did not know about it. The hospital posted photos on social media showing Lawrence visiting with patients. Others posted their own social media photos, including showing Lawrence posing with a child dressed as a character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

In February, Lawrence donated $2 million to establish the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation Cardiac Intensive Care Unit.