How are the Obamas spending their Christmas weekend?
How are the Obamas spending their Christmas weekend?
President Barack Obama shakes hands after getting shave ice at Island Snow in Kailua, Hawaii, December 24, 2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  -- President Obama spent Christmas Eve working out at the gym, stopping for shave ice and participating in a live-action escape game with his daughters during their vacation in Hawaii. The president brought his daughters, Malia and Sasha, and friends to a place called Breakout Waikiki where they had an hour to “crack the codes” and “use your gut” to break out of an escape room. This comes after the venue tweeted at Mr. Obama on Friday, challenging him to try the game. Hey @POTUS , if you think running a country is hard, try breaking out of one of our rooms! #WambachDidIt  #BringMichelle  #ShesYourOnlyHope After their visit, Breakout Waikiki tweeted that they broke out of the escape room with only 12 seconds left. @petersterne  @KateNocera  @BuzzFeedBen it took a year to work, but we are still pretty pumped. And they broke out w/ 12 seconds left! Meanwhile, first lady Michelle Obama spent Christmas Eve surprising kids across the U.S. with a phone call. “I want to hear Santa talk,” said Austin, one of a handful of kids who called the NORAD Tracks Santa program on Saturday and found Michelle Obama on the other end of the line. Santa couldn’t get to the phone, the first lady patiently explained, “because he’s delivering all the gifts” — 3 million of them and counting, according to NORAD, as of late morning in Honolulu, where President Barack Obama and his family are on vacation. The Obamas wish you a happy holiday President Barack Obama received help from First Lady Michelle Obama in his weekly White House address, and the couple shared their holiday messag... There was a bittersweet note this year as the first lady carried out her annual Christmas ritual for the final time, taking calls from kids who wanted to know exactly how much progress Santa had made on his journey. It’ll be up to the next first lady, Melania Trump, to decide next year whether to continue the tradition. But Austin had another concern in mind: Would Santa know where to go? “I’m going to move to another house,” said Austin, joined by three other kids in North Carolina. No matter, Mrs. Obama replied. “He’s going to be able to find you no matter where you go,” she said, according to a transcript released by the White House. “That’s the special thing about Santa.” The first lady spent roughly a half-hour taking calls before joining her husband, daughters Sasha and Malia and family friends for lunch at Side Street Inn, whose greasy food and low-key atmosphere is popular among Hawaii locals and tourists alike. Then the family drove to Breakout Waikiki, a “live action” experience where visitors are “trapped” in a room and must work together to break out. But before the family fun, there was a geography lesson as the first lady updated children about Santa’s most recent locales on his gift-giving voyage: Sardinia, Malta and Hungary, to name a few. If there was a lesson for the first lady, it was a crash course in the latest hot-item gifts. A girl named Kirsten told Mrs. Obama she wanted a drone from Santa. Joshua wanted a Hot Wheels garage, while Aiden wanted a hoverboard. But it was Adilyn whose gift seemed to catch the first lady off guard. “I’m getting a hedgehog tomorrow,” Adilyn said.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

HONOLULU -- President Obama spent Christmas Eve working out at the gym, stopping for shave ice and participating in a live-action escape game with his daughters during their vacation in Hawaii.

The president brought his daughters, Malia and Sasha, and friends to a place called Breakout Waikiki where they had an hour to “crack the codes” and “use your gut” to break out of an escape room.

This comes after the venue tweeted at Mr. Obama on Friday, challenging him to try the game.

Hey @POTUS, if you think running a country is hard, try breaking out of one of our rooms! #WambachDidIt #BringMichelle #ShesYourOnlyHope — Breakout Waikiki (@BreakoutWaikiki) December 23, 2015

After their visit, Breakout Waikiki tweeted that they broke out of the escape room with only 12 seconds left.

@petersterne @KateNocera @BuzzFeedBen it took a year to work, but we are still pretty pumped. And they broke out w/ 12 seconds left! — Breakout Waikiki (@BreakoutWaikiki) December 25, 2016

Meanwhile, first lady Michelle Obama spent Christmas Eve surprising kids across the U.S. with a phone call.

“I want to hear Santa talk,” said Austin, one of a handful of kids who called the NORAD Tracks Santa program on Saturday and found Michelle Obama on the other end of the line.

Santa couldn’t get to the phone, the first lady patiently explained, “because he’s delivering all the gifts” — 3 million of them and counting, according to NORAD, as of late morning in Honolulu, where President Barack Obama and his family are on vacation.

There was a bittersweet note this year as the first lady carried out her annual Christmas ritual for the final time, taking calls from kids who wanted to know exactly how much progress Santa had made on his journey. It’ll be up to the next first lady, Melania Trump, to decide next year whether to continue the tradition.

But Austin had another concern in mind: Would Santa know where to go?

“I’m going to move to another house,” said Austin, joined by three other kids in North Carolina.

No matter, Mrs. Obama replied.

“He’s going to be able to find you no matter where you go,” she said, according to a transcript released by the White House. “That’s the special thing about Santa.”

The first lady spent roughly a half-hour taking calls before joining her husband, daughters Sasha and Malia and family friends for lunch at Side Street Inn, whose greasy food and low-key atmosphere is popular among Hawaii locals and tourists alike. Then the family drove to Breakout Waikiki, a “live action” experience where visitors are “trapped” in a room and must work together to break out.

But before the family fun, there was a geography lesson as the first lady updated children about Santa’s most recent locales on his gift-giving voyage: Sardinia, Malta and Hungary, to name a few.

If there was a lesson for the first lady, it was a crash course in the latest hot-item gifts.

A girl named Kirsten told Mrs. Obama she wanted a drone from Santa. Joshua wanted a Hot Wheels garage, while Aiden wanted a hoverboard.

But it was Adilyn whose gift seemed to catch the first lady off guard.

“I’m getting a hedgehog tomorrow,” Adilyn said.