Powerful earthquake shakes Chile on Christmas Day
Powerful earthquake shakes Chile on Christmas Day
major 7.6 magnitude earthquake jolted southern Chile on Sunday, prompting thousands to evacuate coastal areas, but no fatalities or major damage were reported in the tourism and salmon farming region. The quake disrupted Christmas celebration plans for thousands of people who fled their homes on foot, in cars and on horseback, seeking higher ground amid torrential rains in some places as sirens warned of a potential tsunami. "It was the biggest scare of our lives," said Denisse Alvarado, a resident of the southern Chile fishing town of Quellon, located on Chiloe Island, a tourist destination in Chile's Los Lagos region northwest of Patagonia. hile's National Emergency Office (ONEMI) lifted both the evacuation order and a tsunami watch three hours after the Christmas Day quake struck, telling nearly 5,000 people who had evacuated they could return to their homes. nemi said one bridge in the area was impassable and some roads were closed as crews worked to restore electricity to some 21,000 homes left without power. Officials had issued a tsunami warning earlier for areas within 1,000 km (621 miles) of the epicenter, just 39 km (24.5 miles) southwest of Quellon, off the coast. But the warning was downgraded to a tsunami watch. Eight mostly small ports in the area were closed, Chile's Navy said. The quake was felt on the other side of the Andes mountains in Argentina, in the southwestern city of Bariloche, but structural damage in areas close to the epicentre was limited, witnesses said. 🔴 AHORA: Ministro @aundurragav aterriza en #Chiloé para monitorear y supervisar trabajos de emergencia | 17:27 hrs pic.twitter.com/gE8Y7mQhOv he quake was relatively shallow, at a depth of about 34.6 km (21.5 miles), according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). "There was a lot, a lot of movement here, but besides that nothing of note, there weren't houses falling," said Alamiro Vera, owner of the Cabanas Hotel in Quellon. "It was just scary, and some things inside fell." Alvarado, 46, said she was preparing to travel to the countryside to celebrate Christmas with friends when she felt the quake and ran out of her home. "All of a sudden it shook and shook and shook," Alvarado told Reuters. "I thought the house would fall and the ground would open because it was very strong and very loud." 📢 Ante emergencia en el Sur de Chile. : ▶️Abandonar playas ▶️Privilegiar SMS o Internet ▶️Evacuar a pie Más, acá→ https://t.co/pHwFQL08hZ  pic.twitter.com/Gl2N0d1syR hough there were dozens of weaker aftershocks, damage was concentrated along a highway that runs across Chiloe Island, where traffic was shut in one section and on smaller roads and bridges. Local television showed damage to some homes, especially in Quellon and surrounding areas.

The quake was relatively shallow, at a depth of about 34.6 km (21.5 miles), according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS).

"There was a lot, a lot of movement here, but besides that nothing of note, there weren't houses falling," said Alamiro Vera, owner of the Cabanas Hotel in Quellon. "It was just scary, and some things inside fell."

Alvarado, 46, said she was preparing to travel to the countryside to celebrate Christmas with friends when she felt the quake and ran out of her home.

"All of a sudden it shook and shook and shook," Alvarado told Reuters. "I thought the house would fall and the ground would open because it was very strong and very loud."