Ranveer's Bizarre Outfit, Malaysian Students Sing SRK's Song 'Janam Janam' & More From Ent!
Ranveer's Bizarre Outfit, Malaysian Students Sing SRK's Song 'Janam Janam' & More From Ent!
Ranveer's Bizarre Outfit, Malaysian Students Sing SRK's Song 'Janam Janam' & More From Ent! 1. Ranveer Singh Does It Again, Sports A See-Through Kurta & Leaves The Trolls In A Fix! Snapped at the airport while heading out of the country for New Year’s, Ranveer was sporting a sheer long black tunic with black pants and a black cap and in no time, his fashion statement became a popular meme, courtesy Twitterati! 2. Malaysian Students Perform 'Janam Janam' At Their Convocation Ceremony, Get SRK's Stamp Of Approval! A large group of students performed his popular number Janam Janam at their 18th convocation ceremony, much to the surprise of the actor. In fact, they took to Twitter to post a video of the same and even tagged the Raees actor. 3. Post Surprise Eviction, Priyanka Jagga's Family Now Claims She Suffered A Miscarriage In BB10! While we cannot vouch for the credibility of this, his FB post read, "Unkai Show kai liya apna Bacha maar dai kya. Ab koi bhi jeet jaya BB ki sari TRP hum apnai ghar lai aai ya hi sach hai. Dwa mai Yaad . Picture Abhi Baki hai mere Dost." 4. Veteran Actor Dharmendra Discharged From Hospital, Says He Fell Sick Because Of Flight Food According to a report by Deccan Chronicle, the 81-year-old actor revealed that it was because of flight food that didn’t agree with him. “I think it was something I ate on a flight from Delhi to Jaipur that didn’t agree with me. I have to be careful about what I eat, and I usually am. The love and concern of my well-wishers always protects me from harm. So it was this time too. I’m overwhelmed by the good wishes and concern for my health. I want to let everyone know that I’m fine now and I don’t intend to go anywhere for a long time,” he said. 5. After Making A Female Reporter Uncomfortable With Awkward Comments, Vin Diesel Posts An Apology On FB Vin Diesel took to Facebook to post an apology for the same and even posted the entire video of the controversial interview. He wrote, “As you all know, I try to keep my interviews playful and fun, especially when I am in the Xander Zone... But if I offended anyone, then let me apologize, because that is never my intention.”

1. Ranveer Singh Does It Again, Sports A See-Through Kurta & Leaves The Trolls In A Fix!

Snapped at the airport while heading out of the country for New Year’s, Ranveer was sporting a sheer long black tunic with black pants and a black cap and in no time, his fashion statement became a popular meme, courtesy Twitterati!

2. Malaysian Students Perform 'Janam Janam' At Their Convocation Ceremony, Get SRK's Stamp Of Approval!

A large group of students performed his popular number Janam Janam at their 18th convocation ceremony, much to the surprise of the actor. In fact, they took to Twitter to post a video of the same and even tagged the Raees actor.

3. Post Surprise Eviction, Priyanka Jagga's Family Now Claims She Suffered A Miscarriage In BB10!

While we cannot vouch for the credibility of this, his FB post read, "Unkai Show kai liya apna Bacha maar dai kya. Ab koi bhi jeet jaya BB ki sari TRP hum apnai ghar lai aai ya hi sach hai. Dwa mai Yaad . Picture Abhi Baki hai mere Dost."

4. Veteran Actor Dharmendra Discharged From Hospital, Says He Fell Sick Because Of Flight Food

twitter

According to a report by Deccan Chronicle, the 81-year-old actor revealed that it was because of flight food that didn’t agree with him. “I think it was something I ate on a flight from Delhi to Jaipur that didn’t agree with me. I have to be careful about what I eat, and I usually am. The love and concern of my well-wishers always protects me from harm. So it was this time too. I’m overwhelmed by the good wishes and concern for my health. I want to let everyone know that I’m fine now and I don’t intend to go anywhere for a long time,” he said.

5. After Making A Female Reporter Uncomfortable With Awkward Comments, Vin Diesel Posts An Apology On FB

Vin Diesel took to Facebook to post an apology for the same and even posted the entire video of the controversial interview.

He wrote, “As you all know, I try to keep my interviews playful and fun, especially when I am in the Xander Zone... But if I offended anyone, then let me apologize, because that is never my intention.”