That's How White House Staff Played A Scary Christmas Prank On US President Barack Obama
That's How White House Staff Played A Scary Christmas Prank On US President Barack Obama
That's How White House Staff Played A Scary Christmas Prank On US President Barack Obama Two funny photographs of a Christmas prank that White House staff played on US President Barack Obama have together collected over 90,000 likes on the social network Instagram. The prank involved moving snowmen in the Rose Garden close to the the President's Oval Office. A daring act, since Barack Obama told People magazine earlier this month that he found snowmen "a little creepy" and that they had "a whole Chucky (an evil doll in Child's Play horror film series) element to them." In fact, this admission prompted Obama's wife, First Lady Michelle Obama, to tell the magazine in jest: ""We should start moving them in. We should put one in the bedroom, right by his bed." But Barack Obama "enjoyed" the prank, White House chief official photographer Pete Souza - who took the pictures - said. Last week, "some helpful staff' moved all four snowmen on display in the Rose Garden "so each one was peeking through a different window" into the President's office, Souza explained on Instagram. "Sometimes you gotta have fun," he said. Here's a picture of Obama reacting to the sight of a snowman right outside his window. Some Twitter users decided to have some fun with Souza's pictures. @WhiteHouse Too easy. pic.twitter.com/Ws14Odhno4 RT " @WhiteHouse Do you want to build a snowman? ⛄" pic.twitter.com/JJqZOaIfeu Even the US Embassy in London chimed in with some good-natured humour. When it's nearly #Christmas but you still have work to do... (pic = @petesouza ) pic.twitter.com/sMtgsUDT6O

Two funny photographs of a Christmas prank that White House staff played on US President Barack Obama have together collected over 90,000 likes on the social network Instagram. The prank involved moving snowmen in the Rose Garden close to the the President's Oval Office.

A daring act, since Barack Obama told People magazine earlier this month that he found snowmen "a little creepy" and that they had "a whole Chucky (an evil doll in Child's Play horror film series) element to them."

Pete Souza/Instagram

In fact, this admission prompted Obama's wife, First Lady Michelle Obama, to tell the magazine in jest: ""We should start moving them in. We should put one in the bedroom, right by his bed."

But Barack Obama "enjoyed" the prank, White House chief official photographer Pete Souza - who took the pictures - said.

Last week, "some helpful staff' moved all four snowmen on display in the Rose Garden "so each one was peeking through a different window" into the President's office, Souza explained on Instagram.

"Sometimes you gotta have fun," he said. Here's a picture of Obama reacting to the sight of a snowman right outside his window.

Pete Souza/Instagram

Some Twitter users decided to have some fun with Souza's pictures.

RT "@WhiteHouse Do you want to build a snowman? ⛄" pic.twitter.com/JJqZOaIfeu — mnrrnt (@Mnrrnt) December 17, 2016

Even the US Embassy in London chimed in with some good-natured humour.