In search of the dream greenhouse: how Instagram has given glasshouses a new life
In search of the dream greenhouse: how Instagram has given glasshouses a new life
often think of my grandfathers’ greenhouses. One was where I first learnt that food could be grown, while the other helped to plant the seeds of my green fingers in adulthood. I can still remember their distinct smells: the scent of geranium leaves and tomato feed will transport me back to being too short to peer over the workbenches where soil and seedlings reigned, looking up at bunches of small, bitter little grapes that my maternal grandfather would take delight in daring us to eat. The other, a beautifully shambolic wooden-framed glasshouse, held more tropical fare: orchids, succulents. It was a warm haven of quiet chaos and things growing, even forgotten about, their condensating leaves pushing up against the cold of the outside. There are others, too: the earthy warmth of a first school trip to University of Oxford Botanic Garden, a bus ride to the tunnel of glasshouses that begin Gothenburg’s sprawling Botanical Garden. In October at the Jardin des Plantes, an achingly elegant Parisian park, I spent a sunny afternoon feeling transported back in time in the historical glasshouse. ore recently, I have started volunteering at Brockwell Park Community Greenhouses in south London. Once part of the Brockwell Hall estate, and fittingly created by 19th-century glass merchant John Blades Esq, these greenhouses now host everything from passage-blocking monstera and naranjilla to workshops for groups of local children. My affection for the humble greenhouse may stem from the fact that, as a small-space gardener, the closest I can get is a cold-frame (and I haven’t yet sacrificed enough room on the balcony for one of those). But I suspect there may be something more primal, more universal in it than that: greenhouses offer warmth and the optimism of new life when plants outside are dying down, settling into dormancy as the ground hardens and frosts gloss everything white. For those without the luxury of flower beds, the internet offers an outlet. Sheffield-based photographers India Hobson and Magnus Edmondson have amassed more than 100,000 followers on Instagram over the past year for their sumptuous images of greenhouses taken across Britain and Europe, posted under the name of their collective, Haarkon (the middle name of Magnus’s brother). he pair nurtured a love of greenhouses through Hobson’s need to travel for work. As an editorial photographer, she says: “We find ourselves in lots of different places and we don’t want to waste time, so we’ll visit attractions while we’re there: National Trust properties, public spaces and greenhouses. “It felt like we needed somewhere to put the pictures, because if we liked them, then someone else might like them too.” heir hunch was a good one: the average post by Haarkon, whether of a cluttered domestic greenhouse in Robin Hood’s Bay or the daunting, misty expanse of Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, will glean around 6,000 likes. Greenhouse-hunting has become a full-time hobby. There is a list, hours spent tracking them down on Google Earth, the satellite search engine. The couple trawl the forums of the British Cactus and Succulent Society to find greenhouse custodians to visit – sometimes, if they don’t hear back on email, they have just turned up. “Usually we’ve been rewarded,” says Hobson. Their staple is the trusty stately home, Edmondson explains: “All of them would have had greenhouses or kitchen gardens, so you can pretty much guarantee that large, old property will have an orangery or something. We’re usually quite confident when we go there.” Hobson adds that a lot of properties, and most visitors, don’t realise what they’re missing: “I think people go to see the wallpaper and the architraving, but we go first and foremost to get in a greenhouse.” But while the opulent structures of Kew and the concrete brutalism of the Barbican’s conservatory hold appeal for Haarkon, it’s the smaller, more domestic greenhouses that they go to the greatest lengths for. “I’ve never managed to get into Meersbrook Walled Garden, and that’s down my road,” Hobson says. “South London Botanical Institute is another. To have something that small, it’s an achievable goal. Kew’s great, but something that’s essentially a lean-to with a bit of glass – that’s realistic.” The couple have filled up their home with greenery (“There are very few things in our house aside from plants”) but don’t have a garden. Like their thousands of followers, looking at greenhouses provides a means of engaging with horticulture until the real deal becomes possible. hile Haarkon set the standard for greenhouse photography on Instagram, a community has sprung up around the art of appreciating the glasshouse. Nicole Clark, a designer and shopkeeper in Marsden, Yorkshire, invented the “I have this thing with glasshouses” hashtag (a means of finding and collecting photographs from different sources on Instagram) while on holiday in Swansea in 2014, and it has since been used on nearly 900 photographs – most of them celebrating the greenhouse. “It wasn’t started as a project of any kind,” she explains, “it was just a travel journal of sorts. Not quite Monty Don’s Around the World in 80 Gardens – although a greenhouse version of that would be awesome – but a way of finding other great spots to visit, and it’s taken on a life of its own.” She sums up the appeal of poring over reams of greenhouses through a phone screen as “pure majestic escapism”. “It’s a fusion of both botanicals and architecture, an odd but extremely satisfying mix of the organic and engineered which I think appeals to a broad range of the Instagram demographic. “To me, they are a universal language in some ways: the fusion of many cultures and countries all under one beautiful glass roof.” For those who have them, greenhouses offer salvation from the ravages of winter, but also from the frenetic pace of life. There is much, perhaps, to be told about a person from their greenhouse: it is telling that my grandfather who kept the tidier greenhouse was an accountant, while the other had an affinity for hanging on to junk mail. Hobson tells me, with glee, about the two tiny greenhouses to be found in Henry Moore’s garden in Hertfordshire: “His cacti collection was gorgeous – and it’s not mentioned at all.” Greenhouses, and those things that are lovingly cultivated inside them, can reflect a different side of the person responsible. find it interesting that both Nicole Clark ( alfiesstudio on Instagram ) and Haarkon started their greenhouse appreciation as a way of sharing their adventures and discovering new places to go.  In doing so, they are encouraging a whole new generation – one that is rarely blessed with growing space – to embrace horticulture’s museums, to tack a visit to a botanical garden on to a city-break. Because while it’s one thing to enjoy a photograph with the swipe of a smartphone, it’s quite another to experience the sweltering growth of a greenhouse itself. As Hobson says: “There’s a whole world out there and there are some spectacular things we want to see. Like, we’ve seen it on Instagram a thousand times, but it just doesn’t compare to real life.” For more gardening trends, follow Alice on Instagram .

I often think of my grandfathers’ greenhouses. One was where I first learnt that food could be grown, while the other helped to plant the seeds of my green fingers in adulthood.

I can still remember their distinct smells: the scent of geranium leaves and tomato feed will transport me back to being too short to peer over the workbenches where soil and seedlings reigned, looking up at bunches of small, bitter little grapes that my maternal grandfather would take delight in daring us to eat.

The other, a beautifully shambolic wooden-framed glasshouse, held more tropical fare: orchids, succulents. It was a warm haven of quiet chaos and things growing, even forgotten about, their condensating leaves pushing up against the cold of the outside.

There are others, too: the earthy warmth of a first school trip to University of Oxford Botanic Garden, a bus ride to the tunnel of glasshouses that begin Gothenburg’s sprawling Botanical Garden. In October at the Jardin des Plantes, an achingly elegant Parisian park, I spent a sunny afternoon feeling transported back in time in the historical glasshouse.