The 26 clichés of a middle-class Christmas
The 26 clichés of a middle-class Christmas

h, the Christmas period – a two week extravaganza in which no festive feat can be too middle-class, from hanging wreaths hand-woven by Belgian nuns to ditching age-old family recipes in favour of Nigella’s gourmet fare. Are you guilty of spending more time arranging the present-unwrapping schedule than actually opening them? Have you stocked up on enough prosciutto and delicately spiced manchego to feed a small army? Frankly, indulging in these seasonal idiosyncrasies is one of the holidays’ greatest gifts. See how many middle-class festive signifiers you can tick off with our guide below... 1. “I’ve kept the receipt” Middle-class people feel secure buying gifts at John Lewis or M&S because of their “excellent returns policy”. They often blurt out “take it back if you don’t like it” before the recipient has even seen what it is. 2. Obsessing over Ocado delivery slots When exactly will “Dave in Onion Van” arrive with your metric tonne of pampered metropolitan groceries? If you can’t get the precise time and day you want, it will “ruin Christmas”. 3. A £50 wreath on the front door Shows off how classily Christmassy you are to the neighbours, see. So ye olde Dickensian. Oh bugger, someone’s nicked it in the night. 4. Tastefully twee decorations iddle-class people adore decorations that look generically old-fashioned. See anything by Cath Kidston, Emma Bridgewater, Orla Kiely or notonthehighstreet.com . Anything made from tweed, twigs, dried fruit, tree bark, hand-blown glass or scraps of old fabric. Anything described as “shabby chic”, “vintage-style” or “charmingly retro”. 5. Agonising over when and how to open presents Before or after lunch? All at once or in little batches? Take it in turns? Big or small ones first? Save some for Boxing Day? Do some on Christmas Eve like the Scandinavians? Make thank-you lists as you go along or keep gift tags in a little pile? Way to add stress and drain the day of fun, guys. 6. Provenance of the turkey What variety was it? Where’s the farm? What was it fed? How was it hung and plucked? Can I see its birth certificate, bank statement and results of a full medical? 7. Tipping etiquette bviously we tip the cleaner and gardener. Such troopers. But do we do the postman, darling? How much? What if it’s not our regular one? What if the paperboy, milkman and binmen get jealous? What do I write on the envelope if I don’t know his name? Which I don’t because I only feign interest once a year... 8. “Cold cuts” The very phrase is middle classness in meat form. 9. “Let’s go for a bracing walk” The upper classes call this “a shoot”. The working classes call it “staggering home pissed”. The middle-classes think it’s all lovely, ruddy-cheeked and wholesome. 10. Putting stuff in champagne Because champagne is famously rubbish (it isn’t), hosts think they have to “improve it” by “reinventing” it as a “festive cocktail”. This usually involves lobbing fruit, syrup or liqueurs into it, thus making it not nearly as nice. 11. Recycling everything he tree. The wrapping paper. The leftover food. The shameful number of clinking empty bottles. The elderly relatives. The flatulent pet. 12. Brunch Not a meal the rest of the year but suddenly at Christmas, brunch becomes a thing. Mainly because the middle classes can’t bear to call it what it is (late breakfast after a lie-in) so attempt to give it a glamorous socialite sheen. Usually involves smoked salmon. 13. Lists and spreadsheets One for giving and receiving cards . Another for buying presents. Maybe a third for planning meals and chores. Yep, let’s turn Christmas into a massive work project so it doesn’t feel like a holiday. 14. Lindor balls So much classier than Quality Street, yah? 15. Oversharing in cards Here’s a family portrait that we agonised over and had several arguments about! Here’s an overlong letter with all our dull “news”! It’s a wonder the middle classes have any friends at all, frankly. 16. Board games Let’s turn the TV off, make everyone put down their new gadgets and books and reluctantly play a board game that will result in a massive row. 17. “Shall we do goose or duck this year for a change?” o. Next! 18. Caring about Secret Santa Middle-class office workers wrack their brains trying to come up with the perfect witty, thoughtful, quirky gift for a virtual stranger - even though literally everyone else will shrug and give novelty socks, Ferrero Rocher or a mug with an unfunny rude logo. 19. Solely watching the BBC Well, there’s no need for ghastly ITV now that Downton’s finished. 20. Midnight Mass Carols by candlelight. How magical! Well, apart from the post-pubbers drunkenly yelling Ding Dong Merrily On High and the paralytic student vomiting into the font. Maybe we’ll do the 11am Christmas Day service next year instead, to show off our beautiful (if bored) grandchildren. 21. Cooking everything with a twist iddle-class cooks love to over-elaborate. Let’s brine the turkey or add star anise to it. Let’s throw clementines, maple syrup and dried cranberries into literally everything. Let’s roast potatoes with goose fat, sage and semolina. Sprouts? You simply must have them with pancetta, chestnuts, balsamic vinegar and unicorn’s tears. NB: “It’s a Nigella/Jamie/Heston/Yotam recipe” is not an acceptable excuse. 22. Presents for the little darlings’ teachers If we don’t give them anything, they might mark down Tarquin’s homework next term. Chocs or booze are unhealthy, though. How about clubbing together with Jocasta’s parents and getting a gift card from Liberty? Or giving a jar of your home-made quince jam? Teachers love quince, right? 23. Turkey soups or risottos landest, beigest, most joyless, obsessively-using-up-leftovers meals ever. Much better off with a turkey curry or doorstep sandwich. 24. Having a “colour scheme” for gift-wrapping Plain brown parcel paper brightened up by chic ribbon this year. Again. 25. Scented candles ive them. Receive them. Light them. Why? Because they’re expensive, unnecessary and make your house smell like an aromatherapist’s knicker drawer. See also those “post-poo drops” to cover up sprouty, gouty bowel movements. 26. Finishing Christmas abruptly That’s enough fun now. Let’s move on, tear everything down and have a miserable dry January out of guilt.

Ah, the Christmas period – a two week extravaganza in which no festive feat can be too middle-class, from hanging wreaths hand-woven by Belgian nuns to ditching age-old family recipes in favour of Nigella’s gourmet fare.

Are you guilty of spending more time arranging the present-unwrapping schedule than actually opening them? Have you stocked up on enough prosciutto and delicately spiced manchego to feed a small army?

Frankly, indulging in these seasonal idiosyncrasies is one of the holidays’ greatest gifts. See how many middle-class festive signifiers you can tick off with our guide below...

1. “I’ve kept the receipt”

Middle-class people feel secure buying gifts at John Lewis or M&S because of their “excellent returns policy”. They often blurt out “take it back if you don’t like it” before the recipient has even seen what it is.

2. Obsessing over Ocado delivery slots

When exactly will “Dave in Onion Van” arrive with your metric tonne of pampered metropolitan groceries? If you can’t get the precise time and day you want, it will “ruin Christmas”.

3. A £50 wreath on the front door

Shows off how classily Christmassy you are to the neighbours, see. So ye olde Dickensian. Oh bugger, someone’s nicked it in the night.