Hear Chance the Rapper & Jeremih's Surprise Mixtape, 'Merry Christmas Lil Mama'
Hear Chance the Rapper & Jeremih's Surprise Mixtape, 'Merry Christmas Lil Mama'
Hear Chance the Rapper & Jeremih's Surprise Mixtape, 'Merry Christmas Lil Mama'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In the middle of the night, Chance the Rapper and Jeremih slipped a surprise Christmas mixtape under the tree. Released in the wee hours of the morning Thursday (Dec. 22), features comedian Hannibal Buress (“All the Way”), Noname (“The Tragedy”) and Lud Foe (“I Shoulda Left You”). The Chicago rappers dedicated the mixtape to the Windy City.  The nine festive tracks also include “Stranger at the Table” -- with a riff on the Jackson 5’s “I Want You Back” -- "Snowed In," "I'm Your Santa" and "Chi Town Christmas." Merry Christmas Lil MaMa https://soundcloud.com/chancetherapper/sets/merry-christmas-lil-mama-jeremih-chance A photo posted by Thumpy Johnson (@jeremih) on  Chance’s first release since and Jeremih’s first since , the project appears to have been recorded recently: Jeremih announced the mixtape on Instagram with a photo from the studio that includes Monday's copy of alongside Chance's signature "3" hat and his own "Late Nights" hat. Listen to here:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Chance the Rapper performs onÂ Saturday Night LiveÂ on Dec. 17, 2016 in New York City.

In the middle of the night, Chance the Rapper and Jeremih slipped a surprise Christmas mixtape under the tree.

Released in the wee hours of the morning Thursday (Dec. 22), Merry Christmas Lil Mama features comedian Hannibal Buress (“All the Way”), Noname (“The Tragedy”) and Lud Foe (“I Shoulda Left You”).

The Chicago rappers dedicated the mixtape to the Windy City.

The nine festive tracks also include “Stranger at the Table” -- with a riff on the Jackson 5’s “I Want You Back” -- "Snowed In," "I'm Your Santa" and "Chi Town Christmas."

Merry Christmas Lil MaMa https://soundcloud.com/chancetherapper/sets/merry-christmas-lil-mama-jeremih-chance A photo posted by Thumpy Johnson (@jeremih) on Dec 21, 2016 at 11:42pm PST

Chance’s first release since Coloring Book and Jeremih’s first since Late Nights: Europe, the project appears to have been recorded recently: Jeremih announced the mixtape on Instagram with a photo from the studio that includes Monday's copy of The Chicago Tribune alongside Chance's signature "3" hat and his own "Late Nights" hat.

Listen to Merry Christmas Lil' Mama here: