Chile earthquake: Christmas Day quake forces thousands to evacuate coastal areas



Chile earthquake: Christmas Day quake forces thousands to evacuate coastal areas

Updated

Southern Chile has been struck by a powerful magnitude-7.6 earthquake, prompting thousands to evacuate coastal areas in a region known for tourism and salmon farming.

Key points: Quake cuts power and damages roads, but structural damage limited

No fatalities reported

Tsunami warning cancelled but residents urged to be alert

No fatalities were reported from the Christmas Day quake, and officials lifted a tsunami warning earlier issued for areas within 1,000 kilometres of the quake's epicentre, southwest of Puerto Montt.

Chile's National Emergency Office (Onemi) lifted both the evacuation order and a tsunami watch three hours after the quake struck, telling nearly 5,000 people who had evacuated they could return to their homes.

Onemi said one bridge in the area was impassable as crews worked to restore electricity to 21,000 homes without power.

Officials had issued a tsunami warning earlier for areas within 1,000 km of the epicentre, but the warning was downgraded to a tsunami watch. Eight mostly small ports in the area were closed, Chile's navy said.

The quake was felt on the other side of the Andes mountains in Argentina, but structural damage in areas close to the epicentre was limited, according to witnesses.

"There was a lot, a lot of movement here, but besides that nothing of note, there weren't houses falling," said Alamiro Vera, owner of the Cabanas Hotel in the southern Chile fishing town of Quellon.

"It was just scary, and some things inside fell."

'Biggest scare of our lives'

The quake disrupted Christmas plans for thousands of people who fled their homes on foot, in cars and on horseback, seeking higher ground amid torrential rains as sirens warned about the potential tsunami.

Quellon resident Denisse Alvarado was preparing to travel to the countryside to celebrate Christmas with friends when she felt the quake and ran out of her home.

"All of a sudden it shook and shook and shook," Ms Alvarado, 46, said.

"I thought the house would fall and the ground would open because it was very strong and very loud.

"It was the biggest scare of our lives."

Though there were dozens of weaker aftershocks, damage was concentrated along a highway that runs across Chiloe Island, where traffic was shut down in one section and on smaller roads and bridges.

Local television showed damage to some homes, especially in Quellon and surrounding areas.

Quake strikes salmon zone

The area hit by Sunday's quake was south of Valdivia, Chile, where 1,655 people died in a 1960 quake ranked by the Unites State Geological Survey as the most powerful recorded in Chile.

The region is home to several industrial salmon farms.

An official with Chile's National Fish and Aquaculture Service said several companies had evacuated employees and were evaluating their facilities for possible damage.

The quake's depth was about 34.6 kilometres, the US Geological Survey (USGS) said.

Chile has a long history of deadly quakes, including a 8.8-magnitude quake in 2010 off the south-central coast, which also triggered a tsunami that devastated coastal towns.

Reuters

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, earth-sciences, chile, argentina

First posted