Santa Claus Sightings From Around The World



A man wearing a Santa Claus costume walks on the wall of the Old City of Jerusalem, Dec. 23, 2016, ahead of the Christmas holidays. Atef Safadi/EPA

Roray Kam dressed as Santa Claus enjoys the surf on his stand-up paddle board, Dec. 22, 2016 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Joe Raedle/Getty Images

A diver in a Santa Claus costume swims with sardines at the Coex Aquarium, Dec. 24, 2016 in Seoul, South Korea. Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images

A man dressed as Santa Claus rides a Christmas decorated vehicle in Jiyeh, south Lebanon, Dec. 23, 2016. Aziz Taher/Reuters

A member of the "Sibspas" Siberian search and rescue group dressed as Father Frost, the Russian equivalent of Santa Claus, climbs the rock named "The Ded" (the Grandfather) at the Stolby national nature reserve, Dec. 22, 2016. Ilya Naymushin/Reuters

A Palestinian protester dressed as Santa Claus joins other protesters in front of an Israeli checkpoint in the West Bank city of Bethlehem, Dec. 23, 2016. Nasser Nasser/AP Photo

Traffic police officer Marco Chira, dressed in a Santa Claus costume, performs tricks on his moving motorcycle outside the government palace in downtown Lima, Peru, Dec. 20, 2016. An annual holiday ritual, the capital's traffic cops dress as Santa and his helpers. Martin Mejia/AP Photo

Santa Claus speaks to 19-month-old Maya during a Christmas show for children of Romanian military families, in Bucharest, Romania, Dec. 13, 2016. The Christmas party was held at the grand Palace of the National Military Circle in Bucharest. Vadim Ghirda/AP Photo

A man dressed as Santa Claus delivers a fish to a group of Royal Penguins at the animal exhibition park Marineland in Antibes, southern France, Dec. 21, 2016. Sebastien Nogier/EPA

A window cleaner dressed as Santa Claus and another as a reindeer clean the windows of the DECKS Tokyo Beach commercial facility building at dusk in Tokyo, Japan, Dec. 21, 2016. Kimimasa Mayama/EPA

A Santa Claus wishes travelers a pleasant journey at Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, Netherlands, Dec. 20, 2016. Koen Van Weel/EPA

A man dressed as Santa Claus gestures as he arrives in the garden of the presidential palace in Abidjan on Dec. 21, 2016 to distribute gifts to 3000 children during a Christmas event organized by the Foundation Children of Africa. Sia Kambousia/AFP/Getty Images

Participants dressed as Santa Claus attend the XXVII Car Festival and ride downhill in a homemade cart in the Santa Elena Municipality, near Medellin, Colombia, on Dec. 18, 2016. Raul Arboledar/AFP/Getty Images

Fairfax County Firefighter Grant Higginbotham plays the part of Santa Claus and gets a hug while helping fellow firefighters to distribute toys to children at the Culmore Support Center, Dec. 22, 2016 in Falls Church, Va. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

Santa Claus walks on the sidelines during a game between the Washington Redskins and the Carolina Panthers at FedExField on Dec. 19, 2016 in Landover, Md. Rob Carr/Getty Images

Santas arrive for a "Santa Claus casting" at the job placement centre in Rostock, Germany, Dec. 7, 2016. DPA/Newscom

Santa Claus visits the Favela da Mare, one of the largest favelas in Rio de Janeiro, where he walked through the streets and then distributed toys to the children Dec. 17, 2016. Fabio Teixeira/Polaris

A man dressed as Santa Claus rows his boat on Venice's Grand Canal, Dec. 17, 2016. Manuel Silvestri/Polaris

A man dressed as Santa Claus drives a reindeer-drawn sleigh in Rovaniemi, Finland Dec. 15, 2016. Pawel Kopczynski/Reuters

Israeli-Arab Issa Kassissieh wears a Santa Claus costume as he rides a camel during an annual Christmas tree distribution in Jerusalem's Old City, Dec. 20, 2016. Amir Cohen/Reuters

A man in a Santa Claus costume rides a pedicab along Oxford Street in London, Britain Dec. 18, 2016. Neil Hall/Reuters

Pope Francis talks with a man dressed as Santa Claus at the end of a special audience with Vatican workers in the Paul VI Audience Hall at the Vatican Dec. 22, 2016. Tony Gentile/Reuters

Stefan Persch, dressed as Santa Claus, speaks with the reindeer in an enclosure in Niederhausen, Germany, Nov. 14, 2016. He and his wife Sonja Persch-Jost now have nine of the cloven-hoofed animals. Harald Tittel/Newscom

1. A firefighter dressed as Santa Claus participates in the high-octane fundraiser, crossing the Thames River by zip wire for the first time ever, on Dec. 2, 2016, in London. The unique event is being put on in partnership with the London Fire Brigade as part of its 150th anniversary celebrations and has been organized by deputy assistant commissioner Andy Roe to thank Evelina London for the treatment the hospital gave his son. Mikael Buck/REX/Shutterstock

Larry Jefferson, playing the role of Santa, smiles with Jack Kivel, of Prior Lake, for photos at the Santa Experience at Mall of America, in Bloomington, Minnesota, Dec. 1, 2016. The nation's largest mall is hosting its first-ever black Santa Claus this weekend. Leila Navidi/Star Tribune via AP Photo

A diver dressed as Santa Claus feeds fish during the annual Christmas event at Tokyo's Sunshine International Aquarium in Tokyo, Dec. 6, 2016. Shizuo Kambayashi/AP Photo

A surfer dressed as Santa gets to his feet as he braves the cold seas and near flat waves during the annual Surfing Santa, part of the Santa Run and Surf 2016 at Fistral Beach in Newquay, on Dec. 4, 2016, in Cornwall, England. Now in its third year, the Santa Surf and fun run is organized by Fistral Surf Center and Cornwall Hospice Care and raises funds for local charities. Matt Cardy/Getty Images

Runners dressed as Santa Claus take part in the 3rd edition of the "Athens Santa Claus Run" in central Athens, on Dec. 4, 2016. Angelos Tzortzinis/Getty Images

The play "La Villa de Santa Claus" was presented at the Cultural Forum of Chapultepec, on Dec. 3, 2016, in Mexico. Jessica Esponosa Sanchez/Newscom

The Radio City Rockettes join Santa Claus at Serendipity 3 to introduce Santa's 30th anniversary peanut butter & jelly frozen hot chocolate, on Nov. 29, 2016, in New York City. Lewis/Starpix/REX/Shutterstock

French adventurer Captain Remi Le Calvez, dressed as a Santa Claus, starts a trip as a hitchhiker in Paris, on Dec. 6, 2016, to travel to Rovaniemi in central Lapland, northern Finland. Benoit Tessier/Reuters

Skiers and snowboarders dressed as Santa participate in a charity run down a slope at Sunday River Ski Resort in Newry, Maine, on Dec. 4, 2016. Joel Page/Reuters

People dressed as Santa Claus ride motorcycles on the street in Gdansk, Poland, on Dec. 4, 2016. Agencja Gazeta/Jan Rusek/via Reuters

Members of the "Skipper" yacht club dressed as Ded Moroz, the Russian equivalent of Santa Claus, and his granddaughter Snegurochka (Snow Maiden) sail a yacht along the Yenisei River while marking the end of the sailboat season, with the air temperature at about minus 5.8 degrees Fahrenheit, outside the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, Russia, Nov. 21, 2016. Ilya Naymushin/Reuters

A man dressed as Santa Claus crosses the Limmat River on his stand-up paddle in Zurich, Switzerland, on Dec. 4, 2016. Arnd Wiegmann/Reuters