Billboard's Top 10 Most Popular Holiday Songs
Billboard's Top 10 Most Popular Holiday Songs
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Billboard's Top 10 Most Popular Holiday Songs  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Certain songs become ubiquitous every December, especially if you're tuning into one of around 160 stations in the U.S. that play holiday music 24/7 this time of year (or stepping into just about any retail destination). Some songs, though, become even more inescapable than others -- a phenomenon that eventually led to the genesis of 's Holiday Songs chart in 2011. Below are the 10 most popular songs in that chart's history. Chances are, you've already heard all of them at least a dozen times this season, proving that holiday hits are truly the gifts that keep on giving (to songwriters, at least!). Since 1984, George Michael 's onward-and-upward Christmas anthem has been a seasonal favorite, earning covers by everyone from Taylor Swift to Jimmy Eat World . More than 50 years in, this 1963 Andy Williams staple shows no signs of fatigue: It's currently at No. 6 on the Holiday Songs chart. "I want you to take down a song I wrote over the weekend. Not only is it the best song I ever wrote, it's the best song anybody ever wrote!" is what Tin Pan Alley legend Irving Berlin is reported to have told his secretary in 1940, just before writing "White Christmas" -- arguably as important to the American songbook as "God Bless America," which Berlin, a secular Jewish-American immigrant, also wrote. The song rose to prominence thanks to Crosby's performance in , which earned it an Academy Award for best original song in 1943 and has been popular ever since: According to , it's the best-selling single of all time. The medley of "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen" and "Carol of the Bells" was first released on the Trans-Siberian Orchestra's 1996 debut -- since then, they've become a holiday powerhouse. Burl Ives first sang the song as Sam the Snowman, narrator of the beloved 1964 stop-motion classic -- since then, it's become one of country music's most-covered Christmas tunes. The Spanglish single has become one of the world's most popular Christmas songs -- no surprise given its endless sing-a-long potential. The country classic, featuring the guitar of Nashville legend Hank Garland, was actually written by two ad men (think Don Draper, but in Atlantic City) in 1956 -- which might explain how catchy it is. The legendary crooner found one of his most enduring hits in this Mel Torme composition -- originally written, according to Torme, as a mind-over-matter attempt to stay cool during a stifling summer day. At just 13 years old, Brenda Lee instantly became a rockabilly legend with the recording of this Christmas party classic -- it's even featured in seminal holiday film as Macaulay Culkin's pretend party soundtrack. M.C. is the place to be, especially around the holidays -- "All I Want for Christmas Is You" takes the top spot, and is so popular that it re-enters the Billboard Hot 100 every December.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mariah Carey performs during a pre-tape performance for NBC's Christmas tree lighting at Rockefeller Center on Nov. 27, 2012 in New York City. Â

Certain songs become ubiquitous every December, especially if you're tuning into one of around 160 stations in the U.S. that play holiday music 24/7 this time of year (or stepping into just about any retail destination). Some songs, though, become even more inescapable than others -- a phenomenon that eventually led to the genesis of Billboard's Holiday Songs chart in 2011.

Below are the 10 most popular songs in that chart's history. Chances are, you've already heard all of them at least a dozen times this season, proving that holiday hits are truly the gifts that keep on giving (to songwriters, at least!).

10. "Last Christmas," Wham!

Since 1984, George Michael's onward-and-upward Christmas anthem has been a seasonal favorite, earning covers by everyone from Taylor Swift to Jimmy Eat World.

9. "It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year," Andy Williams

More than 50 years in, this 1963 Andy Williams staple shows no signs of fatigue: It's currently at No. 6 on the Holiday Songs chart.

8. "White Christmas," Bing Crosby

"I want you to take down a song I wrote over the weekend. Not only is it the best song I ever wrote, it's the best song anybody ever wrote!" is what Tin Pan Alley legend Irving Berlin is reported to have told his secretary in 1940, just before writing "White Christmas" -- arguably as important to the American songbook as "God Bless America," which Berlin, a secular Jewish-American immigrant, also wrote. The song rose to prominence thanks to Crosby's performance in Holiday Inn, which earned it an Academy Award for best original song in 1943 and has been popular ever since: According to Guinness World Records, it's the best-selling single of all time.

7. "Christmas Eve (Sarajevo 12/24)," Trans-Siberian Orchestra

The medley of "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen" and "Carol of the Bells" was first released on the Trans-Siberian Orchestra's 1996 debut -- since then, they've become a holiday powerhouse.

6. "A Holly Jolly Christmas," Burl Ives

Burl Ives first sang the song as Sam the Snowman, narrator of the beloved 1964 stop-motion classic Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer -- since then, it's become one of country music's most-covered Christmas tunes.

5. "Feliz Navidad," Jose Feliciano

The Spanglish single has become one of the world's most popular Christmas songs -- no surprise given its endless sing-a-long potential.

4. "Jingle Bell Rock," Bobby Helms

The country classic, featuring the guitar of Nashville legend Hank Garland, was actually written by two ad men (think Don Draper, but in Atlantic City) in 1956 -- which might explain how catchy it is.

3. "The Christmas Song (Merry Christmas to You)," Nat King Cole

The legendary crooner found one of his most enduring hits in this Mel Torme composition -- originally written, according to Torme, as a mind-over-matter attempt to stay cool during a stifling summer day.

2. "Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree," Brenda Lee

At just 13 years old, Brenda Lee instantly became a rockabilly legend with the recording of this Christmas party classic -- it's even featured in seminal holiday film Home Alone as Macaulay Culkin's pretend party soundtrack.

1. "All I Want for Christmas Is You," Mariah Carey

M.C. is the place to be, especially around the holidays -- "All I Want for Christmas Is You" takes the top spot, and is so popular that it re-enters the Billboard Hot 100 every December.

Billboard's Top 10 Holiday Songs are based on actual performance on Billboard's weekly Holiday 100 chart – which encompasses airplay, sales and streaming data – between its Dec. 10, 2011, inception and the chart dated Jan. 9, 2016 (the last list compiled during the 2015-16 holiday season). Songs are ranked based on cumulative chart points earned over the ranking's five-year history.