Pak Defense Minister Threatens To Nuke Israel After Reading A Fake News Article!
Pak Defense Minister Threatens To Nuke Israel After Reading A Fake News Article!
Pak Defense Minister Threatens To Nuke Israel After Reading A Fake News Article! Pakistan's defense minister, Khawaja Muhammad Asif, lashed out Israel in a Twitter post on Friday after a false report that Israel had threatened Pakistan with nuclear weapons. Israeli def min threatens nuclear retaliation presuming pak role in Syria against Daesh.Israel forgets Pakistan is a Nuclear state too AH The story on which he based on his fierce, and misplaced salvo was from awdnews.com, with the typo-ridden headline  'If Pakistan send ground troops to Syria on any pretext, we will destroy this country with a nuclear attack'. The story was evidently fake, even getting the Israeli defense minister's name wrong @KhawajaMAsif The statement attributed to fmr Def Min Yaalon re Pakistan was never said The Israeli defense ministry responded on Twitter to say the report was fictitious. Asif did not respond to the Israelis on Twitter, but the damage had been done, his message retweeted hundreds of times.

Pakistan's defense minister, Khawaja Muhammad Asif, lashed out Israel in a Twitter post on Friday after a false report that Israel had threatened Pakistan with nuclear weapons.

Israeli def min threatens nuclear retaliation presuming pak role in Syria against Daesh.Israel forgets Pakistan is a Nuclear state too AH — Khawaja M. Asif (@KhawajaMAsif) December 23, 2016

The story on which he based on his fierce, and misplaced salvo was from awdnews.com, with the typo-ridden headline 'If Pakistan send ground troops to Syria on any pretext, we will destroy this country with a nuclear attack'.

The story was evidently fake, even getting the Israeli defense minister's name wrong

@KhawajaMAsif The statement attributed to fmr Def Min Yaalon re Pakistan was never said — Ministry of Defense (@Israel_MOD) December 24, 2016

The Israeli defense ministry responded on Twitter to say the report was fictitious. Asif did not respond to the Israelis on Twitter, but the damage had been done, his message retweeted hundreds of times.