Mavis Staples on Her Kennedy Center Honor and Fist-Bumping James Taylor
Mavis Staples on Her Kennedy Center Honor and Fist-Bumping James Taylor
Mavis Staples, the 77-year-old gospel and R&B singer, knows the White House well, having attended numerous cultural events there during the Obama administration. But this last one, a reception for the recipients of the Kennedy Center Honors, was extra special. Ms. Staples, whose music career began as a child at the dawn of the civil rights movement with her family band, the Staple Singers, was recognized this month for her lifetime achievement at the 39th annual Kennedy Center Honors event. “That was the most beautiful thing that could’ve happened for me,” Ms. Staples said in an interview upon returning home to the South Side of Chicago. “I’m just thankful that the Lord has kept me this long where I could receive it.” The ceremony — which also honored Al Pacino, James Taylor, the Eagles and the Argentine pianist Martha Argerich — will be broadcast Tuesday on CBS at 9 p.m. In a lively chat, Ms. Staples, still glowing, discussed some behind-the-scenes moments from her big weekend in Washington. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. Advertisement The worst part was my feet. It was just those high-heeled shoes. I took them off, too. My tour manager, he knew that might happen, so he had my flat shoes. My feet were thanking me. My feet felt like they had been honored. Advertisement I sure have. I’ve been there at least four times. I had been at the White House with the Clintons, too. I’m old school! When I walked in, he said, “Mavis, here you are again!” I said, “I’m back, but look at me now — I got my ribbons.” He put his arm around me and we took our picture. I had seven guys with me [including her frequent collaborator Jeff Tweedy of Wilco]. All of them were tall. Michelle said, “Oh, Mavis, this is how you roll, huh?” I said, “This is how I roll, Michelle.” Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy They be rushing you, so we couldn’t have a whole long conversation, but then I sat next to him and Michelle in the balcony, and he said, “Mavis, you’re looking good.” I was almost crying again. I’ve just been so happy. A whole lot of stuff don’t excite me no more, as old as I am, but I’m just bubbling.  Gospel and blues singer Mavis Staples fist-bumps singer-songwriter James Taylor as she is recognized at the 2016 Kennedy Center Honors reception. Actor Al Pacino is at left. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Oh yeah, we did! I believe it was after Garth Brooks sang [Mr. Taylor’s] song. I felt so good about it that I gave him a bump. He almost didn’t know what my fist was there for, but he finally hit it. It reminded me of when you first saw Obama and Michelle do that. They did the fist bump. We black people, we’ve been doing it for years. But when they did it, the world knew about it. Al Pacino, he said something about, “We gotta do something!” I started singing — “We gotta do it again, we gotta do it again” — and he started dancing. I said, [singing] “Let’s do it in the morning!” He said, “Oh, no, no, Mavis, I don’t do it in the morning.” I said, “You got to — that’s the song!” He is so comical. You know, I’ve thought about that. We tried to figure out who would go, who would be the artists. I think it would probably be country artists. I haven’t seen any of the big-time country artists sing for Mr. Trump, but it would probably be in the country family. Advertisement I am really disheartened. I’m about to relive the ’60s. I’ve seen some of it already. I can turn on the news and I can swear I’m back in the ’60s. The way things are going, every day it’s something. I feel like all of this is happening because of the way Mr. Trump is. He’s bringing it on. I’m going to have to start writing songs again. I’m so sorry that we, as black people, don’t have a leader like Dr. Martin Luther King — someone to take charge. We have to do it through our songs and our actions. And try to stay nonviolent. You know what, just like they couldn’t find him, I can’t find him either! He’s a hard guy to get a hold of. We’re good together when we’re together, but when we split up, it’s over. [Laughs] My father is the first thought in my mind when something like this comes to me. Oh, Lord, Pops — you did it again, Daddy. He’s the cause of it all. He started it. I can just see my father up in heaven, he’s walking around, talking to the angels and the elders and he’s got this gleam in his eye and a big smile on his face: “My daughter, let me tell you all something, my baby daughter, Mavis, that Kennedy Center is honoring her tonight!” He’s so happy. I just wish to God he was here. A version of this article appears in print on December 26, 2016, on Page C2 of the with the headline: ‘Look at Me Now — I Got My Ribbons’.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Let’s start at the bottom: What was the worst part?

The worst part was my feet. It was just those high-heeled shoes. I took them off, too. My tour manager, he knew that might happen, so he had my flat shoes. My feet were thanking me. My feet felt like they had been honored.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You’ve been to the White House a few times during the Obama presidency, is that correct?

I sure have. I’ve been there at least four times. I had been at the White House with the Clintons, too. I’m old school!

What did President Obama say to you this time around?

When I walked in, he said, “Mavis, here you are again!” I said, “I’m back, but look at me now — I got my ribbons.” He put his arm around me and we took our picture.

I had seven guys with me [including her frequent collaborator Jeff Tweedy of Wilco]. All of them were tall. Michelle said, “Oh, Mavis, this is how you roll, huh?” I said, “This is how I roll, Michelle.”

Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

They be rushing you, so we couldn’t have a whole long conversation, but then I sat next to him and Michelle in the balcony, and he said, “Mavis, you’re looking good.” I was almost crying again. I’ve just been so happy. A whole lot of stuff don’t excite me no more, as old as I am, but I’m just bubbling.

Gospel and blues singer Mavis Staples fist-bumps singer-songwriter James Taylor as she is recognized at the 2016 Kennedy Center Honors reception. Actor Al Pacino is at left. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Dec 4, 2016 at 8:34pm PST

There’s a photo of you fist-bumping James Taylor. What was going on in there?

Oh yeah, we did! I believe it was after Garth Brooks sang [Mr. Taylor’s] song. I felt so good about it that I gave him a bump. He almost didn’t know what my fist was there for, but he finally hit it. It reminded me of when you first saw Obama and Michelle do that. They did the fist bump. We black people, we’ve been doing it for years. But when they did it, the world knew about it.

Word is you and Al Pacino did a little singing together.

Al Pacino, he said something about, “We gotta do something!” I started singing — “We gotta do it again, we gotta do it again” — and he started dancing. I said, [singing] “Let’s do it in the morning!” He said, “Oh, no, no, Mavis, I don’t do it in the morning.” I said, “You got to — that’s the song!” He is so comical.

How do you think the appreciation of culture and music will change under a Trump administration?

You know, I’ve thought about that. We tried to figure out who would go, who would be the artists. I think it would probably be country artists. I haven’t seen any of the big-time country artists sing for Mr. Trump, but it would probably be in the country family.

Your music has always been a soundtrack for social change and racial progress. When you see the state of the country these days, are you disheartened?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am really disheartened. I’m about to relive the ’60s. I’ve seen some of it already. I can turn on the news and I can swear I’m back in the ’60s. The way things are going, every day it’s something. I feel like all of this is happening because of the way Mr. Trump is. He’s bringing it on. I’m going to have to start writing songs again. I’m so sorry that we, as black people, don’t have a leader like Dr. Martin Luther King — someone to take charge. We have to do it through our songs and our actions. And try to stay nonviolent.

Have you spoken to your old friend Bob Dylan about his big award this year, the Nobel Prize for Literature?

You know what, just like they couldn’t find him, I can’t find him either! He’s a hard guy to get a hold of. We’re good together when we’re together, but when we split up, it’s over. [Laughs]

What would your father, Mr. Pops Staples, say about this award?

My father is the first thought in my mind when something like this comes to me. Oh, Lord, Pops — you did it again, Daddy. He’s the cause of it all. He started it. I can just see my father up in heaven, he’s walking around, talking to the angels and the elders and he’s got this gleam in his eye and a big smile on his face: “My daughter, let me tell you all something, my baby daughter, Mavis, that Kennedy Center is honoring her tonight!” He’s so happy. I just wish to God he was here.