Christmas Sees Bloody Gang War In Mexico Which Left 13 Dead Including Six Beheaded
Christmas Sees Bloody Gang War In Mexico Which Left 13 Dead Including Six Beheaded
Christmas Sees Bloody Gang War In Mexico Which Left 13 Dead Including Six Beheaded Western Mexico’s plague of violence has continued with the discovery of six decapitated heads in one state and the killing of seven people in another. The Michoacan state prosecutor’s office said the six heads were found on Christmas Day in Jiquilpan, a municipality near the state of Jalisco in a region that has been a battleground between competing drug gangs in recent years. In a brief statement, it said the six men had not yet been identified and their bodies had not been found. Meanwhile state security officials in the neighbouring state of Guerrero said gunmen entered a house and shot seven people dead in the municipality of Atoyac de Alvarez. Five were members of one family and two were a married couple. State security spokesman Roberto Alvarez Heredia said in a statement that two of the seven killed were municipal police officers and one a state police officer. The preliminary investigation suggested the gunmen wanted to kill one of the victims in a revenge attack but ended up killing them all. Guerrero, where Acapulco is located, is one of the states most plagued by drug gang violence.

Western Mexico’s plague of violence has continued with the discovery of six decapitated heads in one state and the killing of seven people in another.

The Michoacan state prosecutor’s office said the six heads were found on Christmas Day in Jiquilpan, a municipality near the state of Jalisco in a region that has been a battleground between competing drug gangs in recent years.

AP

In a brief statement, it said the six men had not yet been identified and their bodies had not been found.

Meanwhile state security officials in the neighbouring state of Guerrero said gunmen entered a house and shot seven people dead in the municipality of Atoyac de Alvarez. Five were members of one family and two were a married couple.

Jose Luis de la Cruz/EPA

State security spokesman Roberto Alvarez Heredia said in a statement that two of the seven killed were municipal police officers and one a state police officer. The preliminary investigation suggested the gunmen wanted to kill one of the victims in a revenge attack but ended up killing them all.

Guerrero, where Acapulco is located, is one of the states most plagued by drug gang violence.

Agency inputs