Donald Trump Tweets Holiday Greetings
Donald Trump Tweets Holiday Greetings
Shares               President-elect Donald Trump today tweeted Christmas greetings.  #MerryChristmas  pic.twitter.com/5GgDmJrGMS  On Saturday, Trump sent similar good wishes to those who celebrate Hanukkah.  Happy #Hanukkah  pic.twitter.com/UvZwtykV1E  The president-elect and Melania Trump on Saturday night attended a Christmas Eve service at the Palm Beach, Florida, church where they married in 2005. They arrived at the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea, an Episcopal church just minutes from his Mar-a-Lago estate, around 10:30 p.m. Some members of the congregation stood up and clapped for the Trumps when they arrived. Shares                  Donald Trump Tweets Holiday Greetings   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban but Regrets Quick Rollout   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Lawmakers' Phones Ring Off the Hook Over Trump's Education Pick   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   The Note: A Day of Tests for Trump   2 Other Times Kellyanne Conway Referred to Bowling Green 'Massacre' or 'Attack'   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump

President-elect Donald Trump today tweeted Christmas greetings.

On Saturday, Trump sent similar good wishes to those who celebrate Hanukkah.

The president-elect and Melania Trump on Saturday night attended a Christmas Eve service at the Palm Beach, Florida, church where they married in 2005.

They arrived at the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea, an Episcopal church just minutes from his Mar-a-Lago estate, around 10:30 p.m. Some members of the congregation stood up and clapped for the Trumps when they arrived.