Mother gets cropped out of family photo, has furious response
Mother gets cropped out of family photo, has furious response
But because the 18-year-old, from Maryland in the US, didn't manage to get one with just her two brothers, she chose to crop a larger one that included her mother. Big mistake. I cropped my mom out of ONE of the HUNDREDS pictures we took because I didn't get a picture alone with my brothers, she's so hurt 😭😭 pic.twitter.com/lEvtPQjy8g  Noreen, Abeera's mother, wasn't happy when she saw the cropped photo uploaded to Facebook. She sent Abeera a text message demanding to know why she'd been cut:  "Why u crop me out stupid idiot," she implored. "U all here in this world because of me. Post picture again don't crop me out." She added in Urdu, roughly translated to English, "no manners", "ungrateful children" and "give birth to them with such difficulty and they just crop you out". Abeera has explained that her mother wasn't quite as furious as the text message suggested but she did feel bad to have cropped her out. She told that they spoke on the phone about it shortly afterwards and had a good laugh, adding that she ended up swapping the photo back. Read more Mother defends spending £2,000 on 350 Christmas presents for her kids                      Keep scrolling for next article

Abeera Tariq and her family all attended her cousin's wedding recently. They posed for "hundreds" of photos.

But because the 18-year-old, from Maryland in the US, didn't manage to get one with just her two brothers, she chose to crop a larger one that included her mother.

Big mistake.

I cropped my mom out of ONE of the HUNDREDS pictures we took because I didn't get a picture alone with my brothers, she's so hurt 😭😭 pic.twitter.com/lEvtPQjy8g — Abeera Tariq (@Abeeraww) December 19, 2016

Noreen, Abeera's mother, wasn't happy when she saw the cropped photo uploaded to Facebook.

She sent Abeera a text message demanding to know why she'd been cut:

Picture: Abeera Tariq /Twitter

"Why u crop me out stupid idiot," she implored. "U all here in this world because of me. Post picture again don't crop me out."

She added in Urdu, roughly translated to English, "no manners", "ungrateful children" and "give birth to them with such difficulty and they just crop you out".

Abeera has explained that her mother wasn't quite as furious as the text message suggested but she did feel bad to have cropped her out.

She told BuzzFeed that they spoke on the phone about it shortly afterwards and had a good laugh, adding that she ended up swapping the photo back.