Why are so many celebrities dying in 2016?
Why are so many celebrities dying in 2016? 
t certainly seems to be the case. Earlier this year, the death of the musician Prince , just a day after Victoria Wood died from cancer, got people asking whether 2016 was cursed in some way. At the time, the two entertainers were the latest in a long line of celebrities to die in 2016, following Ronnie Corbett , Alan Rickman , David Bowie , Sir Terry Wogan , Harper Lee , David Gest , Garry Shandling , Johan Cruyff among others. Since then, Gene Wilder , best known for "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory" and "Blazing Saddles", has passed away. And now George Michael , whose death seems to cap a torrid year for our stars. Many people have expressed their horror, on Twitter, at the glut of famous deaths. Prince, Bowie, Corbett & Victoria Wood.. '2016, the year Entertainment died!' #RIPPrince  pic.twitter.com/TEzw0tsoAt Terry Wogan, David Bowie, Paul Daniels, Alan Rickman, Victoria Wood. Now Prince. How mant more legends is 2016 going to take from us? Could amazing people just stop dying for a bit? Thanks. D Bowie,Zaha Hadid, Victoria Wood, Merle Haggard, Ronnie Corbett, Alan Rickman, George Martin - enough is enough 2016 ut is it true? Are more celebrities dying than normal? Theory 1: More people are dying This would seem highly unlikely, unless there was a flu epidemic or a particularly harsh winter, which often causes spikes in mortality rates. ccording to the Office for National Statistics, which measures all the deaths registered in England and Wales on a weekly basis, 156,041 people have died between the start of this year up until the week ending April 8. This is indeed slightly higher – just over 3 per cent – than the average over the last five years, which is 151,801. But a spokesman for the ONS says: “This is within the bounds of normal variance.” Indeed, Wikipedia lists all the deaths of people who merit a Wiki entry . These people include celebrities, as well as far less famous people, such as academics and clergymen. Between January 1 and April 21 this year, there have been 2,109 deaths listed. Last year in the same period there were, in fact, more: 2,202 – despite there being being one fewer days because 2015 was not a leap year. ndrew Brown, the Telegraph obituaries editor, says: “It’s possible there are more pop stars coming into their 60s and 70s. Even if they corrected their lifestyles in later life, years of hard living might have made them more vulnerable to death now.” There was even an Australian academic study in 2014, which looked at 13,000 different rock and pop stars, and found that on average they die 25 years younger than average. Theory 3: There's been a strange statistical blip Brown, himself, is dubious there has been a glut of celebrity deaths, and believes a couple of strangely busy weeks – Bowie died the same week as Alan Rickman; Gary Shandling and Johan Cruyff both died on March 24; Ronnie Corbett died on the same day as Dame Zaha Hadid a week later – has skewed our perception. It is worth remembering, JFK was assassinated the same day Aldous Huxley died, and Diana, Princess of Wales died in the same week that Mother Theresa died. he Telegraph publishes three to four obituaries every day, day in day out. Only when a major figure dies – former prime ministers, royalty, David Bowie – do they merit a whole page. He insists he has not noticed a backlog of more minor figures being pushed out by a glut of celebrities. Theory 4: The bar for 'celebrity' has been lowered This is possible. David Gest, famous for being the fourth husband of Liza Minelli and a contestant on I’m a Celebrity, Get me Out of Here, merited a 1,120-word obituary in the Telegraph. Though this newspaper’s obituary page has always revelled in celebrating quirky lives, it’s fair to say he would not have appeared a decade or so ago. ade Goody, who died from cervical cancer in 2009 at the age of 27 – after forging a remarkable career as the archetypal modern reality television star – did have a Telegraph obituary (and an absolutely brilliantly written one , too), but it was decided by the editor at the time not to run it in the newspaper. But Gest is about the only one of 2016’s celebrity deaths to fit this category. Theory 5: There are just more celebrities per head of population The pop music boom of the 1960s and the arrival of television in people’s sitting rooms from the mid-50s onwards has increased massively the pool of household names. n the era of just three TV channels the likes of unassuming, bank-manager lookalike Cliff Michelmore became woven into families’ weekly lives. The Paul Daniels magic show regularly attracted viewing figures of 15 million; the Two Ronnies hit 18 million viewers in 1980 – giving these light entertainment stars a recognition factor that would be impossible in the period before television and celebrity magazines. It would also be far more difficult to replicate in today’s era of countless terrestrial channels, Netflix and iPlayer and YouTube, which has spawned thousands of “celebrities” but few genuine household names, known and loved by two or even three generations in the way that Victoria Wood, Prince or Ronnie Corbett were. Starting to think it might be a serial killer, with a grudge against people who are massively loved. BC Radio 4’s excellent More or Less programme , which looks at statistics behind the headlines, examined the theory that more celebrities had died this year than normal. Nick Serpell, BBC’s obituary editor, calculated that in the period January to March the corporation had run 24 obituaries on its radio stations and online, double the figure for the same period in 2015. There had been 5 in 2012, 8, in 2013 and 11 in 2014. Mr Serpell told the programme: “All these people, and the rise and growth of celebrity if you like, are reaching that period in their seventies and eighties where they are going to start to die and I think that is what's causing this.” Theory 6: Social media amplifies the deaths This is a popular theory. In the old days, a celebrity death was announced on the radio, or in the obituary section. We digested the news in private. Now, within seconds of the news breaking Facebook, Instagram, Twitter is deluged with #RIP and other hashtags as we try to out-bid each other in our public statements of grief. Today not only doves are crying. #RIPPrince  #Prince It seems to be a terrible year the entertainment industry. Another loss. #RIPPrince  #RIPChyna  #RIPVictoriaWood lso, we are now more aware of the demise of celebrities with whom we have no affinity, be they a footballer, an American stand up or British television presenter. It is possible, as a result, that we now have a greater appetite for reading about the deaths of famous people. Facebook, in particular, seems to particularly encourage users to post clips or quotes of their favourite stars – a chance to wallow in a bit of childhood nostalgia. In some ways, we have all become citizen obituary writers. So, what's the reason for all the deaths? The theory that there are just more celebrities – per 1,000 head of population – combined with the fact that many had a terribly unhealthy lifestyle is the most compelling reason why so many have died in recent months. This will be of no comfort to their millions of fans.

According to the Office for National Statistics, which measures all the deaths registered in England and Wales on a weekly basis, 156,041 people have died between the start of this year up until the week ending April 8. This is indeed slightly higher – just over 3 per cent – than the average over the last five years, which is 151,801. But a spokesman for the ONS says: “This is within the bounds of normal variance.”

Indeed, Wikipedia lists all the deaths of people who merit a Wiki entry. These people include celebrities, as well as far less famous people, such as academics and clergymen. Between January 1 and April 21 this year, there have been 2,109 deaths listed. Last year in the same period there were, in fact, more: 2,202 – despite there being being one fewer days because 2015 was not a leap year.

Theory 2: Celebrities are cursed

This might be possible, bearing in mind that some of the people who have died were counter culture figures of the 1960s and 1970s, who epitomised the sex, drugs and rock and roll lifestyle of that era: David Bowie, who supposedly spent a year surviving on nothing more than cocaine, milk and red peppers; Howard Marks, the drugs dealer; Keith Emerson, one of the founding members of progressive rock group Emerson, Lake and Palmer; and Paul Kantner, the co-founder of Jefferson Airplane and prolific user of LSD.