Mills & Boon introduce surround-sound steamy romance novels for bored housewives
Mills & Boon introduce surround-sound steamy romance novels for bored housewives
hey were once associated with bored housewives, pouring over steamy scenes in innocent-looking paperbacks to inject a little more romance into their lives. But Mills & Boon aim to take that to another level this year, as they roll out surround-sound audio versions of their novels. The romance publisher has announced it is to use 3D sound recording to bring ever-more-realistic sounds to its novels, promising to make listeners feel as if they are in the middle of scenes. One executive publisher said: “Believe me when I say you have never heard love like this before.” Mills & Boon made its first foray into the experimental medium in December with the publication of Sharon Kendrick’s 100th novel. he author is one of the 25 authors in the Mills & Boon “elite 100 club”, comprising the 25 more prolific writers. While the publisher has been releasing audio books successfully for several years, this is the first attempt at binaural recording in which actors wear a microphone in each ear as they perform. Using two microphones instead of one, experts explain, allows sound to be captured as a human being would hear it, creating the illusion on playback of being in the room. The new medium is being pioneered in A Royal Vow of Convenience, the story of a princess masquerading as a cook, and a billionaire who “can’t resist a taste of the forbidden”. spokesman said: “Recorded on location, and perfectly capturing the sounds and atmosphere of a hot, sultry night, the lead characters from the novel are brought to life to deliver a highly charged, intimate listening experience – including a seductive midnight swim - that will undoubtedly leave listeners wanting more.” Kendrick, who has sold more than 25 million novels, worked with Heart, the radio brand, to create the first 3D sound recording installment. Lisa Milton, Mills & Boon executive publisher, said: “We’re hugely proud of Sharon and the publication of her 100th Mills & Boon title and especially excited to see the reaction to the 3D sound extract. “It is outstanding technology and I am thrilled that HarperCollins & Mills & Boon are at the forefront of this innovation – it really does bring Sharon’s milestone 100th book to life, and believe me when I say you have never heard love like this before!” Kendrick, a married mother-of-two from London who currently lives in Winchester, said: “I never dreamed when I wrote my first story back in 1991 that I would be celebrating my 100th book 25 years later, and in such style. “It is amazing to hear A Royal Vow of Convenience come to life in 3D sound. “To hear my characters, and to feel the chemistry between them, in such an intimate, immersive recording is incredible.” It is the latest development from Mills & Boon, who are reported to sell one book every five seconds in the UK. Earlier this year, the publishers launched a new series of tongue-in-cheek guides to modern womanhood, mimicking the popular spoof vintage books by the likes of Ladybird.

They were once associated with bored housewives, pouring over steamy scenes in innocent-looking paperbacks to inject a little more romance into their lives.

But Mills & Boon aim to take that to another level this year, as they roll out surround-sound audio versions of their novels.

The romance publisher has announced it is to use 3D sound recording to bring ever-more-realistic sounds to its novels, promising to make listeners feel as if they are in the middle of scenes.

One executive publisher said: “Believe me when I say you have never heard love like this before.”

Mills & Boon made its first foray into the experimental medium in December with the publication of Sharon Kendrick’s 100th novel.