Latest Sony Hack Targets Britney Spears

Latest Sony Hack Targets Britney Spears // // // // Hacked Sony Music accounts spread false news of Britney Spears’ death https://t.co/pLo9Z21hSM  pic.twitter.com/KPZKwwyiEE — The Verge (@verge) December 26, 2016 Oops, the internet did it again! News that pop star Britney Spears had died spread around the web Monday morning following a series of tweets from Sony Music Global's official Twitter page . However, this was quickly debunked as a hack of Sony's account. Britney Spears is alive and well, and the tweets have since been deleted. "RIP @britneyspears ," read the first tweet, along with the hashtag #RIPBritney and the years 1981-2016. A second tweet read, "britney spears is dead by accident! we will tell you more soon," also with the hashtag #RIPBritney. Sony quickly regained control of its account and named the hacking group OurMine as the culprit. Sony released the following statement: "Sony Music Entertainment's Twitter account was compromised. This has been rectified. Sony Music apologizes to Britney Spears and her fans for any confusion." It appears that singer Bob Dylan's Twitter page was also hacked, since a "Rest in peace @britneyspears" tweet appeared on the account at around the same time of the Sony tweets. This incident is just another reminder lesson of what we all know but sometimes forget: Just because something is on the internet doesn't necessarily mean it's true!

Hacked Sony Music accounts spread false news of Britney Spears’ death https://t.co/pLo9Z21hSM pic.twitter.com/KPZKwwyiEE — The Verge (@verge) December 26, 2016

Here Are Some of the Most Feel-Good Moments From 2016

Drexel Professor Slammed for 'White Genocide' Christmas Wish

GWU Lifts U.S. History Course Requirement for History Majors

Oops, the internet did it again!

News that pop star Britney Spears had died spread around the web Monday morning following a series of tweets from Sony Music Global's official Twitter page.

However, this was quickly debunked as a hack of Sony's account.

Britney Spears is alive and well, and the tweets have since been deleted.

"RIP @britneyspears," read the first tweet, along with the hashtag #RIPBritney and the years 1981-2016. A second tweet read, "britney spears is dead by accident! we will tell you more soon," also with the hashtag #RIPBritney.

Sony quickly regained control of its account and named the hacking group OurMine as the culprit.

Sony released the following statement:

"Sony Music Entertainment's Twitter account was compromised. This has been rectified. Sony Music apologizes to Britney Spears and her fans for any confusion."

It appears that singer Bob Dylan's Twitter page was also hacked, since a "Rest in peace @britneyspears" tweet appeared on the account at around the same time of the Sony tweets.

This incident is just another reminder lesson of what we all know but sometimes forget: Just because something is on the internet doesn't necessarily mean it's true!

Obama: I Could Have Won If I Could Run for POTUS Again

WATCH: CA Sheriff's Deputy Gives Gift of Life to Fellow Officer

Thousands of Refugee Children Given Chance to Celebrate Christmas