Jihadi dad who turned daughter into suicide bomber is dead
Jihadi dad who turned his young daughter into a suicide bomber is dead


A jihadi father who used his seven-year-old daughter as a suicide bomber in Syria has now met his own death.

Abu Nimr al-Suri was shown on a video kissing his daughter goodbye before sending her into a Syrian police station, where she was blown up by a remote detonator.

Russia Today's Middle East correspondent Lizzie Phelan has tweeted a photograph of Abu Nimr in his traditional death shroud.

She said he had also been involved in the murder of Syrian TV actor Mohamad Rafea, 30, who was kidnapped and killed in 2012.

Many Islamist extremist fighters believe the Koran promises 'martyrs' 72 virgins in heaven if they die during a jihad, or holy war. Islamic scholars say this is a misreading of one of the shuras in the Koran.

Abu Nimr was shown in the traditional Muslim death shroud (right) but it is unclear exactly how he was killed

Earlier this month a appalling video emerged showing the ranting extremist holding the girls in his arms as he brainwashes them.

Footage showed him lecturing her and her nine-year-old daughter about how to carry out suicide bomb attacks before they are embraced by a woman in a burka, believed to be their mother.

A short time later the seven-year-old walked into a police station in Syria's capital, Damascus, before being killed in an explosion.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said yesterday gunmen opened fire on Abu Nimr, whose real name was Abdul Rahman Shaddad, in the Teshreen neighbourhood on the outskirts of capital Damascus.

Footage captured the moment jihadi father Abu Nimr kissed his daughters goodbye shortly before one of them walked into a Syrian police station and was blown up by a remote detonator

Both girls said 'Allahu Akbar' before separate footage showed them dressed in coats and woolly hats as they embraced their mother and left the room

Footage showed Abu Nimr lecturing the two children, seven and nine, about how to carry out suicide bomb attacks before they are embraced by their mother

The seven-year-old is thought to have walked into a police station (pictured) in Syria's capital, Damascus, before being killed in an explosion believed to have been detonated remotely

As music played in the background, Abu Nimr, sitting in front of a black and white jihadist flag, drums into the girls the importance of completing their mission.

Both girls then said 'Allahu Akbar' before separate footage showed them dressed in coats and woolly hats as they embraced their mother and left the room.

A short time later, on December 16, the seven-year-old girl calmly walked into a Damascus police station before being killed in a bomb blast that also injured three officers.

In one video, the mother repeatedly hugs the seven-year-old, named as Islam, and the older girl, named as Fatima.

A man behind the camera asks the woman why she is sending her daughters to jihad when they are so young.

A short time later, the seven-year-old reportedly walked into a police station in Syria's capital, Damascus, and was killed in an explosion at a police head quarters

There were Syrian media reports that Abu Nimr was a member of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as the al-Nusra Front, which had links with al-Qaeda

She replied: 'No-one is young when it comes to jihad as every Muslim is supposed to participate in jihad.'

He then prays for Allah to accept the sacrifice the woman is making

In the second video Abu Nimr asks one of the girls what she is 'going to do today' before she replies that she is going to carry out a suicide bombing in Damascus.

In an apparent reference to the recent bus evacuation of rebel fighters and residents from Aleppo, Abu Nimr asks one of the children: 'Shouldn’t you leave fighting to the men? Or did all of them flee in the green buses?'

He later added: 'You are not going to be afraid because you are going to the Heavens, right?'.

The girl on the left replied simply: 'Yes'.

Both children then said Allah Akbar on their father’s request before he started saying prayers.

Abu Nimr teaching his two children to become suicide bombers before kissing them goodbye

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed there had been a blast in Midan but said it could not specify the cause

The explosion in the bustling Midan neighbourhood of the Syrian capital wounded three police officers, said the Al-Watan daily, which is close to the government.

A police source told Al-Watan the little girl had appeared lost and asked to use the toilet when the explosives went off.

Although rebel groups have fired rockets and mortar rounds into the capital, explosions inside the city itself are rare.

A police source told Al-Watan the little girl had appeared lost and asked to use the bathroom before the explosives went off

A news report from the scene showed the girl's remains, which had been blurred out by the television network

Observatory head Rami Abdel Rahman told AFP 'one woman' was killed in the blast, but it remained unclear whether she was a suicide bomber or a bystander.

In early 2012, a suicide bomber killed 26 people when he blew himself up in Midan. More than 310,000 people have died since Syria's conflict broke out in 2011.