Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City Thunder denies shouting 'Thank you Kyrie!' following pregame warm-up
Westbrook denies shouting 'Thank you Kyrie!'
Westbrook denies shouting 'Thank you Kyrie!' Draymond Green's triple-double was unusual and valuable Green triple-double historically uncommon in win Sources: Durant hires extra security for return Knicks ban Oakley, fire security chief of MSG Melo: Knicks have to get out from under 'cloud' Dolan: I'll allow Phil to do his job, won't meddle Magic wants to 'call the shots' with Lakers Draymond Green steals the show from Klay Thompson Klay Thompson's heroic Game 6  vs. OKC changed everything Kevin Durant returns with memories, but not regrets Durant, Westbrook and the NBA's reality TV stars Pain in Jimmy Butler's heel lingers in return; status for Sunday unclear What Kevin Durant left behind in Oklahoma City #NBArank Rising Stars: Where does Lakers' Ingram land? Pelton mail: How will Ben Simmons compare to Rubio? Ten (12) things I like and don't like, including the streaking Miami Heat Fantasy basketball forecaster: Feb. 13-26 Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Is the Lakers' young core making the right strides? Why we won't stop talking about Lin vs. Kobe 3 Related Photos: New York, Taiwan and the Knicks during peak Linsanity Jeremy Lin is still a symbol for whatever we want him to be What it's like to be called the 'next Jeremy Lin' Russell Westbrook strongly denies yelling, "Thank you Kyrie!" after sinking a 3-pointer during pregame warm-ups. (0:43) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers the Oklahoma City Thunder for ESPN.com Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment OKLAHOMA CITY -- Thunder guard Russell Westbrook strongly denied he yelled "Thank you Kyrie!" as he ran off the court following his pregame warm-up routine before Sunday's 112-100 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves . "What? F--- do I look like? For real," Westbrook said. "When would I ever say that? Clear what up? What video?" A video of Westbrook sprinting into the team's tunnel toward the locker room was posted to Twitter by the Thunder's official account, and as he made his way off the court he yelled a "thank you" to someone. The video spread on social media, with many believing Westbrook was shouting thank you to Cleveland Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving , who hit a game-winning jumper with 3.4 seconds left to defeat former teammate Kevin Durant and his Golden State Warriors . Westbrook, though, attempted to clarify and said he was thanking Jayme Sharpe, the daughter of Thunder trainer Joe Sharpe. Jayme can be seen sitting baseline in the video, right in front of where Westbrook took the shot. "I would never say no other man's name like that, for one," Westbrook said. "'Thank you Kyrie,' who do I look like? I was talking to my trainer's daughter, whose name is Jayme. Thank you, Jayme. I'm not going to keep going on that. I'm going to keep my spirit up because I'm not about to even involve myself in no dumb stuff like that. So next question, man." The timing also doesn't line up. Westbrook concluded his pregame routine with the walk-off shot at roughly 4:02 p.m. local time. Irving didn't hit his game winner until right at 4:15. Westbrook was asked if he watched any of the Cavs-Warriors game, and noted that he was on the court warming up during a large portion of it. Westbrook concludes every warm-up by taking a 3-point shot while standing out of bounds in the corner, behind the backboard. He has a long-running joke bet with the Thunder staffers who sit nearby during his warm-up. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

OKLAHOMA CITY -- Thunder guard Russell Westbrook strongly denied he yelled "Thank you Kyrie!" as he ran off the court following his pregame warm-up routine before Sunday's 112-100 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves.

"What? F--- do I look like? For real," Westbrook said. "When would I ever say that? Clear what up? What video?"

Editor's Picks Russell Westbrook lights up the young Timberwolves Russell Westbrook has fun on the court, and his Thunder teammates are following his lead. Against the Timberwolves, it was a winning combination.

A video of Westbrook sprinting into the team's tunnel toward the locker room was posted to Twitter by the Thunder's official account, and as he made his way off the court he yelled a "thank you" to someone. The video spread on social media, with many believing Westbrook was shouting thank you to Cleveland Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving, who hit a game-winning jumper with 3.4 seconds left to defeat former teammate Kevin Durant and his Golden State Warriors.

Westbrook, though, attempted to clarify and said he was thanking Jayme Sharpe, the daughter of Thunder trainer Joe Sharpe. Jayme can be seen sitting baseline in the video, right in front of where Westbrook took the shot.

"I would never say no other man's name like that, for one," Westbrook said. "'Thank you Kyrie,' who do I look like? I was talking to my trainer's daughter, whose name is Jayme. Thank you, Jayme. I'm not going to keep going on that. I'm going to keep my spirit up because I'm not about to even involve myself in no dumb stuff like that. So next question, man."

The timing also doesn't line up. Westbrook concluded his pregame routine with the walk-off shot at roughly 4:02 p.m. local time. Irving didn't hit his game winner until right at 4:15. Westbrook was asked if he watched any of the Cavs-Warriors game, and noted that he was on the court warming up during a large portion of it.

Westbrook concludes every warm-up by taking a 3-point shot while standing out of bounds in the corner, behind the backboard. He has a long-running joke bet with the Thunder staffers who sit nearby during his warm-up.