Shahid-Mira's Cute Banter, Dangal's National Anthem Leaves Twitterati In A Fix & More From Ent!
Shahid-Mira's Cute Banter, Dangal's National Anthem Leaves Twitterati In A Fix & More From Ent!
Shahid-Mira's Cute Banter, Dangal's National Anthem Leaves Twitterati In A Fix & More From Ent! 1. This Wrestling Journey Of The Dangal Girls Will Make You Feel Guilty For Skipping Your Workout! Be it the younger Phogat girls or the older ones, they were given extensive training in wrestling for months at the end. They were got severely injured and exhausted but they did not give up one bit. They skimmed through all the hurdles and worked out very hard for 7-8 months. 2. From Exes To Burping Habits, Shahid-Mira's Koffee With Karan Teasers Will Leave You Very Excited! Shahid and Mira could be seen talking about their exes. We kid you not! Shahid went on to even say that he’s still getting to know about Mira’s boyfriends and that her count is as good as his! However, the duo even elaborately expressed how deeply they are in love with each other. 3. After Being Trolled For Taking A Dig At Salman In Her Blog, Twinkle Khanna Gives A Sassy Reply! From calling her names to writing nasty and nonsensical crap about her and her family, the trolls left no stone unturned to demean her. But Khanna who’s known for her sass and wit managed to shut all the trolls with one tweet! She tweeted, “I write social,political satire-will not examine an ant & spare an elephant because I fear getting trampled by the herd #TrollProof #CarryOn” 4. Hrithik Roshan Takes A Break From Kaabil, Spends Christmas Skiing With His Sons In Switzerland The Krrish actor took to Twitter to share a picture of the trio going for skiing in the scenic Alps. Decked up in the skiing gear, the three Roshan men cut a really gorgeous picture. Along with the picture, Hrithik even sent Christmas wishes to his friends, fans and family. 5. Here's How 'The National Anthem' Scene In Aamir Khan's Dangal Left The Viewers In A Fix! Now, Dangal had a very emotional scene in the climax where the national anthem is played. From my personal experience, I could see that people were in a fix – to stand or not. While some did it out of respect for their country, many others did it because of the fear of not abiding by the law. Then there were those who stood up because they were overwhelmed by the film.

1. This Wrestling Journey Of The Dangal Girls Will Make You Feel Guilty For Skipping Your Workout!

video grab

Be it the younger Phogat girls or the older ones, they were given extensive training in wrestling for months at the end. They were got severely injured and exhausted but they did not give up one bit. They skimmed through all the hurdles and worked out very hard for 7-8 months.

2. From Exes To Burping Habits, Shahid-Mira's Koffee With Karan Teasers Will Leave You Very Excited!

Shahid and Mira could be seen talking about their exes. We kid you not! Shahid went on to even say that he’s still getting to know about Mira’s boyfriends and that her count is as good as his! However, the duo even elaborately expressed how deeply they are in love with each other.

3. After Being Trolled For Taking A Dig At Salman In Her Blog, Twinkle Khanna Gives A Sassy Reply!

From calling her names to writing nasty and nonsensical crap about her and her family, the trolls left no stone unturned to demean her. But Khanna who’s known for her sass and wit managed to shut all the trolls with one tweet! She tweeted,

“I write social,political satire-will not examine an ant & spare an elephant because I fear getting trampled by the herd #TrollProof #CarryOn”

4. Hrithik Roshan Takes A Break From Kaabil, Spends Christmas Skiing With His Sons In Switzerland

The Krrish actor took to Twitter to share a picture of the trio going for skiing in the scenic Alps. Decked up in the skiing gear, the three Roshan men cut a really gorgeous picture. Along with the picture, Hrithik even sent Christmas wishes to his friends, fans and family.

5. Here's How 'The National Anthem' Scene In Aamir Khan's Dangal Left The Viewers In A Fix!

Now, Dangal had a very emotional scene in the climax where the national anthem is played. From my personal experience, I could see that people were in a fix – to stand or not. While some did it out of respect for their country, many others did it because of the fear of not abiding by the law. Then there were those who stood up because they were overwhelmed by the film.

This spiked a very interesting debate on the Twitter.