Connecticut Huskies fire football coach Bob Diaco
UConn fires Diaco after 3 years, offensive woes
UConn fires Diaco after 3 years, offensive woes The 10 teams with the easiest 2017 nonconference slates 1 Related Good luck, Pitt: Panthers have toughest 2017 non-con slate Buffs' MacIntyre: Followed protocol with Tumpkin La. Tech's Dancy cancer-free, wants to play again Mixon victim to cops: His gay slur incited incident Source: Arroyo to be Oregon's co-OC/QB coach Flecks of gold: New Minny boss gets 5-year deal N. Carolina's Chizik steps down as D-coordinator If recruiting reforms happen, who benefits? How does Alabama find room for its latest wave of five-stars? 1 Related What's the best Alabama team ever? Will Miami's recruiting classes under Mark Richt mirror his early success at Georgia? The next great QB prospect might just be J.T. Daniels Tom Herman has an extensive (and expensive) Texas rebuilding plan No more Mr. Nice Guy for Nebraska's Mike Riley USC suspends Rose Bowl star K Boermeester Early official visits could be recruiting game-changer for Big Ten Amid whirlwind of change, California searches for new identity Stanford faces an uncertain spring due to injuries, new faces More Oregon turnover: Dougherty exits for UCLA Plenty of familiar names join ACC, from Swinney to Roof to Brooks Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State Why schools push so hard for recruits to enroll early Take a tour of Clemson's ridiculously cool new facility What happens when Jim Harbaugh tweets out your phone number? NLRB: Football players at private FBS schools are employees Kirby Smart delivers hope to Georgia, but now he must win Why LSU, Georgia should temper signing day excitement Welcome to the circus that will be 2018 Sunshine State recruiting Post-signing day Way-Too-Early 2017 Top 25 Early bird Duke opens spring, with focus on getting back to a bowl NCAA agrees to $209M scholarships settlement Which recruiting classes aced signing day? Chris Hassel and Matt Chatham break down Connecticut's 38-13 loss to Tulane, ending its 3-9 season. (1:52) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment College football reporter. Joined ESPN.com in 2008. Graduate of Northwestern University. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The Connecticut Huskies have fired football coach Bob Diaco after just three seasons, the school announced Monday. "I know this may come as a surprise to our fans and supporters given the timing of this decision," athletic director David Benedict said in a statement. "However, it became apparent to me that a change in program direction is necessary at this time." Diaco was 11-26 in three seasons with the Huskies, who finished the season five weeks ago. In May, he agreed to a two-year contract extension through the 2020 season. He earned $1.7 million this season and was set to earn $1.8 million in 2017. He will officially be relieved of his duties on Jan. 2 and will receive a buyout of $3.4 million, which would've been $5 million had he been fired effective Dec. 31 or earlier. UConn went 3-9 this season and finished in a three-way tie for last place in the American Athletic Conference East division. Diaco demoted offensive coordinator Frank Verducci in early November, and UConn announced in late November that he would not return to the coaching staff. The Huskies ranked 122nd among the 128 Bowl Subdivision teams in total offense and last in scoring at 14.8 points per game. According to ESPN Stats & Information, the Huskies averaged only 15.9 points per game during Diaco's tenure -- the fewest by an FBS team over a three-season stretch since New Mexico averaged 14.7 points from 2009 to 2011. "This is obviously not the way I had hoped things would turn out, but I appreciate having had the opportunity to be here at UConn," Diaco said in a statement. "I thank the administration, staff and fans of the UConn football program for their passion and support over these three years. Most importantly, I want to say how much I love the players on this team and will be rooting for their success. I know that there are great things to come for all of them." Penn State offensive coordinator Joe Moorhead is expected to be a candidate for UConn's vacancy. Moorhead will coach Penn State against USC on Jan. 2 in the Rose Bowl Game presented by Northwestern Mutual. The Huskies have struggled since Randy Edsall, who led UConn to a bowl game in each of his final four seasons, left for Maryland after the 2010 season. Since then, UConn has had six straight seasons with at least seven losses -- with just 24 wins -- and has earned only one bowl invitation, a loss in the St. Petersburg Bowl last season. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Connecticut Huskies have fired football coach Bob Diaco after just three seasons, the school announced Monday.

"I know this may come as a surprise to our fans and supporters given the timing of this decision," athletic director David Benedict said in a statement. "However, it became apparent to me that a change in program direction is necessary at this time."

Fewest PPG Since 2014 UConn averaged 15.9 PPG in Bob Diaco's three seasons at the helm, worst in the FBS over that span. Team PPG UConn 15.9 Kent State 16.7 Wake Forest 17.2 -- ESPN Stats & Information

Diaco was 11-26 in three seasons with the Huskies, who finished the season five weeks ago. In May, he agreed to a two-year contract extension through the 2020 season. He earned $1.7 million this season and was set to earn $1.8 million in 2017.

He will officially be relieved of his duties on Jan. 2 and will receive a buyout of $3.4 million, which would've been $5 million had he been fired effective Dec. 31 or earlier.

UConn went 3-9 this season and finished in a three-way tie for last place in the American Athletic Conference East division. Diaco demoted offensive coordinator Frank Verducci in early November, and UConn announced in late November that he would not return to the coaching staff. The Huskies ranked 122nd among the 128 Bowl Subdivision teams in total offense and last in scoring at 14.8 points per game.

According to ESPN Stats & Information, the Huskies averaged only 15.9 points per game during Diaco's tenure -- the fewest by an FBS team over a three-season stretch since New Mexico averaged 14.7 points from 2009 to 2011.

Since Bob Diaco was hired in 2014, UConn has had one of the worst offenses in the FBS, averaging just 15.9 points per game, 302.4 total yards per game and a third-down conversation rate of just 32 percent. AP Photo/Michael Dwyer

"This is obviously not the way I had hoped things would turn out, but I appreciate having had the opportunity to be here at UConn," Diaco said in a statement. "I thank the administration, staff and fans of the UConn football program for their passion and support over these three years. Most importantly, I want to say how much I love the players on this team and will be rooting for their success. I know that there are great things to come for all of them."

Penn State offensive coordinator Joe Moorhead is expected to be a candidate for UConn's vacancy. Moorhead will coach Penn State against USC on Jan. 2 in the Rose Bowl Game presented by Northwestern Mutual.

The Huskies have struggled since Randy Edsall, who led UConn to a bowl game in each of his final four seasons, left for Maryland after the 2010 season. Since then, UConn has had six straight seasons with at least seven losses -- with just 24 wins -- and has earned only one bowl invitation, a loss in the St. Petersburg Bowl last season.