19 Times J.K. Rowling Was Sassy AF On Twitter In 2016
19 Times J.K. Rowling Was Sassy AF On Twitter In 2016
When she had the most perfect response to the using “openly gay” as a slur. If the worst they can say about you is you're an OPENLY GAY EX-OLYMPIC FENCER TOP JUDGE, you've basically won life. When she saw a video detailing her “10 rules for success”, and was like, “nah”. When she summed up the presidential election in the best – and most depressing – way possible. Well, there you have it. A highly intelligent, experienced woman just debated a giant orange Twitter egg. Your move, America. #debate When she had no time for critics of Noma Dumezweni’s role in . When the wrote a piece on the “impeccable grooming” of the alt-right, and J.K. clapped the hell back. Can't wait for next week: 'Shabby-Chic Loungewear and Stubble - Styling with ISIS.' When she read an article questioning the “purpose” of the female orgasm, and was having absolutely none of it . Yes, the prospect of pushing an 8 pound object out of your vagina should be more than enough incentive for sex. https://t.co/UoEtPH3lRh When she summed up every writer’s struggle in less than 140 characters. Sometimes, after yet another 3.30am waking, you start to wish your muse could show up politely at 9am rather than waking you up to party. When she hilariously recognised the divisiveness of one of her beloved/hated characters. When someone tried to insult her, and she couldn’t give less of a shit. A baby orange Twitter egg! They're so cute at this age. And when she proved she’ll never stop firing shots at trolls. .@DynamiteTom Gosh, no, I've got several million women sitting beside me. …Ever. So this is what it feels like when your life suddenly loses all meaning. When this happened. (And Chamillionaire took it upon himself to respond.) When Brexit happened, and it made her reconsider everything she knew. Sitting in Yo Sushi, wondering what will be here in a few years' time. A conveyor belt of British jams, perhaps, and one long dirty spoon. When she revealed the more-than-slightly inappropriate birthday present she received from her 13-year-old son. When Devon Murray, who played Seamus Finnigan, revealed he prefers Slytherin over Gryffindor, and Jo was not happy. When someone asked her how to make a Horcrux, and she wasn’t having any of it. When she was down with the kids. When she gave some important parenting advice. And when she managed to sum up how we all feel about 2016 in just a few words. If we all hit ctrl-alt-del simultaneously and pray, perhaps we can force 2016 to reboot.   Do You Have Popular Comedy Opinions?    This Picture Test Will Reveal How Your Mind Works  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.