How to make limoncello with just four ingredients and in just 10 days
How to make limoncello with just four ingredients and in just 10 days
A four-ingredient recipe for Limoncello is taking the internet by storm. The syrupy-sweet Italian liqueur is notoriously painstaking to make, requiring up to three weeks infusion time, but one blogger says you only need 10 days. The recipe, posted by the Brown Eyed Baker food blog has had more than 16,000 pins and is among one of the best limoncello recipes according to Pinterest. Read more Wine glass gadget lets you drink from the bottle with decorum The golden rule of cocktail making, by the head of Europe's best bar Everyone is going crazy for a three-layer dessert called magic cake It won't break the bank either with the only steep ingredient being a bottle of vodka. Switch out the Smirnoff for a cheaper alternative and you could be saving some serious dough. Finding a suitable gift for cocktail lovers can leave your wallet in a feeble state so why not whip up a batch of this boozy lemon drink instead? To make this limoncello all you’re going to need is a one litre bottle of vodka, 10 lemons, five cups of water and four cups of granulated sugar. Of course, you can make it in smaller batches but it’s party season after all. Start by washing and then peeling the lemons before putting them in a large glass container. Pour the alcohol in and leave to infuse for at least 10 days. This will make sure the essential oils permeate the liquor and give it its signature yellow colour. When the time is up, drain the liquid to get rid of the peels and make a syrup to add sweetness. Using a coffee filter, strain the mixture once more and pour in to your decanter of choice. Et voila, your very own homespun version of Italy’s finest saccharine tipple. More about: Food and Drink Alcohol cocktail recipes Comments

A four-ingredient recipe for Limoncello is taking the internet by storm.

The syrupy-sweet Italian liqueur is notoriously painstaking to make, requiring up to three weeks infusion time, but one blogger says you only need 10 days.

The recipe, posted by the Brown Eyed Baker food blog has had more than 16,000 pins and is among one of the best limoncello recipes according to Pinterest.

It won't break the bank either with the only steep ingredient being a bottle of vodka. Switch out the Smirnoff for a cheaper alternative and you could be saving some serious dough.

Finding a suitable gift for cocktail lovers can leave your wallet in a feeble state so why not whip up a batch of this boozy lemon drink instead?

To make this limoncello all you’re going to need is a one litre bottle of vodka, 10 lemons, five cups of water and four cups of granulated sugar. Of course, you can make it in smaller batches but it’s party season after all.

A bottle of wine a day is not bad for you and abstaining is worse than drinking, scientist claims

Start by washing and then peeling the lemons before putting them in a large glass container. Pour the alcohol in and leave to infuse for at least 10 days.

This will make sure the essential oils permeate the liquor and give it its signature yellow colour.

When the time is up, drain the liquid to get rid of the peels and make a syrup to add sweetness.

Using a coffee filter, strain the mixture once more and pour in to your decanter of choice.

Et voila, your very own homespun version of Italy’s finest saccharine tipple.