Baddie Winkle is Urban Decay’s Latest Muse
Baddie Winkle is Urban Decay’s Latest Muse
You might know 88-year-old Baddie Winkle best from Instagram. There, you can see the badass grandma hanging out with Khloe Kardashian, staring in a Fergie music video, dawning a pink feathered robe to the Grammy’s red carpet, or rocking a bedazzled nude bodysuit to the MTV Video Music Awards . Basically, she is living her best life. And who am I kidding? She’s living my best life, too. Well, Winkle just got even cooler: Urban Decay named her its latest Monthly Muse . It’s a paring that makes total sense; Urban Decay is all about having fun with your look, making your own rules, and living colorfully . And you can find few who do that better than this social media star who currently has 1.2 million Instagram followers and a bio that says “Stealing your man since 1928." For the Muse shoot, Urban Decay flew the Tennessee-native to Los Angeles and dressed her up various cool-girl ensembles , including a see-through fishnet top, sequin silver dress, pink bomber, and a star-stitched jean skirt. It looked like what I imagine would happen if Rizzo from decided to become a street style blogger. But the sartorial choices are all par-for-the course for Winkle, she tells Urban Decay in an accompanying Q&A video. “I’ve always been stylish, and I love color,” she says. “Color for clothes inspires me.” For her makeup, Winkle says she uses eyeshadow, lipstick, and Urban Decay’s Setting Sprays . Winkle fits right into the Muse series, where the brand featured twin-sisters Corianna and Brianna Dotson, founders of Coco and Breezy eyewear {: rel=nofollow}, lifestyle blogger Hieu Cow , and model-photographer- DJ Alie Layus . They’re all cool AF women who are defining beauty on their own terms, while being total bosses. Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ll be scrolling through Baddie Winkle’s Instagram feed for the next few hours for outfit inspiration. Watch her Q&A here . 10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks 7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20

By Alexandra Engler. Photos: Getty Images, Courtesy of Instagram.

You might know 88-year-old Baddie Winkle best from Instagram. There, you can see the badass grandma hanging out with Khloe Kardashian, staring in a Fergie music video, dawning a pink feathered robe to the Grammy’s red carpet, or rocking a bedazzled nude bodysuit to the MTV Video Music Awards. Basically, she is living her best life. And who am I kidding? She’s living my best life, too.

Well, Winkle just got even cooler: Urban Decay named her its latest Monthly Muse. It’s a paring that makes total sense; Urban Decay is all about having fun with your look, making your own rules, and living colorfully. And you can find few who do that better than this social media star who currently has 1.2 million Instagram followers and a bio that says “Stealing your man since 1928."

For the Muse shoot, Urban Decay flew the Tennessee-native to Los Angeles and dressed her up various cool-girl ensembles, including a see-through fishnet top, sequin silver dress, pink bomber, and a star-stitched jean skirt. It looked like what I imagine would happen if Rizzo from Grease decided to become a street style blogger.

But the sartorial choices are all par-for-the course for Winkle, she tells Urban Decay in an accompanying Q&A video. “I’ve always been stylish, and I love color,” she says. “Color for clothes inspires me.” For her makeup, Winkle says she uses eyeshadow, lipstick, and Urban Decay’s Setting Sprays.

Winkle fits right into the Muse series, where the brand featured twin-sisters Corianna and Brianna Dotson, founders of Coco and Breezy eyewear{: rel=nofollow}, lifestyle blogger Hieu Cow, and model-photographer-DJ Alie Layus. They’re all cool AF women who are defining beauty on their own terms, while being total bosses.

Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ll be scrolling through Baddie Winkle’s Instagram feed for the next few hours for outfit inspiration.

Watch her Q&A here.

This story originally appeared on Allure.

More from Allure:

10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger

Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape

The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks

7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos

The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair

The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20