Woman throws son out on Christmas Day for not giving her a card
Woman branded a 'brat' for throwing son out on Christmas day


Christmas wouldn't be the same without a few arguments, but one woman may well have taken things too far after throwing her son out for failing to buy her a card.

The mother made the revelation on Mumsnet, explaining she was aggrieved when her adults son donated to charity instead of giving her a card with her Christmas gift.

After an argument she told her son to leave and take the presents he'd given, admitting that her grandchildren were very upset by this.

Her fellow forum users were outraged, with one accusing her of acting like a 'brat', and telling her she needed to apologise to her son.

A mother has caused outrage after admitting she threw her son out on Christmas day for failing to give her a card, which she would have preferred to receive over a present (picture posed by model)

Going by the handle user1482716073 the woman explained in the post titled 'To have expected a card?', that she received a Christmas card from 'all of her children bar one' - her son who was spending the festive day with her and the rest of the family.

'We swapped presents and then I raised the issue of the card. I told him how upset I was not to get a card from him

'He told me that he wasn't doing cards this year and had made a charity donation. I wasn't happy as I expected a card and thought this was a cop out.'

Later, she came across her son sitting alone in another room and when she asked him why he was sulking, it escalated into a blazing row.

A woman explained how she'd ended up in a blazing row with her adult son who decided to donate money to charity instead of giving Christmas cards this year

And if the woman was hoping other Mumsnet users would empathise, she did not get the reaction sh was looking for.

MavisTheTwinklyToreador couldn't believe she had a tantrum and made her own child feel unwelcome 'over a piece of paper'.

'Grow up and consider how you made him feel,' she said.

Another user told the woman that she had 'overreacted massively and owe your son an apology', adding that if she was her mother she would reconsider a relationship with her.

But no one appeared to be in agreement with her reaction to her son not buying her a Christmas card, calling her a 'spoilt brat'

'You are being an absolute brat,' another commented as well as urging her to apologise.

She received a hint of understanding from Someonestolemynick who conceded it was 'a little shifty' of her son not to buy a card, knowing how much they mean to his mother.

However, she concluded that the mother's reaction was much worse.

'You asked him to leave because you didn't get your own way?' she siad. 'If I was your son I would be reconsidering my relationship with you.'

The user's post sparked backlash after she admitted she had thrown out her son and her grandchildren out of her house on Christmas day

The woman tried to defend herself saying her son wasn't been very thoughtful but other people disagreed

Many more agreed that the user was being unreasonable, but she stood firm and even tried to defend her actions.

'I know it was just a card but it's the unthoughtfulness that upset me. It's a small thing that shows people care. I picked out a really special card for my son.