OK, calling it: This little boy stars in 2016's most heartwarming Christmas video
OK, calling it: This little boy stars in 2016's most heartwarming Christmas video
Christmas is the time of year miracles happen, and because it's 2016, sometimes those miracles get caught on camera. Janelle Rice shared a touching video Sunday on Facebook of her 11-year-old biological son, Landon, opening the present he's always dreamed of: his adoption certificate. SEE ALSO: Boyfriend has tear-jerkingly beautiful reaction to girlfriend's thoughtful gift "[Landon] really wanted to be adopted by [my husband] Daniel and have his last name changed," Rice told "And we felt it was finally time!" Over the course of Janelle and Daniel's 10 year marriage, Landon has been open about his desire to be adopted. "When he was about five-years-old we heard it first," she explained, "Because he said he wanted to 'marry daddy' the way I did, so he could have the same last name." "At his fifth grade graduation in May, he was called up to the stage to get his 'diploma' and he told his teachers he wanted to go by Landon Rice (rather than his birth last name) — that's when we knew we had to begin," she said. Daniel secretly began the long process of adopting Landon a few months ago, finishing in time to give Landon the best possible Christmas gift. Because the family has always treated all the kids equally, Janelle explained the process was "Truly nothing huge to us, just a legality!" "But it obviously meant the world to Landon," she said, and there's a video to prove it. Let's just say, we hope you have your tissues ready. BONUS: Celebrate the holiday season with an 8-bit version of 'Home Alone'

Christmas is the time of year miracles happen, and because it's 2016, sometimes those miracles get caught on camera.

Janelle Rice shared a touching video Sunday on Facebook of her 11-year-old biological son, Landon, opening the present he's always dreamed of: his adoption certificate.

"[Landon] really wanted to be adopted by [my husband] Daniel and have his last name changed," Rice told Mashable, "And we felt it was finally time!"

Over the course of Janelle and Daniel's 10 year marriage, Landon has been open about his desire to be adopted.

"When he was about five-years-old we heard it first," she explained, "Because he said he wanted to 'marry daddy' the way I did, so he could have the same last name."

"At his fifth grade graduation in May, he was called up to the stage to get his 'diploma' and he told his teachers he wanted to go by Landon Rice (rather than his birth last name) — that's when we knew we had to begin," she said.

Daniel secretly began the long process of adopting Landon a few months ago, finishing in time to give Landon the best possible Christmas gift.

Because the family has always treated all the kids equally, Janelle explained the process was "Truly nothing huge to us, just a legality!"

"But it obviously meant the world to Landon," she said, and there's a video to prove it.

Let's just say, we hope you have your tissues ready.