NBA says two mistakes were made in Cleveland Cavaliers favor in final 2 minutes of win over Golden State Warriors
NBA: Durant was fouled; LeBron deserved tech
NBA: Durant was fouled; LeBron deserved tech NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale Singer flubs 'O Canada' before Nets-Raptors Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Furious Kerr tossed for arguing calls midcourt Is it finally John Wall's time? Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Stephen Curry, Warriors come up short against Kings Kevin Love's game shines bright in New York spotlight Cavaliers hoping for post-deadline, free-agent magic LeBron on Melo: 'I just want him to be happy' Derrick Rose on Knicks: 'The rebuild could be me going, too' Top fantasy basketball waiver-wire pickups at every position Russell Westbrook paints another masterpiece In current and all-time battle, Celtics ahead of Lakers Celtics' Stevens to coach East in All-Star Game Yao Ming's No. 11 jersey retired by Rockets Rockets use Harden plus intangibles to beat Bulls Tyronn Lue reacts to the NBA saying there was an officiating mistake at the end of Sunday's Cavaliers game where Richard Jefferson appeared to trip Kevin Durant. (0:25) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Cavs and NBA writer for ESPN.com Covered the Lakers and NBA for ESPNLosAngeles.com from 2009-14 and the NBA for NBA.com from 2005-09 Syracuse University graduate Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- The Cleveland Cavaliers benefited from two missed calls in the last two minutes of their stirring 109-108 come-from-behind victory over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, the NBA announced Monday. According to the league, Richard Jefferson should have been called for a foul with 3.1 seconds left for making foot contact with the Warriors' Kevin Durant that was determined to have affected Durant's rhythm, speed, balance or quickness on the play. "There's a lot of fouls throughout the course of the game that don't get called," Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue said before the Cavs played the Detroit Pistons on Monday when asked for comment on the league's determination. "It's a tough game to officiate -- the players we have, the way guys can draw fouls and contact. And so that was an incidental play at the end of the game. "You don't want the game decided on two free throws at the end of the game. I didn't see [the foul]. There wasn't much contact to me. But to me, you come back and say that you made a mistake in the last two minutes of the game, I mean, that's on them." The game ended with Durant missing a 34-foot 3-point attempt from the floor as time expired. "I fell," Durant said. "And I didn't fall on my own." Durant later told The Undefeated , "I would've made that shot if he didn't trip me up. ... But they ain't calling it on him at their crib. It's not his fault. It's not the refs' fault, either." Jefferson said he was innocent. "We all think we're fouled on every play in every single game," Jefferson said. "That's why I say I know the referees have a very hard job. I switched to his body. It looked like he lost his balance. He was trying to regain his balance, and as soon as I saw him start to stumble, I ran off. I ran off so it wouldn't look like I was trying to pressure him more, so he didn't trip on my foot and it looked like I bumped him -- nothing. "It's one of those things; plays can go either way. ... When you get down to these two quality teams, each play back and forth, everything can be dissected. It's just one of those things that went in our favor at the last play." The league also determined that LeBron James ' dunk with 1:43 remaining, which put the Cavs up 105-103 and gave them their first lead since the first quarter, should have resulted in a technical foul for "deliberately hanging on the rim" after the dunk was completed. James said after the game he had extra motivation to finish the dunk over Draymond Green because Green fouled him and sent him sprawling to the floor in a similar circumstance in Game 7 of the NBA Finals in June. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Tyronn Lue reacts to the NBA saying there was an officiating mistake at the end of Sunday's Cavaliers game where Richard Jefferson appeared to trip Kevin Durant. (0:25)

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- The Cleveland Cavaliers benefited from two missed calls in the last two minutes of their stirring 109-108 come-from-behind victory over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, the NBA announced Monday.

According to the league, Richard Jefferson should have been called for a foul with 3.1 seconds left for making foot contact with the Warriors' Kevin Durant that was determined to have affected Durant's rhythm, speed, balance or quickness on the play.

Editor's Picks Jefferson 'bit surprised' by tech for winking at KD Richard Jefferson was assessed a technical foul for taunting after he winked at Warriors star Kevin Durant, capping what the Cavs swingman called "an interesting week or two with the referees."

What made Cavaliers-Warriors a great game? The numbers tell the story There were so many fascinating elements, from how much the Cavaliers led to the Christmas Day records that were set. 1 Related

"There's a lot of fouls throughout the course of the game that don't get called," Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue said before the Cavs played the Detroit Pistons on Monday when asked for comment on the league's determination. "It's a tough game to officiate -- the players we have, the way guys can draw fouls and contact. And so that was an incidental play at the end of the game.

"You don't want the game decided on two free throws at the end of the game. I didn't see [the foul]. There wasn't much contact to me. But to me, you come back and say that you made a mistake in the last two minutes of the game, I mean, that's on them."

The NBA ruled that Kevin Durant was indeed fouled late in the Warriors' Christmas Day loss. David Sherman/NBAE via Getty Images

The game ended with Durant missing a 34-foot 3-point attempt from the floor as time expired.

"I fell," Durant said. "And I didn't fall on my own."

Durant later told The Undefeated, "I would've made that shot if he didn't trip me up. ... But they ain't calling it on him at their crib. It's not his fault. It's not the refs' fault, either."

Jefferson said he was innocent.

"We all think we're fouled on every play in every single game," Jefferson said. "That's why I say I know the referees have a very hard job. I switched to his body. It looked like he lost his balance. He was trying to regain his balance, and as soon as I saw him start to stumble, I ran off. I ran off so it wouldn't look like I was trying to pressure him more, so he didn't trip on my foot and it looked like I bumped him -- nothing.

"It's one of those things; plays can go either way. ... When you get down to these two quality teams, each play back and forth, everything can be dissected. It's just one of those things that went in our favor at the last play."

The league also determined that LeBron James' dunk with 1:43 remaining, which put the Cavs up 105-103 and gave them their first lead since the first quarter, should have resulted in a technical foul for "deliberately hanging on the rim" after the dunk was completed.

James said after the game he had extra motivation to finish the dunk over Draymond Green because Green fouled him and sent him sprawling to the floor in a similar circumstance in Game 7 of the NBA Finals in June.