Krauthammer Blasts U.N.: Trump Should Turn Manhattan HQ 'Into Condos'

Krauthammer Blasts U.N.: Trump Should Turn Manhattan HQ  'Into Condos' // // // // // Charles Krauthammer said on "Special Report" that he believes the United States was behind last week's U.N. resolution condemning Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hammered the Obama administration for failing to veto the resolution and has since gone a step further, alleging that President Obama initiated the motion. Krauthammer agreed, saying "this was a U.S. operation all the way." "This is very serious damage that cannot be undone because you can't change a Security Council resolution without the acquiescence of the Russians and the Chinese, and you're not gonna get it," he added. Krauthammer especially questioned the mention of "East Jerusalem" in the resolution. "It's as if the U.N. passed a resolution declaring Mecca and Medina to be sovereign Jewish or Christian territory," he said. "It's absurd. It's an insult to the intelligence of the world and is supremely damaging to the Israeli claim to its own holy places." The White House said Sunday the U.S. did not help draft the resolution. It was the first time in 36 years that the Security Council adopted a resolution condemning the settlement construction. Krauthammer went on to say that the U.N. was "born in hope" but now undermines the U.S. and has an "obsession" with going after Israel. He said the organization is given added "weight" by having their headquarters in Manhattan. "I think that's good real estate in downtown New York City. Trump ought to find a way to put his name on it and turn it into condos." Watch the above clip, and tell us what you think of Krauthammer's remarks.

Here Are Some of the Most Feel-Good Moments From 2016

Ex-Employee's Lawsuit Alleges Versace Has Special Code for Black Customers

MUST-SEE: Giant Seal Dents Car Hood While Roaming Australian Neighborhood

Charles Krauthammer said on "Special Report" that he believes the United States was behind last week's U.N. resolution condemning Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hammered the Obama administration for failing to veto the resolution and has since gone a step further, alleging that President Obama initiated the motion.

Krauthammer agreed, saying "this was a U.S. operation all the way."

"This is very serious damage that cannot be undone because you can't change a Security Council resolution without the acquiescence of the Russians and the Chinese, and you're not gonna get it," he added.

Krauthammer especially questioned the mention of "East Jerusalem" in the resolution.

"It's as if the U.N. passed a resolution declaring Mecca and Medina to be sovereign Jewish or Christian territory," he said. "It's absurd. It's an insult to the intelligence of the world and is supremely damaging to the Israeli claim to its own holy places."

The White House said Sunday the U.S. did not help draft the resolution. It was the first time in 36 years that the Security Council adopted a resolution condemning the settlement construction.

Krauthammer went on to say that the U.N. was "born in hope" but now undermines the U.S. and has an "obsession" with going after Israel.

He said the organization is given added "weight" by having their headquarters in Manhattan.

"I think that's good real estate in downtown New York City. Trump ought to find a way to put his name on it and turn it into condos."

Watch the above clip, and tell us what you think of Krauthammer's remarks.

Latest Sony Hack Targets Britney Spears

Drexel Professor Slammed for 'White Genocide' Christmas Wish

Is Ted Cruz Being Considered for Scalia's Supreme Court Vacancy?