Vote: Which NFL team had the most disappointing season?
Vote: Which NFL team had the most disappointing season?
Vote: Which NFL team had the most disappointing season? Vote: Five burning questions from a jaw-dropping Super Bowl Rank 'em: Who are the top 10 teams in the country right now? Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Vote: Dak Prescott vs. Ezekiel Elliott -- Who should win Rookie of the Year? Vote: Who was the biggest snub in this year's Pro Football Hall of Fame? Vote: Which finalists should be elected into the Pro Football Hall of Fame? Vote: 10 key questions for Super Bowl LI Vote: Which Notre Dame recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Oregon recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Ohio State recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Michigan recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Alabama recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? #NBArank Rising Stars: Vote now! Vote: Will Andrew Wiggins ever make the Cavaliers regret trading him? Rank 'em: Who's the best prospect in the upcoming NBA draft? Vote: Should LeBron have ripped Charles Barkley? Vote: Cardinals' punishment too harsh, too lenient or just right? Rank 'em: Who's the best quarterback of all time? Super Bowl LI quiz: Should you root for the Falcons or Patriots? Vote: Who will win the Royal Rumble match? Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The 2016 NFL season is nearly done, and almost all the playoff spots are accounted for -- meaning nearly all the teams that won't be in the postseason know it. Therefore, #PulseOfTheNation asks: Both Super Bowl 50 teams won't be in the playoffs this season, with the Denver Broncos' loss Sunday sealing the champs' fate and the Carolina Panthers struggling for most of the season en route to a possible last-place NFC South finish. On the other end of the spectrum are teams such as the Cleveland Browns and San Francisco 49ers, which didn't exactly have high hopes in 2016 but still underperformed. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The 2016 NFL season is nearly done, and almost all the playoff spots are accounted for -- meaning nearly all the teams that won't be in the postseason know it.

Therefore, #PulseOfTheNation asks:

Both Super Bowl 50 teams won't be in the playoffs this season, with the Denver Broncos' loss Sunday sealing the champs' fate and the Carolina Panthers struggling for most of the season en route to a possible last-place NFC South finish.

On the other end of the spectrum are teams such as the Cleveland Browns and San Francisco 49ers, which didn't exactly have high hopes in 2016 but still underperformed.