What's Ahead For Luxury Travel In 2017?
What's Ahead For Luxury Travel In 2017?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Doug Gollan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Luxury travel is hot. Multiple reports show consumers are choosing travel over hard goods when there is a choice. To help sort out what's what in the world of luxury travel, PR agency Magrino held it's first Magrino Travel Summit, bringing together several of its clients, a top luxury travel agent and noted influencer/blogger to share with the media what they're seeing in their crystal balls. Tourists take pictures of a great white shark swimming for a dead tuna, used as a bait, during a shark cage diving tour in the waters of Gansbaai in the Western Cape, South Africa. (Photo GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AFP/Getty Images) You don’t have to be a true Millennial to vacation like one. “For the first time we see parents wanting to act like the kids," says Jack Ezon, CEO of New York-based Ovation Vacations, a large travel agency focused on luxury travel and big events, such as taking over a castle for a birthday party. He adds true Millennials have no guilt in “taking their vacation days and then some. They see travel as an entitlement.” And in case you think generation next is backpacking and surfing couches, Ezon says, “Millennials are the first segment willing to pay for service (from travel agents). They want to be at Coachella, but they want to be backstage with VIP access.” Nikheel Advani, Co-founder, COO and Principal of Grace Bay Club in Turks and Caicos says it’s wrong to label age groups. “Millennial is a mindset. Guests in their 50s and 60s are partying like they’re in their 30s. We (need to) cater to the mindset.” According to Brian Young, Managing Director of Castle Hill Inn in Newport, Rhode Island, it’s easier said than done. “Those of us who came out of Ritz-Carlton or Four Seasons, we cannot stand on simple or complex service delivery processes when they don’t make sense anymore,” he says. While Airbnb continues to grow by leaps and bounds, localities are now taking a closer look at its legality. The panel says they are all users, and it fills a need. Still, Ezon, when asked if he would sell the sharing economy service if it were to pay travel agent commissions, says he would be hesitant. He has helped clients with Airbnb arrangements in a few cases, “so we don’t get cut out.” He cites the lack of clarity on what you will find when you arrive with some exceptions. At The Setai in Miami, owners of apartments are listing them on Airbnb undercutting rates from the hotel for its own inventory. In Beverly Hills, some top end hotels are losing customers who take entire floors and multiple suites, who are instead renting houses online. Young notes Airbnb can work well. He tells about a trip to Malta where he and his Airbnb host bonded through their affinity for folk music. On the other hand, Alexandra Walterspiel, COO and Co-Founder of hotel management company Imprint Hospitality says, “(Hotels) have a lot of services Airbnb can’t provide.” One area of concern for UHNW travelers is security, where the Kim Kardashian Paris robbery provided fair warning of the risks when forgoing security found at luxury hotels. Is print media dead? No, say both Ezon and Young. Ovation’s advisors consistently get requests from customers about places they read about in magazines.  Young adds, “I don’t think traditional media is going away, but as a small property, we can’t afford (national media)." For his 32-room resort, he says he looks to “smaller, targeted niche publications.” How does he figure out what his customers read? He says, “We don’t go through the garbage, but we pay attention to what publications people leave. We have a great private beach, and as I am talking to customers, I notice what people are reading.” In terms of social media, influencer Kat Tanita says numbers of followers alone aren’t the only measure of which bloggers truly can drive their readers to take action, noting it’s important to look at engagement. She struggled to answer a question about how to separate those who have loyal followings from folks who buy their followers, likes and engagement. The other panelists agreed social media works best when it comes from people you trust, making friends and travel agents powerful channels. The El San Juan hotel, Walterspiel says, is creating areas where it will be natural for people to take pictures, hopefully, they will share. In the high-touch world of luxury, what role should technology play?  “Keyless (where guests go straight to their rooms without any interaction) is a miss. You miss the opportunity to connect with the guest,” says Ezon. Ezon also criticized making complicated things that should be simple. He just returned from a hotel in London, where the “high-tech lighting” had 15 different settings, and contrasts it with Montage Palmetto Bluff, where “they had a simple light switch with a dimmer. You don’t want a guidebook to figure out how to work the lights.” Advani says hotels have to use technology to bring information to employees and pointed to a system called Alice that “integrates our information systems so it’s easier for our people to find the info they need.” Walterspiel says, “General managers are spending too much time at their computers (working on) reports (for owners) than out with guests. We want our GMs to be hoteliers, not financial analysts.” One technology all panelists say is most important to guests is WiFi. Advani says, “We spend millions of dollars on bandwidth. We can’t buy enough bandwidth.” Young adds, “WiFi and bandwidth are like hot water and plumbing…It’s as basic to the experience as hot water in the shower.” Should it be free? Young says, “Pay or not, the important part is it works.” Another area of agreement is to excite you, thread counts are no longer enough. Tanita cited Rosewood Mayakoba, which offers dining at “a long communal table, under a tree with lanterns. You get a sense of community. They have bikes to bike around, so you feel like a local. It’s a luxury hotel experience, but with a heart and soul.” Ezon adds, “We’re seeing every day a flight from brands. The brands really have to embrace this and create unique identities for their properties.” The drive to create personalized experiences can be risky, such as putting family pictures in the room when sometimes guests arrive with, well somebody who was not in the photo. "Pets are safer," says Ezon. Walterspiel adds creating experiences today is more complicated, and employees have to read what guests want, and what they don’t. “When I’m on business, I don’t want the 15-minute spiel. When I come on vacation, I want to find out about the amenities, and what there is to do.”     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Luxury travel is hot. Multiple reports show consumers are choosing travel over hard goods when there is a choice. To help sort out what's what in the world of luxury travel, PR agency Magrino held it's first Magrino Travel Summit, bringing together several of its clients, a top luxury travel agent and noted influencer/blogger to share with the media what they're seeing in their crystal balls.

Vacation Like a Millennial

You don’t have to be a true Millennial to vacation like one. “For the first time we see parents wanting to act like the kids," says Jack Ezon, CEO of New York-based Ovation Vacations, a large travel agency focused on luxury travel and big events, such as taking over a castle for a birthday party. He adds true Millennials have no guilt in “taking their vacation days and then some. They see travel as an entitlement.” And in case you think generation next is backpacking and surfing couches, Ezon says, “Millennials are the first segment willing to pay for service (from travel agents). They want to be at Coachella, but they want to be backstage with VIP access.”

Nikheel Advani, Co-founder, COO and Principal of Grace Bay Club in Turks and Caicos says it’s wrong to label age groups. “Millennial is a mindset. Guests in their 50s and 60s are partying like they’re in their 30s. We (need to) cater to the mindset.”

According to Brian Young, Managing Director of Castle Hill Inn in Newport, Rhode Island, it’s easier said than done. “Those of us who came out of Ritz-Carlton or Four Seasons, we cannot stand on simple or complex service delivery processes when they don’t make sense anymore,” he says.

Airbnb

While Airbnb continues to grow by leaps and bounds, localities are now taking a closer look at its legality. The panel says they are all users, and it fills a need. Still, Ezon, when asked if he would sell the sharing economy service if it were to pay travel agent commissions, says he would be hesitant. He has helped clients with Airbnb arrangements in a few cases, “so we don’t get cut out.” He cites the lack of clarity on what you will find when you arrive with some exceptions. At The Setai in Miami, owners of apartments are listing them on Airbnb undercutting rates from the hotel for its own inventory. In Beverly Hills, some top end hotels are losing customers who take entire floors and multiple suites, who are instead renting houses online.

Young notes Airbnb can work well. He tells about a trip to Malta where he and his Airbnb host bonded through their affinity for folk music. On the other hand, Alexandra Walterspiel, COO and Co-Founder of hotel management company Imprint Hospitality says, “(Hotels) have a lot of services Airbnb can’t provide.” One area of concern for UHNW travelers is security, where the Kim Kardashian Paris robbery provided fair warning of the risks when forgoing security found at luxury hotels.

Media

Is print media dead? No, say both Ezon and Young. Ovation’s advisors consistently get requests from customers about places they read about in magazines. Young adds, “I don’t think traditional media is going away, but as a small property, we can’t afford (national media)." For his 32-room resort, he says he looks to “smaller, targeted niche publications.” How does he figure out what his customers read? He says, “We don’t go through the garbage, but we pay attention to what publications people leave. We have a great private beach, and as I am talking to customers, I notice what people are reading.”

In terms of social media, influencer Kat Tanita says numbers of followers alone aren’t the only measure of which bloggers truly can drive their readers to take action, noting it’s important to look at engagement. She struggled to answer a question about how to separate those who have loyal followings from folks who buy their followers, likes and engagement.

The other panelists agreed social media works best when it comes from people you trust, making friends and travel agents powerful channels. The El San Juan hotel, Walterspiel says, is creating areas where it will be natural for people to take pictures, hopefully, they will share.

Technology

In the high-touch world of luxury, what role should technology play? “Keyless (where guests go straight to their rooms without any interaction) is a miss. You miss the opportunity to connect with the guest,” says Ezon.

Ezon also criticized making complicated things that should be simple. He just returned from a hotel in London, where the “high-tech lighting” had 15 different settings, and contrasts it with Montage Palmetto Bluff, where “they had a simple light switch with a dimmer. You don’t want a guidebook to figure out how to work the lights.”

Advani says hotels have to use technology to bring information to employees and pointed to a system called Alice that “integrates our information systems so it’s easier for our people to find the info they need.” Walterspiel says, “General managers are spending too much time at their computers (working on) reports (for owners) than out with guests. We want our GMs to be hoteliers, not financial analysts.”

One technology all panelists say is most important to guests is WiFi. Advani says, “We spend millions of dollars on bandwidth. We can’t buy enough bandwidth.” Young adds, “WiFi and bandwidth are like hot water and plumbing…It’s as basic to the experience as hot water in the shower.”

Should it be free? Young says, “Pay or not, the important part is it works.”

Experiences

Another area of agreement is to excite you, thread counts are no longer enough. Tanita cited Rosewood Mayakoba, which offers dining at “a long communal table, under a tree with lanterns. You get a sense of community. They have bikes to bike around, so you feel like a local. It’s a luxury hotel experience, but with a heart and soul.”

Ezon adds, “We’re seeing every day a flight from brands. The brands really have to embrace this and create unique identities for their properties.” The drive to create personalized experiences can be risky, such as putting family pictures in the room when sometimes guests arrive with, well somebody who was not in the photo. "Pets are safer," says Ezon.

Walterspiel adds creating experiences today is more complicated, and employees have to read what guests want, and what they don’t. “When I’m on business, I don’t want the 15-minute spiel. When I come on vacation, I want to find out about the amenities, and what there is to do.”

Doug Gollan is Founder and Editor-in-Chief of DG Amazing Experiences, an e-newsletter for private jet owners.

Follow me on Twitter @elitetravelerDG or visit my blog at douggollan.com