Evolution not the driving force behind increased C-sections, midwife says



Evolution not the driving force behind increased C-sections, midwife says

Updated

A midwifery expert says evolution is not the primary reason for an increase in caesarean sections, after a study linked the popular procedure to the growing size of the human brain.

Key points: C-sections disrupt human evolution, women's pelvises aren't growing, study says

Professor Hannah Dahlen says study does not paint complete picture

There is nothing wrong with capacity of women to give birth, she says

The study concluded that because C-sections act as an alternative to natural vaginal birth, it is disrupting human evolution and women's pelvises are not growing to keep up with larger babies being born.

Professor of Midwifery at Western Sydney University, Hannah Dahlen, said the study does not paint a complete picture.

"There's more at play here than simply that there is an evolutionary process occurring where women are potentially going to end up with more obstetrics problems," she said.

Professor Dalhen urged those reading the study for its grabbing headline to "put it all in perspective" and said there is nothing wrong with the capacity of women to give birth.

"We know women who have babies in midwifery care, or in home birth, or in a birth centre environment have over 85 to 95 per cent normal vaginal birth," she said.

"We need to start thinking about the models of care they give birth in, rather than giving up and surrendering, saying, 'Oh, there's nothing we can do, the fate of evolution has overtaken us' — that, I think, is a cop-out."

She says lifestyle factors like obesity and leaving childbirth to later in life have a more significant impact than the evolutionary perspective.

The study, published in the US National Academy of Sciences, says the rate of fetopelvic disproportion — where a baby is too big to be safely delivered through vaginal birth — had increased by 10 to 20 per cent.

It concluded that the advent of C-sections in western countries in the last 55 to 65 years had been a major cause of the fetopelvic disproportion increase, which put both the mother and baby's life at risk.

Dr Michael Westaway is a senior research fellow in palaeoanthropology, the study of human evolution, at Griffith University and labelled the study "a very interesting paper".

"It's a really interesting example of how culture can influence evolution," he said.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Assistant Professor Mihaela Pavlicev, who co-authored the study, said while it highlighted a link between C-sections and obstructed births, she did not want readers to think babies will be getting larger infinitely.

The question baffling scientists

Why have women's pelvises not evolve to keep up with larger babies?

This is the million-dollar question that has left scientists baffled, however, Dr Westaway said the study made "an interesting and important connection".

"This is an evolutionary trend they have documented and they are bringing the world's attention to it … I don't think this causes any alarms," he said.

Dr Westaway said millions of years ago, the skull size of human ancestors was far smaller than those of modern humans, so the pelvis was designed to deliver a much more straightforward birth.

"Birth was quite quick and easy," Dr Westaway said.

"Now birthing of a child is much more complicated.

"The modern birth canal is much more constrained, which didn't happen in the early human ancestors."

Dr Westaway said the situation changed quite significantly approximately 2 million years ago, coinciding with the increased size of skulls.

It was at this time humans began walking more upright and started developing tools, and as our technologies grew, so too did the human brain.

It is just one of the theories as to why there are today's pelvic evolutionary patterns, or lack of them.

C-sections save lives

C-sections can be needed for a range of medical reasons, and with the mother and child's wellbeing a priority, parents are not taking any chances.

First-time mother Deanna Roy had planned to give birth to her son Frankie naturally, but was told on the day a C-section would be needed.

"I had two failed inductions and the doctor basically told me that he was a big boy," the 27-year-old said.

"It was very likely that I would end up [needing an] emergency C-section after a long and painful labour because my pelvis was too narrow."

Mother-of-two Leah Hobbs chose to have the procedure for her second child, Tate, after having an emergency C-section with her first child, Ivy.

"It had been 48 hours of my waters breaking and there was a high risk of infection for Ivy. So they opted for a C-section," she said.

"My obstetrician/gynaecologist said that before C-sections, in the old days I would have died in childbirth.

"So with Tate, I didn't want to go through that risk."

Topics: pregnancy-and-childbirth, reproduction-and-contraception, health, womens-health, women, evolution, science-and-technology, australia, united-states

First posted