'Dangal' Girls Fatima And Sanya's Dancing Videos Will Give You A Glimpse Of Their Crazy Side!
'Dangal' Girls Fatima And Sanya's Dancing Videos Will Give You A Glimpse Of Their Crazy Side!
'Dangal' Girls Fatima And Sanya's Dancing Videos Will Give You A Glimpse Of Their Crazy Side! They came, they conquered and they're still winning hearts. We're talking about debutants Sanya Malhotra and Fatima Sana Sheikh . Dreams come true when you least expect and their journey is a good enough proof. Both were waiting for a Bollywood film to come their way and little did they know that their debut would be so grand! Not many get a chance to share the screen space with Bollywood's Mr. Perfectionist after all. Geeta Babita 😜 A photo posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Jun 20, 2016 at 2:39am PDT   After rigorous training sessions, Haryanvi diction classes, and wrestling, the hard work that the girls had put in is getting the validation and appreciation that they deserved. People can't stop appreciating their performance. If you are sharing screen space with Aamir Khan and still end up being noticed and talked about, it is a big victory in itself, isn't it? #Bhutan A photo posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Oct 21, 2016 at 1:03pm PDT   In many of their interviews and on Koffee With Karan, the duo admitted that they have been good friends since day one of their shoot. Their Instagram account is a proof that reel Geeta and Babita are the best of friends and they love each other's company. Dangal ke daaku! A video posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Dec 20, 2016 at 6:32pm PST   When we stalked them on Instagram, we found out their dancing videos that were too adorable to ignore! Tafree A video posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Sep 1, 2016 at 12:55pm PDT   👯 @fatimasanashaikh A video posted by Sanya Malhotra (@sanyamalhotra_) on Jun 25, 2016 at 12:08am PDT   '

They came, they conquered and they're still winning hearts. We're talking about debutants Sanya Malhotra and Fatima Sana Sheikh. Dreams come true when you least expect and their Dangal journey is a good enough proof.

Both were waiting for a Bollywood film to come their way and little did they know that their debut would be so grand! Not many get a chance to share the screen space with Bollywood's Mr. Perfectionist after all.

Geeta Babita 😜 A photo posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Jun 20, 2016 at 2:39am PDT

After rigorous training sessions, Haryanvi diction classes, and wrestling, the hard work that the girls had put in is getting the validation and appreciation that they deserved. People can't stop appreciating their performance. If you are sharing screen space with Aamir Khan and still end up being noticed and talked about, it is a big victory in itself, isn't it?

#Bhutan A photo posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Oct 21, 2016 at 1:03pm PDT

In many of their interviews and on Koffee With Karan, the duo admitted that they have been good friends since day one of their shoot. Their Instagram account is a proof that reel Geeta and Babita are the best of friends and they love each other's company.

Dangal ke daaku! A video posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Dec 20, 2016 at 6:32pm PST

When we stalked them on Instagram, we found out their dancing videos that were too adorable to ignore!

Tafree A video posted by Fatima Sana Shaikh (@fatimasanashaikh) on Sep 1, 2016 at 12:55pm PDT

👯 @fatimasanashaikh A video posted by Sanya Malhotra (@sanyamalhotra_) on Jun 25, 2016 at 12:08am PDT

'