Woman Finds Rs 100 Cr In Her Jan Dhan Account, Writes To Modi After Bank Refuses To Help Her
Woman Finds Rs 100 Cr In Her Jan Dhan Account, Writes To Modi After Bank Refuses To Help Her
Woman Finds Rs 100 Cr In Her Jan Dhan Account, Writes To Modi After Bank Refuses To Help Her A woman is seeking help from Narendra Modi after her Jan Dhan account flashed a balance of Rs. 100 crores. Extremely shocked to see the unaccounted cash deposit in her State Bank of India account at the Sharda road branch, Sheetal Yadav filed a complaint with the PMO that was sent by her husband, Ziledar Singh. On December 18, when Sheetal went to withdraw cash from an ICICI bank ATM near her residence, she was shocked to see her account balance that stood at Rs. 99,99,99,394. Because she couldn't believe it, she asked another customer to check the balance for her. After he confirmed the amount, she went to cross-check the amount in a YES bank ATM which too showed the same balance. She received no help from her bank and was turned away a few times under one pretext or the other. Disgusted at the bank staff's careless attitude, Ziledar Singh said that he asked a literate person to help draft a mail for the PMO. The couple works on salaries that can't afford such a huge amount - while Ziledar works in a transformer manufacturing company, his wife is employed with a packaging department of another factory. Sheetal withdraws Rs. 5,000 every month from her Jan Dhan account. "We have posted a mail on December 26 to the PMO to help us in solving our problem from where about Rs. 100 crore came into the account where the maximum limit of deposit is restricted to Rs. 50,000 only," Ziledar told the media.

A woman is seeking help from Narendra Modi after her Jan Dhan account flashed a balance of Rs. 100 crores.

Extremely shocked to see the unaccounted cash deposit in her State Bank of India account at the Sharda road branch, Sheetal Yadav filed a complaint with the PMO that was sent by her husband, Ziledar Singh.

PM Jan Dhan Yojana

On December 18, when Sheetal went to withdraw cash from an ICICI bank ATM near her residence, she was shocked to see her account balance that stood at Rs. 99,99,99,394. Because she couldn't believe it, she asked another customer to check the balance for her. After he confirmed the amount, she went to cross-check the amount in a YES bank ATM which too showed the same balance.

She received no help from her bank and was turned away a few times under one pretext or the other. Disgusted at the bank staff's careless attitude, Ziledar Singh said that he asked a literate person to help draft a mail for the PMO.

AP

The couple works on salaries that can't afford such a huge amount - while Ziledar works in a transformer manufacturing company, his wife is employed with a packaging department of another factory. Sheetal withdraws Rs. 5,000 every month from her Jan Dhan account.

"We have posted a mail on December 26 to the PMO to help us in solving our problem from where about Rs. 100 crore came into the account where the maximum limit of deposit is restricted to Rs. 50,000 only," Ziledar told the media.

With inputs from IANS