Ahok: Jakarta Governor's blasphemy trial to proceed in Indonesian court



Ahok: Jakarta Governor's blasphemy trial to proceed in Indonesian court

Updated

An Indonesian court has ruled the blasphemy prosecution of Jakarta's Christian Governor will proceed.

Key points: Governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, aka Ahok, is accused of insulting the Koran

His lawyers' failed argument was the last chance to stop the trial

Christian groups label Ahok's chief attacker blasphemous

Governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, known by his nickname Ahok, is accused of insulting the Koran, a case seen as a test of religious freedom in the Muslim-majority country.

Ahok's legal team had argued the blasphemy prosecution should be dismissed because it had violated the ethnic Chinese politician's human rights and breached procedures, but a panel of judges disagreed.

"The exception by the defendant will be considered and decided by the court after examination of all evidence. The defendant's exception is not accepted," Judge Abdul Rosyad said.

It was the Governor's last chance to stop the trial, which is unlikely to be finished before the city's gubernatorial elections in mid-February.

A tearful Ahok denied at his first hearing on December 13 that he had intended to insult the Koran while he was campaigning ahead of elections in February for the governorship of Jakarta, capital of the world's largest Muslim-majority nation.

Hundreds of white-clad Muslim protesters chanted "Allahu Akbar" (God is greatest) outside the court in north Jakarta on Tuesday and called for the jailing of the Governor.

A smaller group of his supporters were also present outside the courthouse, which was flanked by lines of police.

The presiding judge on the panel, Dwiyarso Budi Santiarto, said the defence could appeal to a higher court if they did not agree with the decision to proceed with the case.

Ahok, after consulting his lawyers, told the court he would consider doing so.

Ahok's chief attacker 'blasphemous': Christian groups

The decision comes as Christian groups reported Ahok's chief attacker for blasphemy.

Hardline cleric Habib Rizieq is accused of saying that Jesus is not God's son.

The Christian groups say this is a highly insulting statement that fits perfectly with the legal definition of blasphemy.

The Governor was named a suspect after hundreds of thousands of people, led by Muslim hardliners, attended rallies in recent months calling for his arrest.

Blasphemy convictions in Indonesia can carry a jail term of up to five years and nearly always result in conviction.

Amnesty International has criticised the law for hurting freedom of expression and for targeting religious minorities.

President Joko Widodo, seen as a Ahok ally, has blamed "political actors" for fuelling the protests, but declined to elaborate.

As Governor, Ahok has won credit for cutting red tape and improving the performance of Jakarta's bloated bureaucracy. However, his abrasive language and insistence on clearing city slums has alienated many voters.

After suffering a slide in support in opinion polls, Ahok has rebounded to become the frontrunner again in the election race to lead Jakarta, according to a poll by the Indonesian Survey Institute earlier this month.

The next court hearing is scheduled for January 3 and will be moved to an auditorium in the Agriculture Ministry in the south of the city for security reasons, authorities said.

ABC/Reuters

Topics: world-politics, religion-and-beliefs, law-crime-and-justice, indonesia, asia

First posted