'They are not going to lie down': Boxing Day hunt crowds remain strong amid fight to scrap fox hunting ban
'They are not going to lie down': Boxing Day hunt crowds remain strong amid fight to scrap fox hunting ban
atecomers to the Chiddingfold, Leconfield and Cowdray hunt’s Boxing Day meet would have been forgiven for thinking they’d stumbled on a festival or a game fair. A vast crowd of more than 2,000 people came to see some 85 horses and riders, dressed in their hunting finery. Some wore traditional top hats and scarlet, others modern safety helmets and body protectors, but all were turned out immaculately, for what is one of the most important days in the hunt’s season. They gathered, as they have since before the war, at the hunt’s historic Georgian kennels in Petworth Park, Sussex. Spectators were still streaming in across the park when Field-Master Julian Edge stood up in his stirrups to address supporters. "It’s fantastic to see you all here,’ he said, to the cheers of the crowd. "Apparently a quarter-of-a-million people will be following hunts today - that’s in spite of 12 years of this unfair, unworkable law. Thank you for coming and showing your support." mong the sea of muted olive Barbour jackets and tweed, Mr Edge’s three daughters stood out, their ponies bedecked with tinsel. His youngest, Daisy, at just two-and-a-half years, was the smallest rider in the field. Her miniature Shetland pony, Obie, was dressed up with a pair of reindeer antlers. "It’s her first Boxing Day meet," said her mother, Zoe. "We spent Christmas Day getting ready; plaiting their manes, cleaning tack - we couldn’t not come. It wouldn’t be Christmas otherwise." As riders knocked back stirrup cups of port to settle their nerves, excited children surged forward to pat a gleaming pale grey horse, belonging to hunt secretary, Nadine Crouch. "It’s the weirdest sport ever - you get them beautifully clean to get them covered in mud again," she laughed. "It’s about keeping the tradition." xemplifying that tradition and continuity were three generations of the Baker family. Chairman of the "Chid and Lec" (as it's known), Charlie Baker, had brought his two sons and all five grandchildren, the youngest, Wilfred, just two years old, snug in his snowsuit and carried by his father. Boxing Day is important because "it’s a celebration of hunting," he explained. The crowd is "not just locals, but people from towns and overseas. Our fields [the number of people who follow the hunt] have actually grown since the ban." Pro-hunting group the Countryside Alliance said Boxing Day saw a "great turnout", with "at least 250,000" gathering at some of the many hunts taking place across the country that were attended by "as many if not more" than ever before. This is despite anti-blood sports charity the League Against Cruel Sports suggesting opposition to repealing the ban has risen steadily since its introduction. Chief executive of the Countryside Alliance and former farmer Tim Bonner said there were "huge crowds from Cornwall to Cumbria". "Frankly, even though it is 11 years on after the ban came into force, it is business as usual and (they are) quite determined they are not going to lie down, they are not going to go away," he said. "We are seeing a huge amount of support from the rural community." atherine Wearne is one of those new recruits to hunting. She went hunting for the first time earlier this season and this year came on foot, with her husband and parents, to what was her first Boxing Day meet. "My parents only live 15 miles away, but we’ve never been before," she said. "I’d thought hunting was a bit of an exclusive club, but it is so welcoming and friendly. People do it for the joie de vivre. "It’s lovely to see something this beautiful and traditional," said Mrs Wearne. "It’s like a injection of England." But while goodwill and high spirits may now be in abundance, the hunt and its supporters are acutely aware that the ban is unlikely to be overturned any time soon. Repeal is needed, they say, because the hunting ban was driven by class politics and prejudice, not animal welfare - and it’s being used by animal rights activists to harass hunt staff. owever, the free vote that was a Conservative manifesto commitment was scuppered by the SNP last year, who said they would vote against repeal. In the post-Brexit era, repeal is not so much on the political back-burner, as congealing on the back of the Aga. As the hunt prepared to move off, the Masters of the Chid and Lec lined up in front of spectators, on their magnificent hunt horses. Two of their number, Robin Muir and Paul Lyon-Maris, only took up hunting after it was banned, yet are convinced of the case for repeal. "I didn’t have a childhood history of hunting; I was born in Edinburgh and worked in London," said Mr Muir. "But it suddenly became very political and I wanted to know what it was like. I completely get why it has to be repealed - it’s how the countryside melds together and it’s very much a part of the community’s psyche. When you disrupt that, it is disturbing and sad." s the Field-Master finished his speech, horses stamped their feet, eager to be off. A child twisted a strand of tinsel back into his pony’s mane, where it had started to work loose. Then the Huntsman, Adrian "Sage" Thompson, blew his horn to collect the hounds and set off around the park, followed by the masters and the rest of the riders. They doubled back for the cavalcade to parade through the crowd, the riders waving, spectators cheering. In a sense, this is the hunt showing off to our supporters," said chairman, Charlie Baker. Today is about pageant and spectacle and hounds will follow an artificial trail. But the campaign to overturn the hunting ban remains very real indeed.

Latecomers to the Chiddingfold, Leconfield and Cowdray hunt’s Boxing Day meet would have been forgiven for thinking they’d stumbled on a festival or a game fair.

A vast crowd of more than 2,000 people came to see some 85 horses and riders, dressed in their hunting finery.

Some wore traditional top hats and scarlet, others modern safety helmets and body protectors, but all were turned out immaculately, for what is one of the most important days in the hunt’s season.

They gathered, as they have since before the war, at the hunt’s historic Georgian kennels in Petworth Park, Sussex.

Spectators were still streaming in across the park when Field-Master Julian Edge stood up in his stirrups to address supporters.