British people are losing their minds over 2016's final insult
British people are losing their minds over 2016's final insult
Brexit , Toblerone ... now Roses. What fresh hell must the UK endure before 2016 is over? This time, people are losing their minds over changes to their beloved Cadbury Roses. SEE ALSO: Controversial tweet ranking chocolate has caused online chaos The confectionary giant actually changed the packaging style in April from a twist tie to a packet. But it wasn't until people tucked into their traditional holiday tubs that everyone noticed all at once. And wow, are they annoyed. False advertising? If it ain't broken, don't try and fix it. Seriously annoyed, ruined Christmas. #cadburyroses  pic.twitter.com/bCUCzL6ZuS — Jim Copeman (@jimmie1978) December 26, 2016 Mr smith is not impressed with the new #cadburyroses packaging, he's given up, he can't cope with the change @CadburyUK — Claire Smith (@mrsclairesmiggy) December 25, 2016 #cadburyroses are you trying to lose sales? Just awful — Andrew photography (@Andy_SouthWales) December 26, 2016 Dear @CadburyUK your new Roses packaging is just horrible! Untwisting a chocolate wrapper is part of the fun! 😑 — Susie 🎾 (@pandsreid) December 22, 2016 Wtf has happened to the wrappers @CadburyUK  #cadburyroses  pic.twitter.com/jWA2AlHbMS — SoLou (@soloub09) December 26, 2016  Reddit isn't thrilled, either. It's time we talk about the wrapper to chocolate ratio in this year's Cadbury's chocolate tins from unitedkingdom Comment from discussion It's time we talk about the wrapper to chocolate ratio in this year's Cadbury's chocolate tins . Comment from discussion It's time we talk about the wrapper to chocolate ratio in this year's Cadbury's chocolate tins . Cadbury's customer service has been working overtime on Twitter. Image:  twitter/screenshot And another complaint was shared widely. They've made all the Roses the same shape. And I'm colourblind. Worst year ever. pic.twitter.com/af6FyvHduH — Ray Foley (@rayfoleyshow) November 21, 2016 While the tub of Roses has gotten lighter in weight over the years, a company spokesperson told the that the most recent change only affected individual chocolate weights. “While the weight of the individual units have adapted to accommodate the new shape and wrapper, there is no change to the overall weight in both tubs and cartons of Cadbury Roses. The changes relate solely to the shape and design,” he said . Let's hope this is the final insult of 2016. BONUS: Londoners queue to stick their arms through a hole for a surprise tattoo

Brexit, Toblerone... now Roses.

What fresh hell must the UK endure before 2016 is over?

This time, people are losing their minds over changes to their beloved Cadbury Roses.

SEE ALSO: Controversial tweet ranking chocolate has caused online chaos

The confectionary giant actually changed the packaging style in April from a twist tie to a packet. But it wasn't until people tucked into their traditional holiday tubs that everyone noticed all at once.

And wow, are they annoyed.

False advertising? If it ain't broken, don't try and fix it. Seriously annoyed, ruined Christmas. #cadburyroses pic.twitter.com/bCUCzL6ZuS — Jim Copeman (@jimmie1978) December 26, 2016

Mr smith is not impressed with the new #cadburyroses packaging, he's given up, he can't cope with the change @CadburyUK — Claire Smith (@mrsclairesmiggy) December 25, 2016

#cadburyroses are you trying to lose sales? Just awful — Andrew photography (@Andy_SouthWales) December 26, 2016

Dear @CadburyUK your new Roses packaging is just horrible! Untwisting a chocolate wrapper is part of the fun! 😑 — Susie 🎾 (@pandsreid) December 22, 2016

Cadbury's customer service has been working overtime on Twitter.





Image: twitter/screenshot

And another complaint was shared widely.

They've made all the Roses the same shape. And I'm colourblind. Worst year ever. pic.twitter.com/af6FyvHduH — Ray Foley (@rayfoleyshow) November 21, 2016

While the tub of Roses has gotten lighter in weight over the years, a company spokesperson told the Guardian that the most recent change only affected individual chocolate weights.

“While the weight of the individual units have adapted to accommodate the new shape and wrapper, there is no change to the overall weight in both tubs and cartons of Cadbury Roses. The changes relate solely to the shape and design,” he said.

Let's hope this is the final insult of 2016.