Rockets GM Daryl Morey Is Creating a Musical Called 'Small Ball' About Fake MJ
Rockets GM Daryl Morey Is Creating a  Musical Called 'Small Ball' About Fake MJ
Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey is a numbers guy. His time with the Rockets has been marked by the use of analytics. Apparently, he’s a theater guy, too. According to Hunter Atkins of the , the veteran GM is combining two of his passions into a musical appropriately titled . Morey is collaborating with playwright Mickle Maher. Here's Atkins: The premise: The people of Lilliput, a fictional island nation that appears in the 1726 novel "Gulliver's Travels," want to join an international basketball league. But to be competitive enough for that, they import "Michael Jordan," a man who turns out not to be the NBA Hall-of-Famer but happens to have the same name. While amusing, Morey remains steadfast is the real deal. Per Atkins, Morey said the show will debut in Houston within an 18-month timeframe. "It's definitely happening," he said. [h/t CBS Sports ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Bill Baptist/Getty Images

Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey is a numbers guy. His time with the Rockets has been marked by the use of analytics.

Apparently, he’s a theater guy, too.

According to Hunter Atkins of the Houston Chronicle, the veteran GM is combining two of his passions into a musical appropriately titled Small Ball. Morey is collaborating with playwright Mickle Maher.

Here's Atkins:

The premise: The people of Lilliput, a fictional island nation that appears in the 1726 novel "Gulliver's Travels," want to join an international basketball league. But to be competitive enough for that, they import "Michael Jordan," a man who turns out not to be the NBA Hall-of-Famer but happens to have the same name.

While amusing, Morey remains steadfast Small Ball is the real deal. Per Atkins, Morey said the show will debut in Houston within an 18-month timeframe.

"It's definitely happening," he said.



[h/t CBS Sports]