Cinnabon fails the galaxy with terrible tweet about Carrie Fisher's death
Cinnabon fails the galaxy with terrible tweet about Carrie Fisher's death
The brand-fail force is strong with Cinnabon. Carrie Fisher died at age 60 on Tuesday and while fans of the galaxy's fiercest princess used Twitter to remember the actress and author, Cinnabon traveled to the dark side. The company best known for making malls smell like sweet saturated fat shared a likeness of Princess Leia made from cinnamon with the caption, "RIP Carrie Fisher, you'll always have the best buns in the galaxy." Cinnabon has since removed the tweet, but this isn't the first time it used its cinnamon Leia for a little #brand boost. In May, the company said Fisher had "the second-best rolls in the galaxy." Here’s to the princess with the second-best rolls in the galaxy. #MayThe4thBeWithYou  pic.twitter.com/N03d6ZnQs5 — Cinnabon (@Cinnabon) May 4, 2016 Cinnabon has not yet responded to our request for comment. A brand fail following a really, truly terrible year of celebrity deaths is really, truly icing on the cake (or cinnamon roll, or whatever). BONUS: Original ’Star Wars’ trilogy retold in 8-bit, arcade-style graphics

The brand-fail force is strong with Cinnabon.

Carrie Fisher died at age 60 on Tuesday and while fans of the galaxy's fiercest princess used Twitter to remember the actress and author, Cinnabon traveled to the dark side.

The company best known for making malls smell like sweet saturated fat shared a likeness of Princess Leia made from cinnamon with the caption, "RIP Carrie Fisher, you'll always have the best buns in the galaxy."

Cinnabon has since removed the tweet, but this isn't the first time it used its cinnamon Leia for a little #brand boost. In May, the company said Fisher had "the second-best rolls in the galaxy."

Here’s to the princess with the second-best rolls in the galaxy. #MayThe4thBeWithYou pic.twitter.com/N03d6ZnQs5 — Cinnabon (@Cinnabon) May 4, 2016

Cinnabon has not yet responded to our request for comment.

A brand fail following a really, truly terrible year of celebrity deaths is really, truly icing on the cake (or cinnamon roll, or whatever).