Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant defends referees and slams two-minute report
Durant defends refs, slams 2-minute report
Durant defends refs, slams 2-minute report Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Kerr, fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Rose returns for Knicks; Noah out vs. Lakers Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Heat sign rookie forward White, waive Williams Is it finally John Wall's time? NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale Stephen Curry, Warriors come up short against Kings Kevin Love's game shines bright in New York spotlight Cavaliers hoping for post-deadline, free-agent magic LeBron on Melo: 'I just want him to be happy' Derrick Rose on Knicks: 'The rebuild could be me going, too' Top fantasy basketball waiver-wire pickups at every position Kevin Durant expresses his displeasure with the NBA's "Last Two Minute Report" and does not blame the referees for the Warriors' loss to the Cavaliers on Christmas. (1:10) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers the Golden State Warriors for ESPN.com Contributes to ESPN's TrueHoop blog Hosts TrueHoop TV Live Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment OAKLAND, Calif. -- Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant said he thinks the NBA's "Last Two Minute Report" is "bulls---" and says the league throws its officials under the bus by airing out refs' mistakes. "I think it's bulls--- and they should get rid of it," Durant said Tuesday. Durant's comments come a day after the league's report on the Warriors' 109-108 Christmas Day loss to the Cavaliers said refs missed a foul call that should have gone in Durant's favor in the waning moments of the game. The "Last Two Minute Report" is the league's public review of officiating in the final two minutes of every NBA game. "The refs didn't lose us that game. We lost that game. We could have been better," Durant said. "I think it's bulls--- that the NBA threw the refs under the bus like that." Warriors coach Steve Kerr agreed that the officials can't be blamed for his team's loss. "The officials didn't decide that game," he said. "We had a 14-point lead in the fourth quarter. It was our mistakes that I'm more concerned about." After the game, Durant was asked about the play and responded, "I fell, and I didn't fall on my own." Still, he says he does not favor a system that brings further scrutiny to missed calls. "Just move on," Durant said. "Don't throw the refs under the bus like that. Because the next game, that group of refs or whoever it is, are going to come out, and they're going to ref the game. They're going to be tense when they're reffing the game, and they're going to try to get every play right. They're going to try to be perfect, without just going out and relaxing and making the right call." Durant also said it's hypocritical for the league to fine players for publicly criticizing referees while at the same time publicizing their mistakes. "You can't fine us for when we go out there and criticize them, but throw them under the bus for a two-minute report," Durant argued. "What about the first quarter? What about the second quarter, the third quarter? "Our refs don't deserve that, and they're trying their hardest to get the plays right. ... Game's over, we moving on." Meanwhile, Warriors teammate Draymond Green said he was confused about how hanging-on-the-rim celebrations are inconsistently officiated. Green got a technical for hanging on the rim in the Warriors' 104-74 win over the Jazz on Dec. 20, but LeBron James didn't receive one for hanging on the rim in Sunday's game. "I don't really have any answers for that," Green said. "Seems like stuff changes on the daily. I don't know. I can't judge it. You judge one way, and you think you've got an understanding, and then the understanding you thought you had goes completely a different way the next time. So maybe they'll figure it out one day. That's not really up to me." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Kevin Durant expresses his displeasure with the NBA's "Last Two Minute Report" and does not blame the referees for the Warriors' loss to the Cavaliers on Christmas. (1:10)

OAKLAND, Calif. -- Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant said he thinks the NBA's "Last Two Minute Report" is "bulls---" and says the league throws its officials under the bus by airing out refs' mistakes.

"I think it's bulls--- and they should get rid of it," Durant said Tuesday.

Durant's comments come a day after the league's report on the Warriors' 109-108 Christmas Day loss to the Cavaliers said refs missed a foul call that should have gone in Durant's favor in the waning moments of the game. The "Last Two Minute Report" is the league's public review of officiating in the final two minutes of every NBA game.

Editor's Picks Warriors' Green vows 'to be me' as techs pile up Draymond Green, who has seven technical fouls this season, said he won't change who he is. And the Warriors are fine with that.

NBA: Durant was fouled; LeBron deserved tech Two missed calls helped the Cavaliers in the final two minutes of the team's Christmas win over the Warriors, the NBA announced. 1 Related

"The refs didn't lose us that game. We lost that game. We could have been better," Durant said. "I think it's bulls--- that the NBA threw the refs under the bus like that."

Warriors coach Steve Kerr agreed that the officials can't be blamed for his team's loss.

"The officials didn't decide that game," he said. "We had a 14-point lead in the fourth quarter. It was our mistakes that I'm more concerned about."

After the game, Durant was asked about the play and responded, "I fell, and I didn't fall on my own."

Still, he says he does not favor a system that brings further scrutiny to missed calls.

"Just move on," Durant said. "Don't throw the refs under the bus like that. Because the next game, that group of refs or whoever it is, are going to come out, and they're going to ref the game. They're going to be tense when they're reffing the game, and they're going to try to get every play right. They're going to try to be perfect, without just going out and relaxing and making the right call."

Durant indicated that there's hypocrisy in fining players for publicly criticizing referee decisions while the league publicizes their mistakes. Brian Spurlock/USA Today Sports

Durant also said it's hypocritical for the league to fine players for publicly criticizing referees while at the same time publicizing their mistakes.

"You can't fine us for when we go out there and criticize them, but throw them under the bus for a two-minute report," Durant argued. "What about the first quarter? What about the second quarter, the third quarter?

"Our refs don't deserve that, and they're trying their hardest to get the plays right. ... Game's over, we moving on."

Meanwhile, Warriors teammate Draymond Green said he was confused about how hanging-on-the-rim celebrations are inconsistently officiated. Green got a technical for hanging on the rim in the Warriors' 104-74 win over the Jazz on Dec. 20, but LeBron James didn't receive one for hanging on the rim in Sunday's game.

"I don't really have any answers for that," Green said. "Seems like stuff changes on the daily. I don't know. I can't judge it. You judge one way, and you think you've got an understanding, and then the understanding you thought you had goes completely a different way the next time. So maybe they'll figure it out one day. That's not really up to me."