New York And Florida Dominate 2016 List Of America's Most Expensive ZIP Codes
New York And Florida Dominate 2016 List Of America's Most Expensive ZIP Codes
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Samantha Sharf       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. This apartment in midtown Manhattan 10018 is on the market for $4.3 million. This year, 10018 ranks as the 29th most expensive ZIP code in the country. (The Bryant, 16 West 40th Street, Courtesy of Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group) Demand for high-end homes is finally waning after six years on the boil. The signs of a slowdown are clearest in Silicon Valley, where just a year ago eight-figure list prices, bidding wars and one-week sales were commonplace. Surpassing the Valley this year are ZIPs in New York and California, but sellers in these high-priced havens would be wise to stay humble: Their hometowns could be next. Florida’s Manalapan takes the No. 1 spot on Forbes’ 2016 list of America’s Most Expensive ZIP Codes, with a median listing price of $7.86 million for homes on the market over the last three months, but New York clearly reigns supreme, claiming six of the top 10 slots and a dozen of the top 25. Atherton, Calif., which ruled the list for three years in a row, falls to third. Homes In America's 50 Most Expensive Zip Codes 2016 “The ultra high end, in Florida in particular, is dominating this year’s list and new inventory in Manhattan is dominating this year’s list. In the rest of the country, specifically in Northern California, we are seeing lighter demand,” says Michael Simonsen, chief executive of Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Altos Research, which crunches the data for this list. “The question is, does this mean that those Northern California markets are leading the rest of the country?” This apartment in NYC's Soho 10012 is on the market for $6.2 million. This year, 10012 ranks as the 7th most expensive ZIP code in the country. (David Paler 2016. Stribling Private Brokerage) In 2015 , New York City ZIPs took just three of the top 25 spots on our list. The city’s reemergence in 2016 is largely the result of an inventory shift: After years of exuberant development, a number of ultra-high-end multifamily properties have recently come on the market in Manhattan. (Note: Our list is based on asking prices for homes on the market for the 90 days ending Nov. 18, not sales, to provide a more accurate snapshot of the current state of the market.) But the new high-priced supply enters just as consumer expectations are coming back down to earth. Even the ultra-wealthy are proving less inclined to scoop up high-priced properties than they were a year ago. For someone selling an individual home, the shift in the market may mean waiting a few years to sell or lowering the price. For a developer unloading dozens of apartments, the calculations are more complicated. There may be more room to profit at lower prices, but investors want a return and the optics of taking everything off the market would be terrible. “My hunch is that inventory is coming on line as a result of the demand of the last few years and was slower to come on line and is coming in late,” says Simonsen. “The lead time on a condo project is multiple years. The lead time on [an existing] house in Atherton may be six weeks. So you see [lighter demand] reflected in that much more quickly.” This year 10075 is the priciest ZIP in the Empire State and the second priciest in the country. After barely cracking the top 100 last year, this residential enclave on Manhattan’s Upper East Side rocketed to the top with a median list price of $7.22 million for the 39 homes on the market this fall. Last year the median was $2.15 million. The jump is thanks to a few particularly pricey townhouses.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Demand for high-end homes is finally waning after six years on the boil. The signs of a slowdown are clearest in Silicon Valley, where just a year ago eight-figure list prices, bidding wars and one-week sales were commonplace. Surpassing the Valley this year are ZIPs in New York and California, but sellers in these high-priced havens would be wise to stay humble: Their hometowns could be next.

Florida’s Manalapan takes the No. 1 spot on Forbes’ 2016 list of America’s Most Expensive ZIP Codes, with a median listing price of $7.86 million for homes on the market over the last three months, but New York clearly reigns supreme, claiming six of the top 10 slots and a dozen of the top 25. Atherton, Calif., which ruled the list for three years in a row, falls to third.

“The ultra high end, in Florida in particular, is dominating this year’s list and new inventory in Manhattan is dominating this year’s list. In the rest of the country, specifically in Northern California, we are seeing lighter demand,” says Michael Simonsen, chief executive of Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Altos Research, which crunches the data for this list. “The question is, does this mean that those Northern California markets are leading the rest of the country?”

For the full list of 500 ZIP codes click here.

For a look at some of the most expensive homes in America's Most Expensive ZIP codes click here.

New York

In 2015, New York City ZIPs took just three of the top 25 spots on our list. The city’s reemergence in 2016 is largely the result of an inventory shift: After years of exuberant development, a number of ultra-high-end multifamily properties have recently come on the market in Manhattan. (Note: Our list is based on asking prices for homes on the market for the 90 days ending Nov. 18, not sales, to provide a more accurate snapshot of the current state of the market.) But the new high-priced supply enters just as consumer expectations are coming back down to earth. Even the ultra-wealthy are proving less inclined to scoop up high-priced properties than they were a year ago.

For someone selling an individual home, the shift in the market may mean waiting a few years to sell or lowering the price. For a developer unloading dozens of apartments, the calculations are more complicated. There may be more room to profit at lower prices, but investors want a return and the optics of taking everything off the market would be terrible.

“My hunch is that inventory is coming on line as a result of the demand of the last few years and was slower to come on line and is coming in late,” says Simonsen. “The lead time on a condo project is multiple years. The lead time on [an existing] house in Atherton may be six weeks. So you see [lighter demand] reflected in that much more quickly.”

This year 10075 is the priciest ZIP in the Empire State and the second priciest in the country. After barely cracking the top 100 last year, this residential enclave on Manhattan’s Upper East Side rocketed to the top with a median list price of $7.22 million for the 39 homes on the market this fall. Last year the median was $2.15 million. The jump is thanks to a few particularly pricey townhouses.