5 gutsy highlights from Carrie Fisher's one-woman show
5 gutsy highlights from Carrie Fisher's one-woman show
Carrie Fisher's memory will not not only live on as the indomitable Princess Leia, an outspoken advocate for people with mental illness, and a woman with wicked sense of humor — she also leaves behind a salty career on stage. Never one to hide from her history or keep her past private, Fisher debuted a one-woman show in 2006 based on her memoir, both called . On stage, she gave a frank, thoughtful and uproarious take on her unique life with all its peaks and valleys. It's been 6 yrs since the premiere of @carrieffisher 's #WishfulDrinking . Loved production designing for such a hilarious & wonderful woman. pic.twitter.com/t3VTzoEg7h — David Korins (@DavidKorins) December 13, 2016 From the Star Wars juggernaut to mental health, she pulled back the curtain on a life lived in the shadow of a global phenomenon and showed the world, for the umpteenth time, that she was so much more than a princess. SEE ALSO: A life in the stars: Carrie Fisher in pictures In memory of her singular honesty and wit, here are some of the best highlights from : 1. Bipolar woman of the year Fisher was very proud not only to be the face of a Pez dispenser, but she also joked about feeling blessed to feature in an abnormal psychology textbook. 2. No underwear in space George Lucas apparently used some underhanded, and probably untrue, facts about outer space to ensure that Fisher went without a bra while filming. 3. On George Lucas owning her image "If you haven't been merchandized for the last 30 years, you haven't lived." 4. She was also unintimidated by a life-size Leia sex doll Watching Carrie Fischer at Studio 54 perform her 1-woman show 'Wishful Drinking'. LMAO. Life-size Princess Leia sex doll, on stage! — Thomas Richman (@thomasrichman) October 22, 2009 Watching Carrie Fisher's Wishful Drinking. Excellent. Oh, she just shared the stage w the "Leia Full Size Sex Doll." 1 in my friend's house. — Ken Lowenberg (@klowenberg) December 17, 2010 @heatherannlewis  @jerssica You guys need to see Wishful Drinking. Princess Leia sex doll!!! — boricua (@mprlibre) September 24, 2009 5.  Invitation to a mental hospital "It's a really, really exclusive invitation." The woman may have started her career as a princess, but she lived her life like a queen. Hollywood — and beyond — will never be the same without her.

Carrie Fisher's memory will not not only live on as the indomitable Princess Leia, an outspoken advocate for people with mental illness, and a woman with wicked sense of humor — she also leaves behind a salty career on stage.

Never one to hide from her history or keep her past private, Fisher debuted a one-woman show in 2006 based on her memoir, both called Wishful Drinking.

On stage, she gave a frank, thoughtful and uproarious take on her unique life with all its peaks and valleys.

It's been 6 yrs since the premiere of @carrieffisher's #WishfulDrinking. Loved production designing for such a hilarious & wonderful woman. pic.twitter.com/t3VTzoEg7h — David Korins (@DavidKorins) December 13, 2016

From the Star Wars juggernaut to mental health, she pulled back the curtain on a life lived in the shadow of a global phenomenon and showed the world, for the umpteenth time, that she was so much more than a princess.

In memory of her singular honesty and wit, here are some of the best highlights from Wishful Drinking:

1. Bipolar woman of the year

Fisher was very proud not only to be the face of a Pez dispenser, but she also joked about feeling blessed to feature in an abnormal psychology textbook.

2. No underwear in space

George Lucas apparently used some underhanded, and probably untrue, facts about outer space to ensure that Fisher went without a bra while filming.

3. On George Lucas owning her image

"If you haven't been merchandized for the last 30 years, you haven't lived."

4. She was also unintimidated by a life-size Leia sex doll





Watching Carrie Fischer at Studio 54 perform her 1-woman show 'Wishful Drinking'. LMAO. Life-size Princess Leia sex doll, on stage! — Thomas Richman (@thomasrichman) October 22, 2009

Watching Carrie Fisher's Wishful Drinking. Excellent. Oh, she just shared the stage w the "Leia Full Size Sex Doll." 1 in my friend's house. — Ken Lowenberg (@klowenberg) December 17, 2010

@heatherannlewis @jerssica You guys need to see Wishful Drinking. Princess Leia sex doll!!! — boricua (@mprlibre) September 24, 2009

5. Invitation to a mental hospital

"It's a really, really exclusive invitation."

The woman may have started her career as a princess, but she lived her life like a queen. Hollywood — and beyond — will never be the same without her.