Trailer Of Nawazuddin's 'Haramkhor', SRK's Inspiring Speech And More From The World Of Ent!
Trailer Of Nawazuddin's 'Haramkhor', SRK's Inspiring Speech And More From The World Of Ent!
Trailer Of Nawazuddin's 'Haramkhor', SRK's Inspiring Speech And More From The World Of Ent! 1. After surpassing all censor troubles, the trailer of Shweta Tripathi and Nawazuddin Siddiqui's was finally unveiled online हरामखोर आ रहा है जनवरी 2017 में, देखना मत भूलिएगा http://www.gossipganj.com/bollywood/film/upcoming-movies/haramkhor-release-date-declared/1616 #gossipganj #followme #haramkhor #release #date #declared A photo posted by GossipGanj (@gossipganj) on Dec 23, 2016 at 6:29am PST   Starring Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Masaan actress Shweta Tripathi, the trailer of Haramkhor was released online. Twitter has reacted positively to the trailer. 2. After receiving his doctorate from Maulana Azad National Urdu University, SRK gave an inspirational speech that was just about perfect One of the excerpts of the speech reads, “I feel proud when I see people studying and educating themselves. There is nothing greater than education in the world. My father was a highly educated man. But he was also poor. He never got any job. He hardly had any money. Whatever business he started despite being so educated, they were all failures. But he gave me a lot of love. Because he didn’t have any money on every birthday of mine, he used to give me some of his old things and through those, I got my learnings." 3. Salman Khan celebrated his 51st birthday with close family and friends and the pictures prove that he had a gala time Happy Birthday Salman❤😍 - - #salmankhan #salman #beingsalmankhan #beinghuman #salmankhanbirthday #salmanbirthday #happybirthdaysalmankhan #happybirthdaysalman #aayushsharma #ahilkhansharma #panvel #arpitafarms #bollywood A photo posted by Salman Khan 👑 (@salmankhanplanet) on Dec 26, 2016 at 1:48pm PST   4. Photographs from real sisters Geeta and Babita Phogat's latest photoshoot is winning the internet Recently photographer Deepak Ansuia Prasad Bhardwaj did a fun shoot at the Guru Shyam Lal Akhada in New Delhi with the real Phogat sisters for Harper's Bazaar Bride and the results are stunning. The duo pulled off Indian attire with sunglasses and looked absolutely kickass! Even when Katrina and Anushka had no answer to KJo's question of considering Deepika a 'good friend', she on the other hand at the coolest reply. Deepika took to Twitter to tweet, "These girls were on fire! what a fun episode!"

1. After surpassing all censor troubles, the trailer of Shweta Tripathi and Nawazuddin Siddiqui's Haramkhor was finally unveiled online

Starring Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Masaan actress Shweta Tripathi, the trailer of Haramkhor was released online. Twitter has reacted positively to the trailer.

2. After receiving his doctorate from Maulana Azad National Urdu University, SRK gave an inspirational speech that was just about perfect

Twitter

One of the excerpts of the speech reads, “I feel proud when I see people studying and educating themselves. There is nothing greater than education in the world. My father was a highly educated man. But he was also poor. He never got any job. He hardly had any money. Whatever business he started despite being so educated, they were all failures. But he gave me a lot of love. Because he didn’t have any money on every birthday of mine, he used to give me some of his old things and through those, I got my learnings."

3. Salman Khan celebrated his 51st birthday with close family and friends and the pictures prove that he had a gala time

According to reports and pictures that are flooding our social media timelines, Salman rang in his 51st at his Panvel farmhouse with brothers Arbaaz-Sohail, sisters Alvira-Arpita, nephew Ahil and his close friends from the fraternity. And yes, his 'alleged GF' Iulia Vantur was by his side too.

4. Photographs from real Dangal sisters Geeta and Babita Phogat's latest photoshoot is winning the internet

Recently photographer Deepak Ansuia Prasad Bhardwaj did a fun shoot at the Guru Shyam Lal Akhada in New Delhi with the real Phogat sisters for Harper's Bazaar Bride and the results are stunning. The duo pulled off Indian attire with sunglasses and looked absolutely kickass!

5. Deepika Padukone had the coolest reaction to Katrina and Anushka Sharma's Koffee With Karan episode

Even when Katrina and Anushka had no answer to KJo's question of considering Deepika a 'good friend', she on the other hand at the coolest reply. Deepika took to Twitter to tweet, "These girls were on fire! what a fun episode!"