South Korea's obsession with top marks is costing its youth



South Korea's obsession with top marks is costing its youth

Posted

I remember peeping into my pencil case, my fingers fumbling through the pens and coloured textas, as I discreetly looked for the tiny piece of paper that was scribbled with the answers to my weekly Chinese character-spelling test.

I was 13 years old in middle school in Seoul's Gangnam district.

Wrong for me to cheat I know, but for me, it was an act of sheer desperation to minimise the number of times of being caned.

Every word I spelt wrong equated to one painful strike to my palm.

I was already struggling to learn my mother-tongue and to write in Chinese felt like an impossible task for me to master.

I had moved back to South Korea after eight years living in Sydney with my family. I could barely read or write Korean but I was forced to attend a local middle school.

My days were quite literally jam-packed.

I woke up at 6:30 every morning to get to school by 8:00am. Quiet reading or self-studying was for an hour, and then classes began at 9:00am.

School clocked off at 4:00pm, and I had just enough time to duck home for dinner before I was off again to Hagwon, a private tuition college, commonly known as cram schools.

I took Korean, science, maths and art classes three to four days a week — fortunately I didn't have to take English classes like the others.

The proverbial expression "practise makes perfect" was ingrained in us, and for each subject, we went through textbook after textbook, going through questions over and over again.

When classes finished at 9:00pm or 10:00pm, students either had the option to stay back to do extra study until 11:00pm or go home.

I went to bed at midnight and then would rise at 6:30am to do it all over again.

Effort valued more than ability in South Korea

I remember my parents agonising over whether they should enrol me into another class at Hagwon.

But my mother, a former science high school teacher, knew that if I was to keep up in school, I had to attend.

We had school homework almost every day and failure to complete meant you were punished in whatever way the subject teacher preferred.

Our maths teacher made us come to school an hour early at 7:00am to sweep the corridors and classrooms.

Our science teacher made the boys do push-ups on the ground with their feet propped up high against the narrow chalkboard holder, while the girls had to squat 40 times holding their ears.

Occasionally the teacher got out the broomstick and whacked us on our bottom.

It all sounds like a nightmare, but corporal punishment was culturally accepted at the time and so the students never dared to fight back.

In South Korea, academic success of a student is seen as a source of pride and honour for the family and society at large.

Schools generally focus on the belief that effort rather than natural intelligence or ability is the key to success, and so the pursuit for academic excellence is deeply embedded in children from an early age.

It meant entrance into a good high school, a good university, a good job and then hopefully a good partner.

The students are therefore fiercely competitive, and parents are willing to devote everything to help their children have that extra edge in school or later in life.

Teachers are also well respected in society and often have the full support of the parents in their child's education.

Style of education resulting in suicides and fewer births

But this has come at a huge cost.

Suicide continues to be the leading cause of death among teens and young people in South Korea. Many often blame the pressure and relentless focus on education and exams.

The Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs also found the financial burden to educate a child in South Korea has become one of the contributing factors to the rapid decline in the country's birth rate, with many opting to have one child or no children at all.

The total fertility rate is currently one of the lowest among OECD countries, hovering at around 1.2 in recent years.

I moved back to Sydney to complete my secondary education after just two years of schooling in South Korea.

They may have been short but those sleepless nights at such a young age were a brutal experience.

Today Korean students still study well into the night but there have been some government efforts to curb the $20 billion private education industry.

Seoul and other cities have placed a 10:00pm curfew and attempted to fine places that open past the late hour.

Corporal punishment has also been banned in all schools across the country after the emergence of social media as well as parents taking a stand.

Despite the gruelling experience, I will remember the high work ethic that was instilled in every South Korean child from a young age.

Most teachers cared for the students' learning and many went out of their way to make sure they were keeping up with the rest of the class.

Teachers saw their class performance as a reflection of their teaching as they themselves were assessed against each other.

South Korea continues to perform well in the Programme International Student Assessment (PISA), and the 2015 results show it is still among the top eight of the OECD countries.

However, the longitudinal negative effects of this kind of education are starting to show, and it remains to be seen whether South Korea will be able to maintain its position as one of the leading education systems into the future.

Topics: education, education-industry, schools, children, korea-republic-of