Video Is No Longer An Accessory For Marketing - Here's What You Need To Know
Video Is No Longer An Accessory For Marketing - Here's What You Need To Know
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ellevate       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By: Colleen Davie Janes

If you have a business, it's online to some extent. Video is now a marketing necessity to be seen and heard, and to build your recognition and trust factor. Simple text and image do not work anymore.

Some interesting stats on the use of video in marketing:

Just reading these stats makes me nervous. They make me feel like I'm not doing enough, and I teach video and on-camera presentation. A video web presence is no longer an accessory; it’s now elemental to online businesses, entrepreneurs, coaches, teachers, specialist, gurus, instructors, preachers or whatever you are. And really, who isn’t online? But what those statistics above really tell you, is that not doing video should scare you a lot more than taking the plunge.

Video is one of the most powerful tools we have online to grow our brand authority and our know/like/trust factor.

I conducted my own experiment on my business page, so here’s some first-hand evidence:

I scheduled a Facebook Live broadcast on my business page for a Friday evening. (Note: Bad time to go live, but what can you do?) To promote it, I did a quick one-minute Facebook Live broadcast that morning. Using my iPhone, with the backdrop of Eastern Parkway’s promenade in Brooklyn, I created a quick Facebook Live video and invited everyone to the evening broadcast, “Hey, check in tonight because I’m talking live about making videos and Murphy’s Law.” That quick promo video’s post had an organic reach of over 2.5 times the amount of people signed up for my business page. And it’s still growing. (The metrics are based on the reach of my page; at the time 205 people, and the organic view of the video, 560 or so).

I also posted an image with text inviting people to the same evening’s live broadcast. I did this twice over the course of the day with two different images, just to see the difference. Image number one received four views. Four! Image number two received... one view.