Eric Prydz Releases Hopeful Pryda Track 'Lillo' in Honor of Fan Who Passed of Cancer: Listen
Eric Prydz Releases Hopeful Pryda Track 'Lillo' in Honor of Fan Who Passed of Cancer: Listen
Eric Prydz Releases Hopeful Pryda Track 'Lillo' in Honor of Fan Who Passed of Cancer: Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Of all the meaningful lives lost in 2016, Eric Prydz was most closely touched by that of James Lillo -- a fan with a kind heart and winning personality. He was also a victim of cancer, and though Prydz was moved to perform a special concert for his fan, Lillo tragically passed away before the show's date. Prydz was devastated by the sudden loss, but he didn't let the cause die. He performed not one show, but two in Lillo's honor, and donated all $60,000-plus proceeds to the Cancer Research Institute. Then, he released a beautiful new Pryda song, “Lillo,” in the man's honor. “Lillo” is by no means a sad song. It's upbeat and uplifting, it's '80s synths full of hope and resilience. Even as it reaches a soft refrain in the middle, as if to take a moment of reflection on the special life that was lost, the mood builds back slowly to show that this is not the end.  Pryda debuted the song in his latest Epic radio program. He also jacked into the speakers of a random electronics store and played the song for all to hear. Now every time you listen, a part of Lillo's bright spirit is with us all. "Lillo" is out for official release Wednesday, Dec. 28, but you can listen to the track below. Thanks to all who bought tickets & donated for James. We raised $60K+ for Cancer Research Institute. I think we have all made a difference. pic.twitter.com/GMIFxsMHW3 I just paired my phone to a speaker in an electronics store and blasted out Lillo -- @ericprydz  pic.twitter.com/RZ9E4oPUoS  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Of all the meaningful lives lost in 2016, Eric Prydz was most closely touched by that of James Lillo -- a fan with a kind heart and winning personality. He was also a victim of cancer, and though Prydz was moved to perform a special concert for his fan, Lillo tragically passed away before the show's date.

Prydz was devastated by the sudden loss, but he didn't let the cause die. He performed not one show, but two in Lillo's honor, and donated all $60,000-plus proceeds to the Cancer Research Institute. Then, he released a beautiful new Pryda song, “Lillo,” in the man's honor.

“Lillo” is by no means a sad song. It's upbeat and uplifting, it's '80s synths full of hope and resilience. Even as it reaches a soft refrain in the middle, as if to take a moment of reflection on the special life that was lost, the mood builds back slowly to show that this is not the end.

Pryda debuted the song in his latest Epic radio program. He also jacked into the speakers of a random electronics store and played the song for all to hear. Now every time you listen, a part of Lillo's bright spirit is with us all.

"Lillo" is out for official release Wednesday, Dec. 28, but you can listen to the track below.

Thanks to all who bought tickets & donated for James. We raised $60K+ for Cancer Research Institute. I think we have all made a difference. pic.twitter.com/GMIFxsMHW3 — Eric Prydz (@ericprydz) December 20, 2016