South Korea pension fund chief detained by special prosecutor



South Korea pension fund chief detained by special prosecutor

Posted

A special prosecution team investigating the widening influence-peddling scandal engulfing South Korea has placed the chairman of the National Pension Service (NPS) under emergency arrest.

The special prosecutor's office did not provide further details immediately on the arrest of NPS Chairman Moon Hyung-pyo but had said on Monday it had raided his home on suspicion of abuse of power.

The special prosecutor has been looking into whether Mr Moon pressured the pension fund, which is the third-largest in the world with 545 trillion won ($626.69 billion) under management at the end of September, to support the $11.1-billion merger last year of two Samsung Group affiliates.

He was head of the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the time, which runs the NPS.

Arriving at the special prosecutor's office, Mr Moon said he would cooperate with prosecutors and did not elaborate when asked if he pressured the NPS to vote for the merger.

On December 9, the NPS called "groundless" a media report that said Mr Moon had pressured the NPS to support the merger.

A spokeswoman for the NPS today said it was "watching the situation" and declined to comment further.

Prosecution probing fund's support for controversial merger

The NPS was a major shareholder in Samsung Group affiliates Cheil Industries Inc and Samsung C&T Corp when they merged last year.

The tie-up was criticised by some investors for strengthening the founding family's control of the group, South Korea's largest "chaebol", or conglomerate, at the expense of other shareholders.

Investigators are examining whether Samsung's support for a business and foundations backed by a friend of impeached President Park Geun-hye may have been connected to NPS support for the merger, a prosecution official told Reuters last week.

Investigators raided NPS offices last week and in November.

At a parliamentary hearing this month, Samsung Group scion Jay Y Lee denied allegations from lawmakers that Samsung lobbied to get the NPS to vote in favour of the merger, or that it made contributions seeking something in return.

A Samsung Group spokeswoman declined further comment on Wednesday.

Ms Park was impeached on December 9 and has been stripped of her powers, although she remains in the presidential Blue House.

She has been accused of colluding with her long-time friend Choi Soon-sil to pressure businesses to support foundations run by Ms Choi, which in turn supported her government's policies.

Reuters

Topics: world-politics, korea-republic-of