After Carrie Fisher's Death, Stars Share Memories of Beloved 'Star Wars' Actress
After Carrie Fisher's Death, Stars Share Memories of Beloved 'Star Wars' Actress
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance After Carrie Fisher's Death, Stars Share Memories of Beloved 'Star Wars' Actress  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The passing of beloved actress Carrie Fisher on Tuesday (Dec. 27) adds yet another devastating death to a long list of icons we've lost this year. Best known for her role as Princess Leia in the series, Fisher died a few days after suffering a massive heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles. She was 60. Upon news of her death, her celebrity friends and fans took to Twitter to share memories and photos.  Her co-star Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker, wrote only, "No words." Actor Dan Aykroyd, with whom Fisher co-starred in and was briefly engaged, shared: "Our beautiful, brilliant, funny, wise, kind and generous Blues Sister, So ironic. Xmas was Carrie's favorite thing next to babies." no words #Devastated  pic.twitter.com/R9Xo7IBKmh "Our beautiful brilliant funny wise kind and generous Blues Sister -so ironic - Xmas was Carrie's favorite thing next to babies." Carrie Fisher dedicated her platform to mental health awareness & female empowerment. She is a reason + reminder to keep up your fight. RIP . @CarriefFisher was a brilliant writer, actor, and friend. She was so much fun. I can't believe she's gone. https://t.co/wpxGvBWA0b I'm deeply saddened to learn of the death of Carrie Fisher. I will miss our banterings. A wonderful talent & light has been extinguished. RIP Carrie Fisher -- Carrie Fisher "Ugh,will everybody stop all of this?" Us "no, let us gush, you just have to take it" Carrie Fisher didn't make it. I am so terribly sorry, and send my sincere condolences to her family, friends and fans all around the world. Princess....& The Revolution #CarrieFisher @ Death Star https://t.co/JRwunZmqPY Amazing princess. Kickass warrior. Incredible writer. Kind soul. My first crush at 6. RIP Carrie Fisher...galaxies of fans mourn your loss. Carrie Fisher was smart, funny, talented, surprising, and always a hell of a fun time to be around. Family Guy will miss her immensely. I can't believe Carrie Fisher's gone. Heart goes out to her family. Terrible. Fuck 2016. Carrie Fisher has passed, she was funnier&smarter than anyone had the right to be. Sail On Silver Girl. Condolences Debbie & Billie R.I.P. 2016 is killing me. So sad in one week losing two greats. First George Michael now Carrie fisher. So sad. I just can't ------! Rip both of you Carrie Fisher. RIP. What a talent. What a year. pic.twitter.com/yEFfv2GN6K RIP Carrie Fisher May the force be with you always ... pic.twitter.com/mOx3RwFl6e I saw Star Wars IV over 50 times in the theater in 1977. @carrieffisher helped shape my entire life! RIP :(  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The passing of beloved Star Wars actress Carrie Fisher on Tuesday (Dec. 27) adds yet another devastating death to a long list of icons we've lost this year.

Best known for her role as Princess Leia in the series, Fisher died a few days after suffering a massive heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles. She was 60.

Upon news of her death, her celebrity friends and fans took to Twitter to share memories and photos.

Her Star Wars co-star Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker, wrote only, "No words."

Actor Dan Aykroyd, with whom Fisher co-starred in The Blues Brothers and was briefly engaged, shared: "Our beautiful, brilliant, funny, wise, kind and generous Blues Sister, So ironic. Xmas was Carrie's favorite thing next to babies."

"Our beautiful brilliant funny wise kind and generous Blues Sister -so ironic - Xmas was Carrie's favorite thing next to babies." — Dan Aykroyd (@dan_aykroyd) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher dedicated her platform to mental health awareness & female empowerment. She is a reason + reminder to keep up your fight. RIP — h (@halsey) December 27, 2016

.@CarriefFisher was a brilliant writer, actor, and friend. She was so much fun. I can't believe she's gone. https://t.co/wpxGvBWA0b — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) December 27, 2016

I'm deeply saddened to learn of the death of Carrie Fisher. I will miss our banterings. A wonderful talent & light has been extinguished. — William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) December 27, 2016

RIP Carrie Fisher -- — Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher "Ugh,will everybody stop all of this?"

Us "no, let us gush, you just have to take it" — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher didn't make it. I am so terribly sorry, and send my sincere condolences to her family, friends and fans all around the world. — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) December 27, 2016

Amazing princess. Kickass warrior. Incredible writer. Kind soul. My first crush at 6. RIP Carrie Fisher...galaxies of fans mourn your loss. — Chris Hardwick (@hardwick) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher was smart, funny, talented, surprising, and always a hell of a fun time to be around. Family Guy will miss her immensely. — Seth MacFarlane (@SethMacFarlane) December 27, 2016

I can't believe Carrie Fisher's gone. Heart goes out to her family. Terrible. Fuck 2016. — Kat Dennings (@OfficialKat) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher has passed, she was funnier&smarter than anyone had the right to be. Sail On Silver Girl. Condolences Debbie & Billie

R.I.P. — Whoopi Goldberg (@WhoopiGoldberg) December 27, 2016

2016 is killing me. So sad in one week losing two greats. First George Michael now Carrie fisher. So sad. I just can't ------! Rip both of you — AJ McLean (@skulleeroz) December 27, 2016

Carrie Fisher. RIP. What a talent. What a year. pic.twitter.com/yEFfv2GN6K — Zach Braff (@zachbraff) December 27, 2016

RIP

Carrie Fisher



May the force be with you always

... pic.twitter.com/mOx3RwFl6e — Ryan Adams (@TheRyanAdams) December 27, 2016