Gujarati Diamond Multi-Millionaire Pays For The Weddings OF 236 Fatherless Girls
Gujarati Diamond Multi-Millionaire Pays For The Weddings OF 236 Fatherless Girls
Gujarati Diamond Multi-Millionaire Pays For The Weddings OF 236 Fatherless Girls 236 fatherless girls, including five Muslims and one Christian, were married off in a mass wedding programme to be organized by PP Savani Group in Surat 5. Two bridegrooms from PP Savani family would also enter into wedlock at this mass marriage function. Mahesh Savani, diamond tycoon and noted philanthropist told the Times of India: "We are lucky to be performing 'kanyadaan' of these girls. This would take the number of fatherless girls to have been married off by our group to 708. Hindus will be married as per the Vedic rituals while the marriages of Muslims and Christian brides will be solemnized as per their religious customs at PP Savani Chaitanya Vidya Sankul Ground. There will be garba, sangeet and mehndi too." Savani's family has organised mass weddings for girls in the past, and also claimed to have created a record on applying mehndi on over 700 girls at one of the mass marriage functions. In the past, he has offered to sponsor the education of the children of 18 martyrs

236 fatherless girls, including five Muslims and one Christian, were married off in a mass wedding programme to be organized by PP Savani Group in Surat 5. Two bridegrooms from PP Savani family would also enter into wedlock at this mass marriage function.

AFP/Getty

Mahesh Savani, diamond tycoon and noted philanthropist told the Times of India: "We are lucky to be performing 'kanyadaan' of these girls. This would take the number of fatherless girls to have been married off by our group to 708. Hindus will be married as per the Vedic rituals while the marriages of Muslims and Christian brides will be solemnized as per their religious customs at PP Savani Chaitanya Vidya Sankul Ground. There will be garba, sangeet and mehndi too."

Savani's family has organised mass weddings for girls in the past, and also claimed to have created a record on applying mehndi on over 700 girls at one of the mass marriage functions.

In the past, he has offered to sponsor the education of the children of 18 martyrs