Phil Jackson and Jeanie Buss Announce the End of Their Engagement
Phil Jackson and Jeanie Buss Announce the End of Their Engagement
Longtime NBA power couple Phil Jackson and Jeanie Buss announced via Twitter late Tuesday night that they were ending their engagement. The statement, posted to Jackson's Twitter account but signed by both halves of the now-former couple, said that "professional obligation" and "geographic distance" were to blame, but that they still "expect to remain supportive" of each other. pic.twitter.com/ Jackson, who coached the Chicago Bulls and the Los Angeles Lakers to a combined 11 championships, is now the president of the New York Knicks. Buss is also president (and part-owner) of an NBA team, but one 3,000 miles away—the Lakers. Buss followed up the initial statement with another Twitter post saying that she had "nothing but love and respect" for Jackson. Nothing but love and respect for this man. @PhilJackson11  https://t.co/jlgNhnZvOA Jackson and Buss had been together since 1999, and had been engaged since 2013.

Longtime NBA power couple Phil Jackson and Jeanie Buss announced via Twitter late Tuesday night that they were ending their engagement. The statement, posted to Jackson's Twitter account but signed by both halves of the now-former couple, said that "professional obligation" and "geographic distance" were to blame, but that they still "expect to remain supportive" of each other.

Jackson, who coached the Chicago Bulls and the Los Angeles Lakers to a combined 11 championships, is now the president of the New York Knicks. Buss is also president (and part-owner) of an NBA team, but one 3,000 miles away—the Lakers.

Buss followed up the initial statement with another Twitter post saying that she had "nothing but love and respect" for Jackson.

Nothing but love and respect for this man. @PhilJackson11 https://t.co/jlgNhnZvOA — Jeanie Buss (@JeanieBuss) December 28, 2016

Jackson and Buss had been together since 1999, and had been engaged since 2013.