Trump Tower lobby evacuation prompted by bag of toys
Trump Tower lobby evacuation prompted by bag of toys
Bag of toys prompts evacuation of Trump Tower lobby Updated 2323 GMT (0723 HKT) December 27, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Trump team tweets a thank you, and a Twitter spat ensues The city of New York is spending millions on security at the President-elect's building Trump Tower was briefly evacuated Tuesday afternoon after authorities discovered a suspicious package that was later determined to be a bag of children's toys. I think he's here🙃 pic.twitter.com/Tnza5XKhYE President Obama campaigned hard (and personally) in the very important swing states, and lost.The voters wanted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! Back to work here at Trump Tower after a false alarm. Thanks NYPD No problem. We'll send you the bill. https://t.co/mxbUqzgHds Eric Phillips- Spokesperson for @NYCMayor  @BilldeBlasio - you are an embarrassment to the @NYCMayorsOffice & the amazing #NYPD . https://t.co/kPX9go1gl4 CNN's Steve Brusk and Dominique Debucquoy-Dodley contributed to this report.

Story highlights Trump team tweets a thank you, and a Twitter spat ensues

The city of New York is spending millions on security at the President-elect's building

(CNN) Trump Tower was briefly evacuated Tuesday afternoon after authorities discovered a suspicious package that was later determined to be a bag of children's toys.

The package was discovered in the lobby of the New York City skyscraper, where President-elect Donald Trump resides. He was in Florida at the time.

A video posted to Twitter by user @cielo_celest showed people dashing by elevators as a police officer swings his arm and yells, "Out! Out!"

New York Police Department Det. Hubert Reyes told CNN that the package was investigated by the department's bomb squad. The Secret Service was involved in the investigation as well, Reyes said.

"Suspicious package at Trump Tower has been examined by NYPD Bomb Squad. Deemed to be an unattended bag and safe," police tweeted. Earlier police spokesman J. Peter Donald tweeted the package was in the lobby.