Daisy Ridley's touching tribute to 'predecessor' Carrie Fisher
Daisy Ridley's touching tribute to 'predecessor' Carrie Fisher
Carrie Fisher's Star Wars family have mourned their beloved co-star's death. From Harrison Ford to Mark Hamill 's touching tribute to a "gorgeous, fiercely independent & ferociously funny, take-charge woman." SEE ALSO: 'Star Wars' actress Carrie Fisher has died at 60 And this particular tribute — from one Star Wars leading lady to another — also feels special. Daisy Ridley, who plays Rey in said : "Devastated at this monumental loss. How lucky we all are to have known her, and how awful that we have to say goodbye." "I'm your predecessor" Ridley could be considered a successor to Fisher in the franchise. And Fisher seemed to confirm that she was passing the baton to Ridley when she spoke to the newcomer in 2015 for magazine . "People have been asking me about crushes out of the original film, and I say you every time," Ridley told her. "They were like, 'Is there anyone you particularly look up to?' And I'm like, "Well, Carrie, obviously." "That's good. You didn't like Mark [Hamill] or Harrison [Ford]? This is the only time we'd ever have this conversation." Fisher replies with her usual wit "Of course, I like them both! But you're a kick-ass woman," Ridley says. "I'm your predecessor, I think," Fisher says. "Exactly. You paved the way for all the girls," Ridley replies. "It was my gravel! Girl gravel! Fisher says. We'll miss you, Carrie. pic.twitter.com/iWOFhb2kJ9 — Daisy Ridley❄️ (@_DaisyRidley_) December 27, 2016 SEE ALSO: Carrie Fisher obituary

Carrie Fisher's Star Wars family have mourned their beloved co-star's death.

From Harrison Ford to Mark Hamill's touching tribute to a "gorgeous, fiercely independent & ferociously funny, take-charge woman."

And this particular tribute — from one Star Wars leading lady to another — also feels special.

Daisy Ridley, who plays Rey in Star Wars: The Force Awakens, said: "Devastated at this monumental loss. How lucky we all are to have known her, and how awful that we have to say goodbye."

"I'm your predecessor"

Ridley could be considered a successor to Fisher in the franchise. And Fisher seemed to confirm that she was passing the baton to Ridley when she spoke to the newcomer in 2015 for Interview magazine.

"People have been asking me about crushes out of the original film, and I say you every time," Ridley told her. "They were like, 'Is there anyone you particularly look up to?' And I'm like, "Well, Carrie, obviously."

"That's good. You didn't like Mark [Hamill] or Harrison [Ford]? This is the only time we'd ever have this conversation." Fisher replies with her usual wit

"Of course, I like them both! But you're a kick-ass woman," Ridley says.

"I'm your predecessor, I think," Fisher says.

"Exactly. You paved the way for all the girls," Ridley replies.

"It was my gravel! Girl gravel! Girl-vel!" Fisher says.

We'll miss you, Carrie.

SEE ALSO: Carrie Fisher obituary