2017 in Charts: Time to Buckle Up
2017 in charts
2017 in Charts: Time to Buckle Up   Markets  Elaine He oversees Bloomberg Gadfly's data visualization work in Europe and also pursues her own columns combining business and markets coverage. Before joining Bloomberg, she was a graphics editor at the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  That slack-jawed look of surprise investors were making for most of 2016? It's not going anywhere. Political volatility is here to stay. For almost a third of high-grade credit investors, populism in politics is the biggest concern for the next 12 months, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research report published on Dec. 19. In a similar survey in October, before Donald Trump's surprise election win, fewer than one in 10 had put it as their main worry. They have reason to be concerned. The Netherlands, France and Germany all hold national elections in coming months. With unemployment and stagnant wages fuelling voters' antipathy to immigration, there's the risk of a populist upset. These charts show the gains parties from Germany's AfD to France's National Front have made in recent opinion polls. None of these populist challengers may win -- Germany's constitution is designed to promote consensual coalitions. But the severity of the perceived threat can still move markets: look how the pound rose and fell with chances of a remain vote. And none of what caused the volatility of 2016 is going away. There's still a Brexit to be negotiated, and Trump takes office on Jan. 20. Buckle up. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at ehe36@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at eevans3@bloomberg.net Google Play's Starting Spot in China's Market Lukewarm Welcome  Google Won't Play in China   Tech  Stock Surge Revisionist History  Gary Cohn Doesn't Need a Time Machine   Markets  Curves Showing Not So Fast  JPMorgan's China News Is Great...for China   Markets  Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer  Outsized Robot Cars  Blessed Are the Chipmakers   Tech  Thin Cushion Yurt Hurt  Don't Play With Mongolian Fire   Markets

That slack-jawed look of surprise investors were making for most of 2016? It's not going anywhere. Political volatility is here to stay.

What Frightens the Bond Vigilantes? Populism and rising yields are bond investors' top concerns Source: BofA Merrill Lynch

For almost a third of high-grade credit investors, populism in politics is the biggest concern for the next 12 months, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research report published on Dec. 19. In a similar survey in October, before Donald Trump's surprise election win, fewer than one in 10 had put it as their main worry.

They have reason to be concerned. The Netherlands, France and Germany all hold national elections in coming months. With unemployment and stagnant wages fuelling voters' antipathy to immigration, there's the risk of a populist upset. These charts show the gains parties from Germany's AfD to France's National Front have made in recent opinion polls.

Right Surge Geert Wilders' Freedom Party has regained its lead in the Dutch opinion polling Source: Peil.nl

Neck and Neck French conservative and nationalist parties are outstripping the left in opinion polls Source: polling averages

Coalition Forces The AfD is taking a growing share of the vote from all parties, something that could make it harder for Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU/CSU to form a coalition after the election Source: Wahlrecht.de

None of these populist challengers may win -- Germany's constitution is designed to promote consensual coalitions. But the severity of the perceived threat can still move markets: look how the pound rose and fell with chances of a remain vote.

And none of what caused the volatility of 2016 is going away. There's still a Brexit to be negotiated, and Trump takes office on Jan. 20. Buckle up.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Elaine He in London at ehe36@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net