ADPVoice: How To Find The Best Tool For Measuring Your Employees' Productivity
ADPVoice: How To Find The Best Tool For Measuring Your Employees' Productivity
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  ADP       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Productivity tools are everywhere these days. There are tools to measure employee output, manage projects and track online activities, to name only a few. In fact, there are so many tools to track and measure productivity, employees could spend more time fiddling with them than getting work done. But it doesn’t have to be that way — and it shouldn’t be. The goal is to find the productivity tool that can help make your employees and business more efficient. And the more automated the tool, the better, according to James McGeady, ADP’s senior director of product marketing. “The less manual task work people are doing, the more time they’re getting back to be productive, whether that’s serving patients, serving customers or whatever it is that their primary job focus should be,” he said. Here are four things to look for in a productivity tool to ensure it’s the right resource for your business: “There are many different ways to look at productivity, and a big factor in the way you define and measure it depends on the business that you’re in,” McGeady said. In manufacturing, for example, businesses often track everything a worker does, including widgets produced, scrap and rework, and idle time. Engineers can use that data to find more efficient ways for people on the shop floor to work. The retail industry is different. Managers may not care how many sweaters are folded per shift, but they will want to know the number of transactions in a day or an hour, basket size, sales per labor hour and conversion rates. Rather than engineer new systems to improve those numbers, management may track good data back to an individual salesperson and schedule that employee during key shifts. The right productivity tool for your business should seamlessly fit your industry and business needs. If your data isn’t good, your productivity tool isn’t going to be very effective. “Measurement is all about accuracy,” said McGeady. Ensuring accuracy often has to do with how the data is collected. “Capturing data from the source in real time so people don’t forget, misinterpret or misremember what they did and how long it took is what you should strive for,” he said. For instance, sending supervisors out with clipboards to track data later and key it into a computer system will never be as accurate or efficient as an employee’s inputting his or her own data directly. For employees who don’t sit in front of a computer all day, McGeady recommends that companies install a kiosk or mobile device close to where workers are, providing them with an easy way to input information. “The less you have to track on paper, the less you have to track by hand, the more accurate it’s going to be,” he said. Even accurate data is meaningless unless you plan to do something with it. McGeady says the most important feature of a productivity tool is that it has effective analysis functions. “You have to look for tools that are really easy to use but get granular enough to give you opportunities to improve,” he said. For example, a good analysis feature could allow you to spot a costly overtime trend and identify the root cause. “Seeing that issue will help you get ahead of the problem,” McGeady said. To provide effective analysis, a productivity tool may need to pull data from other systems, such as manufacturing output data or retail sales data systems. “Combine that with your time and labor data, and you can find some really interesting things,” McGeady said. Productivity tool analytics should also allow for benchmarking — and not just internally. If you can only compare your employees’ productivity to their former productivity, your ability to compete is restricted. “If I can compare it to other businesses like mine and find, boy, we perform relatively poorly in a given area, now you’ve got something to focus on,” McGeady said. When done poorly, tracking your employees’ every move can make them feel spied on and resentful, which can negatively affect productivity. An effective productivity tool motivates workers by tying rewards to good performance. “Productivity and output often drive pay,” McGeady said. “Employees in that environment tend to be on board more easily when they’re rewarded for good results.” Rather than just relying on a pay boost to create buy-in, productivity tools with gamification features can turn any mundane task into a friendly competition. “You can set up contests between departments for on-time punch-ins and punch-outs, and we can post the results and have a reward for the winners,” said McGeady. “Talk about transparency.” Employers can make big efficiency gains with the right productivity tool. The key is to find one that best fits your industry and individual business. adp.com/spark    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Natalie Burg

Productivity tools are everywhere these days. There are tools to measure employee output, manage projects and track online activities, to name only a few. In fact, there are so many tools to track and measure productivity, employees could spend more time fiddling with them than getting work done.

But it doesn’t have to be that way — and it shouldn’t be. The goal is to find the productivity tool that can help make your employees and business more efficient. And the more automated the tool, the better, according to James McGeady, ADP’s senior director of product marketing.

“The less manual task work people are doing, the more time they’re getting back to be productive, whether that’s serving patients, serving customers or whatever it is that their primary job focus should be,” he said.

Here are four things to look for in a productivity tool to ensure it’s the right resource for your business:

It Fits Your Industry

“There are many different ways to look at productivity, and a big factor in the way you define and measure it depends on the business that you’re in,” McGeady said.

In manufacturing, for example, businesses often track everything a worker does, including widgets produced, scrap and rework, and idle time. Engineers can use that data to find more efficient ways for people on the shop floor to work.

The retail industry is different. Managers may not care how many sweaters are folded per shift, but they will want to know the number of transactions in a day or an hour, basket size, sales per labor hour and conversion rates. Rather than engineer new systems to improve those numbers, management may track good data back to an individual salesperson and schedule that employee during key shifts.

The right productivity tool for your business should seamlessly fit your industry and business needs.

It Ensures Accuracy

If your data isn’t good, your productivity tool isn’t going to be very effective. “Measurement is all about accuracy,” said McGeady.

Ensuring accuracy often has to do with how the data is collected.

“Capturing data from the source in real time so people don’t forget, misinterpret or misremember what they did and how long it took is what you should strive for,” he said.

For instance, sending supervisors out with clipboards to track data later and key it into a computer system will never be as accurate or efficient as an employee’s inputting his or her own data directly.

For employees who don’t sit in front of a computer all day, McGeady recommends that companies install a kiosk or mobile device close to where workers are, providing them with an easy way to input information.

“The less you have to track on paper, the less you have to track by hand, the more accurate it’s going to be,” he said.

It Allows For Productive Analysis

Even accurate data is meaningless unless you plan to do something with it. McGeady says the most important feature of a productivity tool is that it has effective analysis functions.

“You have to look for tools that are really easy to use but get granular enough to give you opportunities to improve,” he said. For example, a good analysis feature could allow you to spot a costly overtime trend and identify the root cause. “Seeing that issue will help you get ahead of the problem,” McGeady said.

To provide effective analysis, a productivity tool may need to pull data from other systems, such as manufacturing output data or retail sales data systems. “Combine that with your time and labor data, and you can find some really interesting things,” McGeady said.

Productivity tool analytics should also allow for benchmarking — and not just internally. If you can only compare your employees’ productivity to their former productivity, your ability to compete is restricted.

“If I can compare it to other businesses like mine and find, boy, we perform relatively poorly in a given area, now you’ve got something to focus on,” McGeady said.

It Motivates Workers

When done poorly, tracking your employees’ every move can make them feel spied on and resentful, which can negatively affect productivity. An effective productivity tool motivates workers by tying rewards to good performance.

“Productivity and output often drive pay,” McGeady said. “Employees in that environment tend to be on board more easily when they’re rewarded for good results.”

Rather than just relying on a pay boost to create buy-in, productivity tools with gamification features can turn any mundane task into a friendly competition.

“You can set up contests between departments for on-time punch-ins and punch-outs, and we can post the results and have a reward for the winners,” said McGeady. “Talk about transparency.”

Employers can make big efficiency gains with the right productivity tool. The key is to find one that best fits your industry and individual business.

For more information and for more articles like this, visit adp.com/spark.

A former downtown development professional, Natalie Burg is a freelancer who writes about growth, entrepreneurialism and innovation.