This poster of celebrities the world has lost in 2016 is just heartbreaking
This poster of celebrities the world has lost in 2016 is just heartbreaking
He began the image the night of the US election. At that moment, the background was a wasteland, except for a "Make America Great Again" hat . In addition to celebrities, Barker included an image of Jo Cox, the MP who was murdered by far right extremist Thomas Mair. Barker told he would like fans of the Sgt Pepper cover to donate to the Jo Cox memorial fund , as the image itself is not for profit. A near complete form of the Sgt Pepper cover was posted online in November to much acclaim. Following the news of Carrie Fisher's death on Tuesday night, Barker updated it to include her hologram from the film (1977). I'm really sorry everyone. This is so sad. I feel awful. #RIPCarrieFisher  #sgtpepper2016 May the force be with 2017. pic.twitter.com/3HJM8mJPVQ  Speaking to , Barker described his sadness when the time came to add Fisher to the 2016 image. This is the biggest impact so far and in a way I'm not surprised. Carrie Fisher was the princess of the hearts of a couple of generations... Barker also included a personal item, the French Horn located to the left of the 2016 drum. The French horn is a personal tribute to my friend Jim who died this year who was a great French horn player and sadly missed by all his friends and family. Writing on his blog Barker wrote about his inspiration for the image. It wasn’t going to be a montage of dead celebrities in the style of Sgt Peppers at first. In fact the Sgt Pepper element came quite late... Initially I was going to have Bowie in the centre and everything else orbiting around him but then I found the full length shot of Bowie that you see on the final piece and it looked so Sgt Pepper I thought I might as well go with that idea. He also made reference to one of his exemptions from the image that includes so many stars. But I ignored the millennials talking about Harambe the gorilla. That’s their thing and I’m not qualified to talk about it. Barker has also posted this guide to all the persons and items (spot the proper-sized Toblerone: bottom left) included in the cover. Here are the answers #sgtpepper2016  #curseof2016  #noharambe (thanks to @barbarossa69 ) pic.twitter.com/tUwr69YTpG                    Keep scrolling for next article

British artist Chris Barker has paid homage to the dead of 2016, using the iconic cover art for Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.

He began the image the night of the US election.

At that moment, the background was a wasteland, except for a "Make America Great Again" hat.

In addition to celebrities, Barker included an image of Jo Cox, the MP who was murdered by far right extremist Thomas Mair.

Barker told indy100 he would like fans of the Sgt Pepper cover to donate to the Jo Cox memorial fund, as the image itself is not for profit.

A near complete form of the Sgt Pepper cover was posted online in November to much acclaim.

Following the news of Carrie Fisher's death on Tuesday night, Barker updated it to include her hologram from the film Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977).

I'm really sorry everyone. This is so sad. I feel awful. #RIPCarrieFisher #sgtpepper2016 May the force be with 2017. pic.twitter.com/3HJM8mJPVQ — christhebarker (@christhebarker) December 27, 2016

Speaking to indy100, Barker described his sadness when the time came to add Fisher to the 2016 image.

This is the biggest impact so far and in a way I'm not surprised. Carrie Fisher was the princess of the hearts of a couple of generations...

Barker also included a personal item, the French Horn located to the left of the 2016 drum.

The French horn is a personal tribute to my friend Jim who died this year who was a great French horn player and sadly missed by all his friends and family.

Writing on his blog christhebarker.tumblr.com Barker wrote about his inspiration for the image.

It wasn’t going to be a montage of dead celebrities in the style of Sgt Peppers at first. In fact the Sgt Pepper element came quite late... Initially I was going to have Bowie in the centre and everything else orbiting around him but then I found the full length shot of Bowie that you see on the final piece and it looked so Sgt Pepper I thought I might as well go with that idea.

He also made reference to one of his exemptions from the image that includes so many stars.

But I ignored the millennials talking about Harambe the gorilla. That’s their thing and I’m not qualified to talk about it.

Barker has also posted this guide to all the persons and items (spot the proper-sized Toblerone: bottom left) included in the cover.

More: Read Carrie Fisher's amazing obituary to herself

More: The difference between George Michael and Donald Trump - in two tweets​