If you have any of these symptoms you may have an anxiety disorder
If you have any of these symptoms you may have an anxiety disorder
1. Excessive worry Worrying is something we all do now and again, but if your worrying is repetitive, it focuses on hypothetical problems, or it starts to disrupt your life, it could be a sign of something more serious.  2. Irrational fears Another sign of anxiety is specific, irrational fear. This could be a fear of an object, activity or situation, for example. But this symptom might be harder to spot, because people with phobias tend to form avoidance behaviour. This means you, possibly subconsciously, avoid the phobia, therefore reducing the fear and not realising the severity of the problem.  3. Muscle tension Sufferers of anxiety are more likely to experience high-arousal states, when the sympathetic nervous system is activated. This puts the body in fight or flight mode, and subconsciously tenses muscles so they're prepared to see off the perceived threat.  4. Indigestion The mind and the digestive system are closely linked, and research has found that stress and anxiety can cause digestive problems, such as symptoms associated with irritable bowel syndrome.  5. Sleeping problems There is a close relationship between sleep and anxiety. If you notice your sleeping patterns change, you find it more difficult to sleep or become more tired, this could be a sign of anxiety. And this can become a vicious cycle; a lack of sleep can contribute to stress and anxiety levels. The mental health charity Mind has some good advice for getting a better night's sleep.  6. Getting ill more often Prolonged anxiety can weaken your immune system, and result in you suffering from more viruses.  7. Finding everyday activities difficult Anxiety becomes a disorder when it interferes with your everyday life. It can make it difficult to maintain relationships, to concentrate on something for a prolonged period of time, to hold down a job, and to relax.  If you or someone you know is suffering from anxiety, visit Anxiety UK for advice and support.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Anxiety is part of our lives, but it can sometimes be difficult to notice when it becomes a problem. Here are seven signs your anxiety might have progressed into a disorder, and it's time to see your doctor:

1. Excessive worry

Worrying is something we all do now and again, but if your worrying is repetitive, it focuses on hypothetical problems, or it starts to disrupt your life, it could be a sign of something more serious.

2. Irrational fears

Another sign of anxiety is specific, irrational fear. This could be a fear of an object, activity or situation, for example. But this symptom might be harder to spot, because people with phobias tend to form avoidance behaviour. This means you, possibly subconsciously, avoid the phobia, therefore reducing the fear and not realising the severity of the problem.

3. Muscle tension

Sufferers of anxiety are more likely to experience high-arousal states, when the sympathetic nervous system is activated. This puts the body in fight or flight mode, and subconsciously tenses muscles so they're prepared to see off the perceived threat.

4. Indigestion

The mind and the digestive system are closely linked, and research has found that stress and anxiety can cause digestive problems, such as symptoms associated with irritable bowel syndrome.

5. Sleeping problems

There is a close relationship between sleep and anxiety. If you notice your sleeping patterns change, you find it more difficult to sleep or become more tired, this could be a sign of anxiety. And this can become a vicious cycle; a lack of sleep can contribute to stress and anxiety levels. The mental health charity Mind has some good advice for getting a better night's sleep.

6. Getting ill more often

Prolonged anxiety can weaken your immune system, and result in you suffering from more viruses.

7. Finding everyday activities difficult

Anxiety becomes a disorder when it interferes with your everyday life. It can make it difficult to maintain relationships, to concentrate on something for a prolonged period of time, to hold down a job, and to relax.

If you or someone you know is suffering from anxiety, visit Anxiety UK for advice and support.

More: 8 tips for managing anxiety that actually work

More: One simple technique for dealing with anxiety

More: This satisfying gif is helping people deal with anxiety