Trump Takes Credit for Bump in Consumer Confidence
Trump Takes Credit for Bump in Consumer Confidence 
Shares               President-elect Donald Trump congratulated himself on Tuesday night for an uptick in the consumer confidence index, a closely watched economic measure. The Conference Board reported on Tuesday that its index of consumer confidence rose to 113.7 in December — its highest level since December 2003. Lynn Franco, the director of economic indicators at the Conference Board, credited the positive outlook to a "post-election surge in optimism for the economy, jobs and income prospects." Trump was quick to point out the good news and credit himself, tweeting, "The U.S. Consumer Confidence Index for December surged nearly four points to 113.7, THE HIGHEST LEVEL IN MORE THAN 15 YEARS! Thanks Donald!"  The U.S. Consumer Confidence Index for December surged nearly four points to 113.7, THE HIGHEST LEVEL IN MORE THAN 15 YEARS! Thanks Donald!  Consumer confidence is considered an important barometer of U.S. economic health because consumer spending accounts for about 68 percent of the country's economic activity, according to figures from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Shares                  Trump Takes Credit for Bump in Consumer Confidence   President Trump to Attend National Prayer Breakfast   DHS Inspector General Launches Probe Into Immigration Ban   First Lady Hires Chief of Staff, Plans Move to DC   Trump Executive Order Draft Could Curtail LGBT Rights   As Gorsuch Comes to the Hill, Democrats Divided on a Plan   The Nuclear Option Republicans Can Use to Confirm Supreme Court Nominee Gorsuch   Rex Tillerson: What to Know About the New Secretary of State   Iran 'on Notice' Says White House National Security Adviser   Trump Attends Dignified Transfer of Navy SEAL Killed in Yemen Raid   Officials Aim to Clarify Impact on Dual Nationals From Trump's Immigration Executive Order   How a Supreme Court Nominee Gets Confirmed   DeVos Dealt Confirmation Blow by Key GOP Senators   Quebec Shooting Suspect Visited Mosque Days Before Attack

President-elect Donald Trump congratulated himself on Tuesday night for an uptick in the consumer confidence index, a closely watched economic measure.

The Conference Board reported on Tuesday that its index of consumer confidence rose to 113.7 in December — its highest level since December 2003.

Lynn Franco, the director of economic indicators at the Conference Board, credited the positive outlook to a "post-election surge in optimism for the economy, jobs and income prospects."

Trump was quick to point out the good news and credit himself, tweeting, "The U.S. Consumer Confidence Index for December surged nearly four points to 113.7, THE HIGHEST LEVEL IN MORE THAN 15 YEARS! Thanks Donald!"

The U.S. Consumer Confidence Index for December surged nearly four points to 113.7, THE HIGHEST LEVEL IN MORE THAN 15 YEARS! Thanks Donald! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 28, 2016

Consumer confidence is considered an important barometer of U.S. economic health because consumer spending accounts for about 68 percent of the country's economic activity, according to figures from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.