Quora users share the perfect way to cook rice
The perfect way to cook rice REVEALED


Boiling rice may seem simple, but there is a very fine line between under-cooked crunchy grains and mushy over-cooked stodge.

But now the perfect way to cook the rice has been shared on question-and-answer website Quora - and all it requires is one piece of equipment.

Users were responding to the question 'How does one cook rice properly?' - proving that the basics are not always as simple to cook as we may think.

Scroll down for video

People have been sharing their expertise on the perfect way to cook rice - and most people agreed that the simplest way is to use a rice cooker

The top voted answer for how to cook perfectly, which has been used more than 4,000 times, was refreshingly simple - but it does require some investment.

Several commenters agreed that the best way to cook rice is in a rice cooker, which you can pick up from most high street stores for between £15 and £20.

Cliff Chang wrote: ' Seriously, it's so much easier than any other method I've tried.

'Take your rice, wash it a bit - not too much - add enough water so that the waterline is twice as high as the rice-line. That is, slightly more water than rice in the pot as the water fills in the nooks between the grains of rice.

'Turn it on. Wait. Delicious rice! You can tweak a little bit if you like your rice fluffier or firmer.'

The most voted answer on question-and-answer website Quora when one users asked for the best way to cook rice revealed that a rice cookrer (pictured) will deliver you the best results

Several commenters agreed that the best way to cook rice is in a rice cooker, which you can pick up from most high street stores for between £15 and £20

Susan Shao also had some top tips for using a rice cooker - but many can apply to boiling rice using a pan as well.

'When using a rice cooker, I follow these steps and the rice always comes out perfectly.

'If you're not making sushi, wash the rice by rinsing it in cold water with your hand, making swirl motions three times. If you're making sushi rice, repeat this process 10 times instead of three.

'When you add rice, the general rule of thumb is half a cup of rice per person.' She also advises adding just enough water to cover the rice.

Jireh Tan offers an alternative method for those who don't have a rice cooker, or don't want to invest in the equipment - which he said has 'never' failed him

But Jireh Tan offers an alternative for those who don't have a rice cooker, or don't want to invest in the equipment.

Saying this technique has 'never' failed him, he advises washing the rice first, before measuring rice and water into a pot at a ratio of one cup of rice to 1.5 cups of water.

He adds: 'With pot uncovered, bring water to the boil, and boil for an additional two minutes.

'Place the lid on the pot, reduce heat to lowest possible. Simmer for another eight minutes.

'Take the pot off the heat. With the lid on, let the rice rest for another 15 minutes.

'Remove the lid and fluff the rice, allowing any excess moisture to evaporate.'

He adds that the lid should not be removed when taken off the heat, as otherwise the bottom of the pan may end up black and burnt with rice sticking to it.