President Obama edges out president-elect Trump in "most admired man" poll
President Obama edges out president-elect Trump in "most admired man" poll
U.S. President Barack Obama meets with President-elect Donald Trump (L) to discuss transition plans in the White House Oval Office in Washington, U.S., November 10, 2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  President Obama is the most admired man in America, according to a Gallup poll released Wednesday. President-elect Donald Trump came in second in the poll, which Gallup has conducted every year since 1946. Fifteen percent of respondents selected him as the most admired man, versus 22 percent for Mr. Obama. The poll was released as Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump engage in a spirited war-of-words. Mr. Obama recently said that he would have beaten Mr. Trump had he been allowed to run a third time, an argument Mr. Trump disputes . The sitting president typically wins the poll each year. The only presidents-elect to win the poll were Dwight Eisenhower in 1952 and Mr. Obama in 2008. Trump fires back at Obama's claim he could have won third term President Obama says he would have been able to beat Donald Trump with a message of diversity and tolerance in the 2016 elections, if he'd been a... Eisenhower was selected as the most admired man a record twelve times. Mr. Obama is in second place in terms of finishes, having garnered the accolade nine times. Pope Francis came in third, with four percent of Americans saying he was the man they most admired. He was followed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, Rev. Billy Graham, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the Dalai Lama , former President Bill Clinton, Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates, and vice president-elect Mike Pence. Meanwhile, former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton was chosen as the most admired woman, with 12 percent of respondents selecting her. She was followed by first lady Michelle Obama, who had 8 percent support. This is the record 21st time overall, and 15th consecutive year, where Clinton has been named the most admired woman. Rounding out the list for the most admired woman were German Chancellor Angela Merkel, talk show host Oprah Winfrey, talk show host Ellen DeGeneres, Queen Elizabeth, activist Malala Yousafzai, former secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, and former Gov. Sarah Palin. The poll was conducted December 7th to the 11th among 1,028 American adults.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

President Obama is the most admired man in America, according to a Gallup poll released Wednesday.

President-elect Donald Trump came in second in the poll, which Gallup has conducted every year since 1946. Fifteen percent of respondents selected him as the most admired man, versus 22 percent for Mr. Obama.

The poll was released as Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump engage in a spirited war-of-words. Mr. Obama recently said that he would have beaten Mr. Trump had he been allowed to run a third time, an argument Mr. Trump disputes.

The sitting president typically wins the poll each year. The only presidents-elect to win the poll were Dwight Eisenhower in 1952 and Mr. Obama in 2008.

Eisenhower was selected as the most admired man a record twelve times. Mr. Obama is in second place in terms of finishes, having garnered the accolade nine times.

Pope Francis came in third, with four percent of Americans saying he was the man they most admired. He was followed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, Rev. Billy Graham, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the Dalai Lama, former President Bill Clinton, Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates, and vice president-elect Mike Pence.

Meanwhile, former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton was chosen as the most admired woman, with 12 percent of respondents selecting her. She was followed by first lady Michelle Obama, who had 8 percent support.

This is the record 21st time overall, and 15th consecutive year, where Clinton has been named the most admired woman.

Rounding out the list for the most admired woman were German Chancellor Angela Merkel, talk show host Oprah Winfrey, talk show host Ellen DeGeneres, Queen Elizabeth, activist Malala Yousafzai, former secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, and former Gov. Sarah Palin.

The poll was conducted December 7th to the 11th among 1,028 American adults.