Carl Paladino, a Trump Ally, Says Racist Remarks About Obamas Were Sent in Error
Carl Paladino, a Trump Ally, Says Racist Remarks About Obamas Were Sent in Error
Carl Paladino said on Tuesday that he had not intended to send racist remarks about President and Michelle Obama , which were roundly denounced as viciously offensive, to a Buffalo newspaper for publication. Mr. Paladino, a former candidate for governor of New York and a political ally of President-elect Donald J. Trump, said in a statement that he had meant to email his remarks to friends. Instead, he said, he inadvertently sent them to Artvoice , a Buffalo weekly, which published them last week. In the statement, Mr. Paladino, a western New York builder and a member of the Buffalo Board of Education, said that he would not heed calls for his resignation, “not when it’s time to help implement the real choice elements of Trump’s plan for education reform.” Mr. Paladino’s remarks last week were in response to a light survey about 2017 circulated by Artvoice to figures in the Buffalo community. Advertisement Asked what he wanted to see “go away in 2017,” Mr. Paladino answered, Michelle Obama, “I’d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla.” He also wrote that he hoped President Obama would die of mad cow disease . His comments were published with those of three dozen other survey respondents. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy In his statement on Tuesday, Mr. Paladino apologized to the “minority community,” and said he received the survey at an emotional moment, after listening to Mr. Obama speak about the humanitarian disaster in Aleppo, Syria, which “resulted from his failed and cowardly foreign policy.” Mr. Paladino added: “I did not mean to send those answers to Artvoice. Not that it makes any difference because what I wrote was inappropriate under any circumstance. I filled out the survey to send to a couple friends and forwarded it to them not realizing that I didn’t hit ‘forward’ I hit ‘reply.' All men make mistakes.” In the days since his original comments were published, Mr. Paladino’s words have been condemned by a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, and by public figures around the state, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, and the state’s highest ranking education official, Betty A. Rosa, the chancellor of the Board of Regents. Local politicians, including the Erie County executive , have called for Mr. Paladino’s resignation, and The Buffalo News reported that the Buffalo school board planned a special meeting for Thursday to address “board member conduct.” After his statement was published by WBEN , a Buffalo radio station, on its website, The New York Times contacted Mr. Paladino, who said he would send a reporter the statement. Instead, he forwarded what appeared to be part of a different statement. It picked up in the middle of a thought, and took to task the “pathetic heathens” it said had criticized him, including Mr. Cuomo and the president of the Buffalo school board, Barbara Seals Nevergold. Mr. Paladino said that statement was a draft written by his brother-in-law, which he did not intend to send. A version of this article appears in print on December 28, 2016, on Page A20 of the with the headline: Slurs About Obamas Sent by Mistake, Paladino Says.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

Carl Paladino said on Tuesday that he had not intended to send racist remarks about President and Michelle Obama, which were roundly denounced as viciously offensive, to a Buffalo newspaper for publication.

Mr. Paladino, a former candidate for governor of New York and a political ally of President-elect Donald J. Trump, said in a statement that he had meant to email his remarks to friends.

Instead, he said, he inadvertently sent them to Artvoice, a Buffalo weekly, which published them last week.

In the statement, Mr. Paladino, a western New York builder and a member of the Buffalo Board of Education, said that he would not heed calls for his resignation, “not when it’s time to help implement the real choice elements of Trump’s plan for education reform.”

Mr. Paladino’s remarks last week were in response to a light survey about 2017 circulated by Artvoice to figures in the Buffalo community.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked what he wanted to see “go away in 2017,” Mr. Paladino answered, Michelle Obama, “I’d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla.”

He also wrote that he hoped President Obama would die of mad cow disease. His comments were published with those of three dozen other survey respondents.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In his statement on Tuesday, Mr. Paladino apologized to the “minority community,” and said he received the survey at an emotional moment, after listening to Mr. Obama speak about the humanitarian disaster in Aleppo, Syria, which “resulted from his failed and cowardly foreign policy.”

Mr. Paladino added: “I did not mean to send those answers to Artvoice. Not that it makes any difference because what I wrote was inappropriate under any circumstance. I filled out the survey to send to a couple friends and forwarded it to them not realizing that I didn’t hit ‘forward’ I hit ‘reply.' All men make mistakes.”

In the days since his original comments were published, Mr. Paladino’s words have been condemned by a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, and by public figures around the state, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, and the state’s highest ranking education official, Betty A. Rosa, the chancellor of the Board of Regents. Local politicians, including the Erie County executive, have called for Mr. Paladino’s resignation, and The Buffalo News reported that the Buffalo school board planned a special meeting for Thursday to address “board member conduct.”

After his statement was published by WBEN, a Buffalo radio station, on its website, The New York Times contacted Mr. Paladino, who said he would send a reporter the statement. Instead, he forwarded what appeared to be part of a different statement. It picked up in the middle of a thought, and took to task the “pathetic heathens” it said had criticized him, including Mr. Cuomo and the president of the Buffalo school board, Barbara Seals Nevergold.

Mr. Paladino said that statement was a draft written by his brother-in-law, which he did not intend to send.