How Many Hours Should A Salaried Employee Work?
How Many Hours Should A Salaried Employee Work?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Liz Ryan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Dear Liz, I'm an HR Manager in a new job and I am running into a sticky issue. In my new company different departments arrive and leave the office at different times. The official business hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. but some people come in at 10 or 11 a.m. (or 6 or 7). I think the flexibility is fantastic. I work from about 8:30 a.m. to about 6 p.m. most days but once I go home after the workday, I don't check email at night. I only respond to emergency texts and phone calls and so far I haven't had any of those. A few of our managers have complained to me about the wide variations in working hours. So far I have told them "Our employees are salaried. They work when they need to work. You and they can make a set schedule, or take it week by week." Some of our managers love the freedom to customize their teammates' working hours and some of them are aghast. They feel that everybody should work the same hours or at least that everybody should work at least nine hours a day. Evidently a rift between the old-school, "tough" managers and the free-wheeling "soft" managers has been building for some time. I was brought in to the company to shift the culture away from the old-school thinking but it can be hard. There is still an expectation among a number of our managers that a salaried person's workday is well over eight hours. Our "tough" managers'  employees are the last to go home. This cultural variation across the department hasn't led anyone to quit since I got here but I have had complaints from several employees. I tell our managers that if they overwork their employees, the employees will leave. However, my "tough" managers want me to force the "soft" managers to require more hours from their salaried employees! Obviously I'm not going to do that. I have two questions for you. The first question is "What is a reasonable number of hours for a salaried employee to work every week?" and the second question is "How should I as the HR leader in the company deal with complaints and unhappiness associated with our salaried employees' working hours?" Thanks Liz! You are my HR guru. Yours, Cliff    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Dear Liz,

I'm an HR Manager in a new job and I am running into a sticky issue.

In my new company different departments arrive and leave the office at different times. The official business hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. but some people come in at 10 or 11 a.m. (or 6 or 7).

I think the flexibility is fantastic. I work from about 8:30 a.m. to about 6 p.m. most days but once I go home after the workday, I don't check email at night. I only respond to emergency texts and phone calls and so far I haven't had any of those.

Watch on Forbes:

A few of our managers have complained to me about the wide variations in working hours.

So far I have told them "Our employees are salaried. They work when they need to work. You and they can make a set schedule, or take it week by week."

Some of our managers love the freedom to customize their teammates' working hours and some of them are aghast. They feel that everybody should work the same hours or at least that everybody should work at least nine hours a day.

Evidently a rift between the old-school, "tough" managers and the free-wheeling "soft" managers has been building for some time.

I was brought in to the company to shift the culture away from the old-school thinking but it can be hard.

There is still an expectation among a number of our managers that a salaried person's workday is well over eight hours. Our "tough" managers' employees are the last to go home.

This cultural variation across the department hasn't led anyone to quit since I got here but I have had complaints from several employees.

I tell our managers that if they overwork their employees, the employees will leave.

However, my "tough" managers want me to force the "soft" managers to require more hours from their salaried employees! Obviously I'm not going to do that.

I have two questions for you. The first question is "What is a reasonable number of hours for a salaried employee to work every week?" and the second question is "How should I as the HR leader in the company deal with complaints and unhappiness associated with our salaried employees' working hours?"

Thanks Liz! You are my HR guru.

Yours,

Cliff