Tunisian man is arrested over links to Berlin Christmas market massacre after his number is found stored on lorry attacker's telephone
German authorities detain Tunisian for possible link to Berlin attack


A Tunisian man has been arrested over suspicions he was accomplice to the man who carried out the Berlin Christmas market massacre.

The 40-year-old was detained by German police after they had raided his home and business in Berlin amid claims he was involved in the atrocity which left 12 dead.

ISIS attacker Anis Amri, a rejected asylum seeker who was also from Tunisia, drove a truck at 40mph through a crowd of revellers last week before going on the run.

A Tunisian man has been arrested over links to the Berlin Christmas market massacre (pictured) after his number was found stored on the lorry attacker's telephone

ISIS attacker Anis Amri (pictured), a rejected asylum seeker who was also from Tunisia, drove a truck at 40mph through a crowd of revellers last week before going on the run

He was later shot dead by Italian police after arriving in Milan, in the north of the country.

German police say they swooped on a new suspect after finding his mobile phone number stored on Amri's own telephone.

A prosecutor said: 'Further investigations indicated that he could have been involved in the attack.

'To what extent suspicions against the arrested person will be hardened up remains to be seen after further investigation.'

The arrest came as news emerged of Italian police discovering mobile telephone SIM cards in his rucksack which had been bought in department stores in the Netherlands after the attack December 19.

According to French online portal La Repubblica, the cards came from outlets in Zwolle, Breda and Nijmegen between December 20 and 22.

The arrest in Berlin by elite SEK police was hailed as a major breakthrough in law enforcement efforts to roll up the network which supported Amri on his lethal mission.

Bild newspaper said he was a 'contact person' for Amri and the federal attorney general's office stated he was seized 'because he may have been involved in the attack.'

Prosecutors have until Thursday evening to determine whether the case against the 40-year-old is strong enough for them to seek a formal arrest warrant. That would allow them to keep him in custody pending possible charges.

It comes after it emerged that Amri travelled by bus from the Netherlands to France before heading to Italy where police shot him dead, sources close to the investigation said Wednesday.

Two days after the December 19 attack on a Christmas market in Berlin left 12 dead, the 24-year-old Tunisian boarded an overnight bus at the Dutch city of Nijmegen, near the German border, that took him to Lyon in central France, one of the sources said, confirming a French media report.

Investigators are still trying to determine how Amri was able to leave Berlin and traverse most of Germany to reach the Netherlands. He is pictured here arriving at Milan's Central Station

The Berlin rampage was claimed by ISIS, which released a video on Friday in which Amri is shown pledging allegiance to IS chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi

Amri got off the bus at the Lyon-Part-Dieu rail station, the source said.

Surveillance cameras filmed Amri at the station last Thursday.

From there, he took a train to the French Alpine town of Chambery before heading to Milan, in northern Italy.

Italian police shot Amri dead in the early hours of Friday after he fired at officers who had stopped him for a routine identity check.

A train ticket from Lyon to Milan via Turin was found on his body.

Investigators are still trying to determine how Amri was able to leave Berlin and traverse most of Germany to reach the Netherlands.

The Berlin rampage was claimed by ISIS, which released a video on Friday in which Amri is shown pledging allegiance to IS chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

German authorities are probing whether Amri had help before or after the attack.

In Tunisia, authorities later arrested Amri's nephew and two other suspects, aged between 18 and 27, who they said were members of a 'terrorist cell' connected to Amri.