German authorities detain man over possible links to Berlin Christmas market truck attack



German authorities detain man over possible links to Berlin Christmas market truck attack

Updated

German authorities have detained a Tunisian man who prosecutors believe may have been involved in last week's attack on a Berlin Christmas market in which 12 people died.

Key points: 40-year-old Tunisian man detained after officials raided his home and business premises

Man's phone number found in Anis Amri's mobile, prosecutors say

Authorities are yet to decide whether to charge the detained man

Suspected attacker Anis Amri, a rejected asylum seeker from Tunisia, had the man's phone number stored in his mobile phone.

Prosecutors have not named the detained Tunisian, aged 40. Officials raided his home and business premises, they said.

"Further investigations indicated that he could have been involved in the attack," said prosecutors, adding that he was arrested.

"To what extent suspicions against the arrested person will be hardened up remains to be seen after further investigation."

Twelve people were killed and nearly 50 others injured when the truck drove into the popular market filled with tourists and locals outside the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church near Berlin's Zoo station.

Police detained an asylum seeker shortly afterwards, but he denied involvement and was later released.

Italian police shot dead Amri after he pulled a gun on them during a routine check in the early hours of last Friday.

German media said investigators believed an emergency braking system in the truck might have prevented more deaths.

Daily Sueddeutsche Zeitung and public broadcaster NDR cited unnamed officials familiar with the investigation as saying the tractor unit had a mechanism that automatically slammed on the brakes when a collision was detected.

Piecing together Amri's escape

Investigators are trying to determine whether Amri, 24, had a support network in planning and carrying out the attack, and in fleeing Berlin.

They are also trying to piece together the route he took from Berlin to Milan.

Italian police have said Amri travelled through France, and French authorities said on Tuesday he made a stop in the eastern French city of Lyon.

On Wednesday, Dutch authorities said it appeared Amri first had fled through the Netherlands, Germany's western neighbour.

Jirko Patist, a spokesman for the Dutch national prosecutor's office, said it was "highly likely" Amri had been in Nijmegen, in the eastern Netherlands, during his journey from Berlin to Milan.

Camera images recovered in Nijmagen "found someone we think, rather of whom we say it is highly likely" is the same person appearing in photos from Lyon in France, Mr Patist told Netherlands public broadcaster NOS.

Patist added there was no reason to think the suspect was accompanied by anyone while in the Netherlands.

A SIM card found on the fugitive after he was shot led authorities to the Netherlands.

"We can see that the SIM cards like this have been distributed in several locations in the Netherlands," he said.

Amri had no phone with him in Milan, only the loose SIM card.

According to Italian police, Amri also had a pocket knife and a few hundred euros in cash in a backpack that he was carrying when officers on a routine patrol stopped him to ask for identification in the Milan suburb of Sesto San Giovanni on Friday.

He also carried a .22 pistol that he then used to shoot a police officer, hitting him in the shoulder.

The Italian investigator said the weapon appeared to be the same one used in Germany to kill the Polish driver of the truck that was commandeered for the Christmas market attack, but that final ballistic tests were still being carried out.

The body of the Polish driver, Lukasz Urban, was returned to Poland on Tuesday, said Aldoma Lema, a spokeswoman for prosecutors in the Polish city of Szczecin.

There has been speculation over whether Mr Urban still was alive at the time of the attack and struggled with Amri.

His body was found in the truck's cab.

Reuters/AP

Topics: terrorism, law-crime-and-justice, germany, tunisia

First posted