12 Oven-Baked Foil Packet Dinners To Try
12 Oven-Baked Foil Packet Dinners To Try
Caprese-Stuffed Chicken Foil Packs thewholesomedish.com The chicken is pounded thin and filled with mozzarella + tomato + basil + balsamic. Recipe here. Foil-Wrapped Garlic & Herb Salmon gimmesomeoven.com This one does require some stovetop prep first — you’ll quickly sauté the garlic in butter and white wine — but the extra step is worth it. Recipe here. Barbecue Chicken Foil Packs Cubing the chicken first ensures that everything will cook quickly and evenly, and using your favorite store-bought barbecue sauce means that prep is a breeze. Recipe here. Indian-Spiced Baked Potato & Egg Foil Packs cottercrunch.com Step one: Roast up some spiced potatoes. Step two: Crack an egg over ‘em. Step three: Devour. Recipe here . Italian Chicken & Veggie Foil Packs diethood.com Using store-bought Italian dressing makes this super easy to assemble — but you could also DIY your own Italian seasoning using spices you likely already have in your kitchen. Recipe here. Turkey Sausage & Vegetable Grill Packs This version fires things up on the grill to get those char marks — but this can be made in an oven, too. Recipe here. Slow Cooker Meatloaf & Foil-Wrapped Potatoes themagicalslowcooker.com Moment of silence for all that the slow cooker has given us.  Recipe here. Chicken Fajita Foil Packs thekitchn.com These are freezer-friendly, so feel free to double (or triple!) the recipe and stockpile some for later. Recipe here. Oven-Baked Chili Cheese Fries Purists may say that these only count as dinner when they’re made over a campfire, not in an oven. To them I say: MORE FOR ME THEN. Recipe here. Foil-Wrapped Lemon Chicken & Potatoes Because sometimes, all you really need in this life are meat and potatoes. (And maaaybe some lemon and herbs to make things ~pretty~.) Recipe here. Philly Cheesesteak Tinfoil Dinners highheelsandgrills.com Serve this piled high into a hoagie. Recipe here. Salmon & Potato Foil Packs Super simple: Just salmon + potato + citrus + herbs to garnish. Recipe here.   Cheesy Cornbread-Topped Chili    7 Easy Ways To Eat Healthier This Week  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.