Doug Marrone Reportedly to Return as Jaguars Head Coach
Doug Marrone Reportedly to Return as Jaguars Head Coach
The Jacksonville Jaguars  announced the firing of head coach Gus Bradley on Dec. 18, and despite having a number of available options, they reportedly will settle on interim head coach Doug Marrone to lead the franchise going forward. Adam Schefter of ESPN reported that Jacksonville is "planning to hire" Marrone, citing league sources. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported that the Jaguars are finalizing the move and Marrone has been offered the job and will take it. The Jaguars reportedly "liked the direction" Marrone took the offense in during his interim run, along with his belief in quarterback Blake Bortles, per Rapoport . Charles Robinson of Yahoo Sports reported Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive coordinator Mike Smith was a "close second" for the Jags. On Jan. 6, Rapoport Marrone Marrone Buffalo Bills Ryan O'Halloran The first duty for Marrone will be to maximize the young talent on the offensive side of the ball. Following an encouraging second season, Bortles' progress stalled in 2016. As a result of Bortles' struggles, wide receivers Allen Robinson and Allen Hurns failed to reach the heights they did in 2015 when both cracked 1,000 yards receiving. Having worked as the Seattle Seahawks ' defensive coordinator for four years, Bradley seemed ill-equipped to turn Bortles into a true franchise quarterback. Ryan Tannehill's improvement under Adam Gase is a testament to how the right personnel can do wonders for a young quarterback. Unless they plan on moving on from Bortles, the Jaguars should consider his development first and foremost during the offseason. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Rob Foldy/Getty Images

The Jacksonville Jaguars announced the firing of head coach Gus Bradley on Dec. 18, and despite having a number of available options, they reportedly will settle on interim head coach Doug Marrone to lead the franchise going forward.

Adam Schefter of ESPN reported that Jacksonville is "planning to hire" Marrone, citing league sources. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported that the Jaguars are finalizing the move and Marrone has been offered the job and will take it.

The Jaguars reportedly "liked the direction" Marrone took the offense in during his interim run, along with his belief in quarterback Blake Bortles, per Rapoport.

Charles Robinson of Yahoo Sports reported Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive coordinator Mike Smith was a "close second" for the Jags.

On Jan. 6, Rapoport reported that Marrone met with the team on Jan. 5, noting that the meeting sounded "like it went well."

Marrone coached the Buffalo Bills for two seasons, and Jaguars general manager David Caldwell said on Dec. 19 that he'd be among the candidates to succeed Bradley, according to the Florida Times-Union's Ryan O'Halloran.

The first duty for Marrone will be to maximize the young talent on the offensive side of the ball.

Following an encouraging second season, Bortles' progress stalled in 2016.

As a result of Bortles' struggles, wide receivers Allen Robinson and Allen Hurns failed to reach the heights they did in 2015 when both cracked 1,000 yards receiving.

Having worked as the Seattle Seahawks' defensive coordinator for four years, Bradley seemed ill-equipped to turn Bortles into a true franchise quarterback.

Ryan Tannehill's improvement under Miami Dolphins head coach Adam Gase is a testament to how the right personnel can do wonders for a young quarterback.

Unless they plan on moving on from Bortles, the Jaguars should consider his development first and foremost during the offseason.