Far-right French mayor Julien Sanchez names road in his town Brexit Street
Far-right French mayor names road in his town Brexit Street


A far-right French mayor has named a road in his town Brexit Street to 'pay tribute to the sovereign British people' who voted to leave the EU, it has emerged.

Julien Sanchez, the Front National mayor of Beaucaire in the southern Gard département, insists he has received 'lots of support from Britons' after christening the street.

But the idea has already come in for criticism, with some pointing out that the cul-de-sac - in a gritty industrial estate - 'goes nowhere'.

The far-right mayor of Beaucaire in France has named a road in his town Brexit Street (show in the map) to 'pay tribute to the sovereign British people' who voted to leave the EU, it has emerged

Sanchez, 33, said the street is not currently named and that its new status would help delivery drivers and emergency services

In a symbolic move, rue du Brexit will be situated between streets named after Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman, two of the EU's founding fathers after the Second World War.

Sanchez, 33, said the street is not currently named and that its new status would help delivery drivers and emergency services.

The official Twitter account for Britain's Leave campaign wrote: 'A Mayor in France has named their new road "Rue du Brexit" to pay tribute to our vote for independence! A fine choice!'

But others were less enthusiastic with some in France mocking the fact that it is a 'circular road that leads nowhere - a great prospect for progress'.

Julien Sanchez, the Front National mayor of Beaucaire in the southern Gard département, insists he has received 'lots of support from Britons' after christening the street

Another added: 'There's only one way to protect our dead ends… by ousting these clowns with our votes.'

Critics have two months to challenge the proposal, but Mr Saanchez reportedly wants the change rubber stamped in a month's time.

The anti-EU Front National leader Marine Le Pen has vowed to hold a Brexit-style referendum in France over European Union membership if she seizes power next year.

She described Britain's vote as a 'victory for freedom'.