3 Teens Rescued From Capsized Boat off Florida Keys
3 Teens Rescued From Capsized Boat off Florida Keys
Shares               Three teens were rescued off the coast of the Florida Keys Tuesday after their boat capsized, according to authorities. The teens -- identified by officials as brothers Jacob Sowder, 16, and Zachary Sowder, 18, and Brent Shishido, 18, all of Orange County, Calif. -- were found sitting on top of a 22-foot rental boat about two miles off the shore of Little Torch Key, according to the Monroe County Sheriff's Office. The boat was anchored in about 30 feet of water when it started to take on water. By the time the teens were able to cut the anchor line, the boat had taken on too much water and capsized, police said.   The teens managed to climb on top of the hull, according to police. One of the teens was able to call 911 from his cellphone and relay their approximate location to rescuers.       In the 911 call, obtained by ABC News, one of the teens tells the dispatcher that they "are in the middle of the ocean" and had "flipped" the boat. He says there are other boats nearby but they can't see them, and that the life jackets are underneath the boat. The other teens can be heard yelling "help!" in the background. When the dispatcher asked if the boat was sinking, the teen replied, "We are on top -- but I don't know for how long."   Monroe County Marine Deputy and Fish and Wildlife Investigator David Bingham responded to the teens' location around 3:15, police said. After searching for them, the found the teens sitting on top of the boat. They then loaded them onto the patrol boat and brought them to shore. Shares                  3 Teens Rescued From Capsized Boat off Florida Keys   Hearing Underway on Challenge to Trump's Controversial Immigration Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC, With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   1 Suspect Dead, 1 Captured After Weeklong Manhunt in Southeast   Romania Protests Endure as President Says Country in Crisis   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   Israeli Allies Condemn Settlement Law as Lawsuits Loom   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Tom Brady Says Wife Gisele Bundchen Wants Him to Retire   Texas Rangers to Help Search for Tom Brady's Stolen Super Bowl Jersey, Lt. Gov. Says   Eastern Airlines Mystery Continues: 'We Were Close'   Bachelor Nick Viall: I Was 'More Aware' of Drama Than Some Women Realized   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Glitz, Gowns and Politics at This Year's Oscars   How Lady Gaga Got in Shape for Her Super Bowl Halftime Performance   At a Cool $250M, LA Mega-Mansion Is Priciest Listing in US

Three teens were rescued off the coast of the Florida Keys Tuesday after their boat capsized, according to authorities.

The teens -- identified by officials as brothers Jacob Sowder, 16, and Zachary Sowder, 18, and Brent Shishido, 18, all of Orange County, Calif. -- were found sitting on top of a 22-foot rental boat about two miles off the shore of Little Torch Key, according to the Monroe County Sheriff's Office.

The boat was anchored in about 30 feet of water when it started to take on water. By the time the teens were able to cut the anchor line, the boat had taken on too much water and capsized, police said.

The teens managed to climb on top of the hull, according to police. One of the teens was able to call 911 from his cellphone and relay their approximate location to rescuers.

In the 911 call, obtained by ABC News, one of the teens tells the dispatcher that they "are in the middle of the ocean" and had "flipped" the boat. He says there are other boats nearby but they can't see them, and that the life jackets are underneath the boat. The other teens can be heard yelling "help!" in the background.

When the dispatcher asked if the boat was sinking, the teen replied, "We are on top -- but I don't know for how long."

Monroe County Sheriffs Office

Monroe County Marine Deputy and Fish and Wildlife Investigator David Bingham responded to the teens' location around 3:15, police said. After searching for them, the found the teens sitting on top of the boat. They then loaded them onto the patrol boat and brought them to shore.