Uzbekistan's new president keeps 'princess' locked up while niece gets spotlight
Fears grow for Uzbek princess as she's usurped as nation poster girl


Concern is rising over the fate of vanished Uzbekistan princess Gulnara Karimova as the country's new despot refuses calls from her family to prove to the world that she is still alive.

Iron-fisted President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has ignored a demand by the son of the glamorous 44-year-old daughter of his predecessor to reveal her fate.

Islam Karimov, 24, grandson and namesake of the former Tashkent tyrant, has voiced fears that 59-year-old Mirziyoyev's security operatives plan to to 'eliminate her, most likely by poisoning'

A month has passed since Karimov junior called on the new ruler in gas-rich Uzbekistan to show her face, but the new regime rigidly refuses to comment on her or discuss its treatment of a woman who had been viewed earlier as plotting to stop Mirziyoyev's ascent to power.

Scroll down for video

Locked up: Concern is rising over the fate of vanished Uzbek princess Gulnara Karimova as the country's new despot refuses calls from her family to prove to the world that she is still alive

Hidden away: Karimova's whereabouts have been shrouded in mystery since she 'disappeared' in 2014 during a family feud. She was seen as her father's natural successor until they fell out. She was reportedly locked up by Uzbekistan's new president Shavkat Mirziyoyev

Rumours: There were claims Karimova had been poisoned and had died, but her son Islam Karimov Junior, denied those reports. He accused the Uzbek security services of keeping her in isolation in a two-bedroom annexe next to her main property in central Tashkent

Natural successor: Karimova, 44, daughter of former Uzbek president Islam Karimov, left and right, was seen as her father's heir apparent until the pair fell out

Impersonators: Islam Junior, right, has even claimed that Mirziyoyev's agents deploy Gulnara lookalikes in Tashkent to make people think she can move around freely when, Islam believes, his mother is being 'terrorised' under house arrest

He even claims that Mirziyoyev's agents deploy Gulnara lookalikes in the Uzbek capital, to make people think she can move around freely, when she is being 'terrorised' and held incommunicado in a cramped outhouse to her former home.

'Women looking like her have been hired, dressed and driven around the city. But my mother has never got out of there,' he said from exile in London.

A human rights source from the repressive state said today: 'It seems Mirziyoyev wants her to disappear. It is likely we will never see Gulnara again. I fear for her fate.'

Another said that under house arrest in Yahyo Gulyamov Street in Tashkent, Gulnara had been 'treated like a dog' and not fed properly.

Meanwhile, we can reveal, Uzbekistan has a new 'princess', sultry 27 year old fashionista Diora Usmanova, who is rapidly emerging as poster girl to colourless strongman Mirziyoyev, her uncle.

Diora now occupies the role of most prominent Uzbek woman, once held by the vanished Gulnara who in her heyday won a vast fortune thanks to the patronage of her father, ruler of Uzbekistan for more than a quarter of a century until his death in September.

Diora is also niece-in-law to billionaire tycoon Alisher Usmanov, the pro-Vladimir Putin tycoon worth £7.58 billion, who is a major shareholder at Arsenal listed as the tenth richest man in Britain.

But the fate of Gulnara is a stark warning of what can happen to to Caspian princesses, the prominent daughters of the most powerful clans, when their luck runs out.

At the height of her nepotistic sway, Harvard-educated Gulnara, a judo black belt, was simultaneously the wealthiest woman oligarch in the former USSR as well as a pop star, catwalk model, socialite, fashion designer, foreign diplomat, heir apparent to her cruel father, and, in her own words, an 'exotic Uzbekistan beauty'.

'Bad princess': The Harvard-educated Gulnara, 44, was the wealthiest woman oligarch in the former USSR as well as a pop star, catwalk model, socialite, fashion designer, foreign diplomat, heir apparent, and, in her own words, an 'exotic Uzbekistan beauty'

Radio silence: Mirziyoev barred Gulnara, pictured, from her father's funeral and refuses to let her communicate with the outside world. She is understood to be barred from any foreign contacts, or making public statements

Ray of hope: Mirziyoev's government refused to comment on recent reports that Gulnara was dead and failed to show pictures of her to prove she is alive but suddenly active Twitter accounts supposedly belonging to her give hope that she is being heard again

Family in hiding: Karimova's son Islam, 24, pictured, remains hidden in exile in London while her daughter, 18-year-old Iman's whereabouts are unknown. He denied that his mother had been poisoned

Her handle last month bizarrely called for Sir Alex Ferguson to be put in charge of the Uzbek national football team.

'I know he's a pensioner, but where there is a will there is a way,' she supposedly wrote. I had Sir Alex's contacts. I will talk to him and we'll sign him up.'

Earlier, she asked for forgiveness for her gargantuan corruption, if the Twitter is to be believed.

'Who didn't abuse their work position. Yes I did. I confess,' her Twitter asked. 'I .... ask everyone to forgive me.

'Looking back through the moments of past I realise what a divided family we were. Power broke our friendship. Money, glory, revenge - why?'

'I beg Shavkat Mirziyoyev to forgive me. I crossed the line because of not enough knowledge and too many emotions, very woman-like. I am sorry. He is a truly decent successor of my Father. I believe that he will bring glory to the country.'

In other postings the author turned on the acting president who is busy replacing Karimov's apparatchiks with his own henchmen as he consolidated his power ahead of the poll.

One read: 'Well, I'd like to punch him in the face. This is somebody that we want for president? I don't think so.'

Followed swiftly by: 'I mean he's so blatantly stupid. He's a punk. He's a dog. He's a pig. He doesn't know what he's talking about.'

An investigation by the country's broadcaster found the Tweets, mostly sent in December around the time of the election, were fake and may have been written by the country's security services to disgrace Gulnara further.

Former British ambassador to Tashkent, Craig Murray, once described her as a beautiful but deadly James Bond villainess.

He said: 'Gulnara Karimova is one hell of a package. Richer than Paris Hilton, undeniably smarter and arguably sexier - and I've met both.'

She was shut away by her own father three years ago - and her social media removed - after his aides including Mirziyoyev had revealed the scale of her supposed corruption: there are allegations of money laundering in the US and Switzerland.

'Good princess': While Gulnara remains locked up she is set to be replaced as Uzbekistan's new poster girl by Diora Usmanova, pictured, niece of the country's new president

Disapproval: Diora's critics have accused her of parading her wealth and parroting condescending web wisdom to the impoverished people of Uzbekistan

Judgement: Diora has sparked controversy by hitting out at other countries' fashion choices, and has called Paris 'boring'

Diora, who regularly posts glitzy pictures of her as well as images of her daughter, above, for her 160,000 Instagram followers, added a picture this week of her casting her vote

Help in times of trouble: After Diora's husband died, Diora, right, leaned on the help of Alisher Usmanov's wife, Irina Viner, left

She was seen as the 'most hated woman' in Uzbekistan, but her current fate shows how even the mighty can face brutal repression in this tyrannical state.

'When my grandfather was alive, they could not hurt my mother not to make him angry. Now, there is no such concern,' said Islam junior, who said she is held by agents of the presidential security service.

She has not been charged with any offence or faced a trial.

'They want to eliminate her, most likely by poisoning,' he alleged, suggesting she can never be released because those complicit in her captivity would have to explain their actions.

'They are not interested in freeing her, because then everything will be revealed. They will have to answer a lot of questions then. No-one could answer these questions.'

He denied reports that emerged during the election that she had been killed, and quickly buried, but admits he has not spoken to her since soon after she was shut away by her increasingly geriatric father on the advice of his aides.

But he admitted: 'I cannot say 100 per cent that she is alive until I can speak to her.'

Rumours have suggested the American embassy took Gulnara into its care but he said was is kept in an outhouse of her former home 'with two or three rooms'.

'Every person who tries to visit her is immediately detained,' he revealed.

'All this is fully controlled by the SNB' - the presidential security service, answering to Mirziyoyev.

Islam junior's sister Iman, 18, who holds US citizenship, is forced to live at a state-run hotel in Tashkent and can see her mother no more than once a month.

'They are trying to expel her from the country, but she does not want to go anywhere without my mother,' said Islam Junior, who claimed his grandmother Tatyana, the former first lady, is conniving in Gulnara's detention.

Distressed: Diora has previously described the speculation about her husband's death as 'hurtful', including the awkward question over why he was with a young woman at the time

Extravagence: Diora uses her social media to promote her luxury children's couture costing £5,000, equivalent to the annual pay of 13 people on a minimum wage in Uzbekistan

Tragedy: Diora's husband, Babur Usmanov, left, died in a car crash in 2013. Babur and Diora, right, embrace on their wedding day

Family: Diora, above, pictured with her grandmother, is also the niece-in-law of billionaire tycoon Alisher Usmanov, the tenth-richest man in Britain

'If she (Iman) leaves, and if anything happens to my mother, there will be no witnesses to it and nobody will be able to keep in touch with her because I cannot directly contact my mother either,' he said.

In contrast to Gulnara, 'good princess' Diora appears to lead a charmed life as the niece of the new president and her social media has no curbs.

Other members of his family are barely seen, while upscale fashion designer Diora is highly visible, trilling her thoughts to her 163,000 Instagram followers.

Gawky pictures of his wife, two daughters and son were briefly seen at the December 4 presidential election in which he claimed 88.6per cent of the vote, seen by Western observers as a highly suspect poll.

Diora is rumoured to be in love again to a mystery suitor after the 2013 death of her husband in a car crash, and she now boasts an impressive public profile which was once the sole preserve of 'bad princess' Gulnara.

Critics accuse the younger woman of ostentatiously parading her wealth and parroting condescending web wisdom to the impoverished people of this benighted state.

Diora uses her social media to promote her luxury children's pearl-encrusted couture range, aimed at the oligarch set especially in Russia, with her outfits designed for the offspring of millionaires costing more than the salaries of a dozen cotton-pickers in her homeland.

Called Bibione Couture brand, her fashion-for-kids line is named after the nickname of her four year old daughter Mariyam.

When torturer and killer Karimov died, she loyally posted his picture with the loyal message: 'Our great president who dedicated his life to the people.'

On polling day in the country's 'rigged' election - she posted a picture of herself at the voting station in a low-cut jacket that might meet disapproval for non-VIPs in Islamiv Tashkent.

She captioned loyally: 'My President - Let Allah give the most serene future for our Great people', and posted emojis expressing her love for him and excitement at his election.

While most Uzbeks live modestly in the basket case economy supervised for a dozen years by Mirziyoyev as premier, she travels the world lamenting at the West's failure to live up to her demands.

Nicknamed Corruptistan, Transparancy International called Uzbekistan 'an oligarch-authoritarian state where public resources are misused to sustain power to the benefit of those in or close to the ruling elite'.

It is labelled one of the most corrupt states on Earth, where its riches of gas, gold, uranium and cotton are not used for the benefit of its people.

'Corruption allows the elite to illegally appropriate the country's natural resources and acts as a facilitator of human rights violations in cotton plantations,' explained Transparancy International.

Diora trilled: 'I get depressed in Paris after a week of being there. Moscow is fun and Paris is boring.'

She lambasted dress-down women in Switzerland - where she once lived with her late husband - for their lack of chic in wearing baggy sweaters and flip-flops when they go out, lamenting: 'The most awful thing is that you begin to get yourself adjusted to the local community.'

Sometimes dressed in revealing clothes, she plainly enjoys the protection of her uncle, a man suspected in the West of grotesque extra-judicial killings in his rise to power under Karimov.

A socialite and businesswoman dubbed 'strikingly beautiful' by Russian Tatler, she is known to be close to Alisher Usmanov's wife Irina Viner, a world-famous rhythmic gymnastics coach who is also mentor to Vladimir Putin's alleged lover Alina Kabaeva, 33, who she trained as an Olympic gold medal winner.

Ignoring the poverty that grips her own country of 30 million people, Diora demands that children should go out 'dressed in couture dresses, not trainers'.

Yet life has not been always easy for the privileged Diora, with the tragic death in a mysterious car crash of her husband Babur Usmanov, widely seen as the heir to the childless Arsenal billionaire Usmanov.

The 30-year-old businessman worked for MetalloInvest, a company owned his uncle, in the Swiss town of Zug, and was seen as being groomed by him to later take over his sprawling and complex business empire.

Yet Babur was killed in 2013 during a trip back to Tashkent to attend a cousin's wedding, and his death raises disturbing questions.

Officially, he was giving a lift to a glamorous female companion called Kristina Yuldasheva, 23, when his open-topped Ford Cabriolet hit a kerb and overturned at 5.15am following the wedding party in a top night club

Past president: Islam Karimov, pictured, notoriously massacred protesters, boiled foes to death and permitted rape as a form of torture, was the president of Uzbekistan until September when he died

Corruption: Mirziyayev, who won the recent election, has been blamed for several deaths and beatings during his rise to power

'I saw two people thrown out of the open Cabriolet car, I called ambulance and traffic police,' said an anonymous eye-witness at the time. The young woman also died.

Babur's security detail was nowhere to be seen.

One account fed to the local media at the time implied Babur was 'very drunk', which his friends angrily denied.