Panasonic Commits To Solar Cell Production With Tesla At New York Plant
Panasonic Commits To Solar Cell Production With Tesla At New York Plant
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alan Ohnsman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Tesla's solar module factory, begun by SolarCity, nears completion in Buffalo, N.Y. (AP Photo/Mike Groll) Panasonic will make solar cells with Tesla at a factory under construction in Buffalo, New York, broadening a partnership between the electric-car maker and Japanese electronics giant that goes back nearly a decade. The companies said in a joint statement today that they finalized plans to produce high-efficiency photovoltaic cells at the plant, with initial production scheduled for the second half of 2017. Output of the energy modules, for use in solar panels, Tesla’s planned solar roofs and to charge up Tesla’s Powerwall and Powerpack battery storage units, is to reach 1 gigawatt by 2019, the companies said. As part of the arrangement, Panasonic will fund capital costs for the plant – at least 30 billion yen ($256 million) according to Reuters, citing presentation materials from the company – and lead production of the solar cells. Tesla is making a long-term commitment to buy them. The $900 million factory project, begun by SolarCity before it was bought by Tesla, is also being built with incentives from New York worth $750 million. When fully operational, it will be the largest producer of photovoltaic modules in North America, eventually churning out as many as 10,000 units per day and employing more than 1,400 people, including 500 manufacturing jobs. Prior to becoming part of Tesla, SolarCity's cash requirements had led it to delay the start of production at the factory. Tesla and Panasonic in October announced tentative plans for Panasonic to oversee solar cell production in Buffalo if shareholders approved Tesla’s $2 billion purchase of SolarCity. That occurred in mid-November . Panasonic has been a key Tesla ally for years, serving as its key supplier of lithium-ion battery cells and an investor and partner in Tesla’s Gigafactory in Nevada, intended to be the world’s largest battery plant when completed. In addition to the Buffalo project, Panasonic will also work with Tesla to develop next-generation solar technology, the companies said.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Panasonic will make solar cells with Tesla at a factory under construction in Buffalo, New York, broadening a partnership between the electric-car maker and Japanese electronics giant that goes back nearly a decade.

The companies said in a joint statement today that they finalized plans to produce high-efficiency photovoltaic cells at the plant, with initial production scheduled for the second half of 2017. Output of the energy modules, for use in solar panels, Tesla’s planned solar roofs and to charge up Tesla’s Powerwall and Powerpack battery storage units, is to reach 1 gigawatt by 2019, the companies said.

As part of the arrangement, Panasonic will fund capital costs for the plant – at least 30 billion yen ($256 million) according to Reuters, citing presentation materials from the company – and lead production of the solar cells. Tesla is making a long-term commitment to buy them.

The $900 million factory project, begun by SolarCity before it was bought by Tesla, is also being built with incentives from New York worth $750 million. When fully operational, it will be the largest producer of photovoltaic modules in North America, eventually churning out as many as 10,000 units per day and employing more than 1,400 people, including 500 manufacturing jobs. Prior to becoming part of Tesla, SolarCity's cash requirements had led it to delay the start of production at the factory.

Tesla and Panasonic in October announced tentative plans for Panasonic to oversee solar cell production in Buffalo if shareholders approved Tesla’s $2 billion purchase of SolarCity. That occurred in mid-November.

Panasonic has been a key Tesla ally for years, serving as its key supplier of lithium-ion battery cells and an investor and partner in Tesla’s Gigafactory in Nevada, intended to be the world’s largest battery plant when completed.

In addition to the Buffalo project, Panasonic will also work with Tesla to develop next-generation solar technology, the companies said.

Alan Ohnsman covers the intersection of technology, autos and mobility. Follow him on Twitter and LinkedIn.