UNICEF USAVoice: Ten-Year-Old Syrian Refugee Hiba Tells How She Survived A Harrowing Journey
UNICEF USAVoice: Ten-Year-Old Syrian Refugee Hiba Tells How She Survived A Harrowing Journey
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  UNICEF USA       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

"They were dying all around us, asking for help. But we couldn't help."

These are the words of Hiba Nabulsi, a ten-year-old refugee from Syria. She now lives at a center in Macedonia, where UNICEF helps refugee children recover by providing education, healthcare, water and sanitation, nutrition, psychosocial support — and a hand to hold.

Watch Hiba tell her story here:

For five and a half years now, children in Syria have lived with raging conflict.

The violence has taken a toll. Of the 8.4 million children affected, some are displaced in their own homeland. Others live as refugees in neighboring countries. More than 15,000 have crossed Syria’s borders unaccompanied, separated from everything they knew, even their parents.

UNICEF has more than 200 staff members on the ground in Syria, assisting children. “For the youngest Syrian children, this crisis is all they have ever known,” says UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake.“For adolescents entering their formative years, violence and suffering have not only scarred their past; they are shaping their futures.”

The current child refugee crisis is the worst since World War II. Across the globe, nearly 50 million children have been uprooted, with 28 million fleeing brutal conflict and millions more escaping extreme poverty. Behind these numbers are children caught in wars in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and the South Sudan; children driven from their homes by violence or deprivation and forced to make difficult and dangerous journeys; and children who are out of school and don’t know when they might return.

UNICEF is responding to this crisis across four continents: delivering lifesaving supplies to children and their families fleeing escalating violence in the Middle East and Northern Africa, providing water and tents to create safe spaces for the growing wave of children moving through Europe and working to improve the lives of children fleeing violence and abuse in Central America.

You can help child refugees by making a tax-deductible donation now.