Meet RBI's New Deputy Governor, Viral Acharya, Who Also Has A Music Album To His Credit!
Meet RBI's New Deputy Governor, Viral Acharya, Who Also Has A Music Album To His Credit!
Meet RBI's New Deputy Governor, Viral Acharya, Who Also Has A Music Album To His Credit! On Wednesday, the Reserve Bank of India added a new asset to its rolls - Professor Viral Acharya. Joining the RBI as the latest deputy governor - as appointed by the government - Acharya will join the league of the other three deputy governors, Vishwanathan, S S Mundra, and R Gandhi, serving under RBI Governor Urjit Patel. Little is known about Acharya who idolises the former RBI chief, Raghuram Rajan and shares a similar (and as stellar) academic background as him. Without further ado, let's take a look at Acharya's portfolio. 1. Acharya's educational qualifications can put anyone to shame. A 1995 BTech graduate in Computer Science and Engineering from IIT-Mumbai, Acharya earned his Ph.D in finance from the prestigious NYU-Stern in 2001. 2. He then went on to work with the London Business School in 2001 and served as the Academic Director of the Coller Institute of Private Equity at LBS from 2007 to 2009. 3. During the summer of 2008, Acharya also worked as a senior Houblon-Normal research fellow at the Bank of England. 4. Acharya has also been appointed to a number of international and national advisory councils such as SEBI, BSE, etc. 5. The 42-year-old has also co-authored a few research papers with Raghuram Rajan, whom he considers his role model. 6. He once said, "I realised if I have Raghu as my role model and even I hit 5 per cent or 10 per cent of that, I can easily pass off as poor man’s Raghu Rajan." 7. He has bagged numerous awards for his achievements, the most recent being the 'Rising Star in Finance Award'. 8. The best bit about this academician, however, is that he has a music album to his name. 9. He has to his credit at least ten songs including Y . 10. All the money raised through his songs are channeled toward a charity 'Pratham' that works for child education. Here's wishing him good luck for his stint with the RBI.

On Wednesday, the Reserve Bank of India added a new asset to its rolls - Professor Viral Acharya. Joining the RBI as the latest deputy governor - as appointed by the government - Acharya will join the league of the other three deputy governors, Vishwanathan, S S Mundra, and R Gandhi, serving under RBI Governor Urjit Patel.

Blockchain News

Little is known about Acharya who idolises the former RBI chief, Raghuram Rajan and shares a similar (and as stellar) academic background as him.

Without further ado, let's take a look at Acharya's portfolio.

1. Acharya's educational qualifications can put anyone to shame. A 1995 BTech graduate in Computer Science and Engineering from IIT-Mumbai, Acharya earned his Ph.D in finance from the prestigious NYU-Stern in 2001.

YouTube

2. He then went on to work with the London Business School in 2001 and served as the Academic Director of the Coller Institute of Private Equity at LBS from 2007 to 2009.

NYU Stern

3. During the summer of 2008, Acharya also worked as a senior Houblon-Normal research fellow at the Bank of England.

4. Acharya has also been appointed to a number of international and national advisory councils such as SEBI, BSE, etc.

5. The 42-year-old has also co-authored a few research papers with Raghuram Rajan, whom he considers his role model.

nyu-stern/wikipedia

6. He once said, "I realised if I have Raghu as my role model and even I hit 5 per cent or 10 per cent of that, I can easily pass off as poor man’s Raghu Rajan."

YouTube

7. He has bagged numerous awards for his achievements, the most recent being the 'Rising Star in Finance Award'.

8. The best bit about this academician, however, is that he has a music album to his name.

9. He has to his credit at least ten songs including Yadon Ke Silsele – an Ode to Friends , and Kya Yeh Wohi Phir Raat Hai – Passion.

Viral Acharya

10. All the money raised through his songs are channeled toward a charity 'Pratham' that works for child education.

IAES

Here's wishing him good luck for his stint with the RBI.