Paris estate agent apologises for advertising flat to 'French nationals only, no blacks'
Paris estate agent apologises for 'no blacks' rental advert


An estate agents in Paris has been accused of racism after it posted an advert for a rental property, which specified 'no blacks'.

Laforêt advertised the apartment in the Levallois-Perret suburb of the French capital, with a message at the bottom reading 'important attention for the selection of tenants: French nationality compulsory, no blacks.'

The estate agency has since apologised and blamed a 'naive' employee, who no longer works at the company after the picture of the advert was posted on Twitter.

An estate agents in Paris has been accused of racism after it posted an advert which specified 'no blacks'

Agency head Laurent Balestra told France Info that he was 'shocked' by the incident - and that it was the homeowner who was 'racist', and not Laforêt.

'I was quite shocked, I asked the real estate agent for explanations,' he said.

'There were black people who were visiting the apartment

The swanky apartment is in the Levallois-Perret suburb of the French capital

'When owners are racist, I give my staff instructions not to take their bookings. You cannot afford racism in this area'.

The Twitter user who spotted the advert first posted a picture in November asking the agency to explain.

When he did not receive a response he tweeted again on Boxing Day, bringing it to the attention of several leading French human rights groups, journalists and politicians.

In his tweeted he asked 'what kind of criteria is that?', in a post that was retweeted almost 2000 times.

Front National led by Marine Le Pen is expected to make it through to the run-off for next year’s presidential election

The incident comes amid rising racial tensions in France in the wake of terror attacks by Isis militants in Paris and Nice.

Far-right political parties, including the Front National led by Marine Le Pen, have been doing well in the polls by calling for an end to immigration and a referendum on EU membership.