19 times nature was completely terrifying in 2016
19 times nature was completely terrifying in 2016
Nature proved once again in 2016 that it will forever be terrifying. No matter how far we come with technological advancements and our progression into a more civilized culture, the wild world around us will continue to live on like we don't even matter. SEE ALSO: 25 striking wildlife photos that show nature at its most tranquil and brutal From snakes in toilets, jerk kangaroos, evil birds and nosy grizzlies, here are 19 times nature proved we're better off staying indoors this year.   1. That time a snake bit a man's penis while he was using the toilet    2. When a kangaroo decided to kick the crap out of a man's car    3. Electrocuted cannibal snakes     4. The drunk, knife-wielding monkey    5. This snake that WENT BACK DOWN INTO THE TOILER AND WAS NERVER SEEN AGAIN    6. The kangaroo that tried to strangle this dude's dog    7. When a python was found chilling in a women's bathroom in a National Park in Australia    8. When a bear walked right up to a woman hanging outside her home    9. This hungry, hungry hippo     10. The alligator that tried to enter a house in Florida    11. When a whale scared the sh*t out of a paddleboarder    12. When a woman in Australia found a 16-foot python chilling in her house    13. When a bald eagle decided to show off how badass it is in front of a nest camera    14. When a grizzly stalked some hikers for 30 minutes    15. When a bunch of snakes tried to kill the poor iguana on 'Planet Earth II'     16. This massive wasps' nest discovered in someone's attic    17. The mysterious purple blob     18. This motherf*cking snake on a motherf*cking plane    19. Giant cannibal alligators   BONUS: This polar bear petting a dog is proof that everything is going to be just fine

Nature proved once again in 2016 that it will forever be terrifying.

No matter how far we come with technological advancements and our progression into a more civilized culture, the wild world around us will continue to live on like we don't even matter.

SEE ALSO: 25 striking wildlife photos that show nature at its most tranquil and brutal

From snakes in toilets, jerk kangaroos, evil birds and nosy grizzlies, here are 19 times nature proved we're better off staying indoors this year.