Following Mary Kom's Footsteps, This Kashmiri Female Boxer Aspires To Make India Proud At Olympics
Following Mary Kom's Footsteps, This Kashmiri Boxer Aspires To Make India Proud At Olympics
Following Mary Kom's Footsteps, This Kashmiri Female Boxer Aspires To Make India Proud At Olympics In the last decade or so, India's love with boxing has increased by leaps and bounds. Olympic medals won by Vijender Singh in 2008 and MC Mary Kom in 2012 has ensured that India started taking boxing as a sport seriously. Champions like Vijender and Mary Kom also inspire a lot of youngsters to take up the sport amid societal pressures and cultural stereotypes. One such budding boxer is a first-year medical student from the Kashmir valley who hopes to one day represent India at the Olympics. Andleeb Zehra is breaking all stereotypes in the state. She comes from a middle class family and lives in Magam village, District Budgam. Since childhood Andleeb has been fond of sports and used to take part in sports activities during her school days. Upon watching Mary Kom boxing in the ring, Andleeb decided to join boxing and started taking classes at the indoor stadium from professional coaches. Andleeb credits her parents and friends for the overwhelming support she has been getting and encouraging her to take part in the sport."My family supported me. In fact my family and friends were very happy with my decision," Andleeb said. She has to travel 22 kms one way from her home to the training facility and shell out Rs 700 as travel cost. She says that studies and sports need a harmonious balance which is pertinent to lead a healthy life. "I don`t think it would have any negative impact on studies. I reckon sports and education carry equal importance. It is necessary to have a healthy life," Andleeb said. "I think boxing is a very good sport for women. This helps them to have a self defence. This sport provides good opportunities to women, as such one can participate in Olympics as well," she added. So far Andleeb has participated in many events in the state and recently won Silver medal in state Boxing Championship which was held at Jammu. Andleeb has now dream to become like Mary Kom and earn medals for country. Her coach, Farooq Khan said that Andleeb has the sporting skills will win many medals in the future.

In the last decade or so, India's love with boxing has increased by leaps and bounds. Olympic medals won by Vijender Singh in 2008 and MC Mary Kom in 2012 has ensured that India started taking boxing as a sport seriously.

Champions like Vijender and Mary Kom also inspire a lot of youngsters to take up the sport amid societal pressures and cultural stereotypes. One such budding boxer is a first-year medical student from the Kashmir valley who hopes to one day represent India at the Olympics.

Andleeb Zehra is breaking all stereotypes in the state. She comes from a middle class family and lives in Magam village, District Budgam.

ANI

Since childhood Andleeb has been fond of sports and used to take part in sports activities during her school days. Upon watching Mary Kom boxing in the ring, Andleeb decided to join boxing and started taking classes at the indoor stadium from professional coaches.

Andleeb credits her parents and friends for the overwhelming support she has been getting and encouraging her to take part in the sport."My family supported me. In fact my family and friends were very happy with my decision," Andleeb said.

She has to travel 22 kms one way from her home to the training facility and shell out Rs 700 as travel cost.

She says that studies and sports need a harmonious balance which is pertinent to lead a healthy life. "I don`t think it would have any negative impact on studies. I reckon sports and education carry equal importance. It is necessary to have a healthy life," Andleeb said.

ANI

"I think boxing is a very good sport for women. This helps them to have a self defence. This sport provides good opportunities to women, as such one can participate in Olympics as well," she added.

So far Andleeb has participated in many events in the state and recently won Silver medal in state Boxing Championship which was held at Jammu. Andleeb has now dream to become like Mary Kom and earn medals for country. Her coach, Farooq Khan said that Andleeb has the sporting skills will win many medals in the future.

ANI

So far Andleeb has participated in many events in the state and recently won Silver medal in state Boxing Championship which was held at Jammu. Andleeb has now dream to become like marry Kom and earn medals for country.Her coach, Farooq Khan said that Andleeb has the sporting skills will win many medals in the future.

With ANI inputs