Lil B Links Up With Metro Boomin On The New Track "My House"
Lil B Links Up With Metro Boomin On The New Track "My House"
After teasing his upcoming mixtape last month , Lil B has rolled out its first official single. It’s a Metro Boomin-assisted track called “My House.” The song, which debuted at Miami’s Rolling Loud Festival earlier this year, samples Bone Thugs-N-Harmony’s hit track “Crossroads," and features the BasedGod bragging about his lavish crib: "Come to my house, you'll be up on your knees/Ever seen pool in the livin' room?/10-car garage, twenty chromes/My house the largest on the block/So tell me, is you comin', or not?" No release date has yet been announced for , but that hasn't stopped Lil B from dedicating the project to, well, a whole bunch of people, magazines, and festivals. Lil b Black Ken dedicated to fader pitchfork and Coachella - Lil B Lil b black Ken dedicated to nick young coming soon - Lil B You are not hungry you are dehydrated.... I love you, also b black Ken dedicated to Charles Hamilton  - Lil B Black Ken dedicated to Vince staples - Lil B Lil b Black Ken dedicated to  - Lil B

After teasing his upcoming mixtape Black Ken last month, Lil B has rolled out its first official single. It’s a Metro Boomin-assisted track called “My House.”

The song, which debuted at Miami’s Rolling Loud Festival earlier this year, samples Bone Thugs-N-Harmony’s hit track “Crossroads," and features the BasedGod bragging about his lavish crib: "Come to my house, you'll be up on your knees/Ever seen pool in the livin' room?/10-car garage, twenty chromes/My house the largest on the block/So tell me, is you comin', or not?"

No release date has yet been announced for Black Ken, but that hasn't stopped Lil B from dedicating the project to, well, a whole bunch of people, magazines, and festivals.

Lil b Black Ken mixtape dedicated to fader pitchfork and Coachella - Lil B — Lil B THE BASEDGOD ( @LILBTHEBASEDGOD ) December 29, 2016

Lil b black Ken mixtape dedicated to Nba nick young @NickSwagyPYoung coming soon - Lil B — Lil B THE BASEDGOD ( @LILBTHEBASEDGOD ) December 26, 2016

You are not hungry you are dehydrated.... I love you, also lil b black Ken mixtape dedicated to Charles Hamilton iggy Azelia - Lil B — Lil B THE BASEDGOD ( @LILBTHEBASEDGOD ) December 25, 2016

Black Ken mixtape dedicated to Vince staples - Lil B — Lil B THE BASEDGOD ( @LILBTHEBASEDGOD ) December 24, 2016