Vladimir Putin Says Syria Cease-Fire Deal Reached, Hostilities to End
Putin Says Syria Cease-Fire Deal Reached, Hostilities to End 
Shares               An agreement to end hostilities in Syria's bloody five-year civil war has been reached, Russian President Vladimir Putin said today. The deal, signed by the Syrian government and the armed opposition, ends hostilities at midnight local time, he said. Syria's military today said it agreed to the nationwide cease-fire. "Three documents have been signed," Putin said during a meeting with Russia's foreign and defense ministers. "The first document is between the Syrian government and the armed opposition on a cease-fire on the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic. The second document is a package of measures to control the cease-fire regime. And the third document is a statement on readiness to begin peace talks on the Syrian settlement." According to The Associated Press, Russia and Turkey will guarantee the truce, Putin said, adding that the parties agreed to meet for peace talks in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan , a former Soviet republic. Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said the truce will include 62,000 opposition fighters across Syria, the AP reported. The Kremlin said Putin spoke with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan by telephone to discuss the agreement and both "are satisfied." The U.N. special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, "welcomes the announcement of a nationwide cease-fire" and "hopes that the implementation of the agreement will save civilian lives, facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance across Syria and pave the way for productive talks in Astana," according to a statement from his spokeswoman, Jessy Chahine. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said U.S. President-elect Donald Trump will be welcomed to join the Syrian peace process after he takes office in January.  Shares                  Putin Says Syria Cease-Fire Deal Reached, Hostilities to End   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Amnesty: As Many as 13,000 Hanged in Syria Prison Since 2011   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   NTSB Set to Release Cause of Fiery North Dakota Train Crash   Kansas Woman Runs 1st Full Mile Since Leg Amputation   Teen Admits Killing Florida Woman in London Knife Rampage   Palestinians Urge Sanctions Over Israel's Settlement Law   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   At $250M, Los Angeles Home Most Expensive Listed in US

An agreement to end hostilities in Syria's bloody five-year civil war has been reached, Russian President Vladimir Putin said today.

The deal, signed by the Syrian government and the armed opposition, ends hostilities at midnight local time, he said. Syria's military today said it agreed to the nationwide cease-fire.

"Three documents have been signed," Putin said during a meeting with Russia's foreign and defense ministers. "The first document is between the Syrian government and the armed opposition on a cease-fire on the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic. The second document is a package of measures to control the cease-fire regime. And the third document is a statement on readiness to begin peace talks on the Syrian settlement."

According to The Associated Press, Russia and Turkey will guarantee the truce, Putin said, adding that the parties agreed to meet for peace talks in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, a former Soviet republic.

Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said the truce will include 62,000 opposition fighters across Syria, the AP reported.

The Kremlin said Putin spoke with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan by telephone to discuss the agreement and both "are satisfied."

The U.N. special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, "welcomes the announcement of a nationwide cease-fire" and "hopes that the implementation of the agreement will save civilian lives, facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance across Syria and pave the way for productive talks in Astana," according to a statement from his spokeswoman, Jessy Chahine.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said U.S. President-elect Donald Trump will be welcomed to join the Syrian peace process after he takes office in January.

ABC News' Benjamin Gittleson and Tanya Stukalova contributed to this report. The Associated Press also contributed to this report.