Ed Sheeran in fight with council over plans to build cartlodge at his country home
Ed Sheeran in fight with council over plans to build cartlodge at his country home
he singer Ed Sheeran is embroiled in a planning dispute with his local council after he was refused permission to build a new 'cartlodge' at his country home. Sheeran, 25, wants to build the structure with parking bays for four vehicles and a first floor storeroom beside his £900,000 modern farmhouse in Suffolk. But the council refused him permission for the outbuilding after officials ruled that it would be out of keeping with the rural area. Sheeran, who is said to be worth some £40 million, is now appealing to the Government's Planning Inspectorate in a bid to get the ruling overturned. is plans for the 1.5 storey building were supported by the local parish council and no villagers objected. However, a report by council officials said it represented "creeping domestication and would have an adverse impact on the character and appearance of the countryside". Ironically it was Sheeran himself who demolished the previous cartlodge and replaced it with a swimming pool. Council officials said building a new cartlodge near the pool would represent an overdevelopment of the area. The council's case officer Anita Kittle said the 12m x 8m outbuilding would be an "incongruous feature" in a "peaceful" rural setting. he added that discussions were held to reconsider the planned location for the 5.6m tall brick and timber building, but Sheeran's agents had offered no alternatives. The cartlodge was planned to replace a previous one, which was demolished to make way for a new indoor swimming pool at the star's home. Planning consultant Laurie McGee, who submitted the planning application said it would have been screened by fencing, trees and landscaping. She insisted that it was of "modest proportions" and would not have any effect on a nearby Grade 2 listed 16th century farmhouse. Sheeran, who won two Grammy Awards this year for his single , has already been granted planning consent for a range of improvements at his home including a four room tree house, orangery, decking, a Jacuzzi. e was also given permission for a 26ft by 26ft 'pod' with a recording studio, described by villagers as 'a Hobbit Hole'. The Planning Inspectorate is to determine his appeal for the cartlodge by written representations with final comments due to be submitted by next Wednesday. Peter Le Grys, of Stanfords, the agent for the appeal, said: "It is not our policy to discuss matters which are at appeal." Sheeran's manager and the council did not respond to requests for comment. The singer came to prominence in 2011 with his debut album + (read as ‘plus’). The album contained the single "The A Team", which earned him the Ivor Novello Award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically. The following year Sheeran won the Brit Awards for Best British Male Solo Artist and British Breakthrough Act. He is also rumoured to be headlining next year's Glastonbury Festival .

The singer Ed Sheeran is embroiled in a planning dispute with his local council after he was refused permission to build a new 'cartlodge' at his country home.

Sheeran, 25, wants to build the structure with parking bays for four vehicles and a first floor storeroom beside his £900,000 modern farmhouse in Suffolk.

But the council refused him permission for the outbuilding after officials ruled that it would be out of keeping with the rural area.

Sheeran, who is said to be worth some £40 million, is now appealing to the Government's Planning Inspectorate in a bid to get the ruling overturned.