Met adjusts New Year's Eve policing plan after Nice and Berlin attacks

Press Association    Terrorist truck attacks in Nice and Berlin have forced police to adjust plans for protecting crowds in London on New Year’s Eve, a senior officer has said. Armed police will join about 3,000 officers on the streets of the capital on Saturday as hundreds of thousands of people flock to watch the official fireworks display. Concerns about the threat of a mass-casualty attack targeting the occasion have been heightened after extremists struck busy public events in Europe. In July, a lorry ploughed down the packed seafront promenade in Nice during Bastille Day celebrations, killing 86 people and injuring hundreds of others. A Christmas market in the heart of Berlin was the scene of a similar atrocity in December, when 12 people died after a truck packed with steel was driven into crowds. But DS Phil Langworthy of the Metropolitan police sought to reassure the public, saying there were overt and covert measures in place for protection. He said: “We have been looking at what has happened around the world in terms of Berlin, Nice, etc, and have adjusted our plans and continue to adjust our plans. “We police around 3,500 large events every year including on New Year’s Eve and we meticulously plan those events … and we look at our tactics and we look around the world and adjust our tactics if need be. “We have a very extensive planning period, we plan for many months, pretty much we start planning since the last event.” He said there was no specific intelligence for an attack on the event. He added: “I would encourage people on the night if they see anything suspicious or have any concerns to come and speak to one of the police officers or stewards who will be on duty.” Huge numbers are expected to ring in the new year on the banks of the Thames, with partygoers likely to head to other parts of central London, including major tourist spots such as Trafalgar Square. Police are urging those who do not have tickets for the fireworks, which has sold out, to watch it at home instead. Road closures will be in place from 2pm on 31 December , affecting Lambeth, Westminster, Waterloo and Blackfriars bridges. Topics  London   Metropolitan police   New year   Police   Bastille Day truck attack   Berlin Christmas market attack

Concerns about a potential mass-casualty plot in UK have been heightened after truck attacks in France and Germany

Terrorist truck attacks in Nice and Berlin have forced police to adjust plans for protecting crowds in London on New Year’s Eve, a senior officer has said.

Armed police will join about 3,000 officers on the streets of the capital on Saturday as hundreds of thousands of people flock to watch the official fireworks display.

Concerns about the threat of a mass-casualty attack targeting the occasion have been heightened after extremists struck busy public events in Europe.

Man wrongly arrested over Berlin attack says he fears for his life Read more

In July, a lorry ploughed down the packed seafront promenade in Nice during Bastille Day celebrations, killing 86 people and injuring hundreds of others. A Christmas market in the heart of Berlin was the scene of a similar atrocity in December, when 12 people died after a truck packed with steel was driven into crowds.

But DS Phil Langworthy of the Metropolitan police sought to reassure the public, saying there were overt and covert measures in place for protection.

He said: “We have been looking at what has happened around the world in terms of Berlin, Nice, etc, and have adjusted our plans and continue to adjust our plans.

“We police around 3,500 large events every year including on New Year’s Eve and we meticulously plan those events … and we look at our tactics and we look around the world and adjust our tactics if need be.

“We have a very extensive planning period, we plan for many months, pretty much we start planning since the last event.”

He said there was no specific intelligence for an attack on the event. He added: “I would encourage people on the night if they see anything suspicious or have any concerns to come and speak to one of the police officers or stewards who will be on duty.”

Huge numbers are expected to ring in the new year on the banks of the Thames, with partygoers likely to head to other parts of central London, including major tourist spots such as Trafalgar Square.

Police are urging those who do not have tickets for the fireworks, which has sold out, to watch it at home instead.

Road closures will be in place from 2pm on 31 December, affecting Lambeth, Westminster, Waterloo and Blackfriars bridges.