Scarlett Johansson Is The Top-Grossing Actor Of 2016
Scarlett Johansson Is The Top-Grossing Actor Of 2016
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Robehmed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As the Black Widow in Marvel's ' movies, Johansson has struck box office gold (Image credit: Marvel) Scarlett Johansson has had a good year at the box office. Between a top role as the Black Widow in blockbuster hit , which grossed over $1.15 billion worldwide, plus an ensemble part in the much less commercial , Johansson is 2016's top-grossing actor, bringing in $1.2 billion at global ticketing booths. She narrowly edges costars Chris Evans ($1.15 billion worldwide), who plays the titular character in Marvel's series, and Robert Downey Jr., otherwise known as Iron Man. The pair tie for second with $1.15 billion grossed worldwide. All three have to thank for their totals; it became the top-grossing movie of the year. The Top-Grossing Actors Of 2016 Along with 's Ryan Reynolds (No. 8), Johansson, Evans and Downey Jr. comprise the Marvel contingent on the list, which is largely made up of the stars of cinematic comic book creations. The actors of Warner Bros.' D.C. Comics efforts, such as and account for 50% of the top-grossing actors list. In fact, the only actor without a comic to thank for her total is ' Felicity Jones. The recently-released has already grossed half a billion dollars since its December debut--and counting. Its star, British actor Jones (No. 9), joins the top-grossing actors list this year for the first time with the Lucasfilm spin-off. Thanks in part to hits such as , when 2016 wraps up this week, analysts expect it to conclude as the biggest ever year in U.S. cinema history. The North American box office has already cleared an estimated $11.05 billion, with projections inching the total to some $11.3 billion by year-end. To calculate the ranking of top-grossing actors, we added up the 2016 global ticket sales of top actors’ films released this year, using data from Box Office Mojo as of December 27, 2016. We did not count animated movies where only actors' voices were used and only included actors who were top-billed and/or had the most screen time. Another new addition to the list: fourth-ranked Margot Robbie, who is one of four women on the list. was panned by critics but still played well at the multiplexes, where it grossed $745.6 million worldwide. Combined with a role in , these blockbusters account for her impressive $1.1 billion total. Rounding out the top five is Amy Adams. Though is still playing in theatres, its incomplete total, combined with a part as Lois Lane in , is still enough to nab Adams a spot on the list.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Scarlett Johansson has had a good year at the box office. Between a top role as the Black Widow in blockbuster hit Captain America: Civil War, which grossed over $1.15 billion worldwide, plus an ensemble part in the much less commercial Hail, Caesar!, Johansson is 2016's top-grossing actor, bringing in $1.2 billion at global ticketing booths.

She narrowly edges costars Chris Evans ($1.15 billion worldwide), who plays the titular character in Marvel's Captain America series, and Robert Downey Jr., otherwise known as Iron Man. The pair tie for second with $1.15 billion grossed worldwide. All three have Captain America: Civil War to thank for their totals; it became the top-grossing movie of the year.

Full list: The Top-Grossing Actors Of 2016

Along with Deadpool's Ryan Reynolds (No. 8), Johansson, Evans and Downey Jr. comprise the Marvel contingent on the list, which is largely made up of the stars of cinematic comic book creations. The actors of Warner Bros.' D.C. Comics efforts, such as Suicide Squad and Batman v Superman, account for 50% of the top-grossing actors list. In fact, the only actor without a comic to thank for her total is Star Wars' Felicity Jones.

The recently-released Rogue One: A Star Wars Story has already grossed half a billion dollars since its December debut--and counting. Its star, British actor Jones (No. 9), joins the top-grossing actors list this year for the first time with the Lucasfilm spin-off.

Thanks in part to hits such as Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, when 2016 wraps up this week, analysts expect it to conclude as the biggest ever year in U.S. cinema history. The North American box office has already cleared an estimated $11.05 billion, with projections inching the total to some $11.3 billion by year-end.

The World's Highest-Paid Actors 2016

To calculate the ranking of top-grossing actors, we added up the 2016 global ticket sales of top actors’ films released this year, using data from Box Office Mojo as of December 27, 2016. We did not count animated movies where only actors' voices were used and only included actors who were top-billed and/or had the most screen time.

Another new addition to the list: fourth-ranked Margot Robbie, who is one of four women on the list. Suicide Squad was panned by critics but still played well at the multiplexes, where it grossed $745.6 million worldwide. Combined with a role in The Legend of Tarzan, these blockbusters account for her impressive $1.1 billion total.

Rounding out the top five is Amy Adams. Though Arrival is still playing in theatres, its incomplete total, combined with a part as Lois Lane in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, is still enough to nab Adams a spot on the list.

Full list: The Top-Grossing Actors Of 2016

Follow me on Twitter.