Ball Brothers Work Out and Play Basketball on Christmas Day
Ball Brothers Work Out and Play Basketball on Christmas Day
The Ball brothers are taking the basketball world by storm, so it's no surprise to see them work through the holidays. magazine filmed the whole family spending Christmas Day together, including UCLA Bruins freshman and his younger brothers and , high school basketball stars in their own right. It's just like any other Christmas celebration...in which the kids get gear from an apparel company created in their honor. And who didn't spend the day doing pull-ups? Ball, the father whose UCLA title prediction no longer looks outlandish, said the boys get a "jump on people" by staying active on the holiday. "We know everybody else takes a break, and when they take a break, we jump another step in front of them," he said. "That allows us to be undefeated." Following a condensed round of horse, they settled down by playing dominoes and . After all, the three highly regarded prospects are all still teenagers who deserved some fun on their off day. [ ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

The Ball brothers are taking the basketball world by storm, so it's no surprise to see them work through the holidays.

Slam magazine filmed the whole family spending Christmas Day together, including UCLA Bruins freshman Lonzo and his younger brothers LiAngelo and LaMelo, high school basketball stars in their own right.

It's just like any other Christmas celebration...in which the kids get gear from an apparel company created in their honor.

And who didn't spend the day doing pull-ups?

LaVar Ball, the father whose UCLA title prediction no longer looks outlandish, said the boys get a "jump on people" by staying active on the holiday.

"We know everybody else takes a break, and when they take a break, we jump another step in front of them," he said. "That allows us to be undefeated."

Following a condensed round of horse, they settled down by playing dominoes and NBA 2K. After all, the three highly regarded prospects are all still teenagers who deserved some fun on their off day.

[Slam]