The foods you should NEVER put in the freezer revealed
Revealed: The foods you should NEVER put in the freezer


Freezing leftovers can be a great way to keep food from going off and reduce waste - especially at this time of year when you just can't stand to eat another turkey sandwich.

The freezer acts as a pause button, keeping food from going off for weeks and even months.

But there are some foods that should never be frozen - and they could even be dangerous for your health if you do.

From potatoes and breadcrumbs to any type of hot food, these are the foods you should never put in your freezer, according to Playbuzz.

1. POTATOES

From potatoes and breadcrumbs to any type of hot food, these are the foods you should never put in your freezer, according to Playbuzz

Raw potatoes can turn black in the freezer, according to Playbuzz, so it's to keep them in a cool dark place instead.

This is due to their high water content. However if you cook or puree the potatoes first, you will then be able to freeze them without affecting their quality.

2. WHOLE EGGS

When you freeze an egg, the yolk and white inside will expand, causing the shell to crack, says BBC Good Food.

But if you separate the whites before, you should be able to freeze them for future baking activities.

Freezing yolks is harder as the freezer can often make the yolks turn gummy. But you can counteract this problem by adding a pinch of salt before freezing, according to Martha Stewart.

3. BREADCRUMBS

Breadcrumbs tend to turn soft and develop an unpleasant texture in the freezer, says Playbuzz

Many recipes require breadcrumbs but it can be hard to tell how many you need before you begin. If you end up with too many, it's tempting to save them for the next time you need them by putting them in the freezer.

But breadcrumbs tend to turn soft and develop an unpleasant texture in the freezer, says Playbuzz, so it's best to make them fresh every time.

The same applies for a dish with breadcrumbs on top - defrost the meal but re-make the breadcrumbs for the topping.

4. SOME DAIRY PRODUCTS

Whipped cream, milk in its container, high-fat cream and fatty cheese all freeze beautifully.

But be wary of freezing other dairy products as the cold temperature can make them go watery over time.

Soft cheeses and creamy sauces such as salad dressing and mayonnaise in particular are foods never to put in the freezer.

5. ANY HOT FOOD

It's essential you wait until the food has cooled down completely before you go, says BBC Good Food

It's all too tempting to just bung your hot leftovers straight into the freezer once you've finished your meal.

But it's essential you wait until the food has cooled down completely before you go, says BBC Good Food.

Putting hot food into the freezer will lower the temperature of the freezer - causing other foods to partially defrost and bacteria to grow and spread.

6. CUCUMBERS

Cucumbers have a high water content, which means they will lose texture and flavour once defrosted after freezing, according to Playbuzz

Cucumbers have a high water content, which means they will lose texture and flavour once defrosted after freezing, according to Playbuzz.

The same applies to any high water-based vegetable, including spring greens, salad leaves and radishes.

7. THAWED FOOD

Re-freezing thawed food could make you seriously ill as bacteria can multiply quickly when food is brought back to room temperature.

If you put it back in the freezer, the bacteria will survive and will reach 'harmful levels,' according to BBC Good Food.

However if you cook the ingredient after thawing it, you can then re-freeze the meal afterwards as the bacteria would have been killed in the cooking process.

8. TINNED FOOD

Cans can explode or rupture in the freezer, according to Playbuzz

When the liquid inside the can freezes, it can expand.

This means the can itself can rupture or even explode, according to Playbuzz.

9. BADLY PACKAGED FOODS

If you haven't put your food in an airtight container or sealed it properly, it may develop freezer burn.

It will be safe to eat, but the quality and appearance will be affected - and it certainly won't look appetising.

10. WATERMELON

Any fruit with a high water content such as watermelon will go mushy and soft if you put them in the freezer

For the same reason that you can't freeze cucumbers well, you also can't freeze watermelon or any other fruit with a high water content.