Rishi Kapoor's Tweet Gets Massively Trolled, Twinkle Khanna's 43rd Birthday & More From Ent!
Rishi Kapoor's Tweet Gets Massively Trolled, Twinkle Khanna's 43rd Birthday & More From Ent!
Rishi Kapoor's Tweet Gets Massively Trolled, Twinkle Khanna's 43rd Birthday & More From Ent! 1. Swami Om Hits A New Low! After Peeing In A Mug, He Strips In Front Of The Housemates! In a quest to become the next captain of the house, Swami Omji did something that is beyond disgusting. When the fellow housemates called him out for his dirty games, he threatened them that if they don’t allow him to stay in the game, he would start stripping. While most of us thought that it was a mere threat, he proved otherwise and actually went on to take off his pants! Yes, you read that right! 2. Vinesh Phogat Reveals Her Uncle Mahavir Is 10 Times More Strict Than What Was Shown In 'Dangal'! In an interview with PTI, she said, “He was 10 times stricter, he was at a different level. At the India camp, it’s a very different kind of training than what we learnt at home. Under tauji (uncle), it was exercise and strength training in the morning and mat training during evenings,” she said. 3. Shakti Kapoor Debunks Rumours Of Dragging His Daughter Shraddha From Alleged Beau Farhan's Home! Bollywoodlife contacted Shakti Kapoor to know the truth and this was his reaction, “That’s total crap! It’s all shit. Somebody else also called me to inform me about this, but don’t believe it. It’s total, total, TOTAL crap.” 4.Rishi Kapoor's Latest Attempt To Slam Taimur Ali Khan's Haters Massively Backfires! Rishi Kapoor posted a tweet about Jonty Rhodes, who has named his daughter ‘India.’He wrote, “You caught it right! Thank you Johnty Rodes for that. Only parents have the right to name their kids whatever” Unfortunately, it didn’t go down to well with the Twitterati.  5. Everyone’s Favourite Mrs Funnybones AKA Twinkle Khanna Turns 43 Today She might have failed as an actress, but Twinkle Khanna is super successful as a writer. On the Occasion of her 43 birthday, we compiled some of her most witty quotes. Check them out right here.

1. Swami Om Hits A New Low! After Peeing In A Mug, He Strips In Front Of The Housemates!

colors

In a quest to become the next captain of the house, Swami Omji did something that is beyond disgusting. When the fellow housemates called him out for his dirty games, he threatened them that if they don’t allow him to stay in the game, he would start stripping. While most of us thought that it was a mere threat, he proved otherwise and actually went on to take off his pants! Yes, you read that right!

2. Vinesh Phogat Reveals Her Uncle Mahavir Is 10 Times More Strict Than What Was Shown In 'Dangal'!

In an interview with PTI, she said, “He was 10 times stricter, he was at a different level. At the India camp, it’s a very different kind of training than what we learnt at home. Under tauji (uncle), it was exercise and strength training in the morning and mat training during evenings,” she said.

3. Shakti Kapoor Debunks Rumours Of Dragging His Daughter Shraddha From Alleged Beau Farhan's Home!

twitter

Bollywoodlife contacted Shakti Kapoor to know the truth and this was his reaction,

“That’s total crap! It’s all shit. Somebody else also called me to inform me about this, but don’t believe it. It’s total, total, TOTAL crap.”

4.Rishi Kapoor's Latest Attempt To Slam Taimur Ali Khan's Haters Massively Backfires!

Rishi Kapoor posted a tweet about Jonty Rhodes, who has named his daughter ‘India.’He wrote, “You caught it right! Thank you Johnty Rodes for that. Only parents have the right to name their kids whatever”

Unfortunately, it didn’t go down to well with the Twitterati.

5. Everyone’s Favourite Mrs Funnybones AKA Twinkle Khanna Turns 43 Today

She might have failed as an actress, but Twinkle Khanna is super successful as a writer. On the Occasion of her 43rd birthday, we compiled some of her most witty quotes. Check them out right here.