Barack Obama orders expulsions of Russian diplomats, sanctions spies for interference in US election



Barack Obama orders expulsions of Russian diplomats, sanctions spies for interference in US election

Updated

United States President Barack Obama has announced a coordinated series of punishments against Russia over hacking allegations, expelling dozens of diplomats and naming intelligence operatives.

Key points: Russia will also be blocked from accessing two compounds in New York, Maryland

US also released a detailed report about Russia's hacking infrastructure

Moscow regretted the sanctions, considering retaliatory steps, spokesman for Vladimir Putin says

Mr Obama had promised retaliation against Russia and it came in rolling announcements, with 35 Russian diplomats given 72 hours to leave the country.

Russia will also be blocked from accessing two compounds in New York and Maryland that were used by Russian personnel for "intelligence-related purposes".

In a further executive order, Mr Obama sanctioned two Russian intelligence agencies, the GRU and the FSB, four GRU officers and three companies "that provided material support to the GRU's cyber operations".

The White House named Igor Valentinovich Korobov, the current chief of the GRU; Sergey Aleksandrovich Gizunov, deputy chief of the GRU; Igor Olegovich Kostyukov, a first deputy chief of the GRU; and Vladimir Stepanovich Alexseyev, also a first deputy chief of the GRU.

A senior US official said the move would affect the Russian embassy in Washington and consulate in San Francisco but it is understood Russia's ambassador to the United States, Sergei Kislyak, will not be one of those expelled.

In a bid to expose Moscow's cyber aggression, the US also released a detailed report about Russia's hacking infrastructure that it said was designed to help computer specialists prevent more hacking.

It is the strongest action the Obama administration has taken to date to retaliate for cyber attacks, and marks a new low in US-Russian relations, which have deteriorated over serious differences on Ukraine and Syria.

And Mr Obama said more action was coming.

"These actions follow repeated private and public warnings that we have issued to the Russian Government, and are a necessary and appropriate response to efforts to harm US interests in violation of established international norms of behaviour," Mr Obama said in a statement from Hawaii, where he is on holiday.

"These actions are not the sum total of our response to Russia's aggressive activities.

"We will continue to take a variety of actions at a time and place of our choosing, some of which will not be publicised."

There is no reason to believe Russia will cease interfering in US and other countries' elections, Obama administration officials told reporters on a conference call after the President announced the sanctions.

"We believe these steps are important because Russia is not going to stop," one official said.

President-elect Donald Trump responded to Mr Obama's announcement by stating that he would meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week "in order to be updated on the facts of this situation".

"It's time for our country to move on to bigger and better things," he said.

It was not immediately clear whether Mr Trump, who has repeatedly praised Russian President Vladimir Putin and nominated people seen as friendly toward Moscow to senior administration posts, would seek to roll back the measures once he takes office on January 20.

A senior US official said that would be inadvisable.

Sanctions signal Obama's 'unpredictable' foreign policy: Moscow

A spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin said Moscow regretted the sanctions and was considering retaliatory steps.

Dmitry Peskov said the measures signalled Mr Obama's "unpredictable" and "aggressive foreign policy".

Retaliation promised for some time This was a coordinated and sweeping set of announcements that were designed to strike back at Russia and it is retaliation that President Barack Obama has promised for some time.



Anger has been simmering within the Democratic Party as well as some Republican senators over what they see as Russia's role in interfering in the US presidential election.



Russia was accused during the election of hacking Democratic emails and drip-feeding them throughout the campaign to hurt the chances of Hillary Clinton and to boost Donald Trump.



It is a finding that is supported by some American intelligence agencies.



However, Donald Trump has been very sceptical of those findings, saying the hack could have been perpetrated by some "400 pound-guy" lying in bed.



The move has been seen in some circles as designed to ratchet up the pressure on Trump to take the allegations seriously.



-Analysis by Conor Duffy

"Such steps of the US administration that has three weeks left to work are aimed at two things: to further harm Russian-American ties, which are at a low point as it is, as well as, obviously, deal a blow on the foreign policy plans of the incoming administration of the President-elect," Mr Peskov said.

Mr Peskov reiterated that Russia was not involved in the hacking.

He said Mr Putin had yet to study what the new sanctions involved and work out what retaliatory steps could be.

Mr Obama is seeking to deter Russia and other foreign governments from leveraging cyber attacks in the future to meddle in US politics, former officials and cyber security experts said.

He has been under growing pressure from within his own administration and lawmakers of both political parties to respond more forcefully to the cyber attacks, which included leaked emails of Democratic Party operatives that became part of the media coverage in the campaign for the presidential election.

'We hope the Russian Government re-evaluates its own actions'

Access to the two compounds, which are used by Russian officials for intelligence gathering, will be denied to all Russian officials as of noon on Friday (local time), the senior US official said.

"These actions were taken to respond to Russian harassment of American diplomats and actions by the diplomats that we have assessed to be not consistent with diplomatic practice," the official said.

The State Department said it took these actions as part of a comprehensive response to Russia's interference in the US election and to a pattern of harassment of US diplomats overseas, which they said had increased over the last four years — including a significant increase in the past 12 months.

"This harassment has involved arbitrary police stops, physical assault, and the broadcast on State TV of personal details about our personnel that put them at risk," it said.

"In addition, the Russian Government has impeded our diplomatic operations by, among other actions — forcing the closure of 28 American corners which hosted cultural programs and English-language teaching; blocking our efforts to begin the construction of a new, safer facility for our Consulate General in St Petersburg; and rejecting requests to improve perimeter security at the current, outdated facility in St Petersburg."

US Secretary of State John Kerry has raised the issue with Mr Putin and his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.

"By imposing costs on the Russian diplomats in the United States, by denying them access to the two facilities, we hope the Russian Government re-evaluates its own actions, which have impeded the ability and safety of our own embassy personnel in Russia," the official said.

ABC/wires

Topics: world-politics, government-and-politics, foreign-affairs, united-states, russian-federation

First posted