Scarlett Johansson Leads Superhero-Filled List of 2016's "Top Grossing Actors"
Scarlett Johansson Leads Superhero-Filled List of 2016's "Top Grossing Actors"
Do you want to know why Oscar-winning actors like Brie Larson and critically-acclaimed directors like Ryan Coogler are heading over to the Marvel Cinematic Universe? While part of it is surely about being able to tell these long-awaited Marvel Comics stories in an era where technology has caught up with the visions of these creators, the other factor has to be the mountains of cash that these films are making. If you're skeptical, just take a look at ' 2016 "Top-Grossing Actors" list , which is not only topped by Scarlett Johansson at #1, but is practically a who's-who of 2016's biggest stars in 2016's biggest superhero films. ScarJo, who has portrayed Black Widow in a number of MCU films since 2010's , grabbed that #1 spot with a reported global box office of $1.2 billion, which takes into account the monstrous and the very non-superhero smash That nudged her past Chris Evans, aka Captain America himself, who starred in the $1.15 billion-earning ; Evans shares the #2 spot with Robert Downey, Jr., who plays Iron Man and helped fill out the other half of those posters. Not to be outdone is the DC Comics side of the superhero movie spectrum; Margot Robbie, who played the fan-favorite Harley Quinn in the box office-dominating (but ultimately underwhelming)  clocked in at #4 based on 's $1.1 billion global box office (which also factored in Will Smith clinching the #10 position). 's $873 million global box office threw Henry Cavill, Ben Affleck, and Amy Adams on the list, with and allowing Affleck and Adams (respectively) to jump ahead of Cavill. While it would've been a surprise in December of 2015, ​'s box office destruction ($783 million made worldwide) allowed him to jump ahead of Felicity Jones on this list, who rides that half-a-billy wave into the #9 spot. The only problem with this list? ScarJo is sitting pretty at #1, and has been one of the longest-running MCU figures, but there's absolutely zero talk of Black Widow getting any kind of solo film. While we wait for Marvel to fix up, check out the top 10 list down below, with more information over on ' site . 1. Scarlett Johansson 2. Chris Evans 2. Robert Downey, Jr. 4. Margot Robbie 5. Amy Adams 6. Ben Affleck 7. Henry Cavill 8. Ryan Reynolds 9. Felicity Jones 10. Will Smith

Do you want to know why Oscar-winning actors like Brie Larson and critically-acclaimed directors like Ryan Coogler are heading over to the Marvel Cinematic Universe? While part of it is surely about being able to tell these long-awaited Marvel Comics stories in an era where technology has caught up with the visions of these creators, the other factor has to be the mountains of cash that these films are making. If you're skeptical, just take a look at Forbes' 2016 "Top-Grossing Actors" list, which is not only topped by Scarlett Johansson at #1, but is practically a who's-who of 2016's biggest stars in 2016's biggest superhero films.

ScarJo, who has portrayed Black Widow in a number of MCU films since 2010's Iron Man 2, grabbed that #1 spot with a reported global box office of $1.2 billion, which takes into account the monstrous Captain America: Civil War and the very non-superhero smash Hail, Caesar! That nudged her past Chris Evans, aka Captain America himself, who starred in the $1.15 billion-earning Civil War; Evans shares the #2 spot with Robert Downey, Jr., who plays Iron Man and helped fill out the other half of those Civil War posters.

Not to be outdone is the DC Comics side of the superhero movie spectrum; Margot Robbie, who played the fan-favorite Harley Quinn in the box office-dominating (but ultimately underwhelming) Suicide Squad clocked in at #4 based on Suicide Squad's $1.1 billion global box office (which also factored in Will Smith clinching the #10 position). Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice's $873 million global box office threw Henry Cavill, Ben Affleck, and Amy Adams on the list, with The Accountant and Arrival allowing Affleck and Adams (respectively) to jump ahead of Cavill.

While it would've been a surprise in December of 2015, Deadpool​'s box office destruction ($783 million made worldwide) allowed him to jump ahead of Felicity Jones on this list, who rides that half-a-billy Rogue One wave into the #9 spot.

The only problem with this list? ScarJo is sitting pretty at #1, and has been one of the longest-running MCU figures, but there's absolutely zero talk of Black Widow getting any kind of solo film. While we wait for Marvel to fix up, check out the top 10 list down below, with more information over on Forbes' site.

1. Scarlett Johansson

2. Chris Evans

2. Robert Downey, Jr.

4. Margot Robbie

5. Amy Adams

6. Ben Affleck

7. Henry Cavill

8. Ryan Reynolds

9. Felicity Jones

10. Will Smith