Alt-right troll Milo Yiannopoulos got a big book deal and Twitter is furious
Alt-right troll Milo Yiannopoulos got a big book deal and Twitter is furious
editor and notorious troll Milo Yiannopoulos has secured a $250,000 book deal, infuriating his critics, who were pleased to see him banned from Twitter earlier in 2016. According to , Yiannopoulos landed a $250,000 advance for the book, titled , which is expected in March 2017 via Simon & Schuster imprint Threshold Editions. "The threats to free speech in the American press and on college campuses are extreme, and extremely dangerous," Yiannopoulos told via email. "That's the 'dangerous' to which the title refers." SEE ALSO: The alt-right's high school drama reveals a bigger struggle He added, "There are a lot of jokes in the book and a lot of settled scores, but it's actually quite a serious read. No one else can explain how and why so many young people fell in love with Donald Trump — and how the social justice movement stumbled." (According to exit polls , Hillary Clinton beat Trump among young people aged 18-29 by a wide margin: 55% to his 36%.) Yiannopoulus was banned from Twitter in July 2016 after an incident stemming from his takedown of the reboot on . It specifically targeted actress Leslie Jones which led to many of his followers bombarding Jones with vicious, racist harassment. The actress briefly left Twitter during that time, citing that harassment. Screenshot via Vox. Twitter had previously removed Yiannopoulos's verified checkmark in response to his behavior on the microblogging service. He was suspended from the service for a time after his remarks about Islam following the shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. He's also stirred up controversy at college campuses across the country — and in England — where his appearances have prompted protests. In response to a request for comment from Mashable, Threshold Editions sent a press release which said "will be a book on free speech." So, naturally, there are a lot of people on Twitter who are angry about Yiannopoulos' deal, with several calling for a boycott. . @simonschuster are you concerned $250k book deal you gave Milo Yiannopoulos will read as condoning the racist harassment @Lesdoggg endured? — Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) December 29, 2016 If you're thinking about boycotting @simonschuster as a whole, consider LOUDLY voicing a plan to boycott Milo's book specifically instead. — Kayla Whaley (@PunkinOnWheels) December 29, 2016 If it true that Milo has received a book deal from @simonschuster , then the only appropriate response should be a boycott. — FallenApart (@nolanwhyte) December 29, 2016 Milo getting a huge book deal basically summarizes everything wrong with American politics and culture right now. — Ken Gardner (@KenGardner11) December 29, 2016 Hi, I'm the least of your concerns but no one @simonschuster better ask me for a blurb anytime soon. https://t.co/agKR3fUrPb … — jami attenberg (@jamiattenberg) December 29, 2016 If you approved a $250K book deal for the troll promoting racist, sexist views so extreme he got thrown off this platform - we need to talk. — Carolyn Kellogg (@paperhaus) December 29, 2016 I hope authors published by Simon and Schuster loudly condemn the decision to give hate-monger Milo Yiannopoulos a $250K book deal. Amazing. — Wajahat Ali (@WajahatAli) December 29, 2016 . @simonschuster the Milo book deal is unacceptable. I never looked at presses when picking pleasure reads, but I will now. — Adam McMahon (@adammc123) December 29, 2016 Whew. When I saw that Milo had a book deal I whispered, please don't let it be my publisher. — roxane gay (@rgay) December 29, 2016 I am rethinking my relationship with @simonschuster  #Milo — Karen Hunter (@karenhunter) December 29, 2016 Simon & Schuster issued a statement on the deal Friday. Statement regarding recent acquisition by @threshold_books , a division of @simonschuster  pic.twitter.com/Rq1aoNp3d2 — Simon & Schuster (@simonschuster) December 31, 2016 BONUS: Disney is building an 'Avatar' theme park and it looks unreal

Breitbart editor and notorious troll Milo Yiannopoulos has secured a $250,000 book deal, infuriating his critics, who were pleased to see him banned from Twitter earlier in 2016.

According to The Hollywood Reporter, Yiannopoulos landed a $250,000 advance for the book, titled Dangerous, which is expected in March 2017 via Simon & Schuster imprint Threshold Editions.

"The threats to free speech in the American press and on college campuses are extreme, and extremely dangerous," Yiannopoulos told Mashable via email. "That's the 'dangerous' to which the title refers."

He added, "There are a lot of jokes in the book and a lot of settled scores, but it's actually quite a serious read. No one else can explain how and why so many young people fell in love with Donald Trump — and how the social justice movement stumbled."

(According to exit polls, Hillary Clinton beat Trump among young people aged 18-29 by a wide margin: 55% to his 36%.)

Yiannopoulus was banned from Twitter in July 2016 after an incident stemming from his takedown of the Ghostbusters reboot on Breitbart. It specifically targeted actress Leslie Jones which led to many of his followers bombarding Jones with vicious, racist harassment. The actress briefly left Twitter during that time, citing that harassment.

Screenshot via Vox.

Twitter had previously removed Yiannopoulos's verified checkmark in response to his behavior on the microblogging service. He was suspended from the service for a time after his remarks about Islam following the shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. He's also stirred up controversy at college campuses across the country — and in England — where his appearances have prompted protests.

In response to a request for comment from Mashable, Threshold Editions sent a press release which said Dangerous "will be a book on free speech."

So, naturally, there are a lot of people on Twitter who are angry about Yiannopoulos' deal, with several calling for a boycott.

.@simonschuster are you concerned $250k book deal you gave Milo Yiannopoulos will read as condoning the racist harassment @Lesdoggg endured? — Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) December 29, 2016

If you're thinking about boycotting @simonschuster as a whole, consider LOUDLY voicing a plan to boycott Milo's book specifically instead. — Kayla Whaley (@PunkinOnWheels) December 29, 2016

If it true that Milo has received a book deal from @simonschuster, then the only appropriate response should be a boycott. — FallenApart (@nolanwhyte) December 29, 2016

Milo getting a huge book deal basically summarizes everything wrong with American politics and culture right now. — Ken Gardner (@KenGardner11) December 29, 2016

Hi, I'm the least of your concerns but no one @simonschuster better ask me for a blurb anytime soon. https://t.co/agKR3fUrPb … — jami attenberg (@jamiattenberg) December 29, 2016

If you approved a $250K book deal for the troll promoting racist, sexist views so extreme he got thrown off this platform - we need to talk. — Carolyn Kellogg (@paperhaus) December 29, 2016

I hope authors published by Simon and Schuster loudly condemn the decision to give hate-monger Milo Yiannopoulos a $250K book deal. Amazing. — Wajahat Ali (@WajahatAli) December 29, 2016

.@simonschuster the Milo book deal is unacceptable. I never looked at presses when picking pleasure reads, but I will now. — Adam McMahon (@adammc123) December 29, 2016

Whew. When I saw that Milo had a book deal I whispered, please don't let it be my publisher. — roxane gay (@rgay) December 29, 2016

I am rethinking my relationship with @simonschuster #Milo — Karen Hunter (@karenhunter) December 29, 2016

UPDATE Dec. 30, 4:23 PM PT: Simon & Schuster issued a statement on the deal Friday.