Trump writing own 'short' inaugural speech
Trump writing own 'short' inaugural speech
Trump writing own 'short' inaugural speech Updated 2018 GMT (0418 HKT) December 29, 2016 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights A historian who met with Donald Trump said the President-elect wants to pen his speech himself "He told me he's excited to sleep in the Lincoln Bedroom on his first night," Douglas Brinkley said President-elect Donald Trump is turning his attention Thursday to crafting a "short" but impactful inaugural address designed not to overly burden the thousands of supporters expected to attend next month's ceremony.

Story highlights A historian who met with Donald Trump said the President-elect wants to pen his speech himself

"He told me he's excited to sleep in the Lincoln Bedroom on his first night," Douglas Brinkley said

West Palm Beach, Florida (CNN) President-elect Donald Trump is turning his attention Thursday to crafting a "short" but impactful inaugural address designed not to overly burden the thousands of supporters expected to attend next month's ceremony.

"He wants to write the inaugural himself," said presidential historian Douglas Brinkley, who met with Trump Wednesday to discuss, among other things, the upcoming speech on January 20th.

Trump was expected to spend at least part of his day Thursday at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, working on the speech, according to officials.

"He doesn't want it to be long," Brinkley said on CNN. "He would like it to be a shorter one. He doesn't want people standing out in the cold."

Trump, who initially chafed at the rigid formality of delivering speeches from a Teleprompter, is mindful of the inaugural's role in setting the tone for his upcoming administration, officials say. Until now, his highest-profile speech came at this summer's Republican National Convention. That address was darker in tone, warning of a deteriorating society and touting his ability to fix the country's problems.

Read More