Modi's New Year Plans With All Of India + 5 More Stories You Need To Read Today
Modi's New Year Plans With All Of India + 5 More Stories You Need To Read Today
Modi's New Year Plans With All Of India + 5 More Stories You Need To Read Today Is PM Narendra Modi planning to be the headliner for every party? After being the surprise opening act for Coldplay's India debut , now, Modi will reportedly address the nation on New Year's Eve. People will be desperate to rush home to their respective evening plans to make the most of what has been an intense year, so it doesn't have the same feel as the midnight 'Tryst with Destiny' speech given by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. 1. There Might Be No Limit To How Much Cash You Can Withdraw From January 1 The cap on cash withdrawal may not be necessary from 1 January, as 250-300 million currency notes were being printed on a daily basis, Minister of State for Finance Santosh Gangwar has said. "I have been told that 25-30 crore notes are being printed on a daily basis. Continuing with the withdrawal cap is not necessary from 1 January," Gangwar told CNBC TV18 in an interview on Thursday. "Inconvenience of limited withdrawal will lessen after 30 December. Improvements can be seen in the transaction process in the last few days," he added. 2. A Made In India iPhone Could Be Real Soon, But Apple Wants Our Govt To Accept Some Demands First Apple wants the government to relax labelling rules so that it doesn't have to print product-related information directly onto devices to avoid cluttering up their minimalist design. That's one of the concessions Apple has sought after expressing its intention to start manufacturing in India, an official said. The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) forwarded the iPhone maker’s request to the Department of Revenue and Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeITY) in November for consideration, said another official. 3. In A First, New York's Sikh Police Officers Can Now Wear Turbans And Grow Beards In one amazing move, the New York Police Department has allowed its Sikh officers to wear a turban and grow a beard. All Sikh officers can now wear a blue-coloured turban with NYPD insignia attached to it. Under the new rules, religious members of the force are also permitted to grow beards up to half-an-inch long. Thank you @NYPDONeill for allowing Sikh Officers to wear a turban in the @NYPDnews . This is a proud moment for Sikh Community. pic.twitter.com/ArKkwVWj8G Until now, officers used to wear turbans under their hats and beards weren't permitted. 4. Freedom 251 Or Fail 420? Ringing Bells Owe Dealers Lakhs, While Founder-MD And His Wife Quit Directorship It seems that most Indians who paid the Rs 250 will never experience the joy of features that belong to 2011 - 1 GB RAM, a tiny 4 inch screen 3.2 MP camera. Mohit Goel, the managing director of the Noida-based Ringing Bells, has reportedly quit, and so has his wife Dharna Goel, the company's director. Their office in Noida has been shut for 2 weeks now, and phone dealers don't know how to respond to customers who paid the Rs. 250 fee.

Is PM Narendra Modi planning to be the headliner for every party? After being the surprise opening act for Coldplay's India debut, now, Modi will reportedly address the nation on New Year's Eve. People will be desperate to rush home to their respective evening plans to make the most of what has been an intense year, so it doesn't have the same feel as the midnight 'Tryst with Destiny' speech given by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru.

1. There Might Be No Limit To How Much Cash You Can Withdraw From January 1

BCCL

The cap on cash withdrawal may not be necessary from 1 January, as 250-300 million currency notes were being printed on a daily basis, Minister of State for Finance Santosh Gangwar has said.

"I have been told that 25-30 crore notes are being printed on a daily basis. Continuing with the withdrawal cap is not necessary from 1 January," Gangwar told CNBC TV18 in an interview on Thursday. "Inconvenience of limited withdrawal will lessen after 30 December. Improvements can be seen in the transaction process in the last few days," he added.

2. A Made In India iPhone Could Be Real Soon, But Apple Wants Our Govt To Accept Some Demands First

AFP

Apple wants the government to relax labelling rules so that it doesn't have to print product-related information directly onto devices to avoid cluttering up their minimalist design. That's one of the concessions Apple has sought after expressing its intention to start manufacturing in India, an official said.

The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) forwarded the iPhone maker’s request to the Department of Revenue and Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeITY) in November for consideration, said another official.

3. In A First, New York's Sikh Police Officers Can Now Wear Turbans And Grow Beards

In one amazing move, the New York Police Department has allowed its Sikh officers to wear a turban and grow a beard.

All Sikh officers can now wear a blue-coloured turban with NYPD insignia attached to it.

Under the new rules, religious members of the force are also permitted to grow beards up to half-an-inch long.

Thank you @NYPDONeill for allowing Sikh Officers to wear a turban in the @NYPDnews. This is a proud moment for Sikh Community. pic.twitter.com/ArKkwVWj8G — Sikh Officers Assoc. (@SikhOfficers) December 28, 2016

Until now, officers used to wear turbans under their hats and beards weren't permitted.

4. Freedom 251 Or Fail 420? Ringing Bells Owe Dealers Lakhs, While Founder-MD And His Wife Quit Directorship

Reuters

It seems that most Indians who paid the Rs 250 will never experience the joy of features that belong to 2011 - 1 GB RAM, a tiny 4 inch screen 3.2 MP camera. Mohit Goel, the managing director of the Noida-based Ringing Bells, has reportedly quit, and so has his wife Dharna Goel, the company's director. Their office in Noida has been shut for 2 weeks now, and phone dealers don't know how to respond to customers who paid the Rs. 250 fee.

5. Bombay High Court Says It Is Worried About Soaring Cases Of Girls Filing Rape Cases After Breakups

riseforindia.com

In a rare acknowledgement, the Bombay High Court has expressed concern over the rising number of cases where rape charges have been invoked by a girl against her boyfriend following a breakup. Hearing a plea by a 20-year-old woman seeking the quashing of an FIR she had lodged against her ex, a division bench of Justices Vidyasagar Kanade Nutan Sardessai said that in many such cases the accused men have to languish in jail for months or years.