California scientists reveal 133 new species of animals and plants found in 2016
Scientists reveal 133 new species of animals discovered in 2016


More than a hundred animals and plants - including an armoured lizard, a blood sucking ant and a colourful sea slug - are among the newly discovered species added to Earth's tree of life.

From a fleet of shining beetles to sharks and an alarming bird virus, they span five continents and three oceans.

The 133 new species were discovered by researchers venturing into vast deserts, to the depths of the oceans, scouring thick rainforests and towering mountain ranges.

Several of this year's finds belong to a group of 'Dracula ants' that build tiny, few-chambered colonies beneath the soil. In a bizarre means of distributing nutrients throughout the colony, ants from this group are known to wound their colonies' larvae before drinking their blood

THE NEW SPECIES More than a hundred animals and plants - including an armoured lizard, a blood sucking ant and a colourful sea slug - are among the newly discovered species added to Earth's tree of life. From a fleet of shining beetles to sharks and an alarming bird virus, they span five continents and three oceans. The 133 new species were discovered by researchers venturing into vast deserts, to the depths of the oceans, scouring thick rainforests and towering mountain ranges.

Dr Shannon Bennett, of the California Academy of Sciences, said: 'Biodiversity scientists estimate we have discovered less than 10 per cent of the species on our planet.

'Academy scientists tirelessly explore the lesser-known regions of Earth - not only to discover new species, but also to uncover the importance of these species to the health of our natural systems.

'Each of these species, known and as-yet-unknown is a wonder unto itself, but may also hold the key to ground-breaking innovations in science, technology, or society.

'Species live together in rich networks that thrive on complexity whether we can see it or not. Even the tiniest organism can be beautiful and important.'

The flashy 'twilight zone' groppo is the deepest fish discovered by human hands

Pink-and-yellow, Grammatonotus brianne was captured on film at 487 feet off the Philippines

This year, scientists uncovered a fascinating new clue in the global mystery surrounding wild birds with grossly deformed beaks. A virus, named Poecivirus after the black-capped chickadee is to blame

A new species of flasherwrasse was discovered in Indonesia. Researchers have named the new species 'Paracheilinus paineorum'

AKD, a disorder affecting the beak, was first documented in a black-capped chickadee in Kodiak, Alaska

Dr Luiz Rocha said: 'This groppo is the most beautiful fish I've ever seen. But beyond its looks, it's a reminder that we know very little about the mysterious half-lit reefs we call the twilight zone.'

Stigmatomma - 'Dracula ants' that build tiny colonies beneath the Madagascan soil are known to wound larvae before drinking their blood.

An elongated jaw with two large pincers also allows the ants to grasp prey mostly comprised of centipedes, but also beetle larvae.

Dr Flavia Esteves said: 'Because these ants are so rarely collected finding them is like uncovering buried treasure.

'Most Stigmatomma species spend the entirety of their lives beneath the soil or inside rotten logs.'

A Pacific skate fish (pictured) was discovered in the Pacific and a new rainforest beetle in Madagascar - a hugely diverse group of insects, both with wings and without, that feast on other insects

An armoured lizard of Angola was discovered this year. So far, little is known about armoured lizards, but the researchers are hopeful that the new species will help answer some questions

The new species of armoured lizard is endemic to Angola, and has a distinctive brown and yellow skin pattern

A total of 24 new fish species were discovered this year, including camouflaging gobies (pictured) and lanternsharks of the Indian Ocean

A new species of bee-fly (Bombyliidae) from Madagascar may cause passers-by to look twice.

Dr Michelle Trautwein said: 'Don't be deceived by stripes or fuzzy adornments.'

Named Thevenetimyia spinosavus which translates to 'thorny grandfather', this grey-haired bee fly was discovered by Natalia Maass, who worked with Trautwein for two summers as an undergraduate intern.

After more than a dozen combined expeditions to the damp rainforests of Madagascar and cloud-kissed mountains of southwestern China, Dr Dave Kavanaug is sharing 36 exciting new discoveries.

Ground beetles are a wildly diverse group of winged and wingless predators that feast on other insects, and some are known to survive in extreme environments around the world.

An elongated jaw with two large pincers allows the Dracula ants to grasp prey mostly comprised of centipedes, but also beetle larvae

Alongside the new species of animal, researchers discovered a new bird virus linked to beak-bending disorder, called AKD. Pictured is a Northwestern crown with mild AKD

Researchers spotted the neon groppo (later named G. brianne) during a murky, cold dive in the Philippine Verde Island Passage, a region known as the 'center of the center' of Earth's marine biodiversity

Twenty-six of Kavanaugh's recent species discoveries hail from Madagascar's Ranomafana National Park-an area of lush tropical rainforest stretching nearly 160 square miles across the southwestern portion of the island.

During one 5-week expedition, Kavanaugh's daughter Kathryn (for whom he later named a beetle Chlaenius kathrynae) assisted him in the field by searching for species of ground beetles in the leaf litter.

Several additional new species (including three new genera) are described from the Gaoligong Mountains of China's Yunnan Province, a region where extreme physical geography has caused a jaw-dropping array of species to evolve over millennia.

Amid outcroppings of granite in the arid, sloping lowlands of southern Angola, a newly discovered species of lizard wedges itself into particularly tight crevices, head-first.

Four new species of spider have been discovered this year, including the ground spider (pictured) from Brazil Apopyllus centralis

The flowering shrub Symplocos nigridentata is one of six new plants discovered. Symplocos is a genus of flowering plants, containing about 250 species native to Asia, Australia and the Americas

Academy scientists are currently diving to twilight zone reefs around the world. In these narrow bands of deep reefs, animals live in partial darkness, well beyond recreational diving limits yet above the deep trenches patrolled by submarines

A new species of nudibranch, or sea-slug, was found in the shallow waters of California, along with six others

A new genus and species of deepwater worm eel has been named Chauligenion camelopardalis

Only threatening spines are left exposed along its body and tail to deter approaching predators.

Dr Edward Stanley said scans revealed that the tiny, bony spikes of Cordylus namakuiyus are actually embedded in the lizard's skin rather than attached to the skeleton itself.

'CT technology allowed us to visualise and measure the armoring structure in this new lizard species,' he said.

New invertebrate species highlights include five fossil species of ancient urchins and one fossil sand dollar described by invertebrate zoology curator Dr Rich Mooi, and seven colourful new sea slugs - or nudibranchs.

Reaching extreme depths in twilight zones requires divers to push the boundaries of both technology and the human body, but can reveal a range of new species

A range of new insects have been discovered this year, including a ground beetle in Madagascar (right) and and african bee fly (left)

New invertebrate species highlights include five fossil species of ancient urchins and one fossil sand dollar (pictured) described by invertebrate zoology curator Dr Rich Mooi

Brian Greene spotted the neon groppo (later named G. brianne for Greene’s wife) during a murky, cold dive in the Philippine Verde Island Passage

These are described from the world's shallow reefs-including one from California-by longtime invertebrate zoology curator Dr. Terry Gosliner.

A new Pacific skate fish was discovered in the Pacific and a new rainforest beetle in Madagascar - a hugely diverse group of insects, both with wings and without, that feast on other insects.

The flowering shrub Symplocos nigridentata is one of six new plants discovered. Symplocos is a genus of flowering plants, containing about 250 species native to Asia, Australia and the Americas.

Even a new virus was identified, which causes deformed beaks in birds. It belongs to the picornavirus family which includes human infections like polio, hepatitis A, and the common cold.

Stigmatomma 'Dracula ants' that build tiny colonies beneath the Madagascan soil are known to wound larvae before drinking their blood

New species of fish discovered in the twilight zone are collected and stored in a decompression chamber

A new species of lantern shark was discovered by divers in the southwestern Indian Ocean

Along with new animals, several new plant species have been discovered this year, including a new genus and species of flowering plant from the Brazilian Amazon, Brasilianthus carajensis

Brian Fisher, who goes by the name 'Ant-Man' is pictured processing new specimens in Madagascar

The 133 new species were discovered by researchers venturing into vast deserts, to the depths of the oceans, scouring thick rainforests and towering mountain ranges

Some of the new species were discovered in the world's shallow reefs-including one from California-by longtime invertebrate zoology curator Dr. Terry Gosliner