The Grand Tour's Christmas special is eye-wateringly lavish – The Beach (Buggy) Boys Part 1 review
The Grand Tour's Christmas special is eye-wateringly lavish – The Beach (Buggy) Boys Part 1 review
eck the halls, ring the bells, prepare the gratuitous insults… It was the Grand Tour Christmas special and what could be more festive than a Mad Max-style dash across Namibia in tricked-out beach buggies? In an episode that summoned the ghost of Top Gear extravaganzas from Christmases past, Clarkson and his merry helpers tootled up and down sand dunes with the abandon of middle-aged executives hitting the office party dance-floor. Along the way, they reminded us just how bottomless Amazon's coffers truly were. Here the cash wasn't so much flashed as tossed upon a great blinding bonfire. The resulting 45 minutes of derring-do was both suspiciously familiar – they've now completely dropped the pretence that this is anything other than Top Gear with a wonky new name – and eye-wateringly lavish. Graceful panning shots from high above were worthy of a superior blockbuster / David Attenborough documentary soundtracked by Sigur Rós, while the aching desert landscapes were a treat for senses dulled by days of flagrant brandy butter consumption. All that was missing was Clarkson in a Father Christmas outfit or Richard Hammond dressed as an elf, though with part two to follow 24 hours later, surely it's too soon to rule anything out. Here is the rest of what we learned. The Christmas spirit has not taken the extended to Clarkson's banter eason one of the Grand Tour has clocked up controversies at a cheerful clip. They've pretend-shot an actor dressed as the Queen and cracked wised about gypsies while just last week Hammond treated us to a bizarre/offensive/bizarre rant about ice cream's unsuitability as a treat for straight adult males (a broadside so bonkers even Clarkson appeared baffled as to where Herr Hamster was going). Scarcely seven days later, Jeremy bid us a jolly seasonal welcome with a monologue in which he described the venerable Volkswagen Beetle as beloved only by Nazis and hippies. "Bah humbug" had screeched into our living rooms at full throttle. The entire episode was a gimmick but a decent one our heart sank upon hearing the two-part special (with the second half going live on Amazon 24 hours later) was to be a romp across southern Africa. The Grand Tour's first "epic" excursion had been an execrable Rambo remake in Jordan, with Clarkson and chums huffing about like team leaders on the paintball weekend from hell. Would we be treated for further late-middle age wish fulfilment? In Part 1 of #TheGrandTour Namibia special, @MrJamesMay gets soaked with water. pic.twitter.com/uDsaU1Qk9a appily, the Beach (Buggy) Boys was a stand-up lark that harked back to the team's classic Top Gear outings ( minus the pitch-fork wielding Patagonians from their 2014 Argentina adventure ). Absent were the usual studio audience gathered in an outsized military tent and regular sections such as Conversation Street and Celebrity Braincrash. You hardly noticed. The studio chatter has always been painfully staged while the omission of the execrable Celebrity Braincrash was the gift that kept giving. We finally saw those giant beached ships from the trailer aws had clacked earthward when the Grand Tour's epic first trailer "dropped" in October. Pride of place in the stunning promo was a shot of rotting ships emerging from the desert mist like the corpses of clock-work dinosaurs. In the Beach (Buggy) Boys we at last learned the provenance of those images as Clarkson, Hammond and May's 1,000 mile race across Namibia skirted the very same hulks. How the boats came to be lying there was not explained but no matter– the gorgeously creepy footage was reward enough. As an action movie starring three wrinkly blokes with bad posture, this was decent stuff ew enterprises in popular entertainment are more contrived than an overseas trip starring Messrs Clarkson, Hammond and May. Nonetheless, there was a sense of genuine jeopardy as they blundered through the freezing desert at night, relying on Clarkson's star-navigation skills to find civilisation. It was an impressive feat of conjuring considering a comfy tent no doubt waited just out of camera shot. In Part 1 of #TheGrandTour Namibia special, @MrJamesMay gets covered with sand. pic.twitter.com/EM7Pgj2uz3 You were watching a re-gifted version of the Top Gear Christmas special ach Christmas, Team Top Gear would head somewhere exotic and lots of blokey derring-do would ensue. In their new television show – which, and it's important we keep reminding ourselves of this, is not called actually called Top Gear – Clarkson and company headed somewhere exotic for Christmas and lots of of blokey derring-do ensued. The wrapping paper was different - but Jezza's Christmas treat was as familiar as those novelty socks your mother-in-law always gets you. The production values were even more off the scale than usual Amazon is pouring cash into the Grand Tour the way some of us have been pouring Quality Street down our throats all week and here you could see the money at work. Top Gear had its moments of grandeur but on the Beach (Buggy) Boys the cinematography was David Lean on steroids. Even with the sound down, those endless scenes of the trio cresting sand dune would have been stunning (indeed there's an argument they might have been enhanced without Clarkson's ramblings to ruin the effect). Was a two-part episode justified? n a departure from the binge-watch model beloved by streaming services, the Christmas special was divided into instalments to be released over consecutive nights. Yet though Namibia wowed us with its scenery the team didn't get up to much beyond zooming up and down dunes. Commercial considerations aside, the logic of a two-hander felt threadbare. By the end of part deux, will the dispatch feel like a guest who's ignored all the hints and outstayed their welcome? You can see why they chose Namibia In their Top Gear days, the crew had a habit of antagonising locals – see the palaver in Patagonia, "slope-gate" in Burma etc. As portrayed on the Grand Tour Namibia is one vast, unpopulated desert overlooking the sea. Epic, treacherous – and without any angry residents waiting to take offence.

Deck the halls, ring the bells, prepare the gratuitous insults… It was the Grand Tour Christmas special and what could be more festive than a Mad Max-style dash across Namibia in tricked-out beach buggies?

In an episode that summoned the ghost of Top Gear extravaganzas from Christmases past, Clarkson and his merry helpers tootled up and down sand dunes with the abandon of middle-aged executives hitting the office party dance-floor. Along the way, they reminded us just how bottomless Amazon's coffers truly were. Here the cash wasn't so much flashed as tossed upon a great blinding bonfire.

The resulting 45 minutes of derring-do was both suspiciously familiar – they've now completely dropped the pretence that this is anything other than Top Gear with a wonky new name – and eye-wateringly lavish. Graceful panning shots from high above were worthy of a superior blockbuster / David Attenborough documentary soundtracked by Sigur Rós, while the aching desert landscapes were a treat for senses dulled by days of flagrant brandy butter consumption.

All that was missing was Clarkson in a Father Christmas outfit or Richard Hammond dressed as an elf, though with part two to follow 24 hours later, surely it's too soon to rule anything out. Here is the rest of what we learned.