This photo of a group of women sitting on a couch is really freaking people out
This photo of a group of women sitting on a couch is really freaking people out
This is one of those times. Reddit user jr0d7771 submitted what seems to be, at first, an innocuous photograph featuring six young women sitting on a sofa.  The post has the following, tantalising instruction.  Reddit users had a number of theories... Canadian_Ireland: The second girls legs are behind first girls legs. I think. kacie1989: I actually think the first girl has get legs draped OVER the second girl's legs. ArchDucky: Nope her left leg is behind #2. The other leg is under #4's leg. You can see that #4 has two different shoes on. One user claimed she was "womanspreading": ElMongosto: Left to right, #1, #2, #3, #4 Number 1 has her legs crossed, no tear in the knee. Number 2 has only one leg visible, the tear is in her knee. Those legs are blending together. (Follow that tear down, there's a split where there's a sock on the right and not on the left. Number 2 has a tear in her knee and a visible white sock) Numbers 2 and 3 are leaning waaay over. It's easier to visualize if you picture #3 with her hand on the seat behind #4's back to hold herself up. Others think that the photo's been doctored. We're inclined to go with Reddit user theory: She packed them away.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Every now and again, the internet spits out a particularly mind-boggling photo that makes us turn our heads at an odd angle and stare at our computer screens.

This is one of those times.

Reddit user jr0d7771 submitted what seems to be, at first, an innocuous photograph featuring six young women sitting on a sofa.

Picture: Reddit

The post has the following, tantalising instruction.

Find the middle one’s legs.

Picture: Reddit

Reddit users had a number of theories...

Canadian_Ireland:

The second girls legs are behind first girls legs. I think.

kacie1989:

I actually think the first girl has get legs draped OVER the second girl's legs.

ArchDucky:

Nope her left leg is behind #2. The other leg is under #4's leg. You can see that #4 has two different shoes on.

One user claimed she was "womanspreading":

ElMongosto:

Left to right, #1, #2, #3, #4 Number 1 has her legs crossed, no tear in the knee. Number 2 has only one leg visible, the tear is in her knee. Those legs are blending together. (Follow that tear down, there's a split where there's a sock on the right and not on the left. Number 2 has a tear in her knee and a visible white sock) Numbers 2 and 3 are leaning waaay over. It's easier to visualize if you picture #3 with her hand on the seat behind #4's back to hold herself up.

Others think that the photo's been doctored.

We're inclined to go with Reddit user differt's theory:

She packed them away.

More: Can you spot the problem with this photo?

More: Class celebrates end of year with naked photo (including their teacher)