Amazon Alexa helpfully tries to give porn to a child
Amazon Alexa helpfully tries to give porn to a child
We're not exactly sure what this child is asking for when he says, "Alexa, play 'Digger digger,'" but we're almost positive it's not porn. Regardless, Amazon's personal assistant reached back through her algorithmic server banks, scanned the child's budding language and, through the miracle of technology, determines that this child really wants to hear some porn. It only takes a beat or two before the filming parents realize what is happening. Unfortunately, their cries of protest can do nothing to stop the march of innovation and Alexa will be heard. According to an Amazon PR person who reached out to Alexa will have a tougher time giving up these adult goods. This issue has been fixed, and we are working to build additional restrictions to prevent this from happening in the future," the spokesperson said. "We have also contacted the customer to apologize." Watch Lady Gaga's triumphant Super Bowl halftime show in full NASA are real winners of the Super Bowl with longest Hail Mary pass ever This heartbreaking video tells the story of two child refugees, 80 years apart Have a damn good cup of coffee with this 'Twin Peaks' supercut

We're not exactly sure what this child is asking for when he says, "Alexa, play 'Digger digger,'" but we're almost positive it's not porn.

Regardless, Amazon's personal assistant reached back through her algorithmic server banks, scanned the child's budding language and, through the miracle of technology, determines that this child really wants to hear some porn.

It only takes a beat or two before the filming parents realize what is happening. Unfortunately, their cries of protest can do nothing to stop the march of innovation and Alexa will be heard.

UPDATE: Dec. 30, 2016, 2:38 p.m. EST

According to an Amazon PR person who reached out to Mashable, Alexa will have a tougher time giving up these adult goods.

"This issue has been fixed, and we are working to build additional restrictions to prevent this from happening in the future," the spokesperson said. "We have also contacted the customer to apologize."