What Happened When Venezuela Outlawed Its Own Currency
What Happened When Venezuela Outlawed Its Own Currency
The deadline passed without the promised new larger denominations having arrived, officially turning all 100-bolívar bills — over three-quarters of all cash in circulation — into worthless pieces of paper, and causing looting and disorder to ripple through the country’s streets. After days of economic chaos, with some stores refusing to accept the bills and long lines at banks ending in frustration with A.T.M.s dispensing the same 100-bolívar denomination that had been deposited, President Nicolás Maduro reversed course, announcing that the note would continue to be honored until January. How did Venezuela get here? Venezuela has struggled with inflation before. The Socialist-inspired government of President Hugo Chávez instituted strict currency controls in 2003, creating an official organization that decides who is allowed to exchange bolívars for dollars. The current incarnation of the bolívar is also known as the “bolívar fuerte,” a redenomination that replaced the previous bolívars at a rate of one to 1,000 in 2007. With an economy largely dependent on oil exports, Venezuela has been hit particularly hard by the global oil price plunge of the past two years. In a country where roughly a third of the population lacks a bank account, cash transactions are a critical part of the economy — especially for the poor. With the country’s largest banknote worth only roughly 3 cents outside of official government stores, surreal scenes arise like delicatessens weighing bills on their scales instead of bothering to count them. It is illegal to publish the free-market value of the bolívar in Venezuela, so people rely on an online exchange rate, run by an ex-colonel turned hardware salesman in Alabama , that tracks black market trading in the Colombian border city of Cúcuta. Value of a 100-bolívar bill A recent paper by Steve H. Hanke and Charles Bushnell of Johns Hopkins adds Venezuela to the list of countries that have experienced hyperinflation — qualifying in December by having maintained a monthly inflation rate exceeding 50 percent for 30 days. Why withdraw the 100-bolívar bill? During periods of high inflation, it is common for governments to allow old bills to circulate for a time alongside freshly printed larger denominations, to ease the economic disruptions of switching currency. Not so in Venezuela. The powerful interior and justice minister, Néstor Reverol, made an appearance on state television to explain the reasoning for the government’s decision to withdraw the 100-bolívar note so rapidly. Mr. Reverol is currently under federal indictment in the United States on cocaine trafficking charges. With a PowerPoint presentation as a visual aid, he justified the move by laying out a wild theory that the United States Treasury Department had contracted with nongovernmental organizations to remove vast quantities of the rapidly depreciating 100-bolívar bill from Venezuela to be stored in secure locations in several European countries. He claimed that the United States government was attempting to use a “financial coup” to “strangle our country.” Food prices and basic goods Although prices are rising, food can be cheap at the subsidized government price, if you can find it. Parents line up before dawn to wait for hours for the chance to buy flour, milk and baby formula for their family at official prices. But the lines have also become easy targets for robberies, forcing some to weigh hunger against the threat of violence. One concrete illustration of this is in the price of chicken, an important source of protein in Venezuela. The gap between the wholesale open market price and the official government price for chicken has ranged from 100 to 2,600 bolívars, spiking over the past few weeks. And retail prices would be even higher. Wholesale price of chicken in Venezuela Skyrocketing prices are not limited to chicken. The basic index is a statistical measure that estimates the cost of providing staple foods and household goods for a family of four for a month. Venezuela’s basic index now stands at 624,544 bolívars, an amount that a poor family would have to earn 23 times the minimum wage to purchase. In Caracas, the government has fought popular dissatisfaction with high prices during the holiday season by dispatching government inspectors and soldiers to compel hundreds of retail stores to hold Christmas sales with all merchandise at a 30 percent discount. Thirty percent, not coincidentally, is the maximum profit margin a privately owned store is allowed to make under a law enacted in 2014. In December, the government also conducted Operation Baby Jesus, arresting two executives at a major Venezuelan toy distributor and seizing 3.8 million toys to be distributed to children. “Across Venezuela, Operation Baby Jesus is a message to the right-wing: ‘You couldn’t steal Christmas from us!’” a state-run television channel posted on Twitter on Christmas Day. There is one basic commodity that is still extremely affordable in Venezuela at any time of year: gas. At a little over a penny for 10 gallons of 91 octane gasoline, filling up the tank is cheaper than anywhere else in the world. Smuggling gas out of the country has become a lifeline for some Venezuelans struggling to hold on. The murder capital of the world As inflation gobbles up the salaries of the working and middle classes, workers are left with paychecks that can’t come close to feeding their families and are forced into desperate measures to make ends meet . For some, that means turning to crime to survive. Cheap fuel, the wide availability of illegal weapons, gang control of prisons and a poorly trained and poorly paid police force are some of the noneconomic factors contributing to rising crime rates . And as the levels of drug dealing, burglary, home invasion, kidnapping and armed robbery have increased, homicides have as well. According to this year’s report by a Mexican nonprofit group that tracks homicide rates in cities worldwide, Caracas has surpassed San Pedro Sula in Honduras as the city with the highest murder rate in the world. Counted together, the cities of Venezuela experience a higher average murder rate than in any other country. Homicides per 100,000 people What comes next? On Thursday, President Maduro appeared again on state television to announce a second extension of the life of the 100-bolívar bill for an additional 18 days, until Jan. 20. With luck, the new bills, ranging in value from 500 to 20,000 bolívars, will have been made widely available before then. But printing larger denominations doesn’t help reverse an episode of hyperinflation. And Venezuela’s on a ticking clock. Because the rapidly devaluing bolívar is not widely accepted outside the country’s borders, in order to continue to borrow the money required to keep the nationalized oil industry pumping the government must pay its foreign debts with dollars. According to data from the Central Bank of Venezuela , the government held $43 billion in foreign reserves at the beginning of 2009. Only $11 billion is left today. Additional reporting by Ana Vanessa Herrero. Top photo by Federico Parra/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images. Advertisement

The deadline passed without the promised new larger denominations having arrived, officially turning all 100-bolívar bills — over three-quarters of all cash in circulation — into worthless pieces of paper, and causing looting and disorder to ripple through the country’s streets. After days of economic chaos, with some stores refusing to accept the bills and long lines at banks ending in frustration with A.T.M.s dispensing the same 100-bolívar denomination that had been deposited, President Nicolás Maduro reversed course, announcing that the note would continue to be honored until January.

A National Guard officer standing outside a grocery store looted by neighbors the night before in Ciudad Bolívar, Venezuela. Alejandro Cegarra/Associated Press

How did Venezuela get here?

Venezuela has struggled with inflation before. The Socialist-inspired government of President Hugo Chávez instituted strict currency controls in 2003, creating an official organization that decides who is allowed to exchange bolívars for dollars. The current incarnation of the bolívar is also known as the “bolívar fuerte,” a redenomination that replaced the previous bolívars at a rate of one to 1,000 in 2007. With an economy largely dependent on oil exports, Venezuela has been hit particularly hard by the global oil price plunge of the past two years.

In a country where roughly a third of the population lacks a bank account, cash transactions are a critical part of the economy — especially for the poor. With the country’s largest banknote worth only roughly 3 cents outside of official government stores, surreal scenes arise like delicatessens weighing bills on their scales instead of bothering to count them.

It is illegal to publish the free-market value of the bolívar in Venezuela, so people rely on an online exchange rate, run by an ex-colonel turned hardware salesman in Alabama, that tracks black market trading in the Colombian border city of Cúcuta.

Value of a 100-bolívar bill $10.00 1.00 0.10 $0.03 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Wed 28 $10.00 1.00 0.10 $0.03 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Wed 28 Source: DolarToday.com

A recent paper by Steve H. Hanke and Charles Bushnell of Johns Hopkins adds Venezuela to the list of countries that have experienced hyperinflation — qualifying in December by having maintained a monthly inflation rate exceeding 50 percent for 30 days.

Why withdraw the 100-bolívar bill?

During periods of high inflation, it is common for governments to allow old bills to circulate for a time alongside freshly printed larger denominations, to ease the economic disruptions of switching currency.

Not so in Venezuela. The powerful interior and justice minister, Néstor Reverol, made an appearance on state television to explain the reasoning for the government’s decision to withdraw the 100-bolívar note so rapidly. Mr. Reverol is currently under federal indictment in the United States on cocaine trafficking charges.

With a PowerPoint presentation as a visual aid, he justified the move by laying out a wild theory that the United States Treasury Department had contracted with nongovernmental organizations to remove vast quantities of the rapidly depreciating 100-bolívar bill from Venezuela to be stored in secure locations in several European countries. He claimed that the United States government was attempting to use a “financial coup” to “strangle our country.”

Food prices and basic goods

Although prices are rising, food can be cheap at the subsidized government price, if you can find it. Parents line up before dawn to wait for hours for the chance to buy flour, milk and baby formula for their family at official prices. But the lines have also become easy targets for robberies, forcing some to weigh hunger against the threat of violence.

One concrete illustration of this is in the price of chicken, an important source of protein in Venezuela. The gap between the wholesale open market price and the official government price for chicken has ranged from 100 to 2,600 bolívars, spiking over the past few weeks. And retail prices would be even higher.

Wholesale price of chicken in Venezuela bolívars per kilo 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Government Open Market 2016 March June Sep. Dec. bolívars per kilo 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Government Open Market 2016 May Sep. Dec. Source: Steve H. Hanke, Johns Hopkins University

Skyrocketing prices are not limited to chicken. The basic index is a statistical measure that estimates the cost of providing staple foods and household goods for a family of four for a month. Venezuela’s basic index now stands at 624,544 bolívars, an amount that a poor family would have to earn 23 times the minimum wage to purchase.

In Caracas, the government has fought popular dissatisfaction with high prices during the holiday season by dispatching government inspectors and soldiers to compel hundreds of retail stores to hold Christmas sales with all merchandise at a 30 percent discount. Thirty percent, not coincidentally, is the maximum profit margin a privately owned store is allowed to make under a law enacted in 2014.

A sales assistant standing next to a sale sign in a store in Caracas on Dec. 9. Federico Parra/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

In December, the government also conducted Operation Baby Jesus, arresting two executives at a major Venezuelan toy distributor and seizing 3.8 million toys to be distributed to children.

“Across Venezuela, Operation Baby Jesus is a message to the right-wing: ‘You couldn’t steal Christmas from us!’” a state-run television channel posted on Twitter on Christmas Day.

There is one basic commodity that is still extremely affordable in Venezuela at any time of year: gas. At a little over a penny for 10 gallons of 91 octane gasoline, filling up the tank is cheaper than anywhere else in the world. Smuggling gas out of the country has become a lifeline for some Venezuelans struggling to hold on.

The murder capital of the world

As inflation gobbles up the salaries of the working and middle classes, workers are left with paychecks that can’t come close to feeding their families and are forced into desperate measures to make ends meet.

For some, that means turning to crime to survive. Cheap fuel, the wide availability of illegal weapons, gang control of prisons and a poorly trained and poorly paid police force are some of the noneconomic factors contributing to rising crime rates. And as the levels of drug dealing, burglary, home invasion, kidnapping and armed robbery have increased, homicides have as well.

According to this year’s report by a Mexican nonprofit group that tracks homicide rates in cities worldwide, Caracas has surpassed San Pedro Sula in Honduras as the city with the highest murder rate in the world. Counted together, the cities of Venezuela experience a higher average murder rate than in any other country.

Homicides per 100,000 people New York 4 Los Angeles 7 Chicago 18 New Orleans 41 Caracas 120 Sources: 2015 F.B.I. Uniform Crime Report, Consejo Ciudadano para la Seguridad Pública y Justicia Penal

What comes next?

On Thursday, President Maduro appeared again on state television to announce a second extension of the life of the 100-bolívar bill for an additional 18 days, until Jan. 20. With luck, the new bills, ranging in value from 500 to 20,000 bolívars, will have been made widely available before then.