Charlie Sheen tweets 'Trump next please' after death of Debbie Reynolds
Charlie Sheen tweets 'Trump next please' after death of Debbie Reynolds
harlie Sheen caused controversy by tweeting that he hopes Donald Trump is the next victim of 2016. He tweeted "Trump next, please" after the death of Debbie Reynolds, which appears to mean he wishes death on the president-elect. While many were sharing touching memories and photographs of the fallen star, as well as of  her daughter Carrie Fisher who died a day earlier, he shared his inflammatory thought about Mr Trump. ome appeared to share his sentiment; his tweet managed to get over 46,000 retweets. He was criticised by Twitter users including @Lenyanw, who said: "Wishing his death? really? how low can you people be?" . @charliesheen Charles!!! @charliesheen Imagine the outrage if someone tweeted "Obama next, please!" @charliesheen no matter how bad life gets, I never actively root for someone to die. That is a truly evil soul. @charliesheen 1) *Highly* offensive, inappropriate, & unpatriotic 2) Does God need repetition to hear? 3) You gave the middle finger to God. r Sheen has since defended his actions after his tweet went viral, writing:  "The media's reaction to last night's tweet is inanely emblematic of the panoramic timorousness draped vastly and wantonly across any and all expressions of hope or joy that we now dare to publish or impart. "Oh and by the way, I was talking to God, not you." his is a change of tune for the actor, who in June said he would support Mr Trump if he was elected. He said: "I think people just responded to something different, something fresh, something maverick, something innovative on some level. "If he gets in I've got to support him and hope he does the best job he can, and if he doesn't, then man - that was a hell of a run."

Charlie Sheen caused controversy by tweeting that he hopes Donald Trump is the next victim of 2016.

He tweeted "Trump next, please" after the death of Debbie Reynolds, which appears to mean he wishes death on the president-elect.

While many were sharing touching memories and photographs of the fallen star, as well as of her daughter Carrie Fisher who died a day earlier, he shared his inflammatory thought about Mr Trump.