Azealia Banks Has Apparently Been Sacrificing Chickens and Twitter Is Very Concerned
Azealia Banks Has Apparently Been Sacrificing Chickens and Twitter Is Very Concerned
There are plenty of potentially world-altering things going down this week, i.e. shit that actually matters . But, hey, I guess we'll talk about Azealia Banks appearing to confess to sacrificing chickens on Instagram in what some are calling the "grand finale" of this bullshit year: Azealia Banks via instagram, cleaning the closet she's been performing brujeria for 3 years in. pic.twitter.com/0OsoSdJynw Banks' Instagram story Thursday showed the artist discussing the difficulties of brujería cleanup. "You know I gotta scrape all this shit up," Banks said. "I got my sandblaster and my goggles. It's about to go down." Later in the Instagram story, Banks added: "Real witches do real things." Azealia Banks is in her IG story cleaning out her closet where she made chicken sacrifices for 3 years. Cc: @peta  pic.twitter.com/Cpf9AZt6mh And that's the end of this article! Nah, just fucking around. You know the formula by now. Here are tweets from various human beings reacting to this: Azealia is wild for this lmao 😭💀 pic.twitter.com/3P2AQ5B3pT Just when you thought 2016 was over Azealia banks hopped out the closet sacrificing chickens pic.twitter.com/T8Qss2aDar azealia banks confessing 2 sacrificing chickens in her bedroom closet is the grand finale of 2016 When you see the reason why Azealia Banks is trending. pic.twitter.com/LIKRuVxmOr Azealia Banks Instagram story is her cleaning out a closet where she’s been sacrificing chickens for 3 years… wtf you guys really thought 2016 could end any other way than finding out azealia banks been sacrificing chickens in her closet? it makes sense that 2016 ends with us finding out that azealia banks has been sacrificing chickens in her closet for 3 years GO LOOK AT AZEALIA BANKS INSTAGRAM STORY!!! ITS HER CLEANING OUT HER CLOSET WHERE SHES BEEN SACRIFICING CHICKENS FOR THREE YEARS NOT JOKING. Azealia Banks is sandblasting 3 years worth of blood and feathers off her floor from sacrificing chickens and i can't stop laughing pic.twitter.com/hz2hQVEMMW Others have taken umbrage with the location of these alleged sacrifices: doesn't azealia banks know you're supposed to sacrifice chickens on an ALTAR??? Earlier this month, Banks spoke recklessly about Nicki Minaj and received a punctual clapback from the Barbz . Days later, Banks declared 2017 the year of no pettiness:

There are plenty of potentially world-altering things going down this week, i.e. shit that actually matters. But, hey, I guess we'll talk about Azealia Banks appearing to confess to sacrificing chickens on Instagram in what some are calling the "grand finale" of this bullshit year:

Azealia Banks via instagram, cleaning the closet she's been performing brujeria for 3 years in. pic.twitter.com/0OsoSdJynw — AZEALIA BANKS VIDEOS (@AzealiaVideos) December 30, 2016

Banks' Instagram story Thursday showed the Slay-Z artist discussing the difficulties of brujería cleanup. "You know I gotta scrape all this shit up," Banks said. "I got my sandblaster and my goggles. It's about to go down." Later in the Instagram story, Banks added: "Real witches do real things."

Azealia Banks is in her IG story cleaning out her closet where she made chicken sacrifices for 3 years. Cc: @peta pic.twitter.com/Cpf9AZt6mh — ㅤ (@allisjah) December 30, 2016

And that's the end of this article! Nah, just fucking around. You know the formula by now. Here are tweets from various human beings reacting to this:

Azealia is wild for this lmao 😭💀 pic.twitter.com/3P2AQ5B3pT — Swang (@joyridethealbum) December 30, 2016

Just when you thought 2016 was over Azealia banks hopped out the closet sacrificing chickens pic.twitter.com/T8Qss2aDar — Poor Peoples Podcast (@poorpeoplespod) December 30, 2016

azealia banks confessing 2 sacrificing chickens in her bedroom closet is the grand finale of 2016 — 😤 (@tylerplanet8) December 30, 2016

When you see the reason why Azealia Banks is trending. pic.twitter.com/LIKRuVxmOr — Ian (@IanM_81) December 30, 2016

Azealia Banks Instagram story is her cleaning out a closet where she’s been sacrificing chickens for 3 years… wtf — Lux (@Callux) December 30, 2016

you guys really thought 2016 could end any other way than finding out azealia banks been sacrificing chickens in her closet? — . (@john__daniel) December 30, 2016

it makes sense that 2016 ends with us finding out that azealia banks has been sacrificing chickens in her closet for 3 years — chelsey (@chlsymthws) December 30, 2016

GO LOOK AT AZEALIA BANKS INSTAGRAM STORY!!! ITS HER CLEANING OUT HER CLOSET WHERE SHES BEEN SACRIFICING CHICKENS FOR THREE YEARS NOT JOKING. — Aaliyah (@Aaliyah_jx) December 30, 2016

Azealia Banks is sandblasting 3 years worth of blood and feathers off her floor from sacrificing chickens and i can't stop laughing pic.twitter.com/hz2hQVEMMW — PESADILLA KARDASHIAN (@fauxdeity) December 30, 2016

Others have taken umbrage with the location of these alleged sacrifices:

doesn't azealia banks know you're supposed to sacrifice chickens on an ALTAR??? — arby's witch (@holybowlers) December 30, 2016

Earlier this month, Banks spoke recklessly about Nicki Minaj and received a punctual clapback from the Barbz. Days later, Banks declared 2017 the year of no pettiness: