Finnish court convicts neo-Nazi to 2 years in prison
Finnish court convicts neo-Nazi to 2 years in prison


A Finnish neo-Nazi has been jailed for two years following a fatal assault on an innocent bystander who died after being kicked in the chest at a violent demonstratoin.

Jesse Torniainen, 26, was found guilty of kicking Jimi Joonas Karttunen in the chest on September 10 in Helsinki.

The neo-Nazi is a member of the Finnish chapter of the so-called Nordic Resistance Movement.

Finnish neo-Nazi group member Jesse Torniainen, pictured, was jailed for two years after he kicked a protester in the chest who fell and bashed his head on the ground and later died

Torniainen, left, claimed he only intended on scaring his victim Jimi Joonas Karttunen

Helsinki District Court heard he lashed out after Mr Karttunen made a 'disparaging remark' about his neo-Nazi group and spat on the pavement.

Torniainen kicked Mr Karttunen in the chest who was knocked to the ground and banged his head off the pavement and suffered catastrophic injuries.

Mr Karttunen died six days after the attack.

During the trial, Torniainen claimed he only intended to scare his victim.

However, the court found him guilty of 'aggravated violence' despite a plea by prosecutors that he should be convicted of 'aggravated manslaughter'.

Mr Karttunen, 28, fell to the ground and smashed his head, dying six days later due to bleeding on the brain.

But according to medical reports, Karttunen, a drug abuser, had used unprescribed medications and not followed hospital instructions while receiving treatment.

A video shot by the neo-Nazi Finnish Resistance Movement, showing the victim lying on a pavement with a small pool of blood behind his head, was still visible on YouTube on Friday.

Prosecutor Anja-Riitta Rinkinen slammed the court's decision not to convict Torniainen of manslaughter, saying the victim was killed because he stood against racism.

She said: 'An act of violence directed against a person who opposed the racist incitement can be considered to have a racist motive.

'We consider the victim to be such a person.'