Guatemalan authorities investigate death of model Melanie Montenegro
Guatemalan authorities investigate the death of model


Guatemalan authorities are investigating the death of a young model who died after undergoing a liposuction.

Melanie Montenegro, 22, had travelled to the city of Guayaquil, in the south-western Ecuadorian province of Guayas, one of the biggest cities in Ecuador, to undergo liposuction in a clinic owned by a surgeon named Dr Felipe.

According to police the model died after suffering a heart attack during surgery and netizens are now accusing the surgeon of delaying informing her family of her death in order to flee.

Guatemalan authorities are investigating the death of Melanie Montenegro after she died of a heart attack following liposuction

Actress Gabriela Ruiz and actor Daniel Machado have called on their social media profiles for the surgeon to be found.

In a posting they said: 'It looks as if the surgeon delayed informing anyone about her death to give himself time to escape.'

According to Edwin Montenegro, her father, they were informed that his daughter was dead via a telephone call from the owner of the clinic.

Melanie Montenegro had travelled to the city of Guayaquil to undergo liposuction in a clinic owned by a surgeon named Dr Felipe

He said that his medical team had not been informed that she was allergic to one of the medicines used during surgery.

The father, who said he had not realised his daughter was going to undergo the surgery, claimed that she had been misled by TV adverts offering low-cost surgery.

The prosecutor investigating the case, Fredy Toala, has already ordered a search of the surgery and home where the medic was supposedly living, but said it was empty.

The following day Melanie suffered a heart attack while undergoing surgery, and died, and the surgeon has now vanished

Her father, who said he had not realised his daughter was going to undergo the surgery, claimed that she had been misled by TV adverts offering low-cost surgery

A spokesman for the family, Hector Vanegas, said they also planned to report the clinic to medical authorities as well as pursuing a criminal complaint.

The model's mother, Margota Robles, said: 'I only want justice for my daughter.'

Melanie Montenegro was the mother of a three-year-old girl and was a minor celebrity by working in a soap opera broadcast on YouTube.