Street beggar flown from Scotland to Sweden by kind-hearted tourists for Christmas
Street beggar flown from Scotland to Sweden by kind-hearted tourists for Christmas
n Edinburgh street beggar spent Christmas in Sweden after two kind-hearted tourists invited him to spend the festive period with their family. Annis Lindkvist and her sister Emma say they were visiting the Scottish capital before Christmas and stopped to ask previously homeless man Jimmy Fraser for directions. At a hockey game he sisters revealed they quickly struck up a friendship with the 54-year-old, with Annis exchanging numbers and keeping in touch with the Scottish father-of-two. After discovering he would be spending Christmas alone, the Swedish national got him a new passport and paid for his flights to Scandinavia. Helping with the tree he 37-year-old told BBC Scotland : “There is a big place in my heart for him. “We give money to charity every month but we have never done anything like this before. “There were friends and family who thought I was really crazy but I just opened my home to him and said that everything that is ours was his too.” Tucking into a Christmas feast uring the trip, Mr Fraser went to a hockey game, spent time with her friends and family, took a trip to see some Christmas markets and tried some local cuisine, the Evening Edinburgh News reports. Wrapping presents he dad-of-two told the newspaper: “It’s just really amazing, I just can’t thank them enough. It’s unreal – even though I’m back I still can’t believe it did actually happen.” he former security guard, who has found accommodation through homeless charity the Ark Trust, added the trip was a “dream come true”. He moved to Edinburgh 13 years ago after becoming homeless following a divorce, reports say. Meeting new friends eanwhile, this couple's kind act for a homeless man in a tent has warmed internet hearts. This elderly couple have also found internet fame after stopping to help this young man at a train station .

An Edinburgh street beggar spent Christmas in Sweden after two kind-hearted tourists invited him to spend the festive period with their family.

Annis Lindkvist and her sister Emma say they were visiting the Scottish capital before Christmas and stopped to ask previously homeless man Jimmy Fraser for directions.

At a hockey game