Win one of 12 brilliant designer gifts worth £7,150 - and help the Telegraph's charity appeal
Win one of 12 brilliant designer gifts worth  £7,150 - and help the Telegraph's charity appeal 
Over the last 26 years, the Telegraph charity appeal – our annual initiative with readers to raise funds for three deserving causes around the country – has raised more than £23m to improve the lives of those in need. Irrespective of the nation’s economic standing or political situation, each year the astonishing generosity of your donations, large or small, singular or repeated, never seems to waver. It is testament to the compassion and spirit of giving that remains central to the Christmas message. his year's charities are Heads Together, the campaign launched by Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry which supports the work of eight inspirational mental health charities; Roald Dahl’s Marvellous Children’s Charity that has changed the lives of thousands of children and Blue Cross , which provides a sanctuary and medical treatment for injured and homeless animals. We have started telling the charities’ stories; meeting some of those they’ve helped , and finding out their plans to use the money you raise . And now, we’re offering you a way to donate to these worthy causes - and be in with the chance of walking away with a designer treat as a token of our thanks. rom a Mulberry bag to a cashmere-mix Pringle of Scotland jumper and a laser-cut lace dress from Self Portrait, the label loved by the Duchess of Cambridge, there are 12 amazing giveaways on offer. To be in with a chance of winning any of the items below, visit www.telegraph.co.uk/fashiongiveaway and make a £5 minimum donation to The Telegraph’s charities. Your name will then be entered into a prize draw and the winner will be chosen at random. If you’re feeling generous you can enter all 12 prize draws up to 50 times, but the giveaways close at midnight on Friday January 6 2017 so be quick to bring some extra cheer to you and yours and help our appeal while you are doing so... You can also enter through the web address, above, without making a donation, though this will mean our chosen charities will miss out. 1. Mulberry Camden small classic grain bag in indigo, worth £995 The bag brand of choice for Alexa Chung, Kate Bosworth and Olivia Palermo, Mulberry's latest autumn/winter offering is the Camden bag. The slouchy style is the epitome of off-duty cool, and the statement zips, bold colour and buttery soft leather make it ideal for day-to-day wear. ​2. Monica Vinader 18ct rose gold vermeil on sterling silver diamond toggle bracelet, worth £375 ith just the right amount of sparkle, Monica Vinader's popular Figi bracelet adds a subtle and elegant touch to an outfit. The clever toggle allows the bracelet to easily adjust to suit different sizes, and the pretty rose gold tone makes it that bit more special. 3. Annick Goutal eau d'Hadrein candle, worth approx £200 nnick Goutal's famous candles are made all the more luxurious with this three-wick version, in a gold printed clear glass. The generous size means it will burn for up to 200 hours, leaving your home smelling of sweet Sicilian lemon and grapefruit. 4. Avenue 32 Sonia Rykiel black leather shoulder bag, worth £965 his triple strap shoulder bag with large compartments was made for 24-hour wear and will come in handy this party season. Use the riveted wide shoulder strap for day, then the slim gold chain strap for night. The final top handle adds a ladylike touch, perfect for work. 5. Pringle of Scotland boat neck slouch jumper in off-white, only available in size small, worth £450 o-one needs persuading this time of year to reach for a cosy knit, and this merino wool and cashmere sweater will keep the chill out all winter long. This is to be worn slightly oversized so the size small will fit a size 8-12 best. The tie cuffs and dropped shoulder add to the laid-back feel. 6. Self-Portrait asymmetric lace dress, worth £280 ince the Duchess of Cambridge wore a Self-Portrait dress last month, the designs have been more popular than ever. Made from a combination of guipure lace and embroidery, the exquisite detailing on Self-Portrait dresses mean they're highly sought after and often sell out completely. This dress falls just below the knee. Available in UK sizes 8-14. 7. Givenchy Le Soin Noir skincare set, worth approx £650 ivenchy's luxurious Le Soin Noir range is a highly concentrated, age-defying experience, which includes a cleanser with algae complex to assist in skin renewal, and a serum which leaves skin firmer, denser, more toned and with wrinkles and fine lines smoothed. 8. ghd Limited Edition electric pink Air hairdryer, worth £99 ach year, ghd release their iconic Air hairdryer in a limited edition pink colourway. This exclusive pink dryer is the latest design and it's already sold out. Get this one while you can. 9. Moncler Anthia padded jacket in red, only available in size small, worth £680 his lacquered nylon jacket has been given water-repellent treatment and an adjustable drawstring hood - perfect for unpredictable weather. The short down style is lightweight, warm and, as it's designed for a close fit, it will fit petite UK sizes 8-10 best. 10. Space NK beauty hamper, worth approx £675 his one-of-a-kind hamper has everything you need to pamper your way into 2017. It includes full-size versions of many popular beauty products, including This Works deep pillow spray, Aurelia Probiotic Skincare miracle cleanser, Veneffect firming phyto-lift serum and Laura Mercier vanilla souffle body creme. 11. Bally B-Loved leather shoulder bag in red, worth £1250 his elegant structured bag has multiple pockets and small gold feet on the bottom to protect the base. The sleek and modern patent finish means it's ideal for an evening out, and will easily fit all of the essentials. There's an optional cross-body strap to leave you hands-free, too. 12. Smythson Mara mini jewellery case in magenta, worth £495 eep all of your jewels safe and organised in this lockable jewellery box made from printed calf leather. The light grey nubuck interior is tarnish-resistant and makes for a stylish presentation of your finest pieces. The mini size makes it ideal for travelling, too.

Mulberry, Smythson, Pringle, oh my! There are £7,150 worth of designer fashion and beauty prizes to be won in our great designer giveaway. And the best bit? You’ll be helping to support The Telegraph’s charity appeal…

Over the last 26 years, the Telegraph charity appeal – our annual initiative with readers to raise funds for three deserving causes around the country – has raised more than £23m to improve the lives of those in need.

Irrespective of the nation’s economic standing or political situation, each year the astonishing generosity of your donations, large or small, singular or repeated, never seems to waver. It is testament to the compassion and spirit of giving that remains central to the Christmas message.