Why Women Driven By Passion And Purpose Get Seats In Corporate Boardrooms
Why Women Driven By Passion And Purpose Get Seats In Corporate Boardrooms
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  MeiMei Fox       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Continued from page 1 Elisa Steele believes purpose and passion are vital to success. (Courtesy of Jive Software) Elisa Steele is the CEO of Jive Software and sits on the Board of Directors of Amber Alert GPS . She says: Purpose happens when you truly believe in what you are doing. And purpose is so important to unleash your passion. It just doesn’t work to be in an industry you don’t care about. Looking back, I think that my time at some of the best-loved technology brands—Skype, Microsoft, Yahoo, and now Jive— has been so rewarding because I lived and breathed the purpose of each brand. I love brands on a mission! I’ve come to believe in work/life balance. It’s just life. That philosophy leads me to deeply value diverse people and teams. I embrace different workstyles and like the challenge of breaking down barriers that may be confining and/or uncomfortable for some people. That’s why I feel so strongly about using technology to collaborate. Terri Funk Graham says she is driven by faith, family, and fun. (Photo by Mike Albans) Terri Funk Graham , the former CMO of RedEnvelope, sits on the Board of Directors of Sprouts Farmers Markets and 1-800 Contacts . She offers: When I think about purpose in my career, I reflect on my values and what drives me. My personal values are family, faith, and fun. My career has been a journey of working on brands that allowed me to elicit joy in people’s lives. I have done this with every brand I have been involved with, in an effort to touch consumer’s lives. I find improving someone’s life, with even a small gesture such as creating a smile, immensely rewarding. My experience has been that The boardroom provides an opportunity to work with smart, hardworking individuals with different backgrounds. Diversity of thought is the best weapon; it allows a company to collect unique experiences, backgrounds, and perspectives to drive real business value. The value that I bring to the boardroom is connecting the strategic direction with consumers at the center of the conversation, which drives financial results and shareholder value.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Continued from page 1

Elisa Steele is the CEO of Jive Software and sits on the Board of Directors of Amber Alert GPS. She says:

Purpose happens when you truly believe in what you are doing. And purpose is so important to unleash your passion. It just doesn’t work to be in an industry you don’t care about. Looking back, I think that my time at some of the best-loved technology brands—Skype, Microsoft, Yahoo, and now Jive— has been so rewarding because I lived and breathed the purpose of each brand. I love brands on a mission!

I’ve come to not believe in work/life balance. It’s just life. That philosophy leads me to deeply value diverse people and teams. I embrace different workstyles and like the challenge of breaking down barriers that may be confining and/or uncomfortable for some people. That’s why I feel so strongly about using technology to collaborate.

Terri Funk Graham, the former CMO of RedEnvelope, sits on the Board of Directors of Sprouts Farmers Markets and 1-800 Contacts. She offers:

When I think about purpose in my career, I reflect on my values and what drives me. My personal values are family, faith, and fun. My career has been a journey of working on brands that allowed me to elicit joy in people’s lives. I have done this with every brand I have been involved with, in an effort to touch consumer’s lives. I find improving someone’s life, with even a small gesture such as creating a smile, immensely rewarding.

My experience has been that the more passion people have for the work that they do, the more likely they are to demonstrate positive energy and success in life. The boardroom provides an opportunity to work with smart, hardworking individuals with different backgrounds. Diversity of thought is the best weapon; it allows a company to collect unique experiences, backgrounds, and perspectives to drive real business value. The value that I bring to the boardroom is connecting the strategic direction with consumers at the center of the conversation, which drives financial results and shareholder value.