Carrie Fisher's Singing Voice: 5 Times She Shared Her Hidden Musical Side
Carrie Fisher's Singing Voice: 5 Times She Shared Her Hidden Musical Side
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Carrie Fisher's Singing Voice: 5 Times She Shared Her Hidden Musical Side  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  Carrie Fisher, who passed away from a heart attack at the age of 60 on Dec. 27, was best known for portraying Princess Leia in the franchise. In addition to appearing in and numerous other films such as and , Fisher was a writer, performer and Hollywood script doctor. But Fisher had another talent she didn't share too often with the public: Her natural and strong singing voice. Fisher occasionally showcased her vocals when goaded by her mother, Debbie Reynolds, who sang a beautiful duet with her daughter in 2011 on  "When you were just a little girl, you wouldn't sing, I always said I'd love you to sing, and you always shied away," Reynolds said to Fisher on Oprah's show. "But you wouldn't do it, and you had a great voice." Fisher did have a lovely voice, and Billboard takes a look back at some of those moments below. In 2011, there was a sweet moment on when mother and daughter joined together for a touching performance of "You Made Me Love You" from the Broadway musical , which Reynolds had a starring role in. "I stopped singing for 30 years," Fisher said to her mother, but joined in for "Happy Days Are Here Again" toward the end. In a 1982 episode o Fisher took the microphone for a humorous scene where she sang "My Guy" in a Playboy Bunny outfit. Check out both Fisher and Penny Marshall trying to impress Hugh Hefner, who makes a cameo in the scene, below. Princess Leia, Chewbacca, C-3P0, R2-D2, Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were all on hand to celebrate Light Day on the maligned 1978 holiday TV special. "This day brings us closer to freedom, and to harmony and to peace. No matter how different we appear, we are all the same in our struggle against the powers of evil and darkness," Leia says in the clip. Before the opening of Fisher joined Jimmy Fallon and The Roots, along with stars Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Adam Driver, Gwendoline Christie, Lupita Nyong'o, and Harrison Ford for this a cappella mashup of several songs. Fisher sang Yoko Ono's "What A Bastard The World Is" from the album live with The Plastic Ono Band on the first night of the group's shows at The Orpheum Theater in Los Angeles in Oct. 2010.

Carrie Fisher's Singing Voice: 5 Times She Shared Her Hidden Musical Side

Carrie Fisher, who passed away from a heart attack at the age of 60 on Dec. 27, was best known for portraying Princess Leia in the Star Wars franchise. In addition to appearing in Star Wars and numerous other films such as Shampoo and When Harry Met Sally..., Fisher was a writer, performer and Hollywood script doctor. But Fisher had another talent she didn't share too often with the public: Her natural and strong singing voice.

Fisher occasionally showcased her vocals when goaded by her mother, Debbie Reynolds, who sang a beautiful duet with her daughter in 2011 on The Oprah Winfrey Show.

"When you were just a little girl, you wouldn't sing, I always said I'd love you to sing, and you always shied away," Reynolds said to Fisher on Oprah's show. "But you wouldn't do it, and you had a great voice."

Fisher did have a lovely voice, and Billboard takes a look back at some of those moments below.

Fisher and Reynolds Duet on "You Made Me Love You" and "Happy Days Are Here Again"

In 2011, there was a sweet moment on Oprah when mother and daughter joined together for a touching performance of "You Made Me Love You" from the Broadway musical Irene, which Reynolds had a starring role in. "I stopped singing for 30 years," Fisher said to her mother, but joined in for "Happy Days Are Here Again" toward the end.



Fisher Dons a Playboy Bunny Suit for Laverne and Shirley

In a 1982 episode of Laverne and Shirley, Fisher took the microphone for a humorous scene where she sang "My Guy" in a Playboy Bunny outfit. Check out both Fisher and Penny Marshall trying to impress Hugh Hefner, who makes a cameo in the scene, below.

Princess Leia Brings Peace to the Galaxy With Star Wars Holiday Special Song

Princess Leia, Chewbacca, C-3P0, R2-D2, Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were all on hand to celebrate Light Day on the maligned 1978 holiday Star Wars TV special. "This day brings us closer to freedom, and to harmony and to peace. No matter how different we appear, we are all the same in our struggle against the powers of evil and darkness," Leia says in the clip.



Fisher Sings the Star Wars Theme A Cappella with Jimmy Fallon and The Roots

Before the opening of The Force Awakens, Fisher joined Jimmy Fallon and The Roots, along with stars Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Adam Driver, Gwendoline Christie, Lupita Nyong'o, and Harrison Ford for this a cappella mashup of several Star Wars songs.

Fisher Jams With the Plastic Ono Band

Fisher sang Yoko Ono's "What A Bastard The World Is" from the album Approximately Infinite Universe live with The Plastic Ono Band on the first night of the group's shows at The Orpheum Theater in Los Angeles in Oct. 2010.