A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York Suburb and Small Maryland Town
A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York Suburb and Small Maryland Town 
Shares               In a property on Long Island's Gold Coast sits one of several posh homes hidden from eyes of passers-by. Hundreds of miles away, in Centreville, Maryland, is a 45-acre bucolic retreat, complete with a 33-room house that has a vault for fur and 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Aside from offering what appeared to be pinnacle of luxury on some of the most desired pieces of land, the estates have another thing in common -- they're complexes owned and used by Russian governmental officials. On Thursday the White House announced that both will be shuttered in retaliation for a series of cyberattacks that targeted U.S. political institutions during the election. Here's a look at the history of each of the dachas.  Pioneer Point in Centreville, Maryland The Russian-owned compound in Maryland is a 45-acre retreat on Pioneer Point, a peninsula where the Corsica and Chester rivers merge. The luxury retreat is being shut down due to alleged Russian espionage , The Washington Post reported . As of Friday evening, Google Maps labeled the "Russian Embassy's Country Retreat" as "permanently closed." Google classified the property as an assisted living facility.   Pioneer Point was the estate of former DuPont and General Motors executive John J. Raskob, according to the Hagley Museum and Library . Raskob is best known for building the Empire State Building . In 1972, the Soviet government paid $1.2 million -- in cash -- for two Raskob mansions to be used as a vacation spot for diplomats, The New York Times reported. At the time, a local newspaper reported "fears of nuclear submarines surfacing in the Chester River to pick up American Secrets and defectors," according to the Washington Post. But, the abundance of dinner parties, caviar and vodka eventually won the locals over. The property included 33 rooms, 13 fireplaces, a refrigerated storage vault for fur and a 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Also featured on the property were about a mile of sandy beach, a swimming pool, two tennis courts, soccer fields and a goldfish pond, according to the Times. The Russian occupants later added to the estate by making a deal with the U.S. State Department , which received two properties in Moscow in return, according to the Washington Post.        Property in Upper Brookville, New York A Russian compound in Upper Brookville, New York is also being shut down, the town’s mayor confirmed to ABC News. The property is among of a number of homes in the posh community and a police officer and a federal agent’s SUV were seen parked at the end of the driveway Friday. Obama expelled 35 Russian nationals and sanctioned five Russian entities and four individuals for the "acting in a manner inconsistent with their diplomatic status," the White House said. The president said the actions "follow repeated private and public warnings" that have been issued to the Russian government, adding that they are a "necessary and appropriate" response to "efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior." Russian had planned to retaliate but Putin rejected a recommendation from his foreign minister to expel 35 U.S. diplomats. It will be up to Putin to draft any retaliatory measures. "We will certainly response adequately…and it will be determined in line with decisions adopted by the Russian President," Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov told reporters.    Shares                  A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York Suburb and Small Maryland Town   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Appeals Court to Decide on Challenge to Trump's Immigration Executive Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeast Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Manhunt on in Florida, Alabama for Duo Wanted for 3 Murders   Romania Protests Endure as President Says Country in Crisis   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   Israeli Allies Condemn Settlement Law as Lawsuits Loom   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Ben Stiller Shares Stories from Meeting Refugees in Jordan   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Slain ISIS Hostage's Family Gives to Aid Group They Say Failed Their Daughter   US Hostage Kayla Mueller's Foundation Finally Receives Obama Donation   Life After ISIS: One Girl's Story From Slavery to Freedom   'Bachelor' Nick Viall: I Was 'More Aware' of Drama Than Some Women Realized   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Glitz, Gowns and Politics at This Year's Oscars   1st 'Iron Fist' Trailer Tells Origin Story of Danny Rand   $250M Los Angeles Mega Mansion Is Most Expensive US Listing

In a property on Long Island's Gold Coast sits one of several posh homes hidden from eyes of passers-by.

Hundreds of miles away, in Centreville, Maryland, is a 45-acre bucolic retreat, complete with a 33-room house that has a vault for fur and 3,000-bottle wine cellar.

Aside from offering what appeared to be pinnacle of luxury on some of the most desired pieces of land, the estates have another thing in common -- they're complexes owned and used by Russian governmental officials.

On Thursday the White House announced that both will be shuttered in retaliation for a series of cyberattacks that targeted U.S. political institutions during the election.

Here's a look at the history of each of the dachas.

Pioneer Point in Centreville, Maryland

The Russian-owned compound in Maryland is a 45-acre retreat on Pioneer Point, a peninsula where the Corsica and Chester rivers merge. The luxury retreat is being shut down due to alleged Russian espionage, The Washington Post reported.

As of Friday evening, Google Maps labeled the "Russian Embassy's Country Retreat" as "permanently closed." Google classified the property as an assisted living facility.

Joel Schectman/Reuters

Pioneer Point was the estate of former DuPont and General Motors executive John J. Raskob, according to the Hagley Museum and Library. Raskob is best known for building the Empire State Building.

In 1972, the Soviet government paid $1.2 million -- in cash -- for two Raskob mansions to be used as a vacation spot for diplomats, The New York Times reported. At the time, a local newspaper reported "fears of nuclear submarines surfacing in the Chester River to pick up American Secrets and defectors," according to the Washington Post. But, the abundance of dinner parties, caviar and vodka eventually won the locals over.

The property included 33 rooms, 13 fireplaces, a refrigerated storage vault for fur and a 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Also featured on the property were about a mile of sandy beach, a swimming pool, two tennis courts, soccer fields and a goldfish pond, according to the Times.

The Russian occupants later added to the estate by making a deal with the U.S. State Department, which received two properties in Moscow in return, according to the Washington Post.

Property in Upper Brookville, New York

A Russian compound in Upper Brookville, New York is also being shut down, the town’s mayor confirmed to ABC News.

The property is among of a number of homes in the posh community and a police officer and a federal agent’s SUV were seen parked at the end of the driveway Friday.

Obama expelled 35 Russian nationals and sanctioned five Russian entities and four individuals for the "acting in a manner inconsistent with their diplomatic status," the White House said. The president said the actions "follow repeated private and public warnings" that have been issued to the Russian government, adding that they are a "necessary and appropriate" response to "efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior."

Russian had planned to retaliate but Putin rejected a recommendation from his foreign minister to expel 35 U.S. diplomats. It will be up to Putin to draft any retaliatory measures.

"We will certainly response adequately…and it will be determined in line with decisions adopted by the Russian President," Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov told reporters.

ABC News' Aaron Katersky contributed to this report.

Editor's Note: An earlier version of this story reported that the compound in Glen Cove was being shuttered. New information indicates it is a compound in Upper Brookville instead.