Why President Trump Needs A Five-Year Defense Plan On Day One
Why President Trump Needs A Five-Year Defense Plan On Day One
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Loren Thompson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. There's a saying in Washington that if new presidents don't move out on making changes the first year they are in office, the changes never happen. They get captured by the system -- the bureaucrats, the lobbyists -- and whatever it was they thought they were going to achieve during their presidency gets lost in the shuffle. President-elect Donald J. Trump doesn't seem like a chief executive who will get caught in that trap. He has already identified a raft of changes he intends to make during his first hundred days in office, and he is unusually strong-willed. Not a go-along-to-get-along type. However, when it comes to defense there's a problem. It's a lot more time-consuming to rebuild depleted military capabilities or reform the Pentagon's business culture than it is to cancel your predecessor's executive orders. Fixing defense will take years, and if the new president doesn't start out with a long-term plan, defense might not get fixed at all. Ronald Reagan's defense goals were similar to those articulated by President-elect Trump. Reagan's success in implementing his goals may offer lessons for the Trump Administration. (Credit: Wikimedia Commons; Trump image by Gage Skidmore/ Wikimedia Commons) Picking retired Marine Corps General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense is an inspired first step in transforming the Pentagon. Mattis knows war in a way few other candidates could have, he will pick proven subordinates, and he will not let politics interfere with his pursuit of military success. However, the antibodies to change will not take long to emerge in the bureaucracy and in the political culture. Beneficiaries of the status quo will make common cause with people who have other priorities than national security. If the Trump Administration doesn't begin with a five-year plan for fixing the five-sided building, it will be hard to stay on course. Ronald Reagan, the last president who transformed America's military in a big, positive way, understood this. He came to Washington with a clear set of goals for rebuilding the military already in his head, and defense secretary Caspar Weinberger laid out what those goals would mean in the opening pages of his first annual report:    Trending on {{channel_name}}

There's a saying in Washington that if new presidents don't move out on making changes the first year they are in office, the changes never happen. They get captured by the system -- the bureaucrats, the lobbyists -- and whatever it was they thought they were going to achieve during their presidency gets lost in the shuffle.

President-elect Donald J. Trump doesn't seem like a chief executive who will get caught in that trap. He has already identified a raft of changes he intends to make during his first hundred days in office, and he is unusually strong-willed. Not a go-along-to-get-along type.

However, when it comes to defense there's a problem. It's a lot more time-consuming to rebuild depleted military capabilities or reform the Pentagon's business culture than it is to cancel your predecessor's executive orders. Fixing defense will take years, and if the new president doesn't start out with a long-term plan, defense might not get fixed at all.

Picking retired Marine Corps General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense is an inspired first step in transforming the Pentagon. Mattis knows war in a way few other candidates could have, he will pick proven subordinates, and he will not let politics interfere with his pursuit of military success.

However, the antibodies to change will not take long to emerge in the bureaucracy and in the political culture. Beneficiaries of the status quo will make common cause with people who have other priorities than national security. If the Trump Administration doesn't begin with a five-year plan for fixing the five-sided building, it will be hard to stay on course.

Ronald Reagan, the last president who transformed America's military in a big, positive way, understood this. He came to Washington with a clear set of goals for rebuilding the military already in his head, and defense secretary Caspar Weinberger laid out what those goals would mean in the opening pages of his first annual report:

Serious deficiencies in our military forces have compelled us to break with past thinking and to develop new policies and programs. We must correct the major weaknesses in our defenses that have resulted from a decade of neglect.