Ban 'vegetarian' sausages because they are confusing consumers, says German government minister
Ban 'vegetarian' sausages because they are confusing consumers, says German government minister
Vegetarian sausages should be called something else because the term is misleading as they do not contain meat, Germany's agriculture minister has said. Christian Schmidt called for a ban on names such as "vegetarian schnitzel", “vegetarian sausage” and “vegetarian meatballs”, which contain meat-substitute products, because they are confusing for customers. He told German newspaper Bild: "These terms are completely misleading and unsettle consumers.   'Democracy sausage' named Australia's official word of 2016 "I favour them being banned in the interest of clear consumer labelling." Manufacturers should not “pretend to have meat in these pseudo-meat dishes”, he added. Mr Schmidt was unhappy about the sale of “vegan curywurst” - a meat-free take on a spicy pork dish that is popular in Germany. He said he has written to the European Commission demanding that rules governing the use of the terms "milk" and "cheese" are applied to meat as well. The minister's spokesman, Jens Urban, told reporters: "He considers names such as vegan currywurst and so forth to be misleading to consumers. "Clarity and truth, transparency for consumers - those are the measures that should apply for the labelling of all products, always and forever." Food trends in 2016               Food trends in 2016    Celeriac root   We had a kale obsession in 2015, but 2016’s  vegetable sine qua non is predicted to be the knobbly celeriac root. Celeriac milk (Tom  Hunt at Poco in Bristol serves it with winter mussels and wild water celery), celeriac cooked in Galician beef fat (from Adam Rawson of Pachamama, hot new chef in the capital) and salt-baked celeriac (to be found in Matthew and Iain Pennington’s kitchens at The Ethicurean in the West Country) are just a few examples.   Getty Images     Middle Eastern food   The Middle Eastern Vegetarian Cookbook (£24.95, Phaidon) by grand-dame Salma Hage, author of the bestseller The Lebanese Kitchen (whose halva is pictured here), is out in April   © Liz & Max Haarala Hamilton     Non-alcoholic cocktails   Grain Store mixologist Tony Conigliaro has created Roman Redhead, a riot of red grape juice, beetroot, pale ale and verjus, and Rose Iced Tea (black tea, rose petals, anise essence, pictured here)      Gin   The discerning will be slurping Hepple gin – from chef Valentine Warner and cocktail guru Nick Strangeway – which is punctuated with bog-myrtle nuances      Argyll and Bute   Restaurant followers are getting in a froth about Pam Brunton in Scotland, who opened the Inver restaurant in Argyll and Bute to acclaim last year      Andy Oliver’s Som Saa   One of the most eagerly awaited restaurants  of 2016 will be the permanent incarnation of Andy Oliver’s remarkable pop-up Som Saa opening very soon in east London. Oliver, who worked at Thai god David Thompson’s Nahm in Bangkok, raised a whopping £700,000 through crowdfunding, and is renowned for his piquant Thai flavours and obsessive attention to detail, including in his home ferments and DIY coconut cream   © Adam Weatherley     Venison   Another ruminant in vogue is venison, with Sainsbury’s doubling its line for 2016. It provides a protein-packed punch, with B vitamins and iron, and it’s low in fat. Its entry into the mainstream is in part thanks to the Scottish restaurant Mac and Wild, just opened in London, whose Celtic head chef Andy Waugh (who also runs the Wild Game Co) has been touting it as street food for years (his venison burger pictured here)      Goat   From Brett Graham’s The Ledbury to Angela Hartnett’s kitchens at Lime Wood Hotel in the New Forest, Cabrito is the go-to goat supplier among the chef cognoscenti (roasted loin of kid pictured here) – but this year, domestic cooks can get in on the action, as Sushila Moles and James Whetlor of Cabrito offer their meat through Ocado   Mike Lusmore / mikelusmore.com     Coffee   Coffee sage George Crawford is launching the much-anticipated Cupsmith with his partner, Emma. Crawford believes that 2016 is the year purist coffee will finally meet the masses; Cupsmith’s mission will be to make craft coffee as popular as craft beer on the high street. The company roasts Arabica beans in small batches, improving its quality – but sells it online, at cupsmith.com, in an approachable way: expect cheerful packaging and names such as Afternoon Reviver Coffee (designed for drinking with milk – no matter how uncouth, most of us want milk) and Glorious Espresso   Julia Conway     120-day-old steak   Hanging meat for extremely long lengths of time has become an art. In Cumbria, Lake Road Kitchen’s James Cross is plating up 120-day-old steak (pictured here). The beef is from influential “ager” Dan Austin of Lake District Farmers, who is currently investigating the individual bacterial cultures that go into this maturing process      Lotus root   Diners can expect root-to-stem dining - cue the full lotus deployed by the Michelin-starred Indian Benares in its kamal kakdi aur paneer korma   Getty Images  Asked whether the measures could also affect beefsteak tomatoes, Urban said that the ministry was not aware of any "consumer confusion" about such products. In the interview with Bild, Schmidt — a member of the conservative, Bavaria-based Christian Social Union — also reiterated a call for schools to serve pork. Asked whether it was right for them to leave pork off the menu out of consideration for Muslims, he said: “We should not restrict the choice for the majority of society for reasons of ease or cost." He suggested increased cultural diversity should lead to more choice, not less. . More about: Germany Vegetarian Vegan EU Comments

Vegetarian sausages should be called something else because the term is misleading as they do not contain meat, Germany's agriculture minister has said.

Christian Schmidt called for a ban on names such as "vegetarian schnitzel", “vegetarian sausage” and “vegetarian meatballs”, which contain meat-substitute products, because they are confusing for customers.

He told German newspaper Bild: "These terms are completely misleading and unsettle consumers.

"I favour them being banned in the interest of clear consumer labelling."

Manufacturers should not “pretend to have meat in these pseudo-meat dishes”, he added.

Mr Schmidt was unhappy about the sale of “vegan curywurst” - a meat-free take on a spicy pork dish that is popular in Germany.

He said he has written to the European Commission demanding that rules governing the use of the terms "milk" and "cheese" are applied to meat as well.

The minister's spokesman, Jens Urban, told reporters: "He considers names such as vegan currywurst and so forth to be misleading to consumers.

"Clarity and truth, transparency for consumers - those are the measures that should apply for the labelling of all products, always and forever."

Food trends in 2016







11 show all Food trends in 2016



















1/11 Celeriac root We had a kale obsession in 2015, but 2016’s vegetable sine qua non is predicted to be the knobbly celeriac root. Celeriac milk (Tom Hunt at Poco in Bristol serves it with winter mussels and wild water celery), celeriac cooked in Galician beef fat (from Adam Rawson of Pachamama, hot new chef in the capital) and salt-baked celeriac (to be found in Matthew and Iain Pennington’s kitchens at The Ethicurean in the West Country) are just a few examples. Getty Images

2/11 Middle Eastern food The Middle Eastern Vegetarian Cookbook (£24.95, Phaidon) by grand-dame Salma Hage, author of the bestseller The Lebanese Kitchen (whose halva is pictured here), is out in April © Liz & Max Haarala Hamilton

3/11 Non-alcoholic cocktails Grain Store mixologist Tony Conigliaro has created Roman Redhead, a riot of red grape juice, beetroot, pale ale and verjus, and Rose Iced Tea (black tea, rose petals, anise essence, pictured here)

4/11 Gin The discerning will be slurping Hepple gin – from chef Valentine Warner and cocktail guru Nick Strangeway – which is punctuated with bog-myrtle nuances

5/11 Argyll and Bute Restaurant followers are getting in a froth about Pam Brunton in Scotland, who opened the Inver restaurant in Argyll and Bute to acclaim last year

6/11 Andy Oliver’s Som Saa One of the most eagerly awaited restaurants of 2016 will be the permanent incarnation of Andy Oliver’s remarkable pop-up Som Saa opening very soon in east London. Oliver, who worked at Thai god David Thompson’s Nahm in Bangkok, raised a whopping £700,000 through crowdfunding, and is renowned for his piquant Thai flavours and obsessive attention to detail, including in his home ferments and DIY coconut cream © Adam Weatherley

7/11 Venison Another ruminant in vogue is venison, with Sainsbury’s doubling its line for 2016. It provides a protein-packed punch, with B vitamins and iron, and it’s low in fat. Its entry into the mainstream is in part thanks to the Scottish restaurant Mac and Wild, just opened in London, whose Celtic head chef Andy Waugh (who also runs the Wild Game Co) has been touting it as street food for years (his venison burger pictured here)

8/11 Goat From Brett Graham’s The Ledbury to Angela Hartnett’s kitchens at Lime Wood Hotel in the New Forest, Cabrito is the go-to goat supplier among the chef cognoscenti (roasted loin of kid pictured here) – but this year, domestic cooks can get in on the action, as Sushila Moles and James Whetlor of Cabrito offer their meat through Ocado Mike Lusmore / mikelusmore.com

9/11 Coffee Coffee sage George Crawford is launching the much-anticipated Cupsmith with his partner, Emma. Crawford believes that 2016 is the year purist coffee will finally meet the masses; Cupsmith’s mission will be to make craft coffee as popular as craft beer on the high street. The company roasts Arabica beans in small batches, improving its quality – but sells it online, at cupsmith.com, in an approachable way: expect cheerful packaging and names such as Afternoon Reviver Coffee (designed for drinking with milk – no matter how uncouth, most of us want milk) and Glorious Espresso Julia Conway

10/11 120-day-old steak Hanging meat for extremely long lengths of time has become an art. In Cumbria, Lake Road Kitchen’s James Cross is plating up 120-day-old steak (pictured here). The beef is from influential “ager” Dan Austin of Lake District Farmers, who is currently investigating the individual bacterial cultures that go into this maturing process

11/11 Lotus root Diners can expect root-to-stem dining - cue the full lotus deployed by the Michelin-starred Indian Benares in its kamal kakdi aur paneer korma Getty Images

Asked whether the measures could also affect beefsteak tomatoes, Urban said that the ministry was not aware of any "consumer confusion" about such products.

In the interview with Bild, Schmidt — a member of the conservative, Bavaria-based Christian Social Union — also reiterated a call for schools to serve pork.

Asked whether it was right for them to leave pork off the menu out of consideration for Muslims, he said: “We should not restrict the choice for the majority of society for reasons of ease or cost."

He suggested increased cultural diversity should lead to more choice, not less.

Additional reporting by AP.