Shaq Challenges JaVale McGee to Go Three Games Without Doing Something to Make "Shaqtin' A Fool"
Shaq Challenges JaVale McGee to Go Three Games Without Doing Something to Make "Shaqtin' A Fool"
Warriors center JaVale McGee isn't a bad player, per say. But his semi-frequent appearances on can often make him look like one. Case in point: In fact, McGee's recurring clips on Shaq's segment got so repetitious that before this season the 28-year-old big man told his feelings about being constantly featured in the blooper reel. "Fans think it’s real, like that’s real life and they think I’m a dumb person," he said, back in October. "It’s just really disappointing that grown men, 50, 40 year olds are having America’s funniest home videos of a player. And then making it a hashtag and really just trying to ruin someone’s career over basketball mistakes." Flash forward to Thursday night, where Shaq is apparently giving McGee an opportunity to avoid future appearances (for, like, five episodes anyway). The catch? McGee has to go three games without doing something worthy of making the lowlight reel. "JaVale McGree, if you go three games without making a mistake, I'll leave you off for the next five episodes," Shaq told his co-hosts. While it seems like a reasonable proposition, at least two-thirds of the desk opposite of Shaq didn't think it was likely. "That's hard for him," Kenny Smith said. "He's going to make one." Ernie Johnson also chimed in by adding "I'm not betting on him." Though they did give him props by adding "He's been playing great basketball." Here, check it out below: Your move, JaVale... pic.twitter.com/8eXjDdT8yW As you can see there's not a lot of faith on that set. Anyway, all we can say is best of luck, JaVale.

Warriors center JaVale McGee isn't a bad player, per say. But his semi-frequent appearances on Shaqtin' A Fool can often make him look like one. Case in point:

In fact, McGee's recurring clips on Shaq's segment got so repetitious that before this season the 28-year-old big man told The Mercury News his feelings about being constantly featured in the blooper reel. "Fans think it’s real, like that’s real life and they think I’m a dumb person," he said, back in October. "It’s just really disappointing that grown men, 50, 40 year olds are having America’s funniest home videos of a player. And then making it a hashtag and really just trying to ruin someone’s career over basketball mistakes."

Flash forward to Thursday night, where Shaq is apparently giving McGee an opportunity to avoid future appearances (for, like, five episodes anyway). The catch? McGee has to go three games without doing something worthy of making the lowlight reel.

"JaVale McGree, if you go three games without making a mistake, I'll leave you off Shaqtin' A Fool for the next five episodes," Shaq told his Inside the NBA co-hosts. While it seems like a reasonable proposition, at least two-thirds of the desk opposite of Shaq didn't think it was likely. "That's hard for him," Kenny Smith said. "He's going to make one." Ernie Johnson also chimed in by adding "I'm not betting on him." Though they did give him props by adding "He's been playing great basketball."

Here, check it out below:

As you can see there's not a lot of faith on that set. Anyway, all we can say is best of luck, JaVale.