Second Jane Austen £5 note 'worth £50,000' found in Christmas card
Second Jane Austen £5 note 'worth £50,000' found in Christmas card
£5 note engraved with a tiny portrait of Jane Austen and said to be worth up to £50,000 has been found in a Christmas card in Scotland. The recipient in the Scottish Borders, who wishes to remain anonymous, is said to have checked the present from a loved one “on the off chance” and discovered that it was one of the rare notes. The new owner  has decided to keep the note, frame it and hang it on their wall. They received the note in a Christmas card from a relative in the same area, who thought they were including an ordinary £5. It was the second of four special notes to be discovered that feature art by specialist micro-engraver Graham Short. Each image of the author is surrounded by a unique quote from some of Austen's most celebrated novels, including , and . Anyone who finds one of the notes is urged to contact the Tony Huggins-Haig Gallery in Kelso, Roxburghshire, which launched the project. r Huggins-Haig spent one of the notes in Granny Jean's bakery in Kelso on December 5 to start the project, triggering a huge surge in custom when he revealed the move days later. Head baker Alan Malone said he was "gutted" to have inadvertently given it away in change. The first note to be discovered was handed over in change from a café in south Wales earlier this month, with the recipient also intending to keep it rather than sell it. Two more special £5 notes, spent in England and Northern Ireland, remain in general circulation. They bear the serial numbers AM32 885552 and AM32 885554. Mr Huggins-Haig said the latest finder, who works in education, has been to the gallery to have the note verified. He said: "They are completely delighted to have it and it's getting framed and going on the wall. "They were given it in a Christmas card by a relative and they are delighted as well because they didn't know that's what they were putting in the card - they knew it was a £5 but not one that could be worth £50,000. "Of the two that have been found, both are with people who want to keep them as art. They've both been found by wonderful people who are very deserving.” r Short, from Birmingham, came up with the idea of engraving a 5mm portrait of Jane Austen on the transparent part of the new plastic Bank of England £5 notes to mark the 200th anniversary of her death next year. He said: "I don't know whether I'm disappointed that they haven't wanted to sell them because I wanted them to have some money for Christmas, but the fact that they are so happy to keep them, that's nice as well."

A £5 note engraved with a tiny portrait of Jane Austen and said to be worth up to £50,000 has been found in a Christmas card in Scotland.

The recipient in the Scottish Borders, who wishes to remain anonymous, is said to have checked the present from a loved one “on the off chance” and discovered that it was one of the rare notes.

The new owner has decided to keep the note, frame it and hang it on their wall. They received the note in a Christmas card from a relative in the same area, who thought they were including an ordinary £5.

It was the second of four special notes to be discovered that feature art by specialist micro-engraver Graham Short. Each image of the author is surrounded by a unique quote from some of Austen's most celebrated novels, including Pride and Prejudice, Emma and Mansfield Park.

Anyone who finds one of the notes is urged to contact the Tony Huggins-Haig Gallery in Kelso, Roxburghshire, which launched the project.