The great outdoors: readers share their best weather photos from 2016

and    t’s been a another stunning year for weather photography and readers have been sharing their most striking shots throughout the year from across the world. From bitterly cold winter scenes to sunlit beach memories, here’s a selection of the landscapes you’ve enjoyed capturing this year. Post Blizzard - Lorenzo, Texas, January I took this photograph 10 miles south of our family cotton farm in Lorenzo, Texas using a Canon 7D camera and Tokina 11-16mm lens. I grew up here and travel back to visit every year for the holidays. It snows in this part of Texas but I never remember it snowing this much before. I’ve been to New York on many occasions but never visited the coast line of Coney Island. New York was just recovering from a snow storm so I jumped on the subway and checked this town out. I took this picture with my iPhone 6. In my bag I had my Olympus Trip 35 film camera and a Nikon D800, but for street shots I usually just use my phone. Sometimes you can’t beat using it as a camera, especially if the light is kind. This was taken from the footpath that runs alongside Langsett Reservoir, managed and very well-maintained by Yorkshire Water and on the very edge of the Peak District National Park. I am fortunate enough to live around four miles from the reservoir and it is one of my favourite year-round circular walks leading past waterfalls and up into wild moorland, finishing up at the Wagon and Horses Inn for some real ale, pies and chips. I love the beautiful muted colours on an afternoon stroll in the spring sunshine. It was an amazingly still, spring day with barely a ripple on the water. I was experimenting with my new, lightweight Fuji X-T1 and a 35 mm F1.4 lens. This was a hand-held shot and I had to scramble down a bank to get a clear view as surrounding trees lining the footpath encroached on my first attempts. Burnham-on-Sea - Somerset, April This is the lower lighthouse on the north side of the beach at Burnham-On-Sea. We spend a lot of time walking along the beach in all weather as its a perfect place for walking our seven month old Cockapoo Fudge. Sunsets along the beach are always stunning, as such its our favourite time of day to go for a walk. My eight-year-old daughter Poppy took the picture on a Cannon EOS 11OOD using an 18-55mm lens. I’m the one doing the cartwheel. I live in Whitehaven which is about 12 miles away from Gallows Hill near Gosforth in west Cumbria. I often walk in that area. There are a few lonnings (country lanes) in that area which are particularly pleasant to walk. This was one path I’d not been down before, but as soon as I reached the top of the hill and the landscape dropped down through the sunken lane to the farm, I knew it would make a superb picture. The macabre history of the hill apparently being used for public hangings in medieval times seemed to add to the atmosphere of the picture too. ‘Yellow daze’ - Cheltenham, May I was walking a route I do many times with my black Labrador Merlin, when the yellow of the oil seed rape flowers bloomed from a field just off a busy road. There is a public footpath through the field so this was the path we took that day. It had been quite a dull day in May, but the colours of the flowers were stunning and brought a warm and sunny feel with them. Blackstone Edge Reservoir - Rochdale, May This is a shot from my daily commute home by bike from Manchester to Hebden Bridge. I was training for a 4,500km MTB race in Canada from Banff to the Mexican border with the USA at the time. It was taken with a Sony RX100 Mk1. It pretty much lives in my pocket all the time as carrying a Leica around on a bike is not so smart. This was taken on Bardsea Beach during the school holidays. The weather was a surprise to us, as this was the week in June where the whole of the UK was bombarded with rain apart from the Lake District which was protected by the Pennines and was very warm and sunny. I used a Nikon d3100 with at 35mm lens. I visited Albania for the first time this year, and this was my favourite holiday snap. I love the contrast between the wispy cloud, the sillhouetted people and the graffiti on the wall. We were driving on a spectacular coastal road along what they now call the Albanian Riviera. The camera was my rather retro little Nikon Coolpix p7000 which I love. Marsden Bay lies just north of Sunderland about nine miles away from my home in Seaham Harbour, County Durham. I often have a stroll there with my camera. That morning I was enjoying a coffee at the Marsden Grotto overlooking the beach, when I saw two men pushing their bikes to fish from the shore. There had been a mist for a few days but on that day the mist had disappeared leaving a beautiful sunny morning. Astoria, Queens - New York, July I had recently moved to Astoria in Queens NY. It was my first time visiting that particular area. It was a particularly hot summer day, and there was an hour long queue to get into the pool as it was at full capacity. I live in Portsmouth, the UK’s only island city. You are never far from the sea. I regularly take a walk along the seafront especially in the summer, when the daylight lasts well into the evening. On this particular day I noticed a new structure off shore that I hadn’t seen before - a post that will hold navigation lights for large aircraft carriers in the Solent. It was a beautifully still day with a calm sea and the sun was low on the horizon. The contrasting colours of the sea and sky were stunning. I used a tripod to keep my Nikon DSLR camera steady for a 13 second exposure. Since then several more of these navigation posts have appeared as new features in a constantly changing Solent. I moved to New Zealand three years ago. I go up to the lake a few times a year as it’s on the way to Aoraki Mount Cook. I took this picture in August when my mother and step father were visiting NZ for the first time and I was showing them around. Cloud inversions are quite common on New Zealand’s big lakes in the winter. We hit the fog about 20 minutes before the lake and I was really worried my folks weren’t going to be able to see Aoraki. We created a rise a little further round the shore and broke out of the cloud to this beautiful view with the classics turquoise colours of the lakes in full splendour. Late winter sees fog rolling off the glacier lakes and rivers, filling up the Mackenzie Country basin. Luckily for my sightseeing parents, we emerged from it coming around the edge of Lake Pukaki and were greeted by this beautiful symphony of winter colours. Aldeburgh - Suffolk, September This was taken on the Suffolk coast in Aldeburgh, looking out to sea after the sun had set behind me. Using a Canon 6D, with a 24-70mm lens at 42mm f/16 ISO100 for 72 seconds, I attempted to capture in a long exposure of just over a minute the wondrous lustrous light and the particular stillness in the sea that evening. Fly Agarics - The Hague, Netherlands, October Close to the former Queen’s Palace at Haagse Bos in the city of The Hague, there is a small piece of woodland with a majestic beech lane. It’s a public park near a residential area. Fly agarics are quite rare in our region, but this is one of the few spots I know of where they can appear. At first it was too dry for them to surface, but finally the rain came and they popped up immediately. So I got out my Panasonic Lumix DMC-TZ30 and my bike, and set off from my home in Voorschoten. I was duly rewarded with this photo. There were so many of them this year. It was a sight to behold. Grangemouth - Stirlingshire, October We’d been having some nice sunsets that week and on this particular October evening I grabbed my camera and headed out. The air was absolutely still and the vapour rising from the refinery over in Grangemouth had been hanging around in the sky for hours like this. Just as the sun was setting this vapour cloud lit up and, in combination with another serendipitous cloud that appeared, turned the evening sky into something quite apocalyptic looking. Our dog Florrie gets walked two or three times a day and during the week it tends to be in the local park. But at the weekend we like to use the extra time to give a bit of variety, so we popped across south Manchester to Chorlton where you can get to the banks of the Mersey. While fog isn’t a shock in November, it’s not the most common weather phenomenon and can be tricky to capture in a photo. I just thought this was a nice moment to get the iPhone out and have a go because of the yellow leaves and Florrie’s apparently curious stance. In reality she would have been checking for squirrel activity. The fog accentuates the relaxing solitude that can be had on a long dog walk. Little Chesterford - Essex, December We were just finishing up in the garden when the mist appeared. I took my Canon EOS 40D with 24-105 lens and walked into the meadow beside the church, where a horse wandered in front of the setting sun. The mist, unusual in the evening, appeared suddenly and was gone just as quickly 30 minutes later. Kingston-upon-Thames - London, December I took this while cycling to work one morning. It was colder than usual and we’d had lots of frost and fog. I brought my Canon 5d and 28-300mm lens on this day as I thought I’d get some wonderful early morning shots along the Thames. I was right. Topics  Weather   US weather   Australia weather

It’s been a another stunning year for weather photography and readers have been sharing their most striking shots throughout the year from across the world. From bitterly cold winter scenes to sunlit beach memories, here’s a selection of the landscapes you’ve enjoyed capturing this year.

Post Blizzard - Lorenzo, Texas, January

I took this photograph 10 miles south of our family cotton farm in Lorenzo, Texas using a Canon 7D camera and Tokina 11-16mm lens. I grew up here and travel back to visit every year for the holidays. It snows in this part of Texas but I never remember it snowing this much before. Cory Aycock

Coney Island - New York City, February

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Coney Island - NYC

After the snow storm two weeks ago

Photograph: Robin Pope/ GuardianWitness

I’ve been to New York on many occasions but never visited the coast line of Coney Island. New York was just recovering from a snow storm so I jumped on the subway and checked this town out. I took this picture with my iPhone 6. In my bag I had my Olympus Trip 35 film camera and a Nikon D800, but for street shots I usually just use my phone. Sometimes you can’t beat using it as a camera, especially if the light is kind. Robin Pope

Langsett Reservoir - Peak District, March

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Still Waters at Langsett Reservoir in the Peak District

Photograph: Carole Tidball/GuardianWitness

This was taken from the footpath that runs alongside Langsett Reservoir, managed and very well-maintained by Yorkshire Water and on the very edge of the Peak District National Park. I am fortunate enough to live around four miles from the reservoir and it is one of my favourite year-round circular walks leading past waterfalls and up into wild moorland, finishing up at the Wagon and Horses Inn for some real ale, pies and chips. I love the beautiful muted colours on an afternoon stroll in the spring sunshine.

It was an amazingly still, spring day with barely a ripple on the water. I was experimenting with my new, lightweight Fuji X-T1 and a 35 mm F1.4 lens. This was a hand-held shot and I had to scramble down a bank to get a clear view as surrounding trees lining the footpath encroached on my first attempts. Carole Tidball

Burnham-on-Sea - Somerset, April

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A Perfect Sunday Evening On Burnham Beach

Photograph: Vicky Harris/GuardianWitness

This is the lower lighthouse on the north side of the beach at Burnham-On-Sea. We spend a lot of time walking along the beach in all weather as its a perfect place for walking our seven month old Cockapoo Fudge. Sunsets along the beach are always stunning, as such its our favourite time of day to go for a walk. My eight-year-old daughter Poppy took the picture on a Cannon EOS 11OOD using an 18-55mm lens. I’m the one doing the cartwheel. Vicky Harris

Gallows Hill - west Cumbria, April

I live in Whitehaven which is about 12 miles away from Gallows Hill near Gosforth in west Cumbria. I often walk in that area. There are a few lonnings (country lanes) in that area which are particularly pleasant to walk. This was one path I’d not been down before, but as soon as I reached the top of the hill and the landscape dropped down through the sunken lane to the farm, I knew it would make a superb picture. The macabre history of the hill apparently being used for public hangings in medieval times seemed to add to the atmosphere of the picture too. Alan Cleaver

‘Yellow daze’ - Cheltenham, May

I was walking a route I do many times with my black Labrador Merlin, when the yellow of the oil seed rape flowers bloomed from a field just off a busy road. There is a public footpath through the field so this was the path we took that day. It had been quite a dull day in May, but the colours of the flowers were stunning and brought a warm and sunny feel with them. Susanne Quinn

Blackstone Edge Reservoir - Rochdale, May

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Blackstone Reservoir

Finally starting to dry out up above the Calder Valley

Photograph: Greg May/GuardianWitness

This is a shot from my daily commute home by bike from Manchester to Hebden Bridge. I was training for a 4,500km MTB race in Canada from Banff to the Mexican border with the USA at the time. It was taken with a Sony RX100 Mk1. It pretty much lives in my pocket all the time as carrying a Leica around on a bike is not so smart. Greg May

Bardsea Beach - Lake District, June

This was taken on Bardsea Beach during the school holidays. The weather was a surprise to us, as this was the week in June where the whole of the UK was bombarded with rain apart from the Lake District which was protected by the Pennines and was very warm and sunny. I used a Nikon d3100 with at 35mm lens. Tom McMahon

Albanian Riviera - Albania, June

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Cloud and grafitti on the Albania Riviera

Photograph: Penelope Farmer/GuardianWitness

I visited Albania for the first time this year, and this was my favourite holiday snap. I love the contrast between the wispy cloud, the sillhouetted people and the graffiti on the wall. We were driving on a spectacular coastal road along what they now call the Albanian Riviera. The camera was my rather retro little Nikon Coolpix p7000 which I love. Penelope Farmer

Marsden Bay- South Shields, June

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Marsden Bay, South Shields

Anglers make the most of a rare sunny day

Photograph: Anne Stancliffe/GuardianWitness

Marsden Bay lies just north of Sunderland about nine miles away from my home in Seaham Harbour, County Durham. I often have a stroll there with my camera. That morning I was enjoying a coffee at the Marsden Grotto overlooking the beach, when I saw two men pushing their bikes to fish from the shore. There had been a mist for a few days but on that day the mist had disappeared leaving a beautiful sunny morning. Anne Stancliffe

Astoria, Queens - New York, July

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Cooling off in NY

Astoria, Queens pool on a steaming hot Sunday

Photograph: Jana Pejkovska/GuardianWitness

I had recently moved to Astoria in Queens NY. It was my first time visiting that particular area. It was a particularly hot summer day, and there was an hour long queue to get into the pool as it was at full capacity. Jana Pejkovska

The Solent - Portsmouth, August

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A calm and balmy evening on the Solent

The sun sets on a calm and balmy evening in the Solent

Photograph: Jon Neil/GuardianWitness

I live in Portsmouth, the UK’s only island city. You are never far from the sea. I regularly take a walk along the seafront especially in the summer, when the daylight lasts well into the evening. On this particular day I noticed a new structure off shore that I hadn’t seen before - a post that will hold navigation lights for large aircraft carriers in the Solent.

It was a beautifully still day with a calm sea and the sun was low on the horizon. The contrasting colours of the sea and sky were stunning. I used a tripod to keep my Nikon DSLR camera steady for a 13 second exposure. Since then several more of these navigation posts have appeared as new features in a constantly changing Solent. Jon Neil

Lake Pukaki - New Zealand, August

I moved to New Zealand three years ago. I go up to the lake a few times a year as it’s on the way to Aoraki Mount Cook. I took this picture in August when my mother and step father were visiting NZ for the first time and I was showing them around.

Cloud inversions are quite common on New Zealand’s big lakes in the winter. We hit the fog about 20 minutes before the lake and I was really worried my folks weren’t going to be able to see Aoraki.

We created a rise a little further round the shore and broke out of the cloud to this beautiful view with the classics turquoise colours of the lakes in full splendour. Late winter sees fog rolling off the glacier lakes and rivers, filling up the Mackenzie Country basin. Luckily for my sightseeing parents, we emerged from it coming around the edge of Lake Pukaki and were greeted by this beautiful symphony of winter colours. Rose Hanley-Nickolls

Aldeburgh - Suffolk, September

This was taken on the Suffolk coast in Aldeburgh, looking out to sea after the sun had set behind me. Using a Canon 6D, with a 24-70mm lens at 42mm f/16 ISO100 for 72 seconds, I attempted to capture in a long exposure of just over a minute the wondrous lustrous light and the particular stillness in the sea that evening. Phillip Edwards

Fly Agarics - The Hague, Netherlands, October

Facebook Twitter Pinterest These beautiful fly agarics emerged soon after the rain

Photograph: Gerrie Stegehuis/GuardianWitness

Close to the former Queen’s Palace at Haagse Bos in the city of The Hague, there is a small piece of woodland with a majestic beech lane. It’s a public park near a residential area. Fly agarics are quite rare in our region, but this is one of the few spots I know of where they can appear. At first it was too dry for them to surface, but finally the rain came and they popped up immediately. So I got out my Panasonic Lumix DMC-TZ30 and my bike, and set off from my home in

Voorschoten. I was duly rewarded with this photo. There were so many of them this year. It was a sight to behold. Gerrie Stegehuis

Grangemouth - Stirlingshire, October

We’d been having some nice sunsets that week and on this particular October evening I grabbed my camera and headed out. The air was absolutely still and the vapour rising from the refinery over in Grangemouth had been hanging around in the sky for hours like this. Just as the sun was setting this vapour cloud lit up and, in combination with another serendipitous cloud that appeared, turned the evening sky into something quite apocalyptic looking. Brian Smith



Chorlton Meadows - south Manchester, November

Our dog Florrie gets walked two or three times a day and during the week it tends to be in the local park. But at the weekend we like to use the extra time to give a bit of variety, so we popped across south Manchester to Chorlton where you can get to the banks of the Mersey. While fog isn’t a shock in November, it’s not the most common weather phenomenon and can be tricky to capture in a photo. I just thought this was a nice moment to get the iPhone out and have a go because of the yellow leaves and Florrie’s apparently curious stance. In reality she would have been checking for squirrel activity. The fog accentuates the relaxing solitude that can be had on a long dog walk. Stuart Fear



Little Chesterford - Essex, December

We were just finishing up in the garden when the mist appeared. I took my Canon EOS 40D with 24-105 lens and walked into the meadow beside the church, where a horse wandered in front of the setting sun. The mist, unusual in the evening, appeared suddenly and was gone just as quickly 30 minutes later. Gerard Clinton

Kingston-upon-Thames - London, December

I took this while cycling to work one morning. It was colder than usual and we’d had lots of frost and fog. I brought my Canon 5d and 28-300mm lens on this day as I thought I’d get some wonderful early morning shots along the Thames. I was right. Gareth Logue