Bomb Threat Forces Emergency Airplane Landing in Prague
Bomb Threat Forces Emergency Airplane Landing in Prague
Prague Airport A bomb threat forced a flight carrying 168 people from Las Palmas, Spain to Warsaw to make an emergency landing in Prague, Interior Minister Milan Chovanec said. Czech police took the suspect who allegedly made the threat on Friday, identified by Chovanec as a Polish citizen, into custody. All passengers on the flight, a charter from the Polish company Enter Air, were being evacuated and were doing well, Chovanec said during a live briefing on Czech television. Most of the passengers are European Union citizens. The minister wouldn’t say whether authorities had found an explosive device because a search and investigation were ongoing. He said the incident wasn’t a terrorist act and, according to initial information, the suspect wasn’t under the influence of alcohol or other substances. Regular traffic at the Vaclav Havel Airport Prague wasn’t affected, Chovanec said, adding that this is the first such incident at the airport in 10 years. The plane is expected to resume its journey on Saturday, he said.

A bomb threat forced a flight carrying 168 people from Las Palmas, Spain to Warsaw to make an emergency landing in Prague, Interior Minister Milan Chovanec said.

Czech police took the suspect who allegedly made the threat on Friday, identified by Chovanec as a Polish citizen, into custody. All passengers on the flight, a charter from the Polish company Enter Air, were being evacuated and were doing well, Chovanec said during a live briefing on Czech television. Most of the passengers are European Union citizens.

The minister wouldn’t say whether authorities had found an explosive device because a search and investigation were ongoing. He said the incident wasn’t a terrorist act and, according to initial information, the suspect wasn’t under the influence of alcohol or other substances.

Regular traffic at the Vaclav Havel Airport Prague wasn’t affected, Chovanec said, adding that this is the first such incident at the airport in 10 years. The plane is expected to resume its journey on Saturday, he said.