Father embraces driver accused of hitting and killing his son on Christmas Day



Father embraces driver accused of hitting and killing his son on Christmas Day

Updated

The father of a boy killed after he was hit by a vehicle on Christmas Day has embraced the man charged over his death, and extended him an offer of forgiveness.

Josiah Sisson, 9, died in hospital on Tuesday from horrific injuries sustained in the crash, which happened on Sunday evening when he was out in Springwood, south of Brisbane, looking at Christmas lights with his friends.

Police said the accused driver, Adrian Murray, took a corner too quickly and lost control of his dual cab ute, hitting a parked car and then Josiah.

The out-of-control ute then crashed into a house.

Murray, 24, was charged yesterday with one count each of dangerous operation of a vehicle causing death whilst adversely affected by an intoxicating substance and driving a motor vehicle whilst under the influence.

The night before being charged he met with the boy's father, pastor Karl Sisson, at a prayer service after being invited to attend.

Photos of Pastor Sisson embracing Murray were today released by family friend Peter Field, who is also a pastor.

He said they were taken by a church member.

"To be honest I found them [the photos] confronting and challenging to me personally," he said.

"The driver saw Pastor Karl Sisson, he turned around and saw him and actually just collapsed into his arms in a complete emotional breakdown.

"We all like to talk about philosophical things but when you really are faced with that in reality, I think it is extremely powerful and extremely challenging.

"This has definitely been a test of what we preach and what we believe."

Pastor Field said while Josiah's parents had extended an offer of forgiveness, they were still struggling with their son's loss.

"Rollercoaster would be the correct answer, especially the poor boy's mother; it'll be a long time working this through," he said.

"I did spend some time with them yesterday and they were a little better spirited but I think by last night they crashed again and this is going to take some time."

Josiah's funeral will be held next week at the Potter's House Church in Strathpine on Brisbane's northside.

Murray will appear in court on February 14.

Topics: community-and-society, crime, law-crime-and-justice, brisbane-4000

First posted