Top 50 EDM Love Songs of All Time
Top 50 EDM Love Songs of All Time
Top 50 EDM Love Songs of All Time  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Listen to the top 50 EDM love songs of all time -- the best music from dance artists Axwell to Daft Punk and many more. Axwell's first solo release post-Swedish House Mafia is a feel-good affair with endearing lyrics and uplifting melodies. "We're the center of the universe. Just you and I, and I, and I." Dash Berlin's tear-jerking trance touch elevates the original's soothing vocal. "And all this aching will disappear when this night is done. And when you speak, it's the only voice I will hear. You are the one." Simple and seductive, this classic vocal cut can still tug the heartstrings. : "I'll repeat this phrase through all my days. With my last breath, only you."  This festival staple on Steve Angello's SIZE Records caught many ears in 2012 with its lush production and memorable refrain. "And I feel what you feel. And I feel what you do. And I feel like I'm falling into you."  Dispense with the pleasantries -- the Dutch artist's straightforward tech house rework is a time-tested floor-filler thanks to killer sampling by Thomas Bangalter and DJ Falcon. "I have so much love to give."  Don't sleep on s opener -- Wild Belle's wistful hook is an instant earworm. "Maybe if the stars align, maybe if our worlds collide. Maybe on the dark side, we could be together."  The British artist's dance club hit broadcasts an empowering message that recalls the classic "Show Me Love." "You're that special someone who makes me want to give it."  Australia's fast rising trap queen assumes both vocal and production duties on this high-octane ode to desire. "Just give me one look. I want you."  The then-emerging Swede bouyed Nadia Ali's most successful solo release into a festival favorite with this soaring rework. "Mi amore, don't you know. My love I want you so. Sugar you make my soul complete. Rapture tastes so sweet."  Many a trance family heart has exploded during this song's serene vocal breakdown. "When there’s nowhere left to run, run with me. Let the moment be a sanctuary."  The London dubstep super-trio's (Skream, Benga and Artwork) infectious first single explores how love can be simultaneously intoxicating and smothering. "Now I'm drowning in your ocean, and I’m running and feeling like I don't care. You penetrate my space and now you're looking outta place. Cause you make this hard for me -- I need air."  Kaskade's four-piece house outfit hit its stride on this contemplative street-lit ballad. "If this love's not meant to be. If the heart's not ready to open. If we make it, I won't see how it's broken."  This fan favorite is a cautionary reminder to always express one's true feelings set over a euphoric trance beat. "There's a thing called love that we all forget. And it's a wasted love that we all regret. You live your life just once. So don't forget, forget about a thing called love."  One of Tiësto's most underrated tunes received an even less-heralded remix from Wolfgang Gartner that has actually held up better than the original. "When the big world falls apart, and you think that the feeling will linger. You need somewhere to start. I will be here."  Before he was Avicii, the Swedish artist was known as Tim Berg -- and this hit single was his introduction to the dance world. "I will give to you the love you seek and more. So what are you waiting for?"  The rising Dutch star topped the U.K. singles chart after Becky Hill channeled feelings of overwhelming attraction over his high-octane instrumental. "I can't stop this feeling. baby. Only you can make me come alive. When we're crashing, let's have passion. Boy, you've got my heart on overdrive."  Jamie Jones, Lee Foss and Ali Love hit the U.K. Top 40 in 2012 with this smooth vocal house number. "Feel like my love, feel like my love has found a home. I feel like our love has found a home. Benediction in my mind, benediction in my heart and soul."  Gorgon City's most commercially successful single explores cathartic renewal against a catchy house backdrop. "I'm ready for the rain to pour down on me. I'm ready for a change to come and set me free. I'm ready for my loss to become victory. But most of all, most of all, I'm ready for your love."  Duke Dumont's smash single is a feel-good anthem that casts off materalistic concerns for a cherished connection. "Ask me what I did with my life, I spent it with you. If I lose my fame and fortune, really don't matter. As long as I got you, baby."  The tropical house star has many loving reworks, but his buoyant take on Gaye's standard is arguably his most electric. "And when I get that feeling, I want sexual healing. Sexual healing is good for me."  Porter Robinson tested the deeper waters that would eventually produce his sprawling LP with this sentimental fan-favorite in 2012. "Give me release. Let the waves of time and space surround me. Yeah, 'cause I need room to breathe. Let me float back to the place you found me. I'll be okay."  The Santa Barbara producer's opening salvo on OWSLA was a mesmerizing and melodic dubstep gem that explores love and longing in mythical terms. "Quietly I keep you close to me. Quietly I feel you when I'm dreaming."  Galantis' beautifully produced ballad brings the chills every time. "Keep coming down that street. There’s a hollow in this house whenever you go."  There's nothing sensual about Skrillex's crushing dubstep drop, but the verses that precede it are proven heart-warmers. "I could watch you for a lifetime. You're my favorite movie. A thousand endings. You mean everything to me."  This haunting tale of nighttime seduction features ethereal atmospherics and outstanding songwriting. "Cold, I swam into your spell. On the rite of god we fell. You were plush and I laid bare. You had me howling. Cold, I fell into your skin. On the night you led me under your sin. You had me howling."  Harris' fifth Top 40 single is raw, straightforward and effective in imparting its message. Loving Lyrics: "I need your love. I need your time. When everything's wrong, you make it right. I feel so high. I come alive. I need to be free with you tonight."  Avicii's sweeping rework made it into his 2010 and onto festival stages across the globe. "'Cause it feels like I'm right for the first time. And every time I take you in, I feel my heart skip a beat again. I'm drowning in your love."  Lilting voices rise with the love they describe over scratchy synths and stuttered sweeps on the opener from the British duo's excellent 2010 album This tune also made a memorable cameo in the 2011 documentary. "Your love keeps lifting me. Your love keeps lifting me. Lifting me higher. Lifting me higher."  The U.K. artist's hit single is an enduring anthem of appreciation. "We've come a long long way together, through the hard times and the good. I have to celebrate you, baby. I have to praise you like I should."  Harris takes to the mic on his second top 40 single for uplifting verses on the indomitable power of mutual attraction. "I feel so close to you right now, it's a force field. I wear my heart upon my sleeve, like a big deal. Your love pours down on me, surrounds me like a waterfall. And there's no stopping us right now. I feel so close to you right now."  A staple of Kaskade's 2010 sets, this song is about as rosy and rousing as it gets. "I won't let go. My body shows. You're everything I need. Won't you stay mine. From dawn till night. To live our fantasy. I'm in love, I wanna do it."  2011's indisputable EDM song of the summer (and perhaps the year) became practically inescapable and helped propel Alesso's burgeoning career to new heights. "Come around, feel the sound. Boy, you make my heart pound. Fill me up, bring me down. When I hear your sound."  's first single features a chord progression Zedd describes as capturing the "feeling and tension, unpredictability and the unknown," as well as an epic extraterrestrial music video. "We'll run where lights won't chase us. Hide where love can save us. I will never let you go."  Top-shelf songwriting, peerless production and an irresistible hook. Galantis at their best. "Think I can fly, think I can fly when I'm with you. My arms are wide, catching fire as the wind blows. I know that I'm rich enough for pride, I see a billion dollars in your eyes. Even if we’re strangers til we die."  Layering sappy (yet satisfying) vocals over his original "Penguin" instrumental, Avicii delivers the EDM equivalent of "I Will Follow You Into the Dark." "Looking up, there's always sky. Rest your head, I'll take you high. We won't fade into darkness. Won't let you fade into darkness."  This standout single became Coachella 2012's Sahara Tent soundtrack with its thoughtful lyrics and powerful synth-driven drop. "Maybe heaven right now is a devil or angel away. That won't change. Together we vow that our colors will sparkle the faith. And I will find you. I will find you. I will reach you. Or I, I, I will lose my mind."  Resurrected as the encore for Daft Punk's legendary "Alive 2007" tour, the one song produced by Thomas Bangalter's super-group was an unimpeachable club hit. "Ooh baby I feel right. The music sounds better with you. Love might bring us both together. I feel so good."  The robots deliver delightfully vocoded musings on inconvenient love on this timeless cut. "It might not be the right time. I might not be the right one. But there's something about us, I want to say. 'Cause there's something between us anyway."  The Danish artist's nine-minute confessional is simultaneously melancholy, melodic and mesmerizing. "All that matters is where you lay your head. All I care about is that you're always safe."  The French superstar's Grammy Award-winning single explores love's overwhelming power through a pop radio-friendly prism. "When love takes over, yeah. You know you can't deny. When love takes over, yeah. 'Cause something's here tonight."  Ask 10 Skrillex fans what this song means and you'll get 10 different answers. Sampling a distorted vocal from early cut "I Wish You All The Luck Of The World," this emotionally charged epic needs no explanation. "Bye bye. That's all. Bye. Thank you. I like you. We love you. See you next time. Bye. Miss you."  With three entries on this list (and many more that could have made the cut), Kaskade's clearly a charmer -- and this first single off his 2011 album may be his most affectionate to date. "You and I could paint the sky together. As the world goes by, we'll go on forever. Look into my eyes."  The then-trio's top 40 breakthrough was a rare rave anthem that seamlessly crossed over into commercial radio standout. "All alone, just the beat inside my soul. Take me home, where my dreams are made of gold. In the zone where the beat is uncontrolled. I know what it feels like. Come on, make me feel alive."  The longest-running No. 1 single of 2011 elevated Harris to the ranks of EDM's elite with strong songwriting and a show-stopping delivery from Rihanna. "Yellow diamonds in the light. Now we’re standing side by side. As your shadow crosses mine. What it takes to come alive."  Likely Alesso's finest moment as a remixer, this main stage-sized take on OneRepublic's reflective ballad is a melodic masterpiece. "If I lose myself tonight, it'll be by your side. If I lose myself tonight, it'll be you and I."  This heartfelt love song launched two marquee-sized careers and stole hearts across the world from the first listen. "I feel we’re close enough, could I lock in your love? Now I’ve got you in my space, I won’t let go of you. Got you shackled in my embrace, I’m latching on to you."  Evocative yet accessible lyrics and top-notch production rendered "Clarity" a ubiquitous radio heavyweight following its 2012 release. "''Cause you are the piece of me I wish I didn't need. Chasing relentlessly, still fight and I don't know why. If our love is tragedy, why are you my remedy? If our love's insanity, why are you my clarity?  Thanks to its timeless "bruised-but-unbowed" narrative, Robin S.’s classic may have been remixed and remade more than any other house song. "So baby if you want me, you’ve got to show me love. Words are so easy to say, oh ah yeah. You’ve got to show me love."  Defined by an enduring and unmistakable chord progression, "I Remember" finds the artists at their most mature and memorable. "Add to the memory you keep. Remember when you fall asleep. Hold to the love that you know. You don't have to give up to let go."  An immortal classic about dreamt love and longing. It’s only fitting that the French trailblazers top this list. "Oh, I don't know what to do. About this dream and you. I wish this dream comes true."   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

47. Third Party vs. Cicada - "Fe...

47. Third Party vs. Cicada - "Feel" (2012)

This festival staple on Steve Angello's SIZE Records caught many ears in 2012 with its lush production and memorable refrain.

Loving Lyrics: "And I feel what you feel. And I feel what you do. And I feel like I'm falling into you."