'Clean Sleeping' Is Expected To Be The Biggest Health Rage Of 2017
'Clean Sleeping' Is Expected To Be The Biggest Health Rage Of 2017
'Clean Sleeping' Is Expected To Be The Biggest Health Rage Of 2017 Do you often feel irritated and anxious? Blame it on the lifestyle we have these days. If you get easily frustrated, forgetful and can’t cope with stress, it could be possible that you are not getting enough good quality sleep. So what is 'Clean Sleeping'? Clean sleep actually means getting at least seven to eight hours of sound sleep. What does it do for you? A good night's sleep allows your body to detox and repair itself. Lack of sleep can affect your life in a very negative way, causing things such as weight gain which can lead to tiredness and stress. Good sleep plays a major role in determining your appetite and energy levels. Getting a good night's sleep should be on top of your priority list - more than even your diet. How do you ensure clean sleep? The answer to clean sleep lies in yoga nidra. You can learn this online or can try the following steps yourself: 1) Lie down and close your eyes 2) Try to concentrate on individual parts of your body in relatively quick succession 3) Think of them in a circular motion going from one hand up — each finger one by one — to your palm, wrist and forearm, elbow, upper arm, shoulder, neck, face and down the other arm to your face, then back down the other arm and across your torso, down one leg and up the other. Meditating like this takes your body and brain to a point that is close to sleep, with all its healing benefits. This apart, the following habits will help you sleep better. Say no to bedtime munching This will prevent the digestive process from disturbing your sleep. This is because the body won't slip into deep-detox mode until about eight hours after the last meal and then it needs about four more hours of undisturbed sleep to do its job properly. Try a head massage

Do you often feel irritated and anxious? Blame it on the lifestyle we have these days. If you get easily frustrated, forgetful and can’t cope with stress, it could be possible that you are not getting enough good quality sleep.

So what is 'Clean Sleeping'?

yimg.com

Clean sleep actually means getting at least seven to eight hours of sound sleep.

What does it do for you?

www.rycomusa.com

A good night's sleep allows your body to detox and repair itself. Lack of sleep can affect your life in a very negative way, causing things such as weight gain which can lead to tiredness and stress. Good sleep plays a major role in determining your appetite and energy levels. Getting a good night's sleep should be on top of your priority list - more than even your diet.

How do you ensure clean sleep?

livinglightyoga.com

The answer to clean sleep lies in yoga nidra. You can learn this online or can try the following steps yourself:

1) Lie down and close your eyes

2) Try to concentrate on individual parts of your body in relatively quick succession

3) Think of them in a circular motion going from one hand up — each finger one by one — to your palm, wrist and forearm, elbow, upper arm, shoulder, neck, face and down the other arm to your face, then back down the other arm and across your torso, down one leg and up the other.

Meditating like this takes your body and brain to a point that is close to sleep, with all its healing benefits. This apart, the following habits will help you sleep better.

Say no to bedtime munching

amazonaws.com

This will prevent the digestive process from disturbing your sleep. This is because the body won't slip into deep-detox mode until about eight hours after the last meal and then it needs about four more hours of undisturbed sleep to do its job properly.

Try a head massage

beautyguide.com

Massage special trigger points on the back of your head with your thumb in a circular motion just before bed. There are specific points on the skull that are known to have therapeutic effects.

Rub your feet

www.thesun.co.uk

Give your feet an at least three-minute massage with a moisturising cream before you sleep.

Invest in a copper pillow

www.healthymummy.com

According to studies, pillowcases with strands of copper oxide prevent wrinkles as they boost elastin and collagen in the skin. It is also believed to have antimicrobial properties that fight bacteria and could help tame spots and acne that can re-appear in middle age.