Russian Embassy Mocks Obama's Sanctions With Picture of 'Lame' Duck

Russian Embassy Mocks Obama's Sanctions With Picture of 'Lame' Duck // // Russia is reacting with a variety of statements, including on social media, after President Obama announced new sanctions in response to Moscow's U.S. election-related hacking. Obama said "all Americans should be alarmed" by Russia's actions, which included - according to U.S. intelligence - hacking emails from the DNC and John Podesta and giving them to WikiLeaks. The White House said it would sanction nine "entities and individuals," including two Russian intelligence services, expel 35 Russian "intelligence operatives" and close two Russian compounds in Maryland and New York. The moves prompted mockery from the Russian Embassy in the U.K., which tweeted a picture of a "LAME" duck, since Obama has just weeks left in his presidency. President Obama expels 35  diplomats in Cold War deja vu. As everybody, incl  people, will be glad to see the last of this hapless Adm. pic.twitter.com/mleqA16H8D — Russian Embassy, UK (@RussianEmbassy) December 29, 2016 A Russian parliamentarian called the sanctions the "death throes of political corpses," insisting that Moscow would "consider the circumstances of the transition period and a possible reaction of the US President-elect." President Vladimir Putin issued a statement Friday, calling the sanctions "unfriendly" and "provocative." "We will not resort to irresponsible 'kitchen' diplomacy but will plan our further steps to restore Russian-US relations based on the policies of the Trump Administration," he said, adding that U.S. diplomats would not be expelled from Moscow. And Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who was president when Obama took office in 2008, also responded on Twitter. It is regrettable that the Obama administration, which started out by restoring our ties, is ending its term in an anti-Russia agony. RIP — Dmitry Medvedev (@MedvedevRussiaE) December 30, 2016 Watch the report from "Happening Now" above.

Russia is reacting with a variety of statements, including on social media, after President Obama announced new sanctions in response to Moscow's U.S. election-related hacking.

Obama said "all Americans should be alarmed" by Russia's actions, which included - according to U.S. intelligence - hacking emails from the DNC and John Podesta and giving them to WikiLeaks.

The White House said it would sanction nine "entities and individuals," including two Russian intelligence services, expel 35 Russian "intelligence operatives" and close two Russian compounds in Maryland and New York.

The moves prompted mockery from the Russian Embassy in the U.K., which tweeted a picture of a "LAME" duck, since Obama has just weeks left in his presidency.

President Obama expels 35 diplomats in Cold War deja vu. As everybody, incl people, will be glad to see the last of this hapless Adm. pic.twitter.com/mleqA16H8D — Russian Embassy, UK (@RussianEmbassy) December 29, 2016

A Russian parliamentarian called the sanctions the "death throes of political corpses," insisting that Moscow would "consider the circumstances of the transition period and a possible reaction of the US President-elect."

President Vladimir Putin issued a statement Friday, calling the sanctions "unfriendly" and "provocative."

"We will not resort to irresponsible 'kitchen' diplomacy but will plan our further steps to restore Russian-US relations based on the policies of the Trump Administration," he said, adding that U.S. diplomats would not be expelled from Moscow.

And Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who was president when Obama took office in 2008, also responded on Twitter.

It is regrettable that the Obama administration, which started out by restoring our ties, is ending its term in an anti-Russia agony. RIP — Dmitry Medvedev (@MedvedevRussiaE) December 30, 2016

Watch the report from "Happening Now" above.

Giuliani: Obama's Russia Sanctions 'Too Little, Too Late' and 'Almost Silly'

George Soros: 'Would-Be Dictator' Trump Putting Democracy 'In Crisis'

Roginsky on Obama's New Russia Sanctions: 'Disgusted at How Weak This Is'

Bristol Palin Blasts Artists for Refusing to Perform at Trump Inauguration