Ever Wondered Why Some People Snore And Some Don't? Here's Your Answer To What Causes Snoring
Ever Wondered Why Some People Snore And Some Don't? Here's Your Answer To What Causes Snoring
Ever Wondered Why Some People Snore And Some Don't? Here's Your Answer To What Causes Snoring While there are multiple ways to answer what causes snoring, let's just take a moment to address it. In some cases, it prevents your partner from sleeping. Even worse, prolonged snoring can lead to excessive tiredness and stress-related health issues. But what causes you to snore? Snoring happens when you can't move air freely through your nose and throat during sleep. This makes the surrounding tissues vibrate, which produces the familiar snoring sound. From an anatomical standpoint, snoring is caused by a partially closed upper airway (the nose and throat). Everyone’s neck muscles relax during sleep, but sometimes they relax so much that the upper airway partly closes and becomes too narrow for enough air to travel through to the lungs. Why do some people snore and others don't? Those who have enlarged tonsils, an enlarged tongue or excess weight around the neck are more prone to snoring. The sound itself is an indicator that the person who is snoring has a narrow airway. 40% of normal adults snore regularly, whether they realise it or not. What is snoring doing to your body? Not everyone, but a lot of people who snore also suffer from sleep apnea. Basically, it prevents you from getting the healthy sleep you need to lead a refreshed, energetic life. 3 in 10 men and 2 in 10 women who are habitual snorers suffer from this. (Also read: 7 Obvious Signs That You Should Be Taking Better Care Of Your Health ) So if you snore and if you are sleeping next to someone who snores, take it as a sign that something is not right. Go see your doctor!

While there are multiple ways to answer what causes snoring, let's just take a moment to address it. In some cases, it prevents your partner from sleeping. Even worse, prolonged snoring can lead to excessive tiredness and stress-related health issues.

But what causes you to snore?

Snoring happens when you can't move air freely through your nose and throat during sleep. This makes the surrounding tissues vibrate, which produces the familiar snoring sound.

From an anatomical standpoint, snoring is caused by a partially closed upper airway (the nose and throat).

resmed

Everyone’s neck muscles relax during sleep, but sometimes they relax so much that the upper airway partly closes and becomes too narrow for enough air to travel through to the lungs.

Why do some people snore and others don't?

Those who have enlarged tonsils, an enlarged tongue or excess weight around the neck are more prone to snoring. The sound itself is an indicator that the person who is snoring has a narrow airway. 40% of normal adults snore regularly, whether they realise it or not.

huffingtonpost

What is snoring doing to your body?

Not everyone, but a lot of people who snore also suffer from sleep apnea. Basically, it prevents you from getting the healthy sleep you need to lead a refreshed, energetic life. 3 in 10 men and 2 in 10 women who are habitual snorers suffer from this.

(Also read: 7 Obvious Signs That You Should Be Taking Better Care Of Your Health)

healthy.magazine

So if you snore and if you are sleeping next to someone who snores, take it as a sign that something is not right. Go see your doctor!