NT family vows to rebuild tattoo parlour gutted by fire police say is suspicious



NT family vows to rebuild tattoo parlour gutted by fire police say is suspicious

Posted

The co-owner of a Northern Territory tattoo parlour gutted by what police say is a suspicious fire says the family business will be rebuilt.

Detectives and forensics officers spent the morning scouring the scene of the blaze which started about 5:20am at Tattoo Crew on McKenzie Place at Yarrawonga.

"Police believe that a device similar to a Molotov cocktail was used and the window to the shop was broken and the item was thrown through the window which cause the blaze," Detective Acting Sergeant Toby Wilson from the Serious Crimes Squad said.

"The fire was well alight when it was discovered, but it was due to the excellent work of the security guard by locating the fire early before further damage was caused to the business and the surrounding businesses."

Co-owner Sue Law returned to the shop this morning to find walls blackened in ash, the lounge, equipment and computers all completely destroyed.

"It's very black and sooty, the smell of fire is really quite incredible, there's nothing that can be saved really, at this stage, it's just gone," she said.

"No-one's been hurt, that's my main thing; the other businesses haven't been effected — that's a bonus — so you've got to look at the bright side of things."

Ms Law said she and her husband Don opened the family business 12 months ago and she would be joined by family and supporters to help clean the shop later today, and re-build in the new year.

"We'll just make sure it doesn't happen again, we'll just put in measures and security and do [what] we have to do to prevent it from happening again, to the best of our ability," she said.

"There's no use of crying in the corner and saying, 'Oh, why has this happened to me', you've got to just move on, which is what we'll do and we will re-build and we will be open for our customers."

Detective Acting Sergeant Wilson said no motive had yet been established and no links to outlaw motorcycles gangs had been made either.

He added police are attempting to find CCTV of the incident and have urged witnesses or anyone with information to come forward.

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, fires, police, yarrawonga-0830