Sia Files for Divorce From Filmmaker Erik Anders Lang
Sia Files for Divorce From Filmmaker Erik Anders Lang
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' for Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Sia Files for Divorce From Filmmaker Erik Anders Lang  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  It seems Sia wants to start a new chapter in the new year: The Grammy-nominated singer has filed for divorce from her filmmaker husband Erik Anders Lang, according to TMZ , which a source confirmed to . After two years of marriage, Sia filed documents on Dec. 20 in Los Angeles Superior Court, citing "irreconcilable differences." The couple announced their separation earlier this month , releasing a statement that said, "After much soul searching and consideration we have made the decision to separate as a couple. We are, however, dedicated to remaining friends."  Sia, 41, and Lang announced their engagement in June 2014 and were married two months later at her home in Palm Springs, California. They do not have any children. Sia is nominated for three awards at the 2017 Grammys: Best Pop Vocal Album ( ), Best Pop Duo/Group Performance ("Cheap Thrills") and Best Song Written for Visual Media ("Try Everything").  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Erik Anders Lang and singer Sia attend the after party for the premiere of RADIUS-TWC's "The One I Love" at Umami Burger on Aug. 7, 2014 in Los Angeles.Â

It seems Sia wants to start a new chapter in the new year: The Grammy-nominated singer has filed for divorce from her filmmaker husband Erik Anders Lang, according to TMZ, which a source confirmed to Billboard.

After two years of marriage, Sia filed documents on Dec. 20 in Los Angeles Superior Court, citing "irreconcilable differences."

The couple announced their separation earlier this month, releasing a statement that said, "After much soul searching and consideration we have made the decision to separate as a couple. We are, however, dedicated to remaining friends."

Sia, 41, and Lang announced their engagement in June 2014 and were married two months later at her home in Palm Springs, California. They do not have any children.

Sia is nominated for three awards at the 2017 Grammys: Best Pop Vocal Album (This Is Acting), Best Pop Duo/Group Performance ("Cheap Thrills") and Best Song Written for Visual Media ("Try Everything").