Madrid Turns To Odd-Even Scheme For The First Time To Deal With High Levels Of Pollution
Madrid Turns To Odd-Even Scheme For The First Time To Deal With High Levels Of Pollution
Madrid Turns To Odd-Even Scheme For The First Time To Deal With High Levels Of Pollution Sitting in India, with immense dust and heavy traffic, it may seem that it’s the only country dealing with high and perilous levels of pollution but so isn’t the case as European capitals from Paris to Madrid are also fighting a similar battle. Spain’s capital, Madrid, is for the first time going to try the odd-even scheme to curb high levels of pollution. On Thursday, Madrid’s city hall announced that it had ordered half of most private cars off the roads to fight a particularly bad bout of pollution, a first for Spain. From Friday, between 05:30 GMT and 20:00 GMT, “vehicles with even-number registration plates will be allowed to drive around on even-number days and cars with odd-number registration plates on odd-number days,” city hall said in a statement. Madrid’s scheme has a few exceptions including mopeds, hybrid cars and those carpooling with three or more people or used by disabled people. Buses, taxis and emergency vehicles are also exempt. Deputy Mayor, Marta Higueres said, “It is not about traffic restrictions but about the important issue of public health. Lots of people suffer from breathing problems and are very affected by pollution.” With 3.2 million residents and some 1.8 million cars, Madrid often suffers from bad bouts of pollution. The move to ban half of cars off the roads is level three out of four anti-pollution measures. Level four bans taxis also from the city, barring those using hybrid cars.

Sitting in India, with immense dust and heavy traffic, it may seem that it’s the only country dealing with high and perilous levels of pollution but so isn’t the case as European capitals from Paris to Madrid are also fighting a similar battle. Spain’s capital, Madrid, is for the first time going to try the odd-even scheme to curb high levels of pollution.

Reuters

On Thursday, Madrid’s city hall announced that it had ordered half of most private cars off the roads to fight a particularly bad bout of pollution, a first for Spain.

From Friday, between 05:30 GMT and 20:00 GMT, “vehicles with even-number registration plates will be allowed to drive around on even-number days and cars with odd-number registration plates on odd-number days,” city hall said in a statement.

Miriam Perez/Flickr

Madrid’s scheme has a few exceptions including mopeds, hybrid cars and those carpooling with three or more people or used by disabled people. Buses, taxis and emergency vehicles are also exempt.

Deputy Mayor, Marta Higueres said, “It is not about traffic restrictions but about the important issue of public health. Lots of people suffer from breathing problems and are very affected by pollution.”

Reuters

With 3.2 million residents and some 1.8 million cars, Madrid often suffers from bad bouts of pollution. The move to ban half of cars off the roads is level three out of four anti-pollution measures. Level four bans taxis also from the city, barring those using hybrid cars.

With inputs from AFP