Mulayam Singh Expels Son Akhilesh Yadav From Samajwadi Party + 5 More Stories You Need To Read Today
Mulayam Singh Expels Son Akhilesh Yadav From Samajwadi Party + 5 More Stories You Need To Read
Mulayam Singh Expels Son Akhilesh Yadav From Samajwadi Party + 5 More Stories You Need To Read Today 1. The move by Akhilesh came a day after Mulayam, along with his brother and state party president Shivpal Singh Yadav, had declared the official list of 325 candidates. Read more here. 2. Tyagi was granted bail by a special court in Delhi which said that the CBI had failed to state the alleged bribe amount and when it was paid. Read more here. 3. 6 department websites, 5 centres of excellence sites and 5 other sites were hacked. Apparently, the website was hacked by one 'Faisal 1337x', who put up a photo of the Joker from in the garb of the McDonald's mascot on its page. Read more here.  4. Of the Rs 458 crore cash seizures, Rs 105 crore, which is a tad under a quarter, was in new currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000, indicating the widespread use of banking and cash mules to convert old currency into new ones, which is stored as cash in offices and homes. Read more here . 5. Airports may soon have lie-detecting kiosks which will ask questions and detect changes in physiology and behaviour during the interview The Automated Virtual Agent for Truth Assessments in Real-Time (AVATAR) is currently being tested to help border security agents determine whether travellers coming into Canada may have undisclosed motives for entering the country. Read more here.

1. The infighting in the Samajwadi Party intensified on Friday with party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav expelling his son and UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav from Samjwadi Party for six years

The move by Akhilesh came a day after Mulayam, along with his brother and state party president Shivpal Singh Yadav, had declared the official list of 325 candidates. Read more here.



2. The Delhi High Court on Friday, on the Central Bureau Investigation's (CBI) plea, issued a notice to ex-Indian Air Force chief SP Tyagi against the bail given to him on 26 December

Tyagi was granted bail by a special court in Delhi which said that the CBI had failed to state the alleged bribe amount and when it was paid. Read more here.

3. The website of Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, one of the country's finest colleges, got hacked and pro-Pakistani messages were posted in a bid to take a dig at India

6 department websites, 5 centres of excellence sites and 5 other sites were hacked. Apparently, the website was hacked by one 'Faisal 1337x', who put up a photo of the Joker from Dark Knight in the garb of the McDonald's mascot on its page. Read more here.

4. The income tax department has stepped up its drive against those "misusing" the demonetization drive to convert "black money" into "white" and has issued over 5,000 notices and detected undisclosed income of close to Rs 4,200 crore

Of the Rs 458 crore cash seizures, Rs 105 crore, which is a tad under a quarter, was in new currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000, indicating the widespread use of banking and cash mules to convert old currency into new ones, which is stored as cash in offices and homes. Read more here.

5. Airports may soon have lie-detecting kiosks which will ask questions and detect changes in physiology and behaviour during the interview

The Automated Virtual Agent for Truth Assessments in Real-Time (AVATAR) is currently being tested to help border security agents determine whether travellers coming into Canada may have undisclosed motives for entering the country. Read more here.