A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York and Washington, DC Suburbs
A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York Suburb and Small Maryland Town 
Shares               In a property on Long Island's Gold Coast sits one of several posh homes hidden from eyes of passers-by. Hundreds of miles away, in Centreville, Maryland, is a 45-acre bucolic retreat, complete with a 33-room house that has a vault for fur and 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Aside from offering what appeared to be pinnacle of luxury on some of the most desired pieces of land, the estates have another thing in common -- they're complexes owned and used by Russian governmental officials. On Thursday the White House announced that both will be shuttered in retaliation for a series of cyberattacks that targeted U.S. political institutions during the election. Here's a look at the history of each of the dachas.  Pioneer Point in Centreville, Maryland The Russian-owned compound in Maryland is a 45-acre retreat on Pioneer Point, a peninsula where the Corsica and Chester rivers merge. The luxury retreat is being shut down due to alleged Russian espionage , The Washington Post reported . As of Friday evening, Google Maps labeled the "Russian Embassy's Country Retreat" as "permanently closed." Google classified the property as an assisted living facility.   Pioneer Point was the estate of former DuPont and General Motors executive John J. Raskob, according to the Hagley Museum and Library . Raskob is best known for building the Empire State Building . In 1972, the Soviet government paid $1.2 million -- in cash -- for two Raskob mansions to be used as a vacation spot for diplomats, The New York Times reported. At the time, a local newspaper reported "fears of nuclear submarines surfacing in the Chester River to pick up American Secrets and defectors," according to the Washington Post. But, the abundance of dinner parties, caviar and vodka eventually won the locals over. The property included 33 rooms, 13 fireplaces, a refrigerated storage vault for fur and a 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Also featured on the property were about a mile of sandy beach, a swimming pool, two tennis courts, soccer fields and a goldfish pond, according to the Times. The Russian occupants later added to the estate by making a deal with the U.S. State Department , which received two properties in Moscow in return, according to the Washington Post.        Property in Upper Brookville, New York A Russian compound in Upper Brookville, New York is also being shut down, the town’s mayor confirmed to ABC News. The property is among of a number of homes in the posh community and a police officer and a federal agent’s SUV were seen parked at the end of the driveway Friday. Obama expelled 35 Russian nationals and sanctioned five Russian entities and four individuals for the "acting in a manner inconsistent with their diplomatic status," the White House said. The president said the actions "follow repeated private and public warnings" that have been issued to the Russian government, adding that they are a "necessary and appropriate" response to "efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior." Russian had planned to retaliate but Putin rejected a recommendation from his foreign minister to expel 35 U.S. diplomats. It will be up to Putin to draft any retaliatory measures. "We will certainly response adequately…and it will be determined in line with decisions adopted by the Russian President," Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov told reporters.    Shares                  A Look at the Russian Compounds Nestled in New York Suburb and Small Maryland Town   Texas Rangers to Help Search for Tom Brady's Stolen Super Bowl Jersey, Lt. Gov Says   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Travel Ban Lifted but for How Long? Court Must Decide   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

In a property on Long Island's Gold Coast sits one of several posh homes hidden from eyes of passers-by.

Hundreds of miles away, in Centreville, Maryland, is a 45-acre bucolic retreat, complete with a 33-room house that has a vault for fur and 3,000-bottle wine cellar.

Aside from offering what appeared to be pinnacle of luxury on some of the most desired pieces of land, the estates have another thing in common -- they're complexes owned and used by Russian governmental officials.

On Thursday the White House announced that both will be shuttered in retaliation for a series of cyberattacks that targeted U.S. political institutions during the election.

Here's a look at the history of each of the dachas.

Pioneer Point in Centreville, Maryland

The Russian-owned compound in Maryland is a 45-acre retreat on Pioneer Point, a peninsula where the Corsica and Chester rivers merge. The luxury retreat is being shut down due to alleged Russian espionage, The Washington Post reported.

As of Friday evening, Google Maps labeled the "Russian Embassy's Country Retreat" as "permanently closed." Google classified the property as an assisted living facility.

Joel Schectman/Reuters

Pioneer Point was the estate of former DuPont and General Motors executive John J. Raskob, according to the Hagley Museum and Library. Raskob is best known for building the Empire State Building.

In 1972, the Soviet government paid $1.2 million -- in cash -- for two Raskob mansions to be used as a vacation spot for diplomats, The New York Times reported. At the time, a local newspaper reported "fears of nuclear submarines surfacing in the Chester River to pick up American Secrets and defectors," according to the Washington Post. But, the abundance of dinner parties, caviar and vodka eventually won the locals over.

The property included 33 rooms, 13 fireplaces, a refrigerated storage vault for fur and a 3,000-bottle wine cellar. Also featured on the property were about a mile of sandy beach, a swimming pool, two tennis courts, soccer fields and a goldfish pond, according to the Times.

The Russian occupants later added to the estate by making a deal with the U.S. State Department, which received two properties in Moscow in return, according to the Washington Post.

Property in Upper Brookville, New York

A Russian compound in Upper Brookville, New York is also being shut down, the town’s mayor confirmed to ABC News.

The property is among of a number of homes in the posh community and a police officer and a federal agent’s SUV were seen parked at the end of the driveway Friday.

Obama expelled 35 Russian nationals and sanctioned five Russian entities and four individuals for the "acting in a manner inconsistent with their diplomatic status," the White House said. The president said the actions "follow repeated private and public warnings" that have been issued to the Russian government, adding that they are a "necessary and appropriate" response to "efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior."

Russian had planned to retaliate but Putin rejected a recommendation from his foreign minister to expel 35 U.S. diplomats. It will be up to Putin to draft any retaliatory measures.

"We will certainly response adequately…and it will be determined in line with decisions adopted by the Russian President," Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov told reporters.

ABC News' Aaron Katersky contributed to this report.

Editor's Note: An earlier version of this story reported that the compound in Glen Cove was being shuttered. New information indicates it is a compound in Upper Brookville instead.