3-Year-Old Got a Suit for Christmas So He Can Dress Just Like Local Meteorologist
3-Year-Old Got a Suit for Christmas So He Can Dress Just Like Local Meteorologist
Like most 3-year-olds, Woods McFarland dreams of what he’s going to be when he grows up. Yet, unlike other toddlers, he doesn’t want to be a firefighter, policeman, doctor, or astronaut — instead, his goal is to be just like Jason Smith, the local Foley, Ala. meteorologist. For Christmas on Sunday, Woods was gifted a black suit, white button down shirt, and red tie so he can dress just like his hero. His mother, Kiri Stanford McFarland shared a video of her child opening the present, which has received more than 50,000 views. “Wow,” exclaims and then proceeds to kiss the shirt repeatedly and ask his mother to put it on him please. Once Woods changed into his costume, he delivers his very own weather report. “Tomorrow it’s going to be spring,” he declares while holding a remote. “That’s when the flowers grow.” Kiri sent the clip to Smith and his station, Fox10 News, aired it. Then, on Wednesday, Woods, along with his older sister Mayme and mother, were invited to the studio. “I have no idea he came in one morning and said he wanted the costume like the man on TV. the black costume with the thing around his neck and the remote control, and I had no idea what he was talking about,” she explained to Bob Grip, the show’s lead anchor, of her son’s obsession. “And then one morning the news was on and he ran in and said, ‘He’s on! He’s on! Come look.’ And it was Jason Smith doing the forecast.” Smith then came out to meet Woods and even helped him achieve a career goals: delivering the weather report on TV. Sometimes dreams do come true.





Like most 3-year-olds, Woods McFarland dreams of what he’s going to be when he grows up. Yet, unlike other toddlers, he doesn’t want to be a firefighter, policeman, doctor, or astronaut — instead, his goal is to be just like Jason Smith, the local Foley, Ala. meteorologist.

For Christmas on Sunday, Woods was gifted a black suit, white button down shirt, and red tie so he can dress just like his hero. His mother, Kiri Stanford McFarland shared a video of her child opening the present, which has received more than 50,000 views. “Wow,” exclaims and then proceeds to kiss the shirt repeatedly and ask his mother to put it on him please.

Once Woods changed into his costume, he delivers his very own weather report. “Tomorrow it’s going to be spring,” he declares while holding a remote. “That’s when the flowers grow.”

Kiri sent the clip to Smith and his station, Fox10 News, aired it. Then, on Wednesday, Woods, along with his older sister Mayme and mother, were invited to the studio.

“I have no idea he came in one morning and said he wanted the costume like the man on TV. the black costume with the thing around his neck and the remote control, and I had no idea what he was talking about,” she explained to Bob Grip, the show’s lead anchor, of her son’s obsession. “And then one morning the news was on and he ran in and said, ‘He’s on! He’s on! Come look.’ And it was Jason Smith doing the forecast.”

Smith then came out to meet Woods and even helped him achieve a career goals: delivering the weather report on TV.

Sometimes dreams do come true.

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.