Tracee Ellis Ross, Bill Hader, Zac Posen and Jurnee Smollett-Bell on Their TV of the Year



We asked some of this year’s notable authors, actors and showrunners about the TV they enjoyed most in 2016. Come back to Watching, The New York Times’s TV and movie recommendation site, to read them all.

Inset: Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images; Amazon Studios

Tracee Ellis Ross

Favorite TV Series: ‘Fleabag’ (Amazon)



“Fleabag” delivered captivating, hilarious and heart-wrenching charm in its six episodes and left me wanting to spend more time trying to both unravel it and put it back together. Long after “Fleabag” finished, I experienced unexpected howls of laughter and moments of staring off blindly into space as I pondered the ways that I, too, fall outside the lines of expectation. Phoebe Waller-Bridge is fantastic, hilarious and real. Her face is a treasure chest of stories I want to know more about. It is rare to see a lead female character who is flawed, lovable and in command of her choices. Female characters aren’t usually allowed to be both sexual and mean without being the villain. I was excited to see characteristics that are usually used to demonize women portrayed instead as a badge of power. (Add “Fleabag” to your Watchlist.)

— Tracee Ellis Ross stars in “black-ish,” on ABC.

[Sign up for the Watching newsletter to get recommendations straight to your inbox.]

Inset: Matt Sayles/Invision, via Associated Press; Alex Wong/Getty Images

Jurnee Smollett-Bell



Favorite TV Moment: Michelle Obama at the Democratic National Convention



The coverage of the 2016 election was perhaps some of the worst and ugliest television of the year. Filled with hate and division, we openly broadcast some of the most shameful sides of our nation. But when Michelle Obama stood up there like the goddess she is during her address to the Democratic National Convention and challenged us all to be just a little better, that was a standout moment. As she spoke of the irony of waking up every morning “in a house that was built by slaves,” while watching her “daughters, two beautiful, intelligent, black young women, playing with their dogs on the White House lawn,” tears came to my eyes. I couldn’t help but feel hopeful about our future despite the current climate.

At its best, America represents progress and hope. The first lady touched upon what should be a source of great inspiration and optimism to us all. When we consider that her distant ancestors, who toiled in the fields, damned by a life of bondage, shared the bloodline that would eventually give birth to the first African-American first lady, there is no denying that anything is possible.

— Jurnee Smollett-Bell stars in “Underground,” on WGN.

Bill Hader

Least Favorite TV Show: ‘Snapped’ (Oxygen)

A show I don’t miss is about women who kill, and it’s called “Snapped.” In most episodes, there’s a moment when the narrator says, “And that’s when she snapped.” It’s great. There was a case this year that took place in Chicago. I might have the specifics wrong, but I think a private detective found out that this guy’s wife was moonlighting as a stripper. He said, in an incredibly thick Chicago accent, “She worked at a club … called Knockers.” The guy paused because he didn’t know if it was O.K. to say the word “knockers” on TV. It was hilarious.

— Bill Hader is a star and co-creator of “Documentary Now,” on IFC.

Inset: Neilson Barnard/Getty Images; NHK World

Zac Posen

Favorite TV Channel: NHK World TV

I really love watching NHK World TV, which is a Japanese channel. It gives great insight into Japanese arts, culture and tradition. There’s one episode that I found particularly interesting called “Kata-yuzen: The Stenciled Beauty of Dyeing.” The episode walks you through the labor-intensive work that goes into making the stencils used to create kimonos, as well as how the development enabled mass production and saved dyers time. I am constantly amazed and fascinated with how people develop and perfect their craft.

— Zac Posen is a fashion designer and a co-host on “Project Runway.”