Pedals the Bear Blurred a Line Between Species
Pedals the Bear Blurred a Line Between Species
B. 20?? Pedals the Bear the State of New Jersey allowed a black-bear hunt for the first time in 33 years. The resulting controversy, still smoldering today, seemed irresolvable: Depending on whom you asked, the hunt was either sadistic blood sport or noble tradition. Two sociologists, Dave Harker and Diane C. Bates, scrutinized 10 years of clashing regional newspaper editorials and letters to the editor and concluded that the two sides did not even seem to be arguing about the same animal. Actual bears had been replaced by “competing social constructions” of bears. Those in favor of the hunt imagined the animals as “menacing threats” that needed to be controlled; those against saw them as docile and benevolent creatures that just wanted to “live in peace.” Each construction of the bear was then girded by the construction of subsequent constructions; the meaning-making escalated quickly. Voices opposing the hunt dismissed hunters as “uncivilized killers incapable of reason and unworthy of respect,” while hunters dismissed opponents as “panicky” suburbanites and “anthro-antagonistic wackos of the PETA-Qaeda cult.” With each side delegitimizing the other, actual dialogue seemed impossible. And everyone delegitimized the government, with each side believing that the state couldn’t be trusted to make a fair decision about the hunt because it was corrupted by the other. The entire episode, the sociologists wrote, “highlights how public discourse has fed intractability over the conflict rather than provided common grounds for consensus.” Bears are huge, immovable objects, made of bone and meat. And yet here they were, being swished around like ephemeral sock puppets on a plane of pure, post-truth subjectivity called New Jersey. So that was the backdrop. Now enter Pedals, shambling on two legs. The black bear rose to fame in the summer of 2014, after a man in suburban Oak Ridge filmed him toddling through the bulb end of a quiet cul-de-sac at dawn. Pedals, as he became known, appeared to be missing his right front paw, and his left front leg seemed warped and truncated — injury or deformity, only he knew. But he had apparently compensated for these disabilities by learning to walk upright, an image that produced both delight and terror. It all felt deeply weird. Especially because Pedals was good at walking. The camera tracked him as he moved in a sturdy lurch, covering a lot of ground, holding his dangling, unnecessary arms close to his chest like a mime absconding with a snatched purse. At one point, Pedals leaned over a garbage can, just to check out what was inside. Then he crossed a lawn and accelerated into a stand of trees. It was obvious where he was heading: internet fame. At first, many people refused to believe that the footage was real. But even those who did resorted to describing Pedals as looking like a human in a bear suit — which, on the skeletal level, is a fair description of what all bears are. His humanness was uncanny and made our animal-ness feel suddenly uncanny, too. After all, we were quadrupedal ourselves until three to six million years ago, when a few of us reared up and decided to stop moving dumbly in the direction of our digestive tracts. It was our earliest signature innovation. Now Pedals was innovating, too — crossing some sacrosanct threshold of verticality, blurring some line. They didn’t contextualize the video like this when they played it on “Good Morning America,” but if the walking bear unsettled you, I’m suggesting that this is why. More people saw Pedals. More videos surfaced. The question became: What should we do about him? Two local women, Sabrina Walsh Pugsley and Lisa Rose-Rublack, started an online petition asking the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection to capture the bear and transport him to an orphaned wildlife center in upstate New York. By 2015, they had wrangled about 300,000 signatures from around the world, and they ultimately raised almost $25,000 to pay for the relocation. They ceremoniously delivered the petition to the State House and staged a small protest outside. Rose-Rublack worked in the world of domestic animal rescue — saving dogs, saving cats. It seemed obvious to her that a crippled black bear warranted the same compassionate intervention. There were reports of Pedals looking exhausted or frail. “We just wanted to take care of him,” Rose-Rublack says. State wildlife officials saw things differently. “The bipedal bear,” as they insisted on calling him, was not a victim but a survivor. Pedals was getting around, foraging, denning in winter — successfully executing all vital bear behaviors. They were hesitant to wrench an animal from the wild unnecessarily and warned that what might, through a certain anthropomorphic lens, feel like rescuing could actually be imprisonment. One wildlife expert, unaffiliated with the state but frequently called on by the press — a Pedals pundit — summed up the situation nicely: “We process things differently in the wildlife community,” she explained. She and her colleagues were looking at the exact same bear, feeling the exact same compassion. But, she said, they drew a different conclusion: “We don’t think he needs saving.” Every new Pedals sighting suggested that the state’s worldview best reflected the objective reality: He survived two winters; he was muddling through. When new footage of him appeared this June, wildlife officials noted that he even seemed to have put on some weight; they described him as “thriving.” But the wild card all along, of course, was New Jersey’s bear hunt. And on Oct. 10, it happened: A bow hunter in Morris County lugged Pedals’s body to a check station and weighed him in at 334 pounds. (Or what appeared to be Pedals’s body; the state won’t definitively identify any wild animal unless it has been tagged.) One photograph, released by the government, shows Pedals hanging from a scale with a bloodied maw — vertical again, but this time upside down. The Department of Environmental Protection would not release the hunter’s identity. (When rumors swirled around one man, he says he received death threats.) And so it was impossible to know the circumstances: whether the hunter knew the bear’s identity before he or she fired; whether Pedals, who did spend some time on all fours, had been distinguishable from an ordinary bear; whether he had been standing upright in the wilderness, looking preposterous and conspicuous, and conspicuously like himself. That is, the bear’s posture — the very proof of his resilience — might have marked him for death. It was never clear what we owed Pedals, exactly. You could argue that allowing Pedals to live in the woods and be hunted, like any other bear, was an act of respect — a validation of his wildness. You could also argue that it was a gruesome lapse of human compassion. Pedals stood for something. We may never agree what it was. entral Florida is the in-between you make go away by pressing a little harder on the gas. Orange groves at dusk, sky full of pastel color, and Janet Reno is driving the car, a rental. It’s 2002, Reno is running for governor of Florida, and I’ve spent days riding shotgun with her, reporting for this magazine, accompanying her to various campaign events — most of them populated by older women, bright and warm women with structures of freshly coifed hair, who fawn over Janet Reno, who knew her mother, an investigative reporter for The Miami News. To them, Janet Reno is the daughter who left Florida to fix America, serving eight controversial years as attorney general under Bill Clinton, and has now returned to fix the Sunshine State. There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany. have a little bit of patience and a lot of luck to catch Miss Cleo. She appeared on TV only late at night, after the second round of reruns and right before the white fuzz took over the screen. Miss Cleo was usually sitting at a table, draped in a glorious amount of fabrics, a stack of tarot cards in front of her, candles and incense burning behind her. “You have questions, I have the answers,” she would intone knowingly in her Jamaican patois, before singing out the words that would become her signature catchphrase: “Call me now!” ... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no? from a painting he kept on display in his studio, a depiction of souls plummeting into hell — a constant reminder of the multitudes that even his pen, wielded by a cartoonist for Christ, could not save from eternal fire. Still, Jack T. Chick did what he could, illustrating and mass-marketing his palm-size booklets that told different stories with the same message: If you do not accept Jesus Christ as your savior, you are hellbound. stopped on April 18, 1906, William A. Del Monte’s mother bundled him in a tablecloth and carried him out of the house and into the street, where her husband waited in a buckboard wagon. Amid San Francisco’s chaos — broken water and gas mains, shattered windows, twisted telegraph wires, six-foot chasms in the fissured earth — a horse began hauling the family from their North Beach neighborhood to the ferry terminal by the Embarcadero. Dawn was breaking. Small fires were beginning to burn. Houses, tipped diagonally, seemed on the verge of collapse. The city’s power was down, and its supplies of fresh water were mostly gone. the 19-year-old Frank Sinatra Jr. sang with the Tommy Dorsey band, just as his father had two decades before, though now Dorsey was seven years dead and The New York Times referred to the musicians performing under his name as a “ghost band that has become the nucleus of a ghost show.” The younger Sinatra was praised for how close his mannerisms and phrasing were to his father’s, but he was damned for lacking his father’s “creative presence.” he song came gushing out like an open hydrant on a hot summer day, but for Natalie Cole, it was a complicated kind of high. Minutes before she heard her breakthrough hit, “This Will Be,” on the radio for the first time in 1975, she had scored a heroin fix and was tripping down 113th Street in Harlem. Drugs were a recent mainstay; she started using heavily in college, during the substance-fueled psychedelic era (she still managed to get her degree, in psychology). Music, meanwhile, was her birthright — after all, she was the daughter of Nat King Cole, one of the most beloved singers of the 20th century. Growing up in the exclusive Hancock Park section of Los Angeles, she could wander into the living room and find the likes of Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong, Sinatra gathered round the family piano. Now that she had a big hit of her own, fame was proving to be a stronger stimulant. She kicked heroin, married one of her producers, had a son, had more hits, appeared on “The Tonight Show.” video that started Kimbo Slice on his way to bare-knuckle fame in 2003, two heavily muscled black men, each smooth-headed and stripped to the waist, square off in a backyard in Florida. Behind them you can see a grill, a satellite dish, palm trees. The web address of a porn site appears on the screen. Kimbo lowers his guard and taunts his opponent, Big D, who strikes Kimbo’s heedlessly exposed chin with no visible effect. Kimbo lands a blow that drops Big D to all fours in the sere grass. Staggering to his feet, Big D holds out open hands in a pacific gesture and says, “Chill, dawg, just chill.” gave birth to her son, Jonathan, in 1952, she saw his arrival as a “golden opportunity.” How much more fun and creative might his life be, she wondered, if he were raised using therapeutic techniques like role-playing or talking to an empty chair? Each was pioneered by J.L. Moreno, Zerka’s husband and the founder of psychodrama, a form of therapy in which people act out their experiences and feelings in an effort to gain insight or achieve catharsis. n 1981, the Louisiana Legislature passed a law that forbade public schools to teach evolution without also instructing students on “creation science.” The Creationism Act was challenged in court for breaching the constitutional wall between church and state, in a case that reached the Supreme Court in 1986. For seven justices, the decision involved a simple constitutional question. They saw the law as an effort to force religious belief into the science curriculum, and they struck it down. Reno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’ Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago. the summer of 1953, Josephine Couch went with her boyfriend, Salvatore Del Deo, on an overnight trip to the dunes outside Provincetown. They’d been invited by a friend, a former chorus girl who went by Frenchie Chanel, to stay with her at her tar-paper shack by the water. That day, amid the compass grass and rose hips, Josephine, 27, felt the rest of the world vanish: Birds cried, but the white noise of surf and wind enforced a hush. At night, the moonlight caused the dunes to glow. Josephine fell asleep in the arms of Salvatore, whom she married that fall, to the cooing of a dove. , she believed, to be taught by “Harvard’s great men.” At 17, Ruth Hoffman was freshly enrolled at Radcliffe, the women’s college affiliated with Harvard, and keen on studying biochemistry. It was 1941. The two institutions had separate campuses but shared a faculty. Harvard professors lectured their male students and were then obliged to repeat it all to the smaller, all-female classes at Radcliffe. That teaching women was a chore, even an insult, was something Hoffman read on their faces. Her professors did little, she felt, to hide their disdain. a boy is a dangerously ideal target for bullying: His horizons are limited, his sensitivity is ripe, his reactions are hot. amous and influential musicians die every year, but 2016 was bewildering. David Bowie, Leonard Cohen, Prince, Leon Russell, Phife Dawg ... it’s as if we walked out to look at the stars and found major constellations gone. Who had even gotten over Lou Reed yet? day of the first Circle of Mothers retreat, in 2014, Afeni Shakur approached the stage to speak to the assembled crowd. Some days, it felt as if America was brimming with grieving mothers, so the event’s founder, Sybrina Fulton, wanted to gather many of them together in the hope that they could help one another move forward. Her son, Trayvon Martin, was shot and killed two years earlier. Shakur’s son, the rapper Tupac Shakur, had been dead for almost 20 years. drugs and poisons to intentionally breed baby freaks: That’s the unvarnished core of Katherine Dunn’s third novel, 1989’s “Geek Love.” The Binewski Carnival Fabulon needs a boost, and Aloysius and Crystal Lil Binewski hatch this twisted plan to turn things around. Lil births a boy with flippers, beautiful Siamese-twin sisters joined at the waist, an albino dwarf hunchback and a boy with telekinetic powers. It hardly sounds like a universal cipher, the kind of humanist tale that attracts readers over time. Yet somehow this strange, singular book has spent the 27 years since its publication doing just that, speaking clear and true to a certain kind of reader. was a good time to be 13 and have your MTV. The channel gave you the recipes for being chicer, more alternative, more you; for being gayer, blacker, more confrontational; for being , basically. Perhaps it was your meal plan: “Yo! MTV Raps” for breakfast, “120 Minutes” for a midnight snack. And for dessert, “House of Style.” commuter train from Fairfield, Conn., to Manhattan, a woman with scarlet lipstick and chestnut hair slid beside a businessman reading his newspaper. “May I ask you a question?” she said. “What do you think about breast-feeding?” This was the mid-1950s. The woman was Dana Raphael, an anthropologist, a protégée of Margaret Mead and an outspoken feminist who, a decade before Betty Friedan’s “The Feminine Mystique,” refused to take her husband’s name and shunned the conventional wedding her mother planned. She initially also had no intention of following the de rigueur practice of bottle feeding. But after she tried but mostly failed to nurse her firstborn son, she began an anthropological quest that would end up spanning decades: Why was breast-feeding more successful in some cultures than in others? here’s a story about Muhammad Ali that might have been lost to history, disappearing among all the other Ali esoterica, but for The Los Angeles Times photographer Boris Yaro. On Monday, Jan. 19, 1981, Yaro heard reports of a suicidal jumper on the radio. His editor wasn’t interested, but Yaro drove over to Los Angeles’s Miracle Mile regardless, where he found a young black man in flared jeans and a hoodie, perched on an office-building fire escape nine floors above. appear with a thunderclap, a bright flash on a dark horizon, but can feel remote and evaporate just as quickly. Gwen Ifill was different. I didn’t know her, but I did get to know her influence, how it entered the lives of my students, especially girls and young women of color, whom I taught in Newark, N.J. For those like Jephtane Sophie Sabin and Isabel Evans, who watched Ifill on PBS over many years and eventually had the opportunity to meet her, Ifill created a warm and welcoming climate in which their aspirations had the chance to take root. Her impact wasn’t instant but played out slowly over time, like the rain of a wet season. “Out 1” — a 12-hour film, completed in 1971 and all but impossible to see in its entirety until very recently — begins with an extended sequence that combines artlessness and high artifice. The members of an experimental theater troupe (one of two such entities in the film) participate in an exercise that consists of writhing and squirming on the floor while wordlessly moaning and keening. It’s the primordial soup from which the film’s elaborate and elusive narrative will evolve, a reminder that every story begins in chaos and noise. Cinema, like other art forms, imposes a capricious kind of order on the mess of human experience, and “Out 1” illustrates this principle with a characteristically Rivetteian blend of intellectual rigor and anarchic whimsy. that a writer you first came to know in your youth is still writing in his advanced old age, you are at first surprised, as though he has risen from the tomb to write the poem you are reading. Then, once you absorb this fact, you go on to believe, quite illogically, that he will not die after all — certainly not soon. years, Coca Crystal’s weekly public-access show began with her smoking a joint. The show’s title was a scrap of messy poetry, as unwieldy as the program itself: “If I Can’t Dance, You Can Keep Your Revolution.” It was a no-fi interview show featuring scribbled title cards and minor downtown celebrities; regular guests included a singing dog and a disheveled poet who recited his work in a tapioca-thick mumble. She dedicated one episode to “the second anniversary of the first nonstop balloon crossing of North America.” The show isn’t easy to characterize, but Crystal probably described it best: “an hour of talk, telephone and technical failure.” Every episode ended with her dancing to groovy music — a little shoulder sway, some finger snaps. uring a Final Four basketball game against the University of North Carolina, on April 1, 2007, Pat Summitt, the coach of the University of Tennessee Lady Vols basketball team, found her team down by 12 points with 8:18 to go. She was fuming — her gold rings were dented from being banged on the parquet floor. Summitt was a screamer. She loved to win. Over 38 years at Tennessee, she won 1,098 games — more than any other coach in N.C.A.A. Division 1 history. She also understood winning as a far more potent and radical act than even the most rabid male football fans would understand while pounding their painted chests. Advertisement

B. 20??

The Lives They Lived

In 2003, the State of New Jersey allowed a black-bear hunt for the first time in 33 years. The resulting controversy, still smoldering today, seemed irresolvable: Depending on whom you asked, the hunt was either sadistic blood sport or noble tradition. Two sociologists, Dave Harker and Diane C. Bates, scrutinized 10 years of clashing regional newspaper editorials and letters to the editor and concluded that the two sides did not even seem to be arguing about the same animal. Actual bears had been replaced by “competing social constructions” of bears. Those in favor of the hunt imagined the animals as “menacing threats” that needed to be controlled; those against saw them as docile and benevolent creatures that just wanted to “live in peace.”

Each construction of the bear was then girded by the construction of subsequent constructions; the meaning-making escalated quickly. Voices opposing the hunt dismissed hunters as “uncivilized killers incapable of reason and unworthy of respect,” while hunters dismissed opponents as “panicky” suburbanites and “anthro-antagonistic wackos of the PETA-Qaeda cult.” With each side delegitimizing the other, actual dialogue seemed impossible. And everyone delegitimized the government, with each side believing that the state couldn’t be trusted to make a fair decision about the hunt because it was corrupted by the other. The entire episode, the sociologists wrote, “highlights how public discourse has fed intractability over the conflict rather than provided common grounds for consensus.” Bears are huge, immovable objects, made of bone and meat. And yet here they were, being swished around like ephemeral sock puppets on a plane of pure, post-truth subjectivity called New Jersey.

So that was the backdrop. Now enter Pedals, shambling on two legs.

The black bear rose to fame in the summer of 2014, after a man in suburban Oak Ridge filmed him toddling through the bulb end of a quiet cul-de-sac at dawn. Pedals, as he became known, appeared to be missing his right front paw, and his left front leg seemed warped and truncated — injury or deformity, only he knew. But he had apparently compensated for these disabilities by learning to walk upright, an image that produced both delight and terror. It all felt deeply weird. Especially because Pedals was good at walking. The camera tracked him as he moved in a sturdy lurch, covering a lot of ground, holding his dangling, unnecessary arms close to his chest like a mime absconding with a snatched purse. At one point, Pedals leaned over a garbage can, just to check out what was inside. Then he crossed a lawn and accelerated into a stand of trees. It was obvious where he was heading: internet fame.

At first, many people refused to believe that the footage was real. But even those who did resorted to describing Pedals as looking like a human in a bear suit — which, on the skeletal level, is a fair description of what all bears are. His humanness was uncanny and made our animal-ness feel suddenly uncanny, too. After all, we were quadrupedal ourselves until three to six million years ago, when a few of us reared up and decided to stop moving dumbly in the direction of our digestive tracts. It was our earliest signature innovation. Now Pedals was innovating, too — crossing some sacrosanct threshold of verticality, blurring some line. They didn’t contextualize the video like this when they played it on “Good Morning America,” but if the walking bear unsettled you, I’m suggesting that this is why.

More people saw Pedals. More videos surfaced. The question became: What should we do about him? Two local women, Sabrina Walsh Pugsley and Lisa Rose-Rublack, started an online petition asking the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection to capture the bear and transport him to an orphaned wildlife center in upstate New York. By 2015, they had wrangled about 300,000 signatures from around the world, and they ultimately raised almost $25,000 to pay for the relocation. They ceremoniously delivered the petition to the State House and staged a small protest outside. Rose-Rublack worked in the world of domestic animal rescue — saving dogs, saving cats. It seemed obvious to her that a crippled black bear warranted the same compassionate intervention. There were reports of Pedals looking exhausted or frail. “We just wanted to take care of him,” Rose-Rublack says.

State wildlife officials saw things differently. “The bipedal bear,” as they insisted on calling him, was not a victim but a survivor. Pedals was getting around, foraging, denning in winter — successfully executing all vital bear behaviors. They were hesitant to wrench an animal from the wild unnecessarily and warned that what might, through a certain anthropomorphic lens, feel like rescuing could actually be imprisonment. One wildlife expert, unaffiliated with the state but frequently called on by the press — a Pedals pundit — summed up the situation nicely: “We process things differently in the wildlife community,” she explained. She and her colleagues were looking at the exact same bear, feeling the exact same compassion. But, she said, they drew a different conclusion: “We don’t think he needs saving.”

Every new Pedals sighting suggested that the state’s worldview best reflected the objective reality: He survived two winters; he was muddling through. When new footage of him appeared this June, wildlife officials noted that he even seemed to have put on some weight; they described him as “thriving.” But the wild card all along, of course, was New Jersey’s bear hunt. And on Oct. 10, it happened: A bow hunter in Morris County lugged Pedals’s body to a check station and weighed him in at 334 pounds. (Or what appeared to be Pedals’s body; the state won’t definitively identify any wild animal unless it has been tagged.)

One photograph, released by the government, shows Pedals hanging from a scale with a bloodied maw — vertical again, but this time upside down. The Department of Environmental Protection would not release the hunter’s identity. (When rumors swirled around one man, he says he received death threats.) And so it was impossible to know the circumstances: whether the hunter knew the bear’s identity before he or she fired; whether Pedals, who did spend some time on all fours, had been distinguishable from an ordinary bear; whether he had been standing upright in the wilderness, looking preposterous and conspicuous, and conspicuously like himself. That is, the bear’s posture — the very proof of his resilience — might have marked him for death.

It was never clear what we owed Pedals, exactly. You could argue that allowing Pedals to live in the woods and be hunted, like any other bear, was an act of respect — a validation of his wildness. You could also argue that it was a gruesome lapse of human compassion.

Pedals stood for something. We may never agree what it was.

Jon Mooallem is a writer at large for the magazine and the author of “Wild Ones.”