The Best Images of the Year: 57 Captivating Photos of 2016 - ABC News



ABC News photo editors have picked a selection of what we think are some of the most striking and memorable images from the news this year.</br></br> Pictured: A demonstrator protesting the shooting death of Alton Sterling is detained by law enforcement near the headquarters of the Baton Rouge Police Department in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, July 9, 2016. Jonathan Bachman/Reuters

Military veterans march to a closed bridge outside the Oceti Sakowin camp where people have gathered to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline in Cannon Ball, North Dakota, Dec. 5, 2016. David Goldman/AP Photo

A Nenets rides a sled during a reindeer race on the Reindeer Herders' Day in the city of Nadym, in Yamal-Nenets Region, about 1,550 miles northeast of Moscow, Russia, on March 28, 2016. Sergey Anisimov/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Rescuers search for survivors from a collapsed building in Tainan, southern Taiwan, Feb. 7, 2016. At least eight people were killed and hundreds injured when a 6.4-magnitude earthquake struck southern Taiwan. Ritchie B. Tongo/EPA

Migrants, most of them from Eritrea, jump into the water from a crowded wooden boat as they are helped by members of an NGO during a rescue operation in the Mediterranean sea, north of Sabratha, Libya, Monday, Aug. 29, 2016. Emilio Morenatti/AP Photo

Omran, a 4-year-old Syrian boy covered in dust and blood, sits in an ambulance after being rescued from the rubble of a building hit by an airstrike in the rebel-held Qaterji neighborhood of the northern Syrian city of Aleppo, Aug. 17, 2016. Mahmound Rslan/AFP/Getty Images

Dense smoke over Lithi village from a wildfire on Chios island, Greece, July 25, 2016. The fire burned about 13.5 square miles of forest and farm land. Over 90 percent of the mastic trees were destroyed. Kostas Koyrgias/EPA

Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) rebels and supporters help push a vehicle stuck in mud at their camp in the remote Yari plains where the peace accord was ratified by the FARC on Sept. 25, 2016, in El Diamante, Colombia. Mario Tama/Getty Images

A man cuts wood from damaged trees from Hurricane Matthew in the village of Damassin, in the commune of Coteaux, in southwestern Haiti, on Nov. 3, 2016. At least 546 people were killed when Hurricane Matthew roared ashore. Hector Retamal/AFP/Getty Images

A woman looks across as a gay parade participant poses for pictures during the Madrid Gay Pride parade in Madrid, Spain, July 2, 2016. Daniel Ochoa de Olza/AP Photo

An Iranian swimming in Urmia Lake near Urmia, northwestern Iran, Aug. 26, 2016. Hopes for survival of Urmia salt lake were revived after more rains boosted a government program aimed at preserving the almost dried-up water body. Ebrahim Noroozi/AP Photo

Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton pauses while speaking during a fundraiser at the Capitol Hill Hyatt hotel on Oct. 5, 2016, in Washington, D.C. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images

Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vermont, fixes his hair before an interview with The Associated Press, May 23, 2016, in Los Angeles. Jae C. Hong/AP Photo

People in the crowd at Hillary Clinton's 2016 U.S. presidential election night event watch results begin to come in on a big screen at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York, New York, Nov. 8, 2016. Andrew Gombert/EPA

Donald Trump supporters cheer as voting results for Iowa come in at the Republican presidential nominee’s election night event at the New York Hilton Midtown on Nov. 8, 2016 in New York City. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump holds babies at a campaign rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado, July 29, 2016. Carlo Allegri/Reuters

A soldier is comforted after the urn with the ashes of Cuban leader Fidel Castro was driven through Santa Clara on Dec. 1, 2016 during its four-day journey across the island for the burial in Santiago de Cuba. Ronaldo Schemidt/AFP/Getty Images

One of 23 giant panda cubs fell off the stage after they made their debut to the public at Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding on Sept. 29, 2016 in Chengdu, China. Getty Images

Children play at a makeshift camp for migrants and refugees at the Greek-Macedonian border near the village of Idomeni, Greece, March 29, 2016. Marko Djurica/Reuters

Players of the Chicago Cubs celebrate the final out as the Cubs’ World Series win over the Cleveland Indians, Nov. 2, 2016. The Cubs won the series 4-3. Erik S. Lesser/EPA

A 4-month-old baby born with microcephaly is held by his mother in front of their house in Olinda, near Recife, Brazil, Feb. 11, 2016. Nacho Doce/Reuters

French police forces and forensic officers stand next to a truck that ran into a crowd celebrating the Bastille Day national holiday on the Promenade des Anglais killing at least 60 people in Nice, France, July 15, 2016. Eric Gaillard/Reuters

Two women lie wounded in the Brussels Airport after explosions ripped through the departure hall on March 22, 2016. All flights were canceled, arriving planes were diverted and Belgium's terror alert level was raised to maximum, officials said. Ketevan Kardava/ Georgian Public Broadcaster via AP Photo

In this aerial image, Aso Ohashi Bridge is washed away by a landslide on April 16, 2016, in Minamiaso, Kumamoto, Japan. The Asahi Shimbun via Getty Images

Migrants cross a river on an alternative route to pass the border between Greece and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia near Idomeni, northern Greece, March 14, 2016. Migrants stuck at the closed border sought other ways to enter Macedonia. Zoltan Balogh/EPA

High school students wait for the urn with the ashes of Cuban leader Fidel Castro to drive through Santa Clara on Dec. 1, 2016, during its four-day journey across the island for the burial in Santiago de Cuba. Ronaldo Schemidt/AFP/Getty Images

Members of the LGTBQ community attend a candlelight vigil outside the White House, June 12, 2016. They were there to honor the victims of the mass shooting at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. Jim Lo Scalzo/EPA

President Barack Obama and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton embrace on stage during Day 3 of the Democratic National Convention at the Wells Fargo Center, July 27, 2016 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Saul LoebAFP/Getty Images

A giant poster of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stands in the backyard of a supporter in West Des Moines, Iowa, on Jan. 28, 2016. Christopher Furlong/Getty Images

A woman mourns the loss of her husband, who was shot dead by an unidentified gunman in Manila, Philippines, on July 23, 2016. Noel Celis/AFP/Getty Images

Iraqi families, displaced by the ongoing operation by Iraqi forces against jihadists of the Islamic State group to retake the city of Mosul, are seen near Qayyarah, south of Mosul, on Oct. 29, 2016. Bulent Kilica/AFP/Getty Images

Two men watch a wildfire from a swimming pool as it burns near Benitachel, eastern Spain, Sept. 5, 2016. The blaze forced the evacuation of around 1,000 people. Alberto Saiz/AP Photo

Rescue teams continue their operations in the rubble of the largely destroyed mountain village of Amatrice, Italy, Sept. 1, 2016. A devastating earthquake on the morning of Aug. 24 left a total of 293 dead, according to official sources. Alessandro Di Meo/EPA

Syrian men remove a victim from the rubble of a building following a reported air strike on the rebel-held Bustan al-Qasr neighborhood of the northern city of Aleppo, on Sept. 10, 2016. Ameer Alhalbi/AFP/Getty Images

Syrian men carrying babies make their way through the rubble of destroyed buildings following a reported air strike on the rebel-held Salihin neighborhood of the northern city of Aleppo, on Sept. 11, 2016. Ameer Alhalbia/AFP/Getty Images

A car bomb explodes next to an Iraqi special forces armored vehicle as they advance toward territory held by the Islamic State group in Mosul, Iraq, on Nov. 16, 2016. Felipe Dana/AP Photo

Spanish soldiers of the 7th Airborne Light Infantry Brigade 'Galicia' fire a howitzer Light Gun L118 during maneuvers with other units in preparation to NATO's Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) in Zaragoza, Spain, April 19, 2016. Javier Cebollada/EPA

Usain Bolt of Jamaica competes in the men's 100-meter semifinal on Day 9 of the Rio 2016 Olympic Games at the Olympic Stadium on Aug. 14, 2016, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Cameron Spencer/Getty Images

Oscar Pistorius walks across the courtroom without his prosthetic legs during the third day of the re-sentencing hearing for the 2013 murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, at Pretoria High Court, South Africa, June 15, 2016. Siphiwe Sibeko/Reuters

Police officers wearing riot gear block a road during protests after police fatally shot Keith Lamont Scott in the parking lot of an apartment complex in Charlotte, North Carolina, Sept. 20, 2016. Adam Rhew/Charlotte Magazine via Reuters

LeBron James, left, and Kevin Love of the Cleveland Cavaliers celebrate after defeating the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game 7 of the 2016 NBA Finals at ORACLE Arena on June 19, 2016, in Oakland, California. Ezra Shaw/Getty Images

The image of a face appears as hundreds of military troops holding mosaic cards raise them in a wave, during a review of the troops that will march in the Independence Day parade, in Mexico City, Sept. 14, 2016. Rebecca Blackwell/AP Photo

A man collects coconuts and other items thrown as offerings by worshippers in the Sabarmati river, a day after the "Dashama" festival in Ahmedabad, India, Aug. 12, 2016. Amit Dave/Reuters

A so-called Silvesterchlaus (New Year Clause) holds on to his hat during heavy winds on his way in Waldstatt, Switzerland, Jan. 13, 2016, to offer his best wishes for the New Year (following the Julian calendar) to the farmers in this region. Gian Ehrenzeller/EPA

A Prairie Dog rodent native to North America, dressed in her best dress as she pauses while being chased by her owner, during a pet show special event called Prairie's Got Talent, at Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand, held Feb. 27, 2016. Barbara Walton/EPA

Duane Ehmer rides his horse Hellboy at the occupied Malheur National Wildlife Refuge on the sixth day of the occupation of the federal building in Burns, Oregon, on Jan. 7, 2016. Rob Kerr/AFP/Getty Images

Tambrasha Hudson, center, is comforted as she joins demonstrators protesting the shooting death of her son 16-year-old Pierre Loury near the location where he was killed on April 12, 2016, in Chicago, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images

A Dallas Area Rapid Transit police officer receives comfort at Baylor University Hospital emergency room entrance on July 7, 2016, in Dallas, Texas, after several of his colleagues were shot and killed in an ambush. Ting Shen/The Dallas Morning News via Reuters

A woman lays her head on the coffin of a victim of the failed July 15 coup attempt during his funeral in Istanbul, Turkey on July 17, 2016. Gurcan Ozturk/AFP/Getty Images

Maida Le Beau, from the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, embraces Bobby Robedeaux, of the Echohawk Bayhylle family of the Pawnee Nation, after learning that permits would not be approved for a section of the Dakota Access pipeline, Dec. 4, 2016. Alyssa Schukar/The New York Times via Redux

A migrant, identified as Pelen Hussein from Syria, standing on top of a capsized boat as he waits to be rescued by members of the Turkish Coast Guard Air Command in the Aegean Sea off the coast of Edremit, northwestern Turkey, on Feb. 8, 2016. Turkish Coast Guard via AFP/Getty Images

Air Force One carrying President Barack Obama and his family flies over a neighborhood of Havana as it approaches the runway to land at Havana's international airport, March 20, 2016. Alberto Reyes/Reuters

In this White House handout photo, President Barack Obama, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and First Lady Michelle Obama talk with Prince George at Kensington Palace on April 22, 2016, in London, England. Pete Souza/The White House via Getty Images

A window cleaner dressed as Spider-Man jokes with patient Matheus as he looks inside Hospital Infantil Sabara as part of the Brazil Children's Day in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Oct. 10, 2016. Paulo Whitaker/Reuters

Chacha, the male chimp, screams at a worker in Sendai, Japan, after fleeing from a zoo, April 14, 2016. The chimpanzee tried desperately to avoid being captured by climbing an electric pole after being on the loose for nearly two hours. Kyodo News via AP Photo

Serena Williams celebrates her victory in the Ladies’ Singles Final against Angelique Kerber of Germany on Day 12 of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club on July 9, 2016 in London, England. Julian Finney/Getty Images