#YadavPariWar: Mulayam Brings Back Son Akhilesh, Brother Ram Gopal Into SP Within Hours After Kicking Them Out!
#YadavPariWar, Mulayam Brings Back Son Akhilesh Into SP Within Hours After Kicking Him Out!
#YadavPariWar: Mulayam Brings Back Son Akhilesh, Brother Ram Gopal Into SP Within Hours After Kicking Them Out! Hours before the dramatic year comes to a close, The Yadav family feud gets another dramatic twist. नेताजी के आदेश अनुसार अखिलेश यादव और रामगोपाल यादव का पार्टी से निष्कासन तत्काल प्रभाव से समाप्त किया जाता है। सब साथ (1/2) ....  मिलकर सांप्रदायिक ताकतों से लड़ेंगे और पुनः उत्तर प्रदेश में पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार बनाएंगे। (2/2) Samajwadi Party president Mulayam Singh Yadav has revoked the the expulsion of his son. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, and party strategist Ram Gopal Yadav. Yadav had expelled them for six years, claiming he's done to save the party. Internal mail from Akhilesh's US advisor Steve Jarding leaked. US coach suggests war in SP is orchestrated to project CM as development icon pic.twitter.com/b2ff7twLTS Akhilesh's expulsion was like a Goa plan. Everyone knew it was going to get cancelled yet they took interest in it. Akhilesh Yadav back in Samajwadi Party. This was faster than a teenage couple fighting and getting back together.

Hours before the dramatic year comes to a close, The Yadav family feud gets another dramatic twist.

नेताजी के आदेश अनुसार अखिलेश यादव और रामगोपाल यादव का पार्टी से निष्कासन तत्काल प्रभाव से समाप्त किया जाता है। सब साथ (1/2) — Shivpal Singh Yadav (@shivpalsinghyad) December 31, 2016

.... मिलकर सांप्रदायिक ताकतों से लड़ेंगे और पुनः उत्तर प्रदेश में पूर्ण बहुमत की सरकार बनाएंगे। (2/2) — Shivpal Singh Yadav (@shivpalsinghyad) December 31, 2016

Samajwadi Party president Mulayam Singh Yadav has revoked the the expulsion of his son. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, and party strategist Ram Gopal Yadav.

Yadav had expelled them for six years, claiming he's done to save the party.

Here's a conspiracy theory doing the rounds

Internal mail from Akhilesh's US advisor Steve Jarding leaked. US coach suggests war in SP is orchestrated to project CM as development icon pic.twitter.com/b2ff7twLTS — Rahul Kanwal (@rahulkanwal) December 30, 2016

Every single guy knows the feels



Akhilesh's expulsion was like a Goa plan. Everyone knew it was going to get cancelled yet they took interest in it. — Sagar (@sagarcasm) December 31, 2016

Akhilesh Yadav back in Samajwadi Party. This was faster than a teenage couple fighting and getting back together. — Pakchikpak Raja Babu (@HaramiParindey) December 31, 2016

Times of India inputs