The Rolls-Royce of British Jobs Ain't What It Used to Be
Rolls-Royce Boss Needs to Pull Out the Stops
The Rolls-Royce of British Jobs Ain't What It Used to Be   Industrials  Chris Bryant is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering industrial companies. He previously worked for the Financial Times.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  For any management-minded British engineer, there's no bigger job than becoming chief executive of Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. Warren East, a well-regarded technology enthusiast, may end up crushed by the size of the task. East, 55, spent more than a decade transforming U.K. chip designer ARM Holdings into a world-beater. ARM was bought this year by Japan's SoftBank for a staggering 24 billion pounds ($29.4 billion), suggesting he did a good job. Few would have begrudged him spending the rest of his professional life holding cushy non-executive roles, giving speeches and playing his beloved church organ on weekends. But at Rolls-Royce he's opted for arguably the toughest job in British industry. After a difficult first 18 months, there's little relief in sight in 2017 for the jet engine and turbine maker. True, a rebound in oil prices may help Rolls-Royce's struggling marine division. Even so, the group probably won't generate much cash flow next year, after an expected outflow of as much as 300 million pounds in 2016. While analysts anticipate net income will rise to more than 600 million pounds in 2017, that overstates Rolls-Royce's health because of its odd accounting - of which more anon. To his credit, East's lost no time slashing costs and cutting jobs and has scored some successes: increasing financial disclosure, speeding up aircraft engine production and dispensing with Rolls-Royce's imperious management culture. But the long development cycles in aerospace mean East isn't entirely the master of his destiny. The Rolls-Royce course was set long before he arrived. The company's 70.5 billion pound civil order book is focused on the wide-body jet market, where Rolls-Royce is aiming for a 50 percent share. Yet that's a questionable ambition in itself because single-aisle jets are able to fly much further these days and they've sold much better than their fatter brethren. More important, there's no guarantee that Rolls-Royce's orders, which mostly pre-date East, will ultimately generate lots of cash and profits. One reason for the recent profit woes is that older jets were grounded sooner than managers calculated, meaning Rolls-Royce didn't get the expected service revenues. In view of the huge cost of delivering (and then maintaining) such a large order book it's reasonable to ask whether there's anything else previous management got wrong. There are other grounds for caution. Last month, East shocked investors when he revealed Rolls-Royce's core civil aerospace unit is loss-making under the more orthodox revenue recognition practices it will have to adopt from 2018. Deutsche Bank analyst Ben Fidler thinks the civil engine division, which contributes about half of Rolls-Royce revenue, won't make an operating profit until 2019 under the new accounting rules. That will be four years after East first took over. Furthermore, when the company stops capitalizing engine losses on its balance sheet in 2018, as it's done up until now, shareholder equity could be almost wiped out, according to Credit Suisse. Despite those chastening views, Rolls-Royce still trades on 25 times estimated earnings, a hefty premium to French rival Safran SA -- and that's before you adjust for Rolls-Royce's accounting peculiarities. Such a rich valuation shows investors' faith that East knows what he's doing. But that confidence could evaporate quickly if he can't provide tangible proof that Rolls-Royce's order book is creating value. A crucial test will come in 2018, when the company has implied it will target about 500 million pounds of free cash flow. That's going to be tough. East said last month that Rolls-Royce loses up to 2 million pounds on each new engine produced. He may come to regret not spending more time trying to perfect his organ pedal technique. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  That figure is implied by the management incentive scheme.  To contact the author of this story: in at cbryant32@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at jboxell@bloomberg.net Michelin's convertible Crazy Convertibles  Michelin Man Grabs a Free Lunch   Deals  Back To Health Tit-for-Tat  Don't Expect Europe to Lie Down Over Dodd-Frank   Finance  Years since first Prius went on sale Vision thing  Toyota May Be Losing the Future   Autos  Singapore Slight Wishful Thinking  Snagging Aramco Won't Be Easy, Singapore   Deals  Uber free rides offered in China changing gears  Uber's Big Fat Indian Wedding Service   Tech  Google Play's Starting Spot in China's Market Lukewarm Welcome  Google Won't Play in China   Tech  Stock Surge Revisionist History  Gary Cohn Doesn't Need a Time Machine   Markets  Curves Showing Not So Fast  JPMorgan's China News Is Great...for China   Markets  Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials

For any management-minded British engineer, there's no bigger job than becoming chief executive of Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. Warren East, a well-regarded technology enthusiast, may end up crushed by the size of the task.

East, 55, spent more than a decade transforming U.K. chip designer ARM Holdings into a world-beater. ARM was bought this year by Japan's SoftBank for a staggering 24 billion pounds ($29.4 billion), suggesting he did a good job.

Civil order book 70.5 billion pounds

Few would have begrudged him spending the rest of his professional life holding cushy non-executive roles, giving speeches and playing his beloved church organ on weekends. But at Rolls-Royce he's opted for arguably the toughest job in British industry. After a difficult first 18 months, there's little relief in sight in 2017 for the jet engine and turbine maker.

True, a rebound in oil prices may help Rolls-Royce's struggling marine division. Even so, the group probably won't generate much cash flow next year, after an expected outflow of as much as 300 million pounds in 2016.

Cash Constrained East is under pressure to deliver better cash flow by 2018 Source: Rolls-Royce guidance

While analysts anticipate net income will rise to more than 600 million pounds in 2017, that overstates Rolls-Royce's health because of its odd accounting - of which more anon.

To his credit, East's lost no time slashing costs and cutting jobs and has scored some successes: increasing financial disclosure, speeding up aircraft engine production and dispensing with Rolls-Royce's imperious management culture. But the long development cycles in aerospace mean East isn't entirely the master of his destiny. The Rolls-Royce course was set long before he arrived.

The company's 70.5 billion pound civil order book is focused on the wide-body jet market, where Rolls-Royce is aiming for a 50 percent share. Yet that's a questionable ambition in itself because single-aisle jets are able to fly much further these days and they've sold much better than their fatter brethren.

More important, there's no guarantee that Rolls-Royce's orders, which mostly pre-date East, will ultimately generate lots of cash and profits. One reason for the recent profit woes is that older jets were grounded sooner than managers calculated, meaning Rolls-Royce didn't get the expected service revenues. In view of the huge cost of delivering (and then maintaining) such a large order book it's reasonable to ask whether there's anything else previous management got wrong.

There are other grounds for caution. Last month, East shocked investors when he revealed Rolls-Royce's core civil aerospace unit is loss-making under the more orthodox revenue recognition practices it will have to adopt from 2018.

Deutsche Bank analyst Ben Fidler thinks the civil engine division, which contributes about half of Rolls-Royce revenue, won't make an operating profit until 2019 under the new accounting rules. That will be four years after East first took over.

Furthermore, when the company stops capitalizing engine losses on its balance sheet in 2018, as it's done up until now, shareholder equity could be almost wiped out, according to Credit Suisse.

Balance Sheet Hit Rolls-Royce won't be able to capitalize engine losses under new accounting rules Source: Rolls-Royce

Despite those chastening views, Rolls-Royce still trades on 25 times estimated earnings, a hefty premium to French rival Safran SA -- and that's before you adjust for Rolls-Royce's accounting peculiarities.

Such a rich valuation shows investors' faith that East knows what he's doing. But that confidence could evaporate quickly if he can't provide tangible proof that Rolls-Royce's order book is creating value.

A crucial test will come in 2018, when the company has implied it will target about 500 million pounds of free cash flow. That's going to be tough. East said last month that Rolls-Royce loses up to 2 million pounds on each new engine produced. He may come to regret not spending more time trying to perfect his organ pedal technique.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Chris Bryant in Frankfurt at cbryant32@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

James Boxell at jboxell@bloomberg.net