China's top-secret desert town known only as '404' shown in chilling new photos
Inside China's top secret nuclear town


Out of the 657 cities in China, there is one that cannot be found on any maps. People don't read about it on newspapers or see it on TV. Most Chinese people don't even know of its existence.

Welcome to 404, a remote city in the far-flung Gobi Desert which was built as a national secret in 1950s so that Communist China could make its first nuclear bomb during the height of the Cold War.

As if it's to add to its mystery, the city's code name - also the name of the nuclear plant it served - happens to be the responsive code one gets nowadays when a webpage cannot be found.

Scroll down for video

The statue of Chairman Mao was the centre of 404 city where the residents went to relax, socialise and find entertainment

The model aircraft in the Nuclear City Park has become derelict after all residents of 404 city were relocated in 2005

After all residents left, the 404 city became empty, however many pets were were left behind by their former owners

The 404 city had its own train station and Li Yang took this picture recently which shows the deserted coal storage

The mysterious city had two kindergartens which looked exactly the same and were designed by the Russians, Li Yang said

The run-down building used to house the 'Old Granny Hot Pot', a popular restaurant in the far-flung community

Once thriving and full of life, the 500-acre city, located among the barren sands of central Asia, is now largely deserted.

A set of incredible pictures, taken by a Chinese photographer who claims to grow up there, captures the haunting presence of today's 404 city - after all residents were relocated by the authority in 2005.

'You wouldn't find my hometown on any Chinese map,' said Li Yang, a 32-year-old photographer who now lives in the glamorous capital city of Beijing, 2,000 kilometres (1,242 miles) from the isolated 'nuclear city'.

Mr Li said during an exclusive interview with MailOnline: 'Other people would say their hometown is Beijing or Wuhan. What about me? I would say I come from 404 city. It feels strange.'

For about half a century, the city of 404 existed for one sole purpose: as the living quarters of the employees who worked for the state-owned nuclear factory of the same name, which built China's first nuclear bomb in the 1950s and 1960s.

There were no buses, taxis or even traffic lights in 404 city because 'you could walk from one end to the other in 15 minutes', recalled Mr Li.

It was such a tight-knit society that everyone knew everyone - because residents either worked for the factory or were family members of the workers.

All the residents, no matter they were managers or normal workers, went to the same public bathhouse, which is now empty

The heaters have been taken down from the wall of the city's public bathhouse, where all residents came to relax

An apartment building is now left in an eerie status as water from burst water pipes were frozen outside the deserted building

The gate of 'Nuclear City Park', the only scenic spot in 404 city where residents chilled out with friends and visiting relatives

Male customers of Bitan public bathhouse would have used this handrail between to go from the ground to the second floor

Female customers of Bitan public bathhouse would have stood in these cubical to take showers after a long day of work

The apartment building was built in the 1960s. The green frames on the wall were used to hang the pictures of Chairman Mao

However, the small community was equipped with all the functions one can think of in a large city, from a dance club to a library, from a public bathhouse to a vinegar factory.

There was and still is a towering statue of Chairman Mao, the founding Communist leader of the People's Republic of China, and 'that was the city's central square where you could show up after dinner to find all your playmates'.

All the children were sent to the two kindergartens whose interiors were identical and were designed by the Russians. Afterwards, they would study in one of the two primary schools - No. 1 and No. 4 Primary School - before entering the same middle school and the same high school.

The city, in the far west of China, even had pastry chefs specialised in making a popular snack from Shanghai, an eastern coastal metropolis some 2,800 kilometres (1,739 miles) away.

The building was used as the entertainment centre of workers and contained a library, training room and card game room

These apartment buildings were among the newest that had been built in 404 city before all residents left in 2005

The city had two kindergartens, two primary schools, one middle school and one high school to serve the workers' families

A forest and an irrigation system had been built to stop sandstorms from invading the city which was located in Gobi Desert

The city had a small forest in the centre and walls were built to protect the trees. Nowadays, only animals walk past it

Kitchen containers were left outside the windows of the residential building which was full of life during the city's heyday

'It was a typical Communist collective lifestyle,' Mr Li said. 'People were sent from around China to live and work in the purposely built city to accommodate three generations. They brought their customs and languages to the melting pot.'

He added: 'At the time, China wanted to build a nuclear bomb at all costs.'

Mr Li said when he was growing up, there were about 20,000 people in the city.

The 'nuclear city', built from scratch in the most remote part of China, did not let the country down. On October 16, 1964, the country successfully exploded its first atomic bomb at the Lop Nor nuclear test site, and Mr Li said the bomb was built by the scientists and workers living in 404 city.

'In the exhibition hall of the China National Nuclear Corporation today, there is a picture near the entrance showing a young woman celebrating the success of the explosion. That woman was my relative, and she was so young at the time,' said Mr Li.

An old office building in the city centre is now left standing in the empty crossroad as all residents have moved away

'You could walk from one end to the other in 15 minutes', recalled Mr Li. He took the picture standing at one end of the city. The city ended at the end of this road

Gas pipes had been installed to supply energy to the desert city as it could get as cold as minus 30 during winter

The community had all the functions of a big city, including a dance hall, a library and a post office (pictured)

Li Yang said the city had two primary schools, No.1 and No.4 Primary school. He studied in No. 4 Primary School (pictured)

The No. 1 Primary School was pictured. The slogan on the wall encouraged pupils to be 'united, attentive, serious and lively'

The professional photographer lived in 404 city for 19 years until he went to university in 2003.

Two years later, the city was largely abandoned. All the residents in the city were relocated by the authority to live in another city, also in the Gobi Desert.

'It was a strange feeling,' said Mr Li. 'I lost my hometown.'

Like many people, Mr Li feels nostalgic about the good old days, even if his hometown technically never existed in the modern Chinese history.

There was a zoo in 'Nuclear City Park', which kept bears, birds, monkeys, peacocks and deer. Above was the birds' enclosure

A high wall has been erected outside one of the two kindergartens since all residents left the 404 city in 2005

Sheep have taken over the enclosure which was used to keep deer inside the 'Nuclear City Park', the city's only scenic spot

The pavilion and the fountain in the 'Nuclear City Park' stood in a lonely manner in the 404 city which no longer has residents

A greenhouse had been built in the park to keep plants from around China so residents of the desert town could see nature

The entertainment ride in the park became rusty and stood in solitary as the city is no longer occupied by residents

A part of the empty park in 404 city, a remote community in the far-flung Gobi Desert built as a national secret in 1950s

Workers who got married were given wedding flats. Above was one of them and lucky ornaments can still be seen on the wall

Li Yang's pictures capture the haunting presence of today's 404 city - after all residents were relocated in 2005

He went back to 404 city for four times during 2013 and 2016 to document its deserted streets, buildings and parks

He went back to 404 city for four times during 2013 and 2016 to document its deserted streets, buildings and parks.

'As soon as I stand on the ground of 404 city, my memories would rush back. I could hear, see and smell things in this empty city,' he said.

One of Mr Li's favourite pictures is of two lonely trees standing on the barren Gobi sand.

'I planted them when I was four near the backyard of my house,' he said.

Now one of the trees is live, and one of them dead - just like the two 404 cities living in Mr Li's mind.

One of Mr Li's favourite pictures is of two lonely trees standing on the barren Gobi sand. He planted them when he was four

The picture shows the ruins of the dormitories of the construction workers who were sent to build 404 city from scratch

Residents would gather to fish and socialise in the pavilion inside the 'Nuclear City Park' when Li Yang was growing up

Mr Li said when he was growing up, there were about 20,000 people in the city, but now the place is eerie and empty

More apartment buildings of the deserted 404 city, which was built to accommodate workers at a nearby nuclear factory

The wall of a kindergarten of 404 city. Li Yang said there were two kindergartens and they looked exactly the same