Woman Makes Obscene Video With Man At Gunpoint, Then Blackmails Him For Rs 20 Lakh!
Woman Makes Obscene Video With Man At Gunpoint, Then Blackmails Him For Rs 20 Lakh!
Woman Makes Obscene Video With Man At Gunpoint, Then Blackmails Him For Rs 20 Lakh! In a crime resembling a filmy drama, an engineer was trapped by a woman and asked to pay Rs 20 lakh to save himself from false accusations of molestation. A man named Furqan, from Bahraich, has been arrested while his aides are on the run. According to the police, complainant Moti Singh of Hasanganj, a junior engineer employed with Lesa, was being blackmailed by a woman and her aides. In November, the woman went to him to ask for a job in a school Singh runs. However, when Singh told her that she did not fulfil the eligibility criteria, the woman pleaded with him, citing poverty and Singh gave her Rs 400. On December 20, the again woman met Singh near the school and asked her for a lift on his bike. She took Singh to a place where two unidentified youths were waiting for them. The duo trained a pistol at Singh, abducted him and took him to a room where they forcefully made a video of Singh with the woman in a compromising state. The miscreants and the woman then threatened to make the video public if Singh did not pay Rs 20 lakh. The group continued calling Singh from the woman's mobile and he kept saying he was unable to pay that amount. The miscreants then reduced the amount to Rs 2 lakh. Singh finally lodged a complaint on Thursday and police nabbed one accused but others are on the run, said ASP (Aliganj) Meenakshi Gupta.

In a crime resembling a filmy drama, an engineer was trapped by a woman and asked to pay Rs 20 lakh to save himself from false accusations of molestation.

primenews/representational image

A man named Furqan, from Bahraich, has been arrested while his aides are on the run. According to the police, complainant Moti Singh of Hasanganj, a junior engineer employed with Lesa, was being blackmailed by a woman and her aides.

In November, the woman went to him to ask for a job in a school Singh runs. However, when Singh told her that she did not fulfil the eligibility criteria, the woman pleaded with him, citing poverty and Singh gave her Rs 400.

Sahara Samay/representational image

On December 20, the again woman met Singh near the school and asked her for a lift on his bike.

She took Singh to a place where two unidentified youths were waiting for them. The duo trained a pistol at Singh, abducted him and took him to a room where they forcefully made a video of Singh with the woman in a compromising state.

The miscreants and the woman then threatened to make the video public if Singh did not pay Rs 20 lakh.

The group continued calling Singh from the woman's mobile and he kept saying he was unable to pay that amount. The miscreants then reduced the amount to Rs 2 lakh.

vishwagujarat/representational image

Singh finally lodged a complaint on Thursday and police nabbed one accused but others are on the run, said ASP (Aliganj) Meenakshi Gupta.

Inputs From TNN