What Type Of Drunk Will You Be On New Years Eve?
What Type Of Drunk Will You Be On New Years Eve?
What Type Of Drunk Will You Be On New Years Eve?  You got:
								
								Emotional Drunk  As the alcohol keeps coming so do the tears. 2016 has been a big year and you just think everyone should sit down and share their feelings, so you can start the new year fresh. You will be found having a heart to heart in the toilets or crying because you’ve lost your friend.    You got:
								
								Dancing Drunk  Your friends will try but they can’t drag you off of the dancefloor, you want to spend NYE dancing and won’t do anything else. Your feet will pay in the morning but 2016 brought out too many bops for you to ignore this NYE.    You got:
								
								Vomming Drunk  You won’t even know that 2017 has come in because you’ll be too busy paying the price for all those shots you had. Maybe going for a curry before getting drunk isn’t the best idea.    You got:
								
								Sleepy Drunk  Every time you sit down you will feel yourself drifting off, 2016 has been very tiring and tbh the alcohol won’t help. You’ll most likely fall asleep on the toilet and your friends will spend hours looking for you.    You got:
								
								Happy Drunk  2016 is has been your year and you are going to celebrate it! You’re going to be throwing out compliments left, right and centre, and will let everyone know how much they mean to you. You want to start 2017 how you mean to go on – happy.    You got:
								
								The one that said they wouldn’t get drunk.  Your friends will twist your arm and get you to come out even though you’ve swore to yourself you’ll have a quiet night in and not spend ridiculous amounts of money. You’ll start off on soft drinks but get coaxed into doing shots, the rest will be a blur really. The next day you’ll wake up full of regret but admittedly having the best night ever.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   This Quiz Will Reveal What % Joey And What % Chandler...    How Much Do You Really Hate Feelings?  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

You got: Emotional Drunk As the alcohol keeps coming so do the tears. 2016 has been a big year and you just think everyone should sit down and share their feelings, so you can start the new year fresh. You will be found having a heart to heart in the toilets or crying because you’ve lost your friend.

You got: Dancing Drunk Your friends will try but they can’t drag you off of the dancefloor, you want to spend NYE dancing and won’t do anything else. Your feet will pay in the morning but 2016 brought out too many bops for you to ignore this NYE.

You got: Vomming Drunk You won’t even know that 2017 has come in because you’ll be too busy paying the price for all those shots you had. Maybe going for a curry before getting drunk isn’t the best idea.

You got: Sleepy Drunk Every time you sit down you will feel yourself drifting off, 2016 has been very tiring and tbh the alcohol won’t help. You’ll most likely fall asleep on the toilet and your friends will spend hours looking for you.

You got: Happy Drunk 2016 is has been your year and you are going to celebrate it! You’re going to be throwing out compliments left, right and centre, and will let everyone know how much they mean to you. You want to start 2017 how you mean to go on – happy.