Jo Malone: Came Up Smelling Like Roses After Cancer
Jo Malone: Came Up Smelling Like Roses After Cancer
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Leah Wald       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Until last month, the name Jo Malone only made me think of my mom’s perfume. But Jo Malone does a lot more than just make my mom and her friends smell good. In 1999, Jo Malone sold Jo Malone London to Estée Lauder Companies and remained Creative Director until she left in 2006. Five years later, she launched her new brand, Jo Loves, in November 2011. The ruthless world of cosmetics, as well as her life challenges, have taught her many lessons which she hopes to impart to the world in her latest book, . Jo Malone Founder of Jo Loves (Courtesy of Jo Loves)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Until last month, the name Jo Malone only made me think of my mom’s perfume. But Jo Malone does a lot more than just make my mom and her friends smell good. In 1999, Jo Malone sold Jo Malone London to Estée Lauder Companies and remained Creative Director until she left in 2006. Five years later, she launched her new brand, Jo Loves, in November 2011.

The ruthless world of cosmetics, as well as her life challenges, have taught her many lessons which she hopes to impart to the world in her latest book, Jo Malone: My Story.

Leah Wald: How have your childhood experiences inspired your entrepreneurial spirit?

Jo Malone (Founder of Jo Loves): I think that they’re intrinsically linked. I think that it's the way that you’re raised and the values that you gain. Are you born an entrepreneur? No, I don’t think that you are. I think that circumstances put you in an environment where you have to survive and that is the spirit of an entrepreneur. Do we have to come from a tough background to be an entrepreneur? Of course not. But I do think there has to be that moment in which a survival instinct starts to kick in and you think: what do I have that I can use, that I can build, and that can make me and my family’s life better?

Wald: What advice do you currently have for yourself as you began to build your original company?

Malone: I think that in the beginning I never enjoyed the moment. I was always on to the next chapter and the next thing. It didn't matter how high that I climbed, it was always the next climb. Therefore, I missed a lot of the enjoyment along the way. I would say now: relax, you will be successful, but enjoy the moments when they come, and still work hard. Don't be frightened of tough times. Tough times will make you stronger, not weaker, and people will never define you for how many times you fall but how many times that you stand up. And respect creativity. In my younger life, I really thought that I owned it, that it was something that was part of me. I realize now that I don't. It is a relationship that you have with creativity and that it is through your imagination. But you don't own it. You can walk alongside and respect it.

Wald: How can aspiring entrepreneurs find their true passion?

Malone: I think that you can't. I think that you can't summon that passion out quite like a musician or an artist. You can't sit in front of a canvas or with an instrument and just say write me a piece of music that would change the world or something like that. What happens is that you have to emotionally connect to your product or the service that you’re doing. With all founders, I think the thing that is really true is integrity, a desire to build and create something. And I think a lot of entrepreneurs have the envision to see the end goal even before they envision the beginning goal. They can see the journey far ahead because it's their baby.