Intolerant post-Brexit Britain: history shows we can be better than this | Hugh Muir

re we the nation suggested by the 41% spike in hate crimes that followed the Brexit vote? Where non-white Britons are abused in the street and people harangued for wearing the wrong clothes or presuming that they might speak in anything but English? Where Nadiya Hussain’s popularity after winning The Great British Bake Off could not save her from being confronted by the boor on a train who declared “I ain’t sitting near a Muslim” ? Where women wearing the hijab are attacked in the street. Where a dark-skinned woman exercising her constitutional legal right to challenge the executive is threatened and bullied by assailants who tell her – not that she may be wrong – but that she should leave the country ? It feels close to that now. The spike has fallen from its peak; still equilibrium seems distant: the air seems toxic. And what is extraordinary is that no one in any position of power and authority is doing anything meaningful about it. Were the markets careering out of control, the chancellor would be touring television and radio stations trying to calm them. Were there to be a terrorist atrocity, the prime minister would rush to the scene. The procedures for dealing with these big-ticket emergencies are well established. Not so the procedure for reacting to a dramatic erosion in the social glue. There is little by way of leadership from No 10. Nothing from the communities secretary to suggest his title is anything other than honorific. There was a statement from Robert Buckland , the solicitor general, declaring saying that levels of hate crimes – 2,778 incidents between 5 and 18 August – had declined to 2015 levels. Some reassurance. In the year to 2015, hate crimes, at 52,000 offences, had jumped more than a fifth . This is business as usual, a new normal. Against the context of what is happening to minorities on the streets, on social media, that’s a dereliction of duty. All the more so because this acridity is not a given. We’re cranky now, with the handbrake off and inhibitions released, but at times more tense and fearful in our history we have been more willing to show kindness to people of difference. We have been better than this. Recently published in the UK is Forgotten: The Untold Story of D-Day’s Black Heroes , first released in the US, about the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion , an 800-strong unit of black American soldiers whose contribution to the D-day landings had all but been erased from history. After landing on the beaches, they deployed armed balloons and deterred enemy aircraft – a task for which they largely prepared over seven months in the British countryside, having docked in the north of Scotland. Before the arrival of the Empire Windrush and the advent of mass immigration, there was an influx of foreigners at a speed and on a scale to give Nigel Farage a coronary. They were soldiers during wartime, so of course they were met with gratitude, you might say; but the point is more specific for in the era of savagely enforced segregation in the US, white GIs showed a brutal and racist disdain for black GIs posted alongside them in Britain. And the British government, to curry favour with white, predominantly southern soldiers – and a like-minded US military establishment – offered the black GIs scant protection. Author Linda Hervieux located 12 of them, and the most striking thing they recall is the extraordinary extent to which ordinary British people – themselves deprived in a time of penury and rations – were their tigerish supporters, protectors and cheerleaders. Ollie Stewart , a black American journalist, who reported on the deployment of 1,300 black soldiers to Britain, noted: “The English people show our lads every possible courtesy and some of them, accustomed to ill-will, harsh words and artificial barriers, seem slightly bewildered. They never had a chance to leave their southern homes before and never realised there was a part of the world which was willing to forget a man’s colour and welcome him as a brother.” Arthur Guest, a member of the battalion, recalled: “It was a spark of light. A different way of living.” Hervieux records their billeting in places such as Checkendon, Oxfordshire, Pontypool and Chepstow. “Working-class people in the Welsh villages shared their meagre rations and the yield of their small kitchen gardens. Here they were Americans first.” Compare and contrast. A few weeks ago, I spoke to a Romanian, a driver, who said he has become wary of asking for directions because of abuse triggered by his accent. And the worst place for that in his recent experience? Genteel Tunbridge Wells. We can compare the arrogance of those who bully and smear foreigners now with those who did so years ago; with the white GIs who spread rumours that some of the black soldiers – even the college educated – could only bark and many had tails. We can compare the indolence of our government now with that of Churchill back then. We don’t “want to see lynching begin in England”, noted an aide to Anthony Eden, the foreign secretary. But when Churchill was told of a black GI being hounded from a restaurant by white colleagues, he suggested the soldier acquire a banjo and seek entry as a member of the band. Ordinary people, however, saw things differently. When a vicar’s wife from Somerset urged separatism, she was castigated. “There is and will be no persecution of coloured people in Britain,” thundered the Sunday Pictorial. When white GIs objected to black GIs at a village dance, they themselves were ordered to leave. To drive home the point, local people taunted the expelled GIs by buying the their black guests drinks. George Orwell, as ever, reflected the grassroots mood. “The general consensus of opinion seems to be that the only American soldiers with any manners are the Negroes,” he wrote in Tribune. Of course, the comparison is inexact. There is a difference between an influx of soldiers deployed during wartime and the modern examples of difference: Britons who look, speak and dress differently, economic migrants whose presence undoubtedly has an impact on schools, hospitals, jobs and housing. Those who bully and abuse can seek to justify their behaviour by pointing to the stresses that we know exist. Still there is something to be gleaned from the experience of the black battalion. They were not “othered” as dehumanised symbols, even when their presence caused debate and tension. They were seen as flesh and blood individuals. Jessie Prior, a Welsh woman who had never seen a non-white person before, sent a letter to New Jersey , to the mother of a black GI her family had befriended. “While he is here, we shall take every care of him,” she said. “We look upon him now as our own.” There are modern versions of her in every community. We should be proud of them, but it’s those who preach division who hog the limelight. With every racist act, every catcall, every rancid tweet, they betray Prior and all like her who once set a higher standard. We have been better than this, and can be again. Topics  Hate crime   Race issues   D-day   Second world war   Nigel Farage   Islam

Are we the nation suggested by the 41% spike in hate crimes that followed the Brexit vote? Where non-white Britons are abused in the street and people harangued for wearing the wrong clothes or presuming that they might speak in anything but English? Where Nadiya Hussain’s popularity after winning The Great British Bake Off could not save her from being confronted by the boor on a train who declared “I ain’t sitting near a Muslim”?

Where women wearing the hijab are attacked in the street. Where a dark-skinned woman exercising her constitutional legal right to challenge the executive is threatened and bullied by assailants who tell her – not that she may be wrong – but that she should leave the country? It feels close to that now. The spike has fallen from its peak; still equilibrium seems distant: the air seems toxic.

Wartime Britain’s welcome for black GIs was complicated | Letters Read more

And what is extraordinary is that no one in any position of power and authority is doing anything meaningful about it. Were the markets careering out of control, the chancellor would be touring television and radio stations trying to calm them. Were there to be a terrorist atrocity, the prime minister would rush to the scene.

The procedures for dealing with these big-ticket emergencies are well established. Not so the procedure for reacting to a dramatic erosion in the social glue. There is little by way of leadership from No 10. Nothing from the communities secretary to suggest his title is anything other than honorific. There was a statement from Robert Buckland, the solicitor general, declaring saying that levels of hate crimes – 2,778 incidents between 5 and 18 August – had declined to 2015 levels. Some reassurance. In the year to 2015, hate crimes, at 52,000 offences, had jumped more than a fifth.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An African American GI dances with a white woman at the Bouillabaisse Club in London’s New Compton Street, Soho, 1943. Photograph: Felix Man/Getty Images

This is business as usual, a new normal. Against the context of what is happening to minorities on the streets, on social media, that’s a dereliction of duty. All the more so because this acridity is not a given. We’re cranky now, with the handbrake off and inhibitions released, but at times more tense and fearful in our history we have been more willing to show kindness to people of difference. We have been better than this.

Wartime Britain and black GIs united through music | Letters Read more

Recently published in the UK is Forgotten: The Untold Story of D-Day’s Black Heroes, first released in the US, about the 320th Barrage Balloon Battalion, an 800-strong unit of black American soldiers whose contribution to the D-day landings had all but been erased from history. After landing on the beaches, they deployed armed balloons and deterred enemy aircraft – a task for which they largely prepared over seven months in the British countryside, having docked in the north of Scotland.

Before the arrival of the Empire Windrush and the advent of mass immigration, there was an influx of foreigners at a speed and on a scale to give Nigel Farage a coronary. They were soldiers during wartime, so of course they were met with gratitude, you might say; but the point is more specific for in the era of savagely enforced segregation in the US, white GIs showed a brutal and racist disdain for black GIs posted alongside them in Britain. And the British government, to curry favour with white, predominantly southern soldiers – and a like-minded US military establishment – offered the black GIs scant protection. Author Linda Hervieux located 12 of them, and the most striking thing they recall is the extraordinary extent to which ordinary British people – themselves deprived in a time of penury and rations – were their tigerish supporters, protectors and cheerleaders.

When white GIs objected to black GIs at a village dance, they themselves were ordered to leave

Ollie Stewart, a black American journalist, who reported on the deployment of 1,300 black soldiers to Britain, noted: “The English people show our lads every possible courtesy and some of them, accustomed to ill-will, harsh words and artificial barriers, seem slightly bewildered. They never had a chance to leave their southern homes before and never realised there was a part of the world which was willing to forget a man’s colour and welcome him as a brother.” Arthur Guest, a member of the battalion, recalled: “It was a spark of light. A different way of living.”

Hervieux records their billeting in places such as Checkendon, Oxfordshire, Pontypool and Chepstow. “Working-class people in the Welsh villages shared their meagre rations and the yield of their small kitchen gardens. Here they were Americans first.”

Compare and contrast. A few weeks ago, I spoke to a Romanian, a driver, who said he has become wary of asking for directions because of abuse triggered by his accent. And the worst place for that in his recent experience? Genteel Tunbridge Wells.

We can compare the arrogance of those who bully and smear foreigners now with those who did so years ago; with the white GIs who spread rumours that some of the black soldiers – even the college educated – could only bark and many had tails.

We can compare the indolence of our government now with that of Churchill back then. We don’t “want to see lynching begin in England”, noted an aide to Anthony Eden, the foreign secretary. But when Churchill was told of a black GI being hounded from a restaurant by white colleagues, he suggested the soldier acquire a banjo and seek entry as a member of the band.

National anti-hate crime campaign to launch after spike in incidents Read more

Ordinary people, however, saw things differently. When a vicar’s wife from Somerset urged separatism, she was castigated. “There is and will be no persecution of coloured people in Britain,” thundered the Sunday Pictorial. When white GIs objected to black GIs at a village dance, they themselves were ordered to leave. To drive home the point, local people taunted the expelled GIs by buying the their black guests drinks. George Orwell, as ever, reflected the grassroots mood. “The general consensus of opinion seems to be that the only American soldiers with any manners are the Negroes,” he wrote in Tribune.

Of course, the comparison is inexact. There is a difference between an influx of soldiers deployed during wartime and the modern examples of difference: Britons who look, speak and dress differently, economic migrants whose presence undoubtedly has an impact on schools, hospitals, jobs and housing. Those who bully and abuse can seek to justify their behaviour by pointing to the stresses that we know exist. Still there is something to be gleaned from the experience of the black battalion. They were not “othered” as dehumanised symbols, even when their presence caused debate and tension. They were seen as flesh and blood individuals.

Jessie Prior, a Welsh woman who had never seen a non-white person before, sent a letter to New Jersey, to the mother of a black GI her family had befriended. “While he is here, we shall take every care of him,” she said. “We look upon him now as our own.”

There are modern versions of her in every community. We should be proud of them, but it’s those who preach division who hog the limelight. With every racist act, every catcall, every rancid tweet, they betray Prior and all like her who once set a higher standard. We have been better than this, and can be again.