Tinder and Grindr linked to more than 500 crimes, figures show
Tinder and Grindr linked to more than 500 crimes, figures show

ating apps have been linked to more than 500 crimes in England and Wales – and almost a third are sex offences, figures show. More than 500 people have been the alleged victims of crimes ranging from murder and rape to child abuse as a result of using popular dating apps, data reveals. The figure comes after serial killer Stephen Port was last month convicted of murdering four men he met on gay dating websites and apps, such as Grindr. Data compiled by almost three-quarters of police forces across England and Wales listed 523 crimes from the past five years where official logs included the words Tinder or Grindr. mong the highest incidences of crime linked to them, 98 were recorded in London, 58 in Greater Manchester and 49 in Merseyside, the reported using information from Freedom of Information requests. Across the country, officers reported at least 162 sex offences connected to the two apps, including 63 rapes. In 2016, Greater Manchester Police recorded 12 rapes. Only two were logged a year earlier. Forces reported several sex attacks on children plus cases of grooming, child prostitution and child abuse images. Thefts, assaults, harassment and malicious messages were commonplace. Drug trafficking, blackmail and criminal damage were also reported. Tony Neate, chief executive of the organisation Get Safe Online, said: "Dating, and the way we meet potential partners, has seen a huge change as a result of the internet, social media and mobile phone apps. "While online platforms such as Tinder and Grinder are making it easier for busy people to meet others, the risk of meeting someone who is abusive or physically violent also increases. "It is concerning to see this rise in the number of crimes involving dating apps, and particularly worrying to hear of the number of young people falling victim to sexual offences." e added: "There are, however, a number of ways to vet a potential date before you decide to meet them face to face, which could protect you from a risky situation. Firstly, pick a username that doesn’t reveal who you are. Also take things slowly when it comes to sharing personal information or content with someone new online, remember that they are still a stranger who you know little about. "Similarly, it doesn’t hurt to do some investigation of your own before you decide to meet up – see if the person you’re interested in is on sites like Facebook or Twitter. "If you do organise to meet someone face-to-face for the first time, make sure you arrange your date for a public place and ensure a friend or family member knows where you are and is at the end of the phone if things go badly. "Finally, trust your instincts – if it doesn’t feel quite right don’t be afraid to block or report the person, or leave the date before the end." Grindr and Tinder did not reply to requests for comment.

Dating apps have been linked to more than 500 crimes in England and Wales – and almost a third are sex offences, figures show.

More than 500 people have been the alleged victims of crimes ranging from murder and rape to child abuse as a result of using popular dating apps, data reveals.

The figure comes after serial killer Stephen Port was last month convicted of murdering four men he met on gay dating websites and apps, such as Grindr.

Data compiled by almost three-quarters of police forces across England and Wales listed 523 crimes from the past five years where official logs included the words Tinder or Grindr.