Cabinet documents detail resistance to allowing homosexuals to serve in Australian military



Cabinet documents detail resistance to allowing homosexuals to serve in Australian military

Updated

The Keating Government was warned that allowing homosexuals into the military could destroy group cohesion and affect the ability of the Defence Force to attract young recruits, according to newly released Cabinet documents.

Previously top secret Cabinet papers from 1992 and 1993, made public today by the National Archives of Australia, detail how Paul Keating's cabinet grappled over whether to lift a ban on gays and lesbians entering the military.

The "cabinet-in-confidence" documents outline how then attorney-general Michael Duffy pushed to overturn the restrictions, as well as the case against made by then defence minister Robert Ray, who was apparently reflecting the view of Defence.

At the time, the Australian Defence Force (ADF) maintained and enforced a homosexual ban, but in 1992 it had also just adopted a new policy declaring it had no concern with the sexual activity of members so long as they did not interfere with military requirements.

According to the 1986 Defence direction, which banned homosexual behaviour, the practice was considered "prejudicial to effective command relationships and to the maintenance of the high levels of morale and discipline necessary for the efficient functioning of the ADF".

In a submission to Cabinet in November 1992, Mr Duffy highlighted the contradiction.

"The problem is that the 1986 and 1992 policies are mutually inconsistent," he observed.

At the same time, the attorney-general's colleague, defence minister Robert Ray, also made a last unsuccessful bid to keep the ban, until a comprehensive survey of attitudes among defence leaders and members was carried out.

"Homosexual behaviour or tendencies destroy the intimate bonding of the group because of the fear that the physical and psychological elements of military cohesion may be misrepresented and mistrusted as sexual in nature and, therefore, intrusive and threatening," the defence minister argued in a Cabinet submission.

Mr Ray also warned his cabinet colleagues that allowing homosexuals to serve could hamper military recruitment.

"It is likely that a change in homosexual policy would influence the readiness of parents to permit their children to join the ADF and adversely affect its ability to recruit from the very important under-18 age bracket," his submission argued.

Cabinet was unconvinced and decided to immediately lift the ban in 1992, putting Australia ahead of many comparable militaries, including the UK and US, which only lifted restrictions a decade later.

Topics: defence-forces, sexuality, federal-government, government-and-politics, australia

First posted