Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds to be buried together
Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds to be buried together
Carrie Fisher, the world famous actress best known for her role as Princess Leia in the Star Wars franchise, will be buried together with her mother, the iconic actress Debbie Reynolds, according to Reynold's son Todd Fisher. The two renowned actresses died one day apart, on Dec. 27 and 28 . A date for the funeral has not been set, but the joint funeral will be private, according to Reynolds' son. The two actresses will be interred at Forest Lawn-Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles, where Lucille Ball and other famous celebrities are buried. SEE ALSO: Star Wars gamers gather to honor Carrie Fisher "My mother and my sister are together right now," Fisher told the AP . Fisher died Tuesday at age 60 after falling ill while on a flight from London to Los Angeles. Her mother, 84, died a day later after being rushed to the hospital. Reynolds is best known for her leading role in the 1952 musical "Singing in the Rain," opposite Gene Kelly. Recently she had gained recognition among younger viewers from her role as Aggie Cromwell in Disney's films. Fisher and Reynolds had a close relationship, which was explored in Fisher's books, stage shows and talk show appearances. BONUS: Debbie Reynolds, Hollywood royalty and mother of Carrie Fisher, dies

Carrie Fisher, the world famous actress best known for her role as Princess Leia in the Star Wars franchise, will be buried together with her mother, the iconic actress Debbie Reynolds, according to Reynold's son Todd Fisher.

The two renowned actresses died one day apart, on Dec. 27 and 28.

A date for the funeral has not been set, but the joint funeral will be private, according to Reynolds' son. The two actresses will be interred at Forest Lawn-Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles, where Lucille Ball and other famous celebrities are buried.

SEE ALSO: Star Wars gamers gather to honor Carrie Fisher

"My mother and my sister are together right now," Fisher told the AP.

Fisher died Tuesday at age 60 after falling ill while on a flight from London to Los Angeles. Her mother, 84, died a day later after being rushed to the hospital.

Reynolds is best known for her leading role in the 1952 musical "Singing in the Rain," opposite Gene Kelly. Recently she had gained recognition among younger viewers from her role as Aggie Cromwell in Disney's Halloweentown films.

Fisher and Reynolds had a close relationship, which was explored in Fisher's books, stage shows and talk show appearances.