Azaria Chamberlain: Newly released NT Cabinet documents detail decision to review convictions



Azaria Chamberlain: Newly released NT Cabinet documents detail decision to review convictions

Updated

In 1986, Lindy Chamberlain was sitting in a Northern Territory jail cell having served three years of a life sentence for murdering her baby daughter, a murder she did not commit.

But as she watched her life tick by, in early February of 1986 a crucial discovery was made: police searching around Uluru for a British tourist who had slipped and fallen while attempting to climb the rock found baby Azaria Chamberlain's matinée jacket.

It was half-buried near dingo dens, not far from where her bloodied and ripped nappy and jumpsuit had been found after the nine-week-old disappeared from the family's tent in August 1980.

The discovery of the jacket "opened up a whole can of worms ... we had to find some way to get the whole case reviewed," former NT chief minister Stephen Hatton told the ABC.

On Sunday the Northern Territory Government released Cabinet documents from 1986 which underline its decision to inquire into the conviction of Ms Chamberlain and her then-husband Michael, who was found guilty of being an accessory to murder and given a suspended sentence of 18 months.

"We didn't believe the dingo story, but we didn't believe Lindy should be in jail for murder, we thought it was a harsh outcome," Mr Hatton said of the decision.

"There was a natural fairness about that decision, whether you thought her guilty or not."

It seems fitting, for such an historic and unusual case, that the NT Government had to create legislation to allow it to hold the Commission of Inquiry into the conviction of the Chamberlains, because a Territory royal commissions act did not exist.

"Much of the evidence at the trial ... was directed to the condition of clothing," Attorney-General Marshall Perron told NT Parliament at the second reading of the bill, included in the Cabinet documents.

"It may be that the fact of the finding of the jacket and other items in the place that it was found and its condition will throw additional light upon the circumstances of the child's disappearance."

He also said that the scope of the inquiry would be as wide as possible "given other doubts and questions in the minds of some of the public".

A nation divided

The Chamberlain case gripped the public imagination near to the point of hysteria.

At the time it was so inconceivable that a dingo could enter a tent and snatch and kill a baby, that the prosecution devised an elaborate theory that the Chamberlains had killed Azaria and faked her death. A 1982 jury agreed.

Witness accounts supported Chamberlain's story that a dingo took her daughter, but forensic evidence seemed to suggest she had taken the child into the family's yellow Torana and slit her throat, perhaps with a rusty pair of blunt scissors from the car's glovebox.

The trial was one of the most publicised in Australian history, and polarised the community.

Three inquests were held between 1980 and 1995 — the first finding that Azaria had been taken by a dingo, the second which led to the Chamberlains' convictions, and a third in 1995 which did not make a finding either way.

It wasn't until a fourth inquest was called that Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton and her ex-husband Michael were finally exonerated by NT coroner Elizabeth Morris in 2012.

'They were all fulfilling some godly plan'

Author John Bryson, who wrote Evil Angels, a non-fiction book about the case, which was adapted into a film starring Meryl Streep and Sam Neill, said he was drawn to the case by "the way the rumours were flying around about the Chamberlains being religious crackpots", and why the public was so willing to believe the worst.

At the time, the Seventh Day Adventist Church was little known, he said.

"The first extraordinary rumours that went around were that [Michael Chamberlain] had sacrificed his child on the top of Ayers Rock to atone for the sins of the world," he said.

Lindy became a divisive figure due to her religion and its influence on her character and reactions, Mr Bryson said.

"She believed that they were all fulfilling some godly plan which she couldn't understand but she had to trust in," he said.

"She was surrounded by a baying pack of anti-religious people and she despised them."

Judged by the court of public opinion

Veteran ABC journalist Tony Eastley also covered the 1982 murder trial and recently described the media frenzy that attended it:

"It was a circus: cameramen, sound catchers and press photographers jostling for position, all under the hammer to get the best shots for the afternoon tabloid dailies. And then there was the gaggle of hangers-on, for and against the accused," he wrote.

"The trial was a tabloid editor's dream."

My Bryson said the public was enticed by watching a murder mystery unfold on television, and reacted accordingly.

"We got into the spirit of the hunt," he said.

Mr Bryson said that in hindsight there was little doubt the couple would be found guilty due to the frenzy that led up to the trial.

"The public became the court of law because the prejudicial pre-trial publicity ensured that nearly everyone in the country believed in her guilt," he said.

Former NT News journalist Frank Alcorta interviewed Ms Chamberlain in October 1985, and said it was evident her case was not clear-cut.

"There were altogether too many shades, too many shadows that had to be explored in detail, and that her conviction may be wrong," he said.

'How can people have believed all this?'

Mr Alcorta said he had no opinion one way or the other whether Ms Chamberlain was innocent or guilty.

"There was something shifty about her, in my view, and something I could not bring myself to trust, but all the same, the facts were the facts," he said.

"It was quite clear the child had been taken out and that Lindy Chamberlain was not to blame for her disappearance."

He said his friend who worked as a ranger at Uluru told him repeatedly that dingoes "despite public perception actually had every possibility, every potential to take a baby with their jaws and drag them out".

He said people also tended to ignore another significant conclusion from a German laboratory, which found faults with the forensic evidence that helped convict Ms Chamberlain.

Mr Bryson said that never before or since the Chamberlains had there been a case "in which a miscarriage of justice was so clearly evident".

"When we look back at the evidence that was believed and resulted in the guilty verdict, the most feasible reaction is derision: how can people have believed all this and accepted evidence that was clearly preposterous?" he said.

For the Chamberlains, it would be a long battle to full vindication, and another 26 years before Azaria's death certificate would be amended to read: "The cause of her death was as the result of being attacked and taken by a dingo."

Topics: murder-and-manslaughter, law-crime-and-justice, animal-attacks, alice-springs-0870, nt, yulara-0872, darwin-0800

First posted