US Plans Futuristic #MakeInIndia Combat Choppers + 5 News Stories From New Year's Eve
US Plans Futuristic #MakeInIndia Combat Choppers + 5 News Stories From New Year's Eve
US Plans Futuristic #MakeInIndia Combat Choppers + 5 News Stories From New Year's Eve The US has now proposed joint development and production of futuristic military helicopters as well as infantry combat vehicles in the first such big-ticket programmes under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI) with India. Top government sources said the two projects would be discussed threadbare in the ensuing DTTI meeting (probably February) after the Donald Trump administration takes over in the US on January 20. India has already shown interest in the US offer for participation in its "future vertical-lift (FVL) aircraft" programme, which includes development of five different helicopters or "capability sets" over the next 15 years at a cost of around $8 billion, said the sources. It’s New Year’s Eve and returning from a party you might run into cops stationed at crossroads across the city. With police strictly enforcing the new prohibition policy, you might have to take a breath test to check for liquor consumption. The only hitch: you might have to blow into the same mouthpiece used by the person before you. Doctors term this dangerous as bacteria or virus can easily be transmitted from one person to other. It can also result in transmission of infectious diseases like HIV. For years, she has fought for the rights of the LGBT community. Now she's asserted her own. On Wednesday, Madhuri Sarode, a transgender, married Jay Kumar Sharma, who she has been dating for two years, at a temple in Mumbai. The two met on Facebook and there was an instant connect, but it would be another two years before Madhuri finally popped the question. The two decided that they would get married according to Hindu customs and found no reason to hide their relationship from the world. Typing out Thatspersonal.com on your computer screen while at work will most probably lead you to a page that reads 'Access denied'. An online marketplace for adult pleasure and sexual wellness products is not considered healthy viewing, even for purely work reasons — a reflection of what some of these startups experience when they knock on investors' doors: no love at all. Experts believe that a notion of cultural taboo along with legal concerns come in the way of adult products portals such as Thatspersonal.com, ImBesharam and ItsPleazure from raising funds from institutional investors, despite dynamics such as 100 per cent year-on-year growth and operating margins of over 30 per cent.

The US has now proposed joint development and production of futuristic military helicopters as well as infantry combat vehicles in the first such big-ticket programmes under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI) with India.

representational image

Top government sources said the two projects would be discussed threadbare in the ensuing DTTI meeting (probably February) after the Donald Trump administration takes over in the US on January 20. India has already shown interest in the US offer for participation in its "future vertical-lift (FVL) aircraft" programme, which includes development of five different helicopters or "capability sets" over the next 15 years at a cost of around $8 billion, said the sources.

1. This New Years, Think Twice Before Using The Breathalyser Test, As It Can Carry Dangerous Diseases

It’s New Year’s Eve and returning from a party you might run into cops stationed at crossroads across the city. With police strictly enforcing the new prohibition policy, you might have to take a breath test to check for liquor consumption.

BCCL/representational image

The only hitch: you might have to blow into the same mouthpiece used by the person before you. Doctors term this dangerous as bacteria or virus can easily be transmitted from one person to other. It can also result in transmission of infectious diseases like HIV.

2. Mumbai Sees Its First 'Open' Transgender Marriage In A Temple

For years, she has fought for the rights of the LGBT community. Now she's asserted her own. On Wednesday, Madhuri Sarode, a transgender, married Jay Kumar Sharma, who she has been dating for two years, at a temple in Mumbai.

Facebook/Aher Abheena

The two met on Facebook and there was an instant connect, but it would be another two years before Madhuri finally popped the question. The two decided that they would get married according to Hindu customs and found no reason to hide their relationship from the world.



3. 'Sex Wellness' Online Boomed By 100%, But Investors Are Too Ashamed To Raise Funding

MOIFIGHTCLUB/representational image

Typing out Thatspersonal.com on your computer screen while at work will most probably lead you to a page that reads 'Access denied'. An online marketplace for adult pleasure and sexual wellness products is not considered healthy viewing, even for purely work reasons — a reflection of what some of these startups experience when they knock on investors' doors: no love at all. Experts believe that a notion of cultural taboo along with legal concerns come in the way of adult products portals such as Thatspersonal.com, ImBesharam and ItsPleazure from raising funds from institutional investors, despite dynamics such as 100 per cent year-on-year growth and operating margins of over 30 per cent.

4. After Drone Deliveries, Amazon Is Planning A Flying Warehouse

Twitter

Forget drone deliveries, American e-commerce giant Amazon announced that they fly a warehouse at an altitude of around 45,000 feet that would act as a launchpad for drones, with an aim to deliver consignments in a jiffy, media reports said today. It is after winning a patent for flying the warehouse in the US, that Amazon announced plans for an "airborne fulfillment center" (AFC) such as an airship.

5. New York Creates Wall Of 40 Ton Garbage Trucks To Defend Times Square NY Celebrations!

65 20-ton garbage trucks, loaded with extra 15 tons of sand, will be a wall around the New York's iconic New Year's Eve celebration in Times Square, officials said Thursday. This move is meant to stop deadly truck-driving attacks into crowds like those in Germany and France

baltimoredave flickr

This is just one of the contingency plans, along with 100 patrol cars, at intersections surrounding Times Square, and 7,000 officers, specially armed counterterrorism units and bomb-sniffing dogs. "We live in a changing world now," New York Police Department Commissioner James O'Neil said. "It can't just be, 'What happens in New York, what happens in the United States?' It has to be more, 'What happens worldwide?'"