ESPN Graphic Shows Two Louisville Players Listed Out From Citrus Bowl Due to 'Gunshot Wounds'
ESPN Graphic Shows Two Louisville Players Listed Out From Citrus Bowl Due to 'Gunshot Wounds'
New Year's Eve means that bowl season in college football is in full swing. The No. 20-ranked LSU Tigers (7-4) are playing the No. 13 Louisville Cardinals (9-3) in the Citrus Bowl, and it's been a no-show so far for this year's Heisman winner Lamar Jackson . The Cardinals quarterback, who spent most of this year dominating teams by himself , is having a subpar game with no touchdowns thrown. This continues his cold streak with no rushing or passing TD in the first half in three of his past four games. But that's not the only reason why the Cardinals have been down in the game. They have lost a huge chunk of their defense, down five keys players including two cornerbacks, a safety, and two linebackers due to injuries. ESPN is broadcasting the game, and had a graphic revealing that two of the players are out due to gunshot wounds. Most #2016 thing ever #CitrusBowl  pic.twitter.com/CJbmgC65WP Ankle, ankle, hamstring, gunshot wound, gunshot wound. pic.twitter.com/IZtMZVRkKQ They listed "gunshot wound" like it's a common ACL injury 😂 pic.twitter.com/ftbYv5hVef The Cardinals' James Hearns was reportedly shot in the elbow at a party within an off-campus apartment complex in Louisville, Kentucky on Dec. 11. This was after his teammate Jackson won the Heisman the previous Saturday night (Dec. 3). His other teammate, Henry Famurewa, was shot in the foot and arm during the same incident. To list gunshot wounds on the TV graphic like it's a common thing in college football is jarring. Well, sadly to say, gunplay in college football is happening too often and ESPN just can't sugarcoat this reality anymore. sportstips@complex.com

New Year's Eve means that bowl season in college football is in full swing. The No. 20-ranked LSU Tigers (7-4) are playing the No. 13 Louisville Cardinals (9-3) in the Citrus Bowl, and it's been a no-show so far for this year's Heisman winner Lamar Jackson. The Cardinals quarterback, who spent most of this year dominating teams by himself, is having a subpar game with no touchdowns thrown. This continues his cold streak with no rushing or passing TD in the first half in three of his past four games.

But that's not the only reason why the Cardinals have been down in the game. They have lost a huge chunk of their defense, down five keys players including two cornerbacks, a safety, and two linebackers due to injuries. ESPN is broadcasting the game, and had a graphic revealing that two of the players are out due to gunshot wounds.

They listed "gunshot wound" like it's a common ACL injury 😂 pic.twitter.com/ftbYv5hVef — Henry of House Stark (@DeionGottaSTFU) December 31, 2016

The Cardinals' James Hearns was reportedly shot in the elbow at a party within an off-campus apartment complex in Louisville, Kentucky on Dec. 11. This was after his teammate Jackson won the Heisman the previous Saturday night (Dec. 3). His other teammate, Henry Famurewa, was shot in the foot and arm during the same incident.

To list gunshot wounds on the TV graphic like it's a common thing in college football is jarring. Well, sadly to say, gunplay in college football is happening too often and ESPN just can't sugarcoat this reality anymore.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.