Trump Tweets New Year's Wishes, 'Including to My Many Enemies'
Trump Tweets New Year's Wishes, 'Including to My Many Enemies'
Shares               President-elect Donald Trump today tweeted New Year's wishes "including to my many enemies."  Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don't know what to do. Love!  His post, as usual with Trump's tweets , quickly received many replies from both supporters and opponents. The president-elect will be spending his New Year's Eve at his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. He'll be throwing a private party that is expected to draw hundreds of guests, including action star Sylvester Stallone. Shares                  Trump Tweets New Year's Wishes, 'Including to My Many Enemies'   ICE Says Arrests in Surge Actions Not Linked to Trump Order   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   Decision Scorecard: Who Came Out on Top in the Travel Ban Ruling   Key Takeaways from Ruling on Trump's Immigration Order   Trump Considers 'Brand New' Executive Order After Court Setback   Virginia Adds Another Challenge to Travel Ban   Trump: 'Good Chemistry' With Japan’s Leader, 'Getting Along Very Well' With China   Rosie O'Donnell Will Not Play Steve Bannon on 'SNL' -- This Weekend, Her Rep Says   Trump Vows to Unveil 'Additional Security' After Slamming Court Ruling as 'Disgraceful'   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   The Note: The Kerfuffle Over the Court’s Decision   Inside Trump's Relationship With Japanese Prime Minister Abe   Powerful Quake Kills at Least 6 in Southern Philippines   Ex-Knick Oakley Banned From MSG After Arrest   Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed

President-elect Donald Trump today tweeted New Year's wishes "including to my many enemies."

Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don't know what to do. Love! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 31, 2016

His post, as usual with Trump's tweets, quickly received many replies from both supporters and opponents.

The president-elect will be spending his New Year's Eve at his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. He'll be throwing a private party that is expected to draw hundreds of guests, including action star Sylvester Stallone.