The Rich Kids of Instagram are seeing out 2016 in style
Wave goodbye to 2016 with the Rich Kids of Instagram


Sipping Dom Perignon in a VIP club or sailing down the French coast on a yacht full of models may be a New Year's Eve fantasy for most, but for the Rich Kids of Instagram it's just another night out.

The 20-something CEOs, heirs and models - who boast hundreds of thousands of social media followers between them - are welcoming 2017 with levels of extravagance very few could even dream of.

Businessman Benedict Kusay and his seven best friends have given an open invite for 'gorgeous women' to join them for a night of champagne, dance music and 'fireworks' aboard their rented yacht off the coast in Normandy.

Party time: In typical fashion, the Rich Kids of Instagram are seeing of 2016 in a flurry of champagne, multi-million villas, lavish ski-trips and VIP tables in the world's hottest clubs. Travel blogger Mon Rovi, above, 25, will be sipping bubbly with her friends at a ski resort for the rich and famous in the Pyrenees

Lovin' it: Kev Kouyoumjian, 34, CEO of the multi-million World Tech Toys company, will be spending the new year in a six bedroom, £30m villa in the Aspen mountains with his family

Ringing in 2017: Tom Ierna, 23, whose father made his fortune in the stock market, will spend New Year's in New York's Lavo nightclub, the venue which threw this Christmas party

Oh la la: Czech fashion blogger Barbora Ondrackova, 20, pictured enjoying a glass of champagne at the Shangri-La hotel in Paris, is jetting off to spend New Year's in Abu Dhabi with her boyfriend

Paradise: German entrepreneur Benedict Kusay, pictured, and his friends have rented a yacht to sail down the French coast and have invited 'beautiful women' on social media to join them

Spanish beauty Mon Rovi is retreating to a ski resort for the rich and famous in the Pyrenees, where she expects her champagne-fuelled friends to be 'dancing on the tables' in the middle of the day.

Some of the Rich Kids are keeping it low key.

Toy empire heir Kev Kouyoumjian will spend the night at a £30million villa in Aspen with his family and Czech fashion blogger Barbora Ondrackova is jetting off to Abu Dhabi with her boyfriend.

But their nights of wild partying and luxury are not worlds apart from any other weekend because, as Mr Ierna explained: 'Luxury is not a trend, it's a way of life.'

A YACHT, £6,000 WORTH OF ALCOHOL AND AN OPEN INVITATION TO 'BEAUTIFUL WOMEN'

On board a luxury yacht somewhere off the coast of France, eight wealthy young men will be seeing in the New Year with 32 women.

German entrepreneur Benedict Kusay, 21, and his close friends all chipped in to hire out the 121ft-long boat before putting out an open invitation for 'beautiful women' on their social media accounts.

'We are still looking for 22 beautiful woman who want to attend the party for free,' Bavaria-born Benedict wrote on Instagram four weeks ago.

Much to the excitement of his friends in the comment section, he went on: 'We are offering free alcohol and non-alcoholic drinks (two barkeepers will be present), free food, free hookah.

'We are also planning to film an amazing mannequin challenge video so if you are willing to participate, this event is perfect for you.

Lap of luxury: Entrepreneur Benedict Kusay, pictured at the Le Bar cocktail bar in Frankfurt, is spending New Year's Eve on a rented yacht on the French coast

Party prep: His Instagram followers were shown what he packed for his trip to France, where he and seven of his friends will party the night away. The items included two passports, two bottles of Belvedere vodka, a Louis Vuitton bag and wads of €50 notes

The businessman promises 'great music, free boarding, free accommodation on the yacht and a lot of fireworks'.

It has five bedrooms, five bathrooms, a kitchen, living room, bar and three sun decks.

He told MailOnline how he and his friends, who he connected with over their mutual interests and wealth on Instagram, thought of the idea after a hunting party.

Benedict added: 'We wanted to celebrate NYE together. We felt it would not be convenient to us to go to a club.

'Eight of us financed it, however my company paid for most of the positions. We invited women to come through an advertisement on the official RKOI page.'

The group spent more than £6,000 stocking the yacht with 'masses' of Moet, Armand, Louis Roederer, Veuve, Dom Perignon, Belvedere vodka and whisky for the epic party - on top of the undisclosed fee it cost to rent the luxury boat.

A Sunseeker yacht of the same length costs around £95,000 a week to rent.

Fast lane: Benedict promised the girls who attend their party 'great music, free boarding, free accommodation on the yacht and a lot of fireworks'. Next to this photo of a Louis Vuitton bag on a yellow Lamborghini, he wrote: 'Why are there no Lamborghini commercials ? Because the people who can afford them don't sit around and watch TV all day'

'All my favourite things': This photo of a bottle of Dom Perignon, designer shopping bags, a £300 Hermes belt and a wad of €50 notes shows what businessman Benedict is packing

'It's about having fun and meeting new people, making each one's network grow,' he said.

In one of his newest Instagram post he showed off his packing for the road trip to France.

The items included: Two bottles of Belvedere vodka, a £300 black leather Hermes belt, keys to his Audi, a £500 Louis Vuitton travel bag, wads of €50 notes and two passports.

Benedict - whose Instagram account is replete with garish Lamborghinis, Versace shopping bags and high end vodka bottles - is studying for a Bachelors degree in commerce at the University of Melbourne.

Alongside a photo of him behind the wheel of a Ferrari, he wrote: 'Who of you are already missing summer?'

'Unfortunately you can't go shopping with this car, the boot is so small,' the young businessman wrote next to another photo of himself standing by a yellow Lamorghini parked outside a Chanel store in Frankfurt.

No expense spared: Benedict and his friends spent more than £6,000 stocking the yacht with 'masses' of Moet, Armand, Louis Roederer, Veuve, Dom Perignon, Belvedere vodka and whisky for the epic party

The caption with another image featuring a wad of €50 notes, a bottle of Dom Perignon and a fluffy cat read: 'All my favourite things.'

To those who criticise him for flaunting his lavish lifestyle, Tom says: 'I understand that some people like to waste their time complaining about others.

'I encourage these people to bring more positivity into their lives and focus on their dreams and goals.'

THE GLOBE TROTTING SPANIARD DANCING INTO 2017 IN THE 'IBIZA OF WINTER'

Travel blogger Mon Rovi is swapping the five-star luxury of the Four Seasons in Bali for the ski slopes of Baqueira-Beret, in the heart of the Spanish Pyrenees.

With the champagne flowing under the winter sun from 2pm, the Barcelona-born beauty says it won't be long before she and her stunning friends are the centre of attention at the swanky Moet Winter Lounge.

'What starts as an innocent glass of champagne ends up with everyone dancing on the tables!' she told MailOnline before jetting off to the 'Ibiza of Winter', whose exclusivity has made it a must-visit skiing hotspot for the rich and famous including the Spanish royal family.

Glowing: Travel blogger Mon Rovi, pictured, 25, is leaving the Four Seasons hotel in Bali for the equally luxurious Spanish Pyrnees where she will be staying at her family's villa overlooking the picturesque valley of Baqueira-Beret

Life of luxury: Mon and her friends - who are flying in from as far as Mexico - will start their celebrations at the very exclusive Moet Winter Lounge. 'What starts as an innocent glass of champagne ends up with everyone dancing on the tables!' she excitedly told MailOnline

Wanderlust: Mon, who has travelled to eight countries in 2016, says she will start the day on her favourite champagne - the £100-a-bottle Ruinart which is aged in 200-year-old cellars

She went on: 'The day time parties take place in the middle of the slopes. When people arrive to have a ski-break and then the DJ starts to put the music louder and the champagne keeps flowing.

MON'S 2016 TRAVEL LIST The sensational cities, beaches and resorts visited by Mon in 2016 could easily populate one person's life-long bucket list. Excluding Baqueira, she has travelled to 17 cities across eight countries. They are: French Alps (Courchevel) United Arab Emirates (Dubai and Abu Dhabi) Spain (Sevilla, Madrid, Costa Brava, Ibiza, Formentera, Menorca) Poland (Warsaw) Greece (Mykonos for four-day birthday celebration) London for fashion week Mexico (Mexico City, San Luis Potosi, Cancun and Tulum) Indonesian island of Bali Now travelling to Baqueira, Spanish Pyrenees, for New Year's Eve

'We are definitely the life of the party! Wherever we go, you will notice us. I love dancing and having fun with my friends.

'It's [Baqueira] a very well kept secret. The ski resort is not as well known as Gstaad or St Mortiz and that's what makes it special.

Once they have had enough champagne (her drink of choice is the £100-a-bottle Ruinart which is aged in 200-year-old cellars) they will make the six-mile journey to the rustic town of Arties for a spot of lunch.

A New Year's tasting menu at one of Mon's favourite restaurants, Biniaran, costs around £115.

From there they will see in the New Year at one of the village's low-key nightclubs where, as Spanish tradition dictates, they will eat 12 grapes at the stroke of midnight, although Mon says 'taking 12 sips of champagne does the trick'.

Mon, whose father is a Spanish businessman and trade union leader, is staying at her family's sprawling home which overlooks the snow topped Val d'Aran valley.

The nomadic Spaniard, who attended the £60,000-a-year Brillantmont boarding school in Switzerland, has previously spent New Year's with her family in the Seychelles, Puerto Rico, Bali, Mauritius, the Dominican Republic and Mexico.

Centre of attention: 'We are definitely the life of the party! Wherever we go, you will notice us,' she said of her equally stunning friends, who will head to the nearby town of Arties when they are done sipping bubbly and tanning at the Moet Winter Lounge

Wining and dining: Mon and her friends will dine in one of Arties' fine eateries, with a New Year's tasting menu at one of Mon's favourite restaurants Biniaran, pictured, costing around £115

Dance the night away: After dinner Mon and her friends will head to one of Arties' low-key nightclubs where, as Spanish tradition dictates, they will eat 12 grapes at the stroke of midnight

Mon's enviable Instagram account, followed by more than 50,000, sees her in some of the most exotic hotels, beaches and resorts in the world.

Just some of her beautifully crafted images show the travel queen relaxing in an infinity pool in the £600-a-night Four Seasons hotel in Bali, swimming in the crystal clear water of the British Virgin Islands and enjoying a £45 lobster paella in her native Barcelona.

She's also pictured partying with hotel heiress Paris Hilton at the Amnesia nightclub in Ibiza - where she was staying at the Ibiza Luxury Apartments - but she insists she does not use her social media to show off.

Mon told MailOnline: 'I never flaunt my wealth, I take pictures of the places I travel to.

'I never intend to make anyone jealous, I intend to show my followers the beautiful places in the world I go to and inspire people to travel and explore the world around us.'

Sun kissed: The nomadic Spaniard, pictured, has previously spent New Year's with her family in the Seychelles, Puerto Rico, Bali, Mauritius, the Dominican Republic and Mexico

Humble: Despite her enviable snaps, including this one of her relaxing an infinity pool in Bali, Mon insists she does not flaunt her wealth: 'I never intend to make anyone jealous, I intend to show my followers the beautiful places in the world I go to and inspire people'

THE CZECH BEAUTY ENJOYING A ROMANTIC BREAK IN ABU DHABI

From her extravagant holiday destinations to her expensive clothing, fashion blogger Barbora Ondrackova is used to the finest things in life.

The globe trotting Czech beauty, 20, will be spending New Year's in Abu Dhabi where she will sit down to a romantic dinner with her boyfriend.

For Barbora, who has attended all the 'big' fashion weeks in London, Milan, Paris and Milan, December 31 is a 'special night' to be celebrated with her nearest and dearest.

Despite sporting trendy outfits which cost more than some people's cars, she shrugs the difference between her seemingly luxurious life and that of her 315,000 Instagram followers.

Romantic break: Fashion blogger Barbora Ondrackova, pictured, who has visited 19 different beautiful cities this year, will be spending New Year's Eve in Abu Dhabi

Globetrotter: The nomadic Czech, 20, will be spending New Year's in Abu Dhabi where she will sit down to a romantic dinner with her boyfriend, whom she barely sees because her job takes her all over the world

Fine tastes: Czech born Barbora, pictured in bed at the Rockefeller Center in New York, is followed by more than 300,000 people on Instagram and her outfits cost in excess of £2,000

She has had a very busy year- visiting Berlin, Milano, Rome, Cancún, Sölden, Amsterdam, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, LA, San Diego, Las Vegas, Barcelona, Nice, Cannes, Monte Carlo, New York, Paris, Dubai and Abu Dhabí - but says there is 'no average' when it comes to lifestyle.

I'm not showing off. I worked three years, every day, to be able to live the life which I live now Barbora Ondrackova

While some may accuse her of flaunting her wealth, she insists she is 'not showing off', telling MailOnline: 'I worked three years, every day, to be able to live the life which I live now.'

'Technically I didn't have any vacation because, even though I'm going places, I still work there for my Instagram which is the source of my finances - not my family.

In the last few months, her Instagram account sees Barbora strolling down a beach in Dubai flanked by its famous skyline, sipping champagne in a bath tub in the up-market Shangri-La hotel in Paris and taking in the stunning view of the Barcelona marina from the W.

Jet setter: 'Technically I didn't have any vacation because, even though I'm going places, I still work there for my Instagram,' said Barbora, who has visited 19 luxurious cities in the last year. Pictured: At the airport waiting to board a flight to Abu Dhabi

Finer things: In the last few months alone, Barbora's Instagram account sees Barbora strolling down a beach in Dubai and sipping coffee on a balcony overlooking the Eiffel Tower in Paris, pictured

Around the world: Barbora has had a busy year- visiting Berlin, Milano, Rome, Cancún, Sölden, Amsterdam, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, LA, San Diego, Las Vegas, Barcelona, Nice, Cannes, Monte Carlo, New York, Paris, Dubai and Abu Dhabí

Barbora, who speaks five languages, was born in the Czech capital of Prague but studied the illustrious Friedrich-Schiller-Gymnasium high school in Germany.

For Christmas, she received sultry Agent Provocateur Demelza lingerie worth £150, a £140 black leather Yves Saint Laurent credit card holder and she gifted herself a vintage £750 Chanel pearl broach.

Just one of the ensembles she models on her website - made up of a Topshop knit dress, Zara coat, Chloe handbag, Celine sunglasses and Stuart Weitzman thigh high boots - costs in excess of £2,500.

A LOW KEY FAMILY HOLIDAY IN A £30MILLION SKI VILLA

Kev Kouyoumjian is a family man.

Instead of partying the night away at some VIP club he and his family will be together at a £40,000-a-night, six bedroom villa in Aspen.

For their brief stay, his parents Azniv and Jacques, and brother Vic, 29, will have access to the 'ultra luxurious' mansion's indoor swimming pool, home cinema, fitness centre and spa.

'We usually like to spend it with family as it's the most important people to be with,' he told MailOnline. 'We always travel somewhere special to make it a new destination.'

Low key: Kev Kouyoumjian, right, the CEO of a World Tech Toys which manufactures products for Toys R Us and Walmart, will be spending New Year's Eve at a £30m villa in Aspen, Colorado

Home from home: The luxurious villa, pictured, which costs around £40,000-a-night to rent, comes with six en-suite bedrooms

Comfort: The sprawling 15,000-square-feet mansion has a large living room with a grand piano and its bedrooms come with 'spa-like bathrooms boasting rainfalls showers or large soaker tubs'

Time for a splash: For their brief stay, Kev and his family will have access to the 'ultra luxurious' mansion's indoor swimming pool, pictured, home cinema, fitness centre and spa

Fly in style: 'We usually like to spend it with family as it's the most important people to be with,' said Kev, who says they flew there on a £20m Bombardier Challenger private jet

Don't be fooled by his demure New Year's Eve celebrations. The 34-year-old CEO of World Tech Toys, a toy manufacturer which supplies Walmart and Toys R Us, flew there on the family's £20million Bombardier Challenger private jet.

KEV'S CAR COLLECTION Lamborghini Aventador (£260,000 with £52,000 body kit upgrade) Rolls Royce Phantom (£347,000) Rolls Royce Wraith (£240,000) 2 X BMW i8 (£103,000) Mercedes G63 (£120,000) Mercedes SLS (£165,000) Cadillac Escalade Platinum Edition (£73,000) Hummer H1 (£104,000) BMW M4 (around £45,000) Two semi trucks

He also admitted to one very expensive addiction.

'I love exotic cars. I actually own 14 cars right now, it's a sickness,' he told MailOnline, trying to contain his laughter.

His most expensive motors are his £260,000 Lamborghini Aventador - which he kitted out with a £52,000 body kit, a Rolls Royce Phantom worth £347,000 and a £240,000 Rolls Royce Wraith.

Regular Instagram user Kouyoumjian, from LA, California, has posted photos of himself chilling on the wing of the family's jet, posing with his super cars and drinking £300 bottles of vintage Dom Perignon on a yacht off the coast of Cancun.

He said he is entertained by the hate he gets from other users, telling MailOnline: People talk bad about me for 'flaunting' but its mainly because people are jealous they cant have the same lifestyle as me.

'They always criticise every picture and every move we make so I give them more to talk about!

Living it up: Regular Instagram user Kouyoumjian, from LA, California, has posted photos of himself chilling on the wing of the family's jet and a photo of R&B superstar Chris Brown, left, who he gifted with some of his company's procuts

Addiction: Kev owns 14 super cars, the most expensive of which are his (left to right) £240,000 Rolls Royce Wraith, £260,000 Lamborghini Aventador - which he kitted out with a £52,000 body kit - and Rolls Royce Phantom worth £347,000

POPPING BOTTLES AT A £20,000-A-TABLE CLUB IN NEW YORK

'I like to surround myself with good looking people at all times,' says 23-year-old Tom Ierna.

The New Yorker's Instagram account is proof of that claim.

Other than his statuesque and obscenely photogenic friends, the social media manager is pictured with famous faces including supermodel Bella Hadid, heiress Paris Hilton and soon-to-be First Daughter Tiffany Trump.

The US-born party boy, whose father was involved in the stock market and investment for several years, has three equally enticing options for his NYE celebration: A house party in the Hamptons, a VIP club in New York City or a night out at Miami's finest restaurants and cocktail lounges.

Decisions, decisions: New Yorker Tom Ierna, centre, who is often pictured with celebrities including the soon-to-be First Daughter Tiffany Trump, left, is keeping his options open for New Year's Eve

Exotic: One of his three options for what promises to be an unforgettable night is a house party in Bridgehampton, the Hamptons, where the average house costs around £2.4million

Celeb company: Tom guarantees the invitation-only party will be full of beautiful people, telling MailOnline: 'I like to surround myself with good looking people at all times'

He says a very select 25 to 30 people will be invited to the house party in Bridgehampton which, according to Business Insider, is the seventh 'most expensive ZIP code in America' with an average sale price of around £2.4million.

'There will be a DJ and endless amounts of liquor I'm sure,' Tom coolly told MailOnline.

I always go VIP... I don't like to go to clubs unless I have a table to go to. Probably drinking bottles of Dom Tom Ierna, 23

'It's a beautiful, relatively large home and close to the beach. There will be beautiful girls as always.'

If Tom stays in New York he will go to either Up & Down club in Greenwich Village - frequented by the likes of Rihanna, Tyson Beckford, Lewis Hamilton and Miley Cyrus - or Lavo where a VIP table costs as much as £20,000 for the night.

The 20 person table would come with three magnum bottles of Belvedere Silver Saber vodka, 14 bottles of Dom Pérignon Luminous, two bottles of Don Julio Blanco and bottle service all night.

High end: If Tom stays in New York he will most likely party in Lavo, pictured, where a VIP table costs as much as £20,000 for the night

Star studded: The 20 person table would come with three magnum bottles of Belvedere Silver Saber vodka, 14 bottles of Dom Pérignon Luminous, two bottles of Don Julio Blanco and bottle service all night. Pictured: Tom with supermodel Bella Hadid at the Gilded Lily in New York

'I always go VIP,' said Tom, who has not confirmed he will be taking up the priciest option in the club. 'I don't like to go to clubs unless I have a table to go to. Probably drinking bottles of Dom.'

If he opts for Los Angeles, the wealthy New Yorker will stay at the Beverly Hills Hotel where rooms start at £450-a-night.

Tom, who got a Burberry suit which start at £660 and a Louis Vuitton duffle bag costing around £500 for Christmas, said: 'In LA we would be attending a house party in Bel Air and chances are it will be over the top.

'We will obviously be drinking bottles of Moët and Veuve Clicquot champagne along with some overpriced catered food.'

Despite his apparent wealth, Tom says his life feels 'ordinary' because he is surrounded by people who live the same way he does.

Bubbly: Tom, who got a Burberry suit which start at £660 and a Louis Vuitton duffle bag costing around £500 for Christmas, says he will undoubtedly spend the night drinking Dom Perignon champagne in LA

'A lot have more money than I do,' he says. 'Luxury is not a trend, its a way of life. I have expensive taste in every aspect of life.

'I share photos on Instagram because I enjoy doing it and I view it as a journal of my life.