Dalvin Cook Declares for 2017 NFL Draft: Latest Comments and Reaction
Dalvin Cook Declares for 2017 NFL Draft: Latest Comments and Reaction
The most productive running back in Florida State history announced the end of his collegiate career Saturday, as Cook declared for the 2017 NFL draft. Wayne McGahee III of the reported the news. While the Seminoles struggled at times in 2016, it wasn't Cook's fault, as he amassed an incredible 1,765 rushing yards with 19 touchdowns on the ground. Additionally, he had 488 receiving yards and caught a pass for a touchdown. That came on the heels of a dominant sophomore season in which Cook totaled 1,935 yards from scrimmage and 20 touchdowns en route to finishing seventh in Heisman Trophy voting. He picked up where he left off as a junior and made history by becoming the first Seminoles player to rush for 4,000 career yards, passing Warrick Dunn on the all-time list in the process. From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama The Best Names of the 2017 College Football Recruiting Class Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Top 5 Interior Linemen in the Class of 2017 Top 5 Offensive Tackles in the Class of 2017 Meet the Small School Prospect Who's Draft Stock Skyrocketed at 2017 Senior Bowl Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag 5-Star Devon Hunter on Why He Chose Virginia Tech Top 5 Athletes in the Class of 2017 Players the Country's 10 Best CFB Teams Will Miss the Most NFL Draft Live Insider Buzz: Jon Allen and Dalvin Cook Could Slide in NFL Draft Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home Way-Too-Early Odds on Next Year’s College Football National Champion Clemson Is Built to Beat Alabama: How the Crimson Tide Can Avoid a Monster Upset 5-Star CB Darnay Holmes Makes Hollywood Walk of Fame to Announce Decision Chad Hansen Declares for NFL Draft Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges CFB National Championship: X-Factors and Prediction for Alabama vs. Clemson Scout: Clemson's Ben Boulware on Dominating Ohio State Emotional Peppers Talks Injury, Game Reaction, Future Two Bargain QB Prospects That Could Be Draft-Day Steals Next Spring Joe Mixon Says Teammates Have Helped Him Through Process Breaking Down USC Offense vs. Penn State Defense Breaking Down USC Defense vs. Penn State Offense Drew Singleton Commits to Michigan Eastern Michigan Is Headed to a Bowl Game for the First Time in 29 Years Ranking the Top 5 Wildest Moments in College Football 2016 Insider Buzz: Trubisky Only Round 1 Lock in What Is 'Weakest QB Class Since 2013' Ranking the Top 5 Contenders to Watch Out for in 2017 Ranking the Top 5 Most Underrated QBs in College Football 2016 Ranking the Top 5 Rebound Teams for 2017 Vols Remark on Fournette: 'It's a Business Decision.' Inside the Top Ranked Defense in College Football 5-Star Lineman Walker Little Picks Stanford Lamar Jackson Discusses Heisman Weekend Adam Kramer's Locks for College Football Bowl Season Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Inside the Top-Ranked Offenses in College Football Miller: 2017 NFL Draft Tight End Class Could Be Historic Group College Football's Unknown Defense Living in Opponents' Backfields Insider Buzz: NFL Teams View DE Myles Garrett as Consensus Top Pick Over All QBs Exclusive: Will Notre Dame's Deshone Kizer Come Back or Leave for the NFL? Ranking the Top 5 Bowl Games We Can't Wait to Watch Matchup: Orange Bowl—Michigan vs. Florida State Heisman Finalists Reveal Who They Would Vote to Win Heisman Scout's Inside the Matchup: Stanford vs. North Carolina  Cook arguably had even more of a burden on his shoulders in 2016 than in 2015 thanks to the fact that freshman Francois started at quarterback. Francois often took a beating behind an offensive line that struggled to pass-block, so head coach Fisher leaned heavily on Cook as his workhorse. The 21-year-old has all the makings of a player who can carry an offense in the NFL as well. Although a national championship and a Heisman Trophy eluded him at Florida State, there was little incentive for him to return for his senior season given that it would have been difficult for him to improve upon the production he put up as a sophomore and a junior. Cook has first-round talent and figures to be among the top running backs off the board, which made entering the draft a sensible move. Considering his importance to Florida State, his usage likely would have been through the roof in 2017, and that could have increased his chance of an injury.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Don Juan Moore/Getty Images

The most productive running back in Florida State history announced the end of his collegiate career Saturday, as Dalvin Cook declared for the 2017 NFL draft.

Wayne McGahee III of the Tallahassee Democrat reported the news.

While the Seminoles struggled at times in 2016, it wasn't Cook's fault, as he amassed an incredible 1,765 rushing yards with 19 touchdowns on the ground. Additionally, he had 488 receiving yards and caught a pass for a touchdown.

That came on the heels of a dominant sophomore season in which Cook totaled 1,935 yards from scrimmage and 20 touchdowns en route to finishing seventh in Heisman Trophy voting.

He picked up where he left off as a junior and made FSU history by becoming the first Seminoles player to rush for 4,000 career yards, passing Warrick Dunn on the all-time list in the process.

From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama The Best Names of the 2017 College Football Recruiting Class Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Top 5 Interior Linemen in the Class of 2017 Top 5 Offensive Tackles in the Class of 2017 Meet the Small School Prospect Who's Draft Stock Skyrocketed at 2017 Senior Bowl Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag 5-Star Devon Hunter on Why He Chose Virginia Tech Top 5 Athletes in the Class of 2017 Players the Country's 10 Best CFB Teams Will Miss the Most NFL Draft Live Insider Buzz: Jon Allen and Dalvin Cook Could Slide in NFL Draft Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home Way-Too-Early Odds on Next Year’s College Football National Champion Clemson Is Built to Beat Alabama: How the Crimson Tide Can Avoid a Monster Upset 5-Star CB Darnay Holmes Makes Hollywood Walk of Fame to Announce Decision Chad Hansen Declares for NFL Draft Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges CFB National Championship: X-Factors and Prediction for Alabama vs. Clemson Scout: Clemson's Ben Boulware on Dominating Ohio State Emotional Peppers Talks Injury, Game Reaction, Future Two Bargain QB Prospects That Could Be Draft-Day Steals Next Spring Joe Mixon Says Teammates Have Helped Him Through Process Breaking Down USC Offense vs. Penn State Defense Breaking Down USC Defense vs. Penn State Offense Drew Singleton Commits to Michigan Eastern Michigan Is Headed to a Bowl Game for the First Time in 29 Years Ranking the Top 5 Wildest Moments in College Football 2016 Insider Buzz: Trubisky Only Round 1 Lock in What Is 'Weakest QB Class Since 2013' Ranking the Top 5 Contenders to Watch Out for in 2017 Ranking the Top 5 Most Underrated QBs in College Football 2016 Ranking the Top 5 Rebound Teams for 2017 Vols Remark on Fournette: 'It's a Business Decision.' Inside the Top Ranked Defense in College Football 5-Star Lineman Walker Little Picks Stanford Lamar Jackson Discusses Heisman Weekend Adam Kramer's Locks for College Football Bowl Season Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Inside the Top-Ranked Offenses in College Football Miller: 2017 NFL Draft Tight End Class Could Be Historic Group College Football's Unknown Defense Living in Opponents' Backfields Insider Buzz: NFL Teams View DE Myles Garrett as Consensus Top Pick Over All QBs Exclusive: Will Notre Dame's Deshone Kizer Come Back or Leave for the NFL? Ranking the Top 5 Bowl Games We Can't Wait to Watch Matchup: Orange Bowl—Michigan vs. Florida State Heisman Finalists Reveal Who They Would Vote to Win Heisman Scout's Inside the Matchup: Stanford vs. North Carolina

Cook arguably had even more of a burden on his shoulders in 2016 than in 2015 thanks to the fact that freshman Deondre Francois started at quarterback. Francois often took a beating behind an offensive line that struggled to pass-block, so head coach Jimbo Fisher leaned heavily on Cook as his workhorse.

The 21-year-old has all the makings of a player who can carry an offense in the NFL as well.

Although a national championship and a Heisman Trophy eluded him at Florida State, there was little incentive for him to return for his senior season given that it would have been difficult for him to improve upon the production he put up as a sophomore and a junior.

Cook has first-round talent and figures to be among the top running backs off the board, which made entering the draft a sensible move.

Considering his importance to Florida State, his usage likely would have been through the roof in 2017, and that could have increased his chance of an injury.

Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter.