'Oldest human in history' Mbah Gotho has party to celebrate turning 146
'Oldest human in history' has party to celebrate turning 146 


Mbah Gotho claims to be the oldest human ever at 146

A man who claims to be the oldest human ever has just had a party to celebrate turning 146.

Saparman Sodimejo, also known as Mbah Gotho, has an Indonesian ID card that purports his date of birth is December 31, 1870.

He celebrated his birthday with his living relatives in the Seragaen district of Central Java.

Attending his party were his grandson Suryanto and wife Suwarni, with their children Erika Kurniawati and Anisa Kurniawati, among other younger surviving relatives.

He has, unsurprisingly, outlived all 10 of his siblings as well as his four wives, the last of whom died in 1988.

All of his children have also died, and now he is survived by his grandchildren, great grandchildren, and great-great grandchildren.

Despite his alleged advanced age the man is still able to walk and move independently.

If correct, that makes him significantly older than the verified oldest person in the world ever, a title that belongs to French woman Jeanne Calment, who lived to be 122.

'He eats everything and has never even been ill,' a family member said.

Attending his party were his grandson Suryanto and wife Suwarni, with their children Erika Kurniawati and Anisa Kurniawati, among other younger surviving relatives

Whether or not he will ever be listed as the world's oldest man however is open to question, as his paperwork has so far not been independently verified

Suryanto, Mbah Gotho's grandson, said his grandfather has been preparing for his death ever since he was 122, but it never seemed to come.

He said: 'The gravestone there was made in 1992. That was 24 years ago.'

In addition, Suryanto said Mbah Gotho's family has already prepared a gravesite for him - near his children's graves.

Staff at the Indonesian records office have confirmed Mbah Gotho's birthdate, which is specified on his Indonesian ID card as 31st December 1870.

Saparman Sodimejo, also known as Mbah Gotho, has an Indonesian ID card that purports his birthday to be birthday to be December 31, 1970

Despite his alleged advanced age the man is still able to walk and move independently

Whether or not he will ever be listed as the world's oldest man however is open to question, as the paperwork has so far not been independently verified.

If so he will join to others without verifiable records who are purportedly older than Mbah Gotho - 171-year-old James Olofintuyi from Nigeria and 163-year-old Dhaqabo Ebba from Ethiopia.

These days, his grandchildren say Mbah Gotho mostly sits listening to the radio because his eyesight is too poor to watch television.