Here's How Millennials Are Preparing For Success In 2017
Here's How Millennials Are Preparing For Success In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lisa Rabasca Roepe       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. If you plan to use the final two weeks of 2016 to plot a successful 2017, you’ll want to do more than just buy a new planner, review your successes and failures from 2016, and set new goals for 2017. Courtesy of StockSnap/Nguyen Nguyen Reflecting on the good and the bad for 2016 isn’t enough, says Executive Coach Danielle Moser, principal and practice leader at blt Careers. “This is a time to ask yourself the difficult questions and calibrate yourself against the market and your target,” Moser says. For instance, if you were to be unemployed tomorrow, do you have the skills, knowledge and expertise to be hired into the job you held today? “The time to figure that out is when you have the role and the capacity to expand and grow,” she says. Here’s how several Millennials are preparing for a successful 2017. MaryBeth Hyland, 32, founder and chief visionary at SparkVision, creates a list of what depletes her energy at work and what motivates her. This year, an overbooked schedule is at the top of her “drain” list so Hyland is committing to not scheduling any more meetings in January or February to allow herself time to think strategically about her business. “I can take phone calls and schedule further out, but I will not grab coffee with someone who wants to catch up,” she says. “Just making that commitment to myself and my business has already given me a sense of relief.” Jordan Dollard, 25, plans to spend the last few weeks of 2016 meeting with other small business owners to get an outside perspective on how to achieve her goals. “I want to make sure that I’m not being too closed minded when I’m planning for the new year,” says Dollard, owner of Elsa Fine, a women's clothing store. “I always check in with my network this time of year,” says Annie Agle, 28, part owner of Development Three, a consulting firm. “In the last few weeks, I've touched base with several mentors to get their opinions on where they see my industry heading and to gather feedback on where they see me being the most useful.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you plan to use the final two weeks of 2016 to plot a successful 2017, you’ll want to do more than just buy a new planner, review your successes and failures from 2016, and set new goals for 2017.

Reflecting on the good and the bad for 2016 isn’t enough, says Executive Coach Danielle Moser, principal and practice leader at blt Careers. “This is a time to ask yourself the difficult questions and calibrate yourself against the market and your target,” Moser says. For instance, if you were to be unemployed tomorrow, do you have the skills, knowledge and expertise to be hired into the job you held today? “The time to figure that out is when you have the role and the capacity to expand and grow,” she says.

Here’s how several Millennials are preparing for a successful 2017.

Eliminate distractions

Take stock of what energizes you at work, and what leaves you drained. MaryBeth Hyland, 32, founder and chief visionary at SparkVision, creates a list of what depletes her energy at work and what motivates her. This year, an overbooked schedule is at the top of her “drain” list so Hyland is committing to not scheduling any more meetings in January or February to allow herself time to think strategically about her business. “I can take phone calls and schedule further out, but I will not grab coffee with someone who wants to catch up,” she says. “Just making that commitment to myself and my business has already given me a sense of relief.”

Gain another perspective

If you’re setting goals for 2017 consider asking mentors and colleagues for their input. Jordan Dollard, 25, plans to spend the last few weeks of 2016 meeting with other small business owners to get an outside perspective on how to achieve her goals. “I want to make sure that I’m not being too closed minded when I’m planning for the new year,” says Dollard, owner of Elsa Fine, a women's clothing store.

“I always check in with my network this time of year,” says Annie Agle, 28, part owner of Development Three, a consulting firm. “In the last few weeks, I've touched base with several mentors to get their opinions on where they see my industry heading and to gather feedback on where they see me being the most useful.”