WATCH: Obama Reflects on Term, Looks to Future in New Year's Message

WATCH: Obama Reflects on Term, Looks to Future in New Year's Message // // // //  President Obama recorded a celebratory New Year's message from the White House on Saturday, looking back at his accomplishments as the nation's chief executive and looking ahead to his plans when he returns to private life. Obama said that after President-elect Donald Trump takes office on January 20, he will take on the "even more important role of citizen", and pledged to continue supporting policies and practices that build on his legacy. "All of us deserve every chance to live out our dreams," Obama said. He reminded the public of his achievements, including more affordable education, ending healthcare discrimination and "tightening rules on Wall Street," saying that maintaining such efforts will require "all of us working together". Obama said it was the privilege of his life to serve as president and wished the public a "happy and blessed 2017." Watch his full message above and let us know what you think in the comments.

Rye Good-Bye: Famed Carnegie Deli Closes Its Doors After Nearly 80 Years

LOOK: Trump Wishes Happy New Year to All; 'Including My Enemies'

A 'Rocky' New Year: Sylvester Stallone to Attend Trump's Holiday Bash

President Obama recorded a celebratory New Year's message from the White House on Saturday, looking back at his accomplishments as the nation's chief executive and looking ahead to his plans when he returns to private life.

Obama said that after President-elect Donald Trump takes office on January 20, he will take on the "even more important role of citizen", and pledged to continue supporting policies and practices that build on his legacy.

"All of us deserve every chance to live out our dreams," Obama said.

He reminded the public of his achievements, including more affordable education, ending healthcare discrimination and "tightening rules on Wall Street," saying that maintaining such efforts will require "all of us working together".

Obama said it was the privilege of his life to serve as president and wished the public a "happy and blessed 2017."

Watch his full message above and let us know what you think in the comments.

Mormon Tabernacle Choir Member Resigns Over Inauguration Performance

D.L. Hughley Mocks Bristol Palin's Comments on Trump Inauguration

Would Obama Have Sanctioned Russia If Hacking Helped Hillary Win?