5 VR safety tips to stop you from destroying your home
5 VR safety tips to stop you from destroying your home
The new year may be upon us, but many of you are probably still playing with your holiday gifts, one of the most popular of which appears to be VR headsets . But if you take a look around social media, you'll notice a surprisingly common story popping up: People are getting so into virtual reality, they're destroying their real-world homes. SEE ALSO: Why wireless headsets for Oculus and Vive could be a step backward for VR Whether it's playing shooter titles like or athletic titles like , stories of people smashing their hands into their expensive televisions or computer monitors are becoming the new normal. Last night my sister bought my dad Drunken Bar Fight for his VR and you bet he almost punched a hole in the wall. :) — 🦊 Nayeli 🍄 (@lisiicaaa) December 25, 2016 I was doing VR and accidentally PUNCHED my brother. Feelings of guilt are at an all time high. — Collin Farias (@CollinFarias) December 25, 2016 My step dad punched a wall while playing Super Hot VR on Oculus Touch.. — Dyleone (@Dyleone_24) December 24, 2016 But don't let these tales of woe put you off VR, there's a safe way to work out, climb, shoot and lose yourself without wrecking your home. Before you jack into VR, try the following tips ... 1. Know your limits Both the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift have virtual boundary systems that allow you to designate a safe space in your living room to help you avoid hurting yourself or your furniture. But one of the most common mistakes I've seen is that people set the boundaries too close to the very edge of the space they have available. That's a mistake. #oculusrift 😍 A video posted by Jeremiah Robison (@jerrobison) on E.T. tancuje 😂 🙌 👏 #virtualnarealita #megazazitok #withher #virtualreality #htcvive #htc #technology #dancing #bestoftheday A video posted by Martin Kirnak (@m_kirnak) on Instead, when you're setting your virtual boundaries, try to give yourself at least an extra one to two feet beyond the margin, away from things you might smash. Using that method, even when you forget yourself and get a little too close to your virtual boundaries, you're still likely to avoid real damage. 2. Assault with a deadly VR It might sound wild, but I've heard a fair number of stories in the last couple of weeks of family members accidentally smacking one another while in VR. Obviously, it can be even worse if you have a pet or toddler who can't understand that you're flying on eagle wings in virtual space and might suddenly swing your arms or feet out unexpectedly. Cadence playing Fruit Ninja with Oculus Touch #oculustouch #oculusrift A photo posted by Rick Underwood (@trickydm61) on If you have roommates, pets or children, and you can't alert them that you're going into a VR experience, then try to close the space via a shut door or even a prominent note, "Be careful, I can't hear or see you while I'm in VR!" 3. Don't drunk VR Don't drink and VR. Full stop. Period. Do not pass GO. It might sound fun to drink alcohol with friends or alone and then dive into a trippy experience, but because VR requires balance and spatial awareness, jacking into virtual reality in an inebriated state is basically inviting a completely avoidable accident that could really hurt in the real world. You've been warned. 4. Sitting is safety Most of the accidents I've discovered happen when someone is standing while in VR. Getting people standing and active while interacting with a computer may have great long-term health impacts, but it could be dangerous if safety isn't prioritized. Another day hard at work! #oculus #oculusrift #ouculustouch #workhardplayhard A video posted by Clement Ng (@lookinco) on So if the previous safety tips are things you think you can't stick to, sitting on either the floor (ideally) or in a chair can reduce your chances of losing your balance and falling into a bookshelf or smashing your hand into a nearby lamp. It's not a cure-all, but sitting takes a lot of the aforementioned risk off the virtual table. 5. Hold on tight The controllers for the HTC Vive and the Oculus Touch feature wrist loops that can keep the controllers attached to your body in situations where you get a little too enthusiastic with that virtual sword, spear or rock that you're throwing in VR. Yes, people are sharing stories of accidentally nailing a loved one in the head with a loose controller. Bullet Train on #OculusTouch is awesome. I just threw my controller at the wall tho thinking it was a grenade. Not gonna last long :) — dave dow (@tartanmonkey23) December 6, 2016 It might sound like a small thing, but many of these VR worlds are so convincingly rendered that it's easy to forget the laws of physics governing your controllers in the real world. One way to put this issue out of mind and enjoy the immersion is to just take half a second to loop that tether around your wrist and dive into VR. There will probably be more, currently unforeseen safety issues with VR as we push it to its limits, but as we take our first tentative steps into these imaginary worlds, following these tips can save you money and, in some cases, a trip to the hospital. BONUS: We built a VR-ready computer for less than $800 (and you can too)

The new year may be upon us, but many of you are probably still playing with your holiday gifts, one of the most popular of which appears to be VR headsets.

But if you take a look around social media, you'll notice a surprisingly common story popping up: People are getting so into virtual reality, they're destroying their real-world homes.

SEE ALSO: Why wireless headsets for Oculus and Vive could be a step backward for VR

Whether it's playing shooter titles like Superhot or athletic titles like The Climb, stories of people smashing their hands into their expensive televisions or computer monitors are becoming the new normal.

Last night my sister bought my dad Drunken Bar Fight for his VR and you bet he almost punched a hole in the wall. :) — 🦊 Nayeli 🍄 (@lisiicaaa) December 25, 2016

I was doing VR and accidentally PUNCHED my brother. Feelings of guilt are at an all time high. — Collin Farias (@CollinFarias) December 25, 2016

My step dad punched a wall while playing Super Hot VR on Oculus Touch.. — Dyleone (@Dyleone_24) December 24, 2016

But don't let these tales of woe put you off VR, there's a safe way to work out, climb, shoot and lose yourself without wrecking your home. Before you jack into VR, try the following tips ...

1. Know your limits

Both the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift have virtual boundary systems that allow you to designate a safe space in your living room to help you avoid hurting yourself or your furniture. But one of the most common mistakes I've seen is that people set the boundaries too close to the very edge of the space they have available. That's a mistake.

#oculusrift 😍 A video posted by Jeremiah Robison (@jerrobison) on Dec 29, 2016 at 11:37am PST

Instead, when you're setting your virtual boundaries, try to give yourself at least an extra one to two feet beyond the margin, away from things you might smash. Using that method, even when you forget yourself and get a little too close to your virtual boundaries, you're still likely to avoid real damage.

2. Assault with a deadly VR

It might sound wild, but I've heard a fair number of stories in the last couple of weeks of family members accidentally smacking one another while in VR. Obviously, it can be even worse if you have a pet or toddler who can't understand that you're flying on eagle wings in virtual space and might suddenly swing your arms or feet out unexpectedly.

Cadence playing Fruit Ninja with Oculus Touch #oculustouch #oculusrift A photo posted by Rick Underwood (@trickydm61) on Dec 29, 2016 at 3:45am PST

If you have roommates, pets or children, and you can't alert them that you're going into a VR experience, then try to close the space via a shut door or even a prominent note, "Be careful, I can't hear or see you while I'm in VR!"

3. Don't drunk VR

Don't drink and VR. Full stop. Period. Do not pass GO.

It might sound fun to drink alcohol with friends or alone and then dive into a trippy experience, but because VR requires balance and spatial awareness, jacking into virtual reality in an inebriated state is basically inviting a completely avoidable accident that could really hurt in the real world.

You've been warned.

4. Sitting is safety

Most of the accidents I've discovered happen when someone is standing while in VR. Getting people standing and active while interacting with a computer may have great long-term health impacts, but it could be dangerous if safety isn't prioritized.

Another day hard at work! #oculus #oculusrift #ouculustouch #workhardplayhard A video posted by Clement Ng (@lookinco) on Dec 30, 2016 at 3:18pm PST

So if the previous safety tips are things you think you can't stick to, sitting on either the floor (ideally) or in a chair can reduce your chances of losing your balance and falling into a bookshelf or smashing your hand into a nearby lamp. It's not a cure-all, but sitting takes a lot of the aforementioned risk off the virtual table.

5. Hold on tight

The controllers for the HTC Vive and the Oculus Touch feature wrist loops that can keep the controllers attached to your body in situations where you get a little too enthusiastic with that virtual sword, spear or rock that you're throwing in VR. Yes, people are sharing stories of accidentally nailing a loved one in the head with a loose controller.

Bullet Train on #OculusTouch is awesome. I just threw my controller at the wall tho thinking it was a grenade. Not gonna last long :) — dave dow (@tartanmonkey23) December 6, 2016

It might sound like a small thing, but many of these VR worlds are so convincingly rendered that it's easy to forget the laws of physics governing your controllers in the real world. One way to put this issue out of mind and enjoy the immersion is to just take half a second to loop that tether around your wrist and then dive into VR.

There will probably be more, currently unforeseen safety issues with VR as we push it to its limits, but as we take our first tentative steps into these imaginary worlds, following these tips can save you money and, in some cases, a trip to the hospital.