Trump says Happy New Year in the most Trump way
Trump says Happy New Year in the most Trump way
President-elect Donald Trump tweeted his New Year's wishes on Saturday morning, and they do not disappoint. Choosing to steer clear of a neutral, hopeful message for the future, Trump instead sent a tauntingly boastful signal to his enemies. Presumably the tweet was also directed at his vanquished rival for the presidency, Hillary Clinton, who won the popular vote by nearly 3 million but lost in the Electoral College. SEE ALSO: What we do and don't know about Russia's interference in the  presidential election One person that may not be on Trump's enemies list, but which is on such a roster among most Congressional Republicans as well as President Obama, is Russian President Vladimir Putin. Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don't know what to do. Love! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 31, 2016 On Friday, Trump praised Putin as a "smart" man shortly after the U.S. sanctioned Russia for hacking the Democratic Party. He has vowed to improve relations with that country. Trump is scheduled to take the oath of office on Jan. 20.

President-elect Donald Trump tweeted his New Year's wishes on Saturday morning, and they do not disappoint. Choosing to steer clear of a neutral, hopeful message for the future, Trump instead sent a tauntingly boastful signal to his enemies.

Presumably the tweet was also directed at his vanquished rival for the presidency, Hillary Clinton, who won the popular vote by nearly 3 million but lost in the Electoral College.

One person that may not be on Trump's enemies list, but which is on such a roster among most Congressional Republicans as well as President Obama, is Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don't know what to do. Love! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 31, 2016

On Friday, Trump praised Putin as a "smart" man shortly after the U.S. sanctioned Russia for hacking the Democratic Party. He has vowed to improve relations with that country.

Trump is scheduled to take the oath of office on Jan. 20.