Trump's brilliant cybersecurity solution is to send messages by courier
Trump's brilliant cybersecurity solution is to send messages by courier
President-elect Donald Trump has a brilliant solution to our country's cybersecurity problems. No, it's not to condemn Russia for hacking the Democratic National Committee . It's turning back the clock to a simpler time, before these newfangled computers messed everything up. SEE ALSO: An A-list celeb has finally offered to perform at Trump’s inauguration Speaking to reporters on Saturday while in Florida to celebrate New Year's Eve, the president-elect, per the press pool report, said: "It's very important, if you have something really important, write it out and have it delivered by courier, the old fashioned way because I'll tell you what, no computer is safe. I don't care what they say, no computer is safe. I have a boy who's ten years old, he can do anything with a computer. You want something to really go without detection, write it out and have it sent by courier." Trump, asked about cyber security, says important things should be WRITTEN and delivered by COURIER.  Also Barron Trump gets a shout-out (?) pic.twitter.com/jmnTABAj9U — Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) January 1, 2017 Make Carrier Pigeons Great Again pic.twitter.com/1VDQcmfz0k — Matt Viser (@mviser) January 1, 2017  Donald Trump's non-computer courier message system in action. pic.twitter.com/9uJ4h3DHGL — Dusty (@DustinGiebel) January 1, 2017 Perhaps next time there is a national emergency, Trump can summon his advisers via raven? As long as no Lannisters shoot them down, they should be hack-proof. BONUS: Trump praises tech leaders

President-elect Donald Trump has a brilliant solution to our country's cybersecurity problems.

No, it's not to condemn Russia for hacking the Democratic National Committee. It's turning back the clock to a simpler time, before these newfangled computers messed everything up.

Speaking to reporters on Saturday while in Florida to celebrate New Year's Eve, the president-elect, per the press pool report, said:

"It's very important, if you have something really important, write it out and have it delivered by courier, the old fashioned way because I'll tell you what, no computer is safe. I don't care what they say, no computer is safe. I have a boy who's ten years old, he can do anything with a computer. You want something to really go without detection, write it out and have it sent by courier."

Trump, asked about cyber security, says important things should be WRITTEN and delivered by COURIER. Also Barron Trump gets a shout-out (?) pic.twitter.com/jmnTABAj9U — Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) January 1, 2017

Make Carrier Pigeons Great Again pic.twitter.com/1VDQcmfz0k — Matt Viser (@mviser) January 1, 2017

Donald Trump's non-computer courier message system in action. pic.twitter.com/9uJ4h3DHGL — Dusty (@DustinGiebel) January 1, 2017

Perhaps next time there is a national emergency, Trump can summon his advisers via raven? As long as no Lannisters shoot them down, they should be hack-proof.