A Year When Death Loomed in the Laughter
A Year When Death Loomed in the Laughter
In 2016, death killed. At a time when cultural journalism covers the deaths of beloved artists more rigorously than ever, the list of titanic figures who died this year feels tragically long. On the stand-up scene, mortality loomed large, and not just because comics like Garry Shandling and Kevin Meaney died. In his funniest work in years, Louis C.K. found laughs in suicide, a subject Chris Gethard explored movingly in a breakthrough solo show. A recently released special by George Carlin, “I Kinda Like It When a Lotta People Die,” was a welcome reminder of his apocalyptic tendencies. But what particularly lingers in the memory is the cathartic comedy that processed the loss of a father, a mother and a wife. The comedy boom has not yet bust, but it is in flux. Comedians are increasingly migrating toward streaming platforms and big rooms. After decades with HBO, Chris Rock signed a $40 million deal with Netflix. Kevin Hart told jokes to 50,000 people in his latest special , and Nick Kroll and John Mulaney, stars of “ Oh, Hello ,” followed Trey Parker and Matt Stone, translating a Comedy Central sensibility to Broadway. It was also a great year for intimate experiments, particularly ones with an improvisational streak. After a strong body of work this year from Reggie Watts and Rory Scovel, Nina Conti brought her irreverent ventriloquism show to New York, where she turned audience members into dummies and ad-libbed most of the jokes. Just as digital comedy grew, so did its critics, including Bo Burnham, whose third special offered a biting and resonant commentary on fame in the social media era. Even before comics became stars broadcasting from their bedrooms, they confronted demons with a directness that few other art forms could match. Richard Pryor cemented his reputation as the greatest stand-up of his generation by spinning his story of setting himself on fire into a hilarious yarn. It was a refined and tightly controlled performance. By contrast, Tig Notaro revealing she had cancer in 2012 proved to be one of the most emotional sets this decade. Advertisement Patton Oswalt ’s heartbreaking set at the Beacon Theater in the fall navigated between these two styles, while doing material about his response to the sudden death of his wife in April. Mr. Oswalt, whose comedy special won an Emmy this year, told bracing stories that Ping-Ponged between silly jokes and deeply felt moments grappling with his tumultuous state of mind. Advertisement He has always been a wry observer of the intensity of feelings, although in the past, that skill was put to use skewering (and celebrating) his own cultural obsessions. Here he redirected his analytic mind to his paralyzing grief, mocking the language of recovery, preferring “numb slog” to “healing journey.” At his most moving, Mr. Oswalt told self-deprecating stories that doubled as tributes to his wife, the writer Michelle McNamara. In one of their running arguments, he recalled, she would quarrel with his notion that “everything happens for a reason.” After mapping out this debate, he paused, adding, “She won the argument in the worst way.” Two years earlier on Twitter, Mr. Oswalt singled out jokes from the comic and “Conan” writer Laurie Kilmartin, who was tweeting about her father’s dying of lung cancer. These sharply written one-liners captured the pain and frustration of caring for a dying loved one (“Hospice is a medical term that means “Here, you do it”), and they evolved into a special, “45 Jokes About My Dead Dad,” having its premiere on Seeso on Thursday. It’s a slightly deceptive title, since the jokes cover a broad swath of territory, including the impossibility of predicting someone’s last breath and more than a few sharp jabs at her mother, but the main focus is on walking the audience through the treatment, recovery, raised hopes and hard realism of helping a loved one die with dignity. In an interview at the beginning of the special, she describes her impulse as making “something precise out of something wild and huge and terrifying,” but she pulls off something even more ambitious: showing that comedy can tell a story of complexity and nuance and emotional power. In an election year in which television hosts were forever eviscerating, the boldest late-night sketch put Kate McKinnon, dressed as Hillary Clinton, at a piano singing a tribute to Leonard Cohen. But Ms. Kilmartin touched on the toughest moments of mourning without a note of the maudlin. “Ever cry so hard and so thoroughly,” she asks, with deliberate pace, before shifting into the absurd, “that when you finish you like jazz?” Doug Stanhope is a more argumentative and polemical comic, and in the first chapter of his book “Digging Up Mother,” he described the death of his mother in the meticulous detail of someone fascinated by all things uncomfortable and taboo. While he talked about her in a previous stand-up special, this lucid account, deadpan but too impertinent to be called clinical, is even more harrowing and funny. He relates her final moments soberly, lets her have the amusing lines, but once she dies, he destroys any trace of solemnity. “Mother was in a better place now,” he wrote. “And by that, I mean she wasn’t all dead and drooling in a hospital bed in my living room while I was trying to watch football.” As television comedy has increasingly merged with drama — a development routinely skewered by “Difficult People,” whose second season had some of the best jokes on the small screen this year — it’s perhaps no surprise that stand-ups have made light of the darkest events. But the trend toward comedy that confronts personal experiences with death is also a result of a culture that encourages confession and that has cut the distance between artist and audience. While the jokes and comedian personas are as shaped as the dialogue and characters in movies, they feel more real. We trust stand-up comics in a way that we don’t for almost any other artist, and it’s part of the reason they have such stature in our culture now. That’s why when they joke about death, it can come across like a friend’s sharing intimate secrets. And that allows them leeway to express themselves without euphemism. What stand-ups proved this year is that just because humor can provide comfort doesn’t make it comic relief. Jokes can help an audience hear difficult things more clearly. A version of this article appears in print on December 29, 2016, on Page C1 of the with the headline: Playing Death for Laughs.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Patton Oswalt’s heartbreaking set at the Beacon Theater in the fall navigated between these two styles, while doing material about his response to the sudden death of his wife in April. Mr. Oswalt, whose comedy special won an Emmy this year, told bracing stories that Ping-Ponged between silly jokes and deeply felt moments grappling with his tumultuous state of mind.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has always been a wry observer of the intensity of feelings, although in the past, that skill was put to use skewering (and celebrating) his own cultural obsessions. Here he redirected his analytic mind to his paralyzing grief, mocking the language of recovery, preferring “numb slog” to “healing journey.” At his most moving, Mr. Oswalt told self-deprecating stories that doubled as tributes to his wife, the writer Michelle McNamara. In one of their running arguments, he recalled, she would quarrel with his notion that “everything happens for a reason.” After mapping out this debate, he paused, adding, “She won the argument in the worst way.”

Photo

Two years earlier on Twitter, Mr. Oswalt singled out jokes from the comic and “Conan” writer Laurie Kilmartin, who was tweeting about her father’s dying of lung cancer. These sharply written one-liners captured the pain and frustration of caring for a dying loved one (“Hospice is a medical term that means “Here, you do it”), and they evolved into a special, “45 Jokes About My Dead Dad,” having its premiere on Seeso on Thursday. It’s a slightly deceptive title, since the jokes cover a broad swath of territory, including the impossibility of predicting someone’s last breath and more than a few sharp jabs at her mother, but the main focus is on walking the audience through the treatment, recovery, raised hopes and hard realism of helping a loved one die with dignity.

In an interview at the beginning of the special, she describes her impulse as making “something precise out of something wild and huge and terrifying,” but she pulls off something even more ambitious: showing that comedy can tell a story of complexity and nuance and emotional power. In an election year in which television hosts were forever eviscerating, the boldest late-night sketch put Kate McKinnon, dressed as Hillary Clinton, at a piano singing a tribute to Leonard Cohen.

But Ms. Kilmartin touched on the toughest moments of mourning without a note of the maudlin. “Ever cry so hard and so thoroughly,” she asks, with deliberate pace, before shifting into the absurd, “that when you finish you like jazz?”

Photo

Doug Stanhope is a more argumentative and polemical comic, and in the first chapter of his book “Digging Up Mother,” he described the death of his mother in the meticulous detail of someone fascinated by all things uncomfortable and taboo. While he talked about her in a previous stand-up special, this lucid account, deadpan but too impertinent to be called clinical, is even more harrowing and funny. He relates her final moments soberly, lets her have the amusing lines, but once she dies, he destroys any trace of solemnity. “Mother was in a better place now,” he wrote. “And by that, I mean she wasn’t all dead and drooling in a hospital bed in my living room while I was trying to watch football.”

As television comedy has increasingly merged with drama — a development routinely skewered by “Difficult People,” whose second season had some of the best jokes on the small screen this year — it’s perhaps no surprise that stand-ups have made light of the darkest events. But the trend toward comedy that confronts personal experiences with death is also a result of a culture that encourages confession and that has cut the distance between artist and audience.

While the jokes and comedian personas are as shaped as the dialogue and characters in movies, they feel more real. We trust stand-up comics in a way that we don’t for almost any other artist, and it’s part of the reason they have such stature in our culture now. That’s why when they joke about death, it can come across like a friend’s sharing intimate secrets. And that allows them leeway to express themselves without euphemism.

What stand-ups proved this year is that just because humor can provide comfort doesn’t make it comic relief. Jokes can help an audience hear difficult things more clearly.