Was 2016 The Best Year To Be A Woman In Business?
Was 2016 The Best Year To Be A Woman In Business?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Samantha Harrington       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As a young woman, I’ve been struggling to understand what 2016 has meant for women in America. In the public sector, it feels like it was a bad year for women — influenced mostly by the events of November 9. As a entrepreneur, I was thrilled to discover that it’s been a banner year for women in business. For starters. There’s been a large increase in women-started businesses since the 2007 financial crisis. From 2007 to 2016, the number of women-owned businesses increased by 3.5 million firms. And 78% of those new businesses are owned by women of color. This data comes from Womenable’s report commissioned by the State of Women Owned Business 2016 commissioned by American Express. There are more women-owned businesses in the U.S. than ever before. And that trend seems likely to continue. Data from Womenable. Not only are women building more businesses but they're also hiring more people. In fact while employment gains fell in most firms after the recession, women-owned businesses have made major gains. From 2007-2016, employment in businesses owned by women increased 18% while across all businesses it declined by 1%. The strongest growth in employment came from small businesses with just 50-99 employees. That means women in small business are making major moves. Data from Womenable.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As a young woman, I’ve been struggling to understand what 2016 has meant for women in America. In the public sector, it feels like it was a bad year for women — influenced mostly by the events of November 9.

As a entrepreneur, I was thrilled to discover that it’s been a banner year for women in business.

For starters. There’s been a large increase in women-started businesses since the 2007 financial crisis. From 2007 to 2016, the number of women-owned businesses increased by 3.5 million firms. And 78% of those new businesses are owned by women of color. This data comes from Womenable’s report commissioned by the State of Women Owned Business 2016 commissioned by American Express.

There are more women-owned businesses in the U.S. than ever before. And that trend seems likely to continue.

Not only are women building more businesses but they're also hiring more people. In fact while employment gains fell in most firms after the recession, women-owned businesses have made major gains.

From 2007-2016, employment in businesses owned by women increased 18% while across all businesses it declined by 1%. The strongest growth in employment came from small businesses with just 50-99 employees. That means women in small business are making major moves.