Wilmer Valderrama’s Worst New Year’s Eve Wasn’t So Bad After All
Wilmer Valderrama’s Worst New Year’s Eve Wasn’t So Bad After All
While you might think celebs always have fabulous New Year’s Eve celebrations to attend, think again. During a recent interview with Wilmer Valderrama , Yahoo Celebrity talked to the star about a lot of things, including the worst New Year’s Eve he’s ever had. In 2002, Valderrama decided to take the risk of flying on New Year’s Eve. However, thanks to the weather, his flight was canceled, and he found himself snowed in at the airport. Wilmer told us he had only started drinking the year before when he turned 21 (cough, cough), so he was ready to party! Fortunately, the couple of hundred other people stranded with him were also in a partying mood and decided to make the best of things. As he puts it, “Something good came out of a not-so-fun situation.” Though Valderrama wasn’t able to be with his family for the holiday, this definitely ended up being a New Year’s Eve he will never forget. Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram

While you might think celebs always have fabulous New Year’s Eve celebrations to attend, think again. During a recent interview with Wilmer Valderrama, Yahoo Celebrity talked to the NCIS star about a lot of things, including the worst New Year’s Eve he’s ever had.

In 2002, Valderrama decided to take the risk of flying on New Year’s Eve. However, thanks to the weather, his flight was canceled, and he found himself snowed in at the airport.

Wilmer told us he had only started drinking the year before when he turned 21 (cough, cough), so he was ready to party! Fortunately, the couple of hundred other people stranded with him were also in a partying mood and decided to make the best of things. As he puts it, “Something good came out of a not-so-fun situation.”

Though Valderrama wasn’t able to be with his family for the holiday, this definitely ended up being a New Year’s Eve he will never forget.

Have you checked out six male celebrities who struggle with body image issues?



Tell us what you think! Share your comments with us on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Julissa Bermudez, on Twitter.