With Streaming, Musicians and Fans Find Room to Experiment and Explore
With Streaming, Musicians and Fans Find Room to Experiment and Explore
Something unexpected happened near the top of the album charts this year: Pop stars were acting like artists. That is to say, they weren’t desperately chasing the broadest possible audience with the most surefire formulas; they weren’t calculating what would fit radio formats best. Instead, some of them grew eccentric and adventurous, impulsive and experimental, instinctive and personal — at times, bordering on avant-garde. And they found that listeners were willing to pay attention. In 2016, Billboard’s Top 200 album chart had entries in the Top 10 by Beyoncé, Kanye West, Solange, Bon Iver, Frank Ocean and Radiohead: arty, idiosyncratic, often dark statements that counted on listeners to engage with them fully. Rihanna’s “Anti,” which did have hit singles (including “Work” ) to drive sales, turned out to be a brittle, even confrontational album about compulsive lust and multilevel betrayal. There were also final, uncompromising albums in the Top 10 from elders like David Bowie, Leonard Cohen and A Tribe Called Quest. On all of these major releases, the music often eluded genre, tried odd structures and toyed with austerity or overload; there was a sense, illusory or not, of private statements being unveiled. They were closer in spirit to musicians working on the edges of pop, like Anohni or Dev Hynes of Blood Orange, than to its commercial center. This isn’t to say that mass-market, radio-friendly pop was scarce or in any way eclipsed; just ask the Chainsmokers . But making pop bangers, or trying to, was no longer the only game in town. Frank Ocean’s “Blonde,” for instance, comes across as more of a homemade reverie than a pop album. Its production, despite a few plush moments, is most often minimal, using just an instrument or two. It has songs that barely bother with a beat; songs without choruses; songs that process his voice into unnatural, barely intelligible tones and songs that sound like sketches or barely finished demos. Mr. West’s “The Life of Pablo” arrived online as a work in progress that he was still tinkering with; the fact that it was streaming, in files that he could replace at whim, allowed him to keep tweaking it long after its release date. Those two albums, like those by Beyoncé and Solange, appeared suddenly online as full-fledged cultural events. Streaming encouraged millions of fans to check them out immediately, on their own terms. Chalk up these artistic choices, in part, to performers’ creative ambitions and the stubbornness to get them realized, as well as to the increasing clout of individual stars versus a scrambling music business. The seriousness of an election year may well have been another factor. Yet looming behind the change is also a shift in the medium and delivery system — to streaming — and in the metrics that streaming enables. Advertisement Streaming music services, with a monthly subscription fee to hear a vast catalog, have been around since Rhapsody (now Napster) appeared in 2001. But in 2016, streaming came into its own as the prime outlet for music. According to Nielsen research, for the first 50 weeks of 2016 audio on demand — streaming — had become a larger part of the music business (38 percent) than digital sales (36 percent); as sales of downloads fell, streaming had risen by 77 percent over 2015. By the end of 2015, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry reported, 68 million people worldwide were paying for streaming subscriptions; that number could reach 100 million in the first part of 2017 . Two services dominate streaming: Spotify claims 40 million paid subscribers out of its 100 million users worldwide; Apple claimed 20 million paying subscribers this month. Because streaming services automatically count clicks, they make it possible to tabulate more precisely what people are listening to. In years past, a sale of a disc or a download revealed only that the transaction had been made. But a streaming service knows exactly how many plays every song is getting; it measures usage beyond the one-time purchase. And those streaming statistics, along with sales and radio plays, are now included in compiling the pop charts (though it takes 1,500 streams to equal one album sale purchase ). The combination of sales, radio and streaming is arguably a far more accurate assessment of which music is finding an audience at any given moment. And because the music business, like all creative industries, runs on ego as well as revenue, a higher chart position is positive feedback for a star who’s thinking about taking chances. Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Even better, streaming changes the incentives for listeners. Paying for individual songs as downloads tore apart the album; getting a song legally for 99 cents was a commitment, one that limited the audience for the album cuts beyond radio-approved, video-promoted hits. Homemade or corporate-suggested playlists prize a song by itself, not as part of some broader work; it didn’t help, either, that so many pop albums have always been singles plus filler. Online music stores have also encouraged a winner-takes-all approach not that different from Top 20 radio: Grab the crowd-pleasing song at the top of the listings and ignore the rest. When “most popular” can be tabulated so easily, it’s more tempting than ever to accept that taste can be crowdsourced, especially since so many of us want to know what everyone else is listening to. Advertisement John Seabrook’s book “The Song Machine: Inside the Hit Factory” delved into the 21st-century pop that resulted from concentrating on single tracks: We got songs that were fabricated as masterpieces of instant gratification, full of technological sizzle and concocted by a surprisingly small clique of professionals for a highly competitive A-list of pop stars, who added some small personal garnish to the committee efforts. The same people write for (and with) Taylor Swift, the Weeknd and Adele; they knew the secrets of radio play, which is still seen as the best guarantee of mass success despite the occasional online breakout. Streaming, instead, encourages curiosity. With streaming rather than downloads, access replaces ownership and the commitment is of time, not money. That’s still significant, but it doesn’t feel so irrevocable. Where downloads and playlists favored the lone song, streaming gives the artist and the album a fighting chance again. Anyone interested in a particular artist, from die-hard fans to novelty seekers, can listen to a whole album repeatedly — not just song samples, not just YouTube choices — and let subtler material sink in. Musicians don’t need to think so exclusively about what sounds, beats and structures the radio gatekeepers will allow; they can get poetic, political, sonically weird or all of the above. While big and glossy still works, it’s just possible that odd and heartfelt will, too. The stars themselves were getting a little bored with the hit factories anyway. In recent years, songwriting camps — the high-pressure, high-yield gatherings, convened by stars, that toss together songwriting pros in various permutations — have been inviting outliers like Grimes, Justin Vernon of Bon Iver, Romy Madley Croft of the xx and Tom Krell of How to Dress Well , deliberately introducing unconventional thinking. Star projects are often still committee efforts, but the committees and the stars are more daring. And a fan who lets an album stream from start to finish may well find something that feels quirky and intimate credited to half a dozen collaborators. This is not yet, alas, the realization of “the long tail,” that utopian dream of online culture in which every artist, best-selling or esoteric, would reach every possible fan. Most of the experimenters who reached the Top 10 are already big names who established themselves with radio hits (or who were featured on hitmakers’ albums, like the sometime Mr. West collaborator Bon Iver). They don’t have to strive for recognition; they have fans eagerly awaiting whatever they do next, even if it’s Mr. Ocean’s album-length “Endless” video that shows him constructing a spiral staircase in a white room. The career path is still precarious for unknowns who want to destabilize pop. Nobody’s typing their names into streaming-service search boxes yet. But maybe, optimistically, they have a little more hope in a streaming universe. Streaming services also pride themselves on their recommendation engines, and if the stars are allowing themselves to stray beyond pop’s comfort zones, they could point their listeners there, too, toward sources and fringes and subtleties. Musicians have already begun to understand that they can collect a sizable number of streaming listeners one by one, in a series of individual discoveries, rather than always pitching their music to a mass audience. They can make pop that’s not for everybody, and that doesn’t try to be. A version of this article appears in print on December 25, 2016, on Page AR1 of the with the headline: A Year of Poetry and Power, Bit by Bit.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    POPCAST    CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK

Streaming music services, with a monthly subscription fee to hear a vast catalog, have been around since Rhapsody (now Napster) appeared in 2001. But in 2016, streaming came into its own as the prime outlet for music. According to Nielsen research, for the first 50 weeks of 2016 audio on demand — streaming — had become a larger part of the music business (38 percent) than digital sales (36 percent); as sales of downloads fell, streaming had risen by 77 percent over 2015.

Photo

By the end of 2015, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry reported, 68 million people worldwide were paying for streaming subscriptions; that number could reach 100 million in the first part of 2017. Two services dominate streaming: Spotify claims 40 million paid subscribers out of its 100 million users worldwide; Apple claimed 20 million paying subscribers this month.

Because streaming services automatically count clicks, they make it possible to tabulate more precisely what people are listening to. In years past, a sale of a disc or a download revealed only that the transaction had been made. But a streaming service knows exactly how many plays every song is getting; it measures usage beyond the one-time purchase. And those streaming statistics, along with sales and radio plays, are now included in compiling the pop charts (though it takes 1,500 streams to equal one album sale purchase). The combination of sales, radio and streaming is arguably a far more accurate assessment of which music is finding an audience at any given moment. And because the music business, like all creative industries, runs on ego as well as revenue, a higher chart position is positive feedback for a star who’s thinking about taking chances.

Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Even better, streaming changes the incentives for listeners. Paying for individual songs as downloads tore apart the album; getting a song legally for 99 cents was a commitment, one that limited the audience for the album cuts beyond radio-approved, video-promoted hits. Homemade or corporate-suggested playlists prize a song by itself, not as part of some broader work; it didn’t help, either, that so many pop albums have always been singles plus filler. Online music stores have also encouraged a winner-takes-all approach not that different from Top 20 radio: Grab the crowd-pleasing song at the top of the listings and ignore the rest. When “most popular” can be tabulated so easily, it’s more tempting than ever to accept that taste can be crowdsourced, especially since so many of us want to know what everyone else is listening to.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

John Seabrook’s book “The Song Machine: Inside the Hit Factory” delved into the 21st-century pop that resulted from concentrating on single tracks: We got songs that were fabricated as masterpieces of instant gratification, full of technological sizzle and concocted by a surprisingly small clique of professionals for a highly competitive A-list of pop stars, who added some small personal garnish to the committee efforts. The same people write for (and with) Taylor Swift, the Weeknd and Adele; they knew the secrets of radio play, which is still seen as the best guarantee of mass success despite the occasional online breakout.

Photo

Streaming, instead, encourages curiosity. With streaming rather than downloads, access replaces ownership and the commitment is of time, not money. That’s still significant, but it doesn’t feel so irrevocable. Where downloads and playlists favored the lone song, streaming gives the artist and the album a fighting chance again. Anyone interested in a particular artist, from die-hard fans to novelty seekers, can listen to a whole album repeatedly — not just song samples, not just YouTube choices — and let subtler material sink in. Musicians don’t need to think so exclusively about what sounds, beats and structures the radio gatekeepers will allow; they can get poetic, political, sonically weird or all of the above. While big and glossy still works, it’s just possible that odd and heartfelt will, too.

The stars themselves were getting a little bored with the hit factories anyway. In recent years, songwriting camps — the high-pressure, high-yield gatherings, convened by stars, that toss together songwriting pros in various permutations — have been inviting outliers like Grimes, Justin Vernon of Bon Iver, Romy Madley Croft of the xx and Tom Krell of How to Dress Well, deliberately introducing unconventional thinking. Star projects are often still committee efforts, but the committees and the stars are more daring. And a fan who lets an album stream from start to finish may well find something that feels quirky and intimate credited to half a dozen collaborators.

This is not yet, alas, the realization of “the long tail,” that utopian dream of online culture in which every artist, best-selling or esoteric, would reach every possible fan. Most of the experimenters who reached the Top 10 are already big names who established themselves with radio hits (or who were featured on hitmakers’ albums, like the sometime Mr. West collaborator Bon Iver). They don’t have to strive for recognition; they have fans eagerly awaiting whatever they do next, even if it’s Mr. Ocean’s album-length “Endless” video that shows him constructing a spiral staircase in a white room.

The career path is still precarious for unknowns who want to destabilize pop. Nobody’s typing their names into streaming-service search boxes yet. But maybe, optimistically, they have a little more hope in a streaming universe. Streaming services also pride themselves on their recommendation engines, and if the stars are allowing themselves to stray beyond pop’s comfort zones, they could point their listeners there, too, toward sources and fringes and subtleties. Musicians have already begun to understand that they can collect a sizable number of streaming listeners one by one, in a series of individual discoveries, rather than always pitching their music to a mass audience. They can make pop that’s not for everybody, and that doesn’t try to be.