Another Dangal! Despite Several Medals, Agra Villagers Oppose Wrestling Dreams Of 3 Sisters
Another Dangal! Despite Several Medals, Agra Villagers Oppose Wrestling Dreams Of 3 Sisters
Another Dangal! Despite Several Medals, Agra Villagers Oppose Wrestling Dreams Of 3 Sisters By now the story of the Phogat sisters wrestling the gender barrier in Haryana has become something of a media sensation. Over here, in Agra, three Solanki sisters are breaking down the doors of dangals. Solanki sisters, Seema, Neelam and Poonam, continue their struggle to get recognition even after winning several medals including gold and silver in various championships. Like Phogats, they are continuing the family tradition despite stiff opposition from local villagers. The girls also run shops of daily needs and cosmetics after taking time out of practice. Speaking to TOI, Neelam Solanki (19), who won gold medal in recently held wrestling tournament at university level in Hathras district said, "We are the third generation and all we seven sisters have been attached to wrestling since childhood. But after marriage four have left the sport. The remaining three of us have a dream to represent India." Neelam, who is brightest among the three and set to wrestle in upcoming national level tournament in Sirsa of Haryana said, "We three sisters start our day at 3am and dedicate majority of our time practicing wrestling. We travel 15 km daily from our remote village Sahara in Malpura to reach Agra cantt railway ground to horn our skills in wrestling." Seema the eldest among the three said, "Our father (Vishamber Singh Solanki) have always treated us like his son. Even after objection from local villagers, who were against the thought about girls being part of dangal, our father supported us. Every day we invest his time, money and strength to make us stronger as wrestling player." While Poonam (18), the youngest among the sisters who is pursing BSc said, "Our parents sold one bigha land to prepare us wrestlers and be champion, but seeing our financial constraint we have now opened a boutique and sell cosmetics items for our live hood." When asked, have they ever ducked any unruly boy for misbehavior with them, the three cheerful sisters said, "Many times."

By now the story of the Phogat sisters wrestling the gender barrier in Haryana has become something of a media sensation. Over here, in Agra, three Solanki sisters are breaking down the doors of dangals.

TOI

Solanki sisters, Seema, Neelam and Poonam, continue their struggle to get recognition even after winning several medals including gold and silver in various championships. Like Phogats, they are continuing the family tradition despite stiff opposition from local villagers. The girls also run shops of daily needs and cosmetics after taking time out of practice.

Speaking to TOI, Neelam Solanki (19), who won gold medal in recently held wrestling tournament at university level in Hathras district said, "We are the third generation and all we seven sisters have been attached to wrestling since childhood. But after marriage four have left the sport. The remaining three of us have a dream to represent India."

uttarpradesh.org

Neelam, who is brightest among the three and set to wrestle in upcoming national level tournament in Sirsa of Haryana said, "We three sisters start our day at 3am and dedicate majority of our time practicing wrestling. We travel 15 km daily from our remote village Sahara in Malpura to reach Agra cantt railway ground to horn our skills in wrestling."

Seema the eldest among the three said, "Our father (Vishamber Singh Solanki) have always treated us like his son. Even after objection from local villagers, who were against the thought about girls being part of dangal, our father supported us. Every day we invest his time, money and strength to make us stronger as wrestling player."

abplive.in

While Poonam (18), the youngest among the sisters who is pursing BSc said, "Our parents sold one bigha land to prepare us wrestlers and be champion, but seeing our financial constraint we have now opened a boutique and sell cosmetics items for our live hood." When asked, have they ever ducked any unruly boy for misbehavior with them, the three cheerful sisters said, "Many times."

While Poonam (18), the youngest among the sisters who is pursing BSc said, "Our parents sold one bigha land to prepare us wrestlers and be champion, but seeing our financial constraint we have now opened a boutique and sell cosmetics items for our live hood." When asked, have they ever ducked any unruly boy for misbehavior with them, the three cheerful sisters said, "Many times."