Research reveals more people die on New Year's Day than at any other time in the year
Research reveals most people die of natural causes on New Year's Day


Despite the fact that most people spend January 1 fighting off hangovers and sleeping, research has revealed that today is actually the most dangerous day of the year.

A study conducted by the University of California collected data and found that deaths spike for the two weeks around Christmas and the New Year.

Overall the research found that the day you're most likely to die of natural causes is the first of the new year, January 1.

DOA: A study from the University of California has found that more people die from natural causes on January 1 than any other day

To determine this, the researchers examined death certificates issued over a period of 25 years in the US.

Many studies had already determined an increase in deaths related to self harm, accidents, and homicide around the holidays, but none relating to natural causes of death.

Natural causes are determined to be people dying of illness, old age and disease, but not from accidents or homicide.

The study authors therefore investigated and found a significant trend, with 5 per cent more people dying on January 1 from natural causes than on any other day.

Not a happy new year: The researchers studied the data of death certificates from the US over a period of 25 years

While this fact was easily established with data, the reason why this occurs is unknown.

'This pattern turns up in every natural cause of death, but not for external causes like auto accidents,' one of the authors, David Phillips, told the Washington Post.

'It's hard to understand why that would be.'

Mystery: One of the study's authors, David Phillips, said that they didn't know why the death spike occured

While the conclusion of the study recommended more research be done in the area, to date no more findings have been published.

'It's not only a mystery, but a mystery that people haven't even tried to engage with,' Mr Phillips said, confirming that he is not aware of any further research on the topic.