13 people who had a great 2016 (who you can actually be happy for)
13 people who had a great 2016 (who you can actually be happy for)
Unless you've been living under a rock, everyone knows that 2016 has been the hottest of absolute hot trash. That said? There've been a handful of people who actually have a pretty decent 2016—who are Donald Trump—who collectively, we can genuinely be happy for. In no particular order, they are: 1. Gucci Mane The Atlanta rapper and East Atlanta Santa got out of jail this year looking great—if not different enough to inspire a conspiracy theory that he was a clone . He got his life together, dropped some new songs, and celebrated an engagement to long-time girlfriend Keyisha Kaoir at an Atlanta Hawks game. As Guwop himself would put it: , indeed. She said yessssss!!!!!!!!!!! Lucky me🎅🏿🎅🏿 A photo posted by Gucci Mane (@laflare1017) on 2. The Chicago Cubs If this year's World Series wasn't a perfect moment of closure, it's hard to know what is. After enduing an almost numbing 108-year losing streak in major league baseball, the Cubs beat out the Cleveland Indians in Game 7 of the World Series, making it one of the most long-awaited wins of, dare we say, all time? The curse has been broken, and they did it during the final season of the oldest player on the team: 38 year-old catcher David Ross . We did it. #FlyTheW A photo posted by cubs (@cubs) on 3. Chance The Rapper In 2016, Chance The Rapper dropped one of the most accomplished albums of his career, let alone 2016: , which became the first streaming-only album to reach No. 8 on Billboard's charts, with more than streams its first week. Now, with its feel-good messaging about sentimentality, family, and empathy—is in contention for snagging multiple Grammy's including Best Rap Album, making it the only streaming-only album to receive a Grammy nomination in that category. HUA HUA HUA! #tbt A photo posted by Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) on [Also: Let's not forget the time when Beyoncé went out of her way to acknowledge Chance backstage at this year's VMAs, making Chance the recipient of one of the most adorable moments of 2016, too: 4. Leonardo DiCaprio We were all pulling for you, and you won. Congrats, buddy. That long-awaited Oscar is finally yours. Last night’s win at the #Oscars was an incredible honor – but it was also an important opportunity to bring even more attention to #climatechange. Last year was the hottest in recorded history. Climate change is real, it is the most dire crisis our species has ever known, and it is happening right now. We must empower leaders who don’t speak for corporate interests but who speak for us, our children’s children and those whose voices cannot be heard. Take action now: LCV.org/act A photo posted by Leonardo DiCaprio (@leonardodicaprio) on 5. Adele . Need us say more? 25 out November 20th A photo posted by @adele on 6. James Corden It's true: Sometimes,  host is the host you most want to hate, but he's made it a monumental task, after all the amazing carpool karaoke videos he's gifted us with. Among the names he's wrangled: Mariah Carey, Madonna, Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, FLOTUS & Missy Elliot, Adele, One Direction, Sia, Elton John, Stevie Wonder, Britney Spears, Justin Bieber, the one and only Bruno Mars (and more!): Corden also found a final jolt of relevance in 2016 when, in the wake of George Michael's recent passing, the very first Carpool Karaoke clip—featuring George Michael— resurfaced for all to love . 7. Lin Manuel-Miranda The hottest ticket in town, dreamed up by a Puerto Rican kid from Washington Heights with a vision: To create one of the most revolutionary musicals of all time. He did, winning a Tony and a Pulitzer in the process. The world was wide enough for 16 Tony Award nominations A photo posted by @lin.manuel_miranda on 8. Beyoncé  Queen Bey came back with a vengeance in 2016, slaying all the people of the land with her sixth studio album to say nothing of the collective frenzy she put everyone in when she dropped that 10-second HBO promo on Instagram: #LEMONADE 4.23 9PM ET | 6PM PT | HBO A video posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Can't forget her hit single , which she uploaded onto YouTube as an . Download "Formation" on TIDAL 👯👯👯 A photo posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on And, of course, her appearance at the 2016 Super Bowl with Coldplay and Bruno Mars: One more thing: This ponytail braid. Beyoncé, girl. We're not worthy! Image:  Buzzfeed 9. Queen Elizabeth II Long live the Queen! Queen Elizabeth celebrated her 90th birthday this year, making her the longest-reigning British monarch. 💯 A photo posted by Her Majesty (@queenelizabeth) on 10. Rihanna Rihanna workworkworkworkworked everyone to the dance floor this year with the hottest. song. of. the. summer. It's a song also in contention to win Record of the Year at the upcoming Grammy Awards ceremony. 11. Lebron James LeBron can do no wrong in the eyes of certified Clevelanders. The 32-year-old NBA superstar had a stellar 2016, one of those accomplishments being the guiding light behind the Cavaliers first NBA Championship—an incredibly unlikely, come-from-behind, historic win that they've always hoped and dreamed of having. All hail King James! They said u lost a step, wasn't explosive as once was, the best days was in the real view, questioned your drive, your leadership, your commitment, you don't have killer instinct, going back home is the worst mistake in your career, he got the coach fired, players traded, won't work between him and Kyrie, Him and Kev won't work, love your teammates to much, there's no way he can deliver a championship in his hometown, etc etc etc.... But guess what THATS NONE OF MY BUSINESS #StriveForGreatness #ThisOneIsForTheLand #PutSomeRespeckOnMyName Hahahaha!!! Yes sir A photo posted by LeBron James (@kingjames) on 12. Young M.A The female rapper with her single "OOOUUU" challenging the status quo with what it means to be a female rapper, changing the landscape of rap and pop right now, dramatically so: 🙏🏽 (📸 @apiecebyguy ) #YoungMA #RedLyfe A photo posted by Young M.A Official (@hennynhoes) on 13. DJ Khaled Just a the few of the titles you can classify DJ Khaled under. Add to that: One of the few people to have an incredible 2016. He dropped one of his hottest albums to date back in July titled, 🔑, which was also nominated for the 2017 Grammys in the Album of the Year category. @recordingacademy GRAMMY NOMINATED #DJKHALED #MAJOR🔑 RAP ALBUM OF THE YEAR ! @wethebestmusic FAN LUV WE DID IT !! A photo posted by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on He was chosen by Beyoncé to open up for her Formation World Tour. A video posted by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on DJ Khaled also became a proud new father this year, and utilized social media for everyone to see his newest arrival: All my love ones meet my JOY!! MY HAPPINESS!! MY SON!! ASAHD KHALED YOUNG ICON!!!!!!!! My son truly showed me what love is what joy is what happiness is !!! ASAHD YOU SHOWED ME WHAT LIFE IS !! I'm so grateful GOD HAS BLESSED ME WIT MY BIGGEST BLESSING!!! ASAHD I GOT US FOREVER !! I LOVE YOU!! ASAHD YOU MY EVERYTHING!! MY LIFE HAS CHANGED ! FOR THE BETTER BECAUSE OF YOU SON!! MY TEARS ARE HAPPINESS , JOY!!!! ASAHD YOU MADE ME EVEN STRONGER !! ASAHD I HAD SUCH A BIG BIG AMAZING BLESSING YEAR!! And came from YOU AND GOD !! I WILL WORK HARD FOR YOU ASAHD I WILL GIVE YOU NOTHING BUT JOY!! I WILL RAISE YOU WIT LOVE JOY!! I LOVE YOU SO MUCH! NO WORDS CAN EXPLAIN HOW MUCH I LOVE YOU !! TO MY QUEEN THANK YOU FOR BIRTHING MY BIGGEST BLESSING! My SON ASAHD TUCK KHALED!! I LOVE YOU! FAN LUV AND ALL MY FAM IM ABOUT LET GO HUNDRED PICS OF THE YOUNG ICON ASAHD KHALED !!!!! 🙏🏽🔑🙏🏽🦁🌞👑😀 I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !! A video posted by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on Never change, Khaled. Especially in 2017.

Unless you've been living under a rock, everyone knows that 2016 has been the hottest of absolute hot trash. That said? There've been a handful of people who actually did have a pretty decent 2016—who are not Donald Trump—who collectively, we can genuinely be happy for.

In no particular order, they are:

1. Gucci Mane

The Atlanta rapper and East Atlanta Santa got out of jail this year looking great—if not different enough to inspire a conspiracy theory that he was a clone. He got his life together, dropped some new songs, and celebrated an engagement to long-time girlfriend Keyisha Kaoir at an Atlanta Hawks game. As Guwop himself would put it: BURRRR, indeed.

She said yessssss!!!!!!!!!!! Lucky me🎅🏿🎅🏿 A photo posted by Gucci Mane (@laflare1017) on Nov 23, 2016 at 5:17am PST





2. The Chicago Cubs

If this year's World Series wasn't a perfect moment of closure, it's hard to know what is. After enduing an almost numbing 108-year losing streak in major league baseball, the Cubs beat out the Cleveland Indians in Game 7 of the World Series, making it one of the most long-awaited wins of, dare we say, all time? The curse has been broken, and they did it during the final season of the oldest player on the team: 38 year-old catcher David Ross.

We did it. #FlyTheW A photo posted by cubs (@cubs) on Nov 2, 2016 at 10:08pm PDT





3. Chance The Rapper

In 2016, Chance The Rapper dropped one of the most accomplished albums of his career, let alone 2016: Coloring Book, which became the first streaming-only album to reach No. 8 on Billboard's charts, with more than 57 million streams its first week. Now, Coloring Book—with its feel-good messaging about sentimentality, family, and empathy—is in contention for snagging multiple Grammy's including Best Rap Album, making it the only streaming-only album to receive a Grammy nomination in that category. HUA HUA HUA!

#tbt A photo posted by Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) on Dec 29, 2016 at 1:46pm PST

[Also: Let's not forget the time when Beyoncé went out of her way to acknowledge Chance backstage at this year's VMAs, making Chance the recipient of one of the most adorable moments of 2016, too:





4. Leonardo DiCaprio

We were all pulling for you, and you won. Congrats, buddy. That long-awaited Oscar is finally yours.





5. Adele

25. Need us say more?

25 out November 20th A photo posted by @adele on Oct 22, 2015 at 6:55am PDT





6. James Corden

It's true: Sometimes, The Late Late Show host is the host you most want to hate, but he's made it a monumental task, after all the amazing carpool karaoke videos he's gifted us with. Among the names he's wrangled: Mariah Carey, Madonna, Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, FLOTUS & Missy Elliot, Adele, One Direction, Sia, Elton John, Stevie Wonder, Britney Spears, Justin Bieber, the one and only Bruno Mars (and more!):

Corden also found a final jolt of relevance in 2016 when, in the wake of George Michael's recent passing, the very first Carpool Karaoke clip—featuring George Michael—resurfaced for all to love.

7. Lin Manuel-Miranda

The hottest ticket in town, dreamed up by a Puerto Rican kid from Washington Heights with a vision: To create one of the most revolutionary musicals of all time. He did, winning a Tony and a Pulitzer in the process.

The world was wide enough for 16 Tony Award nominations A photo posted by @lin.manuel_miranda on May 3, 2016 at 7:29am PDT

8. Beyoncé

Queen Bey came back with a vengeance in 2016, slaying all the people of the land with her sixth studio album Lemonade, to say nothing of the collective frenzy she put everyone in when she dropped that 10-second HBO promo on Instagram:

#LEMONADE 4.23 9PM ET | 6PM PT | HBO A video posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 16, 2016 at 9:00am PDT

Can't forget her hit single Formation, which she uploaded onto YouTube as an unlisted video.

Download "Formation" on TIDAL 👯👯👯 A photo posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Feb 6, 2016 at 12:52pm PST

And, of course, her appearance at the 2016 Super Bowl with Coldplay and Bruno Mars:

One more thing: This ponytail braid. Beyoncé, girl. We're not worthy!

Image: Buzzfeed

9. Queen Elizabeth II

Long live the Queen! Queen Elizabeth celebrated her 90th birthday this year, making her the longest-reigning British monarch.

💯 A photo posted by Her Majesty (@queenelizabeth) on Aug 31, 2016 at 2:32am PDT





10. Rihanna

Rihanna workworkworkworkworked everyone to the dance floor this year with the hottest. song. of. the. summer. It's a song also in contention to win Record of the Year at the upcoming Grammy Awards ceremony.





11. Lebron James

LeBron can do no wrong in the eyes of certified Clevelanders. The 32-year-old NBA superstar had a stellar 2016, one of those accomplishments being the guiding light behind the Cavaliers first NBA Championship—an incredibly unlikely, come-from-behind, historic win that they've always hoped and dreamed of having. All hail King James!

12. Young M.A

The female rapper with her single "OOOUUU" challenging the status quo with what it means to be a female rapper, changing the landscape of rap and pop right now, dramatically so:

🙏🏽 (📸 @apiecebyguy ) #YoungMA #RedLyfe A photo posted by Young M.A Official (@hennynhoes) on Oct 7, 2016 at 6:11pm PDT

13. DJ Khaled

MC. Producer. Entrepreneur. Media mogul. Snapchat-King. Just a the few of the titles you can classify DJ Khaled under. Add to that: One of the few people to have an incredible 2016.



He dropped one of his hottest albums to date back in July titled, Major🔑, which was also nominated for the 2017 Grammys in the Album of the Year category.

@recordingacademy GRAMMY NOMINATED #DJKHALED #MAJOR🔑 RAP ALBUM OF THE YEAR ! @wethebestmusic FAN LUV WE DID IT !! A photo posted by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on Dec 27, 2016 at 3:14pm PST

He was chosen by Beyoncé to open up for her Formation World Tour.

A video posted by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on Apr 19, 2016 at 10:50am PDT

DJ Khaled also became a proud new father this year, and utilized social media for everyone to see his newest arrival:

Never change, Khaled. Especially in 2017.