Gwyneth Paltrow’s Wellness Philosophy, in 10 Quotes
Gwyneth Paltrow’s Wellness Philosophy, in 10 Quotes
Credit: Eugene Gologursky/Getty Images Say what you want about Gwyneth Paltrow 's wellness philosophy, the woman looks great. The 44-year-old health guru can rock a bikini like nobody's business, not to mention her flawless complexion and radiant blonde locks. The mom-of-two has spoken a lot about her fitness routine, diets, and cleanses over the years, some quotes more relatable than others, but each valuable in their own right. In honor of Paltrow landing on our February cover, here, we rounded up her best quotes on health, fitness, and general wellness from over the years. On Her Famous Cleansing Routines "I like to do a cleanse once a year. But it's not just juices. And I don't do it for weight loss," she once said . On Making Time for Her Daughter "I'll probably get kicked out of our school for admitting this, but I let Apple stay home yesterday. I just needed to be with her. We went out to lunch, we went to the beauty salon, we were together," she said in 2011 . On Unplugging "If I make my kids something delicious and we sit down to eat it, and I put my phone away and I really listen, that is such money in the bank," she said in 2016 . Credit: gwynethpaltrow/Instagram On Her Change in Diet "I was very strict for a while. I was macrobiotic for a couple of years, then I got pregnant and just ate ice cream. What I've learned is I want to enjoy my life, and food is a big part of it. I love to cook and feed people. I cook every day," she told in 2012. On Processed Food "Anything that can live on a shelf for years and you can open out of a bag and eat: no," she once said . On Cheat Days "In my house, the food is healthy. But we have ice cream, and once a week, on the way to school, we stop at the corner shop in London and I let them pick out whatever they want. They get a bag of crisps or candy and a soda. It's called the Coke of the Week. I don't want them growing up in a hippie vacuum," she once told . On Motherhood and Being Mindful "I've learned so much from being a mom about the kind of person I want to be, the kind of woman I want to be. Motherhood has taught me mindfulness. If you just parent on instinct, you'll screw your kid up for life. You have to be so mindful," she told . Credit: gwynethpaltrow/Instagram On Taking Time for Herself "At first I was lying there , like, What am I not doing? What am I not doing? But then I thought, 'Can you take one hour? It's not like you're doing this every day.' So I really let everything go. And after, I thought, I wish I could get to this place every day, at least for a little while," she told . On Keeping Life in Balance "I try to eat organic food when I can, eat local food when I can, and eat as little processed food as possible. But, sometimes you need a bag of Doritos and a beer in an airport. We have to be modern and easy on ourselves as well," she told . On Her Ideal Last Meal "Oysters and cocktail sauce, and then a baked, stuffed lobster and french fries. I would have a baguette and a cheese course for my dessert, and red wine. I drank like crazy . How else could I get through my day?" she once said .



Credit: Eugene Gologursky/Getty Images

Say what you want about Gwyneth Paltrow's wellness philosophy, the woman looks great. The 44-year-old health guru can rock a bikini like nobody's business, not to mention her flawless complexion and radiant blonde locks.

The mom-of-two has spoken a lot about her fitness routine, diets, and cleanses over the years, some quotes more relatable than others, but each valuable in their own right. In honor of Paltrow landing on our February cover, here, we rounded up her best quotes on health, fitness, and general wellness from over the years.

On Her Famous Cleansing Routines

"I like to do a cleanse once a year. But it's not just juices. And I don't do it for weight loss," she once said.

On Making Time for Her Daughter

"I'll probably get kicked out of our school for admitting this, but I let Apple stay home yesterday. I just needed to be with her. We went out to lunch, we went to the beauty salon, we were together," she said in 2011.

On Unplugging

"If I make my kids something delicious and we sit down to eat it, and I put my phone away and I really listen, that is such money in the bank," she said in 2016.



Credit: gwynethpaltrow/Instagram

On Her Change in Diet

"I was very strict for a while. I was macrobiotic for a couple of years, then I got pregnant and just ate ice cream. What I've learned is I want to enjoy my life, and food is a big part of it. I love to cook and feed people. I cook every day," she told InStyle in 2012.

On Processed Food

"Anything that can live on a shelf for years and you can open out of a bag and eat: no," she once said.

On Cheat Days

"In my house, the food is healthy. But we have ice cream, and once a week, on the way to school, we stop at the corner shop in London and I let them pick out whatever they want. They get a bag of crisps or candy and a soda. It's called the Coke of the Week. I don't want them growing up in a hippie vacuum," she once told Redbook.

On Motherhood and Being Mindful

"I've learned so much from being a mom about the kind of person I want to be, the kind of woman I want to be. Motherhood has taught me mindfulness. If you just parent on instinct, you'll screw your kid up for life. You have to be so mindful," she told Good Housekeeping.



Credit: gwynethpaltrow/Instagram

Read More