Expensive Solar Road Technology Makes First Appearance In France
Expensive Solar Road Technology Makes First Appearance In France
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Federico Guerrini       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Well, you can't say they are not keeping their promises. In February, the French government announced the intention to pave 1,000 Km (621 miles) of road with solar panels over the next five years. French Minister for Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy Segolene Royal walks on a solar panel road during its inauguration in Tourouvre, Normandy.  (CHARLY TRIBALLEAU/AFP/Getty Images) A few months later, the first 1 kilometer road has been built , in the small Normandy village of Tourouvre-au-Perche. It will be used, according to official estimates, on average by 2,000 motorists per day, and it should be able to produce enough energy to power the city's streetlights. Not everyone's excited, though, as this limited outcome does not seem to justify the 5 million dollars spent for the project. But the French Minister for Environment, and the infrastructure company Colas, which has developed the photovoltaic road surface (called "Wattway") believe that costs will go down as the technology becomes more widespread. As Royal also pointed out, a positive side of this new use of solar energy is that it does not require any kind of civil engineering work, since "it takes advantage of large swathes of road infrastructure already in use...to produce electricity without taking up new real estate." A woman works a solar panel at SNA factory in Tourouvre. (CHARLY TRIBALLEAU/AFP/Getty Images) Still, the economics hardly add up. Rooftop panels are much cheaper and more effective at this stage, costing 13 times less than Wattway cells per kilowatt-peak, which brought critics like the vice-president of the French Network for Energetic Transition, Marc Jedliczka, to dub the experiment more like an engineering feat, and a "gadget" than a sustainable way to produce energy. The government is going ahead, apparently undeterred. On the same day the Tourouvre road was opened, Royal announced other trials to be conducted next year, in the Marseille Fos port , and on a section of Brittany's Route 164.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Well, you can't say they are not keeping their promises. In February, the French government announced the intention to pave 1,000 Km (621 miles) of road with solar panels over the next five years.

A few months later, the first 1 kilometer road has been built, in the small Normandy village of Tourouvre-au-Perche. It will be used, according to official estimates, on average by 2,000 motorists per day, and it should be able to produce enough energy to power the city's streetlights.

Not everyone's excited, though, as this limited outcome does not seem to justify the 5 million dollars spent for the project. But the French Minister for Environment, and the infrastructure company Colas, which has developed the photovoltaic road surface (called "Wattway") believe that costs will go down as the technology becomes more widespread.

As Royal also pointed out, a positive side of this new use of solar energy is that it does not require any kind of civil engineering work, since "it takes advantage of large swathes of road infrastructure already in use...to produce electricity without taking up new real estate."

Still, the economics hardly add up. Rooftop panels are much cheaper and more effective at this stage, costing 13 times less than Wattway cells per kilowatt-peak, which brought critics like the vice-president of the French Network for Energetic Transition, Marc Jedliczka, to dub the experiment more like an engineering feat, and a "gadget" than a sustainable way to produce energy.

The government is going ahead, apparently undeterred. On the same day the Tourouvre road was opened, Royal announced other trials to be conducted next year, in the Marseille Fos port, and on a section of Brittany's Route 164.