Istanbul Santa Claus terror attack sees footballer Sefa Boydas tell of struggle
Footballer who survived Istanbul attack tells of desperate struggle


A professional footballer who survived the Istanbul nightclub attack has told of how revellers struggled to leave building after a gunman dressed as Santa Claus opened fire.

Turkish star Sefa Boydas had been at the Reina nightclub in Istanbul's Ortaköy district when the gunman stormed the nightspot killing 39 people and injuring 69.

The nightclub had at least 700 party-goers in at the time and is regarded as one of the city's upmarket clubs, where only the best dressed gain entry.

A reveller who had been enjoying New Year celebrations at a nightclub in Istanbul is helped from the building following a gun attack

The nightclub had at least 700 party-goers in at the time and is regarded as one of the city's upmarket clubs, where only the best dressed gain entry

A crying woman embraces her friend in the street after flee the club which was stormed in the early hours of the morning

Turkish star Sefa Boydas, pictured, had been at the Reina nightclub in Istanbul's Ortaköy district when the gunman stormed the nightspot killing 39 people and injuring 69

And Boydas who plays for Istanbul club Beylerbeyi SK, said he has only been inside for about 10 minutes when he heard gunshots and one of his female friends fainted with shock.

He said: 'Just as we were settling down, by the door there was a lot of dust and smoke. Gunshots rang out.

'When those sounds were heard, many girls fainted.

'They say 35 to 40 died but it's probably more because when I was walking, people were walking on top of people.'

Dozens of ambulances and police vehicles were dispatched to the club in Ortakoy, a neighbourhood on the city’s European side nestled under one of three bridges crossing the Bosphorus and home to nightclubs, restaurants and art galleries.

Today the Reina nightclub was cordoned off by police as they begin an investigation into the shooting

A general view of the club from the Bosphorus River. Many people at the club jumped into the water into to take cover from the bullets

Boyda added: 'I didn’t see who was shooting but heard the gun shots and people fled. Police moved in quickly

'My girlfriend was wearing high heels. I lifted her and carried her out on my back.'

Another eyewitness Sinem Uyanik told the Associated Press she saw several bodies inside the Istanbul nightclub that was attacked during New Year's celebrations.

Her husband Lutfu Uyanik was wounded in the attack.

'Before I could understand what was happening, my husband fell on top me,' she said outside Istanbul's Sisli Hospital.

Families gathered outside a morgue in Istanbul to wait for news of their loved ones missing after the attack

A woman falls to the ground in tears after hearing bad news about one of her loved ones following the nightclub attack

Many of the victims' relatives broke down in tears as they waited on news on their family members

'I had to lift several bodies from on top of me before I could get out.'

Her husband was not in serious condition despite his wounds.

It came following reports many revellers jumped into the nearby Bosphorus River to take cover from the bullets.

Meanwhile another man who was thought to have been killed in the attack died despite earlier surviving a bombing outside a football stadium last month.

Police officer Fatih Çakmak was on duty at the nightclub during the New Year celebrations and was also working at the match between Beşiktaş and Bursaspor last month.

The city's governor has said the massacre was a terrorist attack as almost 40 people were gunned down

Medics carry a wounded person at the scene after an attack at the popular nightclub in Istanbul

Thirty five people were killed and a further 40 were injured in the atrocity, the city's governor announced

He escaped the bombing, which occurred after the match ended, unharmed, according to the Daily Sabah only to die in last night’s attack.

Meanwhile a handful of WNBA players, including Essence Carson, Chelsea Gray and Jantel Lavender of the Los Angeles Sparks, were next door to the deadly shooting at a nightclub in Istanbul.

Sparks coach Brian Agler confirmed that Carson had texted him that the three players were OK.

She had tweeted earlier in the evening that she was 'stuck inside of the club because of `terror' shooting in Istanbul. Praises to the most high.'

Others among the dead include 18-year-old Israeli woman Leanne Nasser as well as those from Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Libya and Lebanon.

Turkish police are now hunting for the gunman dressed as Santa Claus who opened fire at the club.