Britons must unite after their 'divisive' Brexit, Theresa May says in New Year message
Britons must unite after their 'divisive' Brexit, Theresa May says in New Year message
ritons must unite after their "divisive" decision to leave the European Union, Theresa May has said, as she pledged to use the next 12 months to make sure the UK gets the best Brexit deal. The Prime Minister quoted murdered Labour MP Jo Cox in her New Year's Day message and called on Britons to come together irrespective of how they voted in last summer's referendum. Mrs May also promised that 2017 will be the year in which Britain starts the process of leaving the EU and getting "the right deal" for Britons. owever Mrs May's comments were tempered by a tough New Year message from Angela Merkel in which the German Chancellor compared Brexit to a "deep incision" and warned that Britain would not face a "happy future" outside the EU. Mrs Merkel said the EU would to bear "deep cuts" from Britain leaving, adding: "We Germans should never deceive ourselves into thinking that a happy future could be achieved as nation separately." he German Chancellor said said that even though the EU was "slow and arduous", its member states should focus on common interests that transcend national benefits. In her message, Mrs May said: "I know that the referendum last June was divisive at times. I know, of course, that not everyone shared the same point of view, or voted in the same way. "But I know too that, as we face the opportunities ahead of us, our shared interests and ambitions can bring us together." ritain needed to come together, she said: "As the fantastic MP Jo Cox, who was so tragically taken from us last year, put it: 'We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us'." The Prime Minister said the UK was positioned to seize the "great opportunities" ahead in 2017 as the country formally starts the process of leaving the EU. She said: "We have made a momentous decision and set ourselves on a new direction. And if 2016 was the year you voted for that change, this is the year we start to make it happen. "I know that the referendum last June was divisive at times. I know, of course, that not everyone shared the same point of view, or voted in the same way. "But I know too that, as we face the opportunities ahead of us, our shared interests and ambitions can bring us together." Mrs May wanted to see a Britain in which "we are no longer the 52 per cent who voted Leave and the 48 per cent who voted Remain, but one great union of people and nations with a proud history and a bright future. "So, when I sit around the negotiating table in Europe this year, it will be with that in mind - the knowledge that I am there to get the right deal - not just for those who voted to Leave - but for every single person in this country." aul Nuttall, the new leader of the UK Independence Party, warned that the New Year could bring even greater upheaval than the twin seismic political events of the Brexit vote and the election of Donald Trump as US president. e also urged Theresa May to pursue a "clean Brexit" with total control over immigration and no payments to the European Union budget. In his New Year message, Mr Nuttall said: "Working class communities in this country went out in their droves and voted for Brexit. "The Rust Belt in the United States voted en masse for Donald Trump. If you think 2016 has been a year of upheaval, 2017 could be even bigger."

Britain needed to come together, she said: "As the fantastic MP Jo Cox, who was so tragically taken from us last year, put it: 'We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us'."

The Prime Minister said the UK was positioned to seize the "great opportunities" ahead in 2017 as the country formally starts the process of leaving the EU.

She said: "We have made a momentous decision and set ourselves on a new direction. And if 2016 was the year you voted for that change, this is the year we start to make it happen.

"I know that the referendum last June was divisive at times. I know, of course, that not everyone shared the same point of view, or voted in the same way.

"But I know too that, as we face the opportunities ahead of us, our shared interests and ambitions can bring us together."

Mrs May wanted to see a Britain in which "we are no longer the 52 per cent who voted Leave and the 48 per cent who voted Remain, but one great union of people and nations with a proud history and a bright future.

"So, when I sit around the negotiating table in Europe this year, it will be with that in mind - the knowledge that I am there to get the right deal - not just for those who voted to Leave - but for every single person in this country."