Would You Sacrifice Returns To Invest In Socially Responsible Companies?
Would You Sacrifice Returns To Invest In Socially Responsible Companies?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Peter Cohan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Why do you invest in stocks? Are you trying to get rich, preserve the money you've made, or feel good about where you invest? More people -- including managers of pension funds and endowments -- are picking individual stocks based on how well they do compared to their peers on environmental and social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG). Paige Kassalen, left, Commercial Trainee at Covestro LLC and Ground Crew Member of Solar Impulse, and Rebecca Lucore, Head of Sustainability and CSR. Nov. 3, 2016, in New York. (Andrew Kelly/AP Images for Covestro LLC) Sadly for investors, there is no clear evidence that a high ESG score leads to superior shareholder returns. If you want to feel good about where you put your money, use that ESG score as a guide. Otherwise, if you want to earn the highest return after fees over the long run you are probably better off making regular investments in an S&P 500 index fund. ESG is growing fast. MSCI -- known for its global stock indexes -- also runs an ESG index and research business whose revenues have grown at a 20% annual clip -- generating $44 million in 2016 revenues --  "making the segment the firm’s fastest-growing business," according to the . MSCI is not alone. According to a November 2016 report by the US SIF Foundation , assets managed with ESG factors have more than tripled to $8.1 trillion since 2010. The TIAA-CREF Social Choice Equity Fund has doubled to $2.3 billion since 2011; ETFs linked to MSCI ESG indexes have tripled to $3 billion since 2013; and a $2.4 billion Vanguard social index fund has quadrupled in size since 2011, according to the . I have been thinking about whether socially responsible companies can be good investments for years. For example, 13 years ago, my book  was published. The concept of value leadership is that companies should earn superior returns for shareholders by treating employees, customers, and communities better than competitors do. In that book, written in the wake of the Enron scandal, I tested out this proposition and found that eight public companies with high Value Quotients (VQ) -- calculated based on a 24-factor index of seven principles related to how they treated employees, customers, and communities -- would have made better investments than just buying an index. Specifically, these Value Leaders grew sales 35% faster, earned 109% higher net margins, and increase shareholder value almost five times faster than the market between 1992 and 2002. Unfortunately, I've found that a high VQ can deteriorate -- turning a leader into a laggard. A case in point is Wal-Mart which used to provide great career opportunities for employees when Sam Walton was CEO but in the last few decades has treated employees quite poorly as I saw with my own eyes when I tried to get one of them to help me buy a video game for my son many years ago. And ESG funds -- which have far more companies in them than the eight Value Leaders I highlighted -- tend to lag the broader market indices when it comes to shareholder returns. For example, the Times reported that "the TIAA-CREF social choice fund and the flagship MSCI exchange-traded fund have trailed the market slightly for the last five years, the Vanguard fund has topped it." But one fund that invests based on a combination of ESG and fundamental analysis -- the $14.8 billion Parnassus Core Equity Investor fund -- "beaten the market by more than two percentage points annually over the last 10 years," according to the Times. I doubt those market-beating returns take into account the higher fees that ESG funds charge -- to cover the costs of their active management -- compared to low-cost S&P 500 index funds. As I learned from calculating the VQs of the Value Leaders, the scoring of the factors that go into an ESG index are quite subjective. While I do not know the details of how MSCI adjusts its ESG scores for individual companies, I would guess that there is subjectivity involved there as well. The growth in ESG funds reveals that an increasing number of people are willing to pay a price -- in the form of lower investment returns after fees -- in exchange for the right to feel good about the companies in which they invest their money.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Why do you invest in stocks? Are you trying to get rich, preserve the money you've made, or feel good about where you invest?

More people -- including managers of pension funds and endowments -- are picking individual stocks based on how well they do compared to their peers on environmental and social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG).

Sadly for investors, there is no clear evidence that a high ESG score leads to superior shareholder returns. If you want to feel good about where you put your money, use that ESG score as a guide. Otherwise, if you want to earn the highest return after fees over the long run you are probably better off making regular investments in an S&P 500 index fund.

ESG is growing fast. MSCI -- known for its global stock indexes -- also runs an ESG index and research business whose revenues have grown at a 20% annual clip -- generating $44 million in 2016 revenues -- "making the segment the firm’s fastest-growing business," according to the New York Times.

MSCI is not alone. According to a November 2016 report by the US SIF Foundation, assets managed with ESG factors have more than tripled to $8.1 trillion since 2010. The TIAA-CREF Social Choice Equity Fund has doubled to $2.3 billion since 2011; ETFs linked to MSCI ESG indexes have tripled to $3 billion since 2013; and a $2.4 billion Vanguard social index fund has quadrupled in size since 2011, according to the Times.

4 CEOs On The Importance Of Being Good Corporate Citizens:

I have been thinking about whether socially responsible companies can be good investments for years. For example, 13 years ago, my book Value Leadership was published. The concept of value leadership is that companies should earn superior returns for shareholders by treating employees, customers, and communities better than competitors do.

In that book, written in the wake of the Enron scandal, I tested out this proposition and found that eight public companies with high Value Quotients (VQ) -- calculated based on a 24-factor index of seven principles related to how they treated employees, customers, and communities -- would have made better investments than just buying an index. Specifically, these Value Leaders grew sales 35% faster, earned 109% higher net margins, and increase shareholder value almost five times faster than the market between 1992 and 2002.

Unfortunately, I've found that a high VQ can deteriorate -- turning a leader into a laggard. A case in point is Wal-Mart which used to provide great career opportunities for employees when Sam Walton was CEO but in the last few decades has treated employees quite poorly as I saw with my own eyes when I tried to get one of them to help me buy a video game for my son many years ago.

And ESG funds -- which have far more companies in them than the eight Value Leaders I highlighted -- tend to lag the broader market indices when it comes to shareholder returns.

For example, the Times reported that "the TIAA-CREF social choice fund and the flagship MSCI exchange-traded fund have trailed the market slightly for the last five years, the Vanguard fund has topped it."

But one fund that invests based on a combination of ESG and fundamental analysis -- the $14.8 billion Parnassus Core Equity Investor fund -- "beaten the market by more than two percentage points annually over the last 10 years," according to the Times.

I doubt those market-beating returns take into account the higher fees that ESG funds charge -- to cover the costs of their active management -- compared to low-cost S&P 500 index funds.

As I learned from calculating the VQs of the Value Leaders, the scoring of the factors that go into an ESG index are quite subjective. While I do not know the details of how MSCI adjusts its ESG scores for individual companies, I would guess that there is subjectivity involved there as well.

The growth in ESG funds reveals that an increasing number of people are willing to pay a price -- in the form of lower investment returns after fees -- in exchange for the right to feel good about the companies in which they invest their money.