Fabolous And Trey Songz Ring In 2017 With 'Trappy New Years'
Fabolous And Trey Songz Ring In 2017 With 'Trappy New Years'
Trey Songz presumably spent New Year’s Eve at VLive Chicago for his scheduled appearance at their “Power Fridays” series, and Fabolous held down a similar gig at Atlanta’s SL Lounge. Sometime before the ball dropped, the pair collaborated on the mixtape to celebrate the arrival of 2017 and bad puns. The six-song project dropped Sunday via DatPiff.com as a free download. Last week, Fab posted Instagram shots of himself and Trey in a Bay Area recording studio putting the final touches on the project. According to Fabolous, he changed his travel arrangements and spent an extra day recording. when you Stay in the Bay a extra Day to cook up wit Trey.. , might be on the Way #Oakland A photo posted by ( ) on Dec 23, 2016 at 8: PST  marks familiar territory for Trey Songz and Fabolous, as the pair previously collaborated on Trey Songz’s 2009 single “Say Aah,” an unofficial remix of Rihanna’s “Sex With Me” and the Nicki Minaj-assisted “Doin’ It Well.” After dropping in September, is Fab’s second project in four months. Trey Songz’s last studio, solo release was the album , which was released in June of 2015.

Trey Songz presumably spent New Year’s Eve at VLive Chicago for his scheduled appearance at their “Power Fridays” series, and Fabolous held down a similar gig at Atlanta’s SL Lounge. Sometime before the ball dropped, the pair collaborated on the Trappy New Years mixtape to celebrate the arrival of 2017 and bad puns. The six-song project dropped Sunday via DatPiff.com as a free download.

Last week, Fab posted Instagram shots of himself and Trey in a Bay Area recording studio putting the final touches on the project. According to Fabolous, he changed his travel arrangements and spent an extra day recording.

when you Stay in the Bay a extra Day to cook up wit Trey.. shiiiiiittt, sum'n might be on the Way @treysongz #Oakland A photo posted by Fabolous (@myfabolouslife) on Dec 23, 2016 at 8:46pm PST



Trappy New Years marks familiar territory for Trey Songz and Fabolous, as the pair previously collaborated on Trey Songz’s 2009 single “Say Aah,” an unofficial remix of Rihanna’s “Sex With Me” and the Nicki Minaj-assisted “Doin’ It Well.”

After dropping Summertime Shootout 2: The Level Up in September, Trappy New Years is Fab’s second project in four months. Trey Songz’s last studio, solo release was the album Trigga Reloaded, which was released in June of 2015.