Hurricanes equipment manager Jorge Alves makes (brief) NHL debut in net — at age 37
Hurricanes equipment manager Jorge Alves makes (brief) NHL debut in net — at age 37
Jorge Alves signed a professional tryout contract with the Carolina Hurricanes earlier on Saturday. Already an equipment manager with the team, Alves was needed as an emergency back-up to Cam Ward against the Tampa Bay Lightning. Eddie Lack wasn’t feeling well, so he didn’t dress. With just a few seconds remaining in the third period, and the Hurricanes trailing by two goals, Alves, who has experience as a minor league professional goalie, was brought off the bench and into the game, making his NHL debut — at the age of 37. He played a total of eight seconds, and didn’t face a shot. But it still seemed like a tremendous experience for him, even if it was brief. “It’s a surprise. It’s unbelievable. I was actually heading back down into the tunnel when I heard my name. I looked back and I was like, ‘What?’ And coach said, ‘Get your stuff on,'” he told reporters .  “It was … amazing. I couldn’t believe it. “I just remembered looking down the ice and seeing the puck in the corner and saying, ‘Stay in that corner.’ Yeah, it was amazing. It’s still pretty emotional for me.” His teammates let him take a lap by himself during the pre-game skate. There were even images and clips of him working the skate sharpener in the hallway and taping sticks — while in his goalie gear. “Can’t shake the habit,” he joked. “No, I have a duty with the team and I wasn’t going to break that.” Scroll Down For: Jeremy Roenick went “Off Script” with Kathryn Tappen on NBCSN on Monday, resulting in the former NHL providing insight on a variety of topics. Roenick’s been a dream fit for the studio in many ways, but a more free-flowing conversation is an even better fit for a player who once traded barbs with Patrick Roy … and plenty of other players and coaches. Speaking of his interactions with coaches, Roenick said that he has some regrets for how he interacted with Darryl Sutter: It’s no secret that Roenick believes that “Iron” Mike Keenan helped to mold his rugged game, making him more than just a potent scorer. You can hear him discuss how that fear factor impacted JR in this clip . There was rarely a dull moment in Roenick’s playing career, so it makes sense that he was such an engaging guest on “Off Script.” The next month-and-a-half could bring the Doug Weight honeymoon period to a screeching halt for the New York Islanders, but the good feelings lasted at least one more night. Mike Babcock? He’s probably not feeling too happy. The Toronto Maple Leafs did salvage a standings point, and their young guns did look great on Monday, but Babs is likely fuming about a 6-5 overtime win for the Islanders. He’ll be unhappy with the wide-open game, and also probably with the fact that Andrew Ladd ‘s tying goal came with just 1:29 left in the third. Still, those Leafs kids are alright: The Maple Leafs squandered leads of 2-1, 4-2 and 5-4 in eventually losing to the red-hot Islanders. Brock Nelson was one of the Islanders’ biggest heroes, scoring two goals, including the overtime-clincher. Looking at the big picture, it’s more of a mixed bag for both teams. Yes, the Maple Leafs suffered from the downside of a wide-open style: Frederik Andersen has an .888 save percentage since the start of January. That's the other side of firewagon hockey. — Chris Johnston (@reporterchris) February 7, 2017 Still, it’s easy to forget that the Maple Leafs were closing off a six-game road trip. Tuesday begins a four-game homestand and they play eight of their next 10 games at home. Even with a congested schedule, the Maple Leafs gain great opportunities to put even more distance between themselves and the Boston Bruins. Tonight’s single point pushes Toronto to third in the Atlantic while the B’s fell out of the East’s top eight altogether: Canadiens – 68 points in 54 games Senators – 60 points in 50 games Maple Leafs – 58 in 51 Bruins – 58 in 55 Panthers – 56 in 52 Rangers – 67 in 52 Flyers – 59 in 54 Bruins – 58 in 55 Islanders – 56 in 51 Panthers – 56 in 52 Devils – 56 in 54 (New Jersey beat Buffalo 2-1 on Monday) See full standings here. As you can see, the Islanders find themselves in a remarkable spot. When you consider their games in hand edge over the Bruins and Flyers, their playoff dreams seem surprisingly reasonable right now. There’s some reason to believe that Weight & Co. might stumble, however. The Islanders play three of their next four games on the road, but the challenges get scarier as you head into mid-March. Just three of their next 16 games take place in Brooklyn, with a nine-game road trip from Feb. 21 – March 11 standing as the biggest hurdle to clear. So, yeah, the Maple Leafs’ and Islanders’ schedule argue that these two teams could be feeling very differently in the next few weeks. Then again, such thoughts cement this as a pretty important win for the Islanders. They might just be able to withstand the challenges ahead if they continue to gather momentum. The St. Louis Blues managed to grind out a 2-0 win against the Philadelphia Flyers on Monday, moving into the Western Conference’s wild card spot, at least for the time being. The Flyers remain in the East’s final spot as well, which might be where the good news ends for Philly. For the second straight game, they failed to score a single goal as Carter Hutton stopped all 26 shots. While Paul Stastny ‘s 1-0 goal (and eventual game-winner) was debatable , there’s no denying a rare goal for Kenny Agostino: It was a frustrating night for the Flyers, who were unable to capitalize on an 11-1 shots on goal advantage in the first period. They were shut out 1-0 in overtime against the Kings on Saturday and have lost three of four, being limited to a single goal in those three losses. The Flyers also lost Travis Konecny  to what looked like a painful injury , so this was just a rough night for Philadelphia. If nothing else, the Flyers are at least in a better spot than the Boston Bruins. See how the Islanders’ OT win against the Maple Leafs mixes up the East playoff picture here. The Flyers are currently 1-1-1 on a five-game homestand. The fourth game in this stretch is especially important as they’ll host the rising New York Islanders on Thursday. Philly needs to shake this one off quickly, then. St. Louis didn’t exactly dominate Philadelphia here, yet the Blues have won two of their last three games. This is the way they wanted to begin the Mike Yeo era and also the way they wanted to start the week, as this win begins what could be a daunting five-game road trip. #stlblues with just 16 shots on goal…Tarasenko with zero. Agostino with 4 — Andy Strickland (@andystrickland) February 7, 2017 Travis Konecny’s return to the Philadelphia Flyers’ lineup might be short-lived. He was a healthy scratch for two games, but he got the nod on Monday – while Shayne Gostisbehere remains in street clothes – against the St. Louis Blues. Unfortunately, he suffered an injury during the second period and will not return . Flyers GM Ron Hextall said that an update will likely come on Tuesday. The Flyers didn’t specify much beyond that, yet it could be a lower-body injury if this was the moment he got hurt. It certainly painful: Konecny goes awkwardly into the boards pic.twitter.com/WVINJvFkKv — Sons of Penn (@SonsofPenn) February 7, 2017 Yikes. Tough night for the Flyers so far, who currently trail the Blues 2-0 about midway through the third. It may also be a shoulder issue, by the way: Konecy injured going into the boards. He was holding his shoulder limping off ice but the brunt of injury was to his left knee and ankle. — Tim Panaccio (@tpanotchCSN) February 7, 2017

Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

The next month-and-a-half could bring the Doug Weight honeymoon period to a screeching halt for the New York Islanders, but the good feelings lasted at least one more night.

Mike Babcock? He’s probably not feeling too happy.

The Toronto Maple Leafs did salvage a standings point, and their young guns did look great on Monday, but Babs is likely fuming about a 6-5 overtime win for the Islanders. He’ll be unhappy with the wide-open game, and also probably with the fact that Andrew Ladd‘s tying goal came with just 1:29 left in the third.

Still, those Leafs kids are alright:

The Maple Leafs squandered leads of 2-1, 4-2 and 5-4 in eventually losing to the red-hot Islanders. Brock Nelson was one of the Islanders’ biggest heroes, scoring two goals, including the overtime-clincher.

The good and the bad for each team

Looking at the big picture, it’s more of a mixed bag for both teams.

Yes, the Maple Leafs suffered from the downside of a wide-open style:

Frederik Andersen has an .888 save percentage since the start of January. That's the other side of firewagon hockey. — Chris Johnston (@reporterchris) February 7, 2017

Still, it’s easy to forget that the Maple Leafs were closing off a six-game road trip. Tuesday begins a four-game homestand and they play eight of their next 10 games at home. Even with a congested schedule, the Maple Leafs gain great opportunities to put even more distance between themselves and the Boston Bruins.

Tonight’s single point pushes Toronto to third in the Atlantic while the B’s fell out of the East’s top eight altogether:

Top five in Atlantic:

Canadiens – 68 points in 54 games

Senators – 60 points in 50 games

Maple Leafs – 58 in 51

Bruins – 58 in 55

Panthers – 56 in 52

East wild card races

Rangers – 67 in 52

Flyers – 59 in 54

Bruins – 58 in 55

Islanders – 56 in 51

Panthers – 56 in 52

Devils – 56 in 54 (New Jersey beat Buffalo 2-1 on Monday)

See full standings here.

As you can see, the Islanders find themselves in a remarkable spot. When you consider their games in hand edge over the Bruins and Flyers, their playoff dreams seem surprisingly reasonable right now.

There’s some reason to believe that Weight & Co. might stumble, however.

The Islanders play three of their next four games on the road, but the challenges get scarier as you head into mid-March. Just three of their next 16 games take place in Brooklyn, with a nine-game road trip from Feb. 21 – March 11 standing as the biggest hurdle to clear.

So, yeah, the Maple Leafs’ and Islanders’ schedule argue that these two teams could be feeling very differently in the next few weeks.

Then again, such thoughts cement this as a pretty important win for the Islanders. They might just be able to withstand the challenges ahead if they continue to gather momentum.