18 Acts Of Kindness That Will Restore Your Faith In Humanity
18 Acts Of Kindness That Will Restore Your Faith In Humanity
We asked the BuzzFeed Community what the nicest thing they’ve ever done for their parents is. Here are some of the sweetest and most original responses: Technology At Its Best: and put it into a heart-shaped pillow my sister had made. So that my mom always had the ability to hear my grandma’s voice.” – Tanyajessica Number One Fan: “My mom wrote a book once that wasn’t very successful. ” – brooklynm43102c298 Puppy Love: “When I was young I knew about this stuffed toy dog my mom had under her bed. I would ask to play with him but my mom always said no because it was old and had many busted seams. On Christmas she unwrapped it and was confused until she took a closer look. The stuffed dog now sits on top of her bed where everyone can snuggle him.” – katherinen4f7d7e368 Paid Time Off: “My parents have six kids and work incredibly hard to provide for us and get us some really nice stuff, so this year, and everything. I can’t wait to see their faces when they find out!” – magncheese97 Sweet Sentiment: “My dad passed nine years ago, but while he was alive, in every card he gave my mom, he would sign it, ‘All my love, always.’ For Mother’s Day, The memory of the look on her face when I gave it to her still makes me smile.” – ccull Making Things Right: “ So a few years later I got a job and saved up all my tiny pay checks for a few weeks and bought her a new one for Christmas. She cried.” – jennaw439c0bcf0 You Are The Reason: “For Mother’s Day one year Then when Mother’s Day rolled around again I got a scarf printed for her with all 52 reasons handwritten on it. Never gonna top that for the rest of my life.” – alessandrar7 Santa’s Not-So-Little Helpers: “All through middle and high school my mom would ask us to get our picture taken with Santa at the mall but we thought we were were way too cool for it. When she opened it, I’ll never forget the look on her face. She bawled.” – alexf4bb890ca1 Above and BEYond: “My mom is a highly known dedicated member of Beyoncé’s BEY HIVE. So when I even dropped her off at the concert and picked her up from a friend’s house later.” – whitneymarquette A Fresh Start: “Last year for Mother’s Day It took me two days. When I was done I left her a note that said ‘Welcome to your new room!’ with instructions on how to find things and work any newly implemented systems. – graceb40abd7f9e Up, Up, and Away: “The Christmas before I left for university, When they opened it, I turned on ‘Stuff We Did’ from , and we all cried as they looked at pictures and quotes chronologically. On the very last page I wrote, ‘Thanks for the adventure, now go have a new one.’” – jessicak411e32390 Things Remembered: “ When they opened it they immediately got the theme and it brought back memories of when they were first married. It was a really simple way to acknowledge their anniversary and they still talk about how much they loved it.” – olivejuice520 Soul Therapy: “ She cried when we told her. They both needed some time away to relax before things got intense, and they definitely enjoyed themselves.” – russo113 A Kettle Keepsake: “When I was 14, my parents were in a bad financial situation. Being traditional Brits though, we drank a ridiculous amount of tea. However, our kettle was old and took a quarter of an hour to boil, and it’d leak. So They loved it and it made life so much easier, being able to quickly boil water.” – romuluswolf A Helping Hand: “ ” – hardbackbooks Sent From The Heart: “For my mom’s 53rd birthday, (ended up with way more than 53 reasons because my mom is the best). She cried and said it was the best gift she’s ever received.” – aprilb37 What’s Mine Is Yours: “ because I thought they needed it more than I did.” – bethaniem Simple and Effective: – juieryan Make sure to follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter for your chance to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts! This post has been edited and condensed for clarity.   17 Moms Who Are So Fucking Classic    This Quiz Will Accurately Predict If You'll Get Pregnant...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.