Dog Mauls Family After One of Its Owners Tried to Dress Him in a Sweater
Dog Mauls Family After One of Its Owners Tried to Dress Him in a Sweater
A dog in Tampa, Florida, mauled three family members after one of them tried to dress him in a sweater Friday (Dec. 30). According to ABC News-affiliate , the pit bull mix named Scarface turned on 52-year-old Brenda Guerrero as she attempted to put him in clothes. Authorities said shortly after the pet began biting on the woman’s arm in the family’s backyard, her husband, Ismael, tried to pull the dog off. Scarface then began mauling Ismael, which prompted their 22-year-old son Antoine Harris to grab a knife and stab the dog in the neck and head to thwart the attack. The animal then went after Harris. Thankfully, all three family members were able to escape into the house, leaving Scarface in the backyard until police arrived. Authorities responded aggressively. "When they tazed the dog the dog was still pulling away and was able to release the prongs from the tazer,” Eddy Durkin with Tampa police told . Animal Control was called to the scene and shot the dog with a tranquilizer; however, it took a bean bag gun and another taser shot to subdue the dog. Scarface was eventually captured with a “catch pole.” The Guerreros were taken to the hospital to be treated for the bites. Brenda’s injuries are said to be serious but not life threatening. As of press time, it’s unclear whether the dog will be euthanized.

A dog in Tampa, Florida, mauled three family members after one of them tried to dress him in a sweater Friday (Dec. 30).

According to ABC News-affiliate WFTS, the pit bull mix named Scarface turned on 52-year-old Brenda Guerrero as she attempted to put him in clothes. Authorities said shortly after the pet began biting on the woman’s arm in the family’s backyard, her husband, Ismael, tried to pull the dog off. Scarface then began mauling Ismael, which prompted their 22-year-old son Antoine Harris to grab a knife and stab the dog in the neck and head to thwart the attack. The animal then went after Harris.

Thankfully, all three family members were able to escape into the house, leaving Scarface in the backyard until police arrived. Authorities responded aggressively.

"When they tazed the dog the dog was still pulling away and was able to release the prongs from the tazer,” Eddy Durkin with Tampa police told WFTS.

Animal Control was called to the scene and shot the dog with a tranquilizer; however, it took a bean bag gun and another taser shot to subdue the dog. Scarface was eventually captured with a “catch pole.”

The Guerreros were taken to the hospital to be treated for the bites. Brenda’s injuries are said to be serious but not life threatening.

As of press time, it’s unclear whether the dog will be euthanized.