These 2017 'polar bear plunge' pics will give you chills
These 2017 'polar bear plunge' pics will give you chills
One way to spend New Year's Day: Sitting on your couch in cozy pajamas, devouring a novel or ceaselessly streaming Another option? Plunging into frigid waters, only to step back out into the freezing January air. Hundreds of people in the United States and Canada chose the second route on Sunday as part of their local New Year's Day traditions. SEE ALSO: Fearless man jumps into partially frozen lake to rescue a dog Revelers in Prince Edward Island, Canada, rolled around in chunks of ice amid fierce winds. Ontario residents stormed the chilly shores of Lake Ontario and Lake Erie. Swimmers from Washington state, Ohio, New Jersey and New York took the plunge in elaborate costumes and skimpy Speedos. Many participants tied their hypothermia-tempting antics to a good cause. In New York City, for example, the Coney Island Polar Bear Club raised money for Camp Sunshine, a retreat for children with life-threatening illnesses. In Calgary, Canada, the organization Old Guys in Action helped raise over $68,000 to help fight human trafficking. Here's a look at some of Sunday's frigid festivities: People participate in the annual Polar Bear Plunge in Brigantine, New Jersey, Jan. 1, 2017. Image:  Dale Gerhard/The Press of Atlantic City via AP Image:  Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press via AP Swimmers run into the ocean during Coney Island Polar Bear Club's New Year's Day Plunge in Brooklyn, New York, Jan. 1 2017. Image:  Yana Paskova/Getty Images Steve Sisney does a flip off of the bridge as he and fellow revelers take part in the annual Olalla Polar Bear Plunge in Olalla, Washington, Jan. 1, 2017. Image:  Meegan M. Reid/KItsap Sun via AP Kelsey Plett, left, and his wife Jill Plett celebrate their first anniversary leaping into a pond during the annual Polar Bear Dip in Calgary, Alberta, Jan. 1, 2017. Over 70 people braved the elements to take part in the dip. Image:  Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP Swimmers run into the ocean during Coney Island Polar Bear Club's New Year's Day Plunge in Brooklyn, New York, Jan. 1. 2017. Image:  Yana Paskova/Getty Images Participants run into Lake Ontario as they take part in the Courage Polar Bear Dip in Oakville, Ont., Jan. 1, 2017. Image:  Chris Young/The Canadian Press via AP One more time, for good measure. Image:  Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press via AP BONUS: Otters sledding through the snow will make you fall in love with winter

One way to spend New Year's Day: Sitting on your couch in cozy pajamas, devouring a novel or ceaselessly streaming Gilmore Girls.

Another option? Plunging into frigid waters, only to step back out into the freezing January air.

Hundreds of people in the United States and Canada chose the second route on Sunday as part of their local New Year's Day traditions.

SEE ALSO: Fearless man jumps into partially frozen lake to rescue a dog

Revelers in Prince Edward Island, Canada, rolled around in chunks of ice amid fierce winds. Ontario residents stormed the chilly shores of Lake Ontario and Lake Erie. Swimmers from Washington state, Ohio, New Jersey and New York took the plunge in elaborate costumes and skimpy Speedos.

Many participants tied their hypothermia-tempting antics to a good cause.

In New York City, for example, the Coney Island Polar Bear Club raised money for Camp Sunshine, a retreat for children with life-threatening illnesses. In Calgary, Canada, the organization Old Guys in Action helped raise over $68,000 to help fight human trafficking.

Here's a look at some of Sunday's frigid festivities:

People participate in the annual Polar Bear Plunge in Brigantine, New Jersey, Jan. 1, 2017. Image: Dale Gerhard/The Press of Atlantic City via AP

Image: Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press via AP

Swimmers run into the ocean during Coney Island Polar Bear Club's New Year's Day Plunge in Brooklyn, New York, Jan. 1 2017. Image: Yana Paskova/Getty Images

Steve Sisney does a flip off of the bridge as he and fellow revelers take part in the annual Olalla Polar Bear Plunge in Olalla, Washington, Jan. 1, 2017. Image: Meegan M. Reid/KItsap Sun via AP

Kelsey Plett, left, and his wife Jill Plett celebrate their first anniversary leaping into a pond during the annual Polar Bear Dip in Calgary, Alberta, Jan. 1, 2017. Over 70 people braved the elements to take part in the dip. Image: Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP

Swimmers run into the ocean during Coney Island Polar Bear Club's New Year's Day Plunge in Brooklyn, New York, Jan. 1. 2017. Image: Yana Paskova/Getty Images

Participants run into Lake Ontario as they take part in the Courage Polar Bear Dip in Oakville, Ont., Jan. 1, 2017. Image: Chris Young/The Canadian Press via AP