Noah Spence dislocates shoulder, pops it back in to keep playing
Noah Spence dislocates shoulder, pops it back in to keep playing
Noah Spence dislocates shoulder, pops it back in to keep playing Bill Walsh, Ronnie Lott played big role in shaping John Lynch Vote: Who was the biggest snub in this year's Pro Football Hall of Fame? Ronnie Lott: Tampa 2 role made hall vote difficult for John Lynch Vote: Which finalists should be elected into the Pro Football Hall of Fame? The NFL's best Madden player is ... Chiefs safety Eric Berry Seahawks DE Michael Bennett still not over breakup with Bucs Vikings' Griffen: Players stepped up at Pro Bowl Mike Evans' Pro Bowl nod feeds Harry Potter habit QB Urgency Scale: Rating all 32 NFL teams going into 2017 Bucs need more weapons for Jameis Winston to contend for Super Bowl NFC South once again flexes its muscles as strong playoff division Falcons' Matt Ryan is NFC South offensive MVP Mel Kiper projects Michigan's Taco Charlton to Bucs in first round If not Vikes, Peterson to look at Giants, Bucs Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered the Buccaneers since 2009 Joined ESPN in 2016 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment TAMPA, Fla. -- Tampa Bay Buccaneers rookie defensive end Noah Spence said he dislocated his shoulder in Sunday’s 17-16 win over the Carolina Panthers and popped it back into place himself so he could continue playing. “It dislocated again,” said the former second-round draft pick. “My arm popped out and I put it back in.” Spence suffered a dislocated shoulder and a partially torn labrum in Week 4 against the Denver Broncos and continued playing through it, not missing a single game. The injury has required him to wear a neoprene harness designed to keep it in place, but those braces can't prevent everything. His injury Sunday happened late in the third quarter. He attempted to reset the joint while on the field and he was back in action for the fourth quarter. He finished the game with three tackles and a quarterback hit. “It didn’t feel good,” Spence said, laughing. “I knew it was the last game and I just wanted to give it all for my team. So I did. I wasn’t going out.” Sweeping the Panthers to finish the season 9-7 did feel good, however. “Man, it felt great,” said Spence. “That’s why I wanted to be out there, man. It feels great to come out and get this win with all these guys. ... I love these guys. I was going to put all I could into playing for these guys.” Quarterback Jameis Winston praised his teammate’s toughness. “That doesn’t surprise me, with the type of player Noah Spence is,” Winston said. “I would like to think I’d have done the same thing, honestly.” Spence said he will probably get an MRI in the next couple of days to determine if he’ll need surgery. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

TAMPA, Fla. -- Tampa Bay Buccaneers rookie defensive end Noah Spence said he dislocated his shoulder in Sunday’s 17-16 win over the Carolina Panthers and popped it back into place himself so he could continue playing.

“It dislocated again,” said the former second-round draft pick. “My arm popped out and I put it back in.”

Spence suffered a dislocated shoulder and a partially torn labrum in Week 4 against the Denver Broncos and continued playing through it, not missing a single game. The injury has required him to wear a neoprene harness designed to keep it in place, but those braces can't prevent everything.

His injury Sunday happened late in the third quarter. He attempted to reset the joint while on the field and he was back in action for the fourth quarter. He finished the game with three tackles and a quarterback hit.

“It didn’t feel good,” Spence said, laughing. “I knew it was the last game and I just wanted to give it all for my team. So I did. I wasn’t going out.”

Sweeping the Panthers to finish the season 9-7 did feel good, however.

“Man, it felt great,” said Spence. “That’s why I wanted to be out there, man. It feels great to come out and get this win with all these guys. ... I love these guys. I was going to put all I could into playing for these guys.”

Quarterback Jameis Winston praised his teammate’s toughness.

“That doesn’t surprise me, with the type of player Noah Spence is,” Winston said. “I would like to think I’d have done the same thing, honestly.”

Spence said he will probably get an MRI in the next couple of days to determine if he’ll need surgery.