Kim Jong Un says North Korea close to testing ICBM
Kim Jong Un says North Korea close to testing ICBM
Kim Jong Un says North Korea close to testing ICBM Updated 1703 GMT (0103 HKT) January 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights Kim referred to his country as a "nuclear and military power," state media says The country conducted two nuclear tests and various missile tests in 2016 Kim determined to develop nukes by the end of 2017 "at all costs," defector says North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said that his country is close to testing an intercontinental ballistic missile. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH K.J Kwon reported from Seoul, and Joshua Berlinger wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Brad Lendon contributed to this report

Story highlights Kim referred to his country as a "nuclear and military power," state media says

The country conducted two nuclear tests and various missile tests in 2016

Kim determined to develop nukes by the end of 2017 "at all costs," defector says

Seoul (CNN) North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said that his country is close to testing an intercontinental ballistic missile.

"Research and development of the cutting-edge tech weapons are actively progressing and strengthening our defense capabilities, including last stage preparation of tests for intercontinental ballistic rocket launch have been continuously succeeding," Kim said in a televised address on New Year's Day.

The speech was full of the North's usual self-congratulatory, lofty proclamations and anti-Western rhetoric.

Kim referred to North Korea as a "nuclear and military power in the east that formidable enemy dare encroach on" and said "unless the US and its vassal forces stop nuclear threat and blackmail and unless they stop the war exercises which they stage right at our noses under the pretext of annual exercises, the DPRK would keep increasing the military capabilities for self-defense and preemptive striking capacity with a main emphasis on nuclear force," according to state news agency KCNA.

JUST WATCHED What could Trump do about North Korea? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What could Trump do about North Korea? 02:29

But there's reason to take Kim's threats more seriously than those in years past.