Blast in Baghdad's Sadr City kills at least 16
Blast in Baghdad's Sadr City kills at least 32


A car bomb attack in a busy square in Baghdad has killed at least 32 people.

The blast happened in the sprawling Sadr City district this morning and also wounded more than 40 people.

It came after a suicide bomber blew up his explosives-laden vehicle in the bustling market where many of the victims were daily labourers waiting for jobs at an intersection.

A burned vehicle is removed from the site of car bomb attack in a busy square at Baghdad's sprawling Sadr City district

Iraqi security forces and on-passers inspect a charred vehicle on the site of the bomb attack this morning

In an online statement, ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it targeted Shiites

Pictures posted on social media shortly after the explosion showed a huge plume of black smoke billowing into the sky and seriously injured people being evacuated.

In an online statement, ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it targeted Shiites.

During a press conference with French president Francois Hollande, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said the bomber pretended to be a man seeking to hire day laborers.

He explained that once the laborers gathered around, he detonated the vehicle and warned that 'terrorists will further try to hit civilians to make up for the losses,' they have suffered on the battlefield.

'We are determined to annihilate terrorism and we are able to shorten its age,' he said, calling on security forces and civilians to remain vigilant.

Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said the bomber pretended to be a man seeking to hire day laborers

Blood stains are seen at the site of the car bomb in a busy square in Baghdad which left 32 dead

The attack also comes as ISIS rained down on Iraqi military positions north of the capital and killed 16 pro-government fighters dead.

Meanwhile, three bombs killed 29 people across Baghdad on Saturday, and an attack near the southern city of Najaf on Sunday left seven policemen dead.

U.S.-backed Iraqi forces are currently fighting to push ISIS, the Sunni Muslim militant group, from the northern city of Mosul, the fighters' last major stronghold in the country, but are facing fierce resistance.

A car bomb attack in a busy square in the Sadr City area of Baghdad has killed at least 32 people

Pictures posted on social media shortly after the explosion showed a huge plume of black smoke billowing into the sky and seriously injured people being evacuated

The recapture of Mosul would probably spell the end for the jihadi's self-styled caliphate, but the militants would still be capable of fighting a guerrilla-style insurgency in Iraq, and plotting or inspiring attacks on the West.

Since the offensive began on October 17, elite forces have retaken a quarter of Mosul in the biggest ground operation in Iraq since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein.

Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi has said the group would be driven out of the country by April.

As clashes continued in and around Mosul on Monday, ISIS also targeted military positions away from the main battlefield.

Militants attacked an army barracks near Baiji, north of Baghdad, killing four soldiers and wounding 12 people, including Sunni tribal fighters, army and police sources said.

U.S.-backed Iraqi forces are currently fighting to push ISIS, the Sunni Muslim militant group, from the northern city of Mosul, pictured

Since the offensive began on October 17, elite forces have retaken a quarter of Mosul in the biggest ground operation in Iraq since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein (file picture)

They seized weapons there and launched mortars at nearby Shirqat, forcing security forces to impose a curfew and close schools and offices in the town, according to local officials and security sources.

Shirqat mayor Ali Dodah said ISIS seized three checkpoints on the main road linking Baiji to Shirqat following the attacks. Shelling in Shirqat had killed at least two children, he told Reuters by phone.

In a separate incident, gunmen broke into a village near Udhaim, where they executed nine Sunni tribal fighters with shots to the head, police and medical sources said.