Bin collections cancelled? Just keep your rubbish fresh in the freezer, says council
Bin collections cancelled? Just keep your rubbish fresh in the freezer, says council
council is facing ridicule after advising residents to put their rubbish in the freezer to stop it smelling after it cancelled collections over Christmas and New Year. Derby City Council issued a list of Christmas waste and recycling tips to get them through a 10-day period without any refuse rounds which included a call for people to bag up food waste and store it in the freezer until the next collection. The advice, displayed on a web page interspersed with animated snow, also recommends encouraging children to use old baked beans tins as a craft project, despite the sharp edges. It also directs Derby residents to a further list of craft tips to cut waste including how to make a Thanksgiving Turkey napkin holder and a Pilgrim Fathers hat made from a bucket and a brown paper bag. Follow these tips to help you reduce, re-use and #recycle this #Christmas  https://t.co/oQMMMxi7HU  #Recycle4Derby  #LovefoodHatewaste he council, which has seen its budget effectively halved in real terms since the onset of George Osborne’s austerity cuts in 2010, has been warning residents of “difficult decisions” ahead to cope with “shrinking budgets”. Councils across the country have been struggling to balance a legal requirement to provide essential services such as refuse and care for elderly and disabled people with others such as parks and sports facilities which are not protected in the same way. But residents of Derby ridiculed the council advice as farcical and patronising and questioned why other local authorities were able to carry out some collections during the festive period. erby City Council announced last month that there would be no collections between December 23 and January 3. In practice, however, because the city operates a rotating fortnightly collection with different types of waste taken away on alternate weeks , some could face a month-long gap between some types of rubbish being removed if they miss a pick-up window. The council advice warns of the risk of leftover food attracting vermin such as rats and foxes if not “disposed of properly” in a sealed bag inside a bin with a secure lid. It then adds: “Tip: You can also put bagged food waste in the freezer to stop it going off and smelling, until your next bin collection is due.” he advice goes on: “Could that gigantic cardboard box be re-used to store Christmas decorations? “Maybe all those empty bean tins could be a craft project for the kids?” Writing on the council’s Facebook page one resident, Richard Smith, replied: “Could these tips be any more patronising? “How about just collecting our bins? “Every other council in the area seems to have managed it over Christmas.” Writing on the Derby Telegraph website, another resident, Robert Foreman, added: “Putting food waste in your freezer? “Seriously, sometimes I cannot believe what I am reading. “If the council did a food safety check on a shop or restaurant and found food waste in their freezer they would shut the place down.” But Brenda Fox, whose husband is a binman, said: “We are a family of five and we have no issue with our bins overflowing ... if you recycle correctly. “Enjoyed having him at home for Christmas and why shouldn't binmen be off? “Most Derby people wouldn't last a morning doing what they do in all weathers - stop moaning.”

A council is facing ridicule after advising residents to put their rubbish in the freezer to stop it smelling after it cancelled collections over Christmas and New Year.

Derby City Council issued a list of Christmas waste and recycling tips to get them through a 10-day period without any refuse rounds which included a call for people to bag up food waste and store it in the freezer until the next collection.

The advice, displayed on a web page interspersed with animated snow, also recommends encouraging children to use old baked beans tins as a craft project, despite the sharp edges.

It also directs Derby residents to a further list of craft tips to cut waste including how to make a Thanksgiving Turkey napkin holder and a Pilgrim Fathers hat made from a bucket and a brown paper bag.