Odes to hope (and techno): poems to get you going again

Josephine Baker hits Brixton Patience Agbabi makes language swing as she imagines an encounter with the 1920s singer, dancer and political activist Josephine Baker in Brixton, London. It’s a double monologue shaped like a palindrome, or mirror-poem, in which the second stanza uses the same lines as the first, but in reverse. As the two (sexually liberated women) enjoy a pick-up that’s also a mutual pick-me-up, you might not notice the formal virtuosity, but you’ll definitely feel the joy. She picked me up like a slow-burning fuse. I was down that girls’ club used to run in Brixton, on acid for fuel. Lipstick lesbians, techno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audis. She samples my heartbeat and mixes it with vodka on the rocks. I’m her light-skinned, negative, twenty-something, short black wavy-bobbed diva. She purrs , I say . She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk. So sleek! A string of pearls, her flapper dress studded with low-cut diamonds through my skin, straight to my heart. Twenties chic! She works me up and down. I worship the way she looks. The way she looks me up and down. I worship twenties chic. She works through my skin, straight to my heart studded with low-cut diamonds. A string of pearls her flapper dress. Yes! She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk so sleek she purrs, la garçonne! I say. Twenty-something, short, Black, wavy-bobbed diva: Vodka on the rocks, I’m her light-skinned negative. She samples my heartbeat and mixes it with techno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audis on acid for fuel. , that girls’ club used to run in Brixton like a slow-burning fuse. I was down. She picked me up. 2 Life, please! Mind and body are old sparring partners, and their apparent argument gets a sharp new twist in this cleverly titled, deftly rhymed parable by Anne Stevenson. Both are tempted by “the naked abyss”. To turn away from death towards life is one of the great acts of courage. Indecision causes vertigo. If only we could ask our bodies to choose, there’d be no dilemma – every cell is hard-wired to shout: “Life, please!” Mind led body to the edge of the precipice. They stared in desire at the naked abyss. If you love me, said mind, take that step into silence. If you love me, said body, turn and exist. 3 A miniature sun in every cup Perhaps suspicious of vulgar self-indulgence, the lyric muse tends to ignore the sense of taste. But this poem by Tomas Tranströmer, the Swedish Nobel prize-winner , defies the etiquette. Its grammar-dodging couplets invite us to sit with the poet in a cheerful, outdoor cafe on a spring morning. That “daylight dot of beneficent black” is like a miniature sun in every cup. And the coffee is not only delicious, but a spur to activity and inspiration. Sing caffeine Muse! The black coffee they serve outdoors among tables and chairs gaudy as insects. Precious distillations filled with the same strength as Yes and No. It’s carried out from the gloomy kitchen and looks into the sun without blinking. In the daylight a dot of beneficent black that quickly flows into a pale customer. It’s like the drops of black profoundness sometimes gathered up by the soul, giving a salutary push: Go! Inspiration to open your eyes. Feathered favourite Emily Dickinson was a super-keen observer of nature and her poems are packed with metaphor and allusion. Although the bird in this poem is generic, casually evoked as “the thing with feathers”, it somehow achieves a real presence. The small bird of Hope asks nothing, survives extremity and never ceases to sing “the tune without the words”. Paradoxically, this must be one of the most often-memorised poems ever written. “Hope” is the thing with feathers -- That perches in the soul -- And sings the tune without the words -- And never stops -- at all -- And sweetest -- in the Gale -- is heard -- And sore must be the storm -- That could abash the little Bird That kept so many warm -- I’ve heard it in the chillest land -- And on the strangest Sea -- Yet -- never -- in Extremity, It asked a crumb -- of me. 5 The washing sulks in the corner Between the lines, Kim Moore may be writing about brawling lovers, but she exuberantly imagines their row as civil war between the objects in a house. It’s what is often described as “a domestic”. Even the doors go off in a huff, and the bed only just survives collapse. Enjoy the catharsis! And the vacuum cleaner flew down the stairs like a song and the hiking boots launched themselves along the landing. And one half of the house hated the other half and the blinds wound themselves around each other. And the doors flung themselves into the street and flounced away and the washing gathered in corners and sulked. And the bed collapsed and was held up by books and the walls developed scars and it was a glorious, glorious year. 6 That old seedy hotel sex magic James Fenton’s speaker claims to have had enough of love. But as the old, seedy-hotel sex-magic asserts itself, his refrain gradually becomes one of delighted celebration. “Am I embarrassing you? I’m in Paris with you” gets my award for Best Rhyming Couplet in Contemporary English Poetry . Don’t talk to me of love. I’ve had an earful And I get tearful when I’ve had a drink or two. I’m one of your talking wounded. I’m a hostage. I’m maroonded. But I’m in Paris with you. Yes I’m angry at the way I’ve been bamboozled And resentful at the mess I’ve been through. I admit I’m on the rebound And I don’t care where are bound. I’m in Paris with you. Do you mind if we do not go to the Louvre, If we say sod off to sodding Notre Dame, If we skip the Champs Elysées And remain here in this sleazy Old hotel room Doing this and that To what and whom, Learning who you are, Learning what I am. Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris, The little bit of Paris in our view. There’s the crack across the ceiling And the hotel walls are peeling And I’m in Paris with you. Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris. I’m in Paris with the slightest thing you do. I’m in Paris with your eyes, your mouth, I’m in Paris with … all points south. Am I embarrassing you? I’m in Paris with you. Dance of the newborn baby Kate Miller’s poem charmingly captures all the dance moves of the newborn baby, whose native skills include the ability to lift its feet in the stepping reflex, “hopskip and bowing”. The image of the “separate knot” suggests both the umbilical cord and the casual kit of belongings tied together by an adventurous young traveller setting out. exist outside the royal room of blood you occupied and – without being shown – can close a fist or yawn. Practised, you look already. Hopskip and bowing, treading measure in a dance. You only took to unfamiliar air with your first taste of dust yesterday as evening fell. All the falling, all the flow around you, hair and water, will become familiar: mother, father: skin-to-skin. You’ve swum the sea of welcome, been lifted on the swell, slipped waxy through the crowd of hands. Your own breath sounded the all-clear, all’s well, when you sang out a first exclamatory note about the cord that tied you being cut, the tying-off, your separate knot. 8 Queen of my own universe If you’ve never won a race (or perhaps never even run a race) and worry you might have missed something special, sit back and enjoy Tracey Herd’s winning monologue. While Tomas Tranströmer discerned the sun in a cup of rich espresso, Herd finds it in the athlete’s gold medal, “like a tiny sun catching the last of the light”. The runner’s sensations are heightened and small details as deeply etched as the moment of victory on the speaker’s memory. is not the race itself but the evening which disappeared in a tangle of diving sunlight and nerves as I hugged myself, chilled, and waited for the starter, bent forward, the tang of mown grass sprayed like water and the white lines freshly painted on the spongy red track, breasting the tape, alone and splendid, queen of my own universe, then the medal like a tiny sun catching the last of the light, and feeling as if my heart would burst. 9 To bud and leaf again With this poem by Gillian Clarke we’re in the depths of the winter solstice. All the “golden ones” have come to dust, and greater threats than winter may be brewing “while the world talks,/ and the ice melts, / and the seas rise”. But the winter trees are preparing to bud and leaf again, challenging the irony of the last line’s “Promises. Promises.” The flown, the fallen, the golden ones, the deciduous dead, all gone to ground, to dust, to sand, borne on the shoulders of the wind. Listen! They are whispering now while the world talks, and the ice melts, and the seas rise. Look at the trees! Every leaf-scar is a bud expecting a future. The earth speaks in parables. The burning bush. The rainbow. Promises. Promises. 10 Every day is Saturday Yorkshire poet Maurice Rutherford was born in 1922, the same year as Philip Larkin . Here, the writer-narrator pauses to savour some everyday gifts of wonder and pleasure. A linnet on the lawn, a ship outward-bound, and memories of classroom horticulture all remind the poet – and us – that “a place where/ every day is Saturday, and Saturday is Christmas” can be reached through the power of imagination. Outside my window, a linnet on the laburnum shows poetry to the other birds, preens, stutters its wings and corrugates away across the lawn, and the nest of words I am waiting to hatch goes cold. Yesterday, as from the office window I watched a vessel leave the lockpits, outward-bound for Genoa, slipping the tugs from the task in hand, my feet were treading Italian ground before the Humber had healed in her wake. I knew, once, a tall school window high above the tiers of desks, where, in carbolic air, peas imprisoned in a jar strove for the sky and begged me join in their climb to a place where every day is Saturday and Saturday is Christmas. More uplifting culture for 2017 Topics  Poetry

1 Josephine Baker hits Brixton

Patience Agbabi makes language swing as she imagines an encounter with the 1920s singer, dancer and political activist Josephine Baker in Brixton, London. It’s a double monologue shaped like a palindrome, or mirror-poem, in which the second stanza uses the same lines as the first, but in reverse. As the two garçonnes (sexually liberated women) enjoy a pick-up that’s also a mutual pick-me-up, you might not notice the formal virtuosity, but you’ll definitely feel the joy.

Josephine Baker Finds Herself

She picked me up

like a slow-burning fuse. I was down

that girls’ club used to run in Brixton,

on acid for fuel. Lipstick lesbians,

techno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audis.

She samples my heartbeat and mixes it with

vodka on the rocks. I’m her light-skinned, negative,

twenty-something, short black wavy-bobbed diva.

She purrs La Garçonne, fancy a drink? I say

Yes. She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk. So sleek!

A string of pearls, her flapper dress

studded with low-cut diamonds

through my skin, straight to my heart.

Twenties chic! She works

me up and down. I worship

the way she looks.

The way she looks

me up and down. I worship

twenties chic. She works

through my skin, straight to my heart

studded with low-cut diamonds.

A string of pearls her flapper dress.

Yes! She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk so sleek

she purrs, la garçonne! Fancy a drink? I say.

Twenty-something, short, Black, wavy-bobbed diva:

Vodka on the rocks, I’m her light-skinned negative.

She samples my heartbeat and mixes it with

techno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audis

on acid for fuel. Lipstick Lesbians,

that girls’ club used to run in Brixton

like a slow-burning fuse. I was down.

She picked me up.

From Bloodshot Monochrome, Patience Agbabi (Canongate, 2008). Her latest collection is Telling Tales, a lively re-mix of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales.

2 Life, please!

Mind and body are old sparring partners, and their apparent argument gets a sharp new twist in this cleverly titled, deftly rhymed parable by Anne Stevenson. Both are tempted by “the naked abyss”. To turn away from death towards life is one of the great acts of courage. Indecision causes vertigo. If only we could ask our bodies to choose, there’d be no dilemma – every cell is hard-wired to shout: “Life, please!”

Vertigo

Mind led body

to the edge of the precipice.

They stared in desire

at the naked abyss.

If you love me, said mind,

take that step into silence.

If you love me, said body,

turn and exist.

From Poems 1955-2005, Anne Stevenson (Bloodaxe, 2004). Her most recent collection is Astonishment.

3 A miniature sun in every cup

Perhaps suspicious of vulgar self-indulgence, the lyric muse tends to ignore the sense of taste. But this poem by Tomas Tranströmer, the Swedish Nobel prize-winner, defies the etiquette. Its grammar-dodging couplets invite us to sit with the poet in a cheerful, outdoor cafe on a spring morning. That “daylight dot of beneficent black” is like a miniature sun in every cup. And the coffee is not only delicious, but a spur to activity and inspiration. Sing caffeine Muse!

Espresso

The black coffee they serve outdoors

among tables and chairs gaudy as insects.

Precious distillations

filled with the same strength as Yes and No.

It’s carried out from the gloomy kitchen

and looks into the sun without blinking.

In the daylight a dot of beneficent black

that quickly flows into a pale customer.

It’s like the drops of black profoundness

sometimes gathered up by the soul,

giving a salutary push: Go!

Inspiration to open your eyes.

From New Collected Poems, Tomas Tranströmer (Bloodaxe, 2011). Robin Fulton, Tranströmer’s translator, publishes his own poems as Robin Fulton MacPherson. His A Northern Habitat: Collected Poems 1960-2010 is published by Marick Press, Michigan.

4 Feathered favourite

Emily Dickinson was a super-keen observer of nature and her poems are packed with metaphor and allusion. Although the bird in this poem is generic, casually evoked as “the thing with feathers”, it somehow achieves a real presence. The small bird of Hope asks nothing, survives extremity and never ceases to sing “the tune without the words”. Paradoxically, this must be one of the most often-memorised poems ever written.



“Hope” is the thing with feathers

“Hope” is the thing with feathers --

That perches in the soul --

And sings the tune without the words --

And never stops -- at all --

And sweetest -- in the Gale -- is heard --

And sore must be the storm --

That could abash the little Bird

That kept so many warm --

I’ve heard it in the chillest land --

And on the strangest Sea --

Yet -- never -- in Extremity,

It asked a crumb -- of me.

From The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson (various editions available).

5 The washing sulks in the corner

Between the lines, Kim Moore may be writing about brawling lovers, but she exuberantly imagines their row as civil war between the objects in a house. It’s what is often described as “a domestic”. Even the doors go off in a huff, and the bed only just survives collapse. Enjoy the catharsis!

In Praise of Arguing

And the vacuum cleaner flew

down the stairs like a song

and the hiking boots

launched themselves

along the landing.

And one half of the house

hated the other half

and the blinds

wound themselves around

each other.

And the doors flung

themselves into the street

and flounced away

and the washing gathered

in corners and sulked.

And the bed collapsed

and was held up by books

and the walls developed

scars and it was a glorious,

glorious year.

From The Art of Falling, Kim Moore (Seren, 2015). The poet is running a residential course at Abbot Hall, Grange over Sands, Cumbria, 10-14 April (01539 532896).

6 That old seedy hotel sex magic

James Fenton’s speaker claims to have had enough of love. But as the old, seedy-hotel sex-magic asserts itself, his refrain gradually becomes one of delighted celebration. “Am I embarrassing you? I’m in Paris with you” gets my award for Best Rhyming Couplet in Contemporary English Poetry.

In Paris with You

Don’t talk to me of love. I’ve had an earful

And I get tearful when I’ve had a drink or two.

I’m one of your talking wounded.

I’m a hostage. I’m maroonded.

But I’m in Paris with you.

Yes I’m angry at the way I’ve been bamboozled

And resentful at the mess I’ve been through.

I admit I’m on the rebound

And I don’t care where are we bound.

I’m in Paris with you.

Do you mind if we do not go to the Louvre,

If we say sod off to sodding Notre Dame,

If we skip the Champs Elysées

And remain here in this sleazy

Old hotel room

Doing this and that

To what and whom,

Learning who you are,

Learning what I am.

Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris,

The little bit of Paris in our view.

There’s the crack across the ceiling

And the hotel walls are peeling

And I’m in Paris with you.

Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris.

I’m in Paris with the slightest thing you do.

I’m in Paris with your eyes, your mouth,

I’m in Paris with … all points south.

Am I embarrassing you?

I’m in Paris with you.

From Yellow Tulips (Faber, 2012). James Fenton’s Don Quixote: A Play with Songs adapted from the Novel by Miguel de Cervantes is also published by Faber.

7 Dance of the newborn baby

Kate Miller’s poem charmingly captures all the dance moves of the newborn baby, whose native skills include the ability to lift its feet in the stepping reflex, “hopskip and bowing”. The image of the “separate knot” suggests both the umbilical cord and the casual kit of belongings tied together by an adventurous young traveller setting out.

And now you

exist

outside the royal room of blood you occupied

and – without being shown –

can close a fist or yawn.

Practised, you look

already. Hopskip and bowing,

treading measure in a dance.

You only took to unfamiliar air

with your first taste of dust

yesterday as evening fell. All the falling,

all the flow around you,

hair and water, will become familiar:

mother, father: skin-to-skin.

You’ve swum the sea of welcome,

been lifted on the swell,

slipped waxy through the crowd of hands.

Your own breath sounded

the all-clear,

all’s well,

when you sang out a first

exclamatory note

about the cord that tied you

being cut,

the tying-off, your separate knot.

From The Observances, Kate Miller’s debut collection (Carcanet, 2015).

8 Queen of my own universe

If you’ve never won a race (or perhaps never even run a race) and worry you might have missed something special, sit back and enjoy Tracey Herd’s winning monologue. While Tomas Tranströmer discerned the sun in a cup of rich espresso, Herd finds it in the athlete’s gold medal, “like a tiny sun catching the last of the light”. The runner’s sensations are heightened and small details as deeply etched as the moment of victory on the speaker’s memory.

What I Remember

is not the race itself but the evening

which disappeared in a tangle of diving

sunlight and nerves as I hugged myself,

chilled, and waited for the starter, bent

forward, the tang of mown grass

sprayed like water and the white lines

freshly painted on the spongy red track,

breasting the tape, alone and splendid,

queen of my own universe, then the medal

like a tiny sun catching the last of the light,

and feeling as if my heart would burst.

From Not in This World, Tracey Herd (Bloodaxe, 2015).

9 To bud and leaf again

With this poem by Gillian Clarke we’re in the depths of the winter solstice. All the “golden ones” have come to dust, and greater threats than winter may be brewing “while the world talks,/ and the ice melts, / and the seas rise”. But the winter trees are preparing to bud and leaf again, challenging the irony of the last line’s “Promises. Promises.”

The Year’s Midnight

The flown, the fallen,

the golden ones,

the deciduous dead, all gone

to ground, to dust, to sand,

borne on the shoulders of the wind.

Listen! They are whispering

now while the world talks,

and the ice melts,

and the seas rise.

Look at the trees!

Every leaf-scar is a bud

expecting a future.

The earth speaks in parables.

The burning bush. The rainbow.

Promises. Promises.

From Selected Poems (Picador, 2016). Gillian Clarke is a former National Poet of Wales.

10 Every day is Saturday

Yorkshire poet Maurice Rutherford was born in 1922, the same year as Philip Larkin. Here, the writer-narrator pauses to savour some everyday gifts of wonder and pleasure. A linnet on the lawn, a ship outward-bound, and memories of classroom horticulture all remind the poet – and us – that “a place where/ every day is Saturday, and Saturday is Christmas” can be reached through the power of imagination.

Poem on Saturday

Outside my window, a linnet on the laburnum

shows poetry to the other birds, preens,

stutters its wings and corrugates away

across the lawn, and the nest of words

I am waiting to hatch goes cold.

Yesterday, as from the office window I watched

a vessel leave the lockpits, outward-bound

for Genoa, slipping the tugs from the task in hand,

my feet were treading Italian ground

before the Humber had healed in her wake.

I knew, once, a tall school window high above

the tiers of desks, where, in carbolic air,

peas imprisoned in a jar strove for the sky

and begged me join in their climb to a place where

every day is Saturday and Saturday is Christmas.

From And Saturday is Christmas: New and Selected Poems (Shoestring Press, 2011). Maurice Rutherford’s latest publication is Marshalled Musings, “a father-daughter collaboration in prose poetry and paintings with Jeannie Clarke”. See mauricerutherford.com