Ahead Of Polls In 5 States, SC Says Politicians Can't Seek Votes In Name Of Caste Or Religion
Ahead Of Polls In 5 States, SC Says Politicians Can't Seek Votes In Name Of Caste Or Religion
Ahead Of Polls In 5 States, SC Says Politicians Can't Seek Votes In Name Of Caste Or Religion Politicians are barred from seeking votes in the name of religion, caste or creed, the Supreme Court ruled today in a landmark judgment, ahead of crucial assembly polls in five states. The court's bench said today by a 4:3 majority that elections are a secular exercise and that the relationship between people and whom they worship is an individual choice. Therefore, the state is forbidden to interfere in such an activity, the court said. A 7-judge constitution bench passed the judgement in the Hindutva case after hearing in detail arguments from various petitioners/respondents The court said that seeking votes in name of religion, caste and language is a corrupt practice and not permissible. The court gave a wider meaning to Section 123 of the Representation of People Act to stamp out the use of religion and community affiliation from elections. Chief Justice T S Thakur, justices M B Lokur, S A Bobde and L N Rao favoured rooting out religion from election, while Justices A K Goel, U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud were in a minority on the issue.

Politicians are barred from seeking votes in the name of religion, caste or creed, the Supreme Court ruled today in a landmark judgment, ahead of crucial assembly polls in five states.

The court's bench said today by a 4:3 majority that elections are a secular exercise and that the relationship between people and whom they worship is an individual choice. Therefore, the state is forbidden to interfere in such an activity, the court said.

AFP

A 7-judge constitution bench passed the judgement in the Hindutva case after hearing in detail arguments from various petitioners/respondents

The court said that seeking votes in name of religion, caste and language is a corrupt practice and not permissible. The court gave a wider meaning to Section 123 of the Representation of People Act to stamp out the use of religion and community affiliation from elections.

Chief Justice T S Thakur, justices M B Lokur, S A Bobde and L N Rao favoured rooting out religion from election, while Justices A K Goel, U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud were in a minority on the issue.

Originally published in Times of India