Turkey nightclub shooting victims pictured as ISIS claims responsibility
First pictures show bloody aftermath of Istanbul massacre


Turkish police have released two new pictures of the suspected Istanbul nightclub killer as they closed in on two locations in the hunt for the ISIS fanatic.

The images, which appear to be taken from CCTV footage, show Turkey's most wanted man wearing a black and blue bomber jacket and leaning on a counter.

They were released by investigators as shocking images emerged purportedly showing the bloody aftermath of the New Year's Eve massacre.

This afternoon, the towns of Yalova and Bursa were both understood to be targeted by police after members of the public claimed to have spotted the nightclub killer.

The first sighting took place in the port town of Yalova, where the suspect was allegedly seen disembarking from a passenger ferry after crossing about 40 miles across the Sea of Marmara.

He then was reportedly seen hitchhiking to Bursa, a distance of 45 miles.

Police are understood to now know the suspect's identity, nationality and associates but have not yet released this information to protect their investigation, Turkish media has claimed.

Scroll down for video

Shocking pictures have emerged purportedly showing the bloody aftermath of the Istanbul nightclub massacre

Harrowing images reveal the carnage that unfolded inside the club with victims slumped next to their chairs and their unfinished drinks still intact on the tables beside them. The gunman is pictured firing his weapon at the entrance to the venue

Turkish police have released CCTV images of the man they suspect of Saturday's massacre

The killer fired 120 rounds and used some four magazines while on his murderous rampage

It comes after anti-terror officers arrested eight people in connection with the attack.

Investigators continue to question the eight people – most of whom were from Kazakstan and Kyrgyzstan – trying desperately to establish some connection between them and the atrocity.

Police have also released the taxi driver who drove the terrorist to the Reina nightclub after several hours of questioning, leaving them with very few leads.

According to investigators, the suspect is thought to originate from Kyrgyzstan.

A spokeswoman from the country's foreign ministry, Aiymkan Kulukeyeva, told Turkish media that her officials are 'checking' the information and assisting police with their attempts to identify the suspect.

This comes as shocking pictures have emerged purportedly showing the bloody aftermath of the Istanbul nightclub massacre.

The bodies of revellers slaughtered by an ISIS gunman can be seen piled up on the floor of the exclusive venue as police examine the scene.

Harrowing images reveal the carnage that unfolded inside the club with victims slumped next to their chairs and their unfinished drinks still on the tables beside them.

The gunman fired off four magazines containing a total of 120 bullets around the club, as terrified guests flung themselves into the freezing waters of the Bosphorus in panic.

This morning it emerged that the 39 people killed included the daughter of a prominent Lebanese businessman, the chief of security at the Reina nightclub, and a bus driver who had unwittingly transported a group of partygoers to their deaths.

A female security guard, an Arab-Israeli student and a Lebanese banker were also among those murdered.

Details of the victims were released as an international manhunt continued for the attacker who arrived in a taxi before unleashing a hail of 120 bullets during a five-and-a-half minute rampage at the exclusive night spot.

One of the Istanbul attacker's victims was Rita Sami (pictured), 26, daughter of Ilyas Schami, a prominent Lebanese businessman. She was pictured on social media wearing flowers in her hair (right)

Lebanese banker Heykel Müsellim (pictured) was a victim of the attack. He was identified using a DNA sample from one of his relatives

Also named as a victim of the ISIS atrocity was 25-year-old Lebanese man Ilyas Vardini (pictured)

The gunman, believed to be captured by CCTV left and right, rained down 'a hail of bullets' on the New Year revellers and is still on the run

Club bouncer and mother-of-one Hatice Koc'un was among the 39 people who were gunned down in Istanbul. Turkish law requires a female guard be present to search women clubbers

This morning, ISIS claimed responsibility for the New Year's Eve atrocity which it said was carried out by a 'heroic soldier of the caliphate who attacked the most famous nightclub where Christians were celebrating their pagan feast.'

ISIS branded Turkey a 'servant of the cross' as its ranting online message said the atrocity was in 'revenge for God's religion and in response to the orders' of the terror group's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

The terror group claimed the extremist used both a machinegun and hand grenades during the attack.

Investigators said this morning that they had found the jacket discarded by the attacker as he fled the scene. It had 500 Turkish Lira (about £115) in the pocket, local media have reported.

Police believe that the suspect made his escape in a taxi, according to reports, which he hailed on the street after committing the massacre.

He escaped north into the Kurucesme district on the banks of the Bosphorus, officers now believe.

Grieving: Tearful relatives of Fatih Cakmak, a security guard and a victim of an attack by a gunman at Reina nightclub, break down during his funeral in Istanbul

Mourners huddled together at the funeral of Busra Kose, another victim of the nightclub attack

The mother of Fatih Cakmak, a security guard killed in the attack, breaks down in tears at her son's funeral

Just one of the 39 victims remained unidentified this morning, after police worked through the night with families of the deceased.

Investigators are desperately trying to piece together evidence, in the hope of shedding light on the identity of the attacker who remains the subject of a frenzied manhunt.

Today Turkish media reported that the gunman took a cab to the venue, but got out due to traffic and walked the last four minutes to the scene.

In just over five minutes, the killer used six magazines, totalling 180 bullets, to massacre his unarmed victims, according to Turkish media which also reported, that police believe the suspect may be from the Central Asian states of Kyrgyzstan or Uzbekistan.

A local security specialist, Abdullah Agar, also said that CCTV footage of the attacker appeared to suggest that he had an old injury to his foot.

Clamp down: Turkish police were seen carrying out spot checks as the search for the gunman continued

A Turkish police officer searches a person near the scene a day after an attack at a popular nightclub in Istanbul

Officers search a car during a spot check on traffic as the search continued this morning

Turkish anti riot police officers stand guard in front of the Reina night club this morning

A woman leaves carnations at a security barricade near the scene, a day after the attack

Footage filmed at the entrance of the nightclub in Istanbul's Ortaköy district, shows the man shooting indiscriminately as he rained down 'a hail of bullets' on the clubbers.

Grainy CCTV images released by Turkish police shows the suspect who fled the club after the massacre.

An earlier report on the shooting included a photograph, which was understood to have been issued by Turkish police, of a man who the police were said to be looking for. In fact the man in the photograph had nothing to do with the shooting, is not a suspect and is not being sought by police.

Among the first to be killed were the club's head of security, Fatih Cakmak, 35, who was shot dead on the steps of the venue.

He had already had a brush with death last month, when he was working at Istanbul's Vodafone Arena as it was hit by a major bomb attack.

Ayhan Arik, who drove the bus that reportedly carried some of the victims to the club, was also killed in front of the entrance.

Sparks are seen flying down the street as the Istanbul nightclub shooter walks towards the Reina nightclub

People standing outside the club can be seen diving for cover as the gunman approaches, firing indiscriminately

After shooting a victim to the left of the screen, the gunman then runs into the nightclub

Photos from inside Istanbul's packed Reina club show partygoers celebrating moments before the gunman stormed the venue with an AK-47

He had two sons, and has already been laid to rest at a ceremony attended by his friends and family, at which his wife was reportedly so distressed that she was unable to stand.

Female security guard Hatice Karcilar also lost her life in the atrocity. The mother of a three-year-old child had also reportedly survived last month's bombing attack, and had posted pictures of herself on social media kissing the Turkish flag. She will be buried later today.

As the killer made his way inside the club, he fired indiscriminately as he reportedly screamed 'Allahu Akhbar', gunning down Rita Sami, 26, daughter of Ilyas Schami, a prominent Lebanese businessman. She was pictured on social media wearing flowers in her hair.

Also killed was police officer Burak Yildiz, 21, from Mersin in southern Turkey, who graduated from the police academy 18 months ago and had recently suffered the loss of his father.

Shortly before his death, he had posted on Facebook in sympathy for his young colleagues killed in previous terror attacks, saying, 'your bravery is not matched by your age', and 'your loss leaves a fire in our hearts', according to Turkish media.

Also gunned down was police officer Burak Yildiz, who had been guarding the front of the upmarket riverside club

Club worker Kenan Kutluk (right) has been named as a victim. His Facebook page shows him posing next to footballer Diego Costa

Fatih Çakmak, a policeman who was on duty at the nightclub during the New Year celebrations, was also killed

Çakmak had previously escaped another attack while working at the match between Beşiktaş and Bursaspor last month when a car bomb exploded

Police have released several images of a suspect, they do not have yet have a name. CCTV, believed to be from inside the club, shows the gunman wearing hat

Moments before the attack clubbers were pictured enjoying the celebrations in the exclusive venue

The news was broken to the family by the chief of Mersin police, Mehmet Sahne, Turkish media reported, and his mother broke down when she received the news, having to be supported by health workers. A Turkish flag was put up in front of his house.

Israeli Arab student Leanne Nasser, 19, who was on holiday in Turkey with three of her friends for the New Year, also lost her life in the shooting. One of her friends was injured while the other two were traumatised but physically unharmed, Israeli officials told MailOnline.

'Their friends told them not to come because they thought it was too dangerous,' said Shira Ben Zion, Israel's deputy consul in Istanbul. The survivors returned to Israel last night.

Also killed were waiter Kenan Kutluk, who was married with two children, and Lebanese banker Heykel Müsellim, who was identified using a DNA sample from one of his relatives. His body will be released in the coming days.

Crying relatives gather around the coffin of one of the victims of the Turkish nightclub massacre ahead of the funeral

A young boy breaks down and rests his head on top of the coffin of one of the victims

A man kisses the coffin of Ayhan Arik, one of the 39 people killed in the attack on New Year's Eve

People in the city began burying the dead just 13 hours after the attack in line with Muslim tradition

Mustafa Sezgin Seymen was shot dead in front of his fiancé, Turkish media reported.

Financial adviser Mustafa Kaya was also among the dead, and his body was taken to his hometown of Kastamonu.

Also named were security guard Yunus Görmek, Lebanese Ilyas Vardini, 25, Mesut Gürbüz, 28, a Turkish tourism representative working in Germany, and Iraqi university student Jalal Abbas.

Bodies of the 13 Turkish victims have been released to their families for burial after the conclusion of autopsy and identification procedures.

Meanwhile, relatives and Bollywood friends have converged at the Mumbai home of Abis Rizvi, one of the two Indian victims.

They offered condolences to the bereaved family on Monday even as Rizvi's father left for Istanbul to bring back his son's body. The body is expected to reach Mumbai on Wednesday, according to Bollywood actor and friend Raza Murad.

Rizvi, a 49-year-old builder, wrote, produced and directed a Bollywood movie 'Roar: The Tigers of Sunderbans,' in 2014 aimed at spreading awareness about tigers.

Turkish jets and tanks hammered 100 ISIS targets in Syria just hours after the terror group's gunman killed 39 New Year's Eve revellers in an Istanbul nightclub

Dramatic aerial footage shows warplanes using rockets to obliterate ISIS hideouts near the towns of al-Bab, Tadif and Bzagah in the north of the war-torn country, killing 22 extremists and destroying buildings

The video emerged as Turkish authorities continued their manhunt for the nightclub killer who arrived in a taxi before slaughtering partygoers

The other Indian victim of the Istanbul attack that killed 39 people was Khushi Shah, a fashion designer from Vadodara, a city in the western Indian state of Gujarat.

The dead also included 25 foreign nationals from Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Tunisia, India, Morocco, Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Canada, Israel, Syria and Russia.

Efforts are being made to identify the final body.

Meanwhile, Turkey's state-run news agency says more than 100 ISIS targets in Syria have been hit by Turkey and Russia in separate operations, a day after a deadly attack at a popular Istanbul nightclub during New Year's celebrations claimed by the group.

Citing the Turkish Chief of General Staff's office, Anadolu Agency said Turkish jets struck eight IS group targets while tanks and artillery fired upon 103 targets near Al Bab, killing 22 extremists while destroying many structures.

Anadolu added that Russian jets also attacked ISIS targets in Dayr Kak, five miles to the southwest of Al Bab.

Turkey sent troops into neighboring northern Syria in August to clear a border area of ISIS militants and curb territorial advances by Syrian Kurdish forces.

Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim (pictured) revealed the gunman left his weapon inside the venue and escaped by 'taking advantage of the chaos' that ensued

This morning armed police with shields formed a ring of steel around the nightclub in Istanbul