Vote: NFL playoff predictions?
Vote: NFL playoff predictions?
Vote: NFL playoff predictions? Vote: What was the best championship finish of the past year? Vote: Who is the greatest NFL player of all time? Vote: Five burning questions from a jaw-dropping Super Bowl Rank 'em: Who are the top 10 teams in the country right now? Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Vote: Dak Prescott vs. Ezekiel Elliott -- Who should win Rookie of the Year? Vote: Who was the biggest snub in this year's Pro Football Hall of Fame? Vote: Which finalists should be elected into the Pro Football Hall of Fame? Vote: 10 key questions for Super Bowl LI Vote: Which Notre Dame recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Oregon recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Ohio State recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Michigan recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? Vote: Which Alabama recruit will have biggest impact in 2017? #NBArank Rising Stars: Vote now! Vote: Will Andrew Wiggins ever make the Cavaliers regret trading him? Rank 'em: Who's the best prospect in the upcoming NBA draft? Vote: Should LeBron have ripped Charles Barkley? Vote: Cardinals' punishment too harsh, too lenient or just right? Rank 'em: Who's the best quarterback of all time? Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The regular season is over. The wild-card matchups are set. So, #PulseOfTheNation has a few questions for you: The Dolphins and Steelers faced off in Florida in October, with Miami winning 30-15. The Raiders beat the Texans 27-20 at home in November, but that was with a healthy Derek Carr. The Packers beat the Giants 23-16 in Green Bay, Wisconsin, in October. The Lions and the Seahawks did not play each other during the regular season. No matter what happens, we will have new conference champions; the Super Bowl contestants from last season (champion Denver Broncos and runner-up Carolina Panthers) both missed the playoffs. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The regular season is over. The wild-card matchups are set.

So, #PulseOfTheNation has a few questions for you:

The Dolphins and Steelers faced off in Florida in October, with Miami winning 30-15. The Raiders beat the Texans 27-20 at home in November, but that was with a healthy Derek Carr. The Packers beat the Giants 23-16 in Green Bay, Wisconsin, in October. The Lions and the Seahawks did not play each other during the regular season.

No matter what happens, we will have new conference champions; the Super Bowl contestants from last season (champion Denver Broncos and runner-up Carolina Panthers) both missed the playoffs.