Lane Kiffin will not coach offense for Alabama Crimson Tide in title game
Kiffin leaving Alabama before championship game
Kiffin leaving Alabama before championship game Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State No. 28 Woodbey commits to Ohio State for '18 Baylor fires asst. after arrest in prostitution sting Lawyer: Minnesota players discussing lawsuit OTL: NCAA inquiry into Baylor scandal ongoing Colorado abuse accuser: MacIntyre knew earlier Rudy's Notre Dame helmet, jersey sell for $241K Why schools push so hard for recruits to enroll early Take a tour of Clemson's ridiculously cool new facility What happens when Jim Harbaugh tweets out your phone number? The mystery of the 'Matty Ice' nickname rages on NLRB: Football players at private FBS schools are employees Kirby Smart delivers hope to Georgia, but now he must win Why LSU, Georgia should temper signing day excitement Welcome to the circus that will be 2018 Sunshine State recruiting Post-signing day Way-Too-Early 2017 Top 25 Early bird Duke opens spring, with focus on getting back to a bowl NCAA agrees to $209M scholarships settlement Alabama's record-setting 2017 class has lofty standards to reach 1 Related National signing day's winners and losers Despite whiffing on Marvin Wilson, LSU hits home run with first class under Ed Orgeron Florida State rallies to become five-star destination Top-ranked DT Wilson bolsters Seminoles' class Inside Tom Herman's first national signing day at Texas Ohio State QB signee Tate Martell isn't afraid of competition Urban Meyer had last laugh in prank war with recruit Baron Browning Signing day: Alabama back on top; USC shines Which recruiting classes aced signing day? USC carries Rose Bowl momentum into strong signing day showing Michigan shifts 'Signing of the Stars' focus back to where it should be Wisconsin DC Jim Leonhard's meteoric coaching rise highlights his special qualities Badgers get in New York state of mind with QB Jack Coan Tex-odus: Why more recruits are fleeing the Lone Star State Kirk Herbstreit, Lee Corso and David Pollack weigh in on Alabama's decision to not have the outgoing Lane Kiffin serve as the team's offensive coordinator for the national championship game. (1:46) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Lane Kiffin will not be coaching the Alabama offense when the Crimson Tide take on Clemson in the College Football Playoff National Championship on Jan. 9. Kiffin has already accepted the head-coaching job at Florida Atlantic University , but he was expected to continue at Alabama through the end of the season. Alabama coach Nick Saban said Steve Sarkisian, who had already been named Kiffin's successor, will be in charge of Alabama's game plan for the championship game. "We made the decision because it was in the best interest of our players, our program and for Lane for him to assume his duties at Florida Atlantic," Saban told ESPN on Monday. "We mutually agreed that this was best for both programs." Kiffin had been late to several events in the past week leading up to Alabama's 24-7 CFP semifinal win against Washington in the Peach Bowl -- including meetings and media day -- leading some Alabama staff members to say they "were done with him," sources told ESPN's Brett McMurphy. On Thursday, Kiffin appeared 15 minutes late to the team's Peach Bowl media day and was the last Alabama coach to leave the event. By the time he got out of the Georgia Dome locker room to where the buses were supposed to be, they were already headed back to the team hotel in downtown Atlanta. Kiffin said he expects an easy transition for Sarkisian, noting how Sarkisian's personality should mesh better with Saban's than his did. "I'm not saying it's bad with him at all," Kiffin said. "I would say Sark manages people better than I do." "This wasn't an easy decision and we appreciate the way Lane handled this in terms of doing what is best for our team," Saban said in a statement. "At the end of the day, both of us wanted to put our players in the best position to be successful. Obviously, we are in a unique situation here where we have our next offensive coordinator already on staff. We have full confidence that Sark will step in right away and make this a smooth transition." Later Monday, an Alabama source told ESPN's Brett McMurphy "many" when asked what was the last straw between Kiffin and Saban. The move came after an uneven offensive performance in Saturday's win over Washington in which quarterback Jalen Hurts passed for a season-low 57 yards. Saban could be seen on the sideline yelling at Kiffin after a three-and-out on the opening series, the latest incident in what sometimes was a contentious relationship between the coaches. Kiffin, who credits Saban for showing him how to handle an entire program as a head coach, joked last week that he couldn't recall any fond memories at Alabama, only the so-called "ass-chewings" Saban gave him from time to time. Several Alabama staff members were "dumbfounded" about those Kiffin comments, sources told McMurphy, and also Kiffin's comments that "fun is not a word we use around here." In past weeks, Alabama sources told ESPN that Kiffin would not have been allowed to return after this season. However, Kiffin said at his FAU introductory news conference and at the Peach Bowl events that those reports were not true. "I don't know where that came from: that the Kiffin-Saban marriage had run its course," Kiffin said last week. Kiffin reiterated in the statement that this is the best move for everyone. "After going through these last couple of weeks, trying to serve the best interests of two universities as an offensive coordinator and a head coach, it became apparent that both programs would be better served by me giving all my time and efforts to being the head coach at FAU," Kiffin said. "After meeting with Coach Saban during preparations last night and this morning, we mutually decided that it was in everyone's best interests for the players and the program for Coach Sarkisian to take over all responsibilities as offensive coordinator for the championship game. "This was a very difficult decision, but it's a decision made in the best interests of the program. I look forward to helping Alabama win another championship, and would like to thank Coach Saban, the staff and all the players and fans for the past three years at UA for an unforgettable time and championship run. Roll Tide!" Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Kirk Herbstreit, Lee Corso and David Pollack weigh in on Alabama's decision to not have the outgoing Lane Kiffin serve as the team's offensive coordinator for the national championship game. (1:46)

Lane Kiffin will not be coaching the Alabama offense when the Crimson Tide take on Clemson in the College Football Playoff National Championship on Jan. 9.

Kiffin has already accepted the head-coaching job at Florida Atlantic University, but he was expected to continue at Alabama through the end of the season. Alabama coach Nick Saban said Steve Sarkisian, who had already been named Kiffin's successor, will be in charge of Alabama's game plan for the championship game.

"We made the decision because it was in the best interest of our players, our program and for Lane for him to assume his duties at Florida Atlantic," Saban told ESPN on Monday. "We mutually agreed that this was best for both programs."

Editor's Picks The transition from Lane Kiffin to Steve Sarkisian just got more interesting Alabama planned an offseason switch to Steve Sarkisian running the offense, but suddenly it is under his direction a week away from the title game.

Kiffin's abrupt exit from Alabama is surprising ... sort of What, you were expecting Lane Kiffin's final days at Alabama to be controversy-free? Kiffin and Nick Saban have always been football's odd couple, but recent events put an end to the marriage. 1 Related

Kiffin had been late to several events in the past week leading up to Alabama's 24-7 CFP semifinal win against Washington in the Peach Bowl -- including meetings and media day -- leading some Alabama staff members to say they "were done with him," sources told ESPN's Brett McMurphy.

On Thursday, Kiffin appeared 15 minutes late to the team's Peach Bowl media day and was the last Alabama coach to leave the event. By the time he got out of the Georgia Dome locker room to where the buses were supposed to be, they were already headed back to the team hotel in downtown Atlanta.

Kiffin said he expects an easy transition for Sarkisian, noting how Sarkisian's personality should mesh better with Saban's than his did.

"I'm not saying it's bad with him at all," Kiffin said. "I would say Sark manages people better than I do."

"This wasn't an easy decision and we appreciate the way Lane handled this in terms of doing what is best for our team," Saban said in a statement. "At the end of the day, both of us wanted to put our players in the best position to be successful. Obviously, we are in a unique situation here where we have our next offensive coordinator already on staff. We have full confidence that Sark will step in right away and make this a smooth transition."

Lane Kiffin will not be coaching the Alabama offense in the Jan. 9 title game. Harry How/Getty Images

Later Monday, an Alabama source told ESPN's Brett McMurphy "many" when asked what was the last straw between Kiffin and Saban.

The move came after an uneven offensive performance in Saturday's win over Washington in which quarterback Jalen Hurts passed for a season-low 57 yards. Saban could be seen on the sideline yelling at Kiffin after a three-and-out on the opening series, the latest incident in what sometimes was a contentious relationship between the coaches.

Kiffin, who credits Saban for showing him how to handle an entire program as a head coach, joked last week that he couldn't recall any fond memories at Alabama, only the so-called "ass-chewings" Saban gave him from time to time.

Several Alabama staff members were "dumbfounded" about those Kiffin comments, sources told McMurphy, and also Kiffin's comments that "fun is not a word we use around here."

In past weeks, Alabama sources told ESPN that Kiffin would not have been allowed to return after this season. However, Kiffin said at his FAU introductory news conference and at the Peach Bowl events that those reports were not true.

"I don't know where that came from: that the Kiffin-Saban marriage had run its course," Kiffin said last week.

Kiffin reiterated in the statement that this is the best move for everyone.

"After going through these last couple of weeks, trying to serve the best interests of two universities as an offensive coordinator and a head coach, it became apparent that both programs would be better served by me giving all my time and efforts to being the head coach at FAU," Kiffin said. "After meeting with Coach Saban during preparations last night and this morning, we mutually decided that it was in everyone's best interests for the players and the program for Coach Sarkisian to take over all responsibilities as offensive coordinator for the championship game.

"This was a very difficult decision, but it's a decision made in the best interests of the program. I look forward to helping Alabama win another championship, and would like to thank Coach Saban, the staff and all the players and fans for the past three years at UA for an unforgettable time and championship run. Roll Tide!"

ESPN's Alex Scarborough contributed to this report.