Karnataka Home Minister Offers No Apology On Bengaluru Incident, Says The City Is Safe
Karnataka Home Minister Offers No Apology On Bengaluru Incident, Says The City Is Safe
Karnataka Home Minister Offers No Apology On Bengaluru Incident, Says The City Is Safe The shocking incident where several women were allegedly molested in Bengaluru on New Year's eve inspired no apology from the state Home Minister, G Parameshwara, who said that the city was safe and that "such incidents do happen on New Year day and on Christmas". Such incidents do happen on #NewYear day and on #Christmas . We take a lot of precautions: G Parmeshwara,Karnataka Home Minister pic.twitter.com/RzHqHQLPgr The shameful incident took place on Bengaluru's famous MG road where thousands gathered to celebrate the last night of 2016. For the Home Minister, however, there were enough policemen to ensure the safety of women. "You should also understand the entire culture of celebration of the New Year's thing over the years. We need to regulate and try and organise, we will have to see," he said. Refuting reports that suggested that there were 10,000 cops on duty that day, the minister added, "You cannot have 10,000 policemen, there were 1,500 policemen, we had sensitized all the units of police force so that no untoward incident happens." In the same breath, he also added that the 25 CCTV cameras installed at the location will be examined by the authorities.

The shocking incident where several women were allegedly molested in Bengaluru on New Year's eve inspired no apology from the state Home Minister, G Parameshwara, who said that the city was safe and that "such incidents do happen on New Year day and on Christmas".

Such incidents do happen on #NewYear day and on #Christmas. We take a lot of precautions: G Parmeshwara,Karnataka Home Minister pic.twitter.com/RzHqHQLPgr — ANI (@ANI_news) January 2, 2017

The shameful incident took place on Bengaluru's famous MG road where thousands gathered to celebrate the last night of 2016. For the Home Minister, however, there were enough policemen to ensure the safety of women.

Bangalore Mirror

"You should also understand the entire culture of celebration of the New Year's thing over the years. We need to regulate and try and organise, we will have to see," he said. Refuting reports that suggested that there were 10,000 cops on duty that day, the minister added, "You cannot have 10,000 policemen, there were 1,500 policemen, we had sensitized all the units of police force so that no untoward incident happens."

facebook

In the same breath, he also added that the 25 CCTV cameras installed at the location will be examined by the authorities.