Tinder users frustrated as they discover potential dates have disappeared
Singles express frustration as Tinder deletes matches


Users expressed their frustration at losing contact with potential dates

in March 2016 and was quickly fixed

A new year usually comes with new years resolutions, like getting fitter, reading more, and for some people, falling in love.

However some singles are now joking that they'll never find their soulmate after an apparent glitch with dating app Tinder left them with no matches.

The issue first started being reported by Twitter users at around 9:30am AEDT, with many tweeting the company.

Oh no: Many singles started 2017 by finding out all their matches on dating app Tinder had disappeared

'I might cry': Many users took to Twitter to complain about the problem

'Tinder, why are you doing this to me? I had almost 600 matches, where are they?' one user called Connor Jordan tweeted.

'Tinder didn't do so well in 2017 and deleted my 500 matches #somuchwork #whyyy' a woman called Ellie Siefkes said.

Many of the users accompanied their tweets with screenshots of their Tinder app showing they had no matches anymore.

All gone: Some singles posted screenshots of their now-empty match list on the app

Other people were more dramatic in their reactions, claiming they will never find love.

'Pretty sure I was talking to the love of my life but the app crashed and now I have no matches. Thanks Tinder I'm gonna be alone 4ever,' one said.

Others found a way around the obstacle, proving love can conquer all, even a Tinder glitch.

'Tinder erased all my matches but a super cute boy super liked me so i found his insta and DM'ed him bc im that extra,' [sic] one young woman tweeted.

Not again: A similar problem occurred with the dating app last year, but was quickly fixed (stock image)

'Lost forever': Singles tweeted that they were having problems

Tinder experienced a similar glitch in March 2016, with thousands of users reporting their matches were gone. The issue was quickly fixed.