American Injured in Turkey Nightclub Calls Attack 'a Massive Tragedy'
American Injured in Turkey Nightclub Calls Attack 'a Massive Tragedy'
Shares               The American who was injured in the shooting rampage at an Istanbul nightclub told Turkish reporters today that he was part of a group of about nine people at the a New Year's Eve celebration at the club and that seven of them had been shot.   Jacob Raak, who spoke to reporters while on a gurney at an airport in Istanbul, also seemed to allude to the fact that Americans don't live with a daily concern about terror attacks in the same way as people in Turkey. "All I can say is it's a massive tragedy. This is very unfortunate," Raak told Turkish reporters. "I wake up in the United States, I eat breakfast. You guys wake up and have to think of this. It's so, so sad."   Raak, whose family had earlier identified him as a 35-year-old small business owner from Greenville, Delaware, according to ABC station WPVI in Philadelphia, went to the Reina nightclub while on vacation in Turkey. He was shot in the leg, his brother, Michael, told WPVI. The brother said the bullet may have struck Raak's cellphone, possibly preventing a more serious injury. Shares                  American Injured in Turkey Nightclub Calls Attack 'a Massive Tragedy'   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Amnesty: At Least 13,000 Hanged in Syrian Prison Since 2011   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   Teen Admits Killing Florida Woman in London Knife Rampage   Israel Passes Law Legalizing Thousands of Settlement Homes   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Kansas Woman Runs 1st Full Mile Since Leg Amputation   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism

The American who was injured in the shooting rampage at an Istanbul nightclub told Turkish reporters today that he was part of a group of about nine people at the a New Year's Eve celebration at the club and that seven of them had been shot.

Raak Family

Jacob Raak, who spoke to reporters while on a gurney at an airport in Istanbul, also seemed to allude to the fact that Americans don't live with a daily concern about terror attacks in the same way as people in Turkey.

"All I can say is it's a massive tragedy. This is very unfortunate," Raak told Turkish reporters. "I wake up in the United States, I eat breakfast. You guys wake up and have to think of this. It's so, so sad."

Raak, whose family had earlier identified him as a 35-year-old small business owner from Greenville, Delaware, according to ABC station WPVI in Philadelphia, went to the Reina nightclub while on vacation in Turkey.

He was shot in the leg, his brother, Michael, told WPVI. The brother said the bullet may have struck Raak's cellphone, possibly preventing a more serious injury.