Ben Affleck Warns Fans Directing Solo Batman Movie Is 'Not a Set Thing'
Ben Affleck Warns Fans Directing Solo Batman Movie Is 'Not a Set Thing'
Ben Affleck has continued his recent pattern of relentlessly toying with Batman fans' emotions, revealing in a new interview that his standalone Batfleck film is "not a set thing" and still lacks a script. Speaking with the ahead of the wide release of his crime drama , Affleck doubled down on his previous promise of maintaining a very strict level of quality control. "That's the idea," Affleck said of on Sunday. "But it's not a set thing and there’s no script. If it doesn't come together in a way I think is really great I'm not going to do it." Affleck, speaking to an audience following a screening in December, previously struck a much different tone when discussing his venture. According to , Affleck indicated that he expected the film to start production this spring. "We're on the right track with that and everything is coming together," he said . "We're still finishing up a script. I'm very excited." Though the Bruce Wayne story hasn't been met with capable hands in the past, Affleck said he has nothing but love for his predecessors. "I respect all of those [Batman] movies," Affleck told  . "Christopher Nolan did an incredible job, Christian Bale did an incredible job, Tim Burton did an incredible job. At a certain point you have to look forward and try to believe in your own vision for it and not be looking over your shoulder the whole time." Here's an idea: Stop asking this dude about until he's ready to get specific.

Ben Affleck has continued his recent pattern of relentlessly toying with Batman fans' emotions, revealing in a new interview that his standalone Batfleck film is "not a set thing" and still lacks a script. Speaking with the Guardian ahead of the wide release of his crime drama Live by Night, Affleck doubled down on his previous promise of maintaining a very strict level of quality control.

"That's the idea," Affleck said of The Batman on Sunday. "But it's not a set thing and there’s no script. If it doesn't come together in a way I think is really great I'm not going to do it."

Affleck, speaking to an audience following a Live by Night screening in December, previously struck a much different tone when discussing his Batman venture. According to Variety, Affleck indicated that he expected the film to start production this spring. "We're on the right track with that and everything is coming together," he said. "We're still finishing up a script. I'm very excited."

Though the Bruce Wayne story hasn't always been met with capable hands in the past, Affleck said he has nothing but love for his predecessors. "I respect all of those [Batman] movies," Affleck told Variety. "Christopher Nolan did an incredible job, Christian Bale did an incredible job, Tim Burton did an incredible job. At a certain point you have to look forward and try to believe in your own vision for it and not be looking over your shoulder the whole time."

Here's an idea: Stop asking this dude about The Batman until he's ready to get specific.