Billie Lourd posts touching Instagram tribute to Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds
Billie Lourd posts touching Instagram tribute to Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds
In one tragic week, the world lost two amazing talents — actresses Carrie Fisher , 60, and her mother, Debbie Reynolds , 84. But while fans mourned the loss of the cultural icons, Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourd, mourned the loss of a mother and a grandmother. On Monday, the 24-year-old actress broke her social media silence to share a heartbreaking tribute to both beloved women and thank everyone for their support during this difficult time. SEE ALSO: Fans mourn Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher with touching mother-daughter photos "Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist," Lourd wrote alongside an old photograph of her, Fisher and Reynolds. "There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me." ❤👩‍👩‍👧❤ Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist. There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me. A photo posted by Billie Lourd (@praisethelourd) on Fisher passed away on Dec. 27 , several days after suffering a heart attack on a plane. Her mother, Reynolds, passed away the following day on Dec. 28 . Both actresses will have a joint funeral and be interred at Forest Lawn-Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles. According to Reynolds' son, the funeral will be private. BONUS: Debbie Reynolds, Hollywood royalty and mother of Carrie Fisher, dies

In one tragic week, the world lost two amazing talents — actresses Carrie Fisher, 60, and her mother, Debbie Reynolds, 84.

But while fans mourned the loss of the cultural icons, Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourd, mourned the loss of a mother and a grandmother.

On Monday, the 24-year-old Scream Queens actress broke her social media silence to share a heartbreaking tribute to both beloved women and thank everyone for their support during this difficult time.

"Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist," Lourd wrote alongside an old photograph of her, Fisher and Reynolds.

"There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me."

❤👩‍👩‍👧❤ Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist. There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me. A photo posted by Billie Lourd (@praisethelourd) on Jan 2, 2017 at 10:09am PST

Fisher passed away on Dec. 27, several days after suffering a heart attack on a plane. Her mother, Reynolds, passed away the following day on Dec. 28.

Both actresses will have a joint funeral and be interred at Forest Lawn-Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles. According to Reynolds' son, the funeral will be private.