Ex-judge Richard Gee dies after being found in swimming pool



Ex-judge Richard Gee dies after being found in swimming pool

Updated

Richard Gee, a former judge who survived the bombing of his Sydney home more than 30 years ago, has died after being pulled unconscious from a backyard swimming pool on the northern beaches.

He was found unconscious in the pool on Neridah Avenue in Belrose about 10:00pm last night.

Paramedics were called to the home but the 83-year-old died at the scene.

Authorities have not said whether he drowned or died from another cause.

Justice Gee and members of his family survived a bomb attack at their home in Belrose in 1984.

He and his family escaped but the house was destroyed and later rebuilt.

Chief Justice praises 'dedication' after home bombed

The bombing was one of a number of attacks targeting Family Court judges between 1980 and 1985.

The Chief Justice of the Family Court of Australia, Diana Bryant, said the judges were saddened by his death.

"He will be remembered as a wonderful individual and judge who provided inspirational service to the court and to the community," she said.

"His exemplary dedication and commitment to the court was demonstrated by his brave decision to return to work following the horrific bombing of his family home in 1984, and to continue to serve the court and the community for another 14 years until his retirement."

President of the Law Council of Australia Fiona McLeod, SC, said Justice Gee was a well-respected judge.

"He was an expert in the field and he was highly regarded, and certainly his example of courage was one that inspired a generation of lawyers that followed.

"It's a reflection really of the bravery of the man to hear of these terrible things and then have judges go back to work and to continue to live and rebuild their lives … [it] was very inspirational."

A fellow former Family Court Judge and colleague Josephine Maxwell said he was an honourable man.

"I think it was probably his deep religious faith that got him through... the whole experience of the bombing and rebuilding his home.

"Dick and his family were subject to the most horrendous event... he and his children were at home in bed and the house was blown up.

"[His wife] Helen was in hospital at the time. They lost all their possessions. It was a dreadful time for him," she said.

Leonard Warwick to stand trial

A man accused of the attacks, Leonard John Warwick, is to stand trial on 32 charges including four counts of murder.

It is alleged Warwick targeted the Family Court, members of the judiciary and the public during a series of shootings and bombings.

Warwick will next face court to be arraigned on February 10.

Justice Gee's death follows 14 drownings in New South Wales over the holiday period.

A two-year-old boy who was pulled from a fishpond in Fairfield yesterday remains in a critical but stable condition in hospital.

Topics: crime, law-crime-and-justice, history, courts-and-trials, sydney-2000

First posted