29 Beauty Products You Should Try In 2017
29 Beauty Products You Should Try In 2017
We asked members of the BuzzFeed Community to tell us the best makeup they bought in 2016. Here are the ~gorgeous~ results:  Milani Amore Matte Lip Creme , a matte lip cream that will outlast anything. target.com instagram.com “The lip creme will stay on even when the apocalypse comes and even then my lips won’t feel dry and cakey.” —Claire Delahorne, Facebook Get it from Target or Walgreens for $7.99. Available in 10 colors.  Lorac Unzipped Eyeshadow Palette , full of eyeshadows in perfect shades you’ll use all the time. “Talk about killer color payoff. Hubba hubba.” —Stephanie Marie, Facebook Get it from Amazon for $42 .  Physician’s Formula 2 in 1 Lash Boosting Eyeliner , a Kat Von D dupe that’s also good for your lashes. Physicians Formula Eye Booster 2-in-1 Lash Boosting Eyeliner “The brush tip is a dupe for the Kat Von D Liquid Tattoo Liner. It makes doing a wing SOOO much easier, and saves me $10. Plus, the lash-boosting part of the eyeliner is actually no joke. I’ve been asked if I am wearing falsies when I am not.” —Rachel Broghammer, Facebook “HOLY GRAIL! My friends are so skeptical when I tell them it’s better than the KVD and Stila but are so amazed when they finally cave and try it.” —Kristina Carle, Facebook Get it from Amazon for $8.24 .  Olay ProX Cleansing System , a facial brush that’s just as good (if not better) than a Clarisonic. “Pretty much a cheaper version of the Clarisonic but works just as well. It doesn’t matter what foundation you get if your skin isn’t going to work with you. Six days in, my pores were so much more unclogged.” — Pushing Sunflowers Get it from Amazon for $21.49 .  Glossier Generation G Lip Stain , which gives the color payoff of a stain with the hydration and comfort of a lip balm. glossier.com glossier.com “I had been looking for years for a nice natural-ish red lipstick/lip product that was comfortable to wear and easy to apply for work. I found my answer in Glossier’s Generation G sheer matte lipstick. Some days I want to rock a super-bold lip in the office, but most days I don’t. I think I might buy all the other colors.” —Brittany Morgan, Facebook Get it from Glossier for $18 . Available in six colors.  Freeman Charcoal & Black Sugar Polishing Mask , a purifying mask that exfoliates skin and detoxifies pores. “I have SUPER bad acne, and I’ve started using this almost every day. My skin is SO much better! And less oily!” —Chals Glassman, Facebook Get a pack of two from Amazon for $10.97 .  Colourpop Ultra Matte Lip , a super-matte liquid lipstick that won’t dry out your pout. colourpop.com colourpop.com “They stay on all day and are not drying like other liquid lipstick. And only $6 each!” — Morgan S. Get them from Colourpop for $6 each. Available in 56 colors.  Maybelline Better Skin Powder Foundation , a setting powder with salicylic acid that’ll actually improve acne-prone skin. amazon.com amazon.com “2016 has had some great new drugstore products, but this one is my favorite finds. Hands down the best powder foundation — great for touchups or even to set your liquid foundation. LITERALLY makes your skin look better: soft, smooth and poreless. Amazing! And the lightest shade is *actually* light enough for us pale girls!” —Kristina Carle, Facebook Get it from Amazon or Target for $8.99. Available in eight shades.  Garnier Skin Active Micellar Cleansing Water , a makeup remover and cleanser you don’t even have to rinse off. amazon.com instagram.com “I gave in and tried it, and I’ll never go back to anything else. My face is fucking fantastic now.” — Tay Blaine “Big time life/skin changer!” —Nicole Dittbrenner, Facebook Get it from Amazon for $6.26 .  Smashbox Always On Matte Liquid Lipstick , a velvety lip color that doesn’t transfer. instagram.com “I bought it recently, and it changed my LIFE! It stays on through all three meals of the day, and it never smudges or comes off on drinks! I love the color so much, and it is the best lipstick I have!” — Mia Turicchi Get it from Sephora for $24 . Available in 20 colors.  Thayers Witch Hazel , a toner that helps acne-prone skin and smells fantastic. amazon.com amazon.com “I have acne-prone skin and huge pores, and since I started using it, my face has cleared up. And it gives the illusion of smaller pores. Plus my makeup goes on SO much more smoothly. I use it after washing my face in the morning and again at night after I remove my makeup.” —Elissa Westmoreland, Facebook “Thayers Rose Petal Witch Hazel finally cleared up my hormonal acne — can’t say enough good things about it.” —Liane Graham, Facebook Get it from Amazon for $9.87 .  Too Faced Born This Way Foundation , a full-coverage foundation that’ll actually last all day long. sephora.com instagram.com “A game-changer for me. The foundation stays on all day and doesn’t slip off my nose like most foundations do.” —Claire Delahorne, Facebook Get it from Sephora for $39 . Available in 18 shades.  NYX Felt Tip Liner , a colorful eyeliner that’s easy to apply — and will make your eyes POP. amazon.com amazon.com “In my effort to find the perfect black eye marker, I instead found the perfect brown and green. I wish they made purple too. And black, obviously (the super skinny black marker just isn’t the same).” —Emily Rachel Buck, Facebook Get them from Amazon for $10 (royal blue here and teal green here ), or check out the full selection at NYX .  Mizon All in One Snail Repair Cream , a super hydrating moisturizer that’ll make anyone a K-Beauty addict. “The purest and best form of hydration out there, and it has calmed my skin down a ton. Although I’m physically forcing myself to not type out every single Korean beauty product I’ve been using, this is probably my favorite.” —Vic Odine, Facebook Get it from Target for $38 . You can also buy it from Amazon for $11.82 — it has 4/5 stars, but that’s up to you guys.  Jeffree Star Velour Liquid Lipstick , a lightweight matte lipstick that won’t smear on your chin. jeffreestarcosmetics.com instagram.com “I’ve tried literally every liquid lipstick formula out there and thought nothing would ever be new and innovative. WRONG. This shit really stays on forever. It stayed on while I ate a damn Chipotle burrito the size of my face (with no transfer to my chin, which is impossible). And it feels like nothing is on your lips. I have actually forgotten I had it on a couple of times. GO — buy it and be flabbergasted with me!” —Rachel Broghammer, Facebook “Mind-blowingly awesome. They stay on for HOURS even through eating and drinking! My favorite shade from his line is Androgyny. Stunning. Gorgeous.” — Margeaux Eliz Get them from Jeffree Star for $18 each. Available in 38 colors.  NYX Ritualistic Illluminator , an inexpensive highlighter that’ll become a key part of your makeup routine. target.com instagram.com “I was late to to the highlighter game but after I found it at my local beauty store I haven’t gone a day without it.” — Eleanor-Mertin Get it from Amazon or Target for $9.  Glam Glow Mud Mask , a clearing treatment that’ll zap all the gunk out of your pores. amazon.com amazon.com “It’s not cheap, but the minute you see all those blackheads being sucked out of your nose, you realize it’s worth the price!” — Linal Get it from Amazon for $58 .  Urban Decay Color Corrector , a game-changer for anyone with dark under eye circles. “For my hellish under eye circles and yellow eye lids. It made my husband say I looked really awake on a day I felt terrible.” — Elizabeth K Get it from Urban Decay or Sephora for $28. Available in five colors.  Tarte Maracuja Oil , a lightweight moisturizer you can use all year long. “It’s the perfect moisturizer — it’s incredibly light, not greasy at all, only need two or three drops for your entire face, and it’s cleared up my complexion a lot! I can use it in the incredibly hot (100+ degrees) and humid summers around here and in the dry, cold winters without it feeling too heavy or too light. It’s expensive, but when you’re using a couple of drops a day, one container lasts forever. I use like five drops and it’s enough for my face, neck and upper chest.” —Morgane Jones, Facebook Get it from Sephora for $48 .  Glossier Haloscope , a stunning highlighter made with ingredients that are good for your skin. glossier.com glossier.com glossier.com “I have the lighter one (Quartz). The whiteish clear stuff in the middle has coconut oil, castor seed oil, and almond oil, while the outer ring has real rose quartz or topaz. When you apply this it goes on so buttery and smooth — and the highlight is just beautiful. It’s amazing. I will never buy another highlighter again.” — Nessy MelMel 2010 Get it from Glossier for $22 . Available in three colors.  TonyMoly Inked Cushion Liner , an awesome eyeliner that comes in adorable quill and ink packaging. amazon.com amazon.com “So freaking adorable. Korean beauty has been a hit this year.” — Summer Kind of Girl Get the set (it comes with mascara) from Amazon for $14.99 .  Kat Von D Tattoo Liner , the cult favorite eyeliner that’ll make anyone a cat eye expert. buzzfeed.com katvondbeauty.com “My wings are sharp enough to kill anyone who says I’m wearing too much makeup.” — Chloe Starwater Get it from Kat Von D or Sephora for $20. Available in two colors. Chloe is also wearing Kat Von D Everlasting Liquid Lipstick (“very matte and stays forever”). Get it from Sephora for $20 . Available in 29 colors.  Colourpop Sculpting Stix , bronzing and highlighting sticks that makes contouring crazy easy. colourpop.com colourpop.com “Any other time I’ve tried to contour it has ended up looking like straight up dirt on my face, but with this product it’s so smooth and easy! No more dirt face for me!” —Emma Compton, Facebook Get them from Colourpop for $5 . Available in 12 shades.  Benefit They’re Real Mascara , a seriously powerful mascara that volumizes and lengthens without clumping. sephora.com instagram.com “It lengthens and volumizes lashes really well without making them stick together.” — Lauren Crabtre Get it from Sephora for $24 . Available in three colors. You can also get a travel size for $12 .  Tarte The Lip Sculptor Lipstick & Gloss , a double-sided lip color that feels amazing on. tartecosmetics.com tartecosmetics.com “It’s one side lipstick, one side lip gloss and the color is perfect. The lipstick lasts for hours with minimal need for reapplication, and it’s smooth and creamy and feels good on. Well worth the $24 price tag, it’s the best lip product I own.” — Amber M. Get it from Tarte for $24 .  NYX Dark Circle Concealer , an under-eye concealer that color-corrects without caking or flaking. “It does wonders for my green, blue, and purple under eye area… seriously, my circles are so bad they look like I’ve been punched. The subtle orange pigment neutralizes those colors without needing a thick layer, and it’s made with coconut oil to hydrate and prevent caking. It looks so natural you could wear it without foundation on top if you were in a hurry. I won’t leave the house without it. And the best part — it’s only $6 and lasts forever!” — Piccolo Get it from Target for $5.99 .  Lush Grease Lightning , a tea tree and aloe gel that soothes and calms skin. lushusa.com lushusa.com “This is the only acne product I’ve ever had that clears my face up overnight (literally overnight).” — Poptarts4lyf Get it from Lush for $14.95 .  Colourpop Brow Pencil , a pencil and spoolie you can apply in no time flat. colourpop.com instagram.com “Absolutely amazing! I’ve always had trouble doing my brows, so I wasn’t sure if it would work for me, but it’s seriously the best thing ever. It just takes a couple minutes to get perfect brows and you don’t have to be a makeup pro or anything.” — Bowtiesarecool Get them from Colourpop for $5 each.  Milky Piggy Carbonated Clay Mask , a foaming mask that’s fun to use ~and~ detoxifies your skin. amazon.com amazon.com “I actually did buy the Milky Piggy Carbonated Clay Mask. And I love it.” —Katie Mueller, Facebook Get it from Amazon for $11.50 . Saying BYE to 2016 like… Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter . Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

“The brush tip is a dupe for the Kat Von D Liquid Tattoo Liner. It makes doing a wing SOOO much easier, and saves me $10. Plus, the lash-boosting part of the eyeliner is actually no joke. I’ve been asked if I am wearing falsies when I am not.” —Rachel Broghammer, Facebook

“HOLY GRAIL! My friends are so skeptical when I tell them it’s better than the KVD and Stila but are so amazed when they finally cave and try it.” —Kristina Carle, Facebook

Get it from Amazon for $8.24.