4 Dead From Suspected Chemical Poisoning at Texas Home
4 Dead From Suspected Chemical Poisoning at Texas Home
Shares               Four people, all believed to be minors, are dead from suspected chemical poisoning at a home in Amarillo, Texas, on Monday, officials said. The fire department said the case appears to be an "accidental poisoning with no criminal intent." The victims were found after the fire department responded to a medical call around 5 a.m. today, the department said. It added that besides the four fatalities, several people were hospitalized. Family members told the fire department that one of them had applied under the home a pesticide that contained the chemical aluminum phosphide, officials said. "At some point, a family member tried washing the chemical from underneath the house with water," the department said. "When this chemical comes in contact with water, it creates phosphine gas, which is highly poisonous and can cause pulmonary edema and respiratory failure." The fire department said it's unclear how long the family was exposed.  Shares                  4 Dead From Suspected Chemical Poisoning at Texas Home   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Amnesty: As Many as 13,000 Hanged in Syria Prison Since 2011   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   NTSB Set to Release Cause of Fiery North Dakota Train Crash   Kansas Woman Runs 1st Full Mile Since Leg Amputation   Teen Admits Killing Florida Woman in London Knife Rampage   Palestinians Urge Sanctions Over Israel's Settlement Law   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   At $250M, Los Angeles Home Most Expensive Listed in US

Four people, all believed to be minors, are dead from suspected chemical poisoning at a home in Amarillo, Texas, on Monday, officials said.

The fire department said the case appears to be an "accidental poisoning with no criminal intent."

The victims were found after the fire department responded to a medical call around 5 a.m. today, the department said. It added that besides the four fatalities, several people were hospitalized.

Family members told the fire department that one of them had applied under the home a pesticide that contained the chemical aluminum phosphide, officials said.

"At some point, a family member tried washing the chemical from underneath the house with water," the department said. "When this chemical comes in contact with water, it creates phosphine gas, which is highly poisonous and can cause pulmonary edema and respiratory failure."

The fire department said it's unclear how long the family was exposed.