Juicer machines are a threat to your waistline according to weight loss expert
The biggest threat to your waistline this January? Your juicer!


As tempting as it may be to ask for a best-selling juicer this Christmas, it's time to think again.

Despite being a favourite of supermodels, actresses and reality TV stars, the gadgets can help people to pile on the pounds instead of dropping a dress size.

Here, weight loss expert Louise Parker - who has helped many celebrities stay trim - explains to MailOnline exactly what juicing can do to your figure.

Celebrity weight loss expert Louise Parker says the juicing 'fad' is best avoided. Here, in a MailOnline exclusive, she reveals what it does to the body

The concept of 'juicing' is just one of the trends that's taken off because it appeals to people's desperation – usually to lose weight or get healthy fast.

Sadly, when their 'diet' is over they have stuck to their old habits and won't improve their health in the long run.

If anything, they've taken a step back by shedding muscle from their body and they've now got to work hard to restore it.

Juice fasts will cause people to drop 'total weight' fast but a disappointing amount of that will be body fat.

They'll also drop significant water - but most crucially muscle mass.

The muscle mass lost - which is someone's metabolism - takes weeks to put on again, and that's through some really demanding strength training sessions.

If anyone had any idea how much hard work was involved in just recovering the lost muscle mass, they'd never juice fast again.

If someone was to drop 2kg on a week long fast - which would not be unusual for a woman, double it if you're male - don't be surprised if it takes up to six weeks to restore.

And that's through some tough strength sessions.

Juice has no fibre - it's pure vegetable sugars.

Despite being a favourite of celebrities such as Julianne Moore (left) and Jessica Alba (right), the gadgets can help people to pile on the pounds instead of dropping a dress size

There are some, such as in beetroot, although generally vegetable juices are the wiser option but never as a fast or detox, simply as an addition to your balanced diet.

Fruit juices are high in fructose with no fibre to slow down the blood sugar release, so the body gets a massive hit of sugar which is likely to cause a high - sending the remainder of the fructose to fat storage

Few will burn two oranges, one banana, ¼ pineapple, ½ mango and two kiwis in a couple of hours walking round a shopping centre or sitting at your desk.

So while each juice does contain a multitude of antioxidants from the generous amount of fruits and veggies inside each cup, they're delivered in a way that literally super injects the sugars into the body.

This is not a good thing as maintaining stable blood sugar levels are the key to good hormonal health and balance which is directly linked to fat loss.

Juicing plays havoc with your blood sugar regulation so people are likely to gain body fat and not lose it if they're consuming more in the form of calories - even if they're natural.

It's particularly detrimental to those with insulin sensitivity or diabetes and can increase their risk of developing diabetes if they're consuming high fructose fruit juices on a regular basis.

While each juice does contain a multitude of antioxidants, they're delivered in a way that literally super injects the sugars into the body, says Ms Parker

Any fruit and vegetable can be contaminated, and it being organic doesn't protect anyone from this.

If people receive a dose of contaminated fruits in a pint dose, they could risk stomach upset or even E. coli.

But if they make their own, they need to make sure they're cleaning their fruit thoroughly.

LOUISA'S SMOOTHIE I ditched my juicer for a professional blender over a decade ago and it was the best thing I did. I do make smoothies - but always with a protein. My Vitality Smoothie has such an abundance of antioxidants from a mixture of frozen summer berries - flash frozen fresh so they maintain all their super nutrient powers, having not sat in storage and supermarket shelves for weeks. It's the best mix to have in the freezer – blackberries, raspberries, redcurrants and blackcurrants are just jam packed with antioxidants and fibre. I mix 150g of the mix straight from the freezer, along with 200g of greek yoghurt - packed with protein which protects your metabolism and calcium, which aids weight loss, a pinch of stevia for sweetness and a couple of cups of water. Whizz for a minute in a high speed blender and you've a super charged protein shake absolutly full of vitamins and fibre.

Shop-bought versions are generally pasteurised for this reason, losing a huge dose of the vitamins and 'selling point' of the drink.

Some fruits are high in sorbitol, such as apples and pears, and concentrated in a juice can cause stomach upset and diarrhea.

Children are more sensitive to this.

Those drinking too much carrot juice can also put themselves at risk of carotenemia – where the beta carotene literally turns them orange.

It's a cheap base at most juice bars, and so while beta carotene is good for health, eat it as intended and don't drink it.

Metabolism is entirely dependent on muscle mass and so anyone concerned about their figure should be totally obsessed about their muscle mass.

People can spot the fad diet by asking themselves 'Will I still be doing 80 percent of this in five years time?' and 'Would I be happy if my teenage daughter did it?'

Human bodies are brilliant - but there's no need to go on any extreme 'detox' in the New Year.

Most people on a detox don't really know what a toxin is, as the reality is that as soon as your body is back into a routine of eating beautifully, it cleans itself, restores itself without having to resort to the unsustainable.

And it's really important to do this in a way that protects the metabolism, ensuring hunger is never felt.