Jakarta ferry fire sees people killed on route to Tidung in Indonesia
23 killed, dozens injured after fire on Indonesian tourist boat


The cause of the fire was thought to be a short circuit on a power generator

The Zahro Express caught fire after leaving Muara Angke port in North Jakarta

23 people have been killed and dozens injured after

The captain of a tourist boat was the first person to jump ship after his vessel exploded near Indonesia.

Local police arrested the skipper after 23 people died and almost 50 were injured on the boat which was travelling toislands north of the Indonesian capital Jakarta.

The Zahro Express caught fire shortly after leaving Muara Angke port in North Jakarta. The cause of the fire was thought to be a short circuit on a power generator, said police.

'Thick smoke suddenly emerged, blanketing the cabin,' said survivor Ardi who was being treated in a Jakarta hospital.

Twenty three people were killed and dozens injured on Sunday after a fire ripped through a boat carrying nearly 250 people to islands north of the Indonesian capital Jakarta

Bodies of the deceased pile up on the shore after a fire ripped through an Indonesian boat

'All passengers panicked and ran up to the deck to throw floats into the water. In a split second, the fire becomes bigger coming from where fuel is stored,' said Ardi, who was on the boat with his son.

The boat was towed back to port where the victims, having been placed in body bags, were removed from the badly charred ship.

The boat was carrying some 250 passengers when it burst into flames. as it travelled to the resort island of Tidung.

Panicked passengers fought over life jackets and jumped into the sea as the huge blaze tore through the ferry after starting in the engine room, with authorities blaming an electrical fault for the accident.

Most were rescued, but 23 were killed and 50 suffered injuries, according to the official disaster agency.

Police said the captain, named in local reports as Muhammad Nali, had been detained Sunday and was being questioned over suspected negligence in relation to the fire which reduced the boat to a blackened wreck.

Jakarta police spokesman Argo Yuwono said:'We are still investigating the case and questioning the captain.'

Several local media outlets reported the captain jumped ship first, abandoning the tourists as the fire erupted, and was found floating in the sea with other passengers before being rescued.

Tonny Budiono, a senior official at the transport ministry, vowed that the captain would be punished if the allegations turned out to be true.

Search teams continued to scour the waters Monday as a precaution but officials said they believed that all passengers were now accounted for.

It was just the latest fatal maritime accident in the vast Indonesian archipelago, which relies heavily on boats to ferry people round its 17,000 islands but has a patchy safety record.

In September a tourist boat on the resort island of Bali exploded, killing two foreigners and injuring about 20 others.

An injured man is stretchered away from the boat as awaiting media watch on

An orange piece of clothing floats amongst the debris of the sunken ship as a young boy looks on

Several people inspect the charred remains of the sunken boat

The Zahro Express caught fire shortly after leaving Muara Angke port in North Jakarta

Body bags are removed from the badly charred ship by Indonesian officials

The cause of the fire was thought to be a short circuit on a power generator

People inspect the charred personal belongings of the passengers of the Zahro Express

According to the head of Jakarta's search and rescue agency, Hendra Sudirman, 248 people were on board, more than double the previous estimate of 100, and out of more than 200 people rescued, 32 were being treated at hospitals in Jakarta.

Sea accidents are frequent in Indonesia, a sprawling archipelago, with vessels often overloaded and having too few life jackets on boat.

A man sits near what remains of a ferry that caught fire off the coast of Jakarta