4 dead after powerful storms in Alabama, sheriff says
4 dead after powerful storms in Alabama, sheriff says
Severe storms in Alabama on Monday Jan. 2, 2017.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Jan 2, 2017 11:42 PM EST – Four people are dead in the Rehobeth area of Houston County, Alabama, Sheriff Donald Valenza confirms, CBS affiliate WHNT reported.  Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said he spoke with Valenza, who confirmed four fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area. “Prayers for those impacted today,” he tweeted. Just spoke w/ Houston Co Sheriff Donald Valenza. Confirmed 4 fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area. Prayers for those impacted today. Dothan Houston County Emergency Management spokesperson Kris Ware told CBS News the deaths occurred inside a trailer on Leonard Drive when a tree fell on the structure. No other injuries have been reported. The National Weather Service had issued a tornado warning for Houston County on Monday evening. Storms are still impacting parts of the states and local responders and emergency managers will assess the damage at first light, the Alabama Emergency Management Agency said in a statement to CBS News. Thunderstorms and some tornadoes remain a threat in southern Alabama, southwest Georgia and northwest Florida. Those areas remain under a tornado watch until late Monday, as a storm system that began early Monday in Texas keeps pushing eastward. The system knocked out power to more than 80,000 customers in Louisiana and Mississippi at the peak of the storm Monday. Trees were downed or buildings were reported damaged in 18 counties in Mississippi, 15 parishes in Louisiana and 15 counties in Texas. No injuries or deaths have been reported in Louisiana and Mississippi.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

HOUSTON COUNTY, Ala. – Four people are dead in the Rehobeth area of Houston County, Alabama, Sheriff Donald Valenza confirms, CBS affiliate WHNT reported.

Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said he spoke with Valenza, who confirmed four fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area.

“Prayers for those impacted today,” he tweeted.

Just spoke w/ Houston Co Sheriff Donald Valenza. Confirmed 4 fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area. Prayers for those impacted today. — Gov. Robert Bentley (@GovernorBentley) January 3, 2017

Dothan Houston County Emergency Management spokesperson Kris Ware told CBS News the deaths occurred inside a trailer on Leonard Drive when a tree fell on the structure. No other injuries have been reported.

The National Weather Service had issued a tornado warning for Houston County on Monday evening.

Storms are still impacting parts of the states and local responders and emergency managers will assess the damage at first light, the Alabama Emergency Management Agency said in a statement to CBS News.

Thunderstorms and some tornadoes remain a threat in southern Alabama, southwest Georgia and northwest Florida. Those areas remain under a tornado watch until late Monday, as a storm system that began early Monday in Texas keeps pushing eastward.

The system knocked out power to more than 80,000 customers in Louisiana and Mississippi at the peak of the storm Monday. Trees were downed or buildings were reported damaged in 18 counties in Mississippi, 15 parishes in Louisiana and 15 counties in Texas. No injuries or deaths have been reported in Louisiana and Mississippi.