Obama to Give His Farewell Speech in Chicago
Obama to Give His Farewell Speech in Chicago
Shares               President Obama is preparing to give his farewell speech from his home city of Chicago . "I'll go home to Chicago to say my grateful farewell to you, even if you can't be there in person," he said in an email announcing the Tuesday, January 10 speech. He said his farewell speech, like a peaceful transfer of power, follows the precedent set by George Washington in 1796. "I'm just beginning to write my remarks. But I'm thinking about them as a chance to say thank you for this amazing journey, to celebrate the ways you've changed this country for the better these past eight years, and to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here," he wrote. The email follows a series of tweets Sunday, in which he reflected on the past eight years.  It’s been the privilege of my life to serve as your President. I look forward to standing with you as a citizen. Happy New Year everybody.  He said in his email that while there has been a "fair share of challenges" since 2009 we've "come through them stronger." "That's because we have never let go of a belief that has guided us ever since our founding -- our conviction that, together, we can change this country for the better," he said. "So I hope you'll join me one last time. Because, for me, it's always been about you." Shares                  Obama to Give His Farewell Speech in Chicago   Kellyanne Conway Defends White House's Credibility: We Have 'High Regard' for Facts   Trump Claims US Murder Rate 'Highest' in '47 Years' Despite FBI Data Showing Otherwise   Hearing Concludes on Challenge to Trump's Controversial Immigration Order   Government's Own Warnings to Law Enforcement Often Cite Media Reports Trump Says Don’t Exist   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban but Regrets Quick Rollout   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Lawmakers' Phones Ring off the Hook Over Trump's Education Pick   The Note: A Day of Tests for Trump   2 Other Times Kellyanne Conway Referred to Bowling Green 'Massacre' or 'Attack'   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Seattle to Cut Ties With Wells Fargo Over Oil Pipeline

President Obama is preparing to give his farewell speech from his home city of Chicago.

"I'll go home to Chicago to say my grateful farewell to you, even if you can't be there in person," he said in an email announcing the Tuesday, January 10 speech.

He said his farewell speech, like a peaceful transfer of power, follows the precedent set by George Washington in 1796.

"I'm just beginning to write my remarks. But I'm thinking about them as a chance to say thank you for this amazing journey, to celebrate the ways you've changed this country for the better these past eight years, and to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here," he wrote.

The email follows a series of tweets Sunday, in which he reflected on the past eight years.

It’s been the privilege of my life to serve as your President. I look forward to standing with you as a citizen. Happy New Year everybody. — President Obama (@POTUS) January 1, 2017

He said in his email that while there has been a "fair share of challenges" since 2009 we've "come through them stronger."

"That's because we have never let go of a belief that has guided us ever since our founding -- our conviction that, together, we can change this country for the better," he said. "So I hope you'll join me one last time. Because, for me, it's always been about you."