Brazil's overcrowded prisons experience massacres 'almost daily'



Brazil's overcrowded prisons experience massacres 'almost daily'

Updated

Medieval conditions and a broken truce between two of Brazil's biggest drug gangs are behind the latest bloody massacre inside a prison, security experts say.

Overcrowding is extremely common in Brazil's prisons, which suffer endemic violence with food scarce and cells so packed that inmates have no space to lie down.

The Anisio Jobim prison complex, where a riot left almost 60 people dead, currently houses 2,230 inmates — despite having a capacity of only 590.

The prison is run by a private company that is paid according to the number of inmates.

Father Valdir Silveira, director of Pastoral Carceraria, a Catholic centre that monitors prison conditions in Brazil, said massacres occurred "almost daily".

"Our prisons were built to annihilate, torture and kill," he said.

Jose Vicente da Silva, a former national public security secretary, said the incidents in Manaus were a result of Brazil's severe recession and poor management of the prison system.

"Every year 500 inmates die in Brazilian prisons. With the current economic crisis and the budget cuts, the gangs get even bolder," he said.

History of bloody massacres

The latest riot in Manaus was the deadliest in years.

A 1992 rebellion at the Carandiru prison in Sao Paulo state saw 111 inmates killed, nearly all of them by police retaking the jail.

In October last year, at least 18 inmates were killed in two prisons in remote parts of northern and western Brazil in clashes between the PCC and the CV.

Six men were decapitated and their bodies set on fire, local media reported.

In 2001, at least 19 people were killed in Brazil's biggest prison uprising, involving more than 20,000 inmates in 29 jails across the state of Sao Paulo.

Fears violence could spread to more prison

Security analysts said a truce held for years between Brazil's two largest drug gangs, the Sao Paulo-based First Capital Command (PCC) and the Rio de Janeiro-based Red Command (CV), was broken last year.

They said it had resulted in months of deadly prison battles and sparked fears that chaos would spread to other prisons.

The latest violence was between inmates aligned with the PCC and a local Manaus criminal group known as the North Family, widely believed to be attacking at the behest of CV.

Reuters/AP

Topics: law-crime-and-justice, crime, prisons-and-punishment, brazil

First posted