Parents Welcome New Year's Twins Born Minutes Apart, in Different Years
Parents Welcome New Year's Twins Born in Different Years 
Shares               Meet the proud parents who welcomed New Year’s twins born in different years: the oldest in 2016, and the other, minutes later, in 2017. Utah couple Huyen Nguyen and Nick Criddle are celebrating the birth of their identical twin boys. Baby James came into the world Dec. 31 at 11:59 p.m., while younger brother Matthew arrived Jan. 1 at 12:01, making him the first baby born in the state in the new year, officials at Davis Hospital and Medical Center told ABC Salt Lake City affiliate KTVX-TV. Born in Layton, Utah, James weighed 5 pounds and Matthew was 5 pounds, 5 ounces. The boys are the first children for Nguyen, 36, but numbers three and four for Criddle, 34, who has two daughters, Kaitlyn, 13, and Michelle, 11, from a previous marriage.       "Both of us are really happy," Criddle told ABC News today. "It was a surprise, definitely." Nguyen and Criddle originally had a caesarean section scheduled for Jan. 11, but had to go in earlier because of medical complications, Criddle said. The procedure began at 11:40 p.m. on New Year's Eve. "It wasn't anything we tried to plan, but it's a fun story," Criddle said. The boys will “look the same, talk to the same and this is something they can have that's different: a birth date, birth month and year,” he said. “The twins part was fun, too." And they’re not alone. Like newborns James and Matthew, Arizona twins Sawyer and Everett made their debut in different years. Sawyer arrived at 11:50 p.m. Dec. 31. But 11 minutes later, at 12:01 a.m. Jan. 1, his brother, Everett, was born in the year 2017 to mom Holly Shay and dad Brandon Shay. “I think Sawyer might give his brother a hard time,” Brandon Shay, the twins' father, told ABC Phoenix affiliate KNXV-TV. “I think it’s mostly going to be Sawyer teasing Everett over him being the eldest.” Holly Shay gave birth at 37 weeks at Banner Thunderbird Medical Center in Glendale, Arizona. Sawyer was 5 pounds, 5 ounces and Everett was 4 pounds, 8 ounces, the hospital told ABC News. Shares                  Parents Welcome New Year's Twins Born in Different Years   Hearing Concludes on Challenge to Trump's Controversial Immigration Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Seattle to Cut Ties With Wells Fargo Over Oil Pipeline   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   1 Suspect Dead, 1 Captured After Weeklong Manhunt in Southeast   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   Israeli Allies Condemn Settlement Law as Lawsuits Loom   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC, With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Eastern Airlines Mystery Continues: 'We Were Close'   Bachelor Nick Viall: I Was 'More Aware' of Drama Than Some Women Realized   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Glitz, Gowns and Politics at This Year's Oscars   How Lady Gaga Got in Shape for Her Super Bowl Halftime Performance   At a Cool $250M, LA Mega-Mansion Is Priciest Listing in US

Meet the proud parents who welcomed New Year’s twins born in different years: the oldest in 2016, and the other, minutes later, in 2017.

Utah couple Huyen Nguyen and Nick Criddle are celebrating the birth of their identical twin boys. Baby James came into the world Dec. 31 at 11:59 p.m., while younger brother Matthew arrived Jan. 1 at 12:01, making him the first baby born in the state in the new year, officials at Davis Hospital and Medical Center told ABC Salt Lake City affiliate KTVX-TV.

Born in Layton, Utah, James weighed 5 pounds and Matthew was 5 pounds, 5 ounces.

The boys are the first children for Nguyen, 36, but numbers three and four for Criddle, 34, who has two daughters, Kaitlyn, 13, and Michelle, 11, from a previous marriage.

"Both of us are really happy," Criddle told ABC News today. "It was a surprise, definitely."

Nguyen and Criddle originally had a caesarean section scheduled for Jan. 11, but had to go in earlier because of medical complications, Criddle said.

The procedure began at 11:40 p.m. on New Year's Eve.

"It wasn't anything we tried to plan, but it's a fun story," Criddle said.

The boys will “look the same, talk to the same and this is something they can have that's different: a birth date, birth month and year,” he said. “The twins part was fun, too."

And they’re not alone.

Like newborns James and Matthew, Arizona twins Sawyer and Everett made their debut in different years.

Sawyer arrived at 11:50 p.m. Dec. 31. But 11 minutes later, at 12:01 a.m. Jan. 1, his brother, Everett, was born in the year 2017 to mom Holly Shay and dad Brandon Shay.

“I think Sawyer might give his brother a hard time,” Brandon Shay, the twins' father, told ABC Phoenix affiliate KNXV-TV. “I think it’s mostly going to be Sawyer teasing Everett over him being the eldest.”

Holly Shay gave birth at 37 weeks at Banner Thunderbird Medical Center in Glendale, Arizona. Sawyer was 5 pounds, 5 ounces and Everett was 4 pounds, 8 ounces, the hospital told ABC News.