'We have grave concerns': There could be trouble ahead for the NDIS if the ACT's problems go national



'We have grave concerns': There could be trouble ahead for the NDIS if the ACT's problems go national

Updated

Enrolment in the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) may eventually be 35 per cent more than originally estimated in the ACT.

Key points: NDIS enrolments in ACT expected to be 35 per cent higher than estimated

Participants complain there is shortage of qualified support workers

Some care providers say NDIS pay rates are too low

Participants are experiencing a shortage of support workers, the NDIS web portal continues to frustrate users and some care providers say the rates they are being paid by the scheme make it unsustainable.

That is just a snapshot of the NDIS in the ACT, the only state or territory where the scheme has been fully rolled out.

"Given the size and scale of the ACT, if we can't sort these issues out here, we have grave concerns about what this means for the rest of the country," Alzheimer's Australia ACT chief executive officer Jan Chorley said.

Ms Chorley's first concern is the controversy surrounding the estimates for how many participants would be eligible for the scheme in the ACT.

When the NDIS is rolled out in states and territories, their respective governments agree on a target estimate to determine funding.

In the ACT, the original estimate was that 5,075 people would be eligible. It is generally agreed that figure was far too low.

Do you know more about this story? Email 7.30syd@your.abc.net.au

Around September last year the scheme stopped taking new participants in the ACT because the target estimate had been reached.

After a backlog built up, the scheme started readmitting participants. But it is not clear what is happening when it comes to setting a new estimate.

The ACT Government said in a statement it was "not involved in any re-negotiation of these agreements", and that costs for participants "above the target of 5,075 is a Commonwealth responsibility".

That is not the way the Federal Government sees it.

"The Commonwealth is in negotiations with the ACT around funding arrangements..." it said in a statement.

"There's been almost a lack of transparency around what it might look like in the future," Ms Chorley said. "We're struggling a bit to sort of get information. And I think that's the biggest issue."

In September, the NDIS released a Market Position Statement that said it expected there would be 6,900 participants in the scheme in the ACT.

Advocates say that is a worry, because if other estimates are out across the country, it could call into question the basic assumption of the NDIS — that 460,000 participants are expected on full rollout out in 2019, with a budget of $22 billion.

'We haven't got a sustainable workforce'

Many of those who are participating in the scheme in the ACT have similar reviews: They are happy it is here, but they are not happy with a long list of problems and frustrations.

"The NDIS came along at just the right time," Leslea Geary said.

She is the mother of three children, all living with varying levels of intellectual disability due to chromosomal transference.

"Suddenly we have a plan, with flexibility. We have funding."

Ms Geary manages the NDIS support plans for daughters Annie, 18, Kelsey, 22, and son Tully, 24.

Her biggest problem is getting qualified support workers. Right now there simply are not enough to go around.

"The issue is that the marketplace hasn't yet caught up," she said. "We haven't yet got enough workers; we haven't got a sustainable workforce. Actually getting the workers in, and keeping them, is not easy."

Another issue is the NDIS web portal.

Ms Geary signs into it to submit invoices for services she has paid for. There are plenty of times it just does not work.

On disability online forums, the web portal is enemy number one. The NDIS says problems have mostly been fixed, with successful payments to providers and participants now at 96 per cent. Ms Geary said she often still has problems.

"I find it frustrating," she said.

"But it's not my livelihood. What's frustrating is the number of agencies that depend on services they've delivered who can't access this."

'If we can't make it work, nobody can'

Another emerging NDIS issue in the ACT involves care providers who employ support workers, like the ones who look after Ms Geary's children. Some say the rates the NDIS pays them to provide services are too low.

"Ultimately that NDIS rate is a bargain basement rate for what is expected to be a platinum quality service," said Rob Woolley, general manager of Just Better Care in the ACT.

The NDIS sets the basic rate for support work at $43.58 per hour.

Just Better Care charges non-NDIS clients $52.80 per hour.

Mr Woolley's company has decided to de-register from the NDIS. That means it will not be bound by the scheme's rates — but it also will not be able to do any work for the majority of NDIS participants whose plans are managed by big agencies.

The company said it had no choice because it lost $200,000 last year providing services on NDIS rates.

"We think we're a prime example. If we can't make it work, nobody can," Just Better Care Canberra owner Fergus Nelson said.

Not everyone agrees the rates the scheme pays make it unsustainable.

"It does not follow you become a registered provider and success flows," said Caroline van Til, a leading expert on the NDIS market with PPB Advisory.

"If you want to aim for success as a provider in the new NDIS world, you need to make sure you've got the fundamentals of your business right.

"[It's] about cost, it's about workforce, it's about services."

Mr Fergus said other providers are also thinking of de-registering.

If that happens, the number of workers available to provide services at NDIS rates could collapse.

"This is a great scheme. We've seen some fantastic outcomes with the people that we work with," he said.

"But this pricing issue … is putting that at risk."

Topics: disabilities, act

First posted