Hrithik Requested Twinkle To Make A Film For Him & What Followed Was An Adorable Twitter Banter!
Hrithik Requested Twinkle To Make A Film For Him & What Followed Was An Adorable Twitter Banter
Hrithik Requested Twinkle To Make A Film For Him & What Followed Was An Adorable Twitter Banter! After ruling 2016 like a boss with her tweets, book(s) and a kickass debut on Koffee With Karan, Twinkle Khanna has even better plans for 2017. Twinkle took to Twitter to announce her first film as a producer on Twitter and people from the film fraternity couldn't help but praise and congratulate her. Mrs Funnybones Movies - first production -written and directed by the brilliant Balki -Pad up and get ready ! https://t.co/rIsTicWbXY (Also Read: Meet Arunachalam Muruganantham, The Menstruation Man Who Is One Of India's Most Well-Known Social Entrepreneurs ) Twinkle's first film will be directed by R. Balki and would star none other than the 'man of his house' AKA Akshay Kumar. Based on the life of Arunachalam Murugantham, who is widely popular for inventing low-cost sanitary pad making machines in India, the film has been titled . Among many congratulatory messages was one tweet that Twinkle couldn't ignore. Congratulating his 'neighbor' Twinkle Khanna, Hrithik Roshan posted a sweet message for her along with a sweet request. @mrsfunnybones  @akshaykumar congrats dear neighbour. looking forward to this! (Write a 2 hero film next) To which, the Queen of wit and humor replied, Haha! Thank you - I wish I was that #Kaabil my friend :) https://t.co/14xpCHaNDV If this happens, it surely would be one 'Kaabil' collaboration. Agree?

After ruling 2016 like a boss with her tweets, book(s) and a kickass debut on Koffee With Karan, Twinkle Khanna has even better plans for 2017.

Twinkle took to Twitter to announce her first film as a producer on Twitter and people from the film fraternity couldn't help but praise and congratulate her.

Mrs Funnybones Movies - first production -written and directed by the brilliant Balki -Pad up and get ready ! https://t.co/rIsTicWbXY — Twinkle Khanna (@mrsfunnybones) January 1, 2017

(Also Read: Meet Arunachalam Muruganantham, The Menstruation Man Who Is One Of India's Most Well-Known Social Entrepreneurs)

Twinkle's first film will be directed by R. Balki and would star none other than the 'man of his house' AKA Akshay Kumar. Based on the life of Arunachalam Murugantham, who is widely popular for inventing low-cost sanitary pad making machines in India, the film has been titled Padman.

Among many congratulatory messages was one tweet that Twinkle couldn't ignore. Congratulating his 'neighbor' Twinkle Khanna, Hrithik Roshan posted a sweet message for her along with a sweet request.

@mrsfunnybones @akshaykumar congrats dear neighbour. looking forward to this! (Write a 2 hero film next) — Hrithik Roshan (@iHrithik) January 1, 2017

To which, the Queen of wit and humor replied,

Haha! Thank you - I wish I was that #Kaabil my friend :) https://t.co/14xpCHaNDV — Twinkle Khanna (@mrsfunnybones) January 2, 2017

If this happens, it surely would be one 'Kaabil' collaboration. Agree?