Former Hyderabad Banker And Drug Addict Grows Cannabis In His 2-BHK Flat, Lands Behind Bars
Former Hyderabad Banker And Drug Addict Grows Cannabis In His 2-BHK Flat, Lands Behind Bars
Former Hyderabad Banker And Drug Addict Grows Cannabis In His 2-BHK Flat, Lands Behind Bars However, Hussain's peddling to Mumbai's drug circuit came to an abrupt end when the Special Task Force raided his flat and took possession of the 40 plants he was nurturing with humidifiers and LED lights. 33-year-old Hussain was arrested on New Year's day while selling ganja to customers at Golconda. "Shahed installed ACs in both rooms to maintain a conducive temperature. He also kept LED lights above the plants to maintain natural light-like situation and kept table fans in swing mode to give them sufficient air," said Task Force additional DCP, N Koti Reddy. Hussain would buy the cannabis from suppliers in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and Tandur for Rs. 3,500/kilo and peddle it to customers in Hyderabad for Rs. 16,000/kilo! With the help of his US-based pal, Garith Christopher, Hussain would take video tips and learn how to cultivate ganja in the right environment. He would grow the plants himself after buying the ingredients locally. Such was his dedication that Hussain never allowed anyone inside the flat located in Friends Colony, Manikonda.

Syed Shahed Hussain had been a drug addict since his teens. Making its way into adulthood, his dependency on drugs made Hussain a scientific pro at cultivating cannabis in his 2-bedroom flat with controlled temperatures that allowed the cannabis to grow from seed to flower. All this with the help of an American friend with expert tips.

TOI

However, Hussain's peddling to Mumbai's drug circuit came to an abrupt end when the Special Task Force raided his flat and took possession of the 40 plants he was nurturing with humidifiers and LED lights. 33-year-old Hussain was arrested on New Year's day while selling ganja to customers at Golconda.

YouTube

"Shahed installed ACs in both rooms to maintain a conducive temperature. He also kept LED lights above the plants to maintain natural light-like situation and kept table fans in swing mode to give them sufficient air," said Task Force additional DCP, N Koti Reddy.

Hussain would buy the cannabis from suppliers in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and Tandur for Rs. 3,500/kilo and peddle it to customers in Hyderabad for Rs. 16,000/kilo!

YouTube

With the help of his US-based pal, Garith Christopher, Hussain would take video tips and learn how to cultivate ganja in the right environment. He would grow the plants himself after buying the ingredients locally.

Such was his dedication that Hussain never allowed anyone inside the flat located in Friends Colony, Manikonda.

With inputs from TOI