5 Dead After Tornado, Severe Weather Sweeps Across South
5 Dead After Tornado, Severe Weather Sweeps Across South
Shares               Four people died after a tree fell on their mobile home in Alabama and a man drowned in Florida after severe weather swept across the South on Monday. The four people who died were all in one structure in the Rehobeth, Alabama area, near the Florida border, according to Alabama's governor, Robert Bentley .  Just spoke w/ Houston Co Sheriff Donald Valenza. Confirmed 4 fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area. Prayers for those impacted today.  An electrical fire also struck the Rehobeth Baptist Church during the storm, causing damages to the church and surrounding buildings, according to Kris Ware from the Houston County Emergency Management Agency. Officials said they were not sure how much structural damage the area suffered and said there was also "major flooding." Floodwaters in across the state line in Walton County, Florida are being blamed for the death of a 70-year-old, who was found submerged not far from his travel trailer. Shares                  5 Dead After Tornado, Severe Weather Sweeps Across South   Trump Slams 'Dumb' Refugee Deal With Australia   White House: Trump Comments on Mexico 'Lighthearted'   Trump Tweets That Iran Is 'On Notice' for Firing Missile   Trump Executive Order Draft Could Curtail LGBT Rights   Netanyahu Announces New West Bank Settlement   Punxsutawney Phil Predicts More Winter   Quebec Shooting Suspect Visited Mosque Days Before Attack   Speech by Breitbart Editor Canceled as Berkeley Protesters Start Fires, Break Windows   The Staggering Amounts of Food Eaten on Super Bowl Sunday   Skipping the Super Bowl? What to Watch Instead   EU Chief Says Bloc Capable of Cutting Libya Migrant Route   DeVos Dealt Confirmation Blow by Key GOP Senators   Beyonce Dazzles in Pregnancy Photo Shoot   The Best of the Super Bowl LI Commercials Released So Far

Four people died after a tree fell on their mobile home in Alabama and a man drowned in Florida after severe weather swept across the South on Monday.

The four people who died were all in one structure in the Rehobeth, Alabama area, near the Florida border, according to Alabama's governor, Robert Bentley.

Just spoke w/ Houston Co Sheriff Donald Valenza. Confirmed 4 fatalities in one structure in Rehobeth area. Prayers for those impacted today. — Gov. Robert Bentley (@GovernorBentley) January 3, 2017

An electrical fire also struck the Rehobeth Baptist Church during the storm, causing damages to the church and surrounding buildings, according to Kris Ware from the Houston County Emergency Management Agency.

Officials said they were not sure how much structural damage the area suffered and said there was also "major flooding."

Floodwaters in across the state line in Walton County, Florida are being blamed for the death of a 70-year-old, who was found submerged not far from his travel trailer.