Drunk Canadian Pilot Almost Endangered 100 Lives After He Fainted In The Cockpit!
Drunk Canadian Pilot Almost Endangered 100 Lives After He Fainted In The Cockpit!
Drunk Canadian Pilot Almost Endangered 100 Lives After He Fainted In The Cockpit! It's not uncommon for people to show up drunk to work. But for a pilot, it's nothing less than a catastrophe! A person has to be really, really daft to even think that he can fly an aircraft inebriated. Well, a Sunwing pilot actually did prove his daftness when he fainted in the cockpit after being completely intoxicated. He was about to take the plane off the ground from the Calgary airport in western Canada when he fainted. The Mexico-bound flight was stalled from its scheduled take-off after the flight attendants found the pilot in an inebriated state and acting bizarrely before he fainted inside the cockpit. They then informed the authorities. He was escorted out of the flight and arrested. The flight that had more than 100 people on board was saved from a tragic fate, for the pilot had tested positive for more than three times the legal amount of alcohol in his system.

It's not uncommon for people to show up drunk to work. But for a pilot, it's nothing less than a catastrophe! A person has to be really, really daft to even think that he can fly an aircraft inebriated.

travel and leisure

Well, a Sunwing pilot actually did prove his daftness when he fainted in the cockpit after being completely intoxicated. He was about to take the plane off the ground from the Calgary airport in western Canada when he fainted.

canadian press

The Mexico-bound flight was stalled from its scheduled take-off after the flight attendants found the pilot in an inebriated state and acting bizarrely before he fainted inside the cockpit. They then informed the authorities. He was escorted out of the flight and arrested.

The flight that had more than 100 people on board was saved from a tragic fate, for the pilot had tested positive for more than three times the legal amount of alcohol in his system.