Twitter's controversial head of China leaves after eight months
Twitter's controversial head of China leaves after eight months
witter's manager for China, whose appointment just eight months ago sparked controversy, has announced her resignation. Kathy Chen, appointed in April as general manager for the China region, which comprises mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, made the announcement on her own Twitter account. "Now that the Twitter APAC team (Asia-Pacific team in Singapore) is working directly with Chinese advertisers, this is the right time for me to leave the company," she said. 3/12 Great China is one of our fastest growing revenue markets in Asia Pacific for Twitter today and we remain committed to this market. 4/12 We have grown our Greater China advertiser base nearly 400% over the past 2 years and we thank all of them for their support. ike other Western platforms such as YouTube, Facebook and Instagram, Twitter is inaccessible in mainland China , blocked by the communist regime's vast system of internet censorship. Unable to reach local users, Twitter has tried to persuade Chinese companies and media to open accounts to reach a global audience. Large groups such as the telecoms giant Huawei and state media have made their appearance on the platform. Chen said that over the past two years, Twitter's advertising base in the China region had grown almost 400 per cent. Her resignation comes two months after the announcement of Twitter cut nine per cent of its global workforce and as the company struggles to attract new users. uman rights activists and NGOs had taken issue with Chen's resume when she was appointed. In the 1980s and 1990s she worked as a computer engineer for the Chinese army. Dissident Hu Jia had described the appointment as a "painful betrayal". Critics were also dismayed by Chen's call on her appointment for "closer partnership" with Communist Party-backed state media. Twitter is home to a very active community of Chinese intellectuals and dissidents posting from abroad and also from within the country through the use of virtual private networks.

Twitter's manager for China, whose appointment just eight months ago sparked controversy, has announced her resignation.

Kathy Chen, appointed in April as general manager for the China region, which comprises mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, made the announcement on her own Twitter account.

"Now that the Twitter APAC team (Asia-Pacific team in Singapore) is working directly with Chinese advertisers, this is the right time for me to leave the company," she said.