Man dies as car hit by train at level crossing
Man dies as car hit by train at level crossing
man has died after a crash between a car and a train in Bedfordshire on Tuesday morning. London Midland Trains service between Bedford and Bletchley have been suspended and motorists are being told to avoid the area following the incident in Lidlington. Due to an operational incident on the service between Bedford and Bletchley all lines are blocked. More info when known. t is believed the crash occurred on the level crossing on Marston Road. According to Network Rail's website, around 36 trains and 1,200 vehicles use the crossing each day. Trains can pass through at up to 60mph. The crossing has automatic barriers which cover half of the road. A British Transport spokesman said: "Just after 10am today we were called to Marston level crossing close to Lidlington station following reports that a car had been struck by a train. "Officers attended alongside Bedfordshire Police and the East of England Ambulance service however a man, believed to be the driver of the car, was sadly pronounced dead at the scene. Motorists advised to avoid Marston Road near #Lidlington following a collision between a car and a train. Closures are in place "The car was struck by the 09.34 Bedford to Bletchley London Midland service with 11 passengers and two members of staff on board. There are no other reported injuries. "At present the man’s death is not being treated as suspicious, however officers continue to examine exactly how the car came to be on the tracks. "The Rail Accident Investigation Branch have been notified of this incident." n East of England Ambulance Service spokeswoman said: "We were called to reports of the crash on Marston Road at 9.54am this morning. "We dispatched a rapid response vehicle, ambulance crew and hazard area response team which remain on the scene." A spokesman for the fire service also confirmed on they are on the scene. A spokesman for Network Rail, which manages level crossings in Britain, said: "We are assisting emergency services with an incident at Marston level crossing, near Bedford, in which a train has collided with a car. "British Transport Police are investigating the cause of the incident."

It is believed the crash occurred on the level crossing on Marston Road. According to Network Rail's website, around 36 trains and 1,200 vehicles use the crossing each day.

Trains can pass through at up to 60mph. The crossing has automatic barriers which cover half of the road.

A British Transport spokesman said: "Just after 10am today we were called to Marston level crossing close to Lidlington station following reports that a car had been struck by a train.

"Officers attended alongside Bedfordshire Police and the East of England Ambulance service however a man, believed to be the driver of the car, was sadly pronounced dead at the scene.