Bengals' Adam Jones Arrested Following Alleged Outburst Outside Cincinnati Hotel
Bengals' Adam Jones Arrested Following Alleged Outburst Outside Cincinnati Hotel
Bengals cornerback Adam Jones —who is no stranger to running into trouble with the law —was reportedly arrested early Tuesday morning outside of a hotel in Cincinnati. According to WDTN , Jones was arrested after he allegedly beat on the front door of the Hyatt Regency Hotel while yelling and cursing and then pushed a man and poked him in the eye. It’s unclear what Jones was so upset about prior to his arrest, but the 33-year-old was booked into the Hamilton County Jail just after midnight on Tuesday as a result of his alleged outburst. In addition to the incident in question, Jones also stands accused of resisting arrest after he allegedly kicked and headbutted a police officer while refusing to be placed into a police car. Additionally, he reportedly spit on a nurse at the jail during his booking. Bengals DB Pacman Jones arrested in Cincinnati on Monday night, facing multiple charges. https://t.co/SzbM8U9dDq Jones has been charged with misdemeanor assault, disorderly conduct, and obstructing official business. He’s also facing a felony charge of harassment with a bodily substance for allegedly spitting on the nurse. He is scheduled to make a court appearance at 9 a.m. on Tuesday. Jones was infamously involved in a strip club shooting in Las Vegas back in 2007 that resulted in two people being shot. He was also charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest during an incident in 2011—he eventually pleaded guilty to the disorderly conduct charge and received probation—and he was reportedly asked to leave a casino in Indiana in 2015 after an incident with security. Jones has not yet commented on his most recent arrest.

Bengals cornerback Adam Jones—who is no stranger to running into trouble with the law—was reportedly arrested early Tuesday morning outside of a hotel in Cincinnati.

According to WDTN, Jones was arrested after he allegedly beat on the front door of the Hyatt Regency Hotel while yelling and cursing and then pushed a man and poked him in the eye. It’s unclear what Jones was so upset about prior to his arrest, but the 33-year-old was booked into the Hamilton County Jail just after midnight on Tuesday as a result of his alleged outburst.

In addition to the incident in question, Jones also stands accused of resisting arrest after he allegedly kicked and headbutted a police officer while refusing to be placed into a police car. Additionally, he reportedly spit on a nurse at the jail during his booking.

Bengals DB Pacman Jones arrested in Cincinnati on Monday night, facing multiple charges. https://t.co/SzbM8U9dDq — WDTN (@WDTN) January 3, 2017

Jones has been charged with misdemeanor assault, disorderly conduct, and obstructing official business. He’s also facing a felony charge of harassment with a bodily substance for allegedly spitting on the nurse. He is scheduled to make a court appearance at 9 a.m. on Tuesday.

Jones was infamously involved in a strip club shooting in Las Vegas back in 2007 that resulted in two people being shot. He was also charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest during an incident in 2011—he eventually pleaded guilty to the disorderly conduct charge and received probation—and he was reportedly asked to leave a casino in Indiana in 2015 after an incident with security.

Jones has not yet commented on his most recent arrest.