Wife of Istanbul terror suspect had 'no idea' he was an ISIS sympathiser
Wife of Istanbul suspect had 'no idea' he was an ISIS sympathiser


The wife of a man suspected of slaughtering revellers in an Istanbul nightclub has claimed she had 'no idea' her husband was an ISIS sympathiser.

Turkish police reportedly released a statement made by the wife, who said she only found out about the atrocity when reports emerged on television.

The suspect boarded a plane in Kyrgyzstan with his wife and children and it landed in Istanbul on November 20 last year.

They then travelled by road to Konya in central Turkey via Ankara, arriving two days later, the statement said, according to Hurriyet newspaper.

There they rented a flat, paying 1,100 Turkish Lira (£250) per month, with a three-month downpayment.

The Istanbul killer's weapon was loaded with armour-piercing bullets it has been claimed. The main suspect is pictured

Pictures taken today show the interior of the bar - days after it was turned into a bloodbath in an ISIS attack

Glasses and bottles abandoned as people fled during the attack have been cleared onto a bar at the venue

Mehmet Kocarslan, owner of Reina nightclub, attends a gathering in front of the venue today

The highly trained killer's weapon was loaded with armour-piercing bullets, creating the maximum number of casualties in the crowded Reina nightclub on New Year's Eve, according to Turkish security sources. Shocking images show the bloodyaftermath of the attack

Turkish police detained two men trying to board a flight from Istanbul earlier this afternoon

Her husband told her that they were travelling to Konya in search of job opportunities.

On December 29, he left Konya to travel by road to Istanbul, she reportedly said, adding that she only learned about the shooting when she saw it on the television. She had no idea that her husband is an ISIS sympathiser, she said.

When police released pictures of the suspect, his neighbours in Konya called a police hotline and identified him, leading investigators to the family home, police added.

Meanwhile, Turkish authorities have today detained two foreign nationals at Istanbul's main airport over suspected links to the attack.

The pair were detained on entering Ataturk International Airport and have been taken to Istanbul police headquarters for questioning, it has been reported.

No information on their nationalities was available.

It said police checked the pair's cellphones and luggage before they were taken away to Istanbul's main police headquarters.

Meanwhile the private Dogan news agency said airports and border crossings were put on high alert and that anyone resembling the wanted gunman was being stopped and questioned by police.

Friends and relatives mourn during the funeral of Lian Nasser, an 18-year-old Arab Israeli woman who was one of the victims of the attack on a night club in Istanbul

The coffin of Lian Nasser is carried during her funeral ceremony in the Arab Israeli city of Tira, north of Tel Aviv

Grieving relatives of those killed in the attack have been laying their loved-ones to rest

Loved-ones mourn at the cemetery where 18-year-old attack victim Lian Nasser has been buried

With foreigners making up the majority of those killed in the attack, families have been reclaiming the bodies of more than two dozen non-Turkish and mainly Arab victims

The government said yesterday that eight people had been detained but the number then increased to 14 after new detentions in the Anatolian city of Konya.

A manhunt for the chief suspect is intensifying today.

Police raided three different apartments in the central Turkish town of Konye today but found them to be empty, Turkish media has reported.

One of the premises was believed to have been rented by the suspect and his family, while the others housed non-Turkish citizens.

It is understood that the occupants of the other apartments may have left following the New Year's Eve attack, raising fears that they may have been used by accomplices.

The estate agent who allegedly rented the apartment to the terror suspect was detained and questioned by police, but claimed not to have been responsible for the arrangement.

A man named as the Istanbul suspect on a passport released by Turkey's state-run TRT World today came forward to say he was not involved.

It comes as horrifying new details of the advanced, special forces techniques used by the Istanbul nightclub terrorist emerged.

Grieving: The sister of Elias Wardini, a Lebanese man who was killed in the New Year's Eve Istanbul nightclub attack, mourns as she holds her brother's portrait

Relatives and friends of Elias Wardini carry his coffin during his funeral procession, in Beirut, Lebanon

The sister of Elias Wardini, centre, a Lebanese man who was killed in the New Year's Eve Istanbul nightclub attack, mourns over her brother's body

People pray next to the coffin of attack victim Mohamed Elhot during his funeral ceremony in Istanbul

The highly trained killer's weapon was loaded with armour-piercing bullets, creating the maximum number of casualties in the crowded Reina nightclub on New Year's Eve, according to Turkish security sources widely reported in local media.

He used flares to light up his targets before unleashing a hail of bullets known for their tendency to ricochet as well as penetrate barriers, creating horrific carnage in a short amount of time, the sources said.

It comes as Turkey's leading Hurriyet newspaper said the ISIS fanatic, who murdered 39 in the shooting rampage, is married with two children and that police have detained his family for questioning.

Friends and relatives of Lebanese victim Elias Wardini, who was killed in the gun attack on a nightclub in Istanbul, stand next to his coffin during the funeral in Church of Our Lady in Beirut, Lebanon

Flowers and pictures of the victims are placed at a make-shift shrine near the entrance of Reina nightclub

Police special forces patrol outisde the Reina nightclub which was attacked by a gunman

The suspect, who has still not been named, brought his wife and children to Konya in central Turkey in November 2016 to slip under the radar by posing as a family man, the Milliyet newspaper added.

Eyewitnesses said the killer carried out the operation calmly and precisely, keeping his ground and picking off his victims in a systematic manner.

His magazines had been bound together to allow him to reload rapidly, and when both were empty, he dropped them on the floor. Six were used in total, the Vatan newspaper said.

Eyewitnesses also reported that the killer used flash bombs to illuminate and disorient his targets.

A bartender who survived the attack, quoted by Hurriyet, said: 'The terrorist threw something that lit up every time he finished his magazine. It happened at least three times.'

In another sign of the murderer's professionalism, he reportedly dropped the flash bombs behind him so that he would be able to see his victims clearly without being blinded by the light, according to the Sozcu newspaper.

Abdulkadir Selvi, an influential columnist for the Hurriyet newspaper, alleged that the suspect is understood to have been trained in Syria.

Eyewitnesses said the killer carried out the operation calmly and precisely, keeping his ground and picking off his victims in a systematic manner. Mourners are pictured at a funeral for one of the victims

Footage from inside the club shows people celebrating before the gunman went on the rampage

The killer's magazines had been bound together to allow him to reload rapidly, and when both were empty, he dropped them on the floor

The fanatic's nationality remains unclear. Yesterday, police said he comes from 'Central Asia', and officials from Kyrgyzstan confirmed that they were investigating whether he was from that country.

But this morning, citing unnamed security sources, the Aydinlik newspaper claimed the suspect was from Xinjiang, an area of northeastern China known by separatists as East Turkestan.

It has also been revealed that the Iraqi-born businessman Muhammad al-Sarraf, one of the wealthiest men in Jordan, was killed in the nightclub attack.

The mogul owned 13 companies in Jordan and Iraq.

The father-of-three had been visiting Istanbul for the New Year with a colleague, Nawras Assaf, their wives and a third couple.

Assaf was also killed, and his wife is in critical condition in an intensive care unit in Jordan.

Sarraf's wife and the other Jordanian couple were also injured in the attack.