Chief Keef Returns With 'Two Zero One Seven' Mixtape
Chief Keef Returns With 'Two Zero One Seven' Mixtape
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Chief Keef Returns With 'Two Zero One Seven' Mixtape  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  To start 2017 with a bang, Chief Keef released his new mixtape on New Year's Day. This marks his first official project since his collaborative mixtape with Zaytoven, which came out last May. After having a relatively low-key 2016 musically, the "I Don't Like" rapper is hoping to rebound with this 17-track mixtape. On the production front, Keef's responsible for 11 songs while the remaining beats come from the likes of Young Chop, Lex Luger and LeekeLeek. Beyond his mixtape release, Keef recently blasted the site for posting a fake interview. Keef called out the website for being duped by an impersonator claiming to have been the 21-year-old rapper. “Fake interview N---as went from Hitting b-tches acting like me to doing interviews.... but the thing is Who ever is doing this Still sound lame as fu-k!" said Keef on Instagram. "If u gonna try to be me in a interview cut the d--k riding and sound like a Chiraqean."  Stream his new project below. 1. “So Tree” 2. “Fix That” 3. “Empty” 4. “Reefah” 5. “Falling on the Floor” 6. “Short” Feat. Tadoe 7. “Knock It Off” 8. “Hit The Lotto Kash” 9. “Check” 10. “Dope Smokes” 11. “Control” Feat. Tadoe 12. “Trying Not To Swear” 13. “Go” 14. “Telling It All” 15. “Stand Down” Feat. Tadoe 16. “Running Late” 17. “Anything Gets You Paid”  Fake interview Niggas went from Hitting bitches acting like me to doing interviews.... but the thing is Who ever is doing this Still sound lame as fuck! If u gonna try to be me in a interview cut the dick riding and sound like a Chiraqean A photo posted by Chief Keef (@chieffkeeffsossa) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

To start 2017 with a bang, Chief Keef released his new mixtape Two Zero One Seven on New Year's Day. This marks his first official project since his collaborative mixtape Camp GloTiggy with Zaytoven, which came out last May.

After having a relatively low-key 2016 musically, the "I Don't Like" rapper is hoping to rebound with this 17-track mixtape. On the production front, Keef's responsible for 11 songs while the remaining beats come from the likes of Young Chop, Lex Luger and LeekeLeek.

Beyond his mixtape release, Keef recently blasted the site Local Savage for posting a fake interview. Keef called out the website for being duped by an impersonator claiming to have been the 21-year-old rapper. “Fake interview N---as went from Hitting b-tches acting like me to doing interviews.... but the thing is Who ever is doing this Still sound lame as fu-k!" said Keef on Instagram. "If u gonna try to be me in a interview cut the d--k riding and sound like a Chiraqean."

Stream his new project Two Zero One Seven below.

1. “So Tree”

2. “Fix That”

3. “Empty”

4. “Reefah”

5. “Falling on the Floor”

6. “Short” Feat. Tadoe

7. “Knock It Off”

8. “Hit The Lotto Kash”

9. “Check”

10. “Dope Smokes”

11. “Control” Feat. Tadoe

12. “Trying Not To Swear”

13. “Go”

14. “Telling It All”

15. “Stand Down” Feat. Tadoe

16. “Running Late”

17. “Anything Gets You Paid”

