Gregg Popovich Gives Tie He Wore to Craig Sager's Funeral to Craig Sager Jr.
Gregg Popovich Gives Tie He Wore to Craig Sager's Funeral to Craig Sager Jr.
Didn't have time to see him at the funeral but met up after last night's game. He brought the tie he wore to the funeral w/ him to give me😭🙌 https://t.co/4OKYwCVVdZ Gregg Popovich , who attended Craig Sager's funeral in Georgia despite his San Antonio Spurs playing in Houston that night, gave Sager's son the tie he wore to the service. On Dec. 20, the typically reserved head coach donned a colorful tie in honor of the late TNT broadcaster. Craig Sager Jr. said he received it after the Spurs' 114-112 overtime loss to the Atlanta Hawks on New Year's Day. Popovich also wore the tie during the Atlanta game. Sager's son did not know that until he saw an article from Yahoo Sports' Dan Devine , which led him to again express his gratitude on Twitter: I came late after Falcons game &amp; didn't see that Pop actually wore his funeral tie for the game too. Now I'm really speechless. Wow https://t.co/I0CFx9lKkr While Popovich always showed disdain for midgame interviews, he respected the man asking the " inane questions ." "To talk about him being a professional in doing what he did is a tremendous understatement," Popovich said, via Gerald Bourguet of Hoops Habit , after Sager died from leukemia on Dec. 15. [Craig Sager Jr.] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Gregg Popovich, who attended Craig Sager's funeral in Georgia despite his San Antonio Spurs playing in Houston that night, gave Sager's son the tie he wore to the service.

On Dec. 20, the typically reserved head coach donned a colorful tie in honor of the late TNT broadcaster. Craig Sager Jr. said he received it after the Spurs' 114-112 overtime loss to the Atlanta Hawks on New Year's Day.

Popovich also wore the tie during the Atlanta game. Sager's son did not know that until he saw an article from Yahoo Sports' Dan Devine, which led him to again express his gratitude on Twitter:

While Popovich always showed disdain for midgame interviews, he respected the man asking the "inane questions."

"To talk about him being a professional in doing what he did is a tremendous understatement," Popovich said, via Gerald Bourguet of Hoops Habit, after Sager died from leukemia on Dec. 15.

[Craig Sager Jr.]