2-Year-Old Saves Twin Brother From Fallen Dresser in Incredible Moment Caught on Camera
2-Year-Old Saves Twin Brother From Fallen Dresser in Incredible Moment Caught on Camera


Chanel Lewis, 20, allegedly admitted to attacking Karina Vetrano, 30, who was killed in August 2016 during a run in Queens in New York City.

The New England Patriots quarterback suspected that someone stole his Super Bowl winning game jersey after the team's record-breaking victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI on Sunday.

Chris Garguilo of Schenectady, New York, asked his longtime girlfriend to marry him in a previously recorded television commercial that aired during Super Bowl LI.

The president's first address to U.S. troops was made at MacDill Air Force Base.

Dramatic video shows police officers chasing a suspect, who pulls what appears to be a weapon on the officers. Instead of using deadly force, they deployed a K-9 unit to take down the suspect.

"GMA" caught up with the "Top Chef" alum at his NYC restaurant Talde for lunch.

Kayli Shoff shares her message to other parents after one of her 2-year-old twin sons became stuck under a fallen dresser and his sibling lifted the dresser to rescue him.

A 2-year-old boy was rescued from a fallen dresser by his twin brother in an incredible moment caught on a security camera.

The boys, Bowdy and Brock Shoff, were playing on the dresser when it tipped over, pinning Brock underneath. The heart-stopping video shows Bowdy trying to push the heavy furniture from both sides, but it doesn't move.

He tries to lift it, but that doesn't work. Bowdy then tries to push the dresser again and manages to move it, freeing his brother.

Both boys were uninjured.

Video Shows 9-Year-Old Saving Baby Brother as He Falls Off Changing Table

Ikea Recalls 29 Million Dressers and Chests After 6 Children Crushed to Death

The Orem, Utah, parents didn't realize their son's incredible feat until they reviewed the surveillance video.

The twins' mother, Kayli Shoff, told ABC News that once she saw the video her "heart sank."

She said Bowdy -- outgoing and strong -- was smart by assessing the situation in the moment.

"He said, 'What do I need to do to save my brother? My brother's in pain, he's struggling. I've got to help him,'" she said. "He sat there for about 8 or 10 seconds and just looked at him, and went to try to lift it up. Wasn't working that way, pushed with all of his might -- and it was like butter, it was smooth, it just pushed right off of him."

View gallery Parents of 2-Year-Old Who Saved Twin Brother From Fallen Dresser Defend Video's Authenticity (AB …

Kayli Shoff said Bowdy might not realize the enormity of his actions. She said she and her husband told Bowdy, "'We're so proud of you, Bowdy, you saved your brother.' And he just told us that he wanted to watch his show."

While the boys were uninjured, she said she thinks the family was very close to a bad outcome. "I think that we were blessed," she said, "It could have been bad."

Kayli Shoff said her message to other parents is, "You can't baby-proof your house 100 percent. ... So take one small step -- it'll take you 5 to 10 minutes -- and just bolt your dressers down, bolt your bookshelves down."

She said she bolted the dresser to the wall after watching the video.

"It was such an easy thing for me that I could have done to prevent what happened to my children," she said.

The twins' father, Rick Shoff, wrote on Facebook on Sunday, "we are so grateful for the bond that these twin brothers share. We know Bowdy was not alone in moving the dresser off of Brock. And feel blessed that he is ok. Please make sure all your dressers are bolted and secured to the wall."

The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said it is investigating the incident.

"One toddler was miraculously able to save his brother by pushing the dresser off of him. Not all children are that lucky," a CPSC spokesperson said in a statement. "Tragically, one child dies every two weeks and a child is injured every 30 minutes when TVs or furniture tip over in the U.S. The current voluntary safety standard needs to be strengthened so that furniture is more inherently stable. We urge parents and caregivers to anchor their dressers, bookcases and televisions to the wall today to prevent tipovers. Anchoring is simple, low cost and only takes 5 minutes."

ABC News' Rachel Humphries contributed to this report.