Wale Debuts 'Running Back' With Lil Wayne on ESPN's 'First Take,' Releases the Phil Ade-Featuring 'Smile'
Wale Debuts 'Running Back' With Lil Wayne on ESPN's 'First Take,' Releases the Phil Ade-Featuring 'Smile'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Wale Debuts 'Running Back' With Lil Wayne on ESPN's 'First Take,' Releases the Phil Ade-Featuring 'Smile'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Since December, Wale has released several noteworthy new tracks, including " Groundhog Day ," " Heisman Watch " and "Black Is Gold." To keep the momentum for his forthcoming album going, he performed "Running Back," the latest advance single from the project, alongside Lil Wayne on ESPN's Known for being an avid sports fan, Wale adroitly flips the football term to both call out women with "tummy tucks" and flash his "money stacks." Lil Wayne has also been keeping busy with his Young Money Sports agency, recently signing LSU linebacker Duke Riley and Oklahoma wide receiver Dede Westbrook .  Wale also released an uplifting new number featuring Phil Ade, called "Smile." Check out the full performance and listen to his new tracks below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Since December, Wale has released several noteworthy new tracks, including "Groundhog Day," "Heisman Watch" and "Black Is Gold." To keep the momentum for his forthcoming album Shine going, he performed "Running Back," the latest advance single from the project, alongside Lil Wayne on ESPN's First Take.

Known for being an avid sports fan, Wale adroitly flips the football term to both call out women with "tummy tucks" and flash his "money stacks." Lil Wayne has also been keeping busy with his Young Money Sports agency, recently signing LSU linebacker Duke Riley and Oklahoma wide receiver Dede Westbrook.

Wale also released an uplifting new number featuring Phil Ade, called "Smile." Check out the full performance and listen to his new tracks below.