Did Kim Kardashian hint at a divorce before her long-awaited return to Instagram?
Did Kim Kardashian hint at a divorce before her long-awaited return to Instagram?
After months of silence, Kim Kardashian West 's millions of social media followers have a lot to wrap their heads around. Kardashian West posted her first Instagram since her fateful trip to Paris Fashion Week in October and may have also indicated more changes in her life. The reality star turned mogul temporarily removed her married name from her social media accounts before quickly changing it back. SEE ALSO: From Kimye vs. Taylor to Kimye vs. Bette Midler: The best celebrity feuds of 2016 Kardashian West's return began when debuted a new website/app design and adorable home video of her husband and two children this morning amid rumors that her marriage to Kanye West is on the rocks. It seemed like an attempt to relay the message that business is back to usual, and after a rough patch in their personal lives, Kimye remain and strong as ever. But then she briefly changed her display names on Instagram and Twitter from Kim Kardashian West to simply kimkardashian and Kim, respectively. I am going to cry  RT:🚨 NATIONAL EMERGENCY KIM KARDASHIAN REMOVED “WEST” FROM HER TWITTER AND INSTA HANDLES 🚨 pic.twitter.com/XE0oLgQLMn — S•A•H (@amyharvard_) January 3, 2017 Naturally, fans lost their damn minds. Could that sweet video simply be a goodbye to a once happy marriage irrevocably derailed? It should also be noted that her social media handles have always been @KimKardashian, and that never changed even after she adopted her husband's last name professionally. After the brief shakeup, she added her married name back to display names. Her new app/website design also features the header "KKW." And then she posted her first Instagram since the robbery in Paris, a family portrait including West and their two children, Saint and North in carefully coordinated black and white outfits. The caption merely reads, "family." family A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on West also recently tweeted a family portrait taken at Kris Jenner's Christmas Eve party, which he deleted and reposted for some reason. West reportedly was absent for most of the party and checked out a screening of alone. Right now, it's unclear what these klues all mean. The Kardashian women historically remain tight with exes who they've started families with even if the romantic relationship ends. Khloe stuck around for Lamar Odom after their breakup and his overdose, and postponing their divorce to remain in charge of his medical care. Scott Disick has remained a big part of Kardashian family and recent took a ski trip with Kourtney. Kris and Caitlyn Jenner seem to have made peace after the divorce and posed together for the holidays. So this could all be a message that, even if Kimye is no more, they're committed to staying a family. Whatever's happening, we're glad you're back, Kim. Selfies aren't the same without you. BONUS: Doug the Pug recreates Kim Kardashian's selfies

After months of silence, Kim Kardashian West's millions of social media followers have a lot to wrap their heads around.

Kardashian West posted her first Instagram since her fateful trip to Paris Fashion Week in October and may have also indicated more changes in her life. The reality star turned mogul temporarily removed her married name from her social media accounts before quickly changing it back.

Kardashian West's return began when debuted a new website/app design and adorable home video of her husband and two children this morning amid rumors that her marriage to Kanye West is on the rocks. It seemed like an attempt to relay the message that business is back to usual, and after a rough patch in their personal lives, Kimye remain and strong as ever.

But then she briefly changed her display names on Instagram and Twitter from Kim Kardashian West to simply kimkardashian and Kim, respectively.

I am going to cry RT:🚨 NATIONAL EMERGENCY KIM KARDASHIAN REMOVED “WEST” FROM HER TWITTER AND INSTA HANDLES 🚨pic.twitter.com/XE0oLgQLMn — S•A•H (@amyharvard_) January 3, 2017

Naturally, fans lost their damn minds. Could that sweet video simply be a goodbye to a once happy marriage irrevocably derailed?

It should also be noted that her social media handles have always been @KimKardashian, and that never changed even after she adopted her husband's last name professionally. After the brief shakeup, she added her married name back to display names. Her new app/website design also features the header "KKW."

And then she posted her first Instagram since the robbery in Paris, a family portrait including West and their two children, Saint and North in carefully coordinated black and white outfits. The caption merely reads, "family."

family A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Jan 3, 2017 at 10:56am PST

West also recently tweeted a family portrait taken at Kris Jenner's Christmas Eve party, which he deleted and reposted for some reason. West reportedly was absent for most of the party and checked out a screening of Moana alone.

Right now, it's unclear what these klues all mean.

The Kardashian women historically remain tight with exes who they've started families with even if the romantic relationship ends. Khloe stuck around for Lamar Odom after their breakup and his overdose, and postponing their divorce to remain in charge of his medical care. Scott Disick has remained a big part of Kardashian family and recent took a ski trip with Kourtney. Kris and Caitlyn Jenner seem to have made peace after the divorce and posed together for the holidays.

So this could all be a message that, even if Kimye is no more, they're committed to staying a family. Whatever's happening, we're glad you're back, Kim. Selfies aren't the same without you.