Janet Jackson, 50, gives birth to a boy, Eissa Al Mana
Janet Jackson, 50, gives birth to a boy, Eissa Al Mana - BBC News


Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Janet Jackson and her husband, Wissam al-Mana

Singer Janet Jackson has at the age of 50 given birth to her first child, a baby boy, her publicist has confirmed.

A statement said the musician and her Qatari businessman husband, Wissam Al Mana, were "thrilled" to welcome the infant, Eissa Al Mana.

"Janet had a stress-free healthy delivery and is resting comfortably," the publicist added.

Speculation about her pregnancy surfaced last April when she postponed her Unbreakable tour.

She posted a video on Twitter at the time in which she told fans that she was postponing the tour because "there's been a sudden change".

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Janet Jackson - seen here performing in London in 2011 - is far from the only famous face to give birth later in life

"I thought it was important that you be the first to know," she said, adding: "Please, if you can try and understand that it's important that I do this now."

She said she wanted to focus on planning a family with her husband, whom she wed in 2012.

Jackson had earlier been spotted in London shopping for baby essentials.

Image copyright Janet Jackson/@Twitter Image caption Janet Jackson announced in April she was delaying her world tour to plan a family

Older parents with young kids

The 300-year-old fertility statistics still in use today

Babies born to women aged 45 and over rise by a third

Profile: Janet Jackson

Image copyright PA

Janet Damita Jo Jackson was born on 16 May 1966 in Gary, Indiana

She is the youngest of nine children and sister of late pop icon Michael Jackson

She released her first album, Janet Jackson, in 1982

She has a total of 11 albums with the most recent, Unbreakable, released in 2015

She is a seven-time Grammy award winner

She began her career with the family's reality TV series The Jacksons in 1976 and has since appeared in several movies such as Tyler Perry's Why Did I Get Married

The singer married her third husband, Qatari billionaire Wissam al-Mana, in 2012

Her two previous marriages were a year-long union with soul singer James DeBarge in the mid-1980s, and to dancer Rene Elizondo Jr from 1991-2000

Janet Jackson: The stories behind the songs

Janet Jackson is far from the only famous face to give birth later in life.

Oscar-winning Halle Berry had her second child at 47, three years ago, and John Travolta's wife Kelly Preston gave birth to her third child at 48.

Geena Davis - best known for her role in Thelma and Louise - became a mother later in life. Her first child, a girl, arrived when she was 46, followed two years later by twin boys.

But these mothers - and Jackson - are all positively young when compared to the world's oldest new mothers.

There are at least three women in India who claimed to have given birth when at least two decades older than the pop singer.