Gabi Garcia Pummels 49-Year-Old Pro Wrestler in Sideshow at Rizin FF 4
Gabi Garcia Pummels 49-Year-Old Pro Wrestler in Sideshow at Rizin FF 4
A photo posted by Joe Rogan (@ joerogan ) There's no denying Rizin's bout between Gabi Garcia and 49-year-old pro wrestler  was an absolute circus, but it was just what the doctor ordered. Garcia was 18 years younger, eight inches taller and nearly 40 pounds heavier than her opponent. Not to mention she had actual fighting credentials. , in total pro wrestling fashion, hit the ropes on the outset of the fight. Garcia looked somewhat confused. By the time hit the ropes for a third time and turned for the fourth Garcia simply had enough. She snatched her up and started hammering her with punches and knees. There was nothing masterful or technical about it. It was just a larger, stronger woman pummeling a grandmother. WATCH: Jazzy 'Alpha Female' Gabert call out Gabi Garcia at #RizinFF https://t.co/9mmQu6ynOJ Foll was still involved in the mayhem as was 52-year-old former pro wrestler and politician  . It was a scene to be sure. Confusion abounded while Cyborg laughed at the nonsense, but luckily no further grandmothers were harmed in the making of Garcia's next fight. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

There's no denying Rizin's bout between Gabi Garcia and 49-year-old pro wrestler Yumiko Hotta was an absolute circus, but it was just what the doctor ordered.

Garcia was 18 years younger, eight inches taller and nearly 40 pounds heavier than her opponent. Not to mention she had actual fighting credentials.

Hotta, in total pro wrestling fashion, hit the ropes on the outset of the fight. Garcia looked somewhat confused. By the time Hotta hit the ropes for a third time and turned for the fourth Garcia simply had enough. She snatched her up and started hammering her with punches and knees.

There was nothing masterful or technical about it. It was just a larger, stronger woman pummeling a grandmother.

Follwing the bout, another pro wrestler got involved. Jazzy "Alpha Female" Gabert grabbed the mic and got in Garcia's face. It got tense enough that Cris Cyborg Justino had to hold Garcia back.

Hotta was still involved in the mayhem as was 52-year-old former pro wrestler and politician Shinobu Kandori. It was a scene to be sure.

Confusion abounded while Cyborg laughed at the nonsense, but luckily no further grandmothers were harmed in the making of Garcia's next fight.