Hrithik's Subtle Hint About ZNMD's Sequel, Salman-Akshay-KJo's Collaboration & More From Ent!
Hrithik's Subtle Hint About ZNMD's Sequel, Salman-Akshay-KJo's Collaboration & More From Ent!
Hrithik's Subtle Hint About ZNMD's Sequel, Salman-Akshay-KJo's Collaboration & More From Ent! 1. Evicted Bigg Boss Contestant Gaurav Chopra Misses Friend Bani J, Tweets A Sweet Message Inside the house, Gaurav was closest to Bani and it was evident that his elimination deeply saddened and disappointed her. Even though their friendship inside the house had hit rough patches many times, nothing could strain the bond that they started sharing in the house. Even when Gaurav is back to the real world, he is sorely missing Bani. He took to Twitter to write a very emotional yet happy note about Bani. Just saw this and .... ..... Yes these are mine .. I'm there at least in spirit with her.. #support  #nomatterwhat  pic.twitter.com/mpoTHxj8TW 2.Hrithik Roshan Subtly Confirmed The Sequel Of ZNMD But The Wait Looks Really Tough! Talking to Hindustan Times, Hrithik was asked to comment on the sequel, to which he replied, "I am aware of that, but not many film-makers can make such movies. So, I have to call Zoya once more, and say, ‘Please write something, and if you think I am good enough, please cast me in your film (smiles)’. I guess I will have to beg her. But I think it [the sequel] will happen maybe three to four years from now." 3. Bollywood Mourns The Death Of Film Producer Abis Rizvi, Who Lost His Life In Istanbul Attack Rizvi, who was very close to Naved and Javed Jaffrey, Madhur Bhandarkar and many from the fraternity were deeply saddened by this news. My childhood buddy #AbisRizvi who was more than a brother was killed last nght in #istanbulattack Condolences to the family.We will miss him pic.twitter.com/egt5YWHBKg 4.The News Of Akshay, Salman & KJo Collaborating For A Film Is Making Cinema Lovers Jump With Joy! Coproducing with Salman! Starring Akshay Kumar!! Releases 2018 directed by Anurag Singh! A photo posted by Karan Johar (@karanjohar) on Jan 2, 2017 at 8:34am PST   Karan Johar, Salman Khan and Akshay Kumar announced on Twitter that the three are collaborating on a special film that will release in 2018. Without giving away too many details, all three of them posted on Twitter about this 'special project'. A TOI report quoted Salman saying, "This is the perfect announcement to make in the New Year. I'm happy to collaborate with my friend Akshay, who has grown immensely as an actor. It will also be our first co-production with Karan. I am truly excited about the three of us coming together."

1. Evicted Bigg Boss Contestant Gaurav Chopra Misses Friend Bani J, Tweets A Sweet Message

Colors

Inside the house, Gaurav was closest to Bani and it was evident that his elimination deeply saddened and disappointed her. Even though their friendship inside the house had hit rough patches many times, nothing could strain the bond that they started sharing in the house. Even when Gaurav is back to the real world, he is sorely missing Bani. He took to Twitter to write a very emotional yet happy note about Bani.

Just saw this and .... .....

Yes these are mine ..

I'm there at least in spirit with her..#support #nomatterwhat pic.twitter.com/mpoTHxj8TW — gaurav chopra (@gauravchopraa) January 2, 2017

2.Hrithik Roshan Subtly Confirmed The Sequel Of ZNMD But The Wait Looks Really Tough!

Twitter

Talking to Hindustan Times, Hrithik was asked to comment on the sequel, to which he replied, "I am aware of that, but not many film-makers can make such movies. So, I have to call Zoya once more, and say, ‘Please write something, and if you think I am good enough, please cast me in your film (smiles)’. I guess I will have to beg her. But I think it [the sequel] will happen maybe three to four years from now."

3. Bollywood Mourns The Death Of Film Producer Abis Rizvi, Who Lost His Life In Istanbul Attack

Twitter

Rizvi, who was very close to Naved and Javed Jaffrey, Madhur Bhandarkar and many from the fraternity were deeply saddened by this news.

My childhood buddy #AbisRizvi who was more than a brother was killed last nght in #istanbulattack Condolences to the family.We will miss him pic.twitter.com/egt5YWHBKg — Naved Jafri (@NavedJafri_BOO) January 1, 2017

4.The News Of Akshay, Salman & KJo Collaborating For A Film Is Making Cinema Lovers Jump With Joy!

Coproducing with Salman! Starring Akshay Kumar!! Releases 2018 directed by Anurag Singh! A photo posted by Karan Johar (@karanjohar) on Jan 2, 2017 at 8:34am PST

Karan Johar, Salman Khan and Akshay Kumar announced on Twitter that the three are collaborating on a special film that will release in 2018. Without giving away too many details, all three of them posted on Twitter about this 'special project'.

A TOI report quoted Salman saying,

"This is the perfect announcement to make in the New Year. I'm happy to collaborate with my friend Akshay, who has grown immensely as an actor. It will also be our first co-production with Karan. I am truly excited about the three of us coming together."



5. Hrithik Requested Twinkle To Make A Film For Him & What Followed Was An Adorable Twitter Banter!

Twinkle took to Twitter to announce her first film as a producer on Twitter and people from the film fraternity couldn't help but praise and congratulate her. Among many congratulatory messages was one tweet that Twinkle couldn't ignore. Congratulating his 'neighbor' Twinkle Khanna, Hrithik Roshan posted a sweet message for her along with a sweet request.

@mrsfunnybones @akshaykumar congrats dear neighbour. looking forward to this! (Write a 2 hero film next) — Hrithik Roshan (@iHrithik) January 1, 2017

Mrs Funnybones replied,

Haha! Thank you - I wish I was that #Kaabil my friend :) https://t.co/14xpCHaNDV — Twinkle Khanna (@mrsfunnybones) January 2, 2017