Janet Jackson Welcomes 1st Baby at 50
Janet Jackson Welcomes 1st Baby at 50
Shares                Janet Jackson is a mom! The 50-year-old pop icon welcomed a son with her husband, Wissam Al Mana, her representative confirmed.     “Janet Jackson and husband, Wissam Al Mana, are thrilled to welcome their new son, Eissa Al Mana, into the world,” her rep told ABC News. “Janet had a stress-free healthy delivery and is resting comfortably. No further details are available at this time.” After much speculation, the singer finally confirmed she was expecting back in October. “We thank God for our blessing,” Jackson told People in 2016. The pregnancy news came months after she postponed her “Unbreakable” world tour that year. She explained in a Facebook video titled “A message from Janet...” in April that she and Al Mana were “planning our family,” though she didn’t specify that she was pregnant at the time. Jackson and Al Mana married in 2012.  People was the first to report the birth. After the birth was announced, members of Jackson's family congratulated her on social media. Sister La Toya Jackson took to Twitter.  How exciting! @JanetJackson , Jan and Wissam just gave birth to a beautiful baby boy!!! Congratulations!!! pic.twitter.com/X8ScYnv09I  Brother Jermaine Jackson posted on Instagram .   Congratulations to my baby sister Janet and Wissam! @janetjackson #muchlove #bigkiss #mynephew #jermainejackson A photo posted by Jermaine Jackson (@officialjermainejackson) on Jan 3, 2017 at 6:44pm PST  Jackson's father Joe Jackson congratulated his youngest daughter on his website , where he also posted pictures of the two of them over the years. "Congratulations to my daughter Janet Jackson on the birth of my Grandson," he wrote in his post. "Making me a grandfather again! Wishing you all the love and happiness a father could wish a daughter." Shares                  Janet Jackson Welcomes 1st Baby at 50   'I Hope She Felt Love': Whitney Houston Remembered 5 Years After Her Death   Oscar-Nominated Director's Provocative Message for Trump   Justin Timberlake, John Legend to Sing at the Oscars   Ryan Gosling Was Prepared to 'Defend' Oscar-Nominated 'La La Land'   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others   'LEGO Batman' Is Impossible Not to Enjoy   Museum Shuts Down Shia LaBeouf's Protest Project Over 'Safety Hazards'   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Makes Her Mark on Fashion World   'Fifty Shades Darker' Lacks Chemistry, Pretends to Have Meaningful Plot   'The Hills' Star Whitney Port Expecting Her 1st Child   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   6 Killed as Strong Quake Strikes Southern Philippines   Policeman Killed During Anti-Government Protests in Baghdad   Obama Hires Agency for Speaking Gigs, Lawyers for Book Deals

Janet Jackson is a mom!

The 50-year-old pop icon welcomed a son with her husband, Wissam Al Mana, her representative confirmed.

“Janet Jackson and husband, Wissam Al Mana, are thrilled to welcome their new son, Eissa Al Mana, into the world,” her rep told ABC News. “Janet had a stress-free healthy delivery and is resting comfortably. No further details are available at this time.”

After much speculation, the singer finally confirmed she was expecting back in October.

“We thank God for our blessing,” Jackson told People in 2016.

The pregnancy news came months after she postponed her “Unbreakable” world tour that year. She explained in a Facebook video titled “A message from Janet...” in April that she and Al Mana were “planning our family,” though she didn’t specify that she was pregnant at the time.

Jackson and Al Mana married in 2012.

People was the first to report the birth.

After the birth was announced, members of Jackson's family congratulated her on social media.

Sister La Toya Jackson took to Twitter.

How exciting! @JanetJackson, Jan and Wissam just gave birth to a beautiful baby boy!!!

Congratulations!!! pic.twitter.com/X8ScYnv09I — La Toya Jackson (@latoyajackson) January 4, 2017

Brother Jermaine Jackson posted on Instagram.

Congratulations to my baby sister Janet and Wissam! @janetjackson #muchlove #bigkiss #mynephew #jermainejackson A photo posted by Jermaine Jackson (@officialjermainejackson) on Jan 3, 2017 at 6:44pm PST

Jackson's father Joe Jackson congratulated his youngest daughter on his website, where he also posted pictures of the two of them over the years.

"Congratulations to my daughter Janet Jackson on the birth of my Grandson," he wrote in his post. "Making me a grandfather again! Wishing you all the love and happiness a father could wish a daughter."