German commandos arrest man suspected of aiding Christmas Market killer Anis Amri
BREAKING NEWS: Man arrested for 'aiding Anis Amri' 


Anis Amri killed 12 when he drove a lorry into a Christmas Market in Berlin

Elite German police commandos stormed a refugee home in Berlin on Tuesday evening to seize a man said to be a supporter of Christmas market truck killer Anis Amri.

Units of the SAS trained GSG9 and the SEK anti-terrorist police swooped on the home in the Spandau district of the capital shortly before 9.00pm.

A Tunisian man, aged 26, suspected of aiding Amri on his Isis-backed murder mission was seized on the grounds that 'he knew of the attack plans and possibly helped Anis Amri,' according to prosecutors.

They said he had known Amri since the end of 2015 and was believed to have remained in contact with him 'shortly before the attack.'

Another individual, possibly a former roomate of Amri's, was arrested at an apartment elsewhere in the city. Again, it is suspected he knew of the attack plans and may have aided Amri in the hours and days before he drove the hijacked lorry into the crowd at the market on December 19.

Twelve people were killed and 48 injured in the attack. Amri, 24, fled to Italy where he was shot dead by police at a routine roadblock on December 23.

A memorial to the victims of the massacre in Berlin, where 12 people were killed by terrorist Anis Amri

Boxes of documents were taken away from the refugee home in the city following the raid. German intelligence and security forces have gone into overdrive to round up the terror cell which underwrote Amri's operation and prevent it from carrying out further carnage.

A Tunisian man arrested by police special forces a week ago in connection with the market attack has since been released.

The frenetic police activity comes as Germany seeks ways to destory terrorist structures put in place by bogus refugees who took advantage of the country's open door policy towards migrants to infiltrate themselves in society.