Amazon India Starts Allowing Individuals To Buy & Sell Used Goods Online
Amazon India Starts Allowing Individuals To Buy & Sell Used Goods Online
Amazon India Starts Allowing Individuals To Buy & Sell Used Goods Online Through its Sell As Individual peer-to-peer program, Amazon India is facilitating non-traders, non-sellers (in the traditional sense), common people who avail of the ecommerce giant’s services, to buy and sell used goods.

Amazon India has started a pilot project in Bangalore which allows common individuals to buy and sell used or second hand products through the popular ecommerce portal.

Through its Sell As Individual peer-to-peer program, Amazon India is facilitating non-traders, non-sellers (in the traditional sense), common people who avail of the ecommerce giant’s services, to buy and sell used goods.

Through the pilot project launched in Bangalore only for now, residents living within the city premises are assured of doorstep pickup, packing and delivery of products. If you’re a seller, not only will you get the asking price of a product from the buyer, but Amazon will pay you Rs 10 on sales up to Rs 1000, Rs 50 on sales up to Rs 5000, and Rs 100 on sales over Rs 5000.

To further simplify the selling process on its ecommerce platform, Amazon India has made it really simple for people to list items on its website, suggest likely prices to sell used products at (based on intelligent recommendation engines), and expedite the process to fasten the process.

Through this entire process, we wonder how Amazon will protect the system from abuse and deceitful transactions, and ensure a minimum quality standard. Maybe the company’s assigned courier pickup representative will personally verify the product’s authenticity at the doorstep, or maybe there’s another process. Products returned by buyers are delivered back to sellers within a couple of days at no extra cost, at this point in time.

This is an interesting development from Amazon India which had already launched its used books resell service back in August 2016, and this Sell As Individual program adds to Amazon India’s signal of intent to boost sales of used goods through its platform. This move should worry the likes of eBay, Quickr and OLX which currently dominates the second hand, used goods sales market in India.

With inputs from Economic Times