Watch Sia's Lyric Video for 'Lion' Theme 'Never Give Up'
Watch Sia's Lyric Video for 'Lion' Theme 'Never Give Up' 
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Watch Sia's Lyric Video for 'Lion' Theme 'Never Give Up'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  comes roaring back with “Never Give Up,” the theme for the Garth Davis-helmed feature film . The Australian singer and songwriter shared the lyric video overnight for her powerful and uplifting -produced number.  The new clip follows a pair of young Sia mini-mes with their faces blacked-out and sporting worn-out clothes. They embrace at an eerily quiet train station before making a break for it. “And I won't let you get me down/I'll keep gettin' up when I hit the ground/Oh, never give up, no, never give up no, no, oh/I won't let you get me down,” sings Sia (the lyrics are handily splashed around the station). Kicking off the new year w/ Sia's lyric video for Never Give Up from @LionMovie ! https://t.co/847ZAPvXVs  https://t.co/8wmm4S4gd9 -Team Sia stars Dev Patel ( ) and tells the story of a young man in search of his family after being separated from them as a child in India. The film hit theaters last November. Watch the lyric clip below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Sia comes roaring back with “Never Give Up,” the theme for the Garth Davis-helmed feature film Lion.

The Australian singer and songwriter shared the lyric video overnight for her powerful and uplifting Greg Kursten-produced number.

The new clip follows a pair of young Sia mini-mes with their faces blacked-out and sporting worn-out clothes. They embrace at an eerily quiet train station before making a break for it. “And I won't let you get me down/I'll keep gettin' up when I hit the ground/Oh, never give up, no, never give up no, no, oh/I won't let you get me down,” sings Sia (the lyrics are handily splashed around the station).

Kicking off the new year w/ Sia's lyric video for Never Give Up from @LionMovie! https://t.co/847ZAPvXVs https://t.co/8wmm4S4gd9 -Team Sia — sia (@Sia) January 3, 2017

Lion stars Dev Patel (Slumdog Millionaire) and tells the story of a young man in search of his family after being separated from them as a child in India. The film hit theaters last November.

Watch the lyric clip below.