7 Famous People Share Their Wisdom On The Art Of Happiness
7 Famous People Share Their Wisdom On The Art Of Happiness
7 Famous People Share Their Wisdom On The Art Of Happiness

It's hard to be happy yourself, let alone spread happiness among people around you when you look at what the world has come to. Amidst the slew of TV commercials on products that promise ‘happiness’, to tragic events like the passing away of legendary pop star George Michael or to the string of terrorist attacks that have taken place across the globe last year, finding positivity on the outside maybe an oddity.

combiboilersleeds.com

There are, however, those that believe in holding onto ideals that act as a pillar to help them withstand any adversity in their lives. Here are some personalities and their beliefs that can inspire you to become a little healthier or happier this year.

Live life king-size

pinterest.com

Very few people live life the way it should be better than Robert Downey Jr. His wit, sass, charm and arrogance make him almost the ‘perfect' guy in every sense of the word. Despite the fact that his addiction to cocaine and heroine has had him in court-ordered rehab twice, Robert believes in living the high-life. In his words "listen, smile, agree. Then do whatever the fuck you were going to do anyway".

Hold onto your passion whatever the odds

indiaopines.com

From being born into a family of agricultural labourers; to defying the stigma of taking up a masculine sport after being homemaker and a mother of two; to becoming the first Indian female boxer; to being the only female boxer to win 6 consecutive medals in a row, Mary Kom is reason enough to hold onto whatever it is that makes you tick day in and day out. What’s even more inspiring is that she did without any support, any opportunities, and any sponsors for most of her career despite the odds.

Try and find love that will see you through the eye of any storm

abcnews.go.com

It’s a romantic notion nowadays, but true love is worth hanging on to, like David Beckham and Victoria Beckham have since 1998, the year they got together. They’ve stuck it out through thick and thin, since and through all the allegations the media inflicted on them; including the recent allegation raised against them by the nanny in a Sunday newspaper, News of the World, which the couple have sought an injunction against.

Let your style be a statement of the person inside

pcwallart.com

Your style should be as much a reflection of your personality, like your words. And very few embody their identity through the outfits they dawn, like Lady Gaga. From her crazy bodysuits, outlandish hairdos, to her infamous meat dress moment in her early days as a pop princess, to her more toned down avatar off late, she claims to have donned outfits that made sense to her regardless of what people thought of them. In her words, she’s always held that “you have to be unique, and different, and shine in your way". Hold on to this belief for yourself.

Get into a bromosexual relationship

yahoo.com

Historically gay and straight men were always portrayed as averse to each other; more so because of a conservative, traditional mindset than anything. Its perception is that of a bond that is either hostile or uncomfortable in nature. Popular talk show radio host Andy Cohen sets the record straight by stating that straight men can be ‘ultimate wingmen'. He highlights how his kinship with his heterosexual pal John Mayer is an asset when hanging out in places such as a gay bar. Straight and gay men bring to the table a different perspective to each other that can even be healing at times.

Get rid of excess baggage

boingboing.net

One of the reasons why clutter has a negative effect on our mental capacity is because it adds to the number of things we need to process both visually and cognitively, increasing the load on your brain and eventually causing fatigue. Former tech entrepreneur, venture capitalist, and financial pundit, James Altucher who believes in practising what he preaches opted to find happiness by living like a minimalist when he set out to cut down his worldly possessions to a mere 15 items in a carry-bag along with $4000 in $2 bills. Now there's a good bit of motivation you need to declutter your life.

Spread love to receive love

documentarytube.com

The universal law suggests that you are bound to receive whatever you put out there in the universe. And spreading love is understated, yet the need of the hour. Mother Teresa summed it up the best when she said, “Being unwanted, unloved, uncared for, forgotten by everybody, I think that is a much greater hunger, a much greater poverty than the person who has nothing to eat”. You don’t need to overthink or go overboard in accomplishing this endeavour, however. She’s a firm believer in the thought “Love begins at home, and it is not how much we do…but how much love we put in that action”.