Is this mysterious rumbling coming from Metro? Listen for yourself

Call it “The Case of the Mysterious Petworth Rumble.” This week, we wrote about Petworth residents who live close to Metro’s Green and Yellow lines who say they’ve increasingly been subjected to rumbles reverberating inside their homes. They believe the rumbles are coming from Metro — particularly, Metro’s new fleet of stainless steel 7000-series rail cars . And they’re worried the vibrations might cause permanent damage to their century-old houses.   Metro officials say they’re investigating the issue, but so far, their engineers have found the vibrations to be “negligible.” The agency has hired outside experts, though they’re not confirming that the vibrations are coming from Metro trains. Then we went to the home of one of those concerned residents, David Solimini, to experience exactly how the rumble sounds and feels. And we recorded it, so now you can experience it for yourself. (You can also hear Solimini perform his own rendition of the rumble: “I think to adequately do the impression of the sound, you need to be James Earl Jones,” he says.) Are the rumbles as loud as you expected? Have you heard a similar deep reverberation in your home? Post your reaction in the comments.



Metro officials are currently investigating vibrations close to the Green and Yellow lines in Petworth that have grown more intense since last summer. So far, they say the vibrations are “negligible.” (Photo by Michael S. Williamson/The Washington Post)

Call it “The Case of the Mysterious Petworth Rumble.”

This week, we wrote about Petworth residents who live close to Metro’s Green and Yellow lines who say they’ve increasingly been subjected to rumbles reverberating inside their homes.

They believe the rumbles are coming from Metro — particularly, Metro’s new fleet of stainless steel 7000-series rail cars. And they’re worried the vibrations might cause permanent damage to their century-old houses.

[What’s that mysterious rumble? Petworth residents eye Metro’s new trains as cause of disruption]

Metro officials say they’re investigating the issue, but so far, their engineers have found the vibrations to be “negligible.” The agency has hired outside experts, though they’re not confirming that the vibrations are coming from Metro trains.

Then we went to the home of one of those concerned residents, David Solimini, to experience exactly how the rumble sounds and feels. And we recorded it, so now you can experience it for yourself.

(You can also hear Solimini perform his own rendition of the rumble: “I think to adequately do the impression of the sound, you need to be James Earl Jones,” he says.)

Are the rumbles as loud as you expected? Have you heard a similar deep reverberation in your home? Post your reaction in the comments.