A dresser fell onto a toddler. A nannycam video shows how his twin brother rescued him.

When Kayli Shoff woke up at about 8:20 a.m. on Thursday, she wondered why she couldn’t hear her 2-year-old twins. So she took her iPhone and checked the live stream of the security camera in her boys’ bedroom downstairs, to see if they were still asleep. She didn’t see the boys, but she noticed that their dresser was tipped over. Horrified that something bad might have happened, she and her husband, Richard, ran to the bedroom and saw the twins in a corner, quietly playing. They reviewed the camera footage to find out how the eight-drawer dresser had tipped over. What they saw made them sick to their stomach, Shoff told The Washington Post. The video showed Brock and Bowdy in matching pajamas climbing into the dresser’s drawers. Because of their combined weight, the furniture tipped over, trapping Brock underneath. Bowdy, who managed to wiggle out, seemed to very quickly realize what he needed to do. He went to the other side of the dresser, bending over to assess the situation. He then walked back to the corner where his brother was stuck and stood there for about 12 seconds, contemplating his next move. He tried to lift the dresser, but it was too heavy.   Then, it hit him. Placing his two hands against the top of the dresser, his right foot forward, Bowdy pushed as hard as he could, sliding the furniture off his brother. “We were so proud,” Shoff said. “We were so proud with him helping his brother.” But Shoff said the incident also left her feeling embarrassed. At first, she didn’t want anyone else to see the video. “I just never thought it would happen to me,” said Shoff, a dance instructor from Orem, Utah, about 40 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. “Because, obviously, we didn’t tie down the dresser. And you never think it’s going to happen to your child.” But a few days later, after talking to family members, she and her husband decided to share their experience. Shoff posted the video on YouTube on Saturday. The video has been viewed more than 670,000 times as of Tuesday afternoon. Her husband shared it on Facebook the following day. “I’ve been a little hesitant to post this,” wrote Richard Shoff, who works for a security company. “But I feel it’s not only to bring awareness, but it is also incredible. We are so grateful for the bond that these twin brothers share.”   Unsecured appliances and furniture are among the top hazards for children at home, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission. A recent report by the agency estimated that from 2013 to 2015, 33,100 people were treated annually in hospital emergency rooms for injuries involving appliances and furniture. More than half — 52 percent — involved children under the age of 18. And in 61 percent of the cases, the injuries were caused by furniture falling or tipping over. In June 2015, the agency launched “Anchor It,” a public education campaign to prevent such accidents from killing or seriously injuring children. Last summer, Ikea, the largest furniture retailer in the world, recalled 29 million dressers following the deaths of three toddlers. In all incidents, a piece of Ikea furniture had tipped over them. Kayli Shoff said neither of her twins was injured. After the incident, she and her husband bolted the dresser to the wall. They put latches on the side of the bottom drawers and removed all the knobs so the twins couldn’t climb up them. She now urges other parents to immediately do the same. “If you wait a day or two,” she said, “you’re not going to do it.” ‘You could hear them screaming’: School bus crash leaves at least 5 dead in Chattanooga ‘I didn’t want to see them suffering’: Mother confesses to suffocating her three young children ‘Just stop, Daddy’: A lawmaker beat his wife as his children pleaded with him, officials say

Nannycam video captured 2-year-old Bowdy Shoff pushing a large dresser off his twin brother, who had become trapped when the furniture fell on him. (Kayli Shoff)

When Kayli Shoff woke up at about 8:20 a.m. on Thursday, she wondered why she couldn’t hear her 2-year-old twins.

So she took her iPhone and checked the live stream of the security camera in her boys’ bedroom downstairs, to see if they were still asleep. She didn’t see the boys, but she noticed that their dresser was tipped over. Horrified that something bad might have happened, she and her husband, Richard, ran to the bedroom and saw the twins in a corner, quietly playing.

They reviewed the camera footage to find out how the eight-drawer dresser had tipped over. What they saw made them sick to their stomach, Shoff told The Washington Post.

The video showed Brock and Bowdy in matching pajamas climbing into the dresser’s drawers. Because of their combined weight, the furniture tipped over, trapping Brock underneath.

Bowdy, who managed to wiggle out, seemed to very quickly realize what he needed to do.

He went to the other side of the dresser, bending over to assess the situation. He then walked back to the corner where his brother was stuck and stood there for about 12 seconds, contemplating his next move. He tried to lift the dresser, but it was too heavy.

[After deaths of three toddlers, Ikea recalls millions of dressers]

Then, it hit him. Placing his two hands against the top of the dresser, his right foot forward, Bowdy pushed as hard as he could, sliding the furniture off his brother.

“We were so proud,” Shoff said. “We were so proud with him helping his brother.”

But Shoff said the incident also left her feeling embarrassed. At first, she didn’t want anyone else to see the video.

“I just never thought it would happen to me,” said Shoff, a dance instructor from Orem, Utah, about 40 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. “Because, obviously, we didn’t tie down the dresser. And you never think it’s going to happen to your child.”

But a few days later, after talking to family members, she and her husband decided to share their experience.

Shoff posted the video on YouTube on Saturday. The video has been viewed more than 670,000 times as of Tuesday afternoon. Her husband shared it on Facebook the following day.

“I’ve been a little hesitant to post this,” wrote Richard Shoff, who works for a security company. “But I feel it’s not only to bring awareness, but it is also incredible. We are so grateful for the bond that these twin brothers share.”

[Ikea, a tipped-over dresser and a toddler’s tragic death]

Unsecured appliances and furniture are among the top hazards for children at home, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

A recent report by the agency estimated that from 2013 to 2015, 33,100 people were treated annually in hospital emergency rooms for injuries involving appliances and furniture. More than half — 52 percent — involved children under the age of 18. And in 61 percent of the cases, the injuries were caused by furniture falling or tipping over.

In June 2015, the agency launched “Anchor It,” a public education campaign to prevent such accidents from killing or seriously injuring children.

Last summer, Ikea, the largest furniture retailer in the world, recalled 29 million dressers following the deaths of three toddlers. In all incidents, a piece of Ikea furniture had tipped over them.

Kayli Shoff said neither of her twins was injured.

After the incident, she and her husband bolted the dresser to the wall. They put latches on the side of the bottom drawers and removed all the knobs so the twins couldn’t climb up them.

She now urges other parents to immediately do the same.

“If you wait a day or two,” she said, “you’re not going to do it.”

READ MORE:

‘You could hear them screaming’: School bus crash leaves at least 5 dead in Chattanooga

‘I didn’t want to see them suffering’: Mother confesses to suffocating her three young children

‘Just stop, Daddy’: A lawmaker beat his wife as his children pleaded with him, officials say