Farhan Akhtar Gives The Perfect Response To Abu Azmi's Remarks On Bengaluru Mass Molestation
Farhan Akhtar Gives The Perfect Response To Abu Azmi's Remarks On Bengaluru Mass Molestation
Farhan Akhtar Gives The Perfect Response To Abu Azmi's Remarks On Bengaluru Mass Molestation When it comes to justifying rapes and sexual assault, our politicians have some of the most absurd excuses. From claiming that 'chowmein' leads to rape and saying that 90% of the rapes are consensual, these comments have left a lot of us completely baffled. The horrific case of mass molestation of women in Bengaluru on New Year's Eve has left the entire country stunned. The videos that are doing the rounds on social media proves that no place in India is safe for women. Just when we thought that the comments can't get any worse, Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Asim Azmi chose to disgust us with his highly absurd and misogynistic remarks. Talking about the Bengaluru case, he said, "You have to keep petrol away from fire. And if there is sugar, ants will come automatically to it. In today's world, the more a woman is nude, the more she is considered modern and educated. Such things are on a rise in the country. Western culture is a black spot on country's culture and it should be stopped at the earliest. And we need to focus on our famous Indian culture." The comment didn't go down too well with Bollywood actor Farhan Akhtar, who has always hit back at sexism and misogyny. Farhan has always used the freedom of speech and expression carefully and judiciously on social media. And with just one tweet, Farhan could sum up how absurd his remarks were. He wrote, Women should not dress like westerners b'coz men dressed like westerners are molesters, says the man in the shirt. #oxy (deprived)morons Pink actress Tapsee Pannu and Varun Dhawan too took to Twitter to condemn Azmi's disgraceful comments. Argggh how this angers me.Sir punish the criminals not the victims. Women can wear what they want it's their choice. https://t.co/HSpRjlRq8A I wish we had invited him for a special screening of #Pink or let me buy a ticket for him to see! https://t.co/vVQJOgk0YW

When it comes to justifying rapes and sexual assault, our politicians have some of the most absurd excuses. From claiming that 'chowmein' leads to rape and saying that 90% of the rapes are consensual, these comments have left a lot of us completely baffled. The horrific case of mass molestation of women in Bengaluru on New Year's Eve has left the entire country stunned. The videos that are doing the rounds on social media proves that no place in India is safe for women.

BCCL

Just when we thought that the comments can't get any worse, Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Asim Azmi chose to disgust us with his highly absurd and misogynistic remarks. Talking about the Bengaluru case, he said,

Twitter

"You have to keep petrol away from fire. And if there is sugar, ants will come automatically to it. In today's world, the more a woman is nude, the more she is considered modern and educated. Such things are on a rise in the country. Western culture is a black spot on country's culture and it should be stopped at the earliest. And we need to focus on our famous Indian culture."

The comment didn't go down too well with Bollywood actor Farhan Akhtar, who has always hit back at sexism and misogyny.

MARD

Farhan has always used the freedom of speech and expression carefully and judiciously on social media. And with just one tweet, Farhan could sum up how absurd his remarks were. He wrote,

Women should not dress like westerners b'coz men dressed like westerners are molesters, says the man in the shirt.#oxy(deprived)morons — Farhan Akhtar (@FarOutAkhtar) January 3, 2017

Pink actress Tapsee Pannu and Varun Dhawan too took to Twitter to condemn Azmi's disgraceful comments.

Argggh how this angers me.Sir punish the criminals not the victims. Women can wear what they want it's their choice. https://t.co/HSpRjlRq8A — Varun Dhawan (@Varun_dvn) January 3, 2017

I wish we had invited him for a special screening of #Pink or let me buy a ticket for him to see! https://t.co/vVQJOgk0YW — taapsee pannu (@taapsee) January 3, 2017