This Mannequin Challenge expertly shows the need for a Parkinson's cure
This Mannequin Challenge expertly shows the need for a Parkinson's cure
The Mannequin Challenge may be getting stale in terms of meme culture, but one Australia-based nonprofit just made one of the most powerful challenge videos you need to see. Parkinson's New South Wales , an organization that brings support and resources to people living with Parkinson's disease, made a poignant Mannequin Challenge video featuring several people with hand tremors — a common symptom of the neurological condition. SEE ALSO: Congratulations, internet: The Mannequin Challenge finally made it to space The video is noteworthy because the rules of the social media fad require its participants to stay completely still for the entire duration. And that's the point: "Until there's a cure, life is our challenge," the final card of the video reads. In the video, the camera pans throughout a house with people engaging in various activities, such as holding a TV remote, clinking glasses and playing the block-stacking game Jenga. The moments that show people's tremors are stark, while the rest of the scene stays motionless. "The campaign is designed to leverage the global social media craze of the #mannequinchallenge," the YouTube video's description reads. "From Obama, Adele, Paul McCartney to Ellen DeGeneres — why not Parkinson's NSW?" Approximately 70,000 Australians live with Parkinson's, while as many as 1 million people live with the disease in the U.S. Some organizations, like the Michael J. Fox Foundation, are working toward creating a database of core information about those who have Parkinson's. While there have been some scientific breakthroughs , and a variety of treatments exist, there is still no known cure. Parkinson's NSW's video is the latest example of people and organizations using the Mannequin Challenge for social good, relaying important messages by tapping into the viral stunt. In November, actor and director Simone Shepherd made a video that shed light on police brutality and the Black Lives Matter movement, and in December, UNICEF recreated the challenge to show the horror of female genital mutilation (FGM) around the world. Last fall, someone tweeted maliciously at Michael J. Fox — the actor and advocate who lives with Parkinson's and whose eponymous foundation focuses on research for the disease — whether he'd do the challenge. Fox, in a spectacular show of humor and awareness, simply responded: "Smh." BONUS: These robotic utensils are changing the lives of people with disabilities

The Mannequin Challenge may be getting stale in terms of meme culture, but one Australia-based nonprofit just made one of the most powerful challenge videos you need to see.

Parkinson's New South Wales, an organization that brings support and resources to people living with Parkinson's disease, made a poignant Mannequin Challenge video featuring several people with hand tremors — a common symptom of the neurological condition.

The video is noteworthy because the rules of the social media fad require its participants to stay completely still for the entire duration. And that's the point: "Until there's a cure, life is our challenge," the final card of the video reads.

In the video, the camera pans throughout a house with people engaging in various activities, such as holding a TV remote, clinking glasses and playing the block-stacking game Jenga.

The moments that show people's tremors are stark, while the rest of the scene stays motionless.

"The campaign is designed to leverage the global social media craze of the #mannequinchallenge," the YouTube video's description reads. "From Obama, Adele, Paul McCartney to Ellen DeGeneres — why not Parkinson's NSW?"

Approximately 70,000 Australians live with Parkinson's, while as many as 1 million people live with the disease in the U.S. Some organizations, like the Michael J. Fox Foundation, are working toward creating a database of core information about those who have Parkinson's.

While there have been some scientific breakthroughs, and a variety of treatments exist, there is still no known cure.

Parkinson's NSW's video is the latest example of people and organizations using the Mannequin Challenge for social good, relaying important messages by tapping into the viral stunt. In November, actor and director Simone Shepherd made a video that shed light on police brutality and the Black Lives Matter movement, and in December, UNICEF recreated the challenge to show the horror of female genital mutilation (FGM) around the world.

Last fall, someone tweeted maliciously at Michael J. Fox — the actor and advocate who lives with Parkinson's and whose eponymous foundation focuses on research for the disease — whether he'd do the challenge. Fox, in a spectacular show of humor and awareness, simply responded: "Smh."