India police detain six suspects over NYE attacks on women amid 'copying Westerners' furore



India police detain six suspects over NYE attacks on women amid 'copying Westerners' furore

Posted

Police in India have detained at least six suspects after outrage erupted over several women being groped and molested during New Year's Eve celebrations in the southern city of Bangalore.

Key points: Bangalore police first denied any incidents took place

Videos of women being attacked by men went viral on social media

Six now detained after at least one woman filed a complaint

One minister said the women were "copying Westerners"

City police first denied any incidents of sexual harassment had taken place during the late-night celebrations.

But on Wednesday, police officer Hemant Nimbalkar said at least six men were detained after several video clips of women being attacked by groups of men went viral on social media.

The attacks highlighted the persistent violence against women in India despite tougher laws against sexual assault imposed after the December 2012 death of a young woman who was gang-raped on a bus in New Delhi.

One senior state Government minister said the New Year's incidents took place because the women were acting like Westerners, implying that their attire had provoked the attacks.

The police had earlier said no one had come forward to file a complaint about the incidents.

Since then, at least one woman has come forward to speak of how she was molested on the night.

Others have said they saw women being molested or groped, and that revellers were making lewd remarks, even as the state Government said that more than 1,500 police personnel had been deployed to control the crowds.

The young woman who came forward, Chaitali Wasnick, told NDTV news that she was heading home at around 1:30 am and became suspicious when two men approached her.

"So I just moved aside, I let them pass," she said, adding that one man began to grope her.

"I did not have any idea that he'd do that, so I went totally blank," Ms Wasnick said, adding that no one came to help her and there were no police personnel around.

As Bangalore newspapers published images of several women who were allegedly groped or attacked, the state's home minister, G. Parameshwara, criticised young women for "copying the Westerners, not only in their mindset, but even in their dressing".

"These kind of things do happen," he told reporters on Tuesday.

AP

Topics: law-crime-and-justice, sexual-offences, women, india, asia