Asia's richest families are abandoning hedge funds due to mediocre returns and high fees
Asia's richest families are abandoning hedge funds due to mediocre returns and high fees
For Michael Preiss, whose firm oversees $1.9bn (£1.55bn) mainly for wealthy Asian families, adding hedge funds to his clients’ portfolios was an easy sell some years ago. Not anymore. The executive director at the Singapore-based Taurus Wealth Advisors multi-family office said his clients are disappointed with mediocre hedge fund returns and are balking at high fees, prompting them to shift to private equity. With redemptions already at a four-year high, Asia’s richest people comprise an investor group regional hedge funds can ill afford to lose. Family offices representing billionaires and multimillionaires are a key source of capital in Asia, where global pension funds and university endowments haven’t made large inroads. Managers seeking money for new hedge funds are likely to be the hardest hit.   UK hedge funds draw up Brexit wish list to prevent damage to the City “Asia’s hedge funds are smaller than their global peers, meaning they are more dependent on money from high-net-worth individuals and family offices,” said Melvyn Teo, professor of finance at Singapore Management University. “If family offices withdraw money, the region’s hedge fund industry will clearly feel the pinch.” UBS said in November family offices worldwide have turned away from hedge funds after they trailed stock markets in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The trend is even more pronounced in Asia, where family offices set more aggressive performance goals, according to Eric Landolt, UBS’s head of family advisory for Asia Pacific. Read more Brexit-backing hedge fund billionaire warns UK economy 'about to crash Why hedge fund employees are departing to work for mutual funds Hedge fund bets against pound hit record highs in wake of Brexit Top 25 US hedge fund managers made $13bn in 2015 “Family offices are usually here to add wealth to the family,” said Landolt. “It is a growth engine for the family, whereas in Europe or the US there is a much stronger wealth-preservation angle.” Managers seeking capital from outside Asia may find few takers. Ray Nolte, chief investment officer of $8bn US-based fund of hedge funds SkyBridge Capital, last month said he’s shunning Asian hedge funds because of mounting risks in China’s debt markets. SkyBridge has less than 5 per cent of its assets in Asian hedge funds, Nolte said. That compares with 85 per cent in the US and 10 per cent in Europe. Hedge funds investing in Asia suffered $1.6bn of withdrawals through November, on track for the biggest outflows in four years, as their returns trailed the industry globally, according to the latest estimates from data provider Eurekahedge Pte. “The big hedge funds have become complacent, meaning they put more emphasis on the management fee than performance fee,” Taurus’s Preiss said. “For instance, a $1bn fund tends to focus on capital preservation and getting the management fee instead of working on a decent performance.” Business picture of the day               Business picture of the day    Brexit: Bank of England upgrades growth forecasts but still expects UK economy to be hit - Thursday Ferbruary 2   The Bank of England has dramatically upgraded its growth forecast for this year but stressed that households will still experience a major squeeze on incomes due to rising inflation.

In its latest Inflation Report, the Bank upgraded its 2017 GDP growth forecast to 2 per cent, up from 1.4 per cent in November.

The revision is certain to be seized upon by Brexiteers as evidence that the economy will not suffer from leaving the European Union and that previous economic warnings from the Bank have now been exposed as scaremongering.

Yet the Bank’s forecasts continue to project a growth slowdown in 2018 and 2019, with GDP expected to expand by 1.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent in those years.   Getty     Founder of Morrisons supermarkets dies at the age of 85   Sir Ken Morrison, the founder of supermarket chain of Morrisons, who was instrumental in growing the company into one of Britain’s leading retailers, has died at the age of 85   Rex     Boohoo staff can get fired 'for smiling' - Monday January 30   Employers working for online fashion retailer Boohoo.com risk getting fired for smiling or checking their mobile phones, an investigation by Channel 4 has found.

The investigation comes after online fashion retailer Asos was accused last year of exploitative working practises with staff reportedly unable to take regular water and toilet breaks for fears of missing targets. The company denied those allegations.   Getty Images     Tesco to buy wholesaler Booker in £3.7bn deal to create 'UK's leading food business' - Friday January 27   Britain's biggest retailer announced that it was merging with Booker, the UK's top food wholesaler, in a £3.7bn deal.

In a joint statement, the two companies said that the combined group would bring benefits for consumers, independent retailers, caterers, small businesses, suppliers, and colleagues, and deliver “significant value to shareholders”.   Tesco     Tobacco giant Imperial Brands scraps chief executive pay rise  - Thursday January 26   The chief executive of Imperial Brands, the maker of Gauloises and Winston cigarettes, is unlikely to get a pay rise this year in what seems to be another battle over boardroom greed.

Alison Cooper received a total pay package of £5.5m in the last financial year, up from £3.6m the year before.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads


READ MORE
Link between high executive pay and performance ‘negligible’
A new pay policy that would have had the effect of taking Ms Cooper’s remuneration to £8.5m in 2017 was expected to be put to a shareholders’ vote on 1 February. However, in an announcement to the stock exchange on Thursday, Imperial Brands said it would not put the policy to a vote as originally planned.   Rex     The Dow Jones Industrial Average has just reached 20,000 points for the first time ever - Wednesday January 25   Wall Street's Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index on Wednesday hit the 20,000 mark for the first time in its history. 

In morning trading in the US, the index added around 0.5 percent to surpass the psychologically important threshold and take its gains since this time last year to 23.8 per cent according to Thomson Reuters data.   Thomson Reuters Eikon     HSBC to close 62 high street branches in 2017 resulting in up to 180 job cuts - Tuesday January 24   HSBC plans to close 62 branches this year, resulting in up to 180 job losses, in response to the rising popularity of online and mobile banking, the bank announced on Tuesday.

In a statement, HSBC said that over the past five years, the number of customers using HSBC branches had fallen by almost 40 per cent and 93 per cent of customers’ contact with the bank is now done on the telephone, internet or via smartphone. A total of 97 per cent of cash withdrawals are made via an ATM.   Getty Images     Theresa May criticised by top economists for trying to ‘have her cake and eat it' with Brexit - Wednesday January 18   Top economists and strategists have warned that Theresa May’s vision of Brexit lacks credibility and clarity, a day after the Prime Minister delivered an agenda-setting speech on Britain’s future outside the EU.

In her speech in London on Tuesday, Ms May confirmed that Britain will leave the EU’s single market to regain control of immigration policy and said that she wants to renegotiate the UK’s customs agreement and seek a transition period to phase in changes all while remaining a “best friend” to the bloc.   Getty     Fiat loses $2.3bn in stock value plunge after diesel emissions accusation - Thursday January 12   Shares in Fiat Chrysler plunged on Thursday after US authorities said that the carmaker had violated the Clean Air Act by allowing excess diesel emissions in some vehicles.

The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accused the company of using software that allowed excess diesel emissions in just over 100,000 US trucks and SUVs sold since 2014.


READ MORE
Six senior Volkswagen employees charged over emissions scandal
Shares listed in Europe were recently trading around 18 per cent lower on the day. Shares in the US fell 16 per cent before being halted from trading, wiping $2.3bn (£1.88bn) off the company's market value.      Rising inequality behind Brexit and Trump victory is top global threat for the next decade, says WEF - Wednesday January 11   A rise in global income inequality, that already helped spur the Brexit vote and Donald Trump’s election victory, are expected to shape world developments over the next decade, according to the World Economic Forum.

For a report published ahead of its annual summit in Davos next week, the WEF surveyed 750 risk experts and found that rising income and wealth disparity were cited as the most important trends in determining global developments over the next 10 years.   Getty     Mayor Sadiq Khan axes new Routemaster bus from the streets of London - Friday January 6   London Mayor Sadiq Khan has ended any hopes to purchase new Routemasters bus for the capital's streets as he tries to balance the books on London's transport budget.

Once called 'Boris buses' named after his the previous mayor, every bus would cost around £350,000 each, or around £50,000 more than an ordinary bus.

But the new mayor has promised to freeze purchases of the vehicles, which were criticised for being expensive and sauna-like conditions.   Getty Images     FTSE closes 2015 at record high - Friday December 31   Britain’s blue chip FTSE 100 set a new record on the last day of trading of 2016 after climbing to record closing highs for two consecutive days.

The blue-chip index gained 22 points or 0.3 per cent, to finish at 7142 points on Friday, its third closing high in as many days and a new intraday high.   AP     Hatton Garden: London’s famous diamond quarter under threat from Brexit and rent hikes - Thursday December 29   London’s world famous jewellery quarter could face extinction due to soaring business rates, rent rises and the aftermath of Brexit.

Hatton Garden was the centre of the world's diamond market, but traders are fighting to bring back the glory days, as they are squeezed by rising rents and the uncertainty created by the UK vote to leave the EU.   Reuters     World's oldest bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena on brink of £17bn Italian state bailout - Thursday December 22   The world’s oldest bank, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, is poised for a multi-billion state bailout after it admitted on Wednesday that a private rescue plan was unlikely to succeed.

The Italian parliament looks set to step in to save Monte dei Paschi di Siena, recently judged the weakest of the European Union's major banks, over the next few days using a new €20bn (£17bn) rescue fund designed to prop up Italy's struggling lenders.   Getty Images     NHS overcharged by 12,000% for hydrocortisone tablets by drug company Actavis, CMA claims - Friday December 16   Pharmaceutical company Actavis has been accused of overcharging the NHS by raising the price of hydrocortisone tablets by more than 12,000 per cent over the course of eight years.

Hydrocortisone tablets are used by people with adrenal insufficiency, a life-threatening condition where their adrenal glands do not produce enough natural steroid hormones.   AFP/Getty     Solar power becoming world's cheapest form of electricity production - Thursday December 15   Solar power is becoming the cheapest way to generate electricity, according to leading analysts.

Data produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) showed the cost of solar in 58 lower-income countries – including China, Brazil and India – had fallen to about a third of levels in 2010 and was now slightly cheaper than wind energy.   Jungle Herbs & Spices/Facebook     Italy’s largest bank Unicredit plans to slash 14,000 jobs over next two years - Tuesday December 13    Getty     Donald Trump knocks $3.5bn off Lockheed Martin market value with one tweet - Monday December 12   Barely a week after taking shots at Boeing, Donald Trump took aim at Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet programme, saying the cost was "out of control".Following the tweet on Monday morning, shares of the aerospace company plunged by more than 4 per cent in early trade. 

Based on the number of shares outstanding, the tweet has shaved just over $3.5bn from Lockheed's market value.   Getty     Brexit: Banks in 'advanced talks' over mass move to Paris, says French regulator - Thursday December 8   Leading international UK-based banks are in advanced stages of planning to shift operations to Paris as London braces for the impact of Brexit, France's chief financial regulator has said.

Paris is among a number of European cities seeking to woo firms considering a move away from London to maintain their access to EU markets, and faces competition from Dublin, Frankfurt and Luxembourg, among others.   Reuters     Pfizer fined record £84.2m for overcharging NHS 2600% -Wednesday December 7   Drug firms Pfizer and Flynn Pharma have been fined nearly £90m by the UK’s competition watchdog for “unfair” pricing to the NHS after hiking up the cost of an anti-epilepsy drug by up to 2,600 per cent.

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said these “extraordinary price rises” have costs taxpayers “tens of millions of pounds”.   Getty     Prime Minister Theresa May visits constituency ahead of Small Business Saturday - Friday December2   The prime minister, Theresa May, visits butcher J&S Rook in her constituency of Maidenhead, ahead of Small Business Saturday   Stefan Wermuth PA Wire/PA Images     Oil prices soar as Opec countries agree first oil output cut in eight years - Wednesday November 30   Opec countries have agreed their first supply cut in eight years, sending the price of crude surging more than 8%.      Stores far from overwhelmed as Black Friday sales begins - November 25   People stream into the Apple store on 5th Avenue on Black Friday in New York .
Crowds were thin at U.S. malls and stores on Black Friday morning, formerly the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, with stores opening earlier and online sales expected to take the biggest share of gains in retail sales over last year.

In the New York and Chicago areas, shoppers said stores were less busy than previous years on the day after the Thanksgiving holiday.
The pictures similar in the UK the action has shifted from high street stores to become a predominantly online event   Reuters     Nintendo shares jump after it announces the launch date for Super Mario Run - Wednesday 16 November   The hugely anticipated game is an attempt to capitalise on the smartphone gaming market after the phenomenal success of Pokemon Go.   Getty     Pound rises as High Court rules against Theresa May triggering Article 50 without Parliament - Thursday November 3   The pound has risen against all of its major peers on Thursday after the Government announced it cannot trigger Article 50 without parliament approval and the Bank of England said it is no longer expecting to cut interest rates this year.      Heathrow third runway poses ‘serious obstacle’ to fight against climate change - Tuesday October 25   Environmental groups expressed dismay at the Government’s decision to give a third runway at the airport the go-ahead – and Greenpeace vowed to challenge it in the courts.

Allowing Heathrow to expand will create “a serious obstacle” to meeting the UK’s commitments on climate change and reducing air pollution, a leading scientist has warned.   Reclaim the Power     Nearly 10,000 people in China apply for one job - Monday October 24   Nearly ten thousands Chinese jobseekers are competing for one position: an officer worker at a political organisation.China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year.

Job seekers registering for the civil exams are required to pick the positions they are most interested in when they sign up for the test but one job was more popular than others.

China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year.   Reuters     Price of wine set to soar as production nears 20-year low - Friday 21 October   Vineyard manager Antonio Navarro looks at grapes ready to be harvested at the Casa Bianchi vineyard in San Rafael   Reuters     Banks consider ‘moving London staff to Luxembourg to get access to EU’ - Wednesday 19 October   The head of financial development for Luxembourg said a string of overseas banks and fund managers had explored moving London staff to the tiny country since the Brexit vote.

Nicolas Mackel said there had been “strong interest” from US and other non-EU firms assessing their options since June’s referendum.   Rex     The pound falls below €1.10 for the first time since March 2010 - Monday October 17   The pound has fallen below €1.10 for the first time in six and a half years, since March 2010.

Sterling has been under pressure since Britain voted to leave the European Union.

The pound has fallen by almost 20% against the against the dollar since the Brexit vote, trading below $1.22 and €1.10 on Monday.      Brexit: US banks are planning exodus from the UK, French minister says - Friday October 14   French finance Minister Michel Sapin said that US banks had confirmed to him they would move some activities out of Britain to other European countries as the UK prepares to leave the EU.

Sapin revealed that the executives of major US banks have told him they were working on contingency plans, after their meeting last week in Washington.      Tesco running out of products like Marmite and PG Tips amid Brexit price row with Unilever - Thursday October 13   Tesco has removed a number of popular products such as Marmite, Bovril and PG Tips from its online store following a price row with supplier Unilever over the plunging pound.

Multinational household goods giant Unilever has reportedly demanded a 10 per cent price rise in its products, including those made in the UK, to offset the higher cost of imported goods.   Reuters  The ultra-rich families backing Taurus instead want to put their money directly into technology companies, according to Preiss. Taurus has about 10 per cent of client assets allocated to alternative assets. At $500m multi-family office Golden Equator Capital Pte, the shift has been even more drastic. Over the past two years, the share of assets allocated to hedge funds has more than halved to less than 10 per cent, while private-equity investments have doubled to 20 per cent, according to founder and chief executive Shirley Chua. Chua said her clients are particularly interested in closely-held US firms focusing on disruptive technologies such as car-hailing firm Uber Technologies Inc. or Magic Leap Inc., a US startup working on a device that simulates reality. “There is great interest in the unicorns,” said Chua, who before setting up Golden Equator assisted high-net-worth individuals from Asia and Europe as a director at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore. “Our clients want to participate in the new economy.” Taurus and Golden Equator are part of a wider shift that’s undermining hedge funds. The average share of alternative assets, mostly real estate and private equity, in Asian family office portfolios increased by 3 percentage points to 44 per cent in the two years through May 2016, according to UBS data. The proportion allocated to hedge funds fell 1 percentage point to 5 per cent. New hedge funds in Asia are particularly affected by the reluctance of family offices to invest, according to Singapore Management University’s Teo. “Especially for hedge fund startups, the bar has been raised because of this,” he said. “A lot of them depend not on institutional investor capital, but on capital from high net worth individuals and family offices so that they can get up to critical mass. It becomes a problem if family offices start to shy away from this.” Shiraz Poonevala, director of investments at Bangkok-based family office GP Group, which only invests its estimated $500m of assets directly, say it’s also a matter of Asia’s richest families wanting more control of their assets. “I look my boss in the eye every day, and I have to answer to him,” he said. “Maybe I don’t get super returns, but at the same time I don’t do super silly things because I have to see him every day. A hedge fund is like writing a check and then hoping for the best.” More about: Hedge Funds Comments

1/32 Brexit: Bank of England upgrades growth forecasts but still expects UK economy to be hit - Thursday Ferbruary 2 The Bank of England has dramatically upgraded its growth forecast for this year but stressed that households will still experience a major squeeze on incomes due to rising inflation. In its latest Inflation Report, the Bank upgraded its 2017 GDP growth forecast to 2 per cent, up from 1.4 per cent in November. The revision is certain to be seized upon by Brexiteers as evidence that the economy will not suffer from leaving the European Union and that previous economic warnings from the Bank have now been exposed as scaremongering. Yet the Bank’s forecasts continue to project a growth slowdown in 2018 and 2019, with GDP expected to expand by 1.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent in those years. Getty

2/32 Founder of Morrisons supermarkets dies at the age of 85 Sir Ken Morrison, the founder of supermarket chain of Morrisons, who was instrumental in growing the company into one of Britain’s leading retailers, has died at the age of 85 Rex

3/32 Boohoo staff can get fired 'for smiling' - Monday January 30 Employers working for online fashion retailer Boohoo.com risk getting fired for smiling or checking their mobile phones, an investigation by Channel 4 has found. The investigation comes after online fashion retailer Asos was accused last year of exploitative working practises with staff reportedly unable to take regular water and toilet breaks for fears of missing targets. The company denied those allegations. Getty Images

4/32 Tesco to buy wholesaler Booker in £3.7bn deal to create 'UK's leading food business' - Friday January 27 Britain's biggest retailer announced that it was merging with Booker, the UK's top food wholesaler, in a £3.7bn deal. In a joint statement, the two companies said that the combined group would bring benefits for consumers, independent retailers, caterers, small businesses, suppliers, and colleagues, and deliver “significant value to shareholders”. Tesco

5/32 Tobacco giant Imperial Brands scraps chief executive pay rise - Thursday January 26 The chief executive of Imperial Brands, the maker of Gauloises and Winston cigarettes, is unlikely to get a pay rise this year in what seems to be another battle over boardroom greed. Alison Cooper received a total pay package of £5.5m in the last financial year, up from £3.6m the year before. ADVERTISING inRead invented by Teads READ MORE Link between high executive pay and performance ‘negligible’ A new pay policy that would have had the effect of taking Ms Cooper’s remuneration to £8.5m in 2017 was expected to be put to a shareholders’ vote on 1 February. However, in an announcement to the stock exchange on Thursday, Imperial Brands said it would not put the policy to a vote as originally planned. Rex

6/32 The Dow Jones Industrial Average has just reached 20,000 points for the first time ever - Wednesday January 25 Wall Street's Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index on Wednesday hit the 20,000 mark for the first time in its history. In morning trading in the US, the index added around 0.5 percent to surpass the psychologically important threshold and take its gains since this time last year to 23.8 per cent according to Thomson Reuters data. Thomson Reuters Eikon

7/32 HSBC to close 62 high street branches in 2017 resulting in up to 180 job cuts - Tuesday January 24 HSBC plans to close 62 branches this year, resulting in up to 180 job losses, in response to the rising popularity of online and mobile banking, the bank announced on Tuesday. In a statement, HSBC said that over the past five years, the number of customers using HSBC branches had fallen by almost 40 per cent and 93 per cent of customers’ contact with the bank is now done on the telephone, internet or via smartphone. A total of 97 per cent of cash withdrawals are made via an ATM. Getty Images

8/32 Theresa May criticised by top economists for trying to ‘have her cake and eat it' with Brexit - Wednesday January 18 Top economists and strategists have warned that Theresa May’s vision of Brexit lacks credibility and clarity, a day after the Prime Minister delivered an agenda-setting speech on Britain’s future outside the EU. In her speech in London on Tuesday, Ms May confirmed that Britain will leave the EU’s single market to regain control of immigration policy and said that she wants to renegotiate the UK’s customs agreement and seek a transition period to phase in changes all while remaining a “best friend” to the bloc. Getty

9/32 Fiat loses $2.3bn in stock value plunge after diesel emissions accusation - Thursday January 12 Shares in Fiat Chrysler plunged on Thursday after US authorities said that the carmaker had violated the Clean Air Act by allowing excess diesel emissions in some vehicles. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accused the company of using software that allowed excess diesel emissions in just over 100,000 US trucks and SUVs sold since 2014. READ MORE Six senior Volkswagen employees charged over emissions scandal Shares listed in Europe were recently trading around 18 per cent lower on the day. Shares in the US fell 16 per cent before being halted from trading, wiping $2.3bn (£1.88bn) off the company's market value.

10/32 Rising inequality behind Brexit and Trump victory is top global threat for the next decade, says WEF - Wednesday January 11 A rise in global income inequality, that already helped spur the Brexit vote and Donald Trump’s election victory, are expected to shape world developments over the next decade, according to the World Economic Forum. For a report published ahead of its annual summit in Davos next week, the WEF surveyed 750 risk experts and found that rising income and wealth disparity were cited as the most important trends in determining global developments over the next 10 years. Getty

11/32 Mayor Sadiq Khan axes new Routemaster bus from the streets of London - Friday January 6 London Mayor Sadiq Khan has ended any hopes to purchase new Routemasters bus for the capital's streets as he tries to balance the books on London's transport budget. Once called 'Boris buses' named after his the previous mayor, every bus would cost around £350,000 each, or around £50,000 more than an ordinary bus. But the new mayor has promised to freeze purchases of the vehicles, which were criticised for being expensive and sauna-like conditions. Getty Images

12/32 FTSE closes 2015 at record high - Friday December 31 Britain’s blue chip FTSE 100 set a new record on the last day of trading of 2016 after climbing to record closing highs for two consecutive days. The blue-chip index gained 22 points or 0.3 per cent, to finish at 7142 points on Friday, its third closing high in as many days and a new intraday high. AP

13/32 Hatton Garden: London’s famous diamond quarter under threat from Brexit and rent hikes - Thursday December 29 London’s world famous jewellery quarter could face extinction due to soaring business rates, rent rises and the aftermath of Brexit. Hatton Garden was the centre of the world's diamond market, but traders are fighting to bring back the glory days, as they are squeezed by rising rents and the uncertainty created by the UK vote to leave the EU. Reuters

14/32 World's oldest bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena on brink of £17bn Italian state bailout - Thursday December 22 The world’s oldest bank, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, is poised for a multi-billion state bailout after it admitted on Wednesday that a private rescue plan was unlikely to succeed. The Italian parliament looks set to step in to save Monte dei Paschi di Siena, recently judged the weakest of the European Union's major banks, over the next few days using a new €20bn (£17bn) rescue fund designed to prop up Italy's struggling lenders. Getty Images

15/32 NHS overcharged by 12,000% for hydrocortisone tablets by drug company Actavis, CMA claims - Friday December 16 Pharmaceutical company Actavis has been accused of overcharging the NHS by raising the price of hydrocortisone tablets by more than 12,000 per cent over the course of eight years. Hydrocortisone tablets are used by people with adrenal insufficiency, a life-threatening condition where their adrenal glands do not produce enough natural steroid hormones. AFP/Getty

16/32 Solar power becoming world's cheapest form of electricity production - Thursday December 15 Solar power is becoming the cheapest way to generate electricity, according to leading analysts. Data produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) showed the cost of solar in 58 lower-income countries – including China, Brazil and India – had fallen to about a third of levels in 2010 and was now slightly cheaper than wind energy. Jungle Herbs & Spices/Facebook

17/32 Italy’s largest bank Unicredit plans to slash 14,000 jobs over next two years - Tuesday December 13 Getty

18/32 Donald Trump knocks $3.5bn off Lockheed Martin market value with one tweet - Monday December 12 Barely a week after taking shots at Boeing, Donald Trump took aim at Lockheed Martin's F-35 fighter jet programme, saying the cost was "out of control".Following the tweet on Monday morning, shares of the aerospace company plunged by more than 4 per cent in early trade. Based on the number of shares outstanding, the tweet has shaved just over $3.5bn from Lockheed's market value. Getty

19/32 Brexit: Banks in 'advanced talks' over mass move to Paris, says French regulator - Thursday December 8 Leading international UK-based banks are in advanced stages of planning to shift operations to Paris as London braces for the impact of Brexit, France's chief financial regulator has said. Paris is among a number of European cities seeking to woo firms considering a move away from London to maintain their access to EU markets, and faces competition from Dublin, Frankfurt and Luxembourg, among others. Reuters

20/32 Pfizer fined record £84.2m for overcharging NHS 2600% -Wednesday December 7 Drug firms Pfizer and Flynn Pharma have been fined nearly £90m by the UK’s competition watchdog for “unfair” pricing to the NHS after hiking up the cost of an anti-epilepsy drug by up to 2,600 per cent. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said these “extraordinary price rises” have costs taxpayers “tens of millions of pounds”. Getty

21/32 Prime Minister Theresa May visits constituency ahead of Small Business Saturday - Friday December2 The prime minister, Theresa May, visits butcher J&S Rook in her constituency of Maidenhead, ahead of Small Business Saturday Stefan Wermuth PA Wire/PA Images

22/32 Oil prices soar as Opec countries agree first oil output cut in eight years - Wednesday November 30 Opec countries have agreed their first supply cut in eight years, sending the price of crude surging more than 8%.

23/32 Stores far from overwhelmed as Black Friday sales begins - November 25 People stream into the Apple store on 5th Avenue on Black Friday in New York . Crowds were thin at U.S. malls and stores on Black Friday morning, formerly the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, with stores opening earlier and online sales expected to take the biggest share of gains in retail sales over last year. In the New York and Chicago areas, shoppers said stores were less busy than previous years on the day after the Thanksgiving holiday. The pictures similar in the UK the action has shifted from high street stores to become a predominantly online event Reuters

24/32 Nintendo shares jump after it announces the launch date for Super Mario Run - Wednesday 16 November The hugely anticipated game is an attempt to capitalise on the smartphone gaming market after the phenomenal success of Pokemon Go. Getty

25/32 Pound rises as High Court rules against Theresa May triggering Article 50 without Parliament - Thursday November 3 The pound has risen against all of its major peers on Thursday after the Government announced it cannot trigger Article 50 without parliament approval and the Bank of England said it is no longer expecting to cut interest rates this year.

26/32 Heathrow third runway poses ‘serious obstacle’ to fight against climate change - Tuesday October 25 Environmental groups expressed dismay at the Government’s decision to give a third runway at the airport the go-ahead – and Greenpeace vowed to challenge it in the courts. Allowing Heathrow to expand will create “a serious obstacle” to meeting the UK’s commitments on climate change and reducing air pollution, a leading scientist has warned. Reclaim the Power

27/32 Nearly 10,000 people in China apply for one job - Monday October 24 Nearly ten thousands Chinese jobseekers are competing for one position: an officer worker at a political organisation.China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year. Job seekers registering for the civil exams are required to pick the positions they are most interested in when they sign up for the test but one job was more popular than others. China's annual civil service recruitment drive began on October 15, with more than 27,000 vacancies on offer in over 120 central departments - drawing about 1.4 million applicants this year. Reuters

28/32 Price of wine set to soar as production nears 20-year low - Friday 21 October Vineyard manager Antonio Navarro looks at grapes ready to be harvested at the Casa Bianchi vineyard in San Rafael Reuters

29/32 Banks consider ‘moving London staff to Luxembourg to get access to EU’ - Wednesday 19 October The head of financial development for Luxembourg said a string of overseas banks and fund managers had explored moving London staff to the tiny country since the Brexit vote. Nicolas Mackel said there had been “strong interest” from US and other non-EU firms assessing their options since June’s referendum. Rex

30/32 The pound falls below €1.10 for the first time since March 2010 - Monday October 17 The pound has fallen below €1.10 for the first time in six and a half years, since March 2010. Sterling has been under pressure since Britain voted to leave the European Union. The pound has fallen by almost 20% against the against the dollar since the Brexit vote, trading below $1.22 and €1.10 on Monday.

31/32 Brexit: US banks are planning exodus from the UK, French minister says - Friday October 14 French finance Minister Michel Sapin said that US banks had confirmed to him they would move some activities out of Britain to other European countries as the UK prepares to leave the EU. Sapin revealed that the executives of major US banks have told him they were working on contingency plans, after their meeting last week in Washington.