India plans to give 88 million cows 'identity cards' which can be tracked online
India plans to give 88 million cows 'identity cards' which can be tracked online 
ritish citizens hold a National Insurance number and Americans a Social Security number. Now cows and buffaloes in India will be given 'animal health cards', similar to the Aadhar system already in place for Indian citizens. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated a plan to assign unique 12-digit identification numbers to 88 million cattle in India by the end of 2017. Yellow tags are being placed on the animals' ears by 100,000 technicians across the country in an effort to boost the income of the dairy sector by 2022. Details for each animal will then be placed in an online database. he card, held by the owner, will track activities and provide information to ensure cattle can be vaccinated on time, breeding cycles can be better monitored, and scientific intervention can be made resulting in better breeding and an increase in quality milk production. The tags are tamper-proof and designed to last for years. They weigh just 8 grams, to cause minimum inconvenience to the animals that are sacred for the Hindu community. ows have been previously issued with cards in India, but for different reasons. In 2007, Indian border guards began photographing cows in villages in West Bengal, issuing them with identity cards to reportedly try and stop the smuggling of cattle to neighbouring Bangladesh. India has nearly 41 million buffalo and 47 million indigenous and cross-breed cows that produce milk.

British citizens hold a National Insurance number and Americans a Social Security number. Now cows and buffaloes in India will be given 'animal health cards', similar to the Aadhar system already in place for Indian citizens.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated a plan to assign unique 12-digit identification numbers to 88 million cattle in India by the end of 2017.

Yellow tags are being placed on the animals' ears by 100,000 technicians across the country in an effort to boost the income of the dairy sector by 2022.

Details for each animal will then be placed in an online database.