Clemson Coach Brad Brownell Confronts Roy Williams in Handshake Line
Clemson Coach Brad Brownell Confronts Roy Williams in Handshake Line
Clemson coach Brad Brownell with some words for Roy Williams. Roy appears to be apologizing. https://t.co/oztnXg7Vc1 Win or lose, most college basketball coaches are usually able to keep their emotions in check as they go through the postgame handshake line. However, Clemson Tigers coach Brad Brownell had no interest in doing so after his team's matchup with the North Carolina Tar Heels on Tuesday night. After an 89-86 overtime loss to the Tar Heels—the Tigers' 19th defeat in 20 meetings against the team from Chapel Hill—Brownell was fuming. The Clemson coach angrily gave North Carolina's Roy Williams a piece of his mind in the handshake line. It wasn't clear to the viewing audience what exactly led to the confrontation, but a couple of reports noted that a Tar Heels player got under Brownell's skin: Told by multiple sources that Brad Brownell was upset about something Kennedy Meeks was saying to Clemson bench at end of game. I'm told Kennedy Meeks was yelling at Clemson's bench and that's why Brownell was giving Roy the business. Roy apologized, apparently. Some coaches may not have taken too kindly to being yelled at or having a finger in their face, but Williams handled the situation about as well as anyone possibly could have. He even appeared to apologize to Brownell. Bad blood can linger from one meeting to the next, but we may have to wait until next season to see if that's the case here. Clemson and North Carolina are not currently scheduled to meet again this season, although they could find themselves playing each other in both the ACC and NCAA tournaments. [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Win or lose, most college basketball coaches are usually able to keep their emotions in check as they go through the postgame handshake line.

However, Clemson Tigers coach Brad Brownell had no interest in doing so after his team's matchup with the North Carolina Tar Heels on Tuesday night.

After an 89-86 overtime loss to the Tar Heels—the Tigers' 19th defeat in 20 meetings against the team from Chapel Hill—Brownell was fuming. The Clemson coach angrily gave North Carolina's Roy Williams a piece of his mind in the handshake line.

It wasn't clear to the viewing audience what exactly led to the confrontation, but a couple of reports noted that a Tar Heels player got under Brownell's skin:

Some coaches may not have taken too kindly to being yelled at or having a finger in their face, but Williams handled the situation about as well as anyone possibly could have. He even appeared to apologize to Brownell.

Bad blood can linger from one meeting to the next, but we may have to wait until next season to see if that's the case here. Clemson and North Carolina are not currently scheduled to meet again this season, although they could find themselves playing each other in both the ACC and NCAA tournaments.

[Twitter]