Insurers paid out $50bn for natural disaster claims in 2016

Reuters   Last year saw the highest costs from natural disasters since 2012, with two earthquakes in Japan in April accounting for the heaviest losses, a leading insurer has said. Losses from natural disasters worldwide totalled $175bn (£142bn) last year, some $50bn of which was covered by insurance, Munich Re said in an annual survey on Wednesday. The earthquakes on Japan’s southern Kyushu island caused $31bn worth of damage, with $6bn of the costs covered by insurance. Floods in China in June and July caused $20bn in costs, only $300m of which was insured. The third-costliest disaster was Hurricane Matthew , which hit the Caribbean and the eastern US in October. It incurred losses totalling $10.2bn, of which $3.8bn was covered by insurance. In 2015, when the El Niño weather phenomenon reduced hurricane activity in the North Atlantic, global natural disaster losses totalled $103bn, $32bn of that sum insured . However, the number of people killed dropped to 8,700 last year from 25,400 the previous year. Last year’s losses were “in the mid-range” after three years of relatively low costs, Munich Re board member Torsten Jeworrek said in a statement. He stressed that “losses in a single year are obviously random and cannot be seen as a trend”. The company said there was an “exceptional” number of floods, which accounted for 34% of overall losses, compared with an average of 21% over the past decade. Those included $6bn in losses, about half of them insured, resulting from storms and flooding in Europe – particularly in Germany and the Paris region – in May and June. Jeworrek said that “the high percentage of uninsured losses, especially in emerging markets and developing countries, remains a concern”. Topics  Natural disasters and extreme weather   Insurance industry   Flooding   Climate change   Hurricane Matthew     Japan   China   El Niño southern oscillation

Last year saw highest costs from natural disasters since 2012, according to data from reinsurer Munich Re

Last year saw the highest costs from natural disasters since 2012, with two earthquakes in Japan in April accounting for the heaviest losses, a leading insurer has said.

Climate change threatens ability of insurers to manage risk Read more

Losses from natural disasters worldwide totalled $175bn (£142bn) last year, some $50bn of which was covered by insurance, Munich Re said in an annual survey on Wednesday.

The earthquakes on Japan’s southern Kyushu island caused $31bn worth of damage, with $6bn of the costs covered by insurance. Floods in China in June and July caused $20bn in costs, only $300m of which was insured.

The third-costliest disaster was Hurricane Matthew, which hit the Caribbean and the eastern US in October. It incurred losses totalling $10.2bn, of which $3.8bn was covered by insurance.

In 2015, when the El Niño weather phenomenon reduced hurricane activity in the North Atlantic, global natural disaster losses totalled $103bn, $32bn of that sum insured. However, the number of people killed dropped to 8,700 last year from 25,400 the previous year.

Michael Bloomberg and Mark Carney: How to make a profit from defeating climate change Read more

Last year’s losses were “in the mid-range” after three years of relatively low costs, Munich Re board member Torsten Jeworrek said in a statement. He stressed that “losses in a single year are obviously random and cannot be seen as a trend”.

The company said there was an “exceptional” number of floods, which accounted for 34% of overall losses, compared with an average of 21% over the past decade.

Those included $6bn in losses, about half of them insured, resulting from storms and flooding in Europe – particularly in Germany and the Paris region – in May and June.

Jeworrek said that “the high percentage of uninsured losses, especially in emerging markets and developing countries, remains a concern”.