January 9 is the day people are most likely to try and start an affair
January 9 is the day people are most likely to start an affair


New Year's resolutions: get fitter, read more, quit smoking... have an affair?

Data from thousands of cheaters has found that they're most likely to try and start an affair in the New Year... and this year it's on January 9 to be precise.

Gleeden, a dating website for people who want to cheat on their partners, has revealed that their site is the busiest on the second Monday after Christmas.

Cheater: Data released by Gleeden, a dating site for people wanting affairs, has revealed that people are most likely to try and start an affair on January 9

For 2017, that means January 9 is the day your partner is most likely to have wandering eyes.

The site, which boasts 3.3 million members, had revealed that user activity always increases in the new year.

'On Monday the 11th of January 2016, the site also recorded an increase in registrations of more than 320 per cent,' a Gleeden spokesperson revealed.

'This trend is observed throughout the month of January.'

Steamy: The site sees a 320 per cent increase in registrations in January (stock image)

The results were mirrored in a survey of 13,000 of Gleeden's users, many of whom said they were more active on the site in January.

When asked 'Do you think you'll be active on Gleeden at the beginning of the year?' 7 1 per cent of people answered yes.

When asked why this was, 52 per cent of people said it was because they wanted to 'regain their freedom' after the holidays.

Freedom: A survey on 13,000 Gleeden members found that most people cheat in January to 'regain their freedom' after the holidays

Solene Paillet, the director of communications at Gleeden, says that it's not surprising that there is a sharp increase in people using their site in January.

'By registering with Gleeden or spending more time on the online platform, members are seeking a means to inject a little excitement into their everyday life,' Ms Paillet explained.