Thanks to Her 'Love Story,' Gwen Stefani Is the New Face of Revlon
Thanks to Her 'Love Story,' Gwen Stefani Is the New Face of Revlon
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Thanks to Her 'Love Story,' Gwen Stefani Is the New Face of Revlon  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Gwen Stefani has started 2017 off with a bang, being named . The campaign was announced on Revlon's Instagram January 2 with a video of Stefani done up by her longtime styling team, including "makeup exorcist" Gregory Arlt and hairstylist Danilo . The singer will join the ranks of other notable faces, including Ciara , Olivia Wilde and Halle Barry.  In an interview with , Stefani said her biggest draw to joining the global brand was their "Choose Love" campaign. "They have this Choose Love campaign, which is full of choice and positivity and dreams and truth and I feel like that’s aligning exactly with where I’m at in my personal life in the last couple of years and how I’ve had to kind of choose love, choose truth, choose to be positive and work my way back to a place of using my gift and sharing my love with people.” New year, new news! So happy to announce that I’ll be choosing love with @revlon as their new global brand ambassador. #ChooseLove A video posted by Gwen Stefani (@gwenstefani) on  , Chief Marketing Officer at Revlon, says he couldn't be happier with their choice. “Gwen will clearly appeal to makeup enthusiasts,” said Karsch. “She’s known far and wide for her red lips , so that’s definitely part of the attractiveness as a brand ambassador for Revlon, but that’s really combined with who she is as a person and also her love story.”  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Gwen Stefani has started 2017 off with a bang, being named Revlon's newest brand ambassador. The campaign was announced on Revlon's Instagram January 2 with a video of Stefani done up by her longtime styling team, including "makeup exorcist" Gregory Arlt and hairstylist Danilo. The singer will join the ranks of other notable faces, including Ciara, Olivia Wilde and Halle Barry.

In an interview with WWD, Stefani said her biggest draw to joining the global brand was their "Choose Love" campaign. "They have this Choose Love campaign, which is full of choice and positivity and dreams and truth and I feel like that’s aligning exactly with where I’m at in my personal life in the last couple of years and how I’ve had to kind of choose love, choose truth, choose to be positive and work my way back to a place of using my gift and sharing my love with people.”

New year, new news! So happy to announce that I’ll be choosing love with @revlon as their new global brand ambassador. #ChooseLove A video posted by Gwen Stefani (@gwenstefani) on Jan 3, 2017 at 10:26am PST

Benjamin Karsch, Chief Marketing Officer at Revlon, says he couldn't be happier with their choice. “Gwen will clearly appeal to makeup enthusiasts,” said Karsch. “She’s known far and wide for her red lips, so that’s definitely part of the attractiveness as a brand ambassador for Revlon, but that’s really combined with who she is as a person and also her love story.”