Wendy’s Tweeted (And Quickly Deleted) A Pepe Meme
Wendy's Tweeted (And Quickly Deleted) A Pepe Meme
The Wendy’s Twitter account has been pretty wild lately, but got even wilder Wednesday when it tweeted — and quickly deleted — a Pepe meme. Wendy's just tweeted and deleted this The tweet comes a day after the fast-food company roasted someone on Twitter so hard they literally deleted their account . The Pepe tweet — which was up for less than 15 minutes — was in response to a simple request for memes. @Wendys Got any memes? Understandably, the tweet went pretty nuts due to Pepe’s recent association with the alt-right. .@Wendys new trolling social media strategy makes zero sense. For the most part, people just trolled them back. Damn...@Wendys 
Rethink this I will be boycotting @Wendys until they repoast the rare pepe Though a lot of alt-righters are mad that Wendy’s deleted the meme. And Daily Stormer, a white supremacist and neo-Nazi website, endorsed Wendy’s as “the official fast food chain of the alt-right.” Coincidentally, a BuzzFeed News reporter tweeted this just about 24 hours before the Wendy’s tweet went up. What will be the first fast food brand to tweet out a nazi pepe for likes? So, all in all, it was a weird — and seemingly inevitable — moment. sometimes the internet is horrible. and sometimes nazis get mad at a fast food chain because they deleted a pepe. This is a good day if u can't handle me at my wendy's roasting the shit out of u
u don't deserve me at my wendy's has a meme folder and pepe is in it so fuck u Amy Brown, the social media manager at Wendy’s, told BuzzFeed News the tweet was deleted due to a community manager being “unaware of the recent political connotations associated with Pepe memes.” “Since this used to be purely an innocuous meme, he had this fan content saved from a year or two ago,” she said.   Is The Economy Getting Better? The Answer Depends On...    Alongside Trump, Intel Reannounces Arizona Factory...

if u can't handle me at my wendy's roasting the shit out of u u don't deserve me at my wendy's has a meme folder and pepe is in it so fuck u