Bangkok Was The World's Most Visited City In 2016 [Infographic]
Bangkok Was The World's Most Visited City In 2016 [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. BANGKOK, THAILAND - AUGUST 29: Tourists write wishes on a fabric on display at Wat Arun temple in Bangkok, Thailand. (Photo by Borja Sanchez-Trillo/Getty Images) New York, London and Paris all attract hordes of visitors every year but they all trail Bangkok in popularity. According to Mastercard's Global Destination Cities Index , the Thai capital had 21.5 million visitors who stayed at least one night in 2016. By comparison, London had 19.9 million overnight visitors last year while Paris had 18 million. The Big Apple was even further down the list with 12.8 million. Bangkok is joined by several other Asian and Middle Eastern cities in the popularity stakes. Dubai is firmly established in the top five with over 15 million overnight visitors every year. Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Seoul and Tokyo also attracted over 10 million people in 2016. All of those visitors certainly splashed the cash and nowhere saw as much spending as Dubai. Last year, overnight visitors to Dubai spent a whopping $31.3 billion, a huge distance ahead of London's $19.8 billion. Even though Bangkok attracted the most visitors of any city worldwide, it came fourth for overall spending with $14.8 billion.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

New York, London and Paris all attract hordes of visitors every year but they all trail Bangkok in popularity. According to Mastercard's Global Destination Cities Index, the Thai capital had 21.5 million visitors who stayed at least one night in 2016. By comparison, London had 19.9 million overnight visitors last year while Paris had 18 million. The Big Apple was even further down the list with 12.8 million.

Bangkok is joined by several other Asian and Middle Eastern cities in the popularity stakes. Dubai is firmly established in the top five with over 15 million overnight visitors every year. Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Seoul and Tokyo also attracted over 10 million people in 2016. All of those visitors certainly splashed the cash and nowhere saw as much spending as Dubai. Last year, overnight visitors to Dubai spent a whopping $31.3 billion, a huge distance ahead of London's $19.8 billion. Even though Bangkok attracted the most visitors of any city worldwide, it came fourth for overall spending with $14.8 billion.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)