American Pharoah announces he’s a new dad on Facebook

A legacy is born — literally. On Tuesday, American Pharoah became a dad for what is believed to be the first time when a horse named Kakadu gave birth to a yet-to-be-named male foal. And because it is the 21st century, of course American Pharoah (or, rather, the purveyors of his official fan page) made the announcement on Facebook. The colt was born at 12:30 a.m. at Brookdale Farm in Versailles, Ky., one of many places where the Triple Crown winner’s proverbial oats have been sown. (According to CNN , American Pharoah has mixed with more than 100 mares since he retired last year.) For every healthy foal sired, the owners of American Pharoah’s stud rights, Ashford Stud, are said to get $200,000. Was it worth it? Time will tell, but so far, so good, according to Brookdale Farm’s Fred Seitz Jr. “It’s very exciting,” he told Bloodhorse.com on Tuesday. “For a first foal, he’s a very nice, very attractive type. Personality wise, I think he seems like he’s going to take after his dad with that mellow-type personality. Most babies are kind of skittish and want to run around behind their mother, but he’s not that type. You walk in the stall and he comes right up to you and starts chewing on your hand. He seems to be real bold and have that fun personality . . . He’s what you look for if you’re breeding thoroughbreds, I think.” Should this horse ever hit the racing circuit, he will have big horseshoes to fill. American Pharoah made history in 2015 when he became the 12th Triple Crown winner after dominating the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes and the Belmont Stakes. He topped off the season with an additional win at the Breeders’ Cup Classic to earn more than $8.6 million in prize money.



American Pharoah is a new dad. (Mark Humphrey/AP)

A legacy is born — literally. On Tuesday, American Pharoah became a dad for what is believed to be the first time when a horse named Kakadu gave birth to a yet-to-be-named male foal. And because it is the 21st century, of course American Pharoah (or, rather, the purveyors of his official fan page) made the announcement on Facebook.

The colt was born at 12:30 a.m. at Brookdale Farm in Versailles, Ky., one of many places where the Triple Crown winner’s proverbial oats have been sown. (According to CNN, American Pharoah has mixed with more than 100 mares since he retired last year.)

For every healthy foal sired, the owners of American Pharoah’s stud rights, Ashford Stud, are said to get $200,000.

Was it worth it? Time will tell, but so far, so good, according to Brookdale Farm’s Fred Seitz Jr.

“It’s very exciting,” he told Bloodhorse.com on Tuesday. “For a first foal, he’s a very nice, very attractive type. Personality wise, I think he seems like he’s going to take after his dad with that mellow-type personality. Most babies are kind of skittish and want to run around behind their mother, but he’s not that type. You walk in the stall and he comes right up to you and starts chewing on your hand. He seems to be real bold and have that fun personality . . . He’s what you look for if you’re breeding thoroughbreds, I think.”

Should this horse ever hit the racing circuit, he will have big horseshoes to fill. American Pharoah made history in 2015 when he became the 12th Triple Crown winner after dominating the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes and the Belmont Stakes. He topped off the season with an additional win at the Breeders’ Cup Classic to earn more than $8.6 million in prize money.