Headphones are finally getting less dumb about music
Headphones are finally getting less dumb about music
LAS VEGAS — The iPhone 7 has turbocharged the move to wireless headphones, but even without cords, we're still tethered to our phones in a very real way. Think about what you need to do to change up your music. Regardless of your cable situation, you need to pull out your phone, tap on your music app, navigate to another playlist or song, hit play, then put the phone back in your pocket. Why can't you just speak what you want to play — your headphones have a mic, after all, but Siri isn't much good beyond skipping tracks and doing some basic stuff with Apple Music. SEE ALSO: Musical Christmas necktie accidentally undercuts parliament member's passionate speech Here's where a new company called Speak Music is trying to fill in the gap. Using voice control to play music, especially when working out, would be extremely useful, and the company has done the heavy lift of figuring out how to implement voice commands for disparate services, including IHeartRadio and Spotify Premium. It calls the tech Melody, and instead of using voice just for simple things like increasing the volume or skipping tracks, a listener could say, "Switch to Workout Playlist 3, and start with track 2." "It's really empowering the next generation of headphones to make them personal music assistants, and that's what Melody is." "There are literally thousands of different voice commands," explains Mark Anderson, CEO of Speak Music. "Play any song, any artist, any playlist, any radio station, play songs by mood or activity. It's really empowering the next generation of headphones to make them personal music assistants, and that's what Melody is." It all sounds great, but the tech needs to be built into actual hardware for it to reach people (no one's going to download an app for this). And that's happening: At CES 2017, Speak Music announced a partnership with Monster to bring its voice control to the company's wireless headphones. It's also coming to some of iHome's Bluetooth speakers. "Since most people are listening to music through headphones, that really needs to be the command-and-control center of your music experience," Anderson said. "The idea is to untether yourself from this small screen. Because it's very difficult to find what you're looking for and stop what you're doing to find the music you want to play." Monster flavorfully refers to the tech as "His Master's Voice" and is building it into two headphone models, Elements (starts at $199) and Clarity (starts at $90), shipping in the spring. The company is also debuting its first "truly" wireless earphones (without Melody), similar to Apple's AirPods. There will be two models: The AirLink Elements ($299.95, spring) and the AirLink iSport (no price or availability yet). If it works, Speak Music's tech would be a step forward for voice control. While Siri and Alexa do decently with their native services, their ability to perform detailed commands with other music is very limited. Melody's more universal voice control would solve a real problem — and maybe even help us get back some of that time we spend staring at our phones. BONUS: Faraday Future just unveiled a super fast Tesla competitor — here's what it looks like

LAS VEGAS — The iPhone 7 has turbocharged the move to wireless headphones, but even without cords, we're still tethered to our phones in a very real way.

Think about what you need to do to change up your music. Regardless of your cable situation, you need to pull out your phone, tap on your music app, navigate to another playlist or song, hit play, then put the phone back in your pocket. Why can't you just speak what you want to play — your headphones have a mic, after all, but Siri isn't much good beyond skipping tracks and doing some basic stuff with Apple Music.

Here's where a new company called Speak Music is trying to fill in the gap. Using voice control to play music, especially when working out, would be extremely useful, and the company has done the heavy lift of figuring out how to implement voice commands for disparate services, including IHeartRadio and Spotify Premium. It calls the tech Melody, and instead of using voice just for simple things like increasing the volume or skipping tracks, a listener could say, "Switch to Workout Playlist 3, and start with track 2."

"It's really empowering the next generation of headphones to make them personal music assistants, and that's what Melody is."

"There are literally thousands of different voice commands," explains Mark Anderson, CEO of Speak Music. "Play any song, any artist, any playlist, any radio station, play songs by mood or activity. It's really empowering the next generation of headphones to make them personal music assistants, and that's what Melody is."

It all sounds great, but the tech needs to be built into actual hardware for it to reach people (no one's going to download an app for this). And that's happening: At CES 2017, Speak Music announced a partnership with Monster to bring its voice control to the company's wireless headphones. It's also coming to some of iHome's Bluetooth speakers.

"Since most people are listening to music through headphones, that really needs to be the command-and-control center of your music experience," Anderson said. "The idea is to untether yourself from this small screen. Because it's very difficult to find what you're looking for and stop what you're doing to find the music you want to play."

Monster flavorfully refers to the tech as "His Master's Voice" and is building it into two headphone models, Elements (starts at $199) and Clarity (starts at $90), shipping in the spring. The company is also debuting its first "truly" wireless earphones (without Melody), similar to Apple's AirPods. There will be two models: The AirLink Elements ($299.95, spring) and the AirLink iSport (no price or availability yet).

If it works, Speak Music's tech would be a step forward for voice control. While Siri and Alexa do decently with their native services, their ability to perform detailed commands with other music is very limited. Melody's more universal voice control would solve a real problem — and maybe even help us get back some of that time we spend staring at our phones.