Body found in frozen Colo. pond identified as missing 6-year-old boy
Body found in frozen Colo. pond identified as missing 6-year-old boy
David Puckett.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  -- Authorities have confirmed that a body found in an icy pond in suburban Denver is that of a 6-year-old boy who apparently wandered off from his home on New Year’s Eve . An autopsy performed Wednesday showed David Puckett didn’t suffer any traumatic injuries. But the coroner’s office said additional tests were needed to determine exactly how he died. Before the grim discovery, police said foul play isn’t suspected, but asked for help to find David as quickly as possible partly because of coming cold weather.  Police said David had wandered off before. Aurora Police Chief Nicholas Metz said authorities are treating the pond as a crime scene to ensure a thorough investigation. Police are also still investigating what led up to his death. Dozens of law enforcement officers and volunteers searched for him after his family reported him missing Saturday. The pond in the park near his home wasn’t searched until Tuesday when a dog picked up a scent there. His mother said he was only wearing a light jacket. On Sunday night, she issued a tearful appeal for people to help find him. Puckett, a student at Dartmouth Elementary School, had a slight learning disability, CBS Denver previously reported .                Tweet     Stumble     Email

AURORA, Colo. -- Authorities have confirmed that a body found in an icy pond in suburban Denver is that of a 6-year-old boy who apparently wandered off from his home on New Year’s Eve.



An autopsy performed Wednesday showed David Puckett didn’t suffer any traumatic injuries. But the coroner’s office said additional tests were needed to determine exactly how he died.

Before the grim discovery, police said foul play isn’t suspected, but asked for help to find David as quickly as possible partly because of coming cold weather. Police said David had wandered off before.

Aurora Police Chief Nicholas Metz said authorities are treating the pond as a crime scene to ensure a thorough investigation.

Police are also still investigating what led up to his death.



Dozens of law enforcement officers and volunteers searched for him after his family reported him missing Saturday. The pond in the park near his home wasn’t searched until Tuesday when a dog picked up a scent there.

His mother said he was only wearing a light jacket. On Sunday night, she issued a tearful appeal for people to help find him.

Puckett, a student at Dartmouth Elementary School, had a slight learning disability, CBS Denver previously reported.