Theresa May to set out 'Brexit vision' and warn UK will quit single market if it is not given control over borders
Theresa May to set out 'Brexit vision' and warn UK will quit single market if it is not given control over borders
heresa May will threaten to take Britain out of the single market unless the UK is given full control of its borders in a significant Brexit speech designed to counter claims she has no plan for leaving the EU. The Prime Minister will outline her “vision for Britain outside of the EU” in a major speech later this month that will focus on the economy and immigration. Both David Davis , the Brexit Secretary, and Boris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, are having “significant” input into the speech, sources said. However, Liam Fox, the Trade Secretary considered one of the “three Brexiteers” alongside Mr Davis and Mr Johnson, is understood to have been sidelined. The speech will be seen as a retort to claims of “muddled thinking” in Mrs May’s Government by Sir Ivan Rogers , who on Tuesday resigned as Britain’s EU ambassador after a series of rows with Downing Street. Last night the Government announced that Sir Ivan’s successor will be Sir Tim Barrow, a close ally of Mrs May and Mr Johnson and former ambassador to Russia who has experience negotiating with Vladimir Putin. He was described by ministers as an “optimist” whose outlook is in “stark contrast” to the “pessimism” from Sir Ivan, which infuriated Mrs May’s senior team. he Prime Minister will use her Brexit speech later this month to “define” her approach to the upcoming negotiations with Brussels, sources said. She will make clear that while Britain wants access to the single market, the Government is not afraid to walk away if Brussels attempts to resist Mrs May’s demands for full control of the UK’s borders. It will infuriate Remain campaigners who are demanding that Britain retains membership of the single market. However, it will be welcomed by Eurosceptic Tories pushing for a “hard Brexit” which gives Britain a clean break from the EU. s well as the single market, the speech is expected to address the issue of the customs union and will heavily focus on immigration. Mrs May will make clear that immigration control is her red line in the negotiations with Brussels and that freedom of movement is no longer an option for Britain. Mrs May has been accused by critics of being overly controlling and refusing to consult members of her Cabinet before making decisions. However, the disclosure that Mr Davis and Mr Johnson are so heavily involved in a speech that many believe will come to define Mrs May’s premiership will delight senior Eurosceptics who had become concerned that Leave campaigners in the Government did not have a sufficiently central role. ne source predicted that Mrs May will make the speech after a Supreme Court ruling which will decide whether she has to formally consult Parliament before triggering Article 50, which begins formal Brexit negotiations. “It’s going to be incredibly significant,” one source said. “It will cover everything from the single market to immigration. It will be substantial.” One minister said: "She needs to make clear that Britain is prepared to leave the single market or they [the European Union] will try to screw us down. "She needs to send a strong message ahead of the negotiations. Britain can always say we would like access to the single market but not full membership." nother minister said: "Theresa needs to make this her big speech. David Cameron's Bloomberg Speech [on Europe in 2013] came too late, the scene had already been set. Theresa can learn from that." Downing Street wants to get back on the front foot in the wake of the shock resignation of Sir Ivan, who had been “cut adrift” by Mrs May and her allies because of his negative view of Brexit. Ministers said that while Sir Ivan was a "pessimist", his successor Sir Tim is a "pragmatic problem solver" who is prepared to give the "unvarnished truth" but also to offer solutions. ir Tim was appointed political director general at the Foreign Office last March after leaving his role in Moscow. He has had two previous stints working as part of the UK's Permanent Representation to the EU (UKREP). It emerged that Sir Tim and Brexit Secretary Mr Davis were at Foreign Office at the same time in the 1990s. They did not work directly together in the same office, as Sir Tim worked with different minister when Mr Davis was Europe minister from 1994 to 1997. Dominic Raab, a former justice minister and senior Leave campaigner, said: “Sir Tim Barrow is a career Kremlinologist, which will serve him well going into bat with the EU. He's also a fixer who will bring some fresh thinking. It's time to get behind the Government and deliver Brexit for the benefit of the whole UK.”

Theresa May will threaten to take Britain out of the single market unless the UK is given full control of its borders in a significant Brexit speech designed to counter claims she has no plan for leaving the EU.

The Prime Minister will outline her “vision for Britain outside of the EU” in a major speech later this month that will focus on the economy and immigration.

Both David Davis, the Brexit Secretary, and Boris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, are having “significant” input into the speech, sources said.

However, Liam Fox, the Trade Secretary considered one of the “three Brexiteers” alongside Mr Davis and Mr Johnson, is understood to have been sidelined.

The speech will be seen as a retort to claims of “muddled thinking” in Mrs May’s Government by Sir Ivan Rogers, who on Tuesday resigned as Britain’s EU ambassador after a series of rows with Downing Street.

Last night the Government announced that Sir Ivan’s successor will be Sir Tim Barrow, a close ally of Mrs May and Mr Johnson and former ambassador to Russia who has experience negotiating with Vladimir Putin.

He was described by ministers as an “optimist” whose outlook is in “stark contrast” to the “pessimism” from Sir Ivan, which infuriated Mrs May’s senior team.