CCTV shows Berlin terrorist Anis Amri travels through Amsterdam and Brussels
CCTV shows Anis Amri travelling through Brussels after Berlin crash


CCTV footage has shown the Berlin Christmas Market terrorist Anis Amri travelling through Amsterdam and Brussels just days after the attack.

Amri, who was shot dead by Italian police in Milan on December 23, was seen walking through Nijmegen railway station in the Netherlands at around 11.30am on December 21.

He was then seen travelling to Amsterdam train station at 1pm and in Brussels later that evening between 7pm and 9pm.

Belgian police have said Anis Amri was caught on CCTV travelling through Brussels two days after the German Christmas market attack

A total of 12 people died and 48 were injured after the 24-year-old, who had pledged allegiance to ISIS, hijacked Lukasz Urban's lorry and steered it into a crowd of shoppers.

Earlier today, German authorities said they had arrested and detained a 26-year-old Tunisian man, called Bilel A. and are investigating whether he played a role in the attack.

Police on Tuesday evening searched the living quarters of the man after he was found to have had dinner with Amri a day before the crash, spokeswoman Frauke Koehler said.

'This contact person is a 26-year-old Tunisian. We are investigating him for possible participation in the attack,' she told reporters.

A photograph released of Anis Amri

Koehler said the investigation had shown Amri met the second Tunisian man in a restaurant in central Berlin on the eve of the attack and that the two engaged in 'very intense discussions'.

'That triggered the suspicion for us that the suspect, this 26-year-old Tunisian, was possibly involved in the act, or at the very least knew of the attack plans of Anis Amri,' she said.

Koehler said there was insufficient evidence at this point to charge the man with any role in the Christmas market carnage, though had been previously investigated on suspicion of planning a violent attack.

Officials were evaluating communications devices seized during the raid of the man's accommodations in a Berlin refugee centre, and in the course of a second raid the same evening at the flat of another man who had contact with Amri.

In a separate statement, the Berlin state prosecutor's office said it had detained the 26-year-old Tunisian on Tuesday for suspected social benefit fraud in three German cities.

A huge memorial has been created for those who died at the Christmas market in Berlin

A spokesman for the Berlin prosecutor's office said Bilel A. had used at least two aliases, Ahmad H. and Abu M., and also claimed to be Egyptian. He was believed to have arrived in Germany in 2014 or perhaps earlier.

Koehler said Amri stared into a surveillance camera at a subway station near the Berlin zoo shortly after the Christmas market attack, and raised his index finger in a gesture sometimes seen in Islamic State propaganda videos.

She said forensic evidence showed that the Polish driver from whom Amri hijacked the truck was fatally shot while sitting in the passenger seat of the vehicle.