Pistol-packing granny scares off armed crook at home
Pistol-packing granny scares off armed crook at home
Second Amendment Pistol-packing granny scares off armed crook at home By  A Texas grandmother wasn't about to let an armed intruder take her alive! Pistol-packing ETX grandma faces down armed intruder » https://t.co/jmF9dSe9zj  pic.twitter.com/F1zzQXXaeP According to KSLA , 74-year-old Rebbie Roberson sat down to watch some TV on Sunday night, January 1st when someone wearing gloves and a mask broke into her home. "When I started to get up, he was in here, on me, with a gun facing me -- right to my face," Roberson said. What she did next took the gunman by surprise. "I had to walk right out in front of him. I didn't know if he was going to kill me or what," Roberson said. Roberson had her own firearm on a table nearby. "I reached over there and grabbed this gun -- and when I swerved around, I pointed it at him and he ran," Roberson said. With her .38-caliber pistol in hand, Roberson said she followed him -- all the while firing her gun and leaving bullet holes in the walls of her home.

A Texas grandmother wasn't about to let an armed intruder take her alive!

Pistol-packing ETX grandma faces down armed intruder » https://t.co/jmF9dSe9zj pic.twitter.com/F1zzQXXaeP — KSLA News 12 (@KSLA) January 4, 2017

DRAMATIC GUNFIGHT IN ARIZONA WALMART CAUGHT ON VIDEO

According to KSLA, 74-year-old Rebbie Roberson sat down to watch some TV on Sunday night, January 1st when someone wearing gloves and a mask broke into her home.

"When I started to get up, he was in here, on me, with a gun facing me -- right to my face," Roberson said.

VIDEO: COWBOY LASSOS ESCAPED CALF FROM HOOD OF COP CRUISER

What she did next took the gunman by surprise.

"I had to walk right out in front of him. I didn't know if he was going to kill me or what," Roberson said.

Roberson had her own firearm on a table nearby.

"I reached over there and grabbed this gun -- and when I swerved around, I pointed it at him and he ran," Roberson said.

With her .38-caliber pistol in hand, Roberson said she followed him -- all the while firing her gun and leaving bullet holes in the walls of her home.

Click for more from Fox 6.