Caitlyn Jenner Has an Impressive New MAC Collection on the Way
Caitlyn Jenner Has an Impressive New MAC Collection on the Way
Former Olympian, reality star and transgender rights activist Caitlyn Jenner has landed yet another makeup collaboration with MAC Cosmetics . Her first product debuted in April with the launch of the Finally Free lipstick . The new line, which will be available on Jan. 5, is fully loaded with lipsticks, eye shadows, and pencils, as well as faux lashes and face powders. “Caitlyn Jenner has fearlessly shared her transition with the world, and her new MAC collection continues that mission, proudly championing all ages, all races and all sexes,” according to a statement from MAC. “Elegant, classic shades for lips, eyes and cheeks are beautifully suited for those who embrace life, in whatever form they choose.” On Tuesday, Jenner wrote in an Instagram post, “The next part of my collaboration with @maccosmetics is coming on Jan 5th! I’m excited for EVERYONE (all races. all ages. all sexes) to fearlessly rock these shades in 2017 #happynewyear #maccaitlynjenner.” With the new collection’s mix of 15 rich rouges, neutral tones, and pretty pinks, each of the pieces has a unique name, such as Rockit!, Beautifully Bare, Kindness, and Tolerance, and is sure to be impactful as well as empowering when worn. Get a sneak peek of the full line below, and be sure to mark your calendars for its release on Jan. 5.

Former Olympian, reality star and transgender rights activist Caitlyn Jenner has landed yet another makeup collaboration with MAC Cosmetics. Her first product debuted in April with the launch of the Finally Free lipstick. The new line, which will be available on Jan. 5, is fully loaded with lipsticks, eye shadows, and pencils, as well as faux lashes and face powders.

“Caitlyn Jenner has fearlessly shared her transition with the world, and her new MAC collection continues that mission, proudly championing all ages, all races and all sexes,” according to a statement from MAC. “Elegant, classic shades for lips, eyes and cheeks are beautifully suited for those who embrace life, in whatever form they choose.”

On Tuesday, Jenner wrote in an Instagram post, “The next part of my collaboration with @maccosmetics is coming on Jan 5th! I’m excited for EVERYONE (all races. all ages. all sexes) to fearlessly rock these shades in 2017 #happynewyear #maccaitlynjenner.”





With the new collection’s mix of 15 rich rouges, neutral tones, and pretty pinks, each of the pieces has a unique name, such as Rockit!, Beautifully Bare, Kindness, and Tolerance, and is sure to be impactful as well as empowering when worn. Get a sneak peek of the full line below, and be sure to mark your calendars for its release on Jan. 5.

The new Caitlyn Jenner cosmetics line by MAC. (Photo: Courtesy of MAC Cosmetics) More

Let’s keep in touch! Follow Yahoo Beauty on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest.



