Justin Timberlake Makes Two Half-Court Shots: Watch
Justin Timberlake Makes Two Half-Court Shots: Watch
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Justin Timberlake Makes Two Half-Court Shots: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Justin Timberlake has long been a known for his high-profile basketball fandom, down to his ownership stake in his hometown Memphis Grizzlies. Timberlake isn't without skills himself -- the pop star was spotted at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on Tuesday (Jan. 3) making two shots from half court. Onlookers loudly cheered for the entertainer as he shot both baskets with ease. During the game, JT hung out with his wife Jessica Biel in the VIP box. The Lakers ultimately took the win against his  Grizzlies, 116-102.  Another thing Timberlake can be proud of is his 2017 iHeartRadio Music Award nomination. “Can’t Stop The Feeling” landed the singer a nod for Song of The Year, where it'll be competing with Sia , The Chainsmokers , Drake , and Twenty One Pilots. The 2017 iHeartRadio Music Awards will be held March 5 at the Forum in Inglewood, California. Take a look at Justin Timberlake’s impressive shooting below. And just in case y'all thought it was a fluke... A video posted by Justin Timberlake (@justintimberlake) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Justin Timberlake plays basketball after watching an NBA basketball game between the Los Angeles Lakers and the Memphis Grizzlies onÂ Jan. 3, 2017Â in Los Angeles.Â

Justin Timberlake has long been a known for his high-profile basketball fandom, down to his ownership stake in his hometown Memphis Grizzlies. Timberlake isn't without skills himself -- the pop star was spotted at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on Tuesday (Jan. 3) making two shots from half court.

Onlookers loudly cheered for the entertainer as he shot both baskets with ease. During the game, JT hung out with his wife Jessica Biel in the VIP box. The Lakers ultimately took the win against his Grizzlies, 116-102.

Another thing Timberlake can be proud of is his 2017 iHeartRadio Music Award nomination. “Can’t Stop The Feeling” landed the singer a nod for Song of The Year, where it'll be competing with Sia, The Chainsmokers, Drake, and Twenty One Pilots. The 2017 iHeartRadio Music Awards will be held March 5 at the Forum in Inglewood, California.

Take a look at Justin Timberlake’s impressive shooting below.