Get 9 Assassin’s Creed Games For Just Rs 1000 On Humble Bundle
Get 9 Assassin’s Creed Games For Just Rs 1000 On Humble Bundle
Get 9 Assassin’s Creed Games For Just Rs 1000 On Humble Bundle This unique Assassin’s Creed Humble Bundle will be available for purchase for the next 12 days, and in little over a day people have purchased about 79,000 bundles with total accumulated cost of over Rs 4 crore!

This is an amazing deal for PC gamers! If you’ve never played any of the Assassin’s Creed games before, or you want to own all of them at once, this is your chance to get nine games from the acclaimed Ubisoft franchise are now available on Humble Bundle for as little as US $15 which is approximately Rs 1000.

The total combined worth of all nine Assassin’s Creed games is over Rs 12,000, but they’re available for purchase for a limited time only through humblebundle.com for just Rs 1000. How is it being sold for so cheap on Humble Bundle? Because the website offers a unique way of purchasing discounted games with no fixed price -- as a consumer, you can pay whatever price you deem fit -- and part of the proceeds are always forwarded to charity.

Through Humble Bundle’s current Assassin’s Creed bundle, you get three installments of Assassin’s Creed Chronicles plus the original Assassin's Creed. Pay above the average cost, which is around US $7.58 right now or Rs 515, you get an additional Assassin’s Creed Liberation HD, and Assassin's Creed 2 and 3. Pay US $15 at least (Rs 1000) or more (if you wish to donate to charity), and you'll unlock the final tier of games as well, with Assassin’s Creed Unity and Brotherhood.

This unique Assassin’s Creed Humble Bundle will be available for purchase for the next 12 days, and in little over a day people have purchased about 79,000 bundles with total accumulated cost of over Rs 4 crore!

The Assassin’s Creed games purchased through this Humble Bundle offer can be played on a Windows PC through Ubisoft’s UPlay digital game download service.