Alabama politician whose parents were prosecuted by Sessions endorses him for attorney general

Albert F. Turner Jr., the son of civil rights activists who were prosecuted by Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions in a controversial voting fraud case 32 years ago, said Wednesday he supports the Alabama lawmaker’s nomination to be attorney general. “My family and I have literally been on the front line of the fight for civil rights my whole life,” said Turner, a county commissioner in Perry County, Ala. “And while I respect the deeply held positions of other civil rights advocates who oppose Senator Sessions, I believe it is important for me to speak out with regard to Senator Sessions personally. . . . He is not a racist.” Turner’s endorsement is the latest salvo in the growing battle over President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Sessions, 70, an Alabama senator for the past 20 years, whose Senate confirmation hearing is scheduled to begin Jan. 10. Six NAACP protesters, including the NAACP’s national president, were arrested Tuesday night after they held a sit-in at Sessions’s Mobile, Ala., office. Former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick, a former assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil rights division, sent a three-page letter urging the Senate Judiciary Committee to reject Sessions. More than 100 former U.S. attorneys who served under Democratic and Republican presidents wrote to the Senate this week in support of his confirmation. A group of more than 1,100 law school professors from 170 law schools in 48 states sent a letter opposing him. On Wednesday, the American Civil Liberties Union, which does not take positions supporting or opposing nominations, released a report that is highly critical of Sessions’s record on ­immigration, abortion and ­criminal justice. “Jeff Sessions is a strident conservative and consistently opposes progressive policies and nominees,” the report concludes. The ACLU also criticizes Sessions on his civil rights positions and highlights the Perry County case that involved Turner’s parents. Sessions brought the voting fraud case against Evelyn Turner, her husband, Albert Turner Sr., an aide to Martin Luther King Jr., and another civil rights worker, in 1985. His office charged the “Marion Three” — named after the Perry County town where the fraud allegedly took place — with tampering with absentee ballots cast by mostly elderly black ­voters to favor their candidate. A jury of seven blacks and five whites found the defendants — who faced decades in jail — not guilty. “I have known Senator Sessions for many years, beginning with the voter fraud case in Perry County in which my parents were defendants,” Turner said in a statement. “My differences in policy and ideology with him do not translate to personal malice. He is not a racist. As I have said before, at no time then or now has Jeff Sessions said anything derogatory about my family. He was a prosecutor at the federal level with a job to do.” Turner said that he believes Sessions “will be fair in his application of the law and the Constitution; as such I support his nomination to be the next attorney general of the United States.” Evelyn Turner, Albert Turner Sr.’s widow, has spoken out against Sessions and she dismissed her son’s view of him. She said that her son did not understand what she and her husband had gone through. “He was in college, at Birmingham,” she said. “He was not in the house.” Evelyn Turner’s son has ­advised her to forgive Sessions, but she told him, “you weren’t indicted.” For the first confirmation hearing of a Trump nominee, Sessions will come before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which he has served for many years. Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the committee, is apparently so confident of Sessions’s confirmation that when he released the names of new and returning members of the committee Tuesday, Sessions’s name was no longer on the list.  Ellen Nakashima contributed to this report.

Albert F. Turner Jr., the son of civil rights activists who were prosecuted by Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions in a controversial voting fraud case 32 years ago, said Wednesday he supports the Alabama lawmaker’s nomination to be attorney general.

“My family and I have literally been on the front line of the fight for civil rights my whole life,” said Turner, a county commissioner in Perry County, Ala. “And while I respect the deeply held positions of other civil rights advocates who oppose Senator Sessions, I believe it is important for me to speak out with regard to Senator Sessions personally. . . . He is not a racist.”

Turner’s endorsement is the latest salvo in the growing battle over President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Sessions, 70, an Alabama senator for the past 20 years, whose Senate confirmation hearing is scheduled to begin Jan. 10.

Six NAACP protesters, including the NAACP’s national president, were arrested Tuesday night after they held a sit-in at Sessions’s Mobile, Ala., office. Former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick, a former assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil rights division, sent a three-page letter urging the Senate Judiciary Committee to reject Sessions. More than 100 former U.S. attorneys who served under Democratic and Republican presidents wrote to the Senate this week in support of his confirmation. A group of more than 1,100 law school professors from 170 law schools in 48 states sent a letter opposing him.

On Wednesday, the American Civil Liberties Union, which does not take positions supporting or opposing nominations, released a report that is highly critical of Sessions’s record on ­immigration, abortion and ­criminal justice.

(Monica Akhtar/The Washington Post)

“Jeff Sessions is a strident conservative and consistently opposes progressive policies and nominees,” the report concludes. The ACLU also criticizes Sessions on his civil rights positions and highlights the Perry County case that involved Turner’s parents.

Sessions brought the voting fraud case against Evelyn Turner, her husband, Albert Turner Sr., an aide to Martin Luther King Jr., and another civil rights worker, in 1985. His office charged the “Marion Three” — named after the Perry County town where the fraud allegedly took place — with tampering with absentee ballots cast by mostly elderly black ­voters to favor their candidate. A jury of seven blacks and five whites found the defendants — who faced decades in jail — not guilty.

“I have known Senator Sessions for many years, beginning with the voter fraud case in Perry County in which my parents were defendants,” Turner said in a statement. “My differences in policy and ideology with him do not translate to personal malice. He is not a racist. As I have said before, at no time then or now has Jeff Sessions said anything derogatory about my family. He was a prosecutor at the federal level with a job to do.”

Turner said that he believes Sessions “will be fair in his application of the law and the Constitution; as such I support his nomination to be the next attorney general of the United States.”

Evelyn Turner, Albert Turner Sr.’s widow, has spoken out against Sessions and she dismissed her son’s view of him. She said that her son did not understand what she and her husband had gone through. “He was in college, at Birmingham,” she said. “He was not in the house.”

Evelyn Turner’s son has ­advised her to forgive Sessions, but she told him, “you weren’t indicted.”

For the first confirmation hearing of a Trump nominee, Sessions will come before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which he has served for many years. Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the committee, is apparently so confident of Sessions’s confirmation that when he released the names of new and returning members of the committee Tuesday, Sessions’s name was no longer on the list.

(Dalton Bennett/The Washington Post)

Ellen Nakashima contributed to this report.