Swami Om Threatens Bigg Boss Makers, SRK Teases Fans With 'O Zalima' Teaser And More From Ent
Swami Om Threatens Bigg Boss Makers, SRK Teases Fans With 'O Zalima' Teaser And More From Ent
Swami Om Threatens Bigg Boss Makers, SRK Teases Fans With 'O Zalima' Teaser And More From Ent 1. SRK Teases Fans With A Glimpse Of Raees' Song 'O Zalima', Recites Its Lyrics In His Own Voice After back to back posters and 'Laila Main Laila' song, SRK took to his social media accounts to tease his fans with a glimpse of another song and he attached the lyrics in the video and even recited the lines in his own voice. 2. Swami Om Threatens The Makers Of Violence & Shutting Down Bigg Boss If They Don't Make Him Win! A report claims that Swami Om started shouting and screaming and he started threatening that if the makers fail to announce him as the winner, he would resort to extreme violence. 3. Aamir Khan Aims To Make Maharashtra Drought Free In The Next Five Years During a recent media interaction, Aamir said, “It is our dream to make Maharashtra drought-free in five years. And it is our good fortune that Maharashtra got a Chief Minister who has pledged to solve the water crisis. His political will is really strong." 4. Farhan Akhtar Gives The Perfect Response To Abu Azmi's Remarks On Bengaluru Mass Molestation Farhan took to Twitter and he wrote, "Women should not dress like westerners b'coz men dressed like westerners are molesters, says the man in the shirt.#oxy(deprived)morons" 5. Salim Khan-Aamir Khan Condemn The Shameful Bengaluru Incident, Call For Strengthening Of Laws Salim Khan didn't just express his opinion, he even tagged PM Modi in the tweets and urged him to look into it immediately. For Aamir, having stricter rules and faster dispensation of justice to the victims is the best way to curb such incidents. He added, “Law and order will become very strict and so will judiciary. In America, when such an incident happens within two or three months the culprit gets punished and the case is closed. When this will happen here, change will happen. In today’s times, those who molest women think that nothing will happen to them. When examples are set before them that of culprits getting punished and being thrown behind bars, that is when the situation will change and criminals will feel scared. It is important to do that. Through my films and other things, I strive to increase sensitivity among women on such issues."

1. SRK Teases Fans With A Glimpse Of Raees' Song 'O Zalima', Recites Its Lyrics In His Own Voice

After back to back posters and 'Laila Main Laila' song, SRK took to his social media accounts to tease his fans with a glimpse of another song and he attached the lyrics in the video and even recited the lines in his own voice.

2. Swami Om Threatens The Makers Of Violence & Shutting Down Bigg Boss If They Don't Make Him Win!

Colors

A report claims that Swami Om started shouting and screaming and he started threatening that if the makers fail to announce him as the winner, he would resort to extreme violence.

3. Aamir Khan Aims To Make Maharashtra Drought Free In The Next Five Years

During a recent media interaction, Aamir said, “It is our dream to make Maharashtra drought-free in five years. And it is our good fortune that Maharashtra got a Chief Minister who has pledged to solve the water crisis. His political will is really strong."

4. Farhan Akhtar Gives The Perfect Response To Abu Azmi's Remarks On Bengaluru Mass Molestation

MARD

Farhan took to Twitter and he wrote, "Women should not dress like westerners b'coz men dressed like westerners are molesters, says the man in the shirt.#oxy(deprived)morons"

5. Salim Khan-Aamir Khan Condemn The Shameful Bengaluru Incident, Call For Strengthening Of Laws

Salim Khan didn't just express his opinion, he even tagged PM Modi in the tweets and urged him to look into it immediately. For Aamir, having stricter rules and faster dispensation of justice to the victims is the best way to curb such incidents. He added, “Law and order will become very strict and so will judiciary. In America, when such an incident happens within two or three months the culprit gets punished and the case is closed. When this will happen here, change will happen. In today’s times, those who molest women think that nothing will happen to them. When examples are set before them that of culprits getting punished and being thrown behind bars, that is when the situation will change and criminals will feel scared. It is important to do that. Through my films and other things, I strive to increase sensitivity among women on such issues."