A 16-Year-Old Girl Was Saved From Pimps, All Thanks To This Uber Driver's Alertness
A 16-Year-Old Girl Was Saved From Pimps, All Thanks To This Uber Driver's Alertness
A 16-Year-Old Girl Was Saved From Pimps, All Thanks To This Uber Driver's Alertness Drivers nowadays have a responsibility toward their passengers - to ensure their riders' safety in every sense of the word. In India, where we hear cases of drivers molesting and raping women, the integrity is only rarely witnessed. Hence, as we present this story, we hope Indian drivers can take a leaf out of this Uber driver's tale wherein he saved his 16-year-old passenger from falling prey to the hands of pimps. Keith Avila who drives an Uber in Sacremento, California, picked up three women passengers on the night of December 27. One of the girls, who looked like a 12-year-old, was wearing a short skirt and that immediately set the alarm off for Avila. The women were on their way to a Holiday Inn in the countryside when one of the older girls asked the younger one to carefully pay attention to what she had to say. Avila then described how the conversation went. "They were describing what they were going to do when they get there: 'Check for guns. Get the money before you start touching up on the guy.'" Avila called the police after he dropped off the passengers to report a possible case of child trafficking. Avila, who's a 34-year-old photographer by the day, had started driving Uber only a few weeks earlier but this incident shot him to instant fame, reported . The police arrested the women and moved the teenager "to an alternative housing location" before having her reunited with her family.

Drivers nowadays have a responsibility toward their passengers - to ensure their riders' safety in every sense of the word. In India, where we hear cases of drivers molesting and raping women, the integrity is only rarely witnessed. Hence, as we present this story, we hope Indian drivers can take a leaf out of this Uber driver's tale wherein he saved his 16-year-old passenger from falling prey to the hands of pimps.

independent

Keith Avila who drives an Uber in Sacremento, California, picked up three women passengers on the night of December 27. One of the girls, who looked like a 12-year-old, was wearing a short skirt and that immediately set the alarm off for Avila.

Facebook

The women were on their way to a Holiday Inn in the countryside when one of the older girls asked the younger one to carefully pay attention to what she had to say.

Avila then described how the conversation went.

"They were describing what they were going to do when they get there: 'Check for guns. Get the money before you start touching up on the guy.'"

Avila called the police after he dropped off the passengers to report a possible case of child trafficking.

And Avila turned out to be right. The 16-year-old was indeed being sold to pimps at the Holiday Inn.

Facebook

Avila, who's a 34-year-old photographer by the day, had started driving Uber only a few weeks earlier but this incident shot him to instant fame, reported The Washington Post.

The police arrested the women and moved the teenager "to an alternative housing location" before having her reunited with her family.

You can watch Avila's Facebook Live here.

Hats off to this guy!