Celebrity Stylist Shun Melson Is the Boss Behind Gucci Mane's Outrageous Looks
Celebrity Stylist Shun Melson Is the Boss Behind Gucci Mane's Outrageous Looks
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Celebrity Stylist Shun Melson Is the Boss Behind Gucci Mane's Outrageous Looks  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Celebrity stylist Shun Melson , much like her star client of 10 years Gucci Mane , has a business acumen as strong and distinct as her art. After a series of mishaps in shoe retail, the Atlanta native found her love of style when she met her first client in the early 2000s, R&B singer Monica . Melson went on to dress the likes of Ludacris and Fantasia and discovered a unique entrepreneurial niche in 2014 while working with gospel singer Tasha Cobbs . Cobbs, who wears a size 16, had trouble finding stylish looks.  “It was the most difficult shopping experience I ever had -- there wasn’t anything cute in stores for her size,” Melson explained to in an exclusive interview. She proceeded to research clothing for full-figured women, found wholesalers in L.A., and created an online boutique for plus-size women craving fashionable pieces. With her thriving retail business and portfolio styling the legendary Guwop, Melson is killing it. Read ’s below for more about Melson, Gucci Mane's favorite brands and what’s in store for 2017. Burgundy duster on Shunmelson.com Boots Alaia Black Zara leggings Chanel backpack #hi-lofaSHUN A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  It’s been amazing. Of course, the majority of the time I styled him he was a size 2X shirt and size 40 pants, but he still loved fashion. If I wanted him to have a designer belt, I would buy two belts and have a tailor stitch them together. If he wanted to wear a designer button-down shirt we would have to wear it open. We always bought the latest and greatest frames and shoes. Proud of you Guwopppppppp!!!! A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  He is so unpredictable. He loves trying new things. Over-the-top, flamboyant, scene-stealer. #undescribable -------- #ineedallmycoinzzz Thank you @exclusivegame and @duckie_confetti A video posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  When did a style article on him. Also, when he was on , Jimmy said he’d never had a guest out-dress the host. My client last night on @jimmykimmellive Killed them!!! When he walked out Jimmy said he never had someone out dress the host-- #proudstylist #louisvuittonblazer #prpsjeans #tomfordturtleneck @laflare1017 great job!!! #grownmanisssh -------- A video posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  I’m excited about transforming Gucci into a more boss look, more suits. And we get to do Fashion Week! McQueen, Anna Karin Karl, Frame, Moschino and Dsquared. #proudstylist ------ @laflare1017 @moschino A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  Expensive shoes!!! Cheetah. Fall FaSHUN----, the green Flowy wrap dress is perfect for sooo many occasions. Size small-3xplus. On SHUNMELSON.COM A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on  Camouflage. It starts with the basics. Build a solid foundation of basics and you cant go wrong -- basic V-neck tee, distressed jeans, a nice leather jacket, a nice blazer, aviator frames.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Gucci Mane performs on stage at Gucci and Friends Homecoming Concert at Fox Theatre on July 22, 2016 in Atlanta.

Celebrity stylist Shun Melson, much like her star client of 10 years Gucci Mane, has a business acumen as strong and distinct as her art. After a series of mishaps in shoe retail, the Atlanta native found her love of style when she met her first client in the early 2000s, R&B singer Monica.

Melson went on to dress the likes of Ludacris and Fantasia and discovered a unique entrepreneurial niche in 2014 while working with gospel singer Tasha Cobbs. Cobbs, who wears a size 16, had trouble finding stylish looks.

“It was the most difficult shopping experience I ever had -- there wasn’t anything cute in stores for her size,” Melson explained to Billboard in an exclusive interview. She proceeded to research clothing for full-figured women, found wholesalers in L.A., and created an online boutique for plus-size women craving fashionable pieces. With her thriving retail business and portfolio styling the legendary Guwop, Melson is killing it.

Read Billboard’s Stylist Spotlight below for more about Melson, Gucci Mane's favorite brands and what’s in store for 2017.

Burgundy duster on Shunmelson.com Boots Alaia Black Zara leggings Chanel backpack #hi-lofaSHUN A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on Nov 5, 2016 at 3:12pm PDT

What has it been like to work for Gucci Mane for 10 years of his career?

It’s been amazing. Of course, the majority of the time I styled him he was a size 2X shirt and size 40 pants, but he still loved fashion.

If I wanted him to have a designer belt, I would buy two belts and have a tailor stitch them together. If he wanted to wear a designer button-down shirt we would have to wear it open. We always bought the latest and greatest frames and shoes.

Proud of you Guwopppppppp!!!! A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on Sep 17, 2016 at 2:45pm PDT

What’s your favorite thing about working as Gucci Mane’s stylist?

He is so unpredictable. He loves trying new things.

Describe his style in three words.

Over-the-top, flamboyant, scene-stealer.

#undescribable -------- #ineedallmycoinzzz Thank you @exclusivegame and @duckie_confetti A video posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on Aug 31, 2016 at 4:31pm PDT

What was your proudest Gucci style moment of 2016?

When Vogue did a style article on him. Also, when he was on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Jimmy said he’d never had a guest out-dress the host.

What are you most excited about for Gucci’s stay in 2017?

I’m excited about transforming Gucci into a more boss look, more suits. And we get to do Fashion Week!

Favorite brands to pull for Gucci?

McQueen, Anna Karin Karl, Frame, Moschino and Dsquared.

#proudstylist ------ @laflare1017 @moschino A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on Oct 31, 2016 at 10:12am PDT

What’s your guilty pleasure, style-wise?

Expensive shoes!!!

Most overrated print?

Cheetah.

Fall FaSHUN----, the green Flowy wrap dress is perfect for sooo many occasions. Size small-3xplus. On SHUNMELSON.COM A photo posted by Shun Melson (@shunmelson) on Nov 15, 2016 at 7:05pm PST

Most underrated print?

Camouflage.

What’s one thing you wish all men knew about personal style?

It starts with the basics. Build a solid foundation of basics and you cant go wrong -- basic V-neck tee, distressed jeans, a nice leather jacket, a nice blazer, aviator frames.