'I Tried to Kill Him': Gun-Wielding TX Granny Scares Off Armed Intruder

'I Tried to Kill Him': Gun-Wielding TX Granny Scares Off Armed Intruder // // // As the saying goes, "You don't mess with Texas." Taken a step further, you definitely don't mess with Texas grandmothers... A 74-year-old Texas granny confronted an armed intruder with a gun of her own, causing the would-be burglar to flee, according to KSLA News 12 . Rebbie Roberson said she was just sitting down to watch the Sunday night news when the armed intruder wearing gloves and a mask broke into her home and held a gun to her face. Roberson though had her own gun, a .38-caliber pistol, on a nearby table, which she grabbed, pointed at the intruder and then began firing as the intruder fled the home. "I tried to kill him," said Roberson, who always keeps her gun close when she's home. "Anybody break in on me, I'm going to kill them. He's going to kill me or I'm going to kill him." Authorities said they have no problem with Roberson's actions. The intruder is still on the loose. Watch the above video, and share your thoughts on this gun-wielding granny with us in the comments section.

Philadelphia Cop Seen Repeatedly Punching Teen During Street Brawl

Celebs Plead With Congress in New Video: Save Us From Trump!

WATCH: Parents of Twins From Viral Dresser Video Discuss the 'Miracle'

As the saying goes, "You don't mess with Texas."

Taken a step further, you definitely don't mess with Texas grandmothers...

A 74-year-old Texas granny confronted an armed intruder with a gun of her own, causing the would-be burglar to flee, according to KSLA News 12.

Rebbie Roberson said she was just sitting down to watch the Sunday night news when the armed intruder wearing gloves and a mask broke into her home and held a gun to her face.

Roberson though had her own gun, a .38-caliber pistol, on a nearby table, which she grabbed, pointed at the intruder and then began firing as the intruder fled the home.

"I tried to kill him," said Roberson, who always keeps her gun close when she's home. "Anybody break in on me, I'm going to kill them. He's going to kill me or I'm going to kill him."

Authorities said they have no problem with Roberson's actions. The intruder is still on the loose.

Watch the above video, and share your thoughts on this gun-wielding granny with us in the comments section.

This Guy Learned the Hard Way Not to Mess With Wendy's on Twitter

A Congressman's Son Dressed Like Ken Bone, 'Dabbed' in Front of Paul Ryan

LOOK: Teens Serve as Pallbearers for Navy Vet with No Family