Pet tigers, cheetahs, lions banned in United Arab Emirates under new laws



Pet tigers, cheetahs, lions banned in United Arab Emirates under new laws

Posted

Ever thought it would be cool to own a pet tiger, cheetah or lion? Well, if you live in the United Arab Emirates, you are out of luck.

New laws passed in the Middle Eastern nation now mean only zoos, wildlife parks, circuses, breeding and research centres are entitled to keep exotic animals, Gulf News reported.

Members of the public are being urged to report cases of wild animals being kept as pets.

Taking an exotic animal out in public now attracts a jail term of up to six months and a fine of up to 500,000 UAE dirhams ($187,000), and those who use animals to terrorise people could be jailed or fined up to 700,000 dirhams ($262,000), according to Gulf News.

The new law — which extends to banning pet apes and monkeys — said most wild animals cannot be reared as pets because their behaviour is so unpredictable.

Big cats are not uncommon as pets in the UAE, with people often posting videos and photos of tigers, lions and cheetahs in the city.

In neighbouring Qatar, a tiger was spotted wandering through a traffic jam in a video shared on social media last year.

The UAE is not the only place where keeping big cats as pets is under scrutiny.

Earlier this week, Mexican authorities announced they had seized a Bengal tiger after a man took it for a walk on a leash in the border city of Tijuana.

The man had papers showing he recently bought the tiger, which was found to be in good health but lacking its claws. But officials said the animal was seized and placed temporarily at a local zoo because the owner did not take appropriate security and animal-welfare measures.

Authorities caught the man outside his home on not-quite-aptly named Lion Street.

According to the RSPCA, exotic animals such as lions and tigers cannot be kept as pets by private owners in Australia.

ABC/AP

Topics: animals, animal-welfare, human-interest, offbeat, united-arab-emirates, mexico