'I Committed First Murder At 12' SP Candidate In UP Heard Bragging In Leaked Audio Clip
'I Committed First Murder At 12' SP Candidate In UP Heard Bragging In Leaked Audio Clip
'I Committed First Murder At 12' SP Candidate In UP Heard Bragging In Leaked Audio Clip In an audio clip of an alleged phone-conversation, which has gone viral on social media platforms, Samajwadi Party candidate from the Mirapur assembly seat Shahnawaz Rana can be heard bragging that he committed his first murder at the age of 12. When contacted Rana categorically denied that the voice in the five-minute audio clip was his and said that his opponents were trying to frame him. In poll-bound UP, this triggered an immediate furore. An open war broke out in the Muzaffarnagar district unit of the SP, with Maulana Nazar, another hopeful for the Mirapur seat, publicly condemning Rana. N azar said on Wednesday that he was "sure" chief minister Akhilesh Yadav would not grant a ticket to "bad people”. Rana, believed to be a Shivpal loyalist, received the ticket in the first list released by the SP state chief. In the alleged phone conversation, a party worker called Junaid Raza can be heard telling Rana that SP’s Saharanpur divisional in-charge Rajkumar Yadav and Mulana Nazar were trying to book him under the Gangster Act. Rana then tells Raza not to worry and that nobody would do anything against him. The two then go on to abuse both Yadav and Nazar before the man, who is seemingly Rana, makes a shocking confession. Facebook/Shahnawaz Rana (Tell me something, have you seen a bigger goon than me? The biggest of goons and the biggest of criminals… Tell me, have you seen a bigger criminal than me? Son, I was playing games of violence and murder at the age of 12 or 13. What do I do now that I have to wear the garb of civility? I don’t know what these people think of themselves. I committed my first murder at the age of 12. How young is that?”

In an audio clip of an alleged phone-conversation, which has gone viral on social media platforms, Samajwadi Party candidate from the Mirapur assembly seat Shahnawaz Rana can be heard bragging that he committed his first murder at the age of 12.

When contacted Rana categorically denied that the voice in the five-minute audio clip was his and said that his opponents were trying to frame him.

Facebook/Shahnawaz Rana

In poll-bound UP, this triggered an immediate furore. An open war broke out in the Muzaffarnagar district unit of the SP, with Maulana Nazar, another hopeful for the Mirapur seat, publicly condemning Rana. N

azar said on Wednesday that he was "sure" chief minister Akhilesh Yadav would not grant a ticket to "bad people”. Rana, believed to be a Shivpal loyalist, received the ticket in the first list released by the SP state chief.

In the alleged phone conversation, a party worker called Junaid Raza can be heard telling Rana that SP’s Saharanpur divisional in-charge Rajkumar Yadav and Mulana Nazar were trying to book him under the Gangster Act.

Rana then tells Raza not to worry and that nobody would do anything against him. The two then go on to abuse both Yadav and Nazar before the man, who is seemingly Rana, makes a shocking confession.

Facebook/Shahnawaz Rana

“Yaar, ek baat toh batao, humse bada luchcha koi hai kya? Luchche mein luchcha, badmash mein badmash. Chal bata, mere se bada badmash kaunsa aur kitne dekhe tanne? Main toh, bete, 12-13 saal ki umar se maara-maari, murder-shurder se khel khel liye… Kya karein humein shareefon ka chola pehenna pad raha hai. Log pata nahi apne aap ko kya samajh lage. Pehla murder 12 saal ki umar mein kar diya tha. Kya hai 12 saal ki umar?”

(Tell me something, have you seen a bigger goon than me? The biggest of goons and the biggest of criminals… Tell me, have you seen a bigger criminal than me? Son, I was playing games of violence and murder at the age of 12 or 13. What do I do now that I have to wear the garb of civility? I don’t know what these people think of themselves. I committed my first murder at the age of 12. How young is that?”

BCCL/representational image

Reacting to the controversy, Rana said, “I have heard the clip and I can assure you that the voice in the audio clip is not mine. This has been doctored to frame me. I even spoke to Junaid, whose name is also being dragged into this along with mine. Even he said that he had made no such phone call to anybody. This is a conspiracy by Mulana Nazar, who wants the ticket from the Mirapur assembly seat and will stoop to any level to disqualify me. There isn’t even a shred of truth in this audio clip.”

Facebook/Shahnawaz Rana

Meanwhile, police said that a probe would be conducted if they received a complaint. “We have not yet received a complaint, but if we do we will take immediate action. The first step will be to ascertain whether the voice on the phone belongs to the accused. A forensic investigation will be carried out but only after the complaint has been received,” said SKS Pratap, circle officer (Jansath).

Originally Published In The Times Of India