Soulja Boy Apologizes for Chris Brown Feud in New Twitter Video: 'I've Been Acting Out'
Soulja Boy Apologizes for Chris Brown Feud in New Twitter Video: 'I've Been Acting Out'
Soulja Boy Apologizes for Chris Brown Feud in New Twitter Video: 'I've Been Acting Out'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Chris Brown and Soulja Boy made headlines this week after a feud ignited following Soulja Boy commenting on an Instagram pic of Brown’s ex Karrueche. After firing back at one another via social media over the last three days -- and Brown attacking Tran on Instagram after she posted that the feud was “ridiculous” and stating “There’s so much more out there in life then ‘twitter beefs’” -- it seems the beef may be coming to an end. At least for Soulja Boy. Soulja Boy posted an apology video Wednesday (Jan. 4) on Twitter. “Over the past couple of months I've been acting out, I’ve been wilin' out. And at the end of the day, it's not about who starts the beefs, it's about who ends them," said Soulja Boy.  "So with that being said, I found out that mom is in the hospital," he added. "The doctors told me everything should be all right, she should be good, but no amount of money, no amount of cars, no amount of fame will make me be all right when knowing my mom is sick or anything happening to Mom. I love my mother. She always been there since I been born. I got her name tatted on my face. I know she's not proud of my actions and what I've been doing recently." With all of this in mind, he continued to clear the air and said he’d like “to make music with Chris Brown” as well as other artists. "I feel like I've been on some hot boy sh--. I apologize. I'm back to the music," said Soulja Boy. Watch Soulja Boy’s apology video below: PSA ---------------- pic.twitter.com/vvKp0cVHDI  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Chris Brown and Soulja Boy made headlines this week after a feud ignited following Soulja Boy commenting on an Instagram pic of Brown’s ex Karrueche.

After firing back at one another via social media over the last three days -- and Brown attacking Tran on Instagram after she posted that the feud was “ridiculous” and stating “There’s so much more out there in life then ‘twitter beefs’” -- it seems the beef may be coming to an end. At least for Soulja Boy.

Soulja Boy posted an apology video Wednesday (Jan. 4) on Twitter. “Over the past couple of months I've been acting out, I’ve been wilin' out. And at the end of the day, it's not about who starts the beefs, it's about who ends them," said Soulja Boy.

"So with that being said, I found out that mom is in the hospital," he added. "The doctors told me everything should be all right, she should be good, but no amount of money, no amount of cars, no amount of fame will make me be all right when knowing my mom is sick or anything happening to Mom. I love my mother. She always been there since I been born. I got her name tatted on my face. I know she's not proud of my actions and what I've been doing recently."

With all of this in mind, he continued to clear the air and said he’d like “to make music with Chris Brown” as well as other artists. "I feel like I've been on some hot boy sh--. I apologize. I'm back to the music," said Soulja Boy.

Watch Soulja Boy’s apology video below: