Nigel Farage to host new nightly LBC radio show
Nigel Farage to host new nightly LBC radio show
ormer UKIP leader Nigel Farage is to host a new weeknight talk show on LBC, beginning on Monday. Announcing the news on Twitter, the MEP and Brexit campaigner promised his show would be "full of opinions", and would offer callers the chance to "challenge" him on current affairs. Speaking to the Telegraph, Farage praised the station for showcasing broadcasters with a range of political views: "That's the great thing about LBC – they've got James O'Brien, who's on the hard left, and me... I'm going to be putting out some pretty conservative opinions." LBC's managing editor James Rea said: “With Brexit and the inauguration of President Elect Trump, Nigel Farage is the man at the centre of the two biggest stories this year." arage, 52, is a friend of the US President Elect , who tweeted in November: "Many people would like to see @Nigel_Farage represent Great Britain as their Ambassador to the United States." He has made several previous appearances on the London radio station, often prompting wide news coverage for his outspoken remarks. In a 2014 LBC interview, Farage said: "If a group of Romanian men moved in next to you, would you be concerned? If you lived in London, I think you would be." ea described Farage as "a powerful communicator" who "has proved himself as a natural broadcaster. With his new nightly show, we look forward to him joining the LBC team next week.” The Nigel Farage Show will be full of opinions, callers and reaction, as well as my nightly Final Thought on the events of the day. n response to Farage's appointment, controversial columnist Katie Hopkins tweeted: "BRILLIANT!! The march of the right-thinking". Earlier this week, The Telegraph reported that Warner Bros are in talks to make a film about Farage's life , based on insurance millionaire Aarron Banks's diary The Bad Boys of Brexit It is a comedy," Banks's spokesman said.

Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage is to host a new weeknight talk show on LBC, beginning on Monday.

Announcing the news on Twitter, the MEP and Brexit campaigner promised his show would be "full of opinions", and would offer callers the chance to "challenge" him on current affairs.

Speaking to the Telegraph, Farage praised the station for showcasing broadcasters with a range of political views: "That's the great thing about LBC – they've got James O'Brien, who's on the hard left, and me... I'm going to be putting out some pretty conservative opinions."

LBC's managing editor James Rea said: “With Brexit and the inauguration of President Elect Trump, Nigel Farage is the man at the centre of the two biggest stories this year."