Tennessee cowboy lassoes runaway calf from police car in viral video
Tennessee cowboy lassoes runaway calf from police car in viral video
he New Year may only be a few days old but there is already a runaway candidate for what could be the most bizarre video we see in 2017. A clip of a cowboy lassoing a runaway cow on a motorway in Paris, Tennessee, has racked up millions of views on Facebook. t was posted by Monte Belew from the Henry County Sheriff's Office, who filmed his friend David Bevill sitting on the bonnet of his patrol car in the bizarre incident. “Hats off to my ole buddy David Bevill!!” he posted on Facebook. “We had a calf running down Hwy 79 and he came & helped us.. Bevill rode on the front of my car & roped the calf !!” uring the clip, the Sheriff excitedly watches on as his partner prepares to lasso the runaway bovine. “Hi folks, I’ve got David Bevill on the front of my control car and we got a calf found in the middle of the highway,” he explains. “We’ve been going down the middle of the highway and we’re going to try and rope him right here.” fter a moment of tense silence, Sheriff Belew screams with excitement as they finally get the animal under control. “We just roped him!” he shouts. “We got him! We just stopped him! Tie him to the front of my car!” he Sheriff spoke to the News Channel 5 Network about his viral fame, adding: “This is not a strange call to receive at all.” “Our motto is that I say ‘there’s no call we won’t take’,” he explained. “You just have to adapt and improvise to the situation at hand.” His partner said “it was probably the best loop I’ve ever thrown in my life!” The clip has racked up 2.6 million views and more than 25,000 shares. Meanwhile, the heart-stopping moment a lion tried to pounce on little boy  was one of the most-watched viral videos of 2016.

The New Year may only be a few days old but there is already a runaway candidate for what could be the most bizarre video we see in 2017.

A clip of a cowboy lassoing a runaway cow on a motorway in Paris, Tennessee, has racked up millions of views on Facebook.