I Saw 25-30 Men Closing In On Five Girls On New Year's Eve In Bengaluru, Says Motivational Speaker MC Abbas
I Saw 25-30 Men Closing In On Five Girls On New Year's Eve, Says Motivational Speaker MC Abbas
I Saw 25-30 Men Closing In On Five Girls On New Year's Eve In Bengaluru, Says Motivational Speaker MC Abbas Motivational Speaker MC Abbas has described the mayhem he witnessed on New Year's eve in Bengaluru. Abbas who was hosting an event in a Hotel in the city that evening told that he heard women's screams and saw them running with their high heels in their hand as he was coming out of the hotel. He added that while the warned the men that they will call the police, they "just kept staring at us as if it never occurred to them that they would be stopped by anyone." Abbas, with the help of the bouncers escorted the girls and guys who just wanted to go home. He also expressed shock on men just standing-by and watching the whole incident and did not bother to to intervene. Ayub Khan, one of the bouncers added that there were about 30 men, all dressed in black leather jacket. They seemed drunk and were calling the women names and trying to surround them. "It would have been a tragedy had we not reached out on time. There were no policemen and the hooligans didn't seem afraid of anybody", Khan added. Meanwhile Bengaluru Police have detained six people for questioning in connection with another incident in Kammanahalli, where a woman was seen on CCTV footage being molested and dragged by two men on a scooter. “We are questioning them based on both the CCTV footage that was sent to us, as well as footage from other cameras in the locality,” said a senior police official.

Motivational Speaker MC Abbas has described the mayhem he witnessed on New Year's eve in Bengaluru. Abbas who was hosting an event in a Hotel in the city that evening told Bangalore Mirror that he heard women's screams and saw them running with their high heels in their hand as he was coming out of the hotel.

Bangalore Mirror

"A group of 25-30 men were trying to surround five girls and three boys. The hooligans were calling them names and talking to them disrespectfully. Some of them seemed drunk. I immediately went inside the hotel gate and called the two bouncers who came to escort me till my car. Three of us came back to the spot (in front of Hotel Park) to help the women, who looked frightened."

He added that while the warned the men that they will call the police, they "just kept staring at us as if it never occurred to them that they would be stopped by anyone."

Abbas, with the help of the bouncers escorted the girls and guys who just wanted to go home.

He also expressed shock on men just standing-by and watching the whole incident and did not bother to to intervene.

Ayub Khan, one of the bouncers added that there were about 30 men, all dressed in black leather jacket. They seemed drunk and were calling the women names and trying to surround them.

"It would have been a tragedy had we not reached out on time. There were no policemen and the hooligans didn't seem afraid of anybody", Khan added.

Meanwhile Bengaluru Police have detained six people for questioning in connection with another incident in Kammanahalli, where a woman was seen on CCTV footage being molested and dragged by two men on a scooter.

CCTV

“We are questioning them based on both the CCTV footage that was sent to us, as well as footage from other cameras in the locality,” said a senior police official.