Sir Tim Barrow profile: 'He will report back reliably on EU thinking'

, Diplomatic editor, and    Sir Tim Barrow, thrown in the space of just over 24 hours into potentially the most high-profile role in British postwar diplomacy , is described as a people person with an ability to tell London what other EU states are thinking. Douglas Alexander, the former Labour Europe minister who worked with Barrow in the Europe directorate in 2005 during the period of negotiations over the Lisbon treaty, said: “He is not just a highly skilled professional diplomat, but a real people person with the ability to listen, understand and report back reliably on what other European nations are saying. “In the end, that is what ministers in London will want. He has the ability to get alongside politicians, without playing political games.” Alexander said he saw no signs of any Europhile tendencies in Barrow, describing him as just a very practical diplomat. He added it was clear from very early on that Barrow was a civil servant headed for the top diplomatic posts. Barrow had returned to London in the middle of last year during the final period of Philip Hammond’s foreign secretaryship to act as political director following a long period focused on the threat posed by Russia, first as ambassador to Ukraine and then between 2011 and 2015 as ambassador to Moscow during the reassertion of Russian power. That knowledge of a wider Europe and the security threat posed by Vladimir Putin may stand him in good stead in building relations with the Visegrad states, the four central European countries seen as allies of Britain in the Brexit negotiations. A taste for wearing waistcoats with rolled-up shirtsleeves betrays a sense of humour that some say brought him favour with Boris Johnson, the current foreign secretary. Johnson was certainly full of praise as he packed Barrow off to Brussels, saying: “Tim Barrow has been invaluable since I joined the Foreign Office in July and I want to personally thank him for his relentless energy, wise counsel and steadfast commitment. “He is just the man to get the best deal for the UK and will lead UKRep [the British delegation to the EU] with the same skill and leadership he has shown throughout his career.” But those who worked with him in Moscow say he kept a relatively low profile even during times of crisis. It was Barrow’s job as ambassador to represent David Cameron’s new, more pragmatic line on Russia, with a focus on trade rather than human rights. The former prime minister signalled that differences over the murder in the UK of Alexander Litvinenko remained, but could be “negotiated around”. Barrow hosted Cameron during a 2011 visit to Moscow, the first visit by a British prime minister since 2005. But the government’s attempted “reset” with Moscow ended in failure in 2014, towards the end of Barrow’s stint, when Putin annexed Crimea and covertly invaded eastern Ukraine. As relations between Russia and the west deteriorated, the US embassy, through its ambassador Michael McFaul, and lower-level US diplomats, maintained a lively social media presence in English and Russian and frequently engaged with local and foreign media in Moscow. But Barrow preferred a quieter approach, apparently considering loud criticism counterproductive. One Russian political interlocutor described him as “polite and decent”, and he also made a point of keeping links with Russian business circles despite souring relations, in accordance with Cameron’s focus on British embassies promoting trade. Topics  EU referendum and Brexit   European Union   Europe   Foreign policy

Sir Tim Barrow, thrown in the space of just over 24 hours into potentially the most high-profile role in British postwar diplomacy, is described as a people person with an ability to tell London what other EU states are thinking.

Douglas Alexander, the former Labour Europe minister who worked with Barrow in the Europe directorate in 2005 during the period of negotiations over the Lisbon treaty, said: “He is not just a highly skilled professional diplomat, but a real people person with the ability to listen, understand and report back reliably on what other European nations are saying.

“In the end, that is what ministers in London will want. He has the ability to get alongside politicians, without playing political games.”

Sir Tim Barrow appointed as Britain's EU ambassador Read more

Alexander said he saw no signs of any Europhile tendencies in Barrow, describing him as just a very practical diplomat. He added it was clear from very early on that Barrow was a civil servant headed for the top diplomatic posts.

Barrow had returned to London in the middle of last year during the final period of Philip Hammond’s foreign secretaryship to act as political director following a long period focused on the threat posed by Russia, first as ambassador to Ukraine and then between 2011 and 2015 as ambassador to Moscow during the reassertion of Russian power.

That knowledge of a wider Europe and the security threat posed by Vladimir Putin may stand him in good stead in building relations with the Visegrad states, the four central European countries seen as allies of Britain in the Brexit negotiations.

A taste for wearing waistcoats with rolled-up shirtsleeves betrays a sense of humour that some say brought him favour with Boris Johnson, the current foreign secretary.

Johnson was certainly full of praise as he packed Barrow off to Brussels, saying: “Tim Barrow has been invaluable since I joined the Foreign Office in July and I want to personally thank him for his relentless energy, wise counsel and steadfast commitment.

“He is just the man to get the best deal for the UK and will lead UKRep [the British delegation to the EU] with the same skill and leadership he has shown throughout his career.”

But those who worked with him in Moscow say he kept a relatively low profile even during times of crisis.



It was Barrow’s job as ambassador to represent David Cameron’s new, more pragmatic line on Russia, with a focus on trade rather than human rights.

The former prime minister signalled that differences over the murder in the UK of Alexander Litvinenko remained, but could be “negotiated around”. Barrow hosted Cameron during a 2011 visit to Moscow, the first visit by a British prime minister since 2005.

But the government’s attempted “reset” with Moscow ended in failure in 2014, towards the end of Barrow’s stint, when Putin annexed Crimea and covertly invaded eastern Ukraine.

As relations between Russia and the west deteriorated, the US embassy, through its ambassador Michael McFaul, and lower-level US diplomats, maintained a lively social media presence in English and Russian and frequently engaged with local and foreign media in Moscow. But Barrow preferred a quieter approach, apparently considering loud criticism counterproductive.

One Russian political interlocutor described him as “polite and decent”, and he also made a point of keeping links with Russian business circles despite souring relations, in accordance with Cameron’s focus on British embassies promoting trade.