Donald Trump tweets on Obamacare, promising "far better" alternative
Donald Trump tweets on Obamacare, promising "far better" alternative
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump speaks at a USA Thank You Tour event at Crown Coliseum in Fayetteville, North Carolina, U.S., December 6, 2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  President-elect Donald Trump waded into the discussion over the Affordable Care Act Thursday morning, sending three tweets about the law (commonly known as Obamacare ) and GOP plans for repeal on Thursday morning. In the tweets, Mr. Trump referred to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as a “clown.” He said Obamacare was “a lie from the beginning,” saying Republicans will come up with something “FAR BETTER”: The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. ...do the typical political thing and BLAME. The fact is ObamaCare was a lie from the beginning."Keep you doctor, keep your plan!" It is.... ...time for Republicans & Democrats to get together and come up with a healthcare plan that really works - much less expensive & FAR BETTER! Mr. Trump’s tweets come as congressional Republicans look to quickly repeal Obamacare. In addition to congressional action, Vice President-elect Mike Pence told lawmakers Wednesday that Mr. Trump plans to issue a series of executive orders relating to Obamacare shortly after taking office. As of now, congressional Republicans have not agreed on an alternative to Obamacare, nor has Mr. Trump proposed or endorsed an alternative proposal of his own. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Trump’s plans on health care were also not specific. Asked in 2015 how he would handle Obamacare if elected, Mr. Trump said he would repeal the law and replace it “with something terrific.” And after Election Day, he told CBS’ “60 Minutes” that he was open to amending the law and keeping some of its provisions in place.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Emily Schultheis is a reporter/editor for CBS News Digital.

President-elect Donald Trump waded into the discussion over the Affordable Care Act Thursday morning, sending three tweets about the law (commonly known as Obamacare) and GOP plans for repeal on Thursday morning.

In the tweets, Mr. Trump referred to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as a “clown.” He said Obamacare was “a lie from the beginning,” saying Republicans will come up with something “FAR BETTER”:

The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

...do the typical political thing and BLAME. The fact is ObamaCare was a lie from the beginning."Keep you doctor, keep your plan!" It is.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

...time for Republicans & Democrats to get together and come up with a healthcare plan that really works - much less expensive & FAR BETTER! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

Mr. Trump’s tweets come as congressional Republicans look to quickly repeal Obamacare. In addition to congressional action, Vice President-elect Mike Pence told lawmakers Wednesday that Mr. Trump plans to issue a series of executive orders relating to Obamacare shortly after taking office.

As of now, congressional Republicans have not agreed on an alternative to Obamacare, nor has Mr. Trump proposed or endorsed an alternative proposal of his own.

Throughout the campaign, Mr. Trump’s plans on health care were also not specific. Asked in 2015 how he would handle Obamacare if elected, Mr. Trump said he would repeal the law and replace it “with something terrific.” And after Election Day, he told CBS’

“60 Minutes” that he was open to amending the law and keeping some of its provisions in place.