French farmer Cedric Herrou on trial for migrant help
French farmer on trial for helping migrants
French farmer on trial for helping migrants: 'My job is feeding people' Updated 1316 GMT (2116 HKT) January 5, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Cedric Herrou could face up to five years in prison and a fine if convicted Herrou is accused of helping illegal migrants cross the border from Italy and sheltering them A French farmer accused of helping illegal migrants cross the border from Italy and giving them shelter is on trial in France, in a case that has highlighted divisions over how migrants are treated in Europe. Defense lawyer: 'There is no offense' Herrou: 'Not my job to ask for people's papers' CNN's Pierre-Eliott Buet contributed to this report.

Story highlights Cedric Herrou could face up to five years in prison and a fine if convicted

Herrou is accused of helping illegal migrants cross the border from Italy and sheltering them

(CNN) A French farmer accused of helping illegal migrants cross the border from Italy and giving them shelter is on trial in France, in a case that has highlighted divisions over how migrants are treated in Europe.

Cedric Herrou, an olive and poultry farmer from a village on the border with Italy, risks a maximum five-year prison sentence and a 30,000-euro ($31,500) fine if convicted.

But Herrou was unrepentant as his case was heard Wednesday at a court in Nice, CNN affiliate BFMTV reported.

A crowd of more than 300 people gathered to cheer him on as the farmer and activist left the courthouse, BFMTV said. Some held a banner reading: "Yes to solidarity and welcome migrants and refugees."

Activist farmer Cedric Herrou speaks outside the Nice courthouse on Wednesday.

Speaking to reporters, Herrou said: "It's not up to me to make a distinction between black and white, people with or without papers. It's not my job. Farming is what I do, my job is feeding people and that's what I do."

Read More