Stephen Colbert & San Antonio Spurs Mascot Spoof Mariah Carey's Glitchy NYE Performance
Stephen Colbert & San Antonio Spurs Mascot Spoof Mariah Carey's Glitchy NYE Performance
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' for Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Stephen Colbert & San Antonio Spurs Mascot Spoof Mariah Carey's Glitchy NYE Performance  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Mariah Carey 's glitch-filled Dick Clark's Rockin' New Year's Eve lip synch mishap is the meme that keeps on giving. As the singer and the show's producers go back-and-forth over who was to blame for the botched performance, late night talker Stephen Colbert returned to the air Tuesday night (Jan. 3) with a nod to the fiasco, while the mascot for the NBA's San Antonio Spurs attempted to recreate the incident at Wednesday night's game against the Toronto Raptors. "2016 was rough, but I'm staying positive about 2017," Colbert said in his return from holiday break. "And the year is starting off great for everyone but Mariah Carey... No one knows exactly what happened. I blame Russian Hackers." It's confusing, but Colbert made it clear that he's Team Mariah and that it was definitely not her fault. But Colbert is here to tell jokes, so despite repping Team Mimi, the comedian followed up with a bit where his TelePrompter went blank and some male dancers ran out to surround him as a distraction.  A night later, the Spurs mascot, dressed in a white unitard and fuzzy vest, sang Carey's "Emotion," until there appeared to be a problem with the mic and he looked around confused before storming off the court. ------ pic.twitter.com/tYsfmzSkwJ     FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mariah Carey's glitch-filled Dick Clark's Rockin' New Year's Eve lip synch mishap is the meme that keeps on giving. As the singer and the show's producers go back-and-forth over who was to blame for the botched performance, late night talker Stephen Colbert returned to the air Tuesday night (Jan. 3) with a nod to the fiasco, while the mascot for the NBA's San Antonio Spurs attempted to recreate the incident at Wednesday night's game against the Toronto Raptors.

"2016 was rough, but I'm staying positive about 2017," Colbert said in his return from holiday break. "And the year is starting off great for everyone but Mariah Carey... No one knows exactly what happened. I blame Russian Hackers." It's confusing, but Colbert made it clear that he's Team Mariah and that it was definitely not her fault.

But Colbert is here to tell jokes, so despite repping Team Mimi, the comedian followed up with a bit where his TelePrompter went blank and some male dancers ran out to surround him as a distraction.

A night later, the Spurs mascot, dressed in a white unitard and fuzzy vest, sang Carey's "Emotion," until there appeared to be a problem with the mic and he looked around confused before storming off the court.