Why we buy milk, bread and toilet paper when it snows
Why we buy milk, bread and toilet paper when it snows
Why we buy milk, bread and toilet paper when it snows Updated 1636 GMT (0036 HKT) January 5, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Those items are always the first to go when snow threatens The trend apparently dates to the mid-20th century Is there something about snowstorms that makes us want to eat French toast and sit on the toilet? Just wait until Friday. CURRENT FRENCH TOAST ALERT LEVEL: ELEVATED -- https://t.co/qG06sgUBp6  #fb Bread and Milk Forecast -- the only snow forecast you need. #winterstorm  #BreadandMilk  @AndrewNBC12  pic.twitter.com/q1a6Yp5AvC As @PaulHeggenWSMV says, we are NOT at the "buy milk and bread" level on the Panic-o-meter! pic.twitter.com/1MMB2V8Clw @MarkLazerus nashville is busy buying milk and bread in anticipation of the snowcalypse. We can't drive in #snow . REMEMBER: buy copious amounts of bread, eggs and milk in advance of massive snow fall. Because your best defense is French Toast. Ahh man, snow flurries already coming down. I forgot the milk for my bread sandwiches! #TakingLunchEarly  #snOMG Everyone's buying bread and milk to survive the snow. I'm buying ice cream and donuts.

Story highlights Those items are always the first to go when snow threatens

The trend apparently dates to the mid-20th century

A version of this story ran in January 2015.

(CNN) Is there something about snowstorms that makes us want to eat French toast and sit on the toilet?

With every predicted blizzard, there's a mad dash to load up on milk, bread, eggs and toilet paper. But why those particular items?

Sure, there are some variations, including booze, snack foods and even ice cream. Yet these items are the first to disappear from store shelves when the dreaded s-word is mentioned.

According to AccuWeather.com, we might be able to thank a particular region for at least some of it.

"It appears that New Englanders can take credit for the purchasing of milk and bread prior to the storm," the site reported. "It was the monumental blizzard in 1978 that trapped many in homes for weeks that gets at least some credit for the current tradition."