New Billionaire: How Papa John's CEO John Schnatter Turned Pizza Into Ten-Figure Fortune
New Billionaire: How Papa John's CEO John Schnatter Turned Pizza Into Ten-Figure Fortune
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Daniela Sirtori-Cortina       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. John Schnatter, founder and CEO of Papa John's. (Photo by Rob Kim/Getty Images) A disgruntled investor once called Papa John's CEO John Schnatter to suggest that he buy cheaper ingredients to cut costs and shore up the company's shares, which then hovered around $8. Schnatter, whose company flaunts the motto "Better Ingredients. Better Pizza," wasn't having it. “I said... 'Take your Papa John’s stock, put it under your pillow, and over the next two to three years we’ll do you a good job,'" he recalled in a 2016 video interview with Purdue University . The CEO, often seen in a red shirt emblazoned with he company's logo, delivered on his promise when the stock more than doubled to $19 in early 2012, three years after the investor’s call. Shares have more than quadrupled since, enjoying a 58% increase in the last 12 months alone that boosted Schnatter’s net worth to about $1 billion. The pizza mogul declined to be interviewed for this article, but said in emailed remarks: "As long as our quality and company continue to get better, by nature, we will get bigger." In the last three decades, Schnatter has turned the company that he started out of a broom closet in 1984 into a pizza giant with $1.64 billion sales in 2015 from more than 4,900 locations in 44 countries and territories. “He’s very passionate about (Papa John's) and takes a lot of pride in the performance of the company," said Peter Saleh, a managing director at financial services firm BTIG. "I think he’s a visionary that keeps this engine humming along." Forbes was able to put together a timeline of Schnatter's career using four video interviews and feedback from Papa John’s press office. The great-grandson of a German immigrant who arrived in the U.S. in 1867, Schnatter grew up among entrepreneurs. His grandfather owned three successful businesses, while his father started 20 outfits that all faltered . At age 8 Schnatter founded a grass-cutting company with his younger brother, and at age 12 a gutter-painting startup. Three years later, Schnatter landed a job as a dishwasher at Rocky’s Sub Pub, a restaurant in his hometown of Jeffersonville, Ind. where he was eventually allowed to make pizzas. “I just fell in love with it,” he said in an interview with CNBC. While at Rocky’s, Schnatter bought a 1972 Camaro Z28 for $1,600. He graduated from Indiana’s Ball State University in 1983 with a business degree but struggled to find work. So in early September of that year, Schnatter turned to managing his father’s pub, Mick’s Lounge, which he has described as the " dirtiest, nastiest, stinkiest ... beer joint in the world. " The bar had racked up $64,000 in debt, so Schnatter sold his Camaro for $2,800 a month after joining the company to pay the bar’s employees and buy beer for a week. He settled the pub's debts in about 4 months. “I didn’t like the bar business. I didn’t like all the fights, all the cussing, the drinking … but I loved running the business,” Schnatter said in the Purdue interview. Combining his two passions, Schnatter knocked down the broom closet at Mick’s Lounge one day in 1984 and started selling pizzas out of the back of the bar. A year later he opened the first Papa John’s restaurant in Jeffersonville, personally making every pizza during the company’s first year in business . “He just saw an opportunity for someone to offer better pizza, and that consumers would taste the difference,” said Jefferies analyst Alexander Slagle. Papa John’s sold its first franchise in 1986 and opened its 100th restaurant five years later. Schnatter took the firm public in June of 1993, listing it as "PZZA" on NASDAQ. “In 1991 I didn’t have $2,000 to go on vacation. In 1994 the company was worth $200 million,” Schnatter said in an interview with CNBC. “We literally went from nothing to literally having a lot of blessings in a short period of time." By 2009, Schnatter had enough money to pay $250,000 for the 1972 Camaro he had sold for a couple grand in 1983. Wall Street has continued to salivate over Papa John's, which has achieved a market cap of about $3.2 billion under Schnatter's leadership. Drivers of the growth include the firm's sustained commitment to quality ingredients and its early investment in technology, Slagle said. In 2001, Papa John's became the first pizza chain to offer national online ordering. By the first quarter of 2016, 55% of the chain's orders came in through digital platforms. "They’ve worked hard to continue to improve the quality of their product and positioning," Slagle said, "They’ve worked hard investing in technology to be the leader and have the most convenient online ordering app and experience for the consumer and it’s paying off." Despite its massive success -- the chain hasn’t posted a negative same-stores sales number, even during the recession, Saleh said -- Papa John's has only captured about a tenth of the pizza market in the U.S, according to BTIG estimates. Its two largest competitors, Pizza Hut and Domino's, together have seized about 30% to 40% of the pie, with the remaining share in the hands of local and regional pizza joints. But, in Saleh's view, Papa John's could gobble up market share in the future. “I think their same-store sales are going to continue to be robust and if that’s the case I think you’re going to see franchisees continue to invest to build new units," Saleh said. In his 32 years at Papa John’s helm, Schnatter has largely skirted scandals. But he landed in hot water in 2012 for saying the Affordable Care Act would force the company to raise prices by 11 to 14 cents per pizza , a cost he said the company would pass on to consumers. He also received backlash for a comment, which he said was misinterpreted , that seemed to suggest Papa John's would cut employee hours to avoid providing them with health insurance. Shares slumped about 4.2% as the controversy raged on. Almost five years later, stockholders seem to have forgotten about Schnatter's comments. "The bigger concern among investors would be if and when John retires," said Saleh. "People would be concerned (that losing) his vision and his knowledge base would negatively impact the company." At least for now, shareholders and pizza fans can breathe easy, as the 55-year-old has no plans to retire, a spokesperson for Papa John’s confirmed. “I have a goal of being the No.1 pizza company in the world,” Schnatter said a few years ago . “...I’ve got all the patience and all the work ethic and all the time in the world to get that done.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

A disgruntled investor once called Papa John's CEO John Schnatter to suggest that he buy cheaper ingredients to cut costs and shore up the company's shares, which then hovered around $8.

Schnatter, whose company flaunts the motto "Better Ingredients. Better Pizza," wasn't having it. “I said... 'Take your Papa John’s stock, put it under your pillow, and over the next two to three years we’ll do you a good job,'" he recalled in a 2016 video interview with Purdue University.

The CEO, often seen in a red shirt emblazoned with he company's logo, delivered on his promise when the stock more than doubled to $19 in early 2012, three years after the investor’s call. Shares have more than quadrupled since, enjoying a 58% increase in the last 12 months alone that boosted Schnatter’s net worth to about $1 billion. The pizza mogul declined to be interviewed for this article, but said in emailed remarks: "As long as our quality and company continue to get better, by nature, we will get bigger."

In the last three decades, Schnatter has turned the company that he started out of a broom closet in 1984 into a pizza giant with $1.64 billion sales in 2015 from more than 4,900 locations in 44 countries and territories.

“He’s very passionate about (Papa John's) and takes a lot of pride in the performance of the company," said Peter Saleh, a managing director at financial services firm BTIG. "I think he’s a visionary that keeps this engine humming along."

Becoming Papa John's

Forbes was able to put together a timeline of Schnatter's career using four video interviews and feedback from Papa John’s press office.

The great-grandson of a German immigrant who arrived in the U.S. in 1867, Schnatter grew up among entrepreneurs. His grandfather owned three successful businesses, while his father started 20 outfits that all faltered. At age 8 Schnatter founded a grass-cutting company with his younger brother, and at age 12 a gutter-painting startup.

Three years later, Schnatter landed a job as a dishwasher at Rocky’s Sub Pub, a restaurant in his hometown of Jeffersonville, Ind. where he was eventually allowed to make pizzas. “I just fell in love with it,” he said in an interview with CNBC. While at Rocky’s, Schnatter bought a 1972 Camaro Z28 for $1,600.

He graduated from Indiana’s Ball State University in 1983 with a business degree but struggled to find work. So in early September of that year, Schnatter turned to managing his father’s pub, Mick’s Lounge, which he has described as the "dirtiest, nastiest, stinkiest ... beer joint in the world."

The bar had racked up $64,000 in debt, so Schnatter sold his Camaro for $2,800 a month after joining the company to pay the bar’s employees and buy beer for a week. He settled the pub's debts in about 4 months.

“I didn’t like the bar business. I didn’t like all the fights, all the cussing, the drinking … but I loved running the business,” Schnatter said in the Purdue interview.

Combining his two passions, Schnatter knocked down the broom closet at Mick’s Lounge one day in 1984 and started selling pizzas out of the back of the bar. A year later he opened the first Papa John’s restaurant in Jeffersonville, personally making every pizza during the company’s first year in business.

“He just saw an opportunity for someone to offer better pizza, and that consumers would taste the difference,” said Jefferies analyst Alexander Slagle.

Papa John’s sold its first franchise in 1986 and opened its 100th restaurant five years later. Schnatter took the firm public in June of 1993, listing it as "PZZA" on NASDAQ.

“In 1991 I didn’t have $2,000 to go on vacation. In 1994 the company was worth $200 million,” Schnatter said in an interview with CNBC. “We literally went from nothing to literally having a lot of blessings in a short period of time." By 2009, Schnatter had enough money to pay $250,000 for the 1972 Camaro he had sold for a couple grand in 1983.

Making Dough

Wall Street has continued to salivate over Papa John's, which has achieved a market cap of about $3.2 billion under Schnatter's leadership. Drivers of the growth include the firm's sustained commitment to quality ingredients and its early investment in technology, Slagle said. In 2001, Papa John's became the first pizza chain to offer national online ordering. By the first quarter of 2016, 55% of the chain's orders came in through digital platforms.

"They’ve worked hard to continue to improve the quality of their product and positioning," Slagle said, "They’ve worked hard investing in technology to be the leader and have the most convenient online ordering app and experience for the consumer and it’s paying off."

Despite its massive success -- the chain hasn’t posted a negative same-stores sales number, even during the recession, Saleh said -- Papa John's has only captured about a tenth of the pizza market in the U.S, according to BTIG estimates. Its two largest competitors, Pizza Hut and Domino's, together have seized about 30% to 40% of the pie, with the remaining share in the hands of local and regional pizza joints. But, in Saleh's view, Papa John's could gobble up market share in the future.

“I think their same-store sales are going to continue to be robust and if that’s the case I think you’re going to see franchisees continue to invest to build new units," Saleh said.

In his 32 years at Papa John’s helm, Schnatter has largely skirted scandals. But he landed in hot water in 2012 for saying the Affordable Care Act would force the company to raise prices by 11 to 14 cents per pizza, a cost he said the company would pass on to consumers. He also received backlash for a comment, which he said was misinterpreted, that seemed to suggest Papa John's would cut employee hours to avoid providing them with health insurance. Shares slumped about 4.2% as the controversy raged on.

Almost five years later, stockholders seem to have forgotten about Schnatter's comments. "The bigger concern among investors would be if and when John retires," said Saleh. "People would be concerned (that losing) his vision and his knowledge base would negatively impact the company."

At least for now, shareholders and pizza fans can breathe easy, as the 55-year-old has no plans to retire, a spokesperson for Papa John’s confirmed.

“I have a goal of being the No.1 pizza company in the world,” Schnatter said a few years ago. “...I’ve got all the patience and all the work ethic and all the time in the world to get that done.”

Contact: dsirtori@forbes.com / Follow: @dlsirtori