This portable smart scooter might be better than your car
This portable smart scooter might be better than your car
Internet-connected scooter is called Your smartphone fits easily onto the handlebar, and by using its companion app you can use navigation, control your music and dim or brighten a headlight. . For more Trending Tech: Netflix has just helped improve your commute Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game Your next food delivery order could come from a robot You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish Amazon offers special deals through Alexa WhatsApp video calling is finally here You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain

This isn’t your average scooter.

It’s the brainchild of the co-founder of Mophie and was a big hit at CES Unveiled. The Internet-connected scooter is called Immotor Go and has carlike features, like turn-by-turn directions and cruise control.

It’s not only superportable and easy to use but energy-efficient. It uses what the company calls a Super Battery that runs on a revolutionary new green power. You can get a 20-mile ride out of one charge. The battery can also charge other things like your laptop.

Your smartphone fits easily onto the handlebar, and by using its companion app you can use navigation, control your music and dim or brighten a headlight.



The high-tech scooter doesn’t come cheap, though — it will run you $1,500. But you have till June to save up.

For more Trending Tech:

Netflix has just helped improve your commute

Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game

Your next food delivery order could come from a robot

You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do

This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage

You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM

Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting

You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish

Amazon offers special deals through Alexa

WhatsApp video calling is finally here

You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone

Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar

This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night

New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go

Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain