How beans on toast can tackle the pain of gout
How a humble serving of beans on toast can tackle the pain of gout


Gout sufferers should eat baked beans on toast to tackle the painful condition, new research revealed today.

Experts said a diet high in fibre, such as beans, wholemeal bread, rice and jacket potatoes, can also cut arthritis pain.

Gout is the most common cause of inflammatory joint disease in men over 40 years old and one in 10 older people in the UK suffer gout.

Simple, but effective: Experts said a diet high in fibre, such as beans, wholemeal bread, rice and jacket potatoes, can also cut arthritis pain

It is an inflammatory arthritis triggered by a crystallised uric acid within the joints that causes severe pain and swelling.

The condition is often mistakenly believed to be caused by drinking too much red wine, with older, over-weight men most at risk.

While treatments are available, gout patients are often hit by recurring gout attacks, prompting patients and doctors to investigate other preventive options.

Now a team has found that high fibre diets reduce inflammation caused by gout, severely reducing pain.

Researchers from the University of Minas Gerais in Brazil found that diets high in fibre trigger microorganisms in the gut to produce fatty acids, which cut inflammation linked to gout and arthritis.

They said the findings, published in the Journal of Leukocyte Biology, have important implications for the treatment of gout and possibly for the treatment of arthritis.

Sore: Gout is the most common cause of inflammatory joint disease in men over 40 years old and one in 10 UK pensioners suffer from it

Gender divide: Older men who are overweight are particularly prone to developing gout

Study co-author Dr Mauro Teixeira said:'By understanding the way foods interact with living organisms, we may be able to create diets that help people with the disease, as well as their health overall.'

To make their discovery, scientists used a high-fibre diet and treatment with fatty acids to prevent inflammation associated with the injection of crystals in the knees of mice.

Laboratory experiments showed that this not only reduced inflammation but also boosted the production of anti-inflammation compounds in the knee joint, preventing further knee damage and dysfunction.

Dr John Wherry, deputy editor of the Journal of Leukocyte Biology, said: 'We are seeing an explosion in our understanding of how microbial communities in our intestines and elsewhere influence multiple aspects of immune and metabolic health.

'This work is a good example of how tuning of inflammatory circuits by linking diet to microbial products can have a profound effect on an inflammatory disease in the joints.