Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Kris Kross Amsterdam, Rain Man & a Remixed Summer/Streisand Classic
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Kris Kross Amsterdam, Rain Man & a Remixed Summer/Streisand Classic
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Kris Kross Amsterdam, Rain Man & a Remixed Summer/Streisand Classic  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts. DJ/producer trio Kris Kross Amsterdam (Dutch brothers Jordy and Sander Huisman, along with Yuki Kempees) teams with singer Conor Maynard and rapper Ty Dolla $ign on "Are You Sure?," which arrives at No. 37 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs (with 1,000 downloads sold in the week ending Dec. 29, according to Nielsen Music). The track, partly a reinterpretation of LL Cool J 's 1996 No. 3 Billboard Hot 100 hit "Loungin'," is the second chart entry for Kris Kross Amsterdam (whose name references early '90s rap duo Kris Kross ); in July, the act's collaboration with Cheat Codes , "Sex" (which samples Salt-N-Pepa 's 1991 smash "Let's Talk About Sex"), hit No. 10. "Sure" marks the first visit to the chart for Maynard and the fourth for Ty Dolla $ign. Rain Man (real name: Kris Trindl), teaming with vocalist Krysta Youngs, scores his second solo Dance/Mix Show Airplay hit, debuting at No. 40 with "Habit." As a member of Krewella , the DJ/producer collected three top 10s, including "Alive," which enjoyed a three-week reign at No. 1 in 2013. Rain Man first hit the chart on his own in July, reaching No. 3 with "Bring Back the Summer," featuring Oly. "Habit," the first charted title for Youngs, bows in large part from such core dance outlets as SiriusXM's BPM, iHeartRadio's Evolution affiliate WFLZ-HD Tampa, Florida, and Music Choice's Dance/EDM channel. Yes, the 37-year-old disco classic, now listed as by Donna Summer and Barbra Streisand and titled "Enough Is Enough 2017," is back, rising 26-20 on Dance Club Songs . The original "No More Tears (Enough Is Enough)," billed as by Barbra Streisand/Donna Summer, topped the chart for four weeks, and the Hot 100 for two weeks, in 1979. A plethora of remixes, including from Offer Nissim, C-Rod and Dirty Disco, help the iconic anthem from Babs and late legend Summer return.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts.

Kris Kross Amsterdam & Conor Maynard feat. Ty Dolla $ign, "Are You Sure?"

DJ/producer trio Kris Kross Amsterdam (Dutch brothers Jordy and Sander Huisman, along with Yuki Kempees) teams with singer Conor Maynard and rapper Ty Dolla $ign on "Are You Sure?," which arrives at No. 37 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs (with 1,000 downloads sold in the week ending Dec. 29, according to Nielsen Music). The track, partly a reinterpretation of LL Cool J's 1996 No. 3 Billboard Hot 100 hit "Loungin'," is the second chart entry for Kris Kross Amsterdam (whose name references early '90s rap duo Kris Kross); in July, the act's collaboration with Cheat Codes, "Sex" (which samples Salt-N-Pepa's 1991 smash "Let's Talk About Sex"), hit No. 10. "Sure" marks the first visit to the chart for Maynard and the fourth for Ty Dolla $ign.

Rain Man & Krysta Youngs, "Habit"

Rain Man (real name: Kris Trindl), teaming with vocalist Krysta Youngs, scores his second solo Dance/Mix Show Airplay hit, debuting at No. 40 with "Habit." As a member of Krewella, the DJ/producer collected three top 10s, including "Alive," which enjoyed a three-week reign at No. 1 in 2013. Rain Man first hit the chart on his own in July, reaching No. 3 with "Bring Back the Summer," featuring Oly. "Habit," the first Billboard charted title for Youngs, bows in large part from such core dance outlets as SiriusXM's BPM, iHeartRadio's Evolution affiliate WFLZ-HD Tampa, Florida, and Music Choice's Dance/EDM channel.

Donna Summer & Barbra Streisand, "Enough Is Enough 2017"

Yes, the 37-year-old disco classic, now listed as by Donna Summer and Barbra Streisand and titled "Enough Is Enough 2017," is back, rising 26-20 on Dance Club Songs. The original "No More Tears (Enough Is Enough)," billed as by Barbra Streisand/Donna Summer, topped the chart for four weeks, and the Hot 100 for two weeks, in 1979. A plethora of remixes, including from Offer Nissim, C-Rod and Dirty Disco, help the iconic anthem from Babs and late legend Summer return.