Can a Law Stop Distracted Driving? California Hopes to Find Out
Can a Law Stop Distracted Driving? California Hopes to Find Out
Thousands of people die in distracted-driving accidents every year, including more than 3,400 in 2015, according to federal data released last week. California is hoping to do something about it. A law went into effect in the state last week with an aim toward cutting down on the number of drivers using smartphones. As traffic deaths rise at the fastest rate in the last half-century , many states have taken steps to reduce distracted driving . But while 46 states and the District of Columbia ban texting by drivers, only 14 prohibit the use of any mobile device while driving. With its new law, signed by Gov. Jerry Brown in September and effective Jan. 1, California has gone further than most states in prohibiting the use of cellphones: It is barring drivers from even holding mobile devices. The law builds on earlier legislation that prevented drivers from talking and texting but did not prohibit them from streaming video, for instance, or using apps like Facebook and Twitter. Advertisement Late last month, a Texas couple filed a lawsuit against Apple over a 2014 accident in which a driver using the video-calling app FaceTime crashed into their car, killing their 5-year-old daughter. Jennifer Ryan, the director of state relations for the travel organization AAA, said the California measure matched a larger trend in which states were bringing legislation up to date with contemporary phones. Many of the existing laws were passed before smartphones offered the number of interactive features that they do today, she said. “We certainly anticipate there to be many bills introduced this year,” she added. Ms. Ryan said that California’s provisions were particularly broad and that although it was “definitely a bellwether state,” states tended to evaluate policy solutions to distracted driving independently. AAA expects to see legislation introduced to address distracted driving in about 10 states, including Iowa, Massachusetts, Missouri, Virginia and Wisconsin. According to new statistics from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 272 teenagers were killed in 2015 in what the agency described as distraction-affected crashes. The data also showed that 3,263 of the 3,477 people killed in such crashes that year had been distracted while driving. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy California’s law goes beyond even what the federal agency recommends to prevent distracted driving, said Bryan Thomas, a spokesman for the agency. “We certainly have encouraged states to adopt ‘no texting and driving’ laws. That’s been a big focus,” Mr. Thomas said. “The most recent action has been on what can be done on manufacturers of both cars and devices on how to minimize distraction.” But even given California’s comparatively extensive law, some experts are unconvinced that legislation alone can significantly reduce the threat of distracted driving. Steve Finnegan, the government affairs manager of the Automobile Club of Southern California, said that although the new legislation was “a step in the right direction,” it did not address “the complete issue of distracted driving.” Advertisement “One of the bigger issues is cognitive distraction,” Mr. Finnegan said. “It’s not what your hands are doing; it’s what your brain is doing.” David G. Kidd, a senior researcher at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, an independent research organization that focuses on reducing injuries and fatalities from crashes, agreed and said that research on public policy that banned smartphone use had returned mixed results. “There is evidence that if you do pass a law and have strong enforcement, it can change behavior,” he said. “But we don’t see a reduction in crashes that is consistent with that change in behavior.” The institute is more focused on encouraging automakers to adapt crash avoidance technologies such as forward-collision warnings and automatic emergency braking — technological measures that are intended to help prevent front-to-rear crashes. Those systems “are not going to reduce driver distraction, but they will help cope with some of the consequences that come with drivers not paying attention,” Mr. Kidd said. Ms. Ryan, of AAA, said drivers’ safety ultimately rested in their hands and those of their fellow motorists. “We really want to emphasize to motorists that driving is a very demanding task,” she said. “People really need to pay attention to the task at hand and not drive distracted.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. TIMES TOPIC      DRIVEN TO DISTRACTION    DRIVEN TO DISTRACTION    DRIVEN TO DISTRACTION

Photo

Thousands of people die in distracted-driving accidents every year, including more than 3,400 in 2015, according to federal data released last week. California is hoping to do something about it.

A law went into effect in the state last week with an aim toward cutting down on the number of drivers using smartphones.

As traffic deaths rise at the fastest rate in the last half-century, many states have taken steps to reduce distracted driving. But while 46 states and the District of Columbia ban texting by drivers, only 14 prohibit the use of any mobile device while driving.

With its new law, signed by Gov. Jerry Brown in September and effective Jan. 1, California has gone further than most states in prohibiting the use of cellphones: It is barring drivers from even holding mobile devices.

The law builds on earlier legislation that prevented drivers from talking and texting but did not prohibit them from streaming video, for instance, or using apps like Facebook and Twitter.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Late last month, a Texas couple filed a lawsuit against Apple over a 2014 accident in which a driver using the video-calling app FaceTime crashed into their car, killing their 5-year-old daughter.

Jennifer Ryan, the director of state relations for the travel organization AAA, said the California measure matched a larger trend in which states were bringing legislation up to date with contemporary phones. Many of the existing laws were passed before smartphones offered the number of interactive features that they do today, she said.

“We certainly anticipate there to be many bills introduced this year,” she added.

Ms. Ryan said that California’s provisions were particularly broad and that although it was “definitely a bellwether state,” states tended to evaluate policy solutions to distracted driving independently. AAA expects to see legislation introduced to address distracted driving in about 10 states, including Iowa, Massachusetts, Missouri, Virginia and Wisconsin.

According to new statistics from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 272 teenagers were killed in 2015 in what the agency described as distraction-affected crashes. The data also showed that 3,263 of the 3,477 people killed in such crashes that year had been distracted while driving.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

California’s law goes beyond even what the federal agency recommends to prevent distracted driving, said Bryan Thomas, a spokesman for the agency.

“We certainly have encouraged states to adopt ‘no texting and driving’ laws. That’s been a big focus,” Mr. Thomas said. “The most recent action has been on what can be done on manufacturers of both cars and devices on how to minimize distraction.”

But even given California’s comparatively extensive law, some experts are unconvinced that legislation alone can significantly reduce the threat of distracted driving.

Steve Finnegan, the government affairs manager of the Automobile Club of Southern California, said that although the new legislation was “a step in the right direction,” it did not address “the complete issue of distracted driving.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“One of the bigger issues is cognitive distraction,” Mr. Finnegan said. “It’s not what your hands are doing; it’s what your brain is doing.”

David G. Kidd, a senior researcher at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, an independent research organization that focuses on reducing injuries and fatalities from crashes, agreed and said that research on public policy that banned smartphone use had returned mixed results.

“There is evidence that if you do pass a law and have strong enforcement, it can change behavior,” he said. “But we don’t see a reduction in crashes that is consistent with that change in behavior.”

The institute is more focused on encouraging automakers to adapt crash avoidance technologies such as forward-collision warnings and automatic emergency braking — technological measures that are intended to help prevent front-to-rear crashes.

Those systems “are not going to reduce driver distraction, but they will help cope with some of the consequences that come with drivers not paying attention,” Mr. Kidd said.

Ms. Ryan, of AAA, said drivers’ safety ultimately rested in their hands and those of their fellow motorists.

“We really want to emphasize to motorists that driving is a very demanding task,” she said. “People really need to pay attention to the task at hand and not drive distracted.”