Andrew Bogut Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Mavericks Center
Andrew Bogut Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Mavericks Center
With the Dallas Mavericks battling to make an impact in the Western Conference, the future of center Andrew Bogut is uncertain. Continue for updates.  ESPN's Marc Stein reported the Cleveland Cavaliers are interested in getting Bogut, although he noted they are hopeful Dallas releases him so they can sign him, rather than trying to trade for the veteran big man. Per ESPN.com's Tim MacMahon , multiple teams have shown interest in trading for Bogut. The Mavericks acquired Bogut in the offseason after his previous team, the Golden State Warriors , signed Kevin Durant and needed to make roster moves to create cap space. The transition to Dallas hasn't worked out well for Bogut or the team. He's played in 19 of the Mavs' 35 games and is averaging a career-low 3.3 points per game. Bogut's time with the Mavericks was likely to be short-lived anyway, as he's playing out the final year of his contract this season. If he were having a big season and helping the team make the playoffs, there could have been some consideration for working out a new deal. Instead, Bogut has said he sees his time in Dallas basically as a one-and-done situation. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

LM Otero/Associated Press

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

With the Dallas Mavericks battling to make an impact in the Western Conference, the future of center Andrew Bogut is uncertain.

Continue for updates.

Cavs Interested in Acquiring Bogut

Saturday, Feb. 4

ESPN's Marc Stein reported the Cleveland Cavaliers are interested in getting Bogut, although he noted they are hopeful Dallas releases him so they can sign him, rather than trying to trade for the veteran big man.

Bogut Drawing Trade Interest

Thursday, Jan. 5

Per ESPN.com's Tim MacMahon, multiple teams have shown interest in trading for Bogut.

Bogut Struggling to Make Impact in Dallas

The Mavericks acquired Bogut in the offseason after his previous team, the Golden State Warriors, signed Kevin Durant and needed to make roster moves to create cap space.

The transition to Dallas hasn't worked out well for Bogut or the team. He's played in 19 of the Mavs' 35 games and is averaging a career-low 3.3 points per game.

Bogut's time with the Mavericks was likely to be short-lived anyway, as he's playing out the final year of his contract this season. If he were having a big season and helping the team make the playoffs, there could have been some consideration for working out a new deal.

Instead, Bogut has said he sees his time in Dallas basically as a one-and-done situation.

"Thankfully, I'm a free agent here, so I only have a couple of months more here and then will most likely move on," Bogut told Australia's Sky Sports Radio (h/t ESPN.com). "I don't see myself hanging around with everything that's gone on. It will be an interesting six months ahead."

If the Mavericks decide to move on from Bogut by executing a trade, they are likely only going to get salary relief without any notable assets to help build for the future.

This has been a disastrous season for the Mavericks, who have only missed the playoffs once since 2001. Bogut's desire to find a new home sounds like it could end up resulting in his being traded before the Feb. 18 deadline.