Lonely Planet gives quokka hot spot the recognition it deserves
Lonely Planet gives quokka hot spot the recognition it deserves
It's safe to say there's an abundance of choice when it come to place to visit in Australia — from urban landmarks like the Sydney Opera House to natural ones like Uluru or the Great Barrier Reef. But according to  New In 2017 list , there are two stand-out destinations you've been overlooking. One of which is Pinky's Eco Retreat and Beach Club, opening in December 2017. It's located on Rottnest Island in Western Australia, famous for its shameful colonial history , as well as its beaches and the so-called "happiest animal in the world," the quokka. SEE ALSO: You'll never feel lost at the airport again with this helpful guide robot The marsupial is internet famous, thanks to its adorable looks and gentle nature, making it a popular animal for selfies . Just look at that face. A photo posted by Geocaching (@geocaching) on Quokka + me + forehead vein make three! A photo posted by Bridget Over Troubled Water. (@bridgetmalcolm) on A photo posted by Reece Carter (@herbnerdreece) on When you've got your fill of cuteness, the freshly-opened Kangaroo Island Wilderness Trail is another stand-out attraction. It's not for the faint-hearted, however. The trek is 61 kilometres (41 miles) long, and will take approximately five days to complete. The rewards are immense though, as you stroll "through forests and along clifftops, beaches and freshwater lagoons, passing abundant wildlife as well as photogenic natural formations like Remarkable Rocks and Admirals Arch," according to . A photo posted by South Australia (@southaustralia) on If the journey to Australia is too long, there's plenty of other new places on the list. Like Philadelphia's Museum of the American Revolution, set to open in April. It's dedicated to the volatile time U.S. history, arguably fitting considering the country's political climate today. There's also LAVA , a centre dedicated to Iceland's volcanoes and earthquakes, which even has an earthquake simulator for the uninitiated. Or for the style conscious, Musées Yves Saint Laurent in Paris and Morocco are two museums dedicated to the fashion luminary. Better revisit your travel "to do" list, we say. BONUS: Take a tour of the biggest greenhouse in the world

It's safe to say there's an abundance of choice when it come to place to visit in Australia — from urban landmarks like the Sydney Opera House to natural ones like Uluru or the Great Barrier Reef.

But according to Lonely Planet's New In 2017 list, there are two stand-out destinations you've been overlooking.

One of which is Pinky's Eco Retreat and Beach Club, opening in December 2017. It's located on Rottnest Island in Western Australia, famous for its shameful colonial history, as well as its beaches and the so-called "happiest animal in the world," the quokka.

The marsupial is internet famous, thanks to its adorable looks and gentle nature, making it a popular animal for selfies.

Just look at that face.

A photo posted by Geocaching (@geocaching) on Jan 3, 2017 at 3:11pm PST

Quokka + me + forehead vein make three! A photo posted by Bridget Over Troubled Water. (@bridgetmalcolm) on Jan 2, 2017 at 4:47pm PST

A photo posted by Reece Carter (@herbnerdreece) on Jan 4, 2017 at 6:39pm PST

When you've got your fill of cuteness, the freshly-opened Kangaroo Island Wilderness Trail is another stand-out attraction.

It's not for the faint-hearted, however. The trek is 61 kilometres (41 miles) long, and will take approximately five days to complete.

The rewards are immense though, as you stroll "through forests and along clifftops, beaches and freshwater lagoons, passing abundant wildlife as well as photogenic natural formations like Remarkable Rocks and Admirals Arch," according to Lonely Planet.

A photo posted by South Australia (@southaustralia) on Nov 21, 2016 at 12:57pm PST

If the journey to Australia is too long, there's plenty of other new places on the list.

Like Philadelphia's Museum of the American Revolution, set to open in April. It's dedicated to the volatile time U.S. history, arguably fitting considering the country's political climate today.

There's also LAVA, a centre dedicated to Iceland's volcanoes and earthquakes, which even has an earthquake simulator for the uninitiated.

Or for the style conscious, Musées Yves Saint Laurent in Paris and Morocco are two museums dedicated to the fashion luminary.

Better revisit your travel "to do" list, we say.