Carrie Fisher Fan Launches a Petition to Make Leia an Official Disney Princess
Carrie Fisher Fan Launches a Petition to Make Leia an Official Disney Princess
Following Carrie Fisher’s untimely death on Dec. 27, fans from around the world have paid tribute to the actress as well as her iconic role in the film series. Some have organized Lightsaber vigils , others have donned the famous Princess Leia Organa buns , and others have created Leia-inspired art. But one fan has come with a unique way to honor Fisher’s legacy, and he could use your help. Last week, Cody Christensen launched an online petition asking Disney, which purchased Lucasfilm in 2012, to crown Leia as an official Disney Princess. “After the tragic lose of Carrie Fisher, we feel that it is only fitting for Disney to do away with the rule that an official Disney Princess must be animated and make Leia a full-fledged princess,” Christensen wrote on the Change.org page . “This would be a wonderful way to remember Carrie and a welcoming to one of Disney’s new properties that is beloved by millions.” As of Thursday evening, over 49,700 people had signed the petition, with a goal of 50,000 signatures; however, as points out, the petition may not affect Disney’s decision to turn Leia into its first live-action princess. Turns out the Disney Princess Franchise, which launched in 2000, doesn’t include every Disney leading lady—mega-popular characters such as ’s Elsa are excluded. Furthermore, Leia is already a part of ' billion-dollar merch empire, which means adding Leia to the Disney Princess line is unlikely to result in more money for the company. But, as Christensen writes, it's the sentiment the counts. "What we are asking is that the Walt Disney Corporation hold a full ceremony inducting Leia as the newest Disney princess as well as a special service in memory of Carrie Fisher," he writes. You can sign the petition here .

Following Carrie Fisher’s untimely death on Dec. 27, fans from around the world have paid tribute to the actress as well as her iconic role in the Star Wars film series. Some have organized Lightsaber vigils, others have donned the famous Princess Leia Organa buns, and others have created Leia-inspired art. But one fan has come with a unique way to honor Fisher’s Star Wars legacy, and he could use your help.

Last week, Cody Christensen launched an online petition asking Disney, which purchased Lucasfilm in 2012, to crown Leia as an official Disney Princess.

“After the tragic lose of Carrie Fisher, we feel that it is only fitting for Disney to do away with the rule that an official Disney Princess must be animated and make Leia a full-fledged princess,” Christensen wrote on the Change.org page. “This would be a wonderful way to remember Carrie and a welcoming to one of Disney’s new properties that is beloved by millions.”

As of Thursday evening, over 49,700 people had signed the petition, with a goal of 50,000 signatures; however, as Deadline points out, the petition may not affect Disney’s decision to turn Leia into its first live-action princess. Turns out the Disney Princess Franchise, which launched in 2000, doesn’t include every Disney leading lady—mega-popular characters such as Frozen’s Elsa are excluded. Furthermore, Leia is already a part of Star Wars' billion-dollar merch empire, which means adding Leia to the Disney Princess line is unlikely to result in more money for the company. But, as Christensen writes, it's the sentiment the counts.

"What we are asking is that the Walt Disney Corporation hold a full ceremony inducting Leia as the newest Disney princess as well as a special service in memory of Carrie Fisher," he writes.

You can sign the petition here.