North Korea's nuclear capability 'improving', US says



North Korea's nuclear capability 'improving', US says

Updated

North Korea's weapons capabilities have shown a "qualitative improvement" in the past year, US Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said.

Key points US Deputy Secretary of State says the threat of North Korean attack growing every day

US, South Korea, Japan bolstering defences

South Korea accuses China of indirect action for missile defence systems

He said the North conducted nuclear and missile tests with unprecedented intensity during 2016, and the threat it poses grows by the day.

Mr Blinken said the US and its allies are not "sitting still," and have bolstered defences to stay ahead of the threat.

He was speaking after a meeting with his counterparts from key US allies Japan and South Korea.

It remains unclear how close North Korea is to being able to strike the US mainland.

Leader Kim Jong Un said on Sunday that preparations for test-launching an intercontinental ballistic missile have "reached the final stage."

Meanwhile, China is suspected to be taking indirect action against South Korea's decision last year to deploy a US anti-missile system, South Korea's Finance Minister said.

China worries that the US Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) system's powerful radar can penetrate its territory and it has objected to the deployment, saying the US and South Korea will 'pay the price' for it.

South Korea and the United States say the missile system is aimed solely at countering any threat from North Korea.

It is due to be deployed this year.

"China is officially denying it, but we feel their actions are linked and that there have been indirect responses taken," Finance Minister Yoo Il-ho said.

"It's hard to ask them what they're up to when they have been denying it officially."

Mr Yoo did not elaborate on what he meant by "indirect action", but China recently rejected applications by South Korean carriers to add charter flights between the two countries.

Mr Yoo said on Sunday the Government was looking into whether China's decision to deny the airlines' applications, which came ahead of a traditional surge in Lunar New Year travel, was related to the deployment of the anti-missile system.

Chinese authorities have not responded to requests for comment on the rejection of the flight applications.

AP/Reuters

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, nuclear-issues, korea-democratic-people-s-republic-of, korea-republic-of, united-states, japan, asia

First posted