Samsung the Victorious
Samsung Earnings Give Scion Lee the Win He Needed
Samsung the Victorious   Tech  Tim Culpan is a technology columnist for Bloomberg Gadfly. He previously covered technology for Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Wow. What a result! Samsung Electronics Co.’s operating profit beat estimates handsomely. That’s despite all the bad news about exploding phones, self-destructing washing machines, a slowdown in the electronics industry and all manner of other reasons why disaster should have awaited the Korean giant. Or perhaps instead of saying the bad news, we should say of it. Sell-side analysts had clearly been expecting a much worse figure, and they had good reason to be pessimistic. Those with skin in the game saw things differently: Investors have been forgiving the company to the tune of a 24 percent rally from its September low. Exactly what’s behind the beat isn't entirely clear. Samsung released figures only for sales -- 53 trillion won ($44.6 billion) versus a 52.1 trillion won estimate for the quarter ended December -- and operating income, which came in at 9.2 trillion won against an 8.29 trillion won estimate. Yet analysts who spoke to Bloomberg News pointed to strength in its chip and display panel businesses: specifically, memory chips and advanced organic light-emitting diode screens. Both explanations make sense since prices of DRAM chips, which are highly volatile, climbed. Competitor Micron Technology Inc. forecast strong sales and earnings back in October and again last month. The situation for OLED screens is less transparent because they aren't as commoditized as memory chips, yet Samsung still dominates that product category and demand appears quite strong even amid weakness in global smartphone and television markets. Apart from investors who were quick to excuse Samsung for its Galaxy Note 7 and washing machine debacles, the other real winner will be Jay Y. Lee. The Samsung scion and heir apparent moved to the boardroom late last year, and almost as soon as he took his seat had to face two sets of challenges from outside: one from South Korean lawmakers amid an investigation of the nation’s president, and the other from activist investors seeking sweeping changes at the company. Neither went smoothly, but he survived and the shares kept rising. In delivering earnings that surpassed expectations, Lee gets to chalk up a win at a time he really needed it. No one will think he is the sole reason for these stronger numbers, but they do help him push back against notions -- verbalized or not -- that Samsung is in trouble and that he doesn’t have what it takes to lead. That means for once, both Lee and investors are winners. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at tculpan1@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at mbrooker1@bloomberg.net Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer  Outsized Robot Cars  Blessed Are the Chipmakers   Tech  Thin Cushion Yurt Hurt  Don't Play With Mongolian Fire   Markets  Gain since Duterte took office Optimism alloyed  The Nickel Reversion   Commodities  First Impressions  I'm Fascinated by Snapchat Charts, So I Liveblogged   Tech  Trump on the New York Times Special Edition  Trump Times: A Tale of Two Newsrooms   Media  Proposed H-1B minimum Nail. Coffin  Indian Tech's Post-Truth Moment   Tech  Bumpy Ride Let It Go  Ego Gets The Best Of Ralph Lauren   Consumer  Merck's Just-Broken Streak Of Beating Earnings Forecasts Uneasy Lies The Head  Merck Can't Rest Easy on Its Throne   Health

Wow. What a result!

Samsung Electronics Co.’s operating profit beat estimates handsomely. That’s despite all the bad news about exploding phones, self-destructing washing machines, a slowdown in the electronics industry and all manner of other reasons why disaster should have awaited the Korean giant.

Or perhaps instead of saying despite the bad news, we should say because of it. Sell-side analysts had clearly been expecting a much worse figure, and they had good reason to be pessimistic. Those with skin in the game saw things differently: Investors have been forgiving the company to the tune of a 24 percent rally from its September low.

Profit Motive With Samsung's 4Q operating profit beating estimates, investors are hoping the good news will flow through to net income Source: Bloomberg

Exactly what’s behind the beat isn't entirely clear. Samsung released figures only for sales -- 53 trillion won ($44.6 billion) versus a 52.1 trillion won estimate for the quarter ended December -- and operating income, which came in at 9.2 trillion won against an 8.29 trillion won estimate. Yet analysts who spoke to Bloomberg News pointed to strength in its chip and display panel businesses: specifically, memory chips and advanced organic light-emitting diode screens.

Samsung 4Q sales $44.6 billion

Both explanations make sense since prices of DRAM chips, which are highly volatile, climbed. Competitor Micron Technology Inc. forecast strong sales and earnings back in October and again last month. The situation for OLED screens is less transparent because they aren't as commoditized as memory chips, yet Samsung still dominates that product category and demand appears quite strong even amid weakness in global smartphone and television markets.

Apart from investors who were quick to excuse Samsung for its Galaxy Note 7 and washing machine debacles, the other real winner will be Jay Y. Lee. The Samsung scion and heir apparent moved to the boardroom late last year, and almost as soon as he took his seat had to face two sets of challenges from outside: one from South Korean lawmakers amid an investigation of the nation’s president, and the other from activist investors seeking sweeping changes at the company.

Forgiven Samsung shares have rallied since a September low amid the Galaxy Note 7 battery crisis Source: Bloomberg

Neither went smoothly, but he survived and the shares kept rising. In delivering earnings that surpassed expectations, Lee gets to chalk up a win at a time he really needed it. No one will think he is the sole reason for these stronger numbers, but they do help him push back against notions -- verbalized or not -- that Samsung is in trouble and that he doesn’t have what it takes to lead.

That means for once, both Lee and investors are winners.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Tim Culpan in Taipei at tculpan1@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Matthew Brooker at mbrooker1@bloomberg.net