What It Was Like to Cover the Menendez Murder Trial: Reporter's Notebook
Covering the Menendez Murder Trial: Reporter's Notebook
Shares               It's been more than two decades since I covered the trial of the Menendez brothers for Court TV. And after all these years, the case still haunts me. The tragedy of it. The violence. The raw pain in that courtroom. The way the catastrophe of the Menendez family emerged gradually, day after day, in the testimony and evidence in the trial, the monstrous portrait of a family's secrets, lies, and broken dreams slowly coming into horrible focus. It was hard to watch. Few stories I've ever covered have been so emotional. And I think it was because this was primarily a family story. And families are the crucible of our lives and of our melodramas, the place where our most intense connections are forged--and broken. The Menendez family disintegrated. Literally. You'd have to have a heart of stone not to have compassion for all of them--Jose, Kitty, Lyle and Eric; the parents and their children, the victims and their killers.   Reporters and crews from around the world came to the courthouse in Van Nuys, CA, to bring this family's disaster to all the folks back home. But something happened with all that media coverage, and it reached a critical mass when Lyle and Erik Menendez took the witness stand to tell their stories. They were transformed. So were their parents. Their family tragedy became a kind of national game-show or cartoon--unreal, drained of the pain that flowed through the courtroom every day. On cable news, where commentators in studios across the country gleefully opined on their story; on Saturday Night Live , where John Malkovich and Rob Schneider got big laughs mocking the brothers' tears on the witness stand; to the stages of countless comedy clubs--they were a joke. It was all a joke. I learned a valuable lesson from all that: Ignore the hype. Remember--always remember--that no matter how big a story gets, it's always about real people, real life, in the first instance. As soon as a reporter loses that connection--that empathy--cynicism creeps in. And cynicism kills real journalism. It's my belief and my hope that the ABC documentary "Truth and Lies" can help to scrape off the hype and cynicism from this old case, and restore us to the human reality of what happened to this American family, to the truth of their lives. They deserve it. All of them.  Shares                  Covering the Menendez Murder Trial: Reporter's Notebook  Erik Menendez's Friends Explain His Racy Pics, Script About Son Who Kills  Lyle Menendez on Prison Life, Separation From His Brother   Tom Brady on Missing Super Bowl Jersey: If It Shows Up on eBay 'Let Me Know'   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Apple, Google, Uber Join Fight Against Trump Travel Ban   2 States Say Allowing Travel Ban Would 'Unleash Chaos Again'   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Pence: Education Pick DeVos Will Be Confirmed With His Vote   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Despite White House Warning, Israel Pushes Settlement Bill   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   College Responds to Trump's Order With Refugee Scholarship   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

It's been more than two decades since I covered the trial of the Menendez brothers for Court TV. And after all these years, the case still haunts me.

The tragedy of it. The violence. The raw pain in that courtroom. The way the catastrophe of the Menendez family emerged gradually, day after day, in the testimony and evidence in the trial, the monstrous portrait of a family's secrets, lies, and broken dreams slowly coming into horrible focus. It was hard to watch.

Few stories I've ever covered have been so emotional. And I think it was because this was primarily a family story. And families are the crucible of our lives and of our melodramas, the place where our most intense connections are forged--and broken.

The Menendez family disintegrated. Literally. You'd have to have a heart of stone not to have compassion for all of them--Jose, Kitty, Lyle and Eric; the parents and their children, the victims and their killers.

But some of that human, emotional reality was lost in all the coverage back then. I was still a relatively new TV reporter, and I'd never seen anything like the Menendez trial. It was my first media circus.

Reporters and crews from around the world came to the courthouse in Van Nuys, CA, to bring this family's disaster to all the folks back home.

But something happened with all that media coverage, and it reached a critical mass when Lyle and Erik Menendez took the witness stand to tell their stories.

They were transformed. So were their parents. Their family tragedy became a kind of national game-show or cartoon--unreal, drained of the pain that flowed through the courtroom every day.

On cable news, where commentators in studios across the country gleefully opined on their story; on Saturday Night Live, where John Malkovich and Rob Schneider got big laughs mocking the brothers' tears on the witness stand; to the stages of countless comedy clubs--they were a joke. It was all a joke.

I learned a valuable lesson from all that: Ignore the hype. Remember--always remember--that no matter how big a story gets, it's always about real people, real life, in the first instance. As soon as a reporter loses that connection--that empathy--cynicism creeps in. And cynicism kills real journalism.

It's my belief and my hope that the ABC documentary "Truth and Lies" can help to scrape off the hype and cynicism from this old case, and restore us to the human reality of what happened to this American family, to the truth of their lives. They deserve it. All of them.

Terry Moran is the chief foreign correspondent for ABC News. Watch the two-hour special, "Truth and Lies: The Menendez Brothers," on Jan. 5 at 9 p.m. ET on ABC.