Has South Korea really hired an official to monitor Donald Trump's tweets?
Has South Korea really hired an official to monitor Donald Trump's tweets?
Media reports are swirling about South Korea's alleged plans to appoint a government official just to monitor Donald Trump's tweets. But if it sounds too crazy to be true, it might just be. SEE ALSO: China slams Trump's 'obsession with Twitter' Apparently, the U.S. president-elect's tweets are currently the "most effective insight into policies of the incoming administration," according to Korean news outlet . The official is meant to pay particular attention to tweets relating to Korea and northeast Asia. Trump is known for his largely critical tweets about North Korea and China, though he rarely makes mention of South Korea. North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S. It won't happen! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2017 Does the job really exist? But while outlets continue to report the news, nearly every one solely cites the . The country’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has yet to put out an official statement confirming the appointment. Yonhap, the country’s largest news organisation, covered the news. When called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs office in South Korea, the government workers on the other end appeared confused about the news. We've sent an email to them to follow up, and will update the piece if they respond. Sarah Kim, the reporter who wrote the original piece, told the outlet relied on "first-hand sources." "I believe JoongAng reported on this first and we are based in Seoul with first-hand sources," Kim said in an email. People online have been quick to point out the irony of the post, should it be real. Looks like that's one more job sent overseas. BONUS: Trump wants easier tech trade across borders

Media reports are swirling about South Korea's alleged plans to appoint a government official just to monitor Donald Trump's tweets.

But if it sounds too crazy to be true, it might just be.

Apparently, the U.S. president-elect's tweets are currently the "most effective insight into policies of the incoming administration," according to Korean news outlet Joong Ang Daily.

The official is meant to pay particular attention to tweets relating to Korea and northeast Asia.

Trump is known for his largely critical tweets about North Korea and China, though he rarely makes mention of South Korea.

North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S. It won't happen! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2017

Does the job really exist?

But while outlets continue to report the news, nearly every one solely cites the Joong Ang Daily.

The country’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has yet to put out an official statement confirming the appointment.

Yonhap, the country’s largest news organisation, covered the news.

When Mashable called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs office in South Korea, the government workers on the other end appeared confused about the news. We've sent an email to them to follow up, and will update the piece if they respond.

Sarah Kim, the Joong Ang Daily reporter who wrote the original piece, told Mashable the outlet relied on "first-hand sources."

"I believe JoongAng reported on this first and we are based in Seoul with first-hand sources," Kim said in an email.

People online have been quick to point out the irony of the post, should it be real.

Looks like that's one more job sent overseas.