Nottingham student nicknamed 'Kazakhstan Barbie' hits back at her Muslim critics online
Student nicknamed 'Kazakhstan Barbie' hits back at Muslim critics


A Nottingham student nicknamed the Kazakhstan Barbie has lashed back at Muslim critics in her homeland who slammed her latest collection of sexy social media snaps.

The photoshoot shows Dinara Rakhimbaeva, 21, who is studying finance at the University of Nottingham, flaunting her perfect body in sexy lingerie.

The 5-foot 9-inch student has a tiny 22-inch waist, measures 34 inches around her hips and weighs 7 stone.

Dinara Rakhimbaeva, 21, who is studying finance at the University of Nottingham, has been dubbed the Kazakhstan Barbie

The 5-foot 9-inch student has a tiny 22-inch waist, measures 34 inches around her hips and weighs 7 stone

Critics in her homeland have slammed her latest collection of sexy social media snaps

One snap shows her in a lacy black bra, panties and suspender belt while another shows her wearing a flesh-coloured lacy camisole.

But the pictures provoked a storm of controversy back home in Kazakhstan where the majority Muslim population take a dim view of such displays of female flesh.

One person commented: 'Dinara this is too much, there is nothing beautiful in this picture.

'Only people we love should be allowed to see our naked body, you are good looking but you should not expose your body to anyone!'

One snap which generated criticism shows her in a lacy black bra, panties and suspender belt

The model frequently showcases her doll-like figure on her social media accounts

Dinara answered her critics directly on her Instagram, saying: 'I would like to wish you all happiness and love'

And another female social media user complained: 'You should not show your bare t**s like that!'

Dinara answered her critics directly on her social media page by saying: 'You girls seem to have forgotten that you should be kind by nature.

'Why are you so mean? There is so much hate directed towards me but I did not do nothing to you.

'I would like to wish you all happiness and love.'

Miss Rakhimbaeva has previously complained about being compared to Barbie

The model insists her likeness to the doll is purely coincidental

Dinara has asked her critics: 'Why are you so mean?'

Her pictures have provoked a storm of controversy back home in Kazakhstan

Miss Rakhimbaeva, from the city of Almaty in south-eastern Kazakhstan, has previously complained about being compared to Barbie saying her likeness to the doll is coincidental.

She was particularly annoyed at being likened to Valeria Lukyanova, 30 - the so-called 'Ukrainian Barbie' - who had breast implants and wears coloured lenses to look more like the doll.