CCTV shows a Brazilian taxi driver shot dead by gunman holding a child in his arms
CCTV shows the moment a taxi driver shot dead by gunman holding child


as Tome de Freitas and is currently at large

Chilling CCTV footage captured the moment a motorcycle taxi driver resting on a couch was shot dead by a man carrying a young child in his arms.

Surveillance cameras show suspected murderer, identified locally as Welber Tome de Freitas, calmly walking up to Vilmar Florenco de Oliveira Junior and blasting him twice in the neck.

He appeared to hide his weapon at times behind a shawl the youngster was carrying, whipping it out after confronting his victim and then firing.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT

The assailant walks into the taxi rank gun pointing and child in his arms

He then turned around and walked away as if nothing had happened, making his getaway in a red car which was later found abandoned.

Bizarrely a second taxi driver carried on sleeping on a sofa opposite despite the commotion.

The horrifying execution of 37-year-old Vilmar happened at a motorcycle taxi office in the Brazilian city of Uberlandia, the second largest in the south-eastern state of Minas Gerais, just before 11pm on Tuesday.

Police are hunting the cold-blooded killer and are said to be focusing on the theory the killing was drugs-related with local reports saying the victim had been in prison for drugs trafficking and theft.

Wicked: Vilmar Florenco de Oliveira Junior was shot twice in the neck by Welber Tome de Freitas

The fact the gunman murdered him while he had a young child in his arms has shocked Brazilians in a country which is used to extreme violence.

It is not known if the girl pictured in the CCTV footage was the shooter's daughter or not.

Sandra Cunha wrote on a social media posting: 'Poor girl. What's she going to be like after growing up seeing these sorts of barbarities.'

Jorge Custodio added: 'It's obvious he used the child for the surprise factor. Horrifying.'

Employees of the taxi firm where the murder occurred burnt the sofa Vilmar was using on waste ground outside so they did not have to live with the constant reminder of what had happened.