Pakistan Building Its 'First Missile Warship' That Would Protect CPEC Route
Pakistan Building Its 'First Missile Warship' That Would Protect CPEC Route
Pakistan Building Its 'First Missile Warship' That Would Protect CPEC Route Pakistan Navy is a non-entity when it comes in comparison with mighty Indian Navy which an undisputed leader in the Indian Ocean, but in a bid to secure the trade route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Pakistan is building its first missile warship. The warship which was designed by Maritime Technologies Complex is Pakistan's “first indigenously designed missile boat” and will have the “latest weapons and sensors,” Defense News reported Tuesday. The warship will also include anti-ship missiles and original combat system. According to some rumours, weapons on the boat will be the C-602, a similar version of Chinese YJ-62. CPEC has been deemed as a game changer for Pakistan and Pakistan doesn't want to fail it at any cost. The $46 billion project is a trade route that connects Kashgar in China and Gwadar in Pakistan in final phases of construction. The trade route would establish ties between the western parts of China to the Arabian Sea through Gwadar’s water port. The project mainly relates to “evolvement of economic activities” as well as “cooperation in energy, transport infrastructure (road, railways, and airports), Gwadar port and city projects, and Industrial parks,” the CPEC's official website states. CPEC is extremely important for China as well as CPEC, China wants to increase its reach to Middle-East and Central Asian Countries. It will be a big relief for China in terms of oil imports because after the construction of CPEC, China will be able to transport the crude oil purchased from the middle east to China with even getting into the Indian Ocean and it will save China large amount of money which it currently spends on transport. Pakistan's PM Nawaz Shariff too is hopefull of CPEC that it would Pakistan's sinking fortunes and make the country economically robust. "The participants of the pilot convoy, who have made it to Gwadar, are the harbingers of development and progress, that this region is to see soon," he said. The trade route will also be useful for resolving peace efforts in Balochistan, Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa said to a crowd Thursday at Khuzdar Engineering University. “I’m confident that the current security challenges and external efforts to derail peace will end with the growing realisation of geo-economic advantages of a fully developed China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project and infrastructure projects all over Balochistan,” Pakistan's new army chief was quoted by International Business Times. Balochistan – a province in Pakistan –  has experienced insurgencies following Pakistan's annexation of the Baloch state of Kalat nearly 50 years ago. Armed separatist groups including Lashkar-e-Balochistan and Balochistan Liberation Army are also demanding independence from Pakistan.

Pakistan Navy is a non-entity when it comes in comparison with mighty Indian Navy which an undisputed leader in the Indian Ocean, but in a bid to secure the trade route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Pakistan is building its first missile warship. The warship which was designed by Maritime Technologies Complex is Pakistan's “first indigenously designed missile boat” and will have the “latest weapons and sensors,” Defense News reported Tuesday.

AFP

The warship will also include anti-ship missiles and original combat system. According to some rumours, weapons on the boat will be the C-602, a similar version of Chinese YJ-62. CPEC has been deemed as a game changer for Pakistan and Pakistan doesn't want to fail it at any cost. The $46 billion project is a trade route that connects Kashgar in China and Gwadar in Pakistan in final phases of construction. The trade route would establish ties between the western parts of China to the Arabian Sea through Gwadar’s water port.

AFP

The project mainly relates to “evolvement of economic activities” as well as “cooperation in energy, transport infrastructure (road, railways, and airports), Gwadar port and city projects, and Industrial parks,” the CPEC's official website states. CPEC is extremely important for China as well as CPEC, China wants to increase its reach to Middle-East and Central Asian Countries. It will be a big relief for China in terms of oil imports because after the construction of CPEC, China will be able to transport the crude oil purchased from the middle east to China with even getting into the Indian Ocean and it will save China large amount of money which it currently spends on transport.

Reuters

Pakistan's PM Nawaz Shariff too is hopefull of CPEC that it would Pakistan's sinking fortunes and make the country economically robust.

"The participants of the pilot convoy, who have made it to Gwadar, are the harbingers of development and progress, that this region is to see soon," he said. The trade route will also be useful for resolving peace efforts in Balochistan, Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa said to a crowd Thursday at Khuzdar Engineering University.

“I’m confident that the current security challenges and external efforts to derail peace will end with the growing realisation of geo-economic advantages of a fully developed China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project and infrastructure projects all over Balochistan,” Pakistan's new army chief was quoted by International Business Times.

Balochistan – a province in Pakistan – has experienced insurgencies following Pakistan's annexation of the Baloch state of Kalat nearly 50 years ago. Armed separatist groups including Lashkar-e-Balochistan and Balochistan Liberation Army are also demanding independence from Pakistan.