Uni Watch early look at All-Star Game uniforms
2017 NBA All-Star Game uniforms have different look
2017 NBA All-Star Game uniforms have different look LeBron James defies a long history of misses Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Shumpert suffers ankle sprain early in Cavs' win LeBron James defies a long history of misses Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kerr fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Rodman gets 3 years' probation in freeway crash Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sports journalism's foremost uniform reporter ESPN.com columnist since 2004 Also blogs at uni-watch.com Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The 2017 NBA All-Star Game is scheduled to take place on Feb. 19 in New Orleans, and on Thursday fans got their first look at what the players will be wearing, as a photo of the uniforms was tweeted by sports columnist Rod Walker of the New Orleans Advocate, and additional photos began circulating on social media. Here's a look at the jerseys for this year's NBA all star game to be played here in New Orleans. pic.twitter.com/GKz6OwMzLT - Rod Walker (@rwalkeradvocate) January 5, 2017 Rear view of 2017 NBA All-Star jerseys. pic.twitter.com/Pfxrxqxe9C - Paul Lukas (@UniWatch) January 5, 2017 Unlike other recent NBA All-Star uniforms, the designs are fairly generic, with no local flavor reflecting the host city. That's likely due to the game having been moved to New Orleans from Charlotte, which was originally slated to host the game. The NBA chose to relocate the game in response to North Carolina's controversial HB2 law, which limits anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay and transgender people. Uniforms for the league's two recent All-Star Games in New Orleans featured unmistakable local design flourishes -- lettering based on wrought-iron fencing in 2008 and big fleur-de-lis chest logos in 2014. The game's relocation presumably left no time for that type of approach this year. Previous NBA All-Star Games in New Orleans, in 2008 (top) and 2014, featured uniforms with more local flair than this year's. pic.twitter.com/eNoyaC6PQ9 - Paul Lukas (@UniWatch) January 5, 2017

The 2017 NBA All-Star Game is scheduled to take place on Feb. 19 in New Orleans, and on Thursday fans got their first look at what the players will be wearing, as a photo of the uniforms was tweeted by sports columnist Rod Walker of the New Orleans Advocate, and additional photos began circulating on social media.

Here's a look at the jerseys for this year's NBA all star game to be played here in New Orleans. pic.twitter.com/GKz6OwMzLT - Rod Walker (@rwalkeradvocate) January 5, 2017

Rear view of 2017 NBA All-Star jerseys. pic.twitter.com/Pfxrxqxe9C - Paul Lukas (@UniWatch) January 5, 2017

Unlike other recent NBA All-Star uniforms, the designs are fairly generic, with no local flavor reflecting the host city. That's likely due to the game having been moved to New Orleans from Charlotte, which was originally slated to host the game. The NBA chose to relocate the game in response to North Carolina's controversial HB2 law, which limits anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay and transgender people.

Uniforms for the league's two recent All-Star Games in New Orleans featured unmistakable local design flourishes -- lettering based on wrought-iron fencing in 2008 and big fleur-de-lis chest logos in 2014. The game's relocation presumably left no time for that type of approach this year.

Previous NBA All-Star Games in New Orleans, in 2008 (top) and 2014, featured uniforms with more local flair than this year's. pic.twitter.com/eNoyaC6PQ9 - Paul Lukas (@UniWatch) January 5, 2017

Some additional notes regarding the uniforms:

• The East will wear light gray and the West will wear dark charcoal.

• Both uniforms simply have "All-Star" on the chest, without the most common "East" and "West" conference designations.

• For the second consecutive year, the All-Star jerseys will carry an advertising patch for the Kia car brand. (Starting next season, all NBA teams will be permitted to carry advertising patches on their regular game jerseys.)

• As has been standard in recent years, the All-Star jerseys also will carry the Adidas logo. NBA jerseys have never included manufacturers' logos for regular-season games, but that will change next season, when Nike takes over the league's uniform contract and will be permitted to place its familiar swoosh logo on team uniforms.

If you like this column, you'll probably like Paul Lukas' Uni Watch Blog, plus you can follow him on Twitter and Facebook. Want to learn about his Uni Watch Membership Program, be added to his mailing list so you'll always know when a new column has been posted or just ask him a question? Contact him here.