Meet Leonard Kim: From Homeless To Personal Branding Expert
Meet Leonard Kim: From Homeless To Personal Branding Expert
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Winnie Sun       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Leonard Kim Photo Credit: Evan Duning In 2010, Leonard Kim unplugged his microwave, picked it up, walked out of his apartment, down the hallway, and plugged it into the outlet at the end of the hallway usually used only by maintenance staff. He couldn’t pay his electric bill and it was the only way he could heat his $3 dinner. Soon after he was unable to pay the rent and homeless. Three months ago he was named by Inc. Magazine as one of the top youth marketers in the country. He doesn’t have to worry about that electric bill so much anymore. Now the managing partner of InfluenceTree , a personal branding accelerator based in Southern California, he’s one of the most prolific voices of his generation.  A content beast, Kim has penned thousands of articles over the last few years, including an astonishing 1000+ in 2015 alone. His writing drew a devout following, pushing him from an unknown on social media to more than 200,000 Twitter followers. He spends his days as the social media specialist for the Keck School of Medicine  University . He runs weekly course lessons on personal branding that have attracted students from across the globe. His readers enjoy his honest, raw conversations of family issues, depression, failure after failure, and how he ultimately picked himself up from homelessness in just a couple years ago to being one of the most followed and read writers of the Millennial generation. It changed, he says, because he “was sick and tired of being sick and tired.” I first met Kim when he jumped on my weekly financial #WinnieSun tweet chat and his blunt responses caught my attention. I asked him to visit the office where I recently interviewed him for my podcast. I was stunned. At 31, he’s learned so much about himself, and is tremendously humble for being so.. well, popular. After working for several startups, helping build them up, generate healthy revenue, and then watching somewhat helplessly as they were unable to remain sustainable and eventually failed. All that work, all that time, and there was nothing to show for it. Instead, he decided to focus his energy on what he could control. His brand, his personal brand, and reputation. “Before you can go out there and build your brand, you first have to discover who you are. It's easy to think that you are a certain way, but is that really how the world sees you? The first lesson in my course at InfluenceTree provides a post-it note exercise, where you give everyone you know a post-it note and have them anonymously place one word on it. After you collect these back, you get a stack of post-it notes and you write what you think of yourself onto them. Then you put them on the wall and start to group them together. “After you do this, you will be able to From there, you will know what your strengths are and what you need to work on.” “After you discover your brand, you will want to start to create your bios and get professional photos. Most people design their bios like a resume. But much like how employers glance over a resume and toss them in the trash within six seconds, people do the same with bios. Think about the character development that went into creating Spiderman and Batman. They aren't massively followed because they're superheroes. They're massively followed because they have an intriguing backstory and reason for doing what they do, plus they are both unique individuals with quirky interests. “When you do your photo shoot, don't take boring pictures. You want to take pictures of you doing what you love doing, so others can relate to you. The worst thing you can do is scare people away as they try to learn more about you.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

In 2010, Leonard Kim unplugged his microwave, picked it up, walked out of his apartment, down the hallway, and plugged it into the outlet at the end of the hallway usually used only by maintenance staff. He couldn’t pay his electric bill and it was the only way he could heat his $3 dinner. Soon after he was unable to pay the rent and homeless.

Three months ago he was named by Inc. Magazine as one of the top youth marketers in the country.

He doesn’t have to worry about that electric bill so much anymore.

Now the managing partner of InfluenceTree, a personal branding accelerator based in Southern California, he’s one of the most prolific voices of his generation. A content beast, Kim has penned thousands of articles over the last few years, including an astonishing 1000+ in 2015 alone.

His writing drew a devout following, pushing him from an unknown on social media to more than 200,000 Twitter followers.

He spends his days as the social media specialist for the Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California . He runs weekly course lessons on personal branding that have attracted students from across the globe. His readers enjoy his honest, raw conversations of family issues, depression, failure after failure, and how he ultimately picked himself up from homelessness in just a couple years ago to being one of the most followed and read writers of the Millennial generation.

It changed, he says, because he “was sick and tired of being sick and tired.”

I first met Kim when he jumped on my weekly financial #WinnieSun tweet chat and his blunt responses caught my attention. I asked him to visit the office where I recently interviewed him for my podcast. I was stunned. At 31, he’s learned so much about himself, and is tremendously humble for being so.. well, popular.

After working for several startups, helping build them up, generate healthy revenue, and then watching somewhat helplessly as they were unable to remain sustainable and eventually failed. All that work, all that time, and there was nothing to show for it. Instead, he decided to focus his energy on what he could control. His brand, his personal brand, and reputation.

Here are Leonard’s tips for personal branding:

1. Discover your brand

“Before you can go out there and build your brand, you first have to discover who you are. It's easy to think that you are a certain way, but is that really how the world sees you? The first lesson in my course at InfluenceTree provides a post-it note exercise, where you give everyone you know a post-it note and have them anonymously place one word on it. After you collect these back, you get a stack of post-it notes and you write what you think of yourself onto them. Then you put them on the wall and start to group them together.

“After you do this, you will be able to see how the world truly views you as opposed to just how you view yourself. From there, you will know what your strengths are and what you need to work on.”

2. Humanize yourself

“After you discover your brand, you will want to start to create your bios and get professional photos. Most people design their bios like a resume. But much like how employers glance over a resume and toss them in the trash within six seconds, people do the same with bios. You need to personalize your bio and showcase your interests and your backstory. Think about the character development that went into creating Spiderman and Batman. They aren't massively followed because they're superheroes. They're massively followed because they have an intriguing backstory and reason for doing what they do, plus they are both unique individuals with quirky interests.

“When you do your photo shoot, don't take boring pictures. You want to take pictures of you doing what you love doing, so others can relate to you. The worst thing you can do is scare people away as they try to learn more about you.”