Katie Piper: Model left burned after acid attack shares tips on rebuilding confidence
Katie Piper: Model left burned after acid attack shares tips on rebuilding confidence
Eight years after being the victim of a heinous acid attack which left her with third degree burns and blind in one eye, Katie Piper probably did not expect to be writing a book on confidence. The TV personality has written her fifth book: , which she describes as part self-help and part autobiographical. “I wrote it in response to the questions I’m always asked: ‘How are you so confident? How did you get through things?’ I did not want it to be a fluffy read like: ‘Oh I’m just positive or I’m brave’ because that doesn’t really cut it at a point of real disaster in your life when you have a lot of self-doubt,” she tells . The “disaster” that happened to Piper is well-documented after she chose to waive her right to anonymity as a rape survivor. Aged 24, she had sulphuric acid thrown in her face by Stefan Sylvestre, an act organised by her ex-boyfriend Daniel Lynch who had previously brutally raped and violently assaulted her (both men are currently serving life sentences in prison). The attack left her permanently scarred, she has since had over 100 operations. Inspiring body positivity quotes               Inspiring body positivity quotes    Kate Winslet   "Nobody is perfect. I just don't believe in perfection. But I do believe in saying, 'This is who I am and look at me not being perfect.' I'm proud of that."   Getty Images     Iskra Lawrence   Stop comparing yourself to anybody else. The [pictures of] movie stars, even the Disney characters, that’s not real. That’s not attainable. You can’t be anybody else. You are you. You can’t be them. So you really just have to start embracing yourself and accepting so-called flaws that society has given the name ‘flaws’. It’s just our body, our patchwork quilt.”      Jennifer Lawrence   "It should be illegal to call someone fat."      Ashley Graham   "And cellulite, I have not forgotten about you. I'm going to choose to love you even though you want to take over my whole bottom half. You're a part of me and I love you."      Demi Lovato   "Instead of looking in the mirror and focusing on your flaws, look in the mirror and appreciate your best features... everyone has them."      Danielle Brooks   "Sometimes I don't like what I see, but I have the power to change the way in which I relate to my body both physically and mentally."      Rihanna   "You just want something that someone else has, but that doesn't mean what you have isn't beautiful, because people always want what you have and you always want what they have - no one is ever 100 per cent like, 'Yes, I'm the bomb-dot-com - from head-to-toe!"      Kim Kardashian-West   "See this little dimple of cellulite here? It was so worth it for that cookies 'n' cream ice cream!"      Mindy Kaling   'Insults about the way I look can’t be the thing that harms me and my heart the most. It has to harm me the least. If I have a daughter, I’m going to tell her that. Far too many women are much more hurt by being called fat or ugly than they are by being called not smart, or not a leader."      Beyoncé   "The most alluring thing a woman can have is confidence."   Getty Images     Selena Gomez   "I’m learning that you can be comfortable and still look beautiful.”      Tess Holliday   "Never compare yourself with others and celebrate what makes you, you."   Piper chose to speak out and share her story because she was tired of being “a faceless, voiceless person”. “I felt cocooned by something and wanted to break free. I am glad I did it because the thing I am most passionate about is normalising this in society, burns and scars, the more you see and hear of it in everyday life, the less of a taboo subject it comes.” Confidence is something she has amassed since her recovery: “Everything [physically] is really well documented, that was the point of the book, my psychological recovery is on-going,” she explains. Things which have helped Piper recover psychologically include exercise and the help of loved ones. “It is recognising that I can’t do things alone: relying on and confiding in people, letting people in and not seeing that as a failure. Reaching out to someone doesn’t mean you cannot do this.” Since the documentary which propelled her to household name-status, Piper has successfully carved a career for herself, fronting numerous TV series, modelling and designing baby accessories after having her daughter Belle. She has also established her foundation which supports and mentors people with scars and disfigurements. She says for a person with a disfigurement a different approach is needed to restore confidence. “You can’t just tell someone that has come out of a coma: ‘Believe in yourself, be confident’ it is kind of patronising. Actually, there is a big thing for allowing yourself to be depressed or not coping and recognising that is normal and real life.   Katie Piper criticises people wearing fake burns for Halloween “There is so much on Instagram with positive quotes and about being positive, we have to be careful about not making people who are not positive feel like they are failing or not coping. That is ok, who wants to walk around like a robot, constantly repeating affirmations?” Piper is of the view that no one is exempt from finding confidence, it is something everyone can access: “It is not an exclusive club. It is not a quality that only some people are blessed with. Don’t look at people and envy them and think: ‘I wish I had some of her confidence’. Everyone has it, you just have to bring it out, develop it, trust it and go with it.” For Piper, recapturing the confidence she had prior to the attack (“I was really confident, I was going out, clubbing, leading a selfish, carefree young person’s life in London”) was something she achieved at her own pace, a message she is keen to pass on to others.  “I didn’t come out of hospital trying to be as confident as Obama the next week,” the 33-year-old says laughing. “Set yourself achievable goals so that you are always experiencing success. Do not set yourself unachievable things and make yourself feel like a constant failure. You have got to be realistic. Life is all about striving to be best you can be, not a celebrity you have never met or an unrealistic image in your mind; you are being your own worst enemy doing that.” And the main thing that has helped Piper regain her confidence after everything she has been through: Self-acceptance of “yourself and your situation”. “Accepting the things that you cannot change and letting go of them and putting your energies into the ones you can change,” she summarises. More about: Katie Piper Comments

Eight years after being the victim of a heinous acid attack which left her with third degree burns and blind in one eye, Katie Piper probably did not expect to be writing a book on confidence.

The TV personality has written her fifth book: Confidence: The Secret, which she describes as part self-help and part autobiographical.

“I wrote it in response to the questions I’m always asked: ‘How are you so confident? How did you get through things?’ I did not want it to be a fluffy read like: ‘Oh I’m just positive or I’m brave’ because that doesn’t really cut it at a point of real disaster in your life when you have a lot of self-doubt,” she tells The Independent.

The “disaster” that happened to Piper is well-documented after she chose to waive her right to anonymity as a rape survivor. Aged 24, she had sulphuric acid thrown in her face by Stefan Sylvestre, an act organised by her ex-boyfriend Daniel Lynch who had previously brutally raped and violently assaulted her (both men are currently serving life sentences in prison). The attack left her permanently scarred, she has since had over 100 operations.

Inspiring body positivity quotes







12 show all Inspiring body positivity quotes





















1/12 Kate Winslet "Nobody is perfect. I just don't believe in perfection. But I do believe in saying, 'This is who I am and look at me not being perfect.' I'm proud of that." Getty Images

2/12 Iskra Lawrence Stop comparing yourself to anybody else. The [pictures of] movie stars, even the Disney characters, that’s not real. That’s not attainable. You can’t be anybody else. You are you. You can’t be them. So you really just have to start embracing yourself and accepting so-called flaws that society has given the name ‘flaws’. It’s just our body, our patchwork quilt.”

3/12 Jennifer Lawrence "It should be illegal to call someone fat."

4/12 Ashley Graham "And cellulite, I have not forgotten about you. I'm going to choose to love you even though you want to take over my whole bottom half. You're a part of me and I love you."

5/12 Demi Lovato "Instead of looking in the mirror and focusing on your flaws, look in the mirror and appreciate your best features... everyone has them."

6/12 Danielle Brooks "Sometimes I don't like what I see, but I have the power to change the way in which I relate to my body both physically and mentally."

7/12 Rihanna "You just want something that someone else has, but that doesn't mean what you have isn't beautiful, because people always want what you have and you always want what they have - no one is ever 100 per cent like, 'Yes, I'm the bomb-dot-com - from head-to-toe!"

8/12 Kim Kardashian-West "See this little dimple of cellulite here? It was so worth it for that cookies 'n' cream ice cream!"

9/12 Mindy Kaling 'Insults about the way I look can’t be the thing that harms me and my heart the most. It has to harm me the least. If I have a daughter, I’m going to tell her that. Far too many women are much more hurt by being called fat or ugly than they are by being called not smart, or not a leader."

10/12 Beyoncé "The most alluring thing a woman can have is confidence." Getty Images

11/12 Selena Gomez "I’m learning that you can be comfortable and still look beautiful.”

12/12 Tess Holliday "Never compare yourself with others and celebrate what makes you, you."

Piper chose to speak out and share her story because she was tired of being “a faceless, voiceless person”.

“I felt cocooned by something and wanted to break free. I am glad I did it because the thing I am most passionate about is normalising this in society, burns and scars, the more you see and hear of it in everyday life, the less of a taboo subject it comes.”

Confidence is something she has amassed since her recovery: “Everything [physically] is really well documented, that was the point of the book, my psychological recovery is on-going,” she explains. Things which have helped Piper recover psychologically include exercise and the help of loved ones.

“It is recognising that I can’t do things alone: relying on and confiding in people, letting people in and not seeing that as a failure. Reaching out to someone doesn’t mean you cannot do this.”

Since the documentary which propelled her to household name-status, Katie: My Beautiful Face, Piper has successfully carved a career for herself, fronting numerous TV series, modelling and designing baby accessories after having her daughter Belle. She has also established her foundation which supports and mentors people with scars and disfigurements. She says for a person with a disfigurement a different approach is needed to restore confidence.

“You can’t just tell someone that has come out of a coma: ‘Believe in yourself, be confident’ it is kind of patronising. Actually, there is a big thing for allowing yourself to be depressed or not coping and recognising that is normal and real life.

“There is so much on Instagram with positive quotes and about being positive, we have to be careful about not making people who are not positive feel like they are failing or not coping. That is ok, who wants to walk around like a robot, constantly repeating affirmations?”

Piper is of the view that no one is exempt from finding confidence, it is something everyone can access: “It is not an exclusive club. It is not a quality that only some people are blessed with. Don’t look at people and envy them and think: ‘I wish I had some of her confidence’. Everyone has it, you just have to bring it out, develop it, trust it and go with it.”

For Piper, recapturing the confidence she had prior to the attack (“I was really confident, I was going out, clubbing, leading a selfish, carefree young person’s life in London”) was something she achieved at her own pace, a message she is keen to pass on to others.

(Ray Burmiston )

“I didn’t come out of hospital trying to be as confident as Obama the next week,” the 33-year-old says laughing. “Set yourself achievable goals so that you are always experiencing success. Do not set yourself unachievable things and make yourself feel like a constant failure. You have got to be realistic. Life is all about striving to be best you can be, not a celebrity you have never met or an unrealistic image in your mind; you are being your own worst enemy doing that.”

And the main thing that has helped Piper regain her confidence after everything she has been through: Self-acceptance of “yourself and your situation”.

“Accepting the things that you cannot change and letting go of them and putting your energies into the ones you can change,” she summarises.

Confidence: The Secret by Katie Piper is out now, £12.99, Quercus.