In Last Jobs Report Of Obama's Presidency, U.S. Adds 156,000 Jobs And Unemployment Rate Ticks To 4.7%
In Last Jobs Report Of Obama's Presidency, U.S. Adds 156,000 Jobs And Unemployment Rate Ticks To 4.7%
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Under President Barack Obama, total employment has grown by more than 8%. (Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg) The last jobs report of Barack Obama's presidency was neither a whopping surprise nor a stunning disappointment. The headline number came in softer than expected, but was good enough to mark the 75th consecutive month of job growth. Economists were projecting 178,000 jobs added in December and for the unemployment rate to tick up to 4.7%. Wages, which throughout the economic recovery have been among the weakest parts of the employment snapshot, proved to be a highlight in the December report: the BLS reported that average hourly earnings for all employees on private non-farm payrolls increased by 10 cents to $26.00. Over the course of 2016, wages grew 2.9%. "Real wages have grown faster over the current business cycle than in any since the early 1970's," Jason Furman, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, said Friday in a blog post touting the Obama administration's record on employment. "Since 2010, the United States has put more people back to work than all other G-7 economies combined." The labor force participation rate -- the While 2016's 2.2 million jobs added marks the most sluggish year for job growth since 2012, economists say that this is to be expected when the year in question is the eighth year of an economic recovery. "Once you get in the eighth year, you start to see tightening labor markets. It would be surprising, to say the least, to have job growth accelerate," It's a tightening labor market, to be sure, but that doesn't mean it's at full capacity. Berson and other economic observers note that that the 4.5% difference between the headline unemployment rate and the U-6 rate shows there is still room for improvement. "The lowest [difference] we’ve ever seen is 2.9%. That was in 2000. Today we’re at 4.5%, but at the peak it was 7.4%. It’s come down a lot," Berson said. "And what it says is the labor market may not be completely back to normal. Over the course of 2017, we will see the difference between U-6 and [the headline figure] falling back in that more normal range of between three and four percentage points." Mark Hamrick, Bankrate.com’s senior economic analyst agrees that the U-6 figure indicates slack in the labor market, and said the challenge that lays before the next administration is to put people who've been discouraged from looking for a job back to work. "One of the reasons why anxiety still exists is the high level of disruption that’s occurring in economy. A lot of industries and technologies are in transition," Hamrick said in a phone interview Friday morning. He pointed to the 14,700 net additions in transportation and warehousing jobs, which he believes reflects growth in online shopping. "When we see Macy's and Sear’s Holdings closing stores , that’s causing disruption in workers' lives -- but that reflects disruption that consumers are causing because they're opting for more online sales than brick and mortar," he said. "This is the crown and the cross of the economy. The crown is technological innovation and the cross is disruption it causes in people’s lives." Hamrick and Berson agree that one solution to two of the problems within the American labor market -- the divergence between the unemployment rate and U-6 rate, and the rate of innovation and the rate of employment -- is more job training. Berson said. As it does every month, the newest employment report also provided revisions to figures released in prior months. October's job gains were revised from an increase of 142,000 to 135,000 (the original number was 161,000 ), and November's figure was revised up from 178,000 to 204,000 jobs added. Over the past three months, job gains have averaged 165,000. Over the course of 2016 as a whole, job gains averaged 180,000.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The last jobs report of Barack Obama's presidency was neither a whopping surprise nor a stunning disappointment. The headline number came in softer than expected, but was good enough to mark the 75th consecutive month of job growth.

Employers in the U.S. added 156,000 non-farm jobs in December, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday. The unemployment rate inched up to 4.7%, from 4.6%. Economists were projecting 178,000 jobs added in December and for the unemployment rate to tick up to 4.7%.

Friday's report brings 2016's net employment gain to 2.2 million. In 2015, the U.S. added 2.7 million jobs.

Wages, which throughout the economic recovery have been among the weakest parts of the employment snapshot, proved to be a highlight in the December report: the BLS reported that average hourly earnings for all employees on private non-farm payrolls increased by 10 cents to $26.00. Over the course of 2016, wages grew 2.9%.

"Real wages have grown faster over the current business cycle than in any since the early 1970's," Jason Furman, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, said Friday in a blog post touting the Obama administration's record on employment. "Since 2010, the United States has put more people back to work than all other G-7 economies combined."

The labor force participation rate -- the the percent of adults that are over 16 and actively working or looking for work -- remained unchanged at 62.7%. The so-called "U-6" employment figure, which is the rate of total unemployed plus those who are marginally attached to the labor force and those who are part time for economic reasons, ticked down to 9.2% from 9.3% in November and 9.9% one year ago.

While 2016's 2.2 million jobs added marks the most sluggish year for job growth since 2012, economists say that this is to be expected when the year in question is the eighth year of an economic recovery.

"Once you get in the eighth year, you start to see tightening labor markets. It would be surprising, to say the least, to have job growth accelerate," David Berson, chief economist at Nationwide, said in a phone interview Friday.

It's a tightening labor market, to be sure, but that doesn't mean it's at full capacity. Berson and other economic observers note that that the 4.5% difference between the headline unemployment rate and the U-6 rate shows there is still room for improvement.

"The lowest [difference] we’ve ever seen is 2.9%. That was in 2000. Today we’re at 4.5%, but at the peak it was 7.4%. It’s come down a lot," Berson said. "And what it says is the labor market may not be completely back to normal. Over the course of 2017, we will see the difference between U-6 and [the headline figure] falling back in that more normal range of between three and four percentage points."

Mark Hamrick, Bankrate.com’s senior economic analyst agrees that the U-6 figure indicates slack in the labor market, and said the challenge that lays before the next administration is to put people who've been discouraged from looking for a job back to work.

"One of the reasons why anxiety still exists is the high level of disruption that’s occurring in economy. A lot of industries and technologies are in transition," Hamrick said in a phone interview Friday morning. He pointed to the 14,700 net additions in transportation and warehousing jobs, which he believes reflects growth in online shopping.

"When we see Macy's and Sear’s Holdings closing stores, that’s causing disruption in workers' lives -- but that reflects disruption that consumers are causing because they're opting for more online sales than brick and mortar," he said. "This is the crown and the cross of the economy. The crown is technological innovation and the cross is disruption it causes in people’s lives."

Hamrick and Berson agree that one solution to two of the problems within the American labor market -- the divergence between the unemployment rate and U-6 rate, and the rate of innovation and the rate of employment -- is more job training.

"There are people whose skills don’t necessarily match the demand of employers right now. And that’s a big long term problem," Berson said.

As it does every month, the newest employment report also provided revisions to figures released in prior months. October's job gains were revised from an increase of 142,000 to 135,000 (the original number was 161,000), and November's figure was revised up from 178,000 to 204,000 jobs added. Over the past three months, job gains have averaged 165,000. Over the course of 2016 as a whole, job gains averaged 180,000.