Wiz Khalifa and Former Manager Benjy Grinberg Settle Lawsuits
Wiz Khalifa and Former Manager Benjy Grinberg Settle Lawsuits
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Wiz Khalifa and Former Manager Benjy Grinberg Settle Lawsuits  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Wiz Khalifa and Rostrum Records founder , the rapper's former manager, have resolved their lawsuits against each. According to a statement provided to , "all disputes" have been resolved following a joint settlement agreement. "This agreement includes the dismissal of lawsuits that each party had previously filed against each other earlier this year," the statement reads. "Both parties are pleased with the outcome and look forward to putting this matter behind them." Financial details of the joint settlement were not disclosed. On May 31 of last year, the Pittsburgh artist filed a $1 million lawsuit against Grinberg and Rostrum, alleging that the parties had profited from "virtually every aspect" of his professional life through a 360 deal signed in 2005 when he was a teenager. Khalifa's suit alleged that Grinberg and Rostrum entered into deals with Warner Bros. Records and Atlantic Records for his recordings. Grinberg and Rostrum followed with their own lawsuit a month later, seeking "millions of dollars in unpaid" royalties and earnings from touring and merchandising. Grinberg said his former client's allegations were the "complete opposite of our actions and the antithesis of what Rostrum Records and I stand for."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Wiz Khalifa and Rostrum Records founder Benjy Grinberg, the rapper's former manager, have resolved their lawsuits against each. According to a statement provided to Billboard, "all disputes" have been resolved following a joint settlement agreement.

"This agreement includes the dismissal of lawsuits that each party had previously filed against each other earlier this year," the statement reads. "Both parties are pleased with the outcome and look forward to putting this matter behind them."

Financial details of the joint settlement were not disclosed.

On May 31 of last year, the Pittsburgh artist filed a $1 million lawsuit against Grinberg and Rostrum, alleging that the parties had profited from "virtually every aspect" of his professional life through a 360 deal signed in 2005 when he was a teenager. Khalifa's suit alleged that Grinberg and Rostrum entered into deals with Warner Bros. Records and Atlantic Records for his recordings.

Grinberg and Rostrum followed with their own lawsuit a month later, seeking "millions of dollars in unpaid" royalties and earnings from touring and merchandising. Grinberg said his former client's allegations were the "complete opposite of our actions and the antithesis of what Rostrum Records and I stand for."