Workout Wear And Athleisure Style: 7 Ways To Workout In Style This Season
7 Ways To Workout In Style This Season
1. There's nothing better than mixing trends this season, case in point—slogan with athleisure. Pro-tip: If you're going glamping, compliment her nerdy slogan top with a chill sweatshirt 2. Colour blocking is one of the biggest athleisure trends this season 3. Go full monochrome with the Special Edition Gunmetal Fitbit Charge 2 and wear it with a matchy-matchy tracksuit 4. 5. 6. Whoever said white trainers are over should think again. Not only are they an all-time wardrobe classic, it’s pretty safe to wear them with anything.

1. There's nothing better than mixing trends this season, case in point—slogan with athleisure. Pro-tip: If you're going glamping, compliment her nerdy slogan top with a chill sweatshirt

Rohman Wears Fitbit Charge 2, Sweatshirt And Joggers, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com; Hanasa Wears Fitbit Flex 2, Top And Leggings, Forever 21

2. Colour blocking is one of the biggest athleisure trends this season

Hanasa Wears Fitbit Flex 2; Top And Joggers, Forever 21;

3. Go full monochrome with the Special Edition Gunmetal Fitbit Charge 2 and wear it with a matchy-matchy tracksuit

Rohman Wears Fitbit Charge 2, Sweatshirt And Joggers, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com;

4. Your workout gear this season should include the new Fitbit Charge 2 in black, a slogan top in vibrant red (for her), and an all-black tracksuit covered in slogans (for him)

Rohman Wears Fitbit Charge 2, Sweatshirt And Joggers, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com; Hanasa Wears Fitbit Charge 2; Slogan Top, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com

5. Mustard plus military green is such a winning combo! 2017 is all about colour blocked athleisure ensembles that reflect your new and energised state of mind.

Rohman Wears Fitbit Charge 2, Sweatshirt And Joggers, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com; Hanasa Wears Fitbit Flex 2; Slogan Top, Fighting Fame At Koovs.Com

6. Whoever said white trainers are over should think again. Not only are they an all-time wardrobe classic, it’s pretty safe to wear them with anything.

Rohman Wears Fitbit Charge 2, Sneakers, Models Own

Photographer: Anubhav Sood

Styling: Santu Misra

Art Director: Samiksha Sharma

Make-up and Hair: Shallu Chandla

Models: Rohman Shawl, Himanshu S., Hanansha at Anokhi Models