Your lazy self can now order takeout by just yelling at Alexa
Your lazy self can now order takeout by just yelling at Alexa
Amazon just took another step to make sure you never need anyone but Alexa again. Amazon Restaurants, the tech giant's delivery service, just added voice ordering — which means you can now order takeout by yelling at Alexa. The service is only available for Prime members, since you use Prime to order from Amazon Restaurants. It also only works for reordering. Alexa will remember past meals from your order history and list them when you ask for a specific restaurant or type of food. “Customers now have a hands-free, hassle-free way to reorder any meal from Amazon Restaurants using their voice to get dinner on the table,” Amazon Restaurants GM Gus Lopez said in a statement . “We are excited to leverage the innovative Alexa technology and give Prime members another easy way for Amazon Restaurants to take care of dinnertime with no menu markups and free delivery in one hour or less.” Your move, Uber Eats. BONUS: This levitating speaker will take your music to new heights

Amazon just took another step to make sure you never need anyone but Alexa again.

Amazon Restaurants, the tech giant's delivery service, just added voice ordering — which means you can now order takeout by yelling at Alexa.

The service is only available for Prime members, since you use Prime to order from Amazon Restaurants.

It also only works for reordering. Alexa will remember past meals from your order history and list them when you ask for a specific restaurant or type of food.

“Customers now have a hands-free, hassle-free way to reorder any meal from Amazon Restaurants using their voice to get dinner on the table,” Amazon Restaurants GM Gus Lopez said in a statement. “We are excited to leverage the innovative Alexa technology and give Prime members another easy way for Amazon Restaurants to take care of dinnertime with no menu markups and free delivery in one hour or less.”

Your move, Uber Eats.