VP Joe Biden on Trump: 'Grow Up Donald. You're President'

VP Joe Biden on Trump: 'Grow Up Donald. You're President' // // // // Vice President Joe Biden has a message for President-elect Donald Trump and his use of Twitter: "Grow up!" In an interview with PBS NewsHour , Biden criticized Trump's attacks on the U.S. intelligence community and his grasp of health care policy. "Grow up Donald. Grow up. Time to be an adult. You're president. You gotta do something. Show us what you have. You're going to propose the legislation. We're going to debate it. Let the public decide. Let them vote in Congress. Let's see what happens," Biden said. Fox News contributors Mercedes Schlapp and Juan Williams joined "America's Newsroom" Friday to discuss Biden's remarks and Trump's use of Twitter. Schlapp said Trump feels most comfortable tweeting in order to make announcements and that this is a transparent effort by Trump to ensure the public hears from him. "I think we have to understand that presidents in history have used the latest technology to be able to send a direct message to the American people as well as to go around the filter of the media," Schlapp said. "So for Donald Trump, Twitter has worked." While Williams said he agreed, he said he is not fond of Trump's bullying on the platform, for example calling Sen. Chuch Schumer "head clown." The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017 ...do the typical political thing and BLAME. The fact is ObamaCare was a lie from the beginning."Keep you doctor, keep your plan!" It is.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017 ...time for Republicans & Democrats to get together and come up with a healthcare plan that really works - much less expensive & FAR BETTER! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017 "It's only 140 characters," Williams said. "Can you really make policy as the American president in 140 characters? Are you going to be at times misunderstood? Are you gonna be taken as bullying, as acting childish? Tell us what you think of Biden's comments and Trump's tweets in the comments section.

Judge Jeanine: Chicago Facebook Live Video Attackers 'Have No Remorse'

Trump, Schwarzenegger Battle Over 'New Celebrity Apprentice' Ratings

Liberty University to Open Gun Range on Campus

Vice President Joe Biden has a message for President-elect Donald Trump and his use of Twitter: "Grow up!"

In an interview with PBS NewsHour, Biden criticized Trump's attacks on the U.S. intelligence community and his grasp of health care policy.

"Grow up Donald. Grow up. Time to be an adult. You're president. You gotta do something. Show us what you have. You're going to propose the legislation. We're going to debate it. Let the public decide. Let them vote in Congress. Let's see what happens," Biden said.

Fox News contributors Mercedes Schlapp and Juan Williams joined "America's Newsroom" Friday to discuss Biden's remarks and Trump's use of Twitter.

Schlapp said Trump feels most comfortable tweeting in order to make announcements and that this is a transparent effort by Trump to ensure the public hears from him.

"I think we have to understand that presidents in history have used the latest technology to be able to send a direct message to the American people as well as to go around the filter of the media," Schlapp said. "So for Donald Trump, Twitter has worked."

While Williams said he agreed, he said he is not fond of Trump's bullying on the platform, for example calling Sen. Chuch Schumer "head clown."

The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

...do the typical political thing and BLAME. The fact is ObamaCare was a lie from the beginning."Keep you doctor, keep your plan!" It is.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

...time for Republicans & Democrats to get together and come up with a healthcare plan that really works - much less expensive & FAR BETTER! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

"It's only 140 characters," Williams said. "Can you really make policy as the American president in 140 characters? Are you going to be at times misunderstood? Are you gonna be taken as bullying, as acting childish?

Tell us what you think of Biden's comments and Trump's tweets in the comments section.

Check out the latest updates from Fox News Channel on the Trump transition!

Report: Obama to Transfer 18 More Gitmo Detainees Before Trump Takes Office

MA Sheriff Offers County's Inmates to Help Build Trump's Mexico Border Wall

Cruz: 'History Is Going to Record Obama & Kerry as Relentless Enemies of Israel'