Joe Biden Tells Donald Trump To 'Grow Up' in New Video Interview
Joe Biden Tells Donald Trump To 'Grow Up' in New Video Interview
In a interview that aired on Thursday, Joe Biden had some advice for PEOTUS Donald Trump that was perhaps pretty obvious in the big picture. Put simply, Biden told Trump that it was time to "grow up" and "be an adult." Biden's answer came in response to questions about Trump's tweeting , specifically ones where he referred to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as "the head clown": The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. And also this one about the perceived lack of smoothness during transitions between his administration and Obama's: Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks.Thought it was going to be a smooth transition - NOT! "Grow up, Donald. Grow up. Time to be an adult," Biden said . "You're president. You've got to do something. Show us what you have. You're going to propose legislation. We're going to get to debate it. Let the public decide. Let them vote in Congress. Let's see what happens. It's going to be much clearer what he's for and against, and what we're for and against, now that it's going to get down to actually discussing in detail these issues that affect people's lives." On Friday morning Trump demonstrated that he indeed can be mature, by tweeting about how he got better ratings than Arnold did during his debut episode as the head honcho on Wow, the ratings are in and Arnold Schwarzenegger got "swamped" (or destroyed) by comparison to the ratings machine, DJT. So much for.... being a movie star-and that was season 1 compared to season 14. Now compare him to my season 1. But who cares, he supported Kasich & Hillary Really puts your mind at ease.

In a PBS NewsHour interview that aired on Thursday, Joe Biden had some advice for PEOTUS Donald Trump that was perhaps pretty obvious in the big picture. Put simply, Biden told Trump that it was time to "grow up" and "be an adult."

Biden's answer came in response to questions about Trump's tweeting, specifically ones where he referred to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as "the head clown":

The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in. Instead of working to fix it, they.. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017

And also this one about the perceived lack of smoothness during transitions between his administration and Obama's:

Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks.Thought it was going to be a smooth transition - NOT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 28, 2016

"Grow up, Donald. Grow up. Time to be an adult," Biden said. "You're president. You've got to do something. Show us what you have. You're going to propose legislation. We're going to get to debate it. Let the public decide. Let them vote in Congress. Let's see what happens. It's going to be much clearer what he's for and against, and what we're for and against, now that it's going to get down to actually discussing in detail these issues that affect people's lives."

On Friday morning Trump demonstrated that he indeed can be mature, by tweeting about how he got better ratings than Arnold did during his debut episode as the head honcho on The Celebrity Apprentice:

Wow, the ratings are in and Arnold Schwarzenegger got "swamped" (or destroyed) by comparison to the ratings machine, DJT. So much for.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2017

being a movie star-and that was season 1 compared to season 14. Now compare him to my season 1. But who cares, he supported Kasich & Hillary — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2017

Really puts your mind at ease.