Your car wants to say hello. And that’s only the start.

Toyota’s empathetic car of the future is there for you. You’ve had a frustrating day at work; it plays soft music and lowers the temperature. You’re lost in an unfamiliar neighborhood; it offers to take over the driving. You start to nod off at the wheel; it taps you on the shoulder and starts up a conversation. This unconventional interplay between the driver and automobile is central to concept cars that Honda and Toyota unveiled at the annual CES technology conference in Las Vegas this week . In the not-so-distant future, vehicles will not only be safer or more efficient. They will be our companion, watching our every move. These cars, which only exist today as partially functional concepts, will use powerful artificial intelligence systems to memorize and store information about every passengers’ likes and dislikes, how they speak, and the places they frequent, all to make decisions the car feels are in the riders’ interest. The auto industry’s pursuit of a hyper-personal experience comes as the very nature of automotive transportation is in flux. Many industry observers expect ride-sharing services will become more popular , with autonomous driving to follow. People may rely less on personal cars to get around, a prospect that is “going to change the business model of private car ownership dramatically,” said Karl Brauer, a Kelley Blue Book analyst. With the basic business of buying and selling cars potentially facing a major change in the decades ahead, information about drivers and passengers is likely to hold tremendous value for automakers. While this may also lead to greater convenience for motorists, it creates yet another platform where our most sensitive data could be susceptible to privacy infringement and security hacks. “Artificial intelligence and big data will make vehicles one of the most important windows into the habits of consumers next to their own phones and computers,” said Ed Hellwig, the executive editor at Edmunds.com. “Automakers will know more than they ever have about how their vehicles are used, which could lead to entirely new designs and features.” As with concept cars past, Toyota and Honda’s new vehicles could be seen as quixotic playthings for car heads and tech geeks. Concept cars are built to introduce bold ideas, practical and otherwise. But Robert Carter, Toyota’s senior vice president of automotive operations, told an audience at CES on Wednesday that components of its concept car will be tested on roads in Japan in the coming years. What’s more, nearly all of the concepts are rooted in technology already being honed today . Start-ups and legacy automakers alike are testing applications for artificial intelligence and big data inside cars, and connecting those systems with your phone, home appliances and the other Internet-enabled devices that permeate our daily lives. “Technology moves very slow until suddenly it doesn’t,” said Shawn DuBravac, a futurist and chief economist at the Consumer Technology Association. “It’s almost like boiling water. It takes a long time to heat up, then suddenly, instantly, it’s boiling.” [ Drivers who approach Toyota’s Concept-i car will see “hello” projected on the car door, a greeting from Yui, an artificial intelligence bot that designers call “the person who rides shotgun with you.” Inside, the car will collect a trove of real-time data, such as pupil dilation, perspiration rate and vocal tone, to assess the driver’s emotional state and alter the car to better fit one’s mood. Once Yui learns preferences for music, temperature, seat position and other features, it will automatically adjust settings before the driver even climbs in. Yui will also scroll through social media channels to create “serendipitous” moments, such as recognizing that friends have checked into a local restaurant and suggesting a stop there to grab a bite as well. “It’s all subtle stuff but the ultimate goal is to not have you aware that a lot of this stuff is happening. Suddenly when you’re done you have had a good experience,” said William Chergosky, one of the car’s designers. Honda revealed its own concept car , called the NeuV, at CES on Thursday. The artificial intelligence assistant listens to the driver’s phone conversations, automatically updating their calendar and route if plans change. If the driver is running late for a meeting, the car finds the fastest route. When there is time to spare, it might suggest stopping for coffee. “The whole philosophy behind it is to create a much more emotional, human connection,” said Nick Renner, the NeuV project leader. The auto industry may be taking its cues from phone companies. Smartphones have evolved into personal lifelines that facilitate human interactions, make people’s lives more convenient, and store valuable information. That cars will one day have that same potential seems only natural considering the amount of time people spend inside them each day. [ The reimagining of cars and how we interact with them started from the inside out, a break from the past when a sleek exterior and under-the-hood innovations took precedent, Chergosky said. “For many decades, car design was really focused on the mechanics of the car and on the manufacture,” said Wendy Ju, executive director at Stanford’s Center for Design Research. “In many ways, the in-car user experience was an afterthought; it needed to be good enough to be safe, or flashy enough to be featured, but the interaction was shallow.” In the near future, what your car learns about you could provide car companies lucrative new opportunities. A September 2016 report from consulting firm McKinsey estimates that carmakers could reap between $450 billion and $750 billion in revenue by 2030 from using car-generated data to develop new products and services. While much of that conversation is speculative, analysts say it’s not hard to imagine targeted advertising inside the car, or apps that allow people to make dinner reservations, buy merchandise or play games. That’s especially true as cars become more autonomous and occupants devote less attention to the vehicle’s actual operation. Again, consumers shouldn’t expect to find all of these technologies as advertised on showroom floors anytime soon, or perhaps ever. Toyota envisions its concept car being realized by 2030, for example. Instead, they indicate where automakers see consumer needs and expectations moving in the coming decades. “Like most concept cars, the vehicles at CES are eye-catching platforms for the behind-the-scenes technology that is still years away,” Hellwig said. But some of the technology isn’t so far off. Ford announced Wednesday that its drivers who use Amazon Echo will be able to tell the bot’s voice assistant, Alexa, to start their car remotely. (Amazon.com founder Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post.) Safety features that alert drivers when they’re drifting lanes or at risk of a collision can be found in car models, from Teslas to Subarus, on showroom floors today. The Department of Transportation proposed rules last month that require all new cars on the road to digitally “speak” to one another by 2020 . This “vehicle-to-vehicle communication” allows cars to transmit data back and forth so that each is aware when the other vehicle is rounding the corner, about to run a red light or might stomp on the brakes. “Clearly the industry is moving in that direction . . . I don’t think that’s a question at all,” said Jeff Schuster, an analyst at LMC Automotive. “I just think it’s a question of how quickly it becomes mainstream and in the mass market.” The collection of so much data raises privacy and security concerns that may be nascent today, but that will only become more prominent as the technology becomes more common in automobiles. In 2014, the two leading associations of automotive manufacturers published privacy principles that state data should only be collected for “legitimate business purposes” and stored only as long as necessary. Car owners should also be made aware of what data is being collected, and be given the option to maintain some privacy, the principles state. “If automakers are careful about how they handle data, really leading with the uses that advance safety and advance convenience, I think people are going to embrace the use of data that are valuable to [automakers],” said Jules Polonetsky, chief executive at the Future of Privacy Forum.



The Concept-i from Toyota showcases what the company expects cars will look like in 2030. It was revealed on Wednesday at CES in Las Vegas. (Courtesy of Toyota)

Toyota’s empathetic car of the future is there for you. You’ve had a frustrating day at work; it plays soft music and lowers the temperature. You’re lost in an unfamiliar neighborhood; it offers to take over the driving. You start to nod off at the wheel; it taps you on the shoulder and starts up a conversation.

This unconventional interplay between the driver and automobile is central to concept cars that Honda and Toyota unveiled at the annual CES technology conference in Las Vegas this week. In the not-so-distant future, vehicles will not only be safer or more efficient. They will be our companion, watching our every move.

These cars, which only exist today as partially functional concepts, will use powerful artificial intelligence systems to memorize and store information about every passengers’ likes and dislikes, how they speak, and the places they frequent, all to make decisions the car feels are in the riders’ interest.

The auto industry’s pursuit of a hyper-personal experience comes as the very nature of automotive transportation is in flux. Many industry observers expect ride-sharing services will become more popular, with autonomous driving to follow. People may rely less on personal cars to get around, a prospect that is “going to change the business model of private car ownership dramatically,” said Karl Brauer, a Kelley Blue Book analyst.

With the basic business of buying and selling cars potentially facing a major change in the decades ahead, information about drivers and passengers is likely to hold tremendous value for automakers. While this may also lead to greater convenience for motorists, it creates yet another platform where our most sensitive data could be susceptible to privacy infringement and security hacks.

“Artificial intelligence and big data will make vehicles one of the most important windows into the habits of consumers next to their own phones and computers,” said Ed Hellwig, the executive editor at Edmunds.com. “Automakers will know more than they ever have about how their vehicles are used, which could lead to entirely new designs and features.”



The new Toyota Concept-i, designed to learn about its driver, is unveiled during a news conference at CES in Las Vegas on Jan. 4. (Rick Wilking/Reuters)

As with concept cars past, Toyota and Honda’s new vehicles could be seen as quixotic playthings for car heads and tech geeks. Concept cars are built to introduce bold ideas, practical and otherwise. But Robert Carter, Toyota’s senior vice president of automotive operations, told an audience at CES on Wednesday that components of its concept car will be tested on roads in Japan in the coming years.

What’s more, nearly all of the concepts are rooted in technology already being honed today. Start-ups and legacy automakers alike are testing applications for artificial intelligence and big data inside cars, and connecting those systems with your phone, home appliances and the other Internet-enabled devices that permeate our daily lives.

“Technology moves very slow until suddenly it doesn’t,” said Shawn DuBravac, a futurist and chief economist at the Consumer Technology Association. “It’s almost like boiling water. It takes a long time to heat up, then suddenly, instantly, it’s boiling.”

[At CES 2017, Faraday Future showed the car that could make or break it]

Drivers who approach Toyota’s Concept-i car will see “hello” projected on the car door, a greeting from Yui, an artificial intelligence bot that designers call “the person who rides shotgun with you.” Inside, the car will collect a trove of real-time data, such as pupil dilation, perspiration rate and vocal tone, to assess the driver’s emotional state and alter the car to better fit one’s mood. Once Yui learns preferences for music, temperature, seat position and other features, it will automatically adjust settings before the driver even climbs in.

Yui will also scroll through social media channels to create “serendipitous” moments, such as recognizing that friends have checked into a local restaurant and suggesting a stop there to grab a bite as well.

“It’s all subtle stuff but the ultimate goal is to not have you aware that a lot of this stuff is happening. Suddenly when you’re done you have had a good experience,” said William Chergosky, one of the car’s designers.



Honda will unveil the NeuV, a car equipped with artificial intelligence technology, at the International Consumer Electronics Show in January. (Courtesy of Honda)

Honda revealed its own concept car, called the NeuV, at CES on Thursday. The artificial intelligence assistant listens to the driver’s phone conversations, automatically updating their calendar and route if plans change. If the driver is running late for a meeting, the car finds the fastest route. When there is time to spare, it might suggest stopping for coffee.

“The whole philosophy behind it is to create a much more emotional, human connection,” said Nick Renner, the NeuV project leader.

The auto industry may be taking its cues from phone companies. Smartphones have evolved into personal lifelines that facilitate human interactions, make people’s lives more convenient, and store valuable information. That cars will one day have that same potential seems only natural considering the amount of time people spend inside them each day.

[This car promises to be fully electric and drive itself. Will that be enough?]

The reimagining of cars and how we interact with them started from the inside out, a break from the past when a sleek exterior and under-the-hood innovations took precedent, Chergosky said.

“For many decades, car design was really focused on the mechanics of the car and on the manufacture,” said Wendy Ju, executive director at Stanford’s Center for Design Research. “In many ways, the in-car user experience was an afterthought; it needed to be good enough to be safe, or flashy enough to be featured, but the interaction was shallow.”

In the near future, what your car learns about you could provide car companies lucrative new opportunities. A September 2016 report from consulting firm McKinsey estimates that carmakers could reap between $450 billion and $750 billion in revenue by 2030 from using car-generated data to develop new products and services.

While much of that conversation is speculative, analysts say it’s not hard to imagine targeted advertising inside the car, or apps that allow people to make dinner reservations, buy merchandise or play games. That’s especially true as cars become more autonomous and occupants devote less attention to the vehicle’s actual operation.



The Honda NeuV concept vehicle is displayed during CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center. (David McNew/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)

Again, consumers shouldn’t expect to find all of these technologies as advertised on showroom floors anytime soon, or perhaps ever. Toyota envisions its concept car being realized by 2030, for example. Instead, they indicate where automakers see consumer needs and expectations moving in the coming decades.

“Like most concept cars, the vehicles at CES are eye-catching platforms for the behind-the-scenes technology that is still years away,” Hellwig said.

But some of the technology isn’t so far off. Ford announced Wednesday that its drivers who use Amazon Echo will be able to tell the bot’s voice assistant, Alexa, to start their car remotely. (Amazon.com founder Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post.) Safety features that alert drivers when they’re drifting lanes or at risk of a collision can be found in car models, from Teslas to Subarus, on showroom floors today.

The Department of Transportation proposed rules last month that require all new cars on the road to digitally “speak” to one another by 2020. This “vehicle-to-vehicle communication” allows cars to transmit data back and forth so that each is aware when the other vehicle is rounding the corner, about to run a red light or might stomp on the brakes.

“Clearly the industry is moving in that direction . . . I don’t think that’s a question at all,” said Jeff Schuster, an analyst at LMC Automotive. “I just think it’s a question of how quickly it becomes mainstream and in the mass market.”

The collection of so much data raises privacy and security concerns that may be nascent today, but that will only become more prominent as the technology becomes more common in automobiles. In 2014, the two leading associations of automotive manufacturers published privacy principles that state data should only be collected for “legitimate business purposes” and stored only as long as necessary. Car owners should also be made aware of what data is being collected, and be given the option to maintain some privacy, the principles state.

“If automakers are careful about how they handle data, really leading with the uses that advance safety and advance convenience, I think people are going to embrace the use of data that are valuable to [automakers],” said Jules Polonetsky, chief executive at the Future of Privacy Forum.

1 of 53 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Here are 53 gadgets on display at the 2017 Consumer Electronics Show View Photos Robots and virtual-reality headsets are among the devices being showcased at the annual Las Vegas event. Caption Robots and virtual-reality headsets are among the devices being showcased at the annual Las Vegas event. Jan. 8, 2017 A robot developed by Taiwan engineers moves chess pieces on a board against an opponent. The robot has what developers call an “intelligent vision system,” which can see its environment and act with greater precision than its peers. Rob Lever/AFP via Getty Images Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

Read more from The Washington Post’s Innovations section.