Kim Kardashian Breaks Silence on Paris Robbery in New 'KUWTK' Teaser
Kim Kardashian Breaks Silence on Paris Robbery in New 'KUWTK' Teaser
Kim Kardashian is speaking out about the terrifying Paris robbery in the latest look at the new season of . Kardashian, speaking through tears to her family in the wake of the armed robbery at her Paris apartment last October, reveals she thought the attackers were going to shoot her. "They're gonna shoot me in the back," Kardashian recalls thinking at the time. "There's no way out. It makes me so upset to think about it." , which was met with conflicting reports on its production status in the months after the robbery, returns in March. The shooting date for the footage in this new teaser is unknown, though an apparent reference to husband Kanye West 's recent hospitalization may offer some insight. Kardashian was reportedly "bound and gagged" while being held at gunpoint inside her Paris apartment in October. Though the masked men ultimately left with Kardashian's "million-dollar jewelry" in tow, the building's concierge later told  that the suspects initially had a different plan . "They weren't there for jewels at first, they were there for money," Abdulrahman told . "He put the jewels in his [backpack] and he left the bag open, that is why he lost some jewels and the gold in the hotel." Following an extended leave of absence, Kardashian returned to social media this week with a series of new photos and behind-the-scenes family footage: family pic.twitter.com/C160vg1Mcn "We're so close," Kardashian says of her family's support in the teaser. "We feel each other's pain."

Kim Kardashian is speaking out about the terrifying Paris robbery in the latest look at the new season of Keeping Up With the Kardashians. Kardashian, speaking through tears to her family in the wake of the armed robbery at her Paris apartment last October, reveals she thought the attackers were going to shoot her.

"They're gonna shoot me in the back," Kardashian recalls thinking at the time. "There's no way out. It makes me so upset to think about it." Keeping Up With the Kardashians, which was met with conflicting reports on its production status in the months after the robbery, returns in March. The shooting date for the footage in this new teaser is unknown, though an apparent reference to husband Kanye West's recent hospitalization may offer some insight.

Kardashian was reportedly "bound and gagged" while being held at gunpoint inside her Paris apartment in October. Though the masked men ultimately left with Kardashian's "million-dollar jewelry" in tow, the building's concierge later told Entertainment Tonight that the suspects initially had a different plan. "They weren't there for jewels at first, they were there for money," Abdulrahman told ET. "He put the jewels in his [backpack] and he left the bag open, that is why he lost some jewels and the gold in the hotel."

Following an extended leave of absence, Kardashian returned to social media this week with a series of new photos and behind-the-scenes family footage:

"We're so close," Kardashian says of her family's support in the KUWTK teaser. "We feel each other's pain."