What Cole Swindell and 'The Bachelor' Have In Common
What Cole Swindell and 'The Bachelor' Have In Common
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance What Cole Swindell and 'The Bachelor' Have In Common  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Everyone has a secret past, especially the contestants of . Olivia Verschage , a fan of country singer Cole Swindell , noticed that the love interest in his 2016 music video for “Middle of a Memory” looked eerily identical to , the 31-year-old neonatal nurse competing for Bachelor love on this season of the ABC reality competition. Suspicious, Verschage did some investigating of her own, tweeted at Swindell: "Danielle on the @BachelorABC is definitely the girl in Middle of a Memory. Confirm? @coleswindell" Swindell's response? "For Sure." Overwhelmed by the love for this video -- What an incredible group of people to work with. @flyhifilms @blackmike2309 @flyhi_ry Anna, I can't say enough wonderful things about you guys and your team ---- !!!! @paulaturner1 had my hair and make up on POINT ----@cswinde2 for letting me be a part of it! @amaxtalent I love y'all so hard #amaxgirlsruntheworld #middleofamemory A video posted by Danielle Maltby (@dmmaltby) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Everyone has a secret past, especially the contestants of The Bachelor.

Olivia Verschage, a fan of country singer Cole Swindell, noticed that the love interest in his 2016 music video for “Middle of a Memory” looked eerily identical to Danielle M., the 31-year-old neonatal nurse competing for Bachelor Nick Viall's love on this season of the ABC reality competition.

Suspicious, Verschage did some investigating of her own, tweeted at Swindell: "Danielle on the @BachelorABC is definitely the girl in Middle of a Memory. Confirm? @coleswindell" Swindell's response? "For Sure."