How a 23-year-old kid suddenly became the Oakland Raiders' best shot at a championship
How a 23-year-old kid suddenly became the Oakland Raiders' best shot at a championship
For a moment, the Raiders had it all. Their best record in 16 years, a ticket to the postseason, a homegrown quarterback having an MVP-calibre season. Oakland's 2016 season was surreal for a franchise that had only seen one Super Bowl in the past three decades. SEE ALSO: Odell Beckham Jr. posed as a Lyft driver and it took passengers forever to notice In theory, Saturday's wild card playoff game against Texas should be cause for celebration, seeing as Oakland hadn't seen the postseason since 2002. Instead, Oakland's storybook season hangs in the balance. A season-ending injury to quarterback Derek Carr — and an injury to the guy who replaced him —  leaves the Raiders offense in the hands of a 23-year-old kid named Connor Cook, Oakland's third-string quarterback, who is suddenly the NFL's most intriguing figure as the path to the Super Bowl begins. A story decades in the making Once upon a time, Oakland was a perennial playoff contender, reaching the postseason 15 times — including three Super Bowl championships — between 1965-1985. Success has been elusive since then, but that hasn't stopped Raider Nation, the raucous, ultra passionate, face-painted fanbase of the Oakland Raiders. They live and die with the team, and have been waiting for something to cheer about. Raider Nation. Image:   Doug Pensinger/Getty Images Oakland's best record since 2000 The years of suffering made 2016 even sweeter for Raider Nation. Even as franchise relocation rumors swirled, the Raiders just kept winning, finishing at 12-4, tied for the second best record in the AFC. Quarterback Derek Carr was at the center of it all. A second round pick in the 2014 NFL draft, Carr progressed year after year, finally putting up elite numbers in 2016, when he passed for 28 touchdowns and threw only six picks. Carr's leadership and grit earned him plenty of respect, too, both from teammates and Raider Nation. Carr, another Pro Bowl season from wide receiver Amari Cooper, the resurgence of Michael Crabtree and a potent offensive line turned the Raiders into one of the league's best teams. Carr was set to be a person of extreme interest when the playoffs began. Then he broke his leg in Week 16. He was replaced by Matt McGloin, who promptly injured his shoulder in the Which leads us to this weekend, and the 23-year-old kid who is suddenly Oakland's only shot at a championship. From third string to playoff starter Connor Cook was never supposed to be here. From dab-er to starter. Image:  Andy Lyons/Getty Images After Cook led Michigan State to two Big 10 Conference Championships and a Rose Bowl win, Oakland selected the Ohio native No. 100 overall in the 2016 NFL draft. He's talented, no doubt, but with the lack of experience — coupled with questions about Cook's character and maturity — expectations are low, particularly considering he'll face Houston, which boasts the league's No.1 defense . The Raiders have faith in Cook, who threw a touchdown and interception in his 21 passing attempts this year. “His moment’s here,” running back Jalen Richard said, per “I feel like he’s ready for it and we have all the confidence in him.” But let's be real — they don't have a choice. Cook is Oakland's only option, even if he is a far cry from beloved quarterback Derrick Carr. Connor Cook has never started an NFL game. Image:  Justin Edmonds/Getty Images So now, the baby-faced quarterback with a couple hours of NFL experience will make his first career start in the playoffs — something that's never been done before — against the league's best defense, in the Raiders' first playoff game since 2002. No pressure, sir. Welcome to the NFL .

For a moment, the Raiders had it all.

Their best record in 16 years, a ticket to the postseason, a homegrown quarterback having an MVP-calibre season. Oakland's 2016 season was surreal for a franchise that had only seen one Super Bowl in the past three decades.

In theory, Saturday's wild card playoff game against Texas should be cause for celebration, seeing as Oakland hadn't seen the postseason since 2002.

Instead, Oakland's storybook season hangs in the balance.

A season-ending injury to quarterback Derek Carr — and an injury to the guy who replaced him — leaves the Raiders offense in the hands of a 23-year-old kid named Connor Cook, Oakland's third-string quarterback, who is suddenly the NFL's most intriguing figure as the path to the Super Bowl begins.

A story decades in the making

Once upon a time, Oakland was a perennial playoff contender, reaching the postseason 15 times — including three Super Bowl championships — between 1965-1985. Success has been elusive since then, but that hasn't stopped Raider Nation, the raucous, ultra passionate, face-painted fanbase of the Oakland Raiders.

They live and die with the team, and have been waiting for something to cheer about.

Raider Nation. Image: Doug Pensinger/Getty Images

Oakland's best record since 2000

The years of suffering made 2016 even sweeter for Raider Nation.

Even as franchise relocation rumors swirled, the Raiders just kept winning, finishing at 12-4, tied for the second best record in the AFC.

Quarterback Derek Carr was at the center of it all.

A second round pick in the 2014 NFL draft, Carr progressed year after year, finally putting up elite numbers in 2016, when he passed for 28 touchdowns and threw only six picks. Carr's leadership and grit earned him plenty of respect, too, both from teammates and Raider Nation.

Carr, another Pro Bowl season from wide receiver Amari Cooper, the resurgence of Michael Crabtree and a potent offensive line turned the Raiders into one of the league's best teams.

Carr was set to be a person of extreme interest when the playoffs began. Then he broke his leg in Week 16. He was replaced by Matt McGloin, who promptly injured his shoulder in the same game.

Which leads us to this weekend, and the 23-year-old kid who is suddenly Oakland's best only shot at a championship.

From third string to playoff starter

Connor Cook was never supposed to be here.

From dab-er to starter. Image: Andy Lyons/Getty Images

After Cook led Michigan State to two Big 10 Conference Championships and a Rose Bowl win, Oakland selected the Ohio native No. 100 overall in the 2016 NFL draft.

He's talented, no doubt, but with the lack of experience — coupled with questions about Cook's character and maturity — expectations are low, particularly considering he'll face Houston, which boasts the league's No.1 defense.

The Raiders have faith in Cook, who threw a touchdown and interception in his 21 passing attempts this year.

“His moment’s here,” running back Jalen Richard said, per The Mercury News. “I feel like he’s ready for it and we have all the confidence in him.”

But let's be real — they don't have a choice. Cook is Oakland's only option, even if he is a far cry from beloved quarterback Derrick Carr.

Connor Cook has never started an NFL game. Image: Justin Edmonds/Getty Images

So now, the baby-faced quarterback with a couple hours of NFL experience will make his first career start in the playoffs — something that's never been done before — against the league's best defense, in the Raiders' first playoff game since 2002.

No pressure, sir. Welcome to the NFL.