Startup's pillow pad aims keep your head cool while you sleep
Startup's pillow pad aims keep your head cool while you sleep
LAS VEGAS — Forget waking in the middle of the night to flip your pillow. Moona, a French startup, says its smart pillow pad will keep sleepers cool all night, thanks to a closed circuit system that pumps water throughout the pad. The startup showed its pad at the 2017 International CES. SEE ALSO: The best tech of CES 2017 Image:  Moona Moona connects to a small, design-friendly temperature-regulating device that cools water to 64 degrees at most before pumping it through to the pad. The water flows through a closed circuit that they say keeps the temperature relatively constant. The device can also be programmed to encourage waking at a specified time. As the reports , some studies have indicated that a cool room temperature may lead to sleepiness, while warmth might increase wakefulness. So, the team at Moona added a built-in motion sensor that they say monitors your head's movements in the night. If it senses a sleeper might be close to waking before his or her pre-determined wake-up time, it'll send a fresh rush of cool water to the pad, ostensibly to encourage sleepiness. Just before your pre-set wake-up time, the device will send a rush of warm water through the pad to gently encourage waking. The whole thing connects to a smartphone that tracks sleeping patterns. Though the claim that a smart pillow pad can sense when you're close to waking seems a bit dubious, the real appeal here is the constant cooling sensation. Moona is a cooler pillow pad, both literally and aesthetically. The Moona will begin a soft launch in April for $149.00. After the launch period, the retail price will be between $249.00 and $299.00. BONUS: Faraday Future just unveiled a super fast Tesla competitor — here's what it looks like

LAS VEGAS — Forget waking in the middle of the night to flip your pillow.

Moona, a French startup, says its smart pillow pad will keep sleepers cool all night, thanks to a closed circuit system that pumps water throughout the pad. The startup showed its pad at the 2017 International CES.

SEE ALSO: The best tech of CES 2017

Image: Moona

Moona connects to a small, design-friendly temperature-regulating device that cools water to 64 degrees at most before pumping it through to the pad. The water flows through a closed circuit that they say keeps the temperature relatively constant. The device can also be programmed to encourage waking at a specified time.

As the Wall Street Journal reports, some studies have indicated that a cool room temperature may lead to sleepiness, while warmth might increase wakefulness.

So, the team at Moona added a built-in motion sensor that they say monitors your head's movements in the night. If it senses a sleeper might be close to waking before his or her pre-determined wake-up time, it'll send a fresh rush of cool water to the pad, ostensibly to encourage sleepiness. Just before your pre-set wake-up time, the device will send a rush of warm water through the pad to gently encourage waking. The whole thing connects to a smartphone that tracks sleeping patterns.

Though the claim that a smart pillow pad can really sense when you're close to waking seems a bit dubious, the real appeal here is the constant cooling sensation. Moona is a cooler pillow pad, both literally and aesthetically.

The Moona will begin a soft launch in April for $149.00. After the launch period, the retail price will be between $249.00 and $299.00.