Access To Schools Is One Of The Biggest Hindrances To Thousands Getting Education, Here Is How An NGO Wants To Change It
This NGO Is Working To Help All Children In India Get Access To Schools
Access To Schools Is One Of The Biggest Hindrances To Thousands Getting Education, Here Is How An NGO Wants To Change It According to a joint study by Unesco Institute for Statistics and the Global Education Monitoring Report, 47 million adolescents in India have not progressed to upper secondary school, the highest in the world. One of the biggest reasons behind the high number of dropouts is accessibility to schools. While a number of efforts have been made to bring more and more children to school, access remains a key concern for a number of them, especially in rural and backward areas. Apart from in cities, in most places students are forced to walk kilometers to access schools. Now an international is trying to make schools accessible for children in India. The Walking School Bus, an NGO based out of Vancouver, Canada aims to empower students in developing countries to access education. Successfully implemented in countries like Uganda, TWSB tries to make schools accessible for students. "Access to education has different connotations, it is about providing things like a schoolbus, or anything that makes it easier for students to reach school. In countries like India or Uganda the distance that a student have to travel to school is long. All we are trying to do is to make it easier for them," Sukriti Sachar, an executive team member of TWSB told Indiatimes. For their first project in India, TWSB has organised a 5 Km walk in Gurgaon on Sunday in partnership with Raahgiri Day with an aim to raise funds for a computer lab for a partner school. They also plan to provide audio books for school children to make education easier for them. "Our government has identified a problem with readability and hence the program called 'Reading Mela' has been initiated. In line with this, our reading program will enable students to read and understand better and faster,"Sachar said. The 5 Kms walk called 'Access In Motion (AIM) also want to raise awareness on access to education as well as funds to provide at least some of the lesser privileged, a better chance for education.

According to a joint study by Unesco Institute for Statistics and the Global Education Monitoring Report, 47 million adolescents in India have not progressed to upper secondary school, the highest in the world.

One of the biggest reasons behind the high number of dropouts is accessibility to schools.

BCCL/ Representative Image

While a number of efforts have been made to bring more and more children to school, access remains a key concern for a number of them, especially in rural and backward areas.

Apart from in cities, in most places students are forced to walk kilometers to access schools.

Now an international is trying to make schools accessible for children in India. The Walking School Bus, an NGO based out of Vancouver, Canada aims to empower students in developing countries to access education.

Successfully implemented in countries like Uganda, TWSB tries to make schools accessible for students.

TWSB/ Facebook

"Access to education has different connotations, it is about providing things like a schoolbus, or anything that makes it easier for students to reach school. In countries like India or Uganda the distance that a student have to travel to school is long. All we are trying to do is to make it easier for them," Sukriti Sachar, an executive team member of TWSB told Indiatimes.

For their first project in India, TWSB has organised a 5 Km walk in Gurgaon on Sunday in partnership with Raahgiri Day with an aim to raise funds for a computer lab for a partner school. They also plan to provide audio books for school children to make education easier for them.

BCCL/ Representative Image

"Our government has identified a problem with readability and hence the program called 'Reading Mela' has been initiated. In line with this, our reading program will enable students to read and understand better and faster,"Sachar said.

The 5 Kms walk called 'Access In Motion (AIM) also want to raise awareness on access to education as well as funds to provide at least some of the lesser privileged, a better chance for education.