Pakistan Finally Starts To Build Its First Warship + 5 Other Major Stories From Today
Pakistan Finally Starts To Build Its First Warship + 5 Other Major Stories From Today
Pakistan Finally Starts To Build Its First Warship + 5 Other Major Stories From Today Pakistan Navy is a no entity when it comes in comparison with mighty Indian Navy which an undisputed leader in the Indian Ocean, but in a bid to secure the trade route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Pakistan is building its first missile warship. The warship which was designed by Maritime Technologies Complex is Pakistan's “first indigenously designed missile boat” and will have the “latest weapons and sensors,” Defense News reported Tuesday. Read more here. Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Girl's Ears Chopped Off For Resisting Gangrape! BJP MP Rubbishes The Claim Barely 70 kms from the national capital, a teenaged girl in UP's Baghpat paid a heavy price for resisting gangrape as the attackers allegedly chopped off her ears. The gory incident reportedly took place on 4th January when four men allegedly kidnapped the girl, and when they failed to rape because of her fierce resistance they allegedly chopped off her ears. The attackers also beat mother of the girl who rushed to rescue her. After the girl raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot. Read more here 2. Ahead Of Assuming Office As US President, Trump Drops Real Estate Plans In Pune US President-elect Donald Trump is reported to have jettisoned his association with realty projects in several countries, including one in India, that attracted intense scrutiny soon after his election. The Trump organisation will discontinue "exploratory" talks over projects in Pune and in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the President-elect's attorney Alan Garten was quoted telling US media outlets on Thursday. Earlier, the Trump Organization had called off licensing deals for hotels in Brazil, Azerbaijan and Georgia. Read more here 3. China Seizes Passports Of Tibetans, Bars Them From Travelling To Bodhgaya For Dalai Lama Event Beijing has blocked thousands of Tibetans from attending a Buddhist event in Bodh Gaya which is being attended by Dalai Lama, according to reports from Nepal and China. China's state-run Global Times reported earlier this week that the "renewed" travel restrictions were imposed to battle terrorism and separatism.

AFP

Pakistan Navy is a no entity when it comes in comparison with mighty Indian Navy which an undisputed leader in the Indian Ocean, but in a bid to secure the trade route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Pakistan is building its first missile warship. The warship which was designed by Maritime Technologies Complex is Pakistan's “first indigenously designed missile boat” and will have the “latest weapons and sensors,” Defense News reported Tuesday. Read more here.

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Girl's Ears Chopped Off For Resisting Gangrape! BJP MP Rubbishes The Claim

ANI

Barely 70 kms from the national capital, a teenaged girl in UP's Baghpat paid a heavy price for resisting gangrape as the attackers allegedly chopped off her ears.

The gory incident reportedly took place on 4th January when four men allegedly kidnapped the girl, and when they failed to rape because of her fierce resistance they allegedly chopped off her ears. The attackers also beat mother of the girl who rushed to rescue her. After the girl raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot.Read more here

2. Ahead Of Assuming Office As US President, Trump Drops Real Estate Plans In Pune

just in just out

US President-elect Donald Trump is reported to have jettisoned his association with realty projects in several countries, including one in India, that attracted intense scrutiny soon after his election.

The Trump organisation will discontinue "exploratory" talks over projects in Pune and in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the President-elect's attorney Alan Garten was quoted telling US media outlets on Thursday. Earlier, the Trump Organization had called off licensing deals for hotels in Brazil, Azerbaijan and Georgia. Read more here

3. China Seizes Passports Of Tibetans, Bars Them From Travelling To Bodhgaya For Dalai Lama Event

AP

Beijing has blocked thousands of Tibetans from attending a Buddhist event in Bodh Gaya which is being attended by Dalai Lama, according to reports from Nepal and China.

China's state-run Global Times reported earlier this week that the "renewed" travel restrictions were imposed to battle terrorism and separatism.

However, according to the Tibetan government-in-exile, such travel restrictions have never been imposed by China at least in the recent past.. Read more here

4. Bengaluru’s Scooter Molesters Were Delivery Boys And They Had Been Stalking The Victim For Days

BCCL

The much sensationalised molestation of a north-eastern woman in Bengaluru, which grabbed the attention of the entire nation on Wednesday, has found a major breakthrough with the Bengaluru city police arresting four perverts while two are still at large.

The four molesters are identified as Aiyappa alias Nitish Kumar, 19, Leno alias Lenin Patrick, 20, Sudhesh alias Sudi, 20, Somashekar alias Chinni, 24, all residents of Kammanahalli area. Police Commissioner Praveen Sood said, "I wholeheartedly appreciate Prashanth Francis, a resident of Kammanahalli who helped us with CCTV camera footage installed at his house which captured the perverted actions of the arrested persons."Read more here

5. Mumbai Woman Slaps Traffic Cop For Stopping Her Husband While For Driving In A No-Entry Lane

BCCL/representational image

A criminal offence has been registered against a couple from Turbhe, a suburb of Navi Mumbai after the woman allegedly slapped a traffic police constable on the Thane-Belapur road on Thursday.

The woman Sapna Patil and her husband Sopan Awhad were in their car when her husband, who was at the wheel, allegedly drove into a no-entry lane around 7.45 pm. Read more here