deadmau5 Debuts BBC Radio 1 Residency With Tons of Techno: Listen
deadmau5 Debuts BBC Radio 1 Residency With Tons of Techno: Listen
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics deadmau5 Debuts BBC Radio 1 Residency With Tons of Techno: Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  If anyone in dance music could be labeled unpredictable, it's deadmau5 . He does what he wants precisely when he wants, and for the most part, he's darn good at it. He went off on ASOT only to take them up on a chance to spin trance his way at the Carl Cox and Friends tent at Ultra Miami in 2016. He dropped his latest album only to then talk about how he didn't really like it all that much. Then he started releasing boss hip-hop tracks with UK grime MC Shotty Horroh . He likes to take hard left turns, and on his debut mix for his BBC Radio 1 residency program, he decided to drop a bunch of underground sounds not often heard at a deadmau5 concert. He's droppin' Maceo Plex, Lane 8, Tycho, Pryda; and really, it's not all that off-brand. It's not like deadmau5 hasn't been known to meander into the digital deep end. We're just getting an even closer look at the breadth of his personal taste.  It's not a mix, really, more a radio program of tracks with commentary from the head mau5 in charge. Listen to the full two-hour presentation below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

If anyone in dance music could be labeled unpredictable, it's deadmau5. He does what he wants precisely when he wants, and for the most part, he's darn good at it. He went off on ASOT only to take them up on a chance to spin trance his way at the Carl Cox and Friends tent at Ultra Miami in 2016. He dropped his latest album W:/2016Album only to then talk about how he didn't really like it all that much. Then he started releasing boss hip-hop tracks with UK grime MC Shotty Horroh.

He likes to take hard left turns, and on his debut mix for his BBC Radio 1 residency program, he decided to drop a bunch of underground sounds not often heard at a deadmau5 concert. He's droppin' Maceo Plex, Lane 8, Tycho, Pryda; and really, it's not all that off-brand. It's not like deadmau5 hasn't been known to meander into the digital deep end. We're just getting an even closer look at the breadth of his personal taste.

It's not a mix, really, more a radio program of tracks with commentary from the head mau5 in charge. Listen to the full two-hour presentation below.