Carrie Fisher's urn is shaped like a giant Prozac pill, like she would've wanted
Carrie Fisher's urn is shaped like a giant Prozac pill, like she would've wanted
Carrie Fisher's legacy as a mental health advocate and her fiercely ironic sense of humor were encapsulated in one final gesture: Her Prozac pill-shaped urn. Fisher and her mother Debbie Reynolds, who died a day apart last week, were memorialized Thursday at a private service in their adjacent Beverly Hills homes. On Friday, paparazzi captured images of Fisher's brother Todd at Reynolds' burial at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles carrying what looked like a giant Prozac pill — which he later confirmed was his late sister's urn. SEE ALSO: Star Wars gamers gather to honor Carrie Fisher "Carrie's favorite possession was a giant Prozac pill that she brought many years ago. A big pill," Fisher told reporters, according to . "She loved it, and it was in her house, and Billie and I felt it was where she'd want to be." also reported that Fisher had wished to be cremated, and that some of her ashes were buried with Reynolds on Friday. Carrie Fisher's brother Todd carries her ashes in a Prozac pill-shaped urn. Image:  Clint Brewer / Splash News "We couldn't find anything appropriate," Fisher continued. "Carrie would like that," he added. "It was her favorite thing, and so that's how you do it. And so they're together, and they will be together here and in heaven, and we're O.K. with that." To be sure, Fisher was as cheeky in life about her own obituary as her family was about her final resting place: Fisher wrote in her book that she wanted her obit to read that she was " drowned in moonlight, strangled by my own bra ." Todd Fisher also told reporters that the family is planning a larger memorial service "down the road for the public and all the family friends," but did not give specifics. Fisher died Dec. 27 at age 60, less than a week after suffering a heart attack on a flight from London to LAX. The following day her mother, star and longtime Hollywood royalty Debbie Reynolds was stricken with stroke-like symptoms and died hours later . She was 84. BONUS: Carrie Fisher was a bold advocate for people with mental illness

Carrie Fisher's legacy as a mental health advocate and her fiercely ironic sense of humor were encapsulated in one final gesture: Her Prozac pill-shaped urn.

Fisher and her mother Debbie Reynolds, who died a day apart last week, were memorialized Thursday at a private service in their adjacent Beverly Hills homes. On Friday, paparazzi captured images of Fisher's brother Todd at Reynolds' burial at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles carrying what looked like a giant Prozac pill — which he later confirmed was his late sister's urn.

SEE ALSO: Star Wars gamers gather to honor Carrie Fisher

"Carrie's favorite possession was a giant Prozac pill that she brought many years ago. A big pill," Fisher told reporters, according to ET. "She loved it, and it was in her house, and Billie and I felt it was where she'd want to be."

ET also reported that Fisher had wished to be cremated, and that some of her ashes were buried with Reynolds on Friday.

Carrie Fisher's brother Todd carries her ashes in a Prozac pill-shaped urn. Image: Clint Brewer / Splash News

"We couldn't find anything appropriate," Fisher continued. "Carrie would like that," he added. "It was her favorite thing, and so that's how you do it. And so they're together, and they will be together here and in heaven, and we're O.K. with that."

To be sure, Fisher was as cheeky in life about her own obituary as her family was about her final resting place: Fisher wrote in her book Wishful Drinking that she wanted her obit to read that she was "drowned in moonlight, strangled by my own bra."

Todd Fisher also told reporters that the family is planning a larger memorial service "down the road for the public and all the family friends," but did not give specifics.

Fisher died Dec. 27 at age 60, less than a week after suffering a heart attack on a flight from London to LAX. The following day her mother, Singin' in the Rain star and longtime Hollywood royalty Debbie Reynolds was stricken with stroke-like symptoms and died hours later. She was 84.