35 Things From 2007 You Would Never Do Today
35 Things From 2007 You Would Never Do Today
Listing your age as 99 years old on Myspace. Wearing shutter shades. Being *invested* in this relationship. Thinking they were going *to last.* Having a Blackberry and saying you “couldn’t live” without it. Wanting an iPhone but being unable to get it because they had that exclusive deal with AT&T or something. Afp / AFP / Getty Images Afp / AFP / Getty Images Carrying an iPod and your phone because you needed two devices to play music. Buying ringtones… …and of course, recording your ringtone off the radio. Yelling “Don’t tase me, bro!” whenever you goofed around with your friends. Hating on books. Feeling like an insider ‘cause you watched Myspace Secret Shows. Teen pregnancy, in general. The Black Eyed Peas, in general. Mailing Netflix envelopes. Singing this song: Or this song: Wanting a white Macbook… …and then spending hours playing with Photo Booth. Rating YouTube videos with stars. Appropriating keffiyeh scarves (that you bought at Urban). Wearing super-cropped vests. Alberto E. Rodriguez / Getty Images Evan Agostini / Getty Images  . Reading “Perez.” Emailing Rickrolling videos to your friends — ‘cause LOL. Trying to figure out who the fuck was Gossip Girl. Taking selfies in front of a mirror with an actual camera. Clothing with skulls. Being the first person to write on your friend’s Facebook Wall… …and also sending them virtual gifts. Bumper stickers. Pointless groups. Making Facebook groups for lost phones. Making your best friends your siblings. And, of course, having “poking wars” for absolutely no reason.   Is Your Personality More Michael Scott Or Toby Flenderson...    How Garbage Was Your Pop Culture Taste In 2007?  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.