Brother of Ft. Lauderdale Suspect Says He Received Psychological Treatment

Brother of Ft. Lauderdale Suspect Says He Received Psychological Treatment // // // The suspect in the deadly shooting at the Fort Lauderdale airport had been receiving psychological treatment while living in Alaska, according to his brother. Bryan Santiago told The Associated Press that his family got a call in recent months from 26-year-old Esteban Santiago's girlfriend alerting them to the situation. He said that he did not know what his brother was treated for and that they never spoke about it over the phone. Bryan Santiago also said that his brother was born in New Jersey but moved to Puerto Rico when he was two years old. He said that he served in the island's National Guard, and was deployed to Iraq in 2010. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) said earlier today that the gunman was carrying a military ID that identified him as Esteban Santiago, but that it was unclear whether the ID was his. Nelson gave no further information on the suspect. Watch the co-hosts of "The Five" react above, and share your thoughts in the comments.

Judge Jeanine: Chicago Facebook Live Video Attackers 'Have No Remorse'

Trump, Schwarzenegger Battle Over 'New Celebrity Apprentice' Ratings

Liberty University to Open Gun Range on Campus

The suspect in the deadly shooting at the Fort Lauderdale airport had been receiving psychological treatment while living in Alaska, according to his brother.

Bryan Santiago told The Associated Press that his family got a call in recent months from 26-year-old Esteban Santiago's girlfriend alerting them to the situation.

He said that he did not know what his brother was treated for and that they never spoke about it over the phone.

Bryan Santiago also said that his brother was born in New Jersey but moved to Puerto Rico when he was two years old.

He said that he served in the island's National Guard, and was deployed to Iraq in 2010.

Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) said earlier today that the gunman was carrying a military ID that identified him as Esteban Santiago, but that it was unclear whether the ID was his.

Nelson gave no further information on the suspect.

Watch the co-hosts of "The Five" react above, and share your thoughts in the comments.

Report: Obama to Transfer 18 More Gitmo Detainees Before Trump Takes Office

VP Joe Biden on Trump: 'Grow Up Donald. You're President'

MA Sheriff Offers County's Inmates to Help Build Trump's Mexico Border Wall

Cruz: 'History Is Going to Record Obama & Kerry as Relentless Enemies of Israel'