At 6 P.M., Married. At 7:30 P.M., Onstage.
At 6 P.M., Married. At 7:30 P.M., Onstage.
The show must go on, and the wedding must go on, too. Kathleen Littlefield, 28, now knows what it is like to be center stage for both. On the same day. On Dec. 15, Ms. Littlefield, as an understudy, filled in for the ill Zoe Kazan in the role of Rose in the five-person ensemble of the dark comedy “Love, Love, Love,” an Off Broadway play at the sold-out Roundabout Theater in Manhattan. Ms. Littlefield also had plans that day to marry Michael Pantozzi, 32, at the Green Building in Brooklyn. Wedding time: 6 p.m. Showtime: 7:30 p.m. “We knew this was a possibility that I might be performing, and how totally crazy it would be,” Ms. Littlefield said, recalling the day she learned she was cast as an understudy. “Welcome to the world of being working actors.” Ms. Littlefield said her most important line of the day was the one directed at Mr. Pantozzi, also an actor and a writer. When their officiant and friend, Danny Mitarotondo (who became a Universal Life minister), asked her if she would take Mr. Pantozzi as her husband, she needed no prompting. “I will, I will, I will,” she said, to the delight of their 135 guests at the Green Building. Ms. Littlefield recalled telling her husband immediately after: “That ceremony was the most perfect thing I could have imagined.” Advertisement Twenty minutes later, after signing the marriage certificate and quickly changing out of her grandmother’s wedding dress (but leaving on her glittery white Kate Spade sneakers), the bride left the building with her groom. They jumped in an Uber car, which dropped them at the F train, heading toward the Roundabout. Next stop, backstage. NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Mr. Pantozzi and Mr. Mitarotondo, who also hopped in the car, took their seats in the 400-seat theater as Ms. Littlefield, trailed by her wedding photographer, Quyn Duong , went backstage, where her hair and makeup station had been decorated with a “Just Married” sign. Ms. Littlefield had a little time to breathe before she stepped onstage, which first occurred during Act 2. Ms. Littlefield was also an understudy in “The Glass Menagerie” on Broadway in 2013-14, but she did not have an onstage opportunity. In 2015, she was in the Off Off Broadway show “The Man of the Hour,” at the Metropolitan Playhouse in the East Village. No doubt, her performance Dec. 15 was her most memorable to date. Mr. Pantozzi , who had seen his wife first step in as understudy earlier in the show’s run, was now watching her last appearance on their wedding night. “They were definitely different,” he said. “It was remarkable during her first show how well she integrated into the cast that had already been performing for two months. But the night of our wedding, she was obviously filled with an extreme amount of adrenaline. It was a deeper performance.” After the show, they were back in an Uber car on the way back to the Green Building. Mr. Pantozzi turned to his wife in the car and simply told her, “Well, that was spectacular.” Their next act awaited. They arrived back at the Green Building about 10:30 p.m., where their waiting guests were enjoying the five-hour cocktail hour, hors d’oeuvres aplenty. The bride and groom went straight into their first dance, then cut the cake and listened to the toasts of friends and family members, “and then we were all out on the dance floor till the end of the night,” the bride said. “It was a crazy fun day,” she said. And one filled with love, love, love. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2017, on Page ST4 of the with the headline: At 6 p.m., Married. At 7:30 p.m., Onstage.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. VOWS    VOWS    VOWS

Photo

The show must go on, and the wedding must go on, too.

Kathleen Littlefield, 28, now knows what it is like to be center stage for both. On the same day.

On Dec. 15, Ms. Littlefield, as an understudy, filled in for the ill Zoe Kazan in the role of Rose in the five-person ensemble of the dark comedy “Love, Love, Love,” an Off Broadway play at the sold-out Roundabout Theater in Manhattan. Ms. Littlefield also had plans that day to marry Michael Pantozzi, 32, at the Green Building in Brooklyn.

Photo

Wedding time: 6 p.m. Showtime: 7:30 p.m.

“We knew this was a possibility that I might be performing, and how totally crazy it would be,” Ms. Littlefield said, recalling the day she learned she was cast as an understudy. “Welcome to the world of being working actors.”

Ms. Littlefield said her most important line of the day was the one directed at Mr. Pantozzi, also an actor and a writer. When their officiant and friend, Danny Mitarotondo (who became a Universal Life minister), asked her if she would take Mr. Pantozzi as her husband, she needed no prompting.

Photo

“I will, I will, I will,” she said, to the delight of their 135 guests at the Green Building.

Ms. Littlefield recalled telling her husband immediately after: “That ceremony was the most perfect thing I could have imagined.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twenty minutes later, after signing the marriage certificate and quickly changing out of her grandmother’s wedding dress (but leaving on her glittery white Kate Spade sneakers), the bride left the building with her groom. They jumped in an Uber car, which dropped them at the F train, heading toward the Roundabout. Next stop, backstage.

NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Pantozzi and Mr. Mitarotondo, who also hopped in the car, took their seats in the 400-seat theater as Ms. Littlefield, trailed by her wedding photographer, Quyn Duong, went backstage, where her hair and makeup station had been decorated with a “Just Married” sign. Ms. Littlefield had a little time to breathe before she stepped onstage, which first occurred during Act 2.

Ms. Littlefield was also an understudy in “The Glass Menagerie” on Broadway in 2013-14, but she did not have an onstage opportunity. In 2015, she was in the Off Off Broadway show “The Man of the Hour,” at the Metropolitan Playhouse in the East Village. No doubt, her performance Dec. 15 was her most memorable to date.

Photo

Mr. Pantozzi, who had seen his wife first step in as understudy earlier in the show’s run, was now watching her last appearance on their wedding night.

“They were definitely different,” he said. “It was remarkable during her first show how well she integrated into the cast that had already been performing for two months. But the night of our wedding, she was obviously filled with an extreme amount of adrenaline. It was a deeper performance.”

After the show, they were back in an Uber car on the way back to the Green Building. Mr. Pantozzi turned to his wife in the car and simply told her, “Well, that was spectacular.” Their next act awaited.

They arrived back at the Green Building about 10:30 p.m., where their waiting guests were enjoying the five-hour cocktail hour, hors d’oeuvres aplenty. The bride and groom went straight into their first dance, then cut the cake and listened to the toasts of friends and family members, “and then we were all out on the dance floor till the end of the night,” the bride said.

“It was a crazy fun day,” she said. And one filled with love, love, love.