7 Reasons Running Is The Ideal Activity For The Lazy Exerciser
7 Reasons Running Is The Ideal Activity For The Lazy Exerciser
7 Reasons Running Is The Ideal Activity For The Lazy Exerciser As one of the most natural movements you can perform, it needs the least prepping up before getting into the act. Hell, you can even do it in the comfort of your PJs—as long as they are tied up well enough not to fall off when you're in full stride. There is no rocket science to it, except for some techniques on running form that you can pick up on the way. As long as the body parts in your lower limbs that take the load while you're in full stride allow you to, running can be quite a fulfilling experience in the long run and one you might want to hold on to. Here's why    We know how tempting getting off the blocks into a full stride may be, but hang on if you want your high to last the entire run. If you run into pain, feel awful or out of breath during or post your run, you are most likely trying to run before you can learn how to walk. Instead, Then gradually work your way up to make it a pain-free experience in the long-term. It might be quite a task to accommodate your gym class schedule with your busy lifestyle. Running, on the other hand, adapts to the way you want to accommodate it into your schedule.    You don't necessarily need a particular location to run. Technically, you could step out of your door and get off and running. Besides, That additional bit of time adds to your total training time and benefits the planet as well. Additionally, running around in new cities while you travel allows you to explore the landscape first hand. It is probably harder not to find the motivation if you are looking to take up running seriously.    Even if you do, however, it still comes out to be a whole lot cheaper than buying equipment for other activities, such as biking. Just make sure you buy appropriate footwear that suits your needs, not necessarily only because they are cute.

This does not come as a surprise, but it seems more conscientious exercising remains to be the most common New Year resolution. What's even more apparent is that running is the first thing that comes to mind for most, and with good reason. Although it might seem counter-intuitive for someone, who's always believed running to be hard work, especially since the onset of the number of marathons that have sprung up across the globe in the last decade or so, it comes across as one of the most instinctive ways of keeping fit.

well.blogs.nytimes.com

As one of the most natural movements you can perform, it needs the least prepping up before getting into the act. Hell, you can even do it in the comfort of your PJs—as long as they are tied up well enough not to fall off when you're in full stride. There is no rocket science to it, except for some techniques on running form that you can pick up on the way. As long as the body parts in your lower limbs that take the load while you're in full stride allow you to, running can be quite a fulfilling experience in the long run and one you might want to hold on to. Here's why

stuff.co.nz

It’s only hard if you make it so

We know how tempting getting off the blocks into a full stride may be, but hang on if you want your high to last the entire run. If you run into pain, feel awful or out of breath during or post your run, you are most likely trying to run before you can learn how to walk. Instead, ease into the act by running at a slow pace; just enough to leave you energised not exhausted by the end of your run. Then gradually work your way up to make it a pain-free experience in the long-term.

It's a perfect fit in your schedule

It might be quite a task to accommodate your gym class schedule with your busy lifestyle. Running, on the other hand, adapts to the way you want to accommodate it into your schedule. Runs give you the flexibility of placing them into your schedule according to the changes you make in your planner on a daily basis.

therunnerstrip.com

You can run anywhere

You don't necessarily need a particular location to run. Technically, you could step out of your door and get off and running. Besides, if you want to travel to a specific location that is 10-15 minutes away, you can kick-off your workout beforehand just by walking to the venue. That additional bit of time adds to your total training time and benefits the planet as well. Additionally, running around in new cities while you travel allows you to explore the landscape first hand.

Motivation for running is always at hand

Out of the slew of running events (such as the ones on indiarunning.com), running apps, support groups, running groups, blogs, training camps, and fitness gadgets geared towards running, it's hard not to find the motivation to run, or advice on how to train for a run if you wish to. It is probably harder not to find the motivation if you are looking to take up running seriously.

feetgenius.com

The only gear you need is a pair of running shoes

It's true unless you get to the point where you would like to invest in seasonal specific running clothing or accessories that are a dime a dozen. Even if you do, however, it still comes out to be a whole lot cheaper than buying equipment for other activities, such as biking. Just make sure you buy appropriate footwear that suits your needs, not necessarily only because they are cute.

The benefits of running are unmatched

Running brings a whole barrage of health benefits to the table. But in the larger scheme of things, let’s take its capacity to burn calories as an example. Running comes fourth in Mayo Clinic's calorie-burning chart, depending on your pace. For instance, a 72-kilo person can burn up to 100 calories per 1.6 kilometres at a speed of around 8 kilometres per hour; that's a whopping 600 calories per hour. A 90-kilo person can burn up to 755 calories per hour at the same speed. And upping your speed can give you an even more substantial burn.

active.com

It remains to be one of the most environmentally-friendly activities

Except for running events that generate a considerable amount of waste — something organisers should take note of — there are not too many activities that have a lower impact on the planet than the act of running. All you need are a pair of sneakers as an addition to run. How convenient is that?