High school teacher's Facebook page 'urged people to vote for Donald Trump so Muslims could be butchered'
High school teacher's Facebook page 'urged people to vote for Donald Trump so Muslims could be butchered'
A US teacher has been condemned after posts on his Facebook page called for people to vote for Donald Trump so Muslims would be “butchered” . The publicly available posts on an account in the name of Dan Close, a history teacher and athletics coach at Dewey High School in Oklahoma, included a series of rants in which Islam was described as a “death cult” and same-sex marriage as “a sin against nature”. One of the posts, which have since been deleted, was responding to a terror attack and allegedly said: “Another Islam attack. Happy Ramadan to everyone. Death cult. "Vote for Clinton if you want to appease the dog pigs. Vote Trump if you want them butchered. Happy Ramadan to all infidels.” Hillary Clinton was called a “pantsuited beast”, Barack Obama was the “Imam-in-chief” living in the “White Mosque”, and another post claimed Michelle Obama was not female. Read more Chrome extension changes ‘alt-right’ to ‘white supremacy’ Donald Trump disavows his alt-right and neo-Nazi supporters Leading Democrats table bill to block Donald Trump's 'Muslim registry' America had “spit in the face of God, Jesus and the Laws of Nature” by legalising same-sex marriage and the “Gaystapo” were running the country, the posts added, according to . The messages were sent several years ago and were public until complaints were made in November 2016. A former pupil of Mr Close – who is a friend of his on Facebook and who wished to remain anonymous, said it had been clear that Mr Close was right-wing. “I knew his political leaning and there was definitely a bias in that he made it very clear which political side he was on," he said. He insisted Mr Close was a good teacher but had a “political fire” in him that was “definitely skewed towards the right” . Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On Mexicans   “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Senator McCain   “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”   Getty Images     On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”   Getty Images     On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”   AFP/Getty Images     On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."   Getty Images     On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”   AFP/Getty Images     On president Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”   Getty Images     On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."   AFP/Getty Images     On Hilary Clinton's emails   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”   AFP/Getty Images     On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”   Getty Images     On tax loopholes   "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."   AFP/Getty Images     On his accuser   “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”   Getty Images     On his pro-life stance   “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable”   Getty Images     On his accusers   "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”   Getty Images     On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”   Getty Images  The posts first came to light when a retired teacher from Oklahoma City, Paula Washington, reported them to the local public school system’s superintendent, Vince Vincent. She told : “I told him how objectionable it was. I told him how a teacher has an obligation to express facts — especially a history teacher, to teach facts without opinion. “The vitriol and the complete hatred that he had shown on his Facebook page had not only been seen by his students, but students all over the country.   Anti-Muslim hate crimes in US reaching 9/11 levels “Had it not been associated with his work, I would support his First Amendment rights, but I also know he represents the educational system for which he works, and I couldn’t mesh the two." She said Mr Vincent had been “respectful” about the matter but regarded it as a freedom of speech issue. Mr Vincent told the school did not wish to comment on the matter but did say they were “aware of the story” and were “continuing to investigate the situation”. has contacted Mr Close for comment. More about: Anti-Muslim Islamophobia Dewey High School homophobia Comments

A US teacher has been condemned after posts on his Facebook page called for people to vote for Donald Trump so Muslims would be “butchered”.

The publicly available posts on an account in the name of Dan Close, a history teacher and athletics coach at Dewey High School in Oklahoma, included a series of rants in which Islam was described as a “death cult” and same-sex marriage as “a sin against nature”.

One of the posts, which have since been deleted, was responding to a terror attack and allegedly said: “Another Islam attack. Happy Ramadan to everyone. Death cult.

"Vote for Clinton if you want to appease the dog pigs. Vote Trump if you want them butchered. Happy Ramadan to all infidels.”

Hillary Clinton was called a “pantsuited beast”, Barack Obama was the “Imam-in-chief” living in the “White Mosque”, and another post claimed Michelle Obama was not female.

America had “spit in the face of God, Jesus and the Laws of Nature” by legalising same-sex marriage and the “Gaystapo” were running the country, the posts added, according to Buzzfeed News.

The messages were sent several years ago and were public until complaints were made in November 2016.

A former pupil of Mr Close – who is a friend of his on Facebook and who wished to remain anonymous, said it had been clear that Mr Close was right-wing.

“I knew his political leaning and there was definitely a bias in that he made it very clear which political side he was on," he said.

He insisted Mr Close was a good teacher but had a “political fire” in him that was “definitely skewed towards the right”.

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On Mexicans “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.” AFP/Getty Images

2/18 On Senator McCain “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” Getty Images

3/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” AFP/Getty Images

4/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Getty Images

5/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” AFP/Getty Images

6/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." Getty Images

7/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” AFP/Getty Images

8/18 On president Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” Getty Images

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." AFP/Getty Images

10/18 On Hilary Clinton's emails “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” AFP/Getty Images

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” Getty Images

12/18 On tax loopholes "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." AFP/Getty Images

13/18 On his accuser “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” Getty Images

14/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” Getty Images

15/18 On his pro-life stance “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable” Getty Images

16/18 On his accusers "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Getty Images

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” Getty Images

18/18 On Hillary Clinton “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Getty Images

The posts first came to light when a retired teacher from Oklahoma City, Paula Washington, reported them to the local public school system’s superintendent, Vince Vincent.

She told Buzzfeed: “I told him how objectionable it was. I told him how a teacher has an obligation to express facts — especially a history teacher, to teach facts without opinion.

“The vitriol and the complete hatred that he had shown on his Facebook page had not only been seen by his students, but students all over the country.

“Had it not been associated with his work, I would support his First Amendment rights, but I also know he represents the educational system for which he works, and I couldn’t mesh the two."

She said Mr Vincent had been “respectful” about the matter but regarded it as a freedom of speech issue.

Mr Vincent told The Independent the school did not wish to comment on the matter but did say they were “aware of the story” and were “continuing to investigate the situation”.

The Independent has contacted Mr Close for comment.