These kids toys have very detailed genitalia and people want to know why
These kids toys have very detailed genitalia and people want to know why
Bob Velcoro tweeted a photo of his child’s toy, asking the question we're sure is on everyone else's lips right now: Not sure why this toy needs this level of detail Not sure why this toy needs this level of detail pic.twitter.com/WB7WKJQKcI  But that, weirdly, isn't the most confusing part, he says all the other farmyard animal toys are without genitalia, it's JUST the horse: The gorilla, lion, zebra, giraffe, pig, and sheep do not have dicks. Only the horse.  The plot thickens. A helpful tweeter pointed out that the genitalia is very much human in appearance, not horse like: @atbobb that's a human dick  And someone even came forward with a potential love interest for the horse in question: @atbobb  @Dieuwer Maybe they should meet 💕 pic.twitter.com/LoWn1JjJsw  Others uncovered some serious competition: @atbobb Not sure why my ceramic turtles do either!! They were my GRANDMA'S turtles pic.twitter.com/Eiosa8fNMS  @atbobb well I cannot look at them like before..... pic.twitter.com/APskKIgB8z  While everyone else's responses were just great: @atbobb cock size is not proportional here. id demand a refund unless they make the cock bigger.  @atbobb  @Shadesuki that's a choking hazard  @atbobb Even the horse doesn't appear to understand what's going on here  @atbobb  @ReppinMyBird When people say that I'm 'hung like a horse' they mean this horse.                     Keep scrolling for next article

If you’ve ever wondered what a horse penis looked like, but haven’t been quite curious enough to Google it, fear not.

Bob Velcoro tweeted a photo of his child’s toy, asking the question we're sure is on everyone else's lips right now:

Not sure why this toy needs this level of detail

Not sure why this toy needs this level of detail pic.twitter.com/WB7WKJQKcI — Bob Velcoro (@atbobb) January 5, 2017

But that, weirdly, isn't the most confusing part, he says all the other farmyard animal toys are without genitalia, it's JUST the horse:

The gorilla, lion, zebra, giraffe, pig, and sheep do not have dicks. Only the horse. — Bob Velcoro (@atbobb) January 5, 2017

The plot thickens.

A helpful tweeter pointed out that the genitalia is very much human in appearance, not horse like:

@atbobb that's a human dick — Quinoa Appropriator (@MattAlwayswrong) January 5, 2017

And someone even came forward with a potential love interest for the horse in question:

Others uncovered some serious competition:

@atbobb

Not sure why my ceramic turtles do either!! They were my GRANDMA'S turtles pic.twitter.com/Eiosa8fNMS — Shawn Singer (@ShawnSinger1012) January 5, 2017

@atbobb well I cannot look at them like before..... pic.twitter.com/APskKIgB8z — Eszter Anna (@hypesther) January 6, 2017

While everyone else's responses were just great:

@atbobb cock size is not proportional here. id demand a refund unless they make the cock bigger. — New Year New Maury (@sexyhitler_420) January 5, 2017

@atbobb Even the horse doesn't appear to understand what's going on here — internet alias (@styrovor) January 5, 2017

@atbobb @ReppinMyBird When people say that I'm 'hung like a horse' they mean this horse. — Sean O' Donovan (@henriksen1) January 5, 2017

More: This year's 'must have' toy is swearing at children

More: Introducing the (new) world's most inappropriate children's toy