Here’s Why Your Boobs Aren’t Perfectly Symmetrical
Here's Why Your Boobs Aren't Perfectly Symmetrical
Boobs are like snowflakes. No two are exactly alike. So if you’ve ever wondered why one of your breasts is a little bigger or perkier than the other, you’re in good company. In fact, literally everyone has some level of variation up there. “One hundred percent of women have breast asymmetry,” Dr. Daniel Maman, board-certified plastic surgeon with 740 Park Plastic Surgery , tells BuzzFeed Health. Mismatched boobs happen because no one is perfectly symmetrical. If you took a mirror image of one side of your face, for instance, the resulting image would probably look a little bit off. Same goes for your hands and breasts, says Maman. Breast asymmetry can vary from a super-subtle difference to a whole cup size (or more) from boob to boob. “It’s just normal anatomical fetal development that results in asymmetry on one side of the body,” Maman says. It usually has to do with different volumes of breast tissue or a different size or shape of the breast pocket, he says. But it could also be caused by factors like skin elasticity or, in post-pregnancy cases, if a baby breastfed on one side more than the other. Unfortunately, you can’t just exercise the asymmetry away. Even if the internet seems to think you can. The pectoral muscles sit below the breast tissue, so strengthening them won’t likely make a difference, says Maman. Nipple variation is a thing, too. You might have one nipple that’s slightly larger, higher, or darker than the other. Or you might have one nipple that’s inverted and one that’s not. All of this is super common and nothing to worry about or be self-conscious about. If there’s a drastic difference and it’s really bothering you, there are ways to fix it surgically . Maman says there are a few different options, including augmenting the smaller breast, reducing the larger breast, augmenting both sides, or reducing both sides. Since this is typically considered elective cosmetic surgery, it probably won’t be covered by your insurance. However in some cases it may be considered reconstructive surgery and could be covered. Keep in mind that even after surgery your boobs probably won’t be exact mirror images of each other. Things like weight, skin elasticity, and even rogue nipple hairs will make sure of that. Other than that, there’s not much you can do about the difference — nor should you feel you to. When there’s a noticeable, annoying difference (like if one breast fills out a bra cup much more than the other) some people may pad one side to even it out. But you also don’t need to do a damn thing about it if you don’t want to. All boobs are good boobs, and what you decide to do with yours is 100% up to you!                        Here’s Why Your Boobs Aren’t Perfectly Symmetrical                       SHARE YOUR VOTE!            Here’s Why Your Boobs Aren’t Perfectly Symmetrical           SHARE YOUR VOTE!   13 People Who Lost 40+ Pounds Share What Really Got...    13 Very Important Questions About DIY Sex Toys  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

1. Boobs are like snowflakes. No two are exactly alike.

Anna Borges / Via buzzfeed.com

So if you’ve ever wondered why one of your breasts is a little bigger or perkier than the other, you’re in good company. In fact, literally everyone has some level of variation up there.

“One hundred percent of women have breast asymmetry,” Dr. Daniel Maman, board-certified plastic surgeon with 740 Park Plastic Surgery, tells BuzzFeed Health.