A great grandmother has been praying to a Lord of the Rings figurine for years
A great grandmother has been praying to a Lord of the Rings figurine for years
A great grandmother from Brazil has just discovered she has been praying to a figurine from Lord of the Rings . Gabriela Brandão posted photos to Facebook of the figurine her daughter’s great grandmother has been praying to every day. She wrote: The funniest discovery of 2016. My daughter’s great-grandmother prays to this figure of Saint Anthony every day. But looking more closely…  Brandão had done a bit of research, and found out the Saint Anthony imposter was actually a figurine of Elrond, an elf from Lord of the Rings. The exact figurine was available to purchase on Ebay . And this is Lord Elrond:  To be fair, the two do have a lot in common: robes and similar-ish facial features. Brandão told BuzzFeed they shared the bad news with great grandma: We tried to explain right away but she didn’t understand at first. The next day we explained again and she understood and we got her a new figure of Saint Anthony.  More: City maps reimagined in style of JRR Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings More: A never-before-seen map of Middle-earth annotated by JRR Tolkien was found in a copy of The Lord of the Rings                    Keep scrolling for next article

For some people, Lord of the Rings can become a bit of an obsession. But it seems one woman has taken things a bit further and accidently made it her religion.

A great grandmother from Brazil has just discovered she has been praying to a figurine from Lord of the Rings for years.

Gabriela Brandão posted photos to Facebook of the figurine her daughter’s great grandmother has been praying to every day.

She wrote:

The funniest discovery of 2016. My daughter’s great-grandmother prays to this figure of Saint Anthony every day. But looking more closely…

Brandão had done a bit of research, and found out the Saint Anthony imposter was actually a figurine of Elrond, an elf from Lord of the Rings.

The exact figurine was available to purchase on Ebay.

And this is Lord Elrond:

Picture: ( Moviestore Collection/REX)

To be fair, the two do have a lot in common: robes and similar-ish facial features.

Brandão told BuzzFeed they shared the bad news with great grandma:

We tried to explain right away but she didn’t understand at first. The next day we explained again and she understood and we got her a new figure of Saint Anthony.

More: City maps reimagined in style of JRR Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings

More: A never-before-seen map of Middle-earth annotated by JRR Tolkien was found in a copy of The Lord of the Rings