Azaz suspected ISIS car bomb attack kills people outside Islamic courthouse in Syria
Car bomb kills at least 48 in a suspected ISIS attack on civilians


A car bomb has killed at least 48 people, mostly civilians, in the rebel-held Syrian town of Azaz on the border with Turkey.

Dozens were also wounded in the attack on Saturday which struck in front of an Islamic courthouse near a market, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

The group said the toll was likely to rise in the attack, which was the latest in a string of bombings to hit Azaz that have previously been blamed on ISIS.

Scroll down for video

People carry out search and rescue works at the area of blast after a bomb-laden vehicle attacked to local courthouse in Azaz district of Aleppo

Men run away from the blast that killed at least 48 people as vehicles burn in the background

A fire engine makes its way to the blast zone to extinguish the flames caused by the bomb

People gather amidst the debris at the site of the bomb attack in the rebel-held town of Azaz

People carry out search and rescue works at the area of blast after a bomb-laden vehicle attacked a local courthouse in the Azaz district of Aleppo

Two injured Syrian women are seen at the scene of blast, which killed at least 48 people

Firefighters co-ordinate a rescue operation after the blast ripped through the town near the Turkish border

Fire rages in the background as people run away from the blast zone in Azaz, Syria

A barefoot and bloodied man and his fellow civilians carry a casualty to a car after the blast

Video footage obtained by MailOnline shows children and women covered in blood racing from the blast zone.

Another man is seen running away from the smoke on fire.

Observatory chief Rami Abdel Rahman said identification of the dead was being hampered by the fact that some bodies were completely burned in the blast.

Images the scene showed huge clouds of smoke rising from a street filled with debris and twisted metal, which bulldozers were working to clear.

In unverified comments, Turkey's privately-owned Dogan news agency said a car bomb planted by Islamic State was responsible.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility from the terror group.

Turkey's state-run Anadolu news agency cited a doctor in Azaz as saying at least 60 people had been killed and more than 50 wounded.

An Azaz resident who went to the local hospital said he had counted around 30 bodies laid out.

The Britain-based group said six rebels were among the dead, but most were believed to be civilians.

Civilians with search and rescue team members trying to extinguish a fire that broke out in the wake of the bomb blast

Bulldozers worked to clear the wreckage after the bomb went off near a busy marketplace

Images the scene showed huge clouds of smoke rising from a street filled with debris and twisted metal

A damaged vehicle and building are seen at the area of blast after a bomb-laden vehicle attacked a local courthouse in Azaz

The blast was the latest in a string of bombings to hit Azaz that have previously been blamed on Islamic State

The aftermath of the car bomb attack in the Syrian town where at least 48 people were killed

Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the toll was likely to rise in the attack

People inspect the area of blast after the bomb-laden vehicle attacked

In November, rebels said 25 people - civilians and opposition fighters - were killed in a car bomb attack on a rebel headquarters.

The rebels accused the Islamic State group of being behind that attack.

The jihadist group is present elsewhere in Aleppo province and has sought to advance on Azaz in the past.

Civilians flee the scene of the bomb attack

In October, at least 17 people were killed in a car bomb attack on a rebel checkpoint, the Observatory said.

The blast comes as a fragile ceasefire is being observed across much of Syria.

The truce negotiated by regime ally Russia and rebel backer Turkey does not include the Islamic State group or former Al-Qaeda affiliate Fateh al-Sham Front.

More than 310,000 people have been killed in Syria since the conflict began with anti-government protests in March 2011.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the latest attack.

Syria's nearly six-year war has create a patchwork of areas of control across the country, and Azaz is a major stronghold of the Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army (FSA).

The FSA is an alliance of moderate rebel groups whose fighters have, with Turkish military support, pushed Islamic State militants out of the border area.

Saturday's explosion was heard across the border in the Turkish town of Kilis, Dogan said.

Anadolu said 23 wounded people had been taken by ambulance to Kilis hospital, one of whom subsequently died.

In a round-up of its military operations over the last 24 hours in support of rebels in northern Syria, the Turkish military said on Saturday that 21 Islamic State militants had been killed in clashes.