Shimla Is Covered In A Thick Blanket Of Snow And We Want Nothing More Than To Be There!
Shimla Is Covered In A Thick Blanket Of Snow And We Want Nothing More Than To Be There!
Shimla Is Covered In A Thick Blanket Of Snow And We Want Nothing More Than To Be There! If we had Aladdin's magic carpet, we would definitely fly off to Shimla because it's the most beautiful place on earth right now. Covered with a thick blanket of snow, Shimla is looking like something straight out of a postcard. 1. Despite the roads getting blocked and electricity being affected, we'd love to sit beside a chimney and look out of the window Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall, many roads blocked, electricity supply also hampered in most of the areas. pic.twitter.com/uOydiCemmx 2. A book, and a cup of coffee with your loved one by your side to cuddle up to is all you need Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall, electricity supply hampered in most of the areas. pic.twitter.com/Q9df20lcaa 3. Tourists could be inconvenienced, but sitting back and enjoying the snow can sometimes be the best plan ever! Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall in the morning, all roads in Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Mashobra closed. pic.twitter.com/0k8yOIZ7kg 4. Can city-dwellers experience this kind of snowfall too? I know it's too much to ask for! Himachal Pradesh: Shimla turns white, witnesses heavy snowfall. pic.twitter.com/NLE7JuHkGC Sigh!

If we had Aladdin's magic carpet, we would definitely fly off to Shimla because it's the most beautiful place on earth right now. Covered with a thick blanket of snow, Shimla is looking like something straight out of a postcard.

1. Despite the roads getting blocked and electricity being affected, we'd love to sit beside a chimney and look out of the window

Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall, many roads blocked, electricity supply also hampered in most of the areas. pic.twitter.com/uOydiCemmx — ANI (@ANI_news) January 7, 2017

2. A book, and a cup of coffee with your loved one by your side to cuddle up to is all you need

Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall, electricity supply hampered in most of the areas. pic.twitter.com/Q9df20lcaa — ANI (@ANI_news) January 7, 2017



3. Tourists could be inconvenienced, but sitting back and enjoying the snow can sometimes be the best plan ever!

Himachal Pradesh: Shimla receives heavy snowfall in the morning, all roads in Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Mashobra closed. pic.twitter.com/0k8yOIZ7kg — ANI (@ANI_news) January 7, 2017



4. Can city-dwellers experience this kind of snowfall too? I know it's too much to ask for!

Himachal Pradesh: Shimla turns white, witnesses heavy snowfall. pic.twitter.com/NLE7JuHkGC — ANI (@ANI_news) January 7, 2017

Sigh!