She was angry she always lost. So this woman threatened to kill lottery officials, police say.

A Pennsylvania lottery player who kept buying losing scratch-off tickets called her string of losses a conspiracy and threatened to kill employees at state lottery headquarters, authorities said. Towanda A. Shields is wanted on 53 charges, including harassment, stalking and terroristic threats, for phone calls and voice-mail messages that police said started as a “nuisance” last year and escalated into a “relentless” stream of hostile, sexually explicit and threatening statements to Pennsylvania Lottery officials in Lower Swatara Township. Police there issued a warrant for her arrest Tuesday and are working with authorities in Philadelphia, where Shields lives, to bring her into custody. “You can’t look at it and say, ‘This is just somebody venting,’ ” Lower Swatara Township Police Detective Robert Appleby told The Washington Post. “To go as long and hard as she did, you start to wonder if she was going to go any further.” A Pennsylvania Lottery representative said officials at the agency do not comment on pending cases.   Appleby said Shields seemed to believe that the lottery was conspiring against her — playing her numbers in other states where she didn’t play. He said she insisted that state lottery officials owed her money for the games she had lost because of that. “Most people know when they play the lottery, they’re not going to win,” Appleby said. “She seemed like she had a sense of entitlement — that she was supposed to win the lottery.” Police said in a statement that from April through December, Shields “repeatedly made death threats and harassed employees” at lottery headquarters. The 47-year-old allegedly called employees from “burner” phones and told them she had searched their names online and discovered where they lived. She also said she had hired “her boys” to kill them, police said. Play the newest instant games from the PA Lottery! https://t.co/y9SPRkBYZP  pic.twitter.com/dJdISQlCxU — Pennsylvania Lottery (@PALottery) December 27, 2016 By October, police said, the threats from Shields had become incessant. Police said she told state lottery employees that on Halloween, “somebody’s going to die,” according to PennLive.com . Appleby said he spoke with Shields on the phone early in the investigation and told her that she was breaking the law. But “she insisted it was freedom of speech,” the detective said. Appleby said Shields would talk to him briefly and then start cursing at him and calling him vulgar names before hanging up. He said she was upset, claiming she would play “hard” but never win. She also seemed to think authorities would not be able to find her because she was using burner phones, he said. “The things she was saying — we had to believe she meant it,” he said.   Appleby said it took time to identify Shields and determine where she was. She has been charged with three counts of terroristic threats, 25 counts of harassment and 25 counts of stalking. The detective said that “she definitely earned” all counts. Authorities said it seemed that Shields had become obsessed with Pennsylvania Lottery games, especially with the instant games, or scratch-off tickets, but they did not specify which ones. The detective said she would end her calls with the lotto catchphrase “Keep on scratchin’.” The Pennsylvania Lottery recorded $4.13 billion in sales in the fiscal year 2015-2016 — a state record, according to the agency . “The Lottery returned $1.12 billion in profits for fiscal year 2015-16, marking a new record and the fifth consecutive year that profits have surpassed $1.0 billion,” the agency reported, noting that it is one of the most profitable of the 45 state lotteries in America. Sorry, Powerball dreamers: There’s no such thing as a ‘lucky store’ A jackpot-rigging scandal is forgotten as Powerball fever sweeps the United States How Powerball manipulated the odds to create a $1.5 billion jackpot ‘We’re still in disbelief mode’: Breast cancer patient wins lottery — again

A Pennsylvania lottery player who kept buying losing scratch-off tickets called her string of losses a conspiracy and threatened to kill employees at state lottery headquarters, authorities said.

Towanda Shields (Lower Swatara Township Police Department)

Towanda A. Shields is wanted on 53 charges, including harassment, stalking and terroristic threats, for phone calls and voice-mail messages that police said started as a “nuisance” last year and escalated into a “relentless” stream of hostile, sexually explicit and threatening statements to Pennsylvania Lottery officials in Lower Swatara Township.

Police there issued a warrant for her arrest Tuesday and are working with authorities in Philadelphia, where Shields lives, to bring her into custody.

“You can’t look at it and say, ‘This is just somebody venting,’ ” Lower Swatara Township Police Detective Robert Appleby told The Washington Post. “To go as long and hard as she did, you start to wonder if she was going to go any further.”

A Pennsylvania Lottery representative said officials at the agency do not comment on pending cases.

[Seven charged in killing of Georgia lottery winner during home invasion]

Appleby said Shields seemed to believe that the lottery was conspiring against her — playing her numbers in other states where she didn’t play. He said she insisted that state lottery officials owed her money for the games she had lost because of that.

“Most people know when they play the lottery, they’re not going to win,” Appleby said. “She seemed like she had a sense of entitlement — that she was supposed to win the lottery.”

Police said in a statement that from April through December, Shields “repeatedly made death threats and harassed employees” at lottery headquarters.

The 47-year-old allegedly called employees from “burner” phones and told them she had searched their names online and discovered where they lived. She also said she had hired “her boys” to kill them, police said.

Play the newest instant games from the PA Lottery! https://t.co/y9SPRkBYZP pic.twitter.com/dJdISQlCxU — Pennsylvania Lottery (@PALottery) December 27, 2016

By October, police said, the threats from Shields had become incessant. Police said she told state lottery employees that on Halloween, “somebody’s going to die,” according to PennLive.com.

Appleby said he spoke with Shields on the phone early in the investigation and told her that she was breaking the law. But “she insisted it was freedom of speech,” the detective said.

Appleby said Shields would talk to him briefly and then start cursing at him and calling him vulgar names before hanging up. He said she was upset, claiming she would play “hard” but never win.

She also seemed to think authorities would not be able to find her because she was using burner phones, he said.

“The things she was saying — we had to believe she meant it,” he said.

[He won millions in the lottery. Then, feds say, he invested it in meth.]

Appleby said it took time to identify Shields and determine where she was. She has been charged with three counts of terroristic threats, 25 counts of harassment and 25 counts of stalking. The detective said that “she definitely earned” all counts.

Authorities said it seemed that Shields had become obsessed with Pennsylvania Lottery games, especially with the instant games, or scratch-off tickets, but they did not specify which ones.

The detective said she would end her calls with the lotto catchphrase “Keep on scratchin’.”

The Pennsylvania Lottery recorded $4.13 billion in sales in the fiscal year 2015-2016 — a state record, according to the agency.

“The Lottery returned $1.12 billion in profits for fiscal year 2015-16, marking a new record and the fifth consecutive year that profits have surpassed $1.0 billion,” the agency reported, noting that it is one of the most profitable of the 45 state lotteries in America.

Read more:

Sorry, Powerball dreamers: There’s no such thing as a ‘lucky store’

A jackpot-rigging scandal is forgotten as Powerball fever sweeps the United States

How Powerball manipulated the odds to create a $1.5 billion jackpot

‘We’re still in disbelief mode’: Breast cancer patient wins lottery — again