Suspect Sought in Shooting of U.S. Consular Officer in Guadalajara
Suspect Sought in Shooting of U.S. Consular Officer in Guadalajara 
Shares               A U.S. consular officer was shot outside the consulate in Guadalajara, Mexico, and the FBI is offering $20,000 for information leading to identification of the suspect, according to U.S. officials. The consulate posted videos and images of the incident on its Facebook page .   One video shows a man dressed in a blue T-shirt and pants standing by the entrance to the consulate parking garage, then pulling a gun when a car approaches the exit, firing the weapon and then running away. The State Department has not named the person who was shot, but the Mexico Attorney General's office identified him as Christopher Ashcraft. Local police said he was in stable condition. A State Department official said they are working with Mexican law enforcement on the case.  Shares                  Suspect Sought in Shooting of U.S. Consular Officer in Guadalajara   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Trump: Allow Those Into US Who 'Want to Love Our Country'   Why 97 Companies Are Opposing Trump's Travel Ban   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

A U.S. consular officer was shot outside the consulate in Guadalajara, Mexico, and the FBI is offering $20,000 for information leading to identification of the suspect, according to U.S. officials.

The consulate posted videos and images of the incident on its Facebook page.

One video shows a man dressed in a blue T-shirt and pants standing by the entrance to the consulate parking garage, then pulling a gun when a car approaches the exit, firing the weapon and then running away.

The State Department has not named the person who was shot, but the Mexico Attorney General's office identified him as Christopher Ashcraft. Local police said he was in stable condition.

A State Department official said they are working with Mexican law enforcement on the case.

This is a developing story. Check back for more.