The Kennedys Are Invested Alongside Donald Trump
The Kennedys Are Invested Alongside Donald Trump
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Dan Alexander       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr., is shown surrounded by his family. Clockwise, from bottom left: Robert, Eunice, John, Kathleen, Joe. Jr., Rosemary, wife Rose, Teddy, Patricia and Jean. (AP Photo) Republican president-elect Donald Trump is invested alongside America’s most famous Democratic family, the Kennedys, in marquee properties in New York and San Francisco. A product of happenstance rather than intention, the descendants of Joseph P. Kennedy ended up as partial owners of 1290 Avenue of the Americas in New York and 555 California Street in San Francisco, through a substantial stake they own in a publicly traded real estate investment trust named Vornado Realty Trust. Vornado owns 70% of the two buildings; Donald Trump owns the other 30%. “The fact that the Kennedys are invested in a publicly traded company that has a relationship with Donald Trump, is that the weirdest thing about the Trump transition?” said Christopher Kennedy, the son of Robert Kennedy. “No, that’s not the weirdest thing. That’s not the most disturbing thing. That’s not the most concerning thing.” The Kennedy family fortune, which FORBES estimated was worth $1 billion in 2014, predates the Great Depression. Joseph P. Kennedy, the father of President John F. Kennedy, got rich in the stock market and then went on to chair the Securities and Exchange Commission. After serving as ambassador to Great Britain, he bought Chicago’s Merchandise Mart in 1945 for a reported $13 million. Joe died in 1969, but his family held onto the Merchandise Mart for decades. In 1998, the Kennedys finally sold the Merchandise Mart and a handful of smaller properties to Vornado for $303 million. America’s first family cashed out $187 million but held onto $116 million worth of equity in Vornado, equal to an estimated 4% of the company at the time. Christopher Kennedy remained involved in Vornado for more than a decade, leading the company’s efforts to roll up a series of buildings and trade shows. In 2006, Donald Trump and a group of Chinese investors sold a patch of land on Manhattan’s Upper West Side for $1.76 billion, then invested the proceeds into two buildings, 1290 Avenue of the Americas in New York and 555 California Street in San Francisco. Trump owned 30% of each, and his Asian partners owned the other 70%. The next year, Trump held onto his 30% as his partners sold their stakes for $1.81 billion to Vornado Realty, in which the Kennedys were still major investors. Through a spate of dealmaking, Donald Trump wound up with a share of buildings in which the Kennedys also had stakes.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Republican president-elect Donald Trump is invested alongside America’s most famous Democratic family, the Kennedys, in marquee properties in New York and San Francisco.

A product of happenstance rather than intention, the descendants of Joseph P. Kennedy ended up as partial owners of 1290 Avenue of the Americas in New York and 555 California Street in San Francisco, through a substantial stake they own in a publicly traded real estate investment trust named Vornado Realty Trust. Vornado owns 70% of the two buildings; Donald Trump owns the other 30%.

“The fact that the Kennedys are invested in a publicly traded company that has a relationship with Donald Trump, is that the weirdest thing about the Trump transition?” said Christopher Kennedy, the son of Robert Kennedy. “No, that’s not the weirdest thing. That’s not the most disturbing thing. That’s not the most concerning thing.”

The Kennedy family fortune, which FORBES estimated was worth $1 billion in 2014, predates the Great Depression. Joseph P. Kennedy, the father of President John F. Kennedy, got rich in the stock market and then went on to chair the Securities and Exchange Commission. After serving as ambassador to Great Britain, he bought Chicago’s Merchandise Mart in 1945 for a reported $13 million.

Joe died in 1969, but his family held onto the Merchandise Mart for decades. In 1998, the Kennedys finally sold the Merchandise Mart and a handful of smaller properties to Vornado for $303 million.

America’s first family cashed out $187 million but held onto $116 million worth of equity in Vornado, equal to an estimated 4% of the company at the time. Christopher Kennedy remained involved in Vornado for more than a decade, leading the company’s efforts to roll up a series of buildings and trade shows.

In 2006, Donald Trump and a group of Chinese investors sold a patch of land on Manhattan’s Upper West Side for $1.76 billion, then invested the proceeds into two buildings, 1290 Avenue of the Americas in New York and 555 California Street in San Francisco. Trump owned 30% of each, and his Asian partners owned the other 70%. The next year, Trump held onto his 30% as his partners sold their stakes for $1.81 billion to Vornado Realty, in which the Kennedys were still major investors. Through a spate of dealmaking, Donald Trump wound up with a share of buildings in which the Kennedys also had stakes.