Iceberg the size of Delaware is 'hanging by a thread' in Antarctica
Iceberg the size of Delaware is 'hanging by a thread' in Antarctica


An massive iceberg is poised to break off from an ice shelf in Antarctica, scientists have revealed.

The Larsen C Ice Shelf is primed to lose an area of more than 1,900 square miles (5,000 square kilometres), after a rift in the ice shelf grew suddenly by around 11 miles (18 km) in the second half of December.

This makes it the size of Delaware or around a quarter the size of Wales.

Just 12 miles (20km) of ice now connects the vast iceberg to the rest of the shelf, according to researchers from the Midas project, which has been studying the stability of the Larsen C Ice Shelf for three years.

The Larsen C Ice Shelf is primed to lose an area of more than 1,900 square miles (5,000 square kilometres), after a rift in the ice shelf grew suddenly by around 11 miles (18 km) in the second half of December. Pictured is the view of a newly discovered 300-ft wide rift in the Larsen C

The rift is likely to lead to an iceberg breaking off, which will remove about 10 per cent of the ice shelf's area. Pictured is a graphic on how the rift has progressed over the years

A team of researchers last month flew over the gigantic crack in the ice and calculated it to be about 70 miles (112 kilometres) long, more than 90 metres (300 feet) wide and about a third of a mile (0.5 kilometres) deep.

WHAT HAPPENED TO LARSEN B? In 2002 a massive section of the Larsen B ice shelf disintegrated in just 32 days. The 656 feet (200m) thick ice sheet broke apart into thousands of ice bergs that gradually drifted away over several years In total 1,235 square miles of ice collapsed into the sea. It is thought increased ice flow from behind the ice shelf had weakened it and caused cracks to appear. Melt water flowing into these cracks acted as wedges that forced the ice shelf apart, causing it to shatter. About 625 square miles of Larsen B remains - an area roughly the size of Lake Superior and Lake Michigan combined.

'The crack completely cuts through the Ice Shelf but it does not go all the way across it – once it does, it will produce an iceberg roughly the size of the state of Delaware,' NASA said in a press release.

Lead researcher, Swansea University's Professor Adrian Luckman, said the iceberg was now 'hanging by a thread'.

When it calves off, the Larsen C Ice Shelf will lose more than 10 per cent of its area, fundamentally changing the landscape of the Antarctic Peninsula, and making the shelf less stable, the experts said.

The current event is not an ice shelf collapsing, but Larsen C may, in years or decades to come, follow the course of the Larsen B Ice Shelf which splintered and collapsed in the space of a month in 2002, they said.

Speaking to the BBC, Professor Luckman, said: 'If it doesn't go in the next few months, I'll be amazed.

'There hasn't been enough cloud-free Landsat images but we've managed to combine a pair of Esa Sentinel-1 radar images to notice this extension, and it's so close to calving that I think it's inevitable.'

Professor Luckman says that when the iceberg breaks off, it will be among the 10 biggest ever recorded.

The collapse of the Larsen B ice shelf on the east side of the Antarctic Peninsula in 2002 saw a 1,235 square miles (3,200 square km) section of ice break apart into thousands of icebergs in just 35 days.

The crack completely cuts through the Ice Shelf but it does not go all the way across it – once it does, it will produce an iceberg roughly the size of the state of Delaware or a quarter of the size of Wales

Map of Antarctica showing the amount of melting of ice shelves from below. Blue shades represent melt rates of greater than 5 meters per year. Arrow points to Larsen C Ice Shelf

Larsen B was thought to have been stable for up to 12,000 years, according to studies on the collapse, but had become a hotspot of global warming.

Previous studies had suggested that the ice shelf began melting only a few years before it disintegrated in 2002.

Rising summertime temperatures are thought to have increased the water flow into cracks which then acted like wedges to lever the ice shelf apart.

It sparked widespread concern about the impact that climate change is having on the ice sheet balance in Antarctica, although a recent study showed ice mass on the continent has actually increased.

The current event is not an ice shelf collapsing, but Larsen C may, in years or decades to come, follow the course of the Larsen B Ice Shelf which splintered and collapsed in the space of a month in 2002, they said. Pictured is the Larsen B Ice Shelf before its breakup in 2002

Over the course of a couple of months, a huge section of the Larsen B Ice Shelf completely disappeared after breaking up

The Larsen B ice shelf is thought to be one of the largest collapses of sea ice to have been witnessed. It lies off the east coast of the Antarctic Peninsula, which is thought to be a warming hotspot

ANTARCTICA IS GAINING ICE Antarctica is gaining more ice than it loses, research by Nasa last year found. It said Antarctica's ice sheet is thickening enough to outweigh increased losses caused by melting glaciers. The research challenges the conclusions of other studies, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report which says that Antarctica is losing land ice overall. But it also warns that losses could offset the gains in years to come. The increase in Antarctic snow began 10,000 years ago and continues in East Antarctica and the interior of West Antarctica by an average of 0.7 inches (1.7cm) per year, according to the space agency. Researchers analysed satellite data to demonstrate the Antarctic ice sheet showed a net gain of 112 billion tons of ice a year from 1992 to 2001. That net gain slowed to 82 billion tons of ice per year between 2003 and 2008.

The researchers say the acceleration of ice flow seen in the Larsen B ice shelf may be due to changes in the properties of the ice itself.

Melting may have caused the ice to become more plastic and increased the slipperiness of the ice behind the ice shelf, pushing it further out to sea.

The collapse of the Larsen Ice shelf in 2002, which is one of the biggest on record, is thought to have triggered further acceleration and thinning of the glaciers behind it.

There are now growing fears over the remaining section of the Larsen B ice shelf - which is around 625 square miles, and the large Larsen C ice shelf further to the south.

A recent study revealed that on the opposite side of the Antarctic Peninsula, more than 386 square miles of ice – an area the size of Berlin – has been lost in the past 40 years.

But elsewhere in the Antarctic, the ice sheet has been growing. Satellite data showed that the continent's vast ice sheet has showed a net gain of 112 billion tons of ice each year between 1992 and 2001.

However, between 2003 and 2008, that has slowed to 82 billion tons of ice per year.