Ed Sheeran Debated Giving Rihanna His New Song 'Shape of You'
Ed Sheeran Debated Giving Rihanna His New Song 'Shape of You'
Ed Sheeran Debated Giving Rihanna His New Song 'Shape of You'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  If you're one of the millions of Ed Sheeran fans listening to his new songs Friday morning (Jan. 6) and you happen to think of Rihanna while dancing to "Shape of You," you're not alone -- Sheeran did the same when he wrote it. In an interview with BBC Radio 1 Breakfast Show Friday, Sheeran revealed that he debated handing his bouncy new tune over to the Barbadian singer after he was done writing it. "['Shape of You'] is actually a really random one because I went in to write songs for other people with a guy called Steve Mac and Johnny McDaid, and we were writing this song and I was like 'this would really work for Rihanna,'" he explained. "And then I started singing lyrics like 'putting Van The Man on the jukebox' and I was like 'well she's not really going to sing that, is she?' And then we sort of decided halfway through that we were just going to make it for me." Imagine if @edsheeran had given Shape Of You to @rihanna ---- #R1Sheeran  pic.twitter.com/dZdCmN3ROl Although "Shape of You" was decidedly going to belong to Sheeran, he wasn't even planning on it being on the new album (for which he didn't reveal a release date during the interview). "This was the last song that was finished, and I just didn't put two and two together that this was even going to be on the album. I just kind of wrote it and was like 'oh, that was fun.'"  But once he brought the song to his label -- with Rudimental in mind this time -- they insisted he should record it for his own catalog. We couldn't agree more. Take a(nother) listen to "Shape of You" below:

Ed Sheeran Debated Giving Rihanna His New Song 'Shape of You'

If you're one of the millions of Ed Sheeran fans listening to his new songs Friday morning (Jan. 6) and you happen to think of Rihanna while dancing to "Shape of You," you're not alone -- Sheeran did the same when he wrote it.

In an interview with BBC Radio 1 Breakfast Show Friday, Sheeran revealed that he debated handing his bouncy new tune over to the Barbadian singer after he was done writing it.

"['Shape of You'] is actually a really random one because I went in to write songs for other people with a guy called Steve Mac and Johnny McDaid, and we were writing this song and I was like 'this would really work for Rihanna,'" he explained. "And then I started singing lyrics like 'putting Van The Man on the jukebox' and I was like 'well she's not really going to sing that, is she?' And then we sort of decided halfway through that we were just going to make it for me."

Although "Shape of You" was decidedly going to belong to Sheeran, he wasn't even planning on it being on the new album (for which he didn't reveal a release date during the interview). "This was the last song that was finished, and I just didn't put two and two together that this was even going to be on the album. I just kind of wrote it and was like 'oh, that was fun.'"

But once he brought the song to his label -- with Rudimental in mind this time -- they insisted he should record it for his own catalog. We couldn't agree more.

Take a(nother) listen to "Shape of You" below: