India A Vs England - The Game Where MS Dhoni Will Lead 'Men In Blue' For One Last Time
India A Vs England - The Game Where MS Dhoni Will Lead 'Men In Blue' For One Last Time
India A Vs England - The Game Where MS Dhoni Will Lead 'Men In Blue' For One Last Time Before Mahendra Singh Dhoni takes the field as a player in the upcoming ODI series against England and not a captain, he will lead Men in Blue for one last time. Yes, he will captain the India A side that takes on England in the first of the 2 one-day warm-up games to be played before the three-ODI series. Dhoni will lead the likes of Yuvraj Singh, Shikhar Dhawan, Ambati Rayudu, Ashish Nehra and Mohit Sharma in the India A side that takes on England on Janury 10 at Mumbai's Brabourne Stadium. Kohli Tells Dhoni, 'You'll Always Be My Captain' Yesterday, the BCCI national selectors named Virat Kohli the captain of India's ODI and T20 squads as Dhoni resigned as skipper on January 4. The warm-up game is the only practice match Dhoni gets to play ahead of the England series as the former India captain didn't get any domestic one-day games to prove his competitive match fitness. Yuvraj Returns To ODI squad After 3 Years The second warm-up, to be played at the same venue on January 12, will see India A being led by Ajinkya Rahane.

Before Mahendra Singh Dhoni takes the field as a player in the upcoming ODI series against England and not a captain, he will lead Men in Blue for one last time.

AP

Yes, he will captain the India A side that takes on England in the first of the 2 one-day warm-up games to be played before the three-ODI series.

Dhoni will lead the likes of Yuvraj Singh, Shikhar Dhawan, Ambati Rayudu, Ashish Nehra and Mohit Sharma in the India A side that takes on England on Janury 10 at Mumbai's Brabourne Stadium.

Yesterday, the BCCI national selectors named Virat Kohli the captain of India's ODI and T20 squads as Dhoni resigned as skipper on January 4.

AFP

The warm-up game is the only practice match Dhoni gets to play ahead of the England series as the former India captain didn't get any domestic one-day games to prove his competitive match fitness.

Here's the squad that Dhoni will lead in the first warm-up: Shikhar Dhawan, Mandeep Singh, Ambati Rayudu, Yuvraj Singh, MS Dhoni (capt), Hardik Pandya, Sanju Samson, Kuldeep Yadav, Yuzvendra Chahal, Ashish Nehra, Mohit Sharma, Siddharth Kaul.

Cricbuzz

The second warm-up, to be played at the same venue on January 12, will see India A being led by Ajinkya Rahane.

India A squad for 2nd warm-up: Rishabh Pant, Ajinkya Rahane (capt), Suresh Raina, Deepak Hooda, Ishan Kishan, Sheldon Jackson, Vijay Shankar, Shabaz Nadeem, Pervez Rasool, Vinay Kumar, Pradeep Sangwan, Ashok Dinda.