Adidas Lays Out Plans for 2017 Sneaker Collaborations
Adidas Lays Out Plans for 2017 Sneaker Collaborations
Originally published on Sole Collector How will Adidas follow up its yearlong string of Consortium World Tour collaborations from 2016 that spawned shoes like Solebox's Uncaged Ultra Boost and the Ronnie Fieg x Adidas Ultra Boost Mid ? By tapping its top-tier Consortium retailers once more for a series that brings shops together. The new program, called the Sneaker Exchange, asks retailers to team up with one another. Per Adidas, there will be one drop per month from the Sneaker Exchange for the duration of 2017 and models included will be both old and new. A press release promises that the first of these sneakers will release in January, so it shouldn't be too long before the brand reveals what's to come from the Adidas Sneaker Exchange. Sneaker stores Alife, A Man Maniere, Bodega, Colette, End, Foopatrol, Fruition, Invincible, Juice, Kith, NAKED, Overkill, Packer, SlamJam, Sneakerboy, Sneakersnstuff, Social Status, Solebox, UNDFTD, United Arrows & Sons, Starcow, and Wish will release collaborations via the Sneaker Exchange.

How will Adidas follow up its yearlong string of Consortium World Tour collaborations from 2016 that spawned shoes like Solebox's Uncaged Ultra Boost and the Ronnie Fieg x Adidas Ultra Boost Mid? By tapping its top-tier Consortium retailers once more for a series that brings shops together.

The new program, called the Sneaker Exchange, asks retailers to team up with one another. Per Adidas, there will be one drop per month from the Sneaker Exchange for the duration of 2017 and models included will be both old and new.

A press release promises that the first of these sneakers will release in January, so it shouldn't be too long before the brand reveals what's to come from the Adidas Sneaker Exchange.

Sneaker stores Alife, A Man Maniere, Bodega, Colette, End, Foopatrol, Fruition, Invincible, Juice, Kith, NAKED, Overkill, Packer, SlamJam, Sneakerboy, Sneakersnstuff, Social Status, Solebox, UNDFTD, United Arrows & Sons, Starcow, and Wish will release collaborations via the Sneaker Exchange.