Carrie Fisher's ashes placed in oversized Prozac pill urn, highlighting star's mental heath battle



Carrie Fisher's ashes placed in oversized Prozac pill urn, highlighting star's mental heath battle

Updated

Carrie Fisher, who has been laid to rest alongside her mother Debbie Reynolds, was adored by family, friends and fans for her gallows humour and frank talk about her struggles with mental illness.

What better home for her ashes then, her brother Todd Fisher and daughter Billie Lourd decided, than a porcelain urn in the shape of an oversized anti-depressant?

"Carrie's favourite possession was a giant Prozac pill that she bought many years ago," Todd Fisher said.

He made the comment as he left the private joint funeral at Forest Lawn in Hollywood Hills for his mother and sister.

"She loved it, and it was in her house, and Billie and I felt it was where she'd want to be," he said.

Carrie Fisher struggled for years with substance abuse before being diagnosed with bipolar disorder in the late 1990s.

In her later years, Fisher became an outspoken advocate for mental health, and was honoured by Harvard University last year with an Annual Outstanding Lifetime Award in Cultural Humanism for her activism.

Other than Carrie Fisher's cremation and unique urn, nearly no details were revealed about the ceremony, or about what form the two women's graves took.

They will have plenty of celebrity company at the sprawling, hillside cemetery just across the Los Angeles River from Warner Bros. and Disney studios, including Bette Davis, Lucille Ball, Dick Van Patten, Liberace and Florence Henderson.

The funeral came a day after the two actresses were eulogised by family and close friends at a private memorial service at their neighbouring homes in Coldwater Canyon.

Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds died one day apart. Fisher, who had suffered a medical emergency on December 23 on a flight from London, died on December 27 at the age of 60.

Reynolds died the next day at age 84.

Todd Fisher said he'll remember his mother and sister most for their resilience, and said both reminded him of Reynold's role in 1964's The Unsinkable Molly Brown.

"They were both Molly Browns of sorts," he said. "It's about a very strong woman. They were very, very strong women."

He added, "we have so much of them that was left behind, all my sister's words, and all the movies and all the things they created, and that's what we need to remember."

Now, the family plans a public memorial.

"We'll have a bigger service down the road for the public and all the family friends, but this was a private family service," Todd Fisher said. "It was fitting and it was beautiful."

AP

Topics: death, film-movies, film, united-states

First posted