Gorgeous iridescent umbrella tells you when it's supposed to rain
Gorgeous iridescent umbrella tells you when it's supposed to rain
LAS VEGAS — If you've amassed a collection of cheap umbrellas due to a year's worth of unexpected downpours, Oombrella could come as a welcome relief. The smart umbrella from French start-up Wezzoo works in tandem with an app to tell you when it's going to rain via a smartphone notification. And if you've already left home but are still close by, the umbrella might shoot a notification telling you to come back and grab it. The product — whose Kickstarter launch we covered back in March — was on display at 2017 International CES. SEE ALSO: The weirdest things we saw at CES 2016 Image:  wezzoo Oombrella works with Wezzoo's weather gathering app , a kind of crowdsourced app where users can share the weather in their area. That, in addition to other weather sources, determines when the app sends a notification reminding Oombrella owners to take theirs with them. Image:  Mashable Image:  mashable The Oombrella also has its own chip inside the handle, which senses temperature and humidity in the area. So when you're out in the world using your smart umbrella, the chip contributes weather data from your location to the Wezzoo app. This chip sits under a cap inside Oombrella's handle. Image:  mashable As a follow-up to Oombrella's successful Kickstarter campaign earlier this year, it's launched another crowdfunding campaign on IndieGoGo. After this campaign, they're officially launching online and in distributors in March. Wezzoo CEO Clément Guillot tells that the company is still tinkering with the weight and material of the umbrella, but should have a final version in the next two weeks. The umbrella comes in three shades — shiny, black and white — and will retail for $79. BONUS: 1 laptop, 3 4K screens, the ultimate gaming experience

LAS VEGAS — If you've amassed a collection of cheap umbrellas due to a year's worth of unexpected downpours, Oombrella could come as a welcome relief.

The smart umbrella from French start-up Wezzoo works in tandem with an app to tell you when it's going to rain via a smartphone notification. And if you've already left home but are still close by, the umbrella might shoot a notification telling you to come back and grab it. The product — whose Kickstarter launch we covered back in March — was on display at 2017 International CES.

SEE ALSO: The weirdest things we saw at CES 2016

Image: wezzoo

Oombrella works with Wezzoo's weather gathering app, a kind of crowdsourced app where users can share the weather in their area. That, in addition to other weather sources, determines when the app sends a notification reminding Oombrella owners to take theirs with them.

Image: Mashable

Image: mashable

The Oombrella also has its own chip inside the handle, which senses temperature and humidity in the area. So when you're out in the world using your smart umbrella, the chip contributes weather data from your location to the Wezzoo app.

This chip sits under a cap inside Oombrella's handle. Image: mashable

As a follow-up to Oombrella's successful Kickstarter campaign earlier this year, it's launched another crowdfunding campaign on IndieGoGo. After this campaign, they're officially launching online and in distributors in March.

Wezzoo CEO Clément Guillot tells Mashable that the company is still tinkering with the weight and material of the umbrella, but should have a final version in the next two weeks. The umbrella comes in three shades — shiny, black and white — and will retail for $79.