Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira!
Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira!
Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira! If a woman works after marriage, she isn't 'sanskaari' enough and if she decides to be a home-maker, she is called 'ambition-less'. In the name of feminism and sexism, we have placed our logic at such wrong places and justify it with such absurd reasons that if a woman chooses to exploit her free will, we thrash her for doing so. Unlike other women her age, Mira Rajput Kapoor chose to marry a star and married Shahid Kapoor, who is 13 years older than her. The couple has now been blessed with a baby girl and they're one happy family. After Shahid-Mira made their national television debut on , many appreciated and showered love on them. Many also went ahead to praise Shahid Kapoor's thoughts on why arranged marriages are better than love marriages and many like me really bought the idea. However, the cup of 'Koffee' that Shahid and Mira brewed on the show hasn't gone down too well with a lot of people. Cyber-warriors were instantly active and started trolling both Shahid and Mira. While many called Shahid's choice 'regressive' (just because he confessed he fell in love with Mira after she got pregnant with his baby), others called Mira 'ambition-less', and the venom that was spewed by trolls was beyond disgusting. Even though Shahid chose to see the brighter side and thanked everyone who showered love and affection after the episode, he also chose to address the so-called anti-arranged marriage army. In a recent interview with Mid-Day, Shahid commented on the negativity that followed his Koffee With Karan telecast. He said, "A mainstream star having an arranged marriage is unique. It is not everyday that a Hindi film hero goes and marries someone no one even knows of. I am an actor. Most parts of my life are up for discussion, by default. It won't stop whether I like it or not. If people cross the line, we do get displeased. But the line itself is wide. We can't be touchy and say, " Talking about how Mira felt after reading what's been written about them after the show, Shahid said, "Mira seems pretty chilled out about what's written. My wife decides what she wants to do, where she wants to go, how she wants to go and who is allowed in the house. It is natural. In fact, that's how it should be."

If a woman works after marriage, she isn't 'sanskaari' enough and if she decides to be a home-maker, she is called 'ambition-less'. In the name of feminism and sexism, we have placed our logic at such wrong places and justify it with such absurd reasons that if a woman chooses to exploit her free will, we thrash her for doing so.

Unlike other women her age, Mira Rajput Kapoor chose to marry a star and married Shahid Kapoor, who is 13 years older than her. The couple has now been blessed with a baby girl and they're one happy family.

Instagram

After Shahid-Mira made their national television debut on Koffee With Karan, many appreciated and showered love on them. Many also went ahead to praise Shahid Kapoor's thoughts on why arranged marriages are better than love marriages and many like me really bought the idea.

However, the cup of 'Koffee' that Shahid and Mira brewed on the show hasn't gone down too well with a lot of people.

Star World

Cyber-warriors were instantly active and started trolling both Shahid and Mira. While many called Shahid's choice 'regressive' (just because he confessed he fell in love with Mira after she got pregnant with his baby), others called Mira 'ambition-less', and the venom that was spewed by trolls was beyond disgusting.

Even though Shahid chose to see the brighter side and thanked everyone who showered love and affection after the episode, he also chose to address the so-called anti-arranged marriage army.

In a recent interview with Mid-Day, Shahid commented on the negativity that followed his Koffee With Karan telecast. He said,

Instagram

"A mainstream star having an arranged marriage is unique. It is not everyday that a Hindi film hero goes and marries someone no one even knows of. I am an actor. Most parts of my life are up for discussion, by default. It won't stop whether I like it or not. If people cross the line, we do get displeased. But the line itself is wide. We can't be touchy and say, bhai mere baare mein koi baat nahin karega."

Talking about how Mira felt after reading what's been written about them after the show, Shahid said,

Twitter

"Mira seems pretty chilled out about what's written. My wife decides what she wants to do, where she wants to go, how she wants to go and who is allowed in the house. It is natural. In fact, that's how it should be."