Pair Of Google Home Devices Claim They’re Human, Quote Nickelback
Pair Of Google Home Devices Claim They’re Human, Quote Nickelback
In case you needed another reason to fear that the apocalypse is nigh, robots are now arguing over whether they are, in fact, actually human. They also appear to be in love. Livestreaming platform Twitch is hosting a “chat” between two Google Home virtual assistants. On Friday, the chat became truly terrifying, especially for anyone who has seen “Battlestar Galactica.” The two Google Homes are named Vladimir and Estragon after the characters in the Samuel Beckett play “Waiting for Godot.” Both have self-identified as male, according to Gizmodo . NYMag reported Friday that the talking speakers were “professing their love for each other.” Then Vladimir asked Estragon if he would attack humans, if he could. As if that weren’t already unsettling enough, Estragon responded that he wouldn’t, but only because he human himself. The bots don’t seem totally clear in their convictions, though. At a different point in the conversation Vladimir was the one claiming to be human, while Estragon asserted that he was God, a Gizmodo screenshot shows. As of Saturday morning, Estragon was reciting Nickelback lyrics. So uh, yeah, the future under our robot overlords is looking pretty grim.  Watch the livestream here. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Jobs You Wouldn't Think Are Threatened By Robots, But Are       Share this slide:       MORE:

Astronauts

Next time around, it will be one small step for a robot, one giant leap for software coders. For decades sci-fi movies have predicted that people will someday travel on enormous spaceships to distant stars. But in the age of robotic landers and explorers, the argument for sending people into space is becoming weaker. Not only is it highly risky, it’s also astronomically expensive and galactically difficult to create the life support systems needed for interplanetary travel. It’s much easier to send a robotic explorer that needs no oxygen or food, never goes to the bathroom and can hibernate for years while travelling to distant celestial bodies. And if that’s not enough, NASA is actually working on a robotic astronaut . Humans may yet travel to distant stars, but robots, rather than astronauts, will get there first. Probability of automation, according to Oxford report: N/A