What the Rules Are on Flying With a Gun
What the Rules Are on Flying With a Gun
Shares               Today's shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport has many asking whether it's legal to travel with a firearm after it was reported that the suspected gunman checked his weapon in his baggage. Carnage broke out today at the Florida airport when a gunman opened fire at a baggage claim area, killing five people, according to the Broward County Sheriff's Office. Senior officials confirm that the suspected shooter, identified by authorities as Esteban Santiago, flew into the airport today from Anchorage via Minneapolis. The gun was checked in Santiago's luggage, a source familiar with the investigation told ABC News. What many may not be aware of is that flying with a firearm is allowed -- as long as proper procedure is followed. The traveler must also make sure to comply with any local, state or international laws concerning possession, according to the Transportation Security Administration .       There are steps one must take to properly store his or her firearm in his or her checked luggage. First, the firearm must be unloaded and stored in a locked, hard-sided container that cannot be easily accessed. Only the passenger should retain the key or combination to the lock. The traveler then needs to declare the firearm or ammunition to the airline at the ticket counter. Firearm parts, ammunition and replica firearms may only be transported in checked luggage. Flying with firearms is not new and people do it legally and safely every day. However, many travelers appear to misunderstand the rules when it comes to stowing firearms in carry-ons. Attempting to go through security and board an aircraft with a firearm, loaded or unloaded, is illegal and you will be arrested. And yet, it happens every day. During the first eight months of 2016, the TSA has discovered more than 2,150 firearms in passengers’ carry-ons nationwide during routine screening of personal property at security checkpoints. “Every day at airports across the country, TSA officers detect firearms -- many of them loaded -- during the security checkpoint screening process,” said Cliff Van Leuven, TSA federal security director for Minnesota. “Passengers are allowed to travel with firearms, but it is important that certain procedures are followed to ensure it is done legally.” You can learn about how to safely and legally stow your firearm when you fly at this link . Shares                  What the Rules Are on Flying With a Gun   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Trump: Allow Those Into US Who 'Want to Love Our Country'   Why 97 Companies Are Opposing Trump's Travel Ban   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

Today's shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport has many asking whether it's legal to travel with a firearm after it was reported that the suspected gunman checked his weapon in his baggage.

Carnage broke out today at the Florida airport when a gunman opened fire at a baggage claim area, killing five people, according to the Broward County Sheriff's Office. Senior officials confirm that the suspected shooter, identified by authorities as Esteban Santiago, flew into the airport today from Anchorage via Minneapolis. The gun was checked in Santiago's luggage, a source familiar with the investigation told ABC News.

What many may not be aware of is that flying with a firearm is allowed -- as long as proper procedure is followed. The traveler must also make sure to comply with any local, state or international laws concerning possession, according to the Transportation Security Administration.

There are steps one must take to properly store his or her firearm in his or her checked luggage. First, the firearm must be unloaded and stored in a locked, hard-sided container that cannot be easily accessed. Only the passenger should retain the key or combination to the lock.

The traveler then needs to declare the firearm or ammunition to the airline at the ticket counter. Firearm parts, ammunition and replica firearms may only be transported in checked luggage.

Flying with firearms is not new and people do it legally and safely every day. However, many travelers appear to misunderstand the rules when it comes to stowing firearms in carry-ons. Attempting to go through security and board an aircraft with a firearm, loaded or unloaded, is illegal and you will be arrested.

And yet, it happens every day. During the first eight months of 2016, the TSA has discovered more than 2,150 firearms in passengers’ carry-ons nationwide during routine screening of personal property at security checkpoints.

“Every day at airports across the country, TSA officers detect firearms -- many of them loaded

-- during the security checkpoint screening process,” said Cliff Van Leuven, TSA federal security director for Minnesota. “Passengers are allowed to travel with firearms, but it is important that certain procedures are followed to ensure it is done legally.”

You can learn about how to safely and legally stow your firearm when you fly at this link.