Here's why you'll be seeing pink 'pussyhats' during the Women's March on Washington
Here's why you'll be seeing pink 'pussyhats' during the Women's March on Washington
When packing for the Women's March on Washington , don't forget your knitting needles and bright pink yarn. They are, after all, unexpected essentials. An innovative form of "craftivism" is going viral in the final weeks leading up to the Jan. 21 march in protest of President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration. The aim? Outfit every single one of the projected 200,000 protesters at the Women's March on Washington in pink "pussyhats." SEE ALSO: 'P*ssy grabbing' threats are now a thing in Trump's America The Pussyhat Project — a clear reference to Trump's infamous " grab her by the pussy " comment — provides simple patterns to guide march attendees and supporters in knitting , crocheting or sewing bright pink "pussyhats." The result is a simple hat with two peaks on top, resembling cat ears. Me-yow to @nerdiyogi, her friend, and her #pussyhat! 💖 A photo posted by Pussyhat Project (@p_ssyhatproject) on The effort, launched in late November by activists Krista Suh and Jayna Zweiman, is a way to visually unite attendees of the march, according to the organizers. Yet, the hats also serve as a stark reminder of why women will gather on Washington for the march: to defend equal rights and protest their freshly minted president's undeniable sexism . The project — and the hats — are just the latest example of women reclaiming the term "pussy" in the aftermath of Trump's leaked comments. Phrases using the derogatory term, including " pussy grabs back ," have been a source of empowerment for some women in the aftermath of Trump's election. Another pussyhat! #pussyhatproject #womensmarchonwashington @p_ssyhatproject A photo posted by Arlyn Bantog-VanDooyeweert (@ar_pnutgallery) on Suh and Zweiman tell that they have no exact estimate of the number of hats created so far, but guess anywhere between 30,000 to 100,0000 have been crafted. More than 60,000 people have clicked on the “Patterns” section of the Pussyhat Project website. The co-organizers say they have heard from women around the country who say crafting the hats has been a helpful way to work through election-related anger and grief. First hat done! Second hat on the needles! #pussyhatproject #noemade #womensmarchonwashington #knitting #knittersofinstagram #feelthebern #knit #feminism #equality A photo posted by Heather Noe (@noemadecrafts) on Suh and Zweiman are requesting that hats made by those not attending the march arrive at their collection point in Virginia by Jan. 14 to give volunteers time for processing prior to distribution on the day of the march. The co-organizers are also encouraging crafters attending the march to make and distribute their own hats to help outfit the crowd. spending today makin cute lil hats for the kickass women who are going to the women's march on Washington 💕✨🌸😽🎀 #pussyhatproject A photo posted by ell (@ellensims) on An essential component of the project, according to Suh and Zweiman, is to allow people who cannot make it to Washington D.C. to show their support and solidarity from afar. The co-organizers hope supporters around the nation will wear pink hats on Jan. 21 to stand up for equality and women's rights. According to , Suh and Zweiman's main hope for the viral project is to make the momentum last. “We hope," Suh said, "these hats will become a symbol long after the march." BONUS: Watch this little girl bravely share her truth at an anti-Trump rally

When packing for the Women's March on Washington, don't forget your knitting needles and bright pink yarn. They are, after all, unexpected essentials.

An innovative form of "craftivism" is going viral in the final weeks leading up to the Jan. 21 march in protest of President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration. The aim? Outfit every single one of the projected 200,000 protesters at the Women's March on Washington in pink "pussyhats."

The Pussyhat Project — a clear reference to Trump's infamous "grab her by the pussy" comment — provides simple patterns to guide march attendees and supporters in knitting, crocheting or sewing bright pink "pussyhats." The result is a simple hat with two peaks on top, resembling cat ears.

Me-yow to @nerdiyogi, her friend, and her #pussyhat! 💖 A photo posted by Pussyhat Project (@p_ssyhatproject) on Dec 20, 2016 at 7:30am PST

The effort, launched in late November by activists Krista Suh and Jayna Zweiman, is a way to visually unite attendees of the march, according to the organizers. Yet, the hats also serve as a stark reminder of why women will gather on Washington for the march: to defend equal rights and protest their freshly minted president's undeniable sexism.

The project — and the hats — are just the latest example of women reclaiming the term "pussy" in the aftermath of Trump's leaked comments. Phrases using the derogatory term, including "pussy grabs back," have been a source of empowerment for some women in the aftermath of Trump's election.

Another pussyhat! #pussyhatproject #womensmarchonwashington @p_ssyhatproject A photo posted by Arlyn Bantog-VanDooyeweert (@ar_pnutgallery) on Jan 6, 2017 at 10:36pm PST

Suh and Zweiman tell The Huffington Post that they have no exact estimate of the number of hats created so far, but guess anywhere between 30,000 to 100,0000 have been crafted. More than 60,000 people have clicked on the “Patterns” section of the Pussyhat Project website.

The co-organizers say they have heard from women around the country who say crafting the hats has been a helpful way to work through election-related anger and grief.

Suh and Zweiman are requesting that hats made by those not attending the march arrive at their collection point in Virginia by Jan. 14 to give volunteers time for processing prior to distribution on the day of the march. The co-organizers are also encouraging crafters attending the march to make and distribute their own hats to help outfit the crowd.

spending today makin cute lil hats for the kickass women who are going to the women's march on Washington 💕✨🌸😽🎀 #pussyhatproject A photo posted by ell (@ellensims) on Jan 6, 2017 at 2:11pm PST

An essential component of the project, according to Suh and Zweiman, is to allow people who cannot make it to Washington D.C. to show their support and solidarity from afar. The co-organizers hope supporters around the nation will wear pink hats on Jan. 21 to stand up for equality and women's rights.

According to The Huffington Post, Suh and Zweiman's main hope for the viral project is to make the momentum last.

“We hope," Suh said, "these hats will become a symbol long after the march."