Barack Obama to reflect on 'this amazing journey' in final speech - and offer some advice to Donald Trump
Barack Obama to reflect on 'this amazing journey' in final speech - and offer some advice to Donald Trump 
t was a guest list that would bring tears to Donald Trump’s eyes. From Oscar-winning actors and directors to legends of the music industry, sporting stars and bright young things – everyone wanted to be at the White House on Friday night. Paul McCartney and Meryl Streep, George and Amal Clooney, Robert De Niro, Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, Stevie Wonder, Magic Johnson, Bruce Springsteen and Beyonce – all queued patiently to be allowed beyond the velvet rope. “We are going to have a big party before we leave office,” said President Barack Obama , interviewed for People magazine last month by a young child. “But I’ll be honest with you - it’s going to be after your bed time.” nd the party was just the beginning of a farewell week which will see him, on Tuesday, deliver his final speech as president – returning to his home town of Chicago for what promises to be an emotional goodbye. From before dawn on Saturday queues stretched around the block as people lined up in subzero temperatures to secure one of the free tickets to hear Mr Obama speak. His address is expected to reflect on what he termed “this amazing journey”. But he also, in an email published to outline his plans for the speech, promised “to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here”. Mr Trump’s reaction will be watched interest – the president-elect is already smarting from the lengthy list of rejections of invitations to perform at his inauguration. ndrea Bocelli, Elton John and Celine Dion have all said no , while Rebecca Ferguson, a former X Factor contestant, said she’d only do it if she could perform the anti-racism protest song Strange Fruit, famously sung by Billie Holiday. “Creative people tend to reject bigotry and hate,” said John Legend. “We tend to be more liberal-minded. When we see somebody that’s preaching division and hate and bigotry, it’s unlikely he’ll get a lot of creative people that want to be associated with him.” The manager of Texan county band The Dixie Chicks, Simon Renshaw, said: “If anyone does do it, I hope that the cheque that they get is in the nine figures. Because it’s probably the last check they’re ever going to get. No one is prepared to normalise what is going on in the country right now.” he one person who has agreed is little-known Jackie Evancho, a 16-year-old who finished second on America’s Got Talent in 2010. The Rockettes dance troop and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir have also been contracted to perform. Idina Menzel, the Oscar-winning mezzo-soprano, said: “I think it’s karma, baby. Maybe he’ll just have to sing something himself. He probably thinks he has a great voice; he thinks he does everything great.” Mr Obama is expected on Tuesday to emphasise his economic legacy and social progress, highlighting for instance legalising gay marriage. He will probably dwell on the Iran deal, and normalising ties with Cuba. Whether he chooses to touch on the highly-contentious issues of his final weeks – Russian hacking, Obamacare, Mr Trump’s twitter outbursts , Chicago’s worst year for gun violence in almost 20 years – remains to be seen. The hashtag for the event is being promoted as “Yes We Can” – a symbol, touched on by Michelle Obama in her final speech on Friday – that the Obamas want to leave a legacy of hope and positivity, despite the despair felt by their supporters. “I'm just beginning to write my remarks,” Mr Obama said last week. “But I'm thinking about them as a chance to say thank you for this amazing journey, to celebrate the ways you've changed this country for the better these past eight years, and to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here. “Since 2009, we've faced our fair share of challenges, and come through them stronger. That's because we have never let go of a belief that has guided us ever since our founding - our conviction that, together, we can change this country for the better.”

“We are going to have a big party before we leave office,” said President Barack Obama, interviewed for People magazine last month by a young child. “But I’ll be honest with you - it’s going to be after your bed time.”

And the party was just the beginning of a farewell week which will see him, on Tuesday, deliver his final speech as president – returning to his home town of Chicago for what promises to be an emotional goodbye.

From before dawn on Saturday queues stretched around the block as people lined up in subzero temperatures to secure one of the free tickets to hear Mr Obama speak.

His address is expected to reflect on what he termed “this amazing journey”. But he also, in an email published to outline his plans for the speech, promised “to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here”.

Mr Trump’s reaction will be watched interest – the president-elect is already smarting from the lengthy list of rejections of invitations to perform at his inauguration.