British great-grandmother among Florida airport shooting victims
British great-grandmother among Florida airport shooting victims
British great-grandmother was one of five people gunned down by a former US soldier at a Florida airport. Olga Woltering, 84, was one of first killed in the mass shooting at the transport hub in Fort Lauderdale on Friday night. Mrs Woltering, originally from Ipswich, Suffolk, lived in Atlanta with her husband Ralph, a former US Air Force serviceman. The couple had travelled from their home in Georgia to go on a cruise to celebrate her husband's 90th birthday. Mrs Woltering, who leaves behind four children, Michael, Debbie, Tim and Gary, had changed her flights to travel a day earlier due to an ice storm where they lived. She had moved to the US in  1955, previously she lived in Ipswich and attended Priory Heath Secondary School. The pair met during the Second World War when her husband was stationed in Suffolk. er sister Hazel Roosa, 82, from Ipswich but now living in New York, said the couple were together when it happened, adding: “It’s devastating. We are grief-stricken. It was violent and unnecessary." The Catholic Church of the Transfiguration in Cobb County, Georgia, which Mr Woltering had been a member of since 1978, said she was "so charming, calling everybody 'Lovey' or 'Love' in her unmistakable British accent". Father Fernando Molina-Restrepo said: "Olga was one of the most joyful, loving, caring and committed people I have ever met. This is a horrible tragedy for everyone here at Transfiguration, especially because Olga was so loved. "Olga and Ralph have been members of our Transfiguration Family since October 1978. "May God give consolation to all of the victims of this tragedy and may God give eternal rest to those who died. Especially to our beloved Olga. Peace." steban Santiago , 26, a former National Guard soldier from Alaska and an Iraq War veteran, is accused of carrying out the bloody killing, which also left six people injured. Friends who attended church with Mrs Woltering spoke of their shock and horror at her killing on social media. erry De Varennes wrote: "Tragedy hit too close to home today. Transfiguration Church lost a very loving and caring woman in the Ft Lauderdale airport attack. Prayers lifted up for the soul of Olga Woltering and her family. Prayers also lifted up for a crazy and cruel world." Virginia Moran added: "So very sad, Olga's ever present smile was infectious and brightened any day, she will be deeply missed and my prayers are with Ralph, her family, all those she touched, and all who were impacted by yesterday's senseless action." iane Friesen said: "Dear Ralph, wish there was something we could do to take away your pain. Olga was loved so much. Our hearts are broken. "I'll always remember how she would say in her English accent, 'hello love'." New Jersey-born Santiago was charged on Saturday with causing an act of violence at an airport, using a firearm during a crime of violence and causing the death of a person through the use of a firearm. The FBI said on Saturday that they had not ruled out the possibility of terrorist links, and believed he had planned the attack, in which he shot 13 people seemingly at random. Santiago is now known to have arrived in Florida from Alaska, legally transporting a 9mm semi-automatic hand gun in his luggage, which he declared to the airline – following correct procedures. antiago, who was presented with a medal for his service in Iraq from 2010-11, had a concealed-carry permit. And as a military veteran he would easily have passed a background check – especially in Alaska, where he lived, which is a famed shooting, gun-loving state. Police in Alaska said on Saturday they had taken a gun from him late last year after he underwent a mental health evaluation but had returned it to him. nchorage Police Chief Christopher Tolley said it was not immediately clear if it was the same gun used in Friday's deadly rampage in Fort Lauderdale. Officials told a news conference the gun was returned to the suspect because the Iraq war veteran had not committed a crime. Santiago was sent for a mental evaluation after telling Federal Bureau of Investigation agents he heard voices and thought he was being controlled by a U.S. intelligence agency.

A British great-grandmother was one of five people gunned down by a former US soldier at a Florida airport.

Olga Woltering, 84, was one of first killed in the mass shooting at the transport hub in Fort Lauderdale on Friday night.

Mrs Woltering, originally from Ipswich, Suffolk, lived in Atlanta with her husband Ralph, a former US Air Force serviceman.

The couple had travelled from their home in Georgia to go on a cruise to celebrate her husband's 90th birthday.

Mrs Woltering, who leaves behind four children, Michael, Debbie, Tim and Gary, had changed her flights to travel a day earlier due to an ice storm where they lived.

She had moved to the US in 1955, previously she lived in Ipswich and attended Priory Heath Secondary School.

The pair met during the Second World War when her husband was stationed in Suffolk.