Europe's harsh winter blamed for more than a dozen deaths in three countries



Europe's harsh winter blamed for more than a dozen deaths in three countries

Updated

Heavy snowfall and below-freezing temperatures have swept across Europe causing more than a dozen deaths, as well as grounding flights and crippling ferries in Italy and Turkey.

Key points: Officials report at least 17 weather-related deaths in three countries

Poland experiencing temperatures below - 20 degrees Celsius

Turkey, Greece, Belgium also hit by the cold snap

The cold conditions in Poland have killed at least 10 people in the past few days, according to officials who said temperatures in some areas had dropped below -20 degrees Celsius on Saturday.

In Belgium, one man died when his truck slid off a highway.

Sub-freezing temperatures in Italy were blamed for the deaths of a half-dozen homeless people, while heavy snow and high winds resulted in re-routed flights, delayed ferries, cancelled trains and closed roads, media reported.

With no indications of a let up, some schools were ordered to stay closed on Monday in southern Italy, because of snow up to one metre high, the ANSA news agency reported.

The chill did not spare sunny Rome either, with the fountains in St Peter's Square freezing over.

Temperatures dropped to -7 degrees in Greece's second largest city of Thessaloniki, and -10 degrees was expected on Sunday, according to the Norwegian Meteorological Institute.

Several Greek islands, otherwise known for their sunny and warm weather, were blanketed in snow with freezing temperatures.

Heavy snow covered the Moria refugee and migrant camp on the Greek island of Lesbos.

One of the camp's residents captured footage, which was passed to an aid worker, showing the snow-covered tents that continue to provide shelter for some of the migrants stranded in Moria.

The man told the aid worker his tent had been destroyed and that he had never been that cold in his life.

Heavy snow crippled Istanbul and national carrier Turkish Airlines cancelled more than 650 flights.

The state-run Anadolu news agency reported that even the Bosphorus Strait running through Turkey's largest city was closed with ferries being halted.

Britain has missed out on the cold and snow, sporting its usual grey cloudy skies and temperatures of 10 degrees Celsius.

AP

Topics: weather, health, poland, italy, belgium, turkey, greece, european-union

First posted