WATCH: Chuck Woolery Slams Hollywood Over New Anti-Trump Ad

WATCH: Chuck Woolery Slams Hollywood Over New Anti-Trump Ad // // // // // Game show host Chuck Woolery sounded off on his fellow Hollywood actors' latest public service advertisement demanding that Congressional Democrats oppose President-elect Donald Trump. "They still don't believe in the electoral college because they still don't understand it," Woolery said, "We are a Constitutional Republic, not a democracy." In the ad, actors including Keegan Michael Key, Sally Field, Steve Buscemi and Jeffrey Wright implore legislators to protect their "core values as diverse Americans." Woolery asked why anyone would take advice from people who "pretend to be other people for a living." You couldn't find a group outside of an insane asylum more detached from reality than actors, he said. He said that such ads, like a previous one starring Martin Sheen, are trying to "boost" leaders like Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to oppose Trump, but remarked that such staunch adversaries of the president-elect don't need much goading. "[They] don't have to work too hard at it," he said, "They've tried every angle in the book [to delegitimize Trump]." What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Hannity: Democrats' Gross Negligence Enabled Russian Hacking

Conway: No Evidence That Russian Hacking Affected Election Result

WATCH: Megyn Kelly Signs Off 'The Kelly File' for the Final Time

Game show host Chuck Woolery sounded off on his fellow Hollywood actors' latest public service advertisement demanding that Congressional Democrats oppose President-elect Donald Trump.

"They still don't believe in the electoral college because they still don't understand it," Woolery said, "We are a Constitutional Republic, not a democracy."

In the ad, actors including Keegan Michael Key, Sally Field, Steve Buscemi and Jeffrey Wright implore legislators to protect their "core values as diverse Americans."

Woolery asked why anyone would take advice from people who "pretend to be other people for a living."

You couldn't find a group outside of an insane asylum more detached from reality than actors, he said.

He said that such ads, like a previous one starring Martin Sheen, are trying to "boost" leaders like Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to oppose Trump, but remarked that such staunch adversaries of the president-elect don't need much goading.

"[They] don't have to work too hard at it," he said, "They've tried every angle in the book [to delegitimize Trump]."

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Tucker Slams Dems' 'Entirely Partisan' Calls to Probe Russia's Election Meddling

Krauthammer: Democrats' Efforts to Change Election Outcome Are 'Pathetic'

Brother of Ft. Lauderdale Suspect Says He Received Psychological Treatment