Charles Schwab AdvisorVoice: How To Find The Type Of Money Advisor You Need
Charles Schwab AdvisorVoice: How To Find The Type Of Money Advisor You Need
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Charles Schwab Advisor       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The world of financial advisors can be a confusing one. Just look at all the different designations in the field. There’s the CFP ( certified financial planner ), who can offer advice to individuals focused on their futures. There’s the CFA ( certified financial analyst ), who can provide insights into specific investing strategies. There’s the CPA ( certified public accountant ), who can play a major role at tax time. And that’s not all. So what kind of advisor do you need? It all depends on your situation and needs. Here’s an overview of how different advisors, with different capabilities, can help a variety of clients. Say you’re an employee with a 401(k), but you’ve also got an individual retirement account (IRA) and a small portfolio of mutual funds. You don’t own a business, and you don’t have a complicated tax situation. You’ll want to find an advisor who can take a holistic approach to considering an individual’s financial life and outlook. This is someone who can help with assessing cash flow, retirement planning, estate planning, investing and insurance. However, you shouldn’t hire just any holistically minded advisor. Take the time to interview at least three candidates. You want to find someone who has an established record of focusing on clients’ best interests. Greg Sullivan, president and CEO of Sullivan Bruyette Speros & Blayney , a wealth advisory group in McLean, Virginia, says you should “initiate and work through an interview process” with any potential advisor. “Ask what they think about your individual circumstances,” he said. “Ask how they handle changes in life plans.” You might even ask what financial publications they read, he added. If you’re a small-business owner, you will have myriad concerns that affect your choice of an advisor, including retirement strategies for you and your employees, employee benefits programs, and tax projections and management. Sullivan recommends that you consider finding advisors who can cover three key needs. One should address tax matters. Another can advise on company valuations and investment holdings. A third should take a more comprehensive approach, examining retirement and benefits issues as well as your individual needs as the business owner. When picking the tax-focused advisor, look for someone “who also thinks like an entrepreneur and can understand the risks business owners take,” Sullivan said. An effective investing advisor not only has the ability to drill down into your securities holdings, but can also closely analyze your business’s benchmarks. A single advisor can, indeed, play all three roles. But, typically, as a small-business owner you’ll seek these capabilities in a team of several advisors. Most high-net-worth individuals and C-suite executives have two things in common: a distinct lack of time and complex finances. “Such individuals often need a single ‘quarterback’ because they don’t want to have to coordinate with three or four people to get things done,” Sullivan said. An advisor who applies a holistic approach — such as an independent RIA ( registered investment advisor ) — can take on that quarterback role and become the point person for a group of additional advisors. Under this model, a tax-specific advisor would then handle all tax and compliance matters and tax strategy, while also providing support on tax concerns relating to concentrated stocks — that is, holdings in one company that make up a significant part of an investor’s portfolio. Additionally, an investing-focused advisor would step in as the investment “sleuth,” evaluating allocations and overall risk within the portfolio, and recommending any moves to rebalance holdings or help reduce risk. Individuals preparing for — or who are already in — retirement should follow a golden rule: Do not outlive your wealth. They also are likely to wrestle with questions about the timing of IRA distributions, allocations of wealth, and Social Security and Medicare filings. The situation calls for an advisor who has an established record of specializing in the ever-changing landscape of retirement. “This advisor will have to know how to look closely at cash needs and asset location concerns, and then look down the road to see retiree-specific tax matters well beyond the current year,” Sullivan said. A fiduciary is legally required to act always in the client’s best interests. That means, among other things, minimizing costs. Financial advisors who aren’t true fiduciaries can follow the suitability rule , which allows them to give advice suitable to the client’s best interests. That’s fine, but you won’t lose in this case by taking the safest route possible. Whatever sort of advisor you hire, with whatever designation, “always go with a true fiduciary, who always puts your interests first,” Sullivan said.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Scott Bowen

The world of financial advisors can be a confusing one. Just look at all the different designations in the field. There’s the CFP (certified financial planner), who can offer advice to individuals focused on their futures. There’s the CFA (certified financial analyst), who can provide insights into specific investing strategies. There’s the CPA (certified public accountant), who can play a major role at tax time. And that’s not all.

So what kind of advisor do you need? It all depends on your situation and needs.

Here’s an overview of how different advisors, with different capabilities, can help a variety of clients.

Individual Investors: Seeking A Holistic Approach

Say you’re an employee with a 401(k), but you’ve also got an individual retirement account (IRA) and a small portfolio of mutual funds. You don’t own a business, and you don’t have a complicated tax situation.

You’ll want to find an advisor who can take a holistic approach to considering an individual’s financial life and outlook. This is someone who can help with assessing cash flow, retirement planning, estate planning, investing and insurance.

However, you shouldn’t hire just any holistically minded advisor. Take the time to interview at least three candidates. You want to find someone who has an established record of focusing on clients’ best interests.

Greg Sullivan, president and CEO of Sullivan Bruyette Speros & Blayney, a wealth advisory group in McLean, Virginia, says you should “initiate and work through an interview process” with any potential advisor.

“Ask what they think about your individual circumstances,” he said. “Ask how they handle changes in life plans.” You might even ask what financial publications they read, he added.

Small-Business Owners: Assembling An Advisor Team

If you’re a small-business owner, you will have myriad concerns that affect your choice of an advisor, including retirement strategies for you and your employees, employee benefits programs, and tax projections and management.

Sullivan recommends that you consider finding advisors who can cover three key needs. One should address tax matters. Another can advise on company valuations and investment holdings. A third should take a more comprehensive approach, examining retirement and benefits issues as well as your individual needs as the business owner.

When picking the tax-focused advisor, look for someone “who also thinks like an entrepreneur and can understand the risks business owners take,” Sullivan said.

An effective investing advisor not only has the ability to drill down into your securities holdings, but can also closely analyze your business’s benchmarks.

A single advisor can, indeed, play all three roles. But, typically, as a small-business owner you’ll seek these capabilities in a team of several advisors.

High-Net-Worth Individuals: Finding Your Quarterback

Most high-net-worth individuals and C-suite executives have two things in common: a distinct lack of time and complex finances.

“Such individuals often need a single ‘quarterback’ because they don’t want to have to coordinate with three or four people to get things done,” Sullivan said.

An advisor who applies a holistic approach — such as an independent RIA (registered investment advisor) — can take on that quarterback role and become the point person for a group of additional advisors.

Under this model, a tax-specific advisor would then handle all tax and compliance matters and tax strategy, while also providing support on tax concerns relating to concentrated stocks — that is, holdings in one company that make up a significant part of an investor’s portfolio.

Additionally, an investing-focused advisor would step in as the investment “sleuth,” evaluating allocations and overall risk within the portfolio, and recommending any moves to rebalance holdings or help reduce risk.

Near Or In Retirement: Accessing An In-Depth Retirement Planner

Individuals preparing for — or who are already in — retirement should follow a golden rule: Do not outlive your wealth.

They also are likely to wrestle with questions about the timing of IRA distributions, allocations of wealth, and Social Security and Medicare filings.

The situation calls for an advisor who has an established record of specializing in the ever-changing landscape of retirement.

“This advisor will have to know how to look closely at cash needs and asset location concerns, and then look down the road to see retiree-specific tax matters well beyond the current year,” Sullivan said.

Why A Fiduciary Designation Is Key

A fiduciary is legally required to act always in the client’s best interests. That means, among other things, minimizing costs. Financial advisors who aren’t true fiduciaries can follow the suitability rule, which allows them to give advice suitable to the client’s best interests.

That’s fine, but you won’t lose in this case by taking the safest route possible. Whatever sort of advisor you hire, with whatever designation, “always go with a true fiduciary, who always puts your interests first,” Sullivan said.

Scott Bowen is a freelance writer and editor who has written for True/Slant.com, ForbesTraveler.com and Fortune Small Business. His fiction has been anthologized in “Tight Lines: Ten Years of the Yale Anglers’ Journal.”

The named advisory firms (“Advisors”) custody some or all of their assets with Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (“Schwab”). The Advisors are independent and not affiliated with Schwab, and their personnel are not employees or agents of Schwab. This is not a referral to, endorsement or recommendation of, or testimonial for the Advisors with respect to their investment advisory or other services. TRG (1216-RFWX)