The coolest health-tech products we saw at CES 2017
The coolest health-tech products we saw at CES 2017
LAS VEGAS — At CES 2017, we previewed some of the coolest health tech set to hit the market. SEE ALSO: The best tech of CES 2017 From a brand new take on the electric breast pump to a discreet way to check sobriety during a night on the town, trust us, there's a lot of neat stuff on the horizon. 1. Proof Image:  Brian koerber/mashable The Proof wearable wants to help drinkers keep an eye on their BAC levels. The company behind this wristband claims it can measure alcohol molecules through your skin and send data to its corresponding app on your smartphone. And with $100,000 in funding from the National Institutes of Health, plus extensive third-party testing, the company says it stands up against other breathalyzers on the market. It'll launch a crowdfunding campaign later this year and aims for a price range between $100 to $150. 2. Willow Image:  mashable These wearable breast pumps are a totally hands-free alternative to the traditional electric pump. The FDA-approved pumps are meant to be slipped into the wearer's bra , meaning users can go about other activities. Once Willow senses the storage bags are full, it stops on its own. It's even quiet enough to wear out of the house. Willow launches this spring, and will retail for the steep price of $429.99, plus $0.50 per storage bag. 3. Motiv Image:  motiv Tired of wearing a Fitbit all day? Motiv has a smaller alternative fitness tracker for you. The company says it uses three sensors to track data like heart rate or the number of steps taken in a day. All that data is sent to a corresponding app on your phone to track fitness goals. You can even take a dip in the pool. Motiv is available for pre-order for $199.00. 4. AIRE This digestive tracker wants to help you figure out which foods are most compatible with your body. A user blows into AIRE like a breathalyzer in order to determine the level of gas in his or her bloodstream. AIRE’s smartphone app uses that data to estimate how a user's body will respond to different types of foods. It's no doctor replacement, but it could offer useful insight about the effects of a user's diet. AIRE is available for pre-order at a discounted price of $99 — usually $149.00 — and ships this fall. 5. Kérastase Hair Coach Image:  lili sams/mashable Are you aware that you could be brushing your hair incorrectly, or that it's even a possibility to do so? L'Oreal's new Kérastase Hair Coach will see to it that you know exactly what you're doing. This smart brush packs a whole lot of tech, with five sensors that detect the various ways in which you brush your hair, and apparently even the health of the hair itself. It sends that data to a corresponding smartphone app that then coaches you to be a better brusher. When it launches in mid-2017, it'll cost a little under $200.00. Cheers to better hair days ahead. BONUS: 1 laptop, 3 4K screens, the ultimate gaming experience

LAS VEGAS — At CES 2017, we previewed some of the coolest health tech set to hit the market.

SEE ALSO: The best tech of CES 2017

From a brand new take on the electric breast pump to a discreet way to check sobriety during a night on the town, trust us, there's a lot of neat stuff on the horizon.

1. Proof

Image: Brian koerber/mashable

The Proof wearable wants to help drinkers keep an eye on their BAC levels.

The company behind this wristband claims it can measure alcohol molecules through your skin and send data to its corresponding app on your smartphone. And with $100,000 in funding from the National Institutes of Health, plus extensive third-party testing, the company says it stands up against other breathalyzers on the market.

It'll launch a crowdfunding campaign later this year and aims for a price range between $100 to $150.

2. Willow

Image: mashable

These wearable breast pumps are a totally hands-free alternative to the traditional electric pump.

The FDA-approved pumps are meant to be slipped into the wearer's bra, meaning users can go about other activities. Once Willow senses the storage bags are full, it stops on its own. It's even quiet enough to wear out of the house.

Willow launches this spring, and will retail for the steep price of $429.99, plus $0.50 per storage bag.

3. Motiv

Image: motiv

Tired of wearing a Fitbit all day? Motiv has a smaller alternative fitness tracker for you.

The company says it uses three sensors to track data like heart rate or the number of steps taken in a day. All that data is sent to a corresponding app on your phone to track fitness goals. You can even take a dip in the pool.

Motiv is available for pre-order for $199.00.

4. AIRE

This digestive tracker wants to help you figure out which foods are most compatible with your body.

A user blows into AIRE like a breathalyzer in order to determine the level of gas in his or her bloodstream. AIRE’s smartphone app uses that data to estimate how a user's body will respond to different types of foods. It's no doctor replacement, but it could offer useful insight about the effects of a user's diet.

AIRE is available for pre-order at a discounted price of $99 — usually $149.00 — and ships this fall.

5. Kérastase Hair Coach

Image: lili sams/mashable

Are you aware that you could be brushing your hair incorrectly, or that it's even a possibility to do so?

L'Oreal's new Kérastase Hair Coach will see to it that you know exactly what you're doing. This smart brush packs a whole lot of tech, with five sensors that detect the various ways in which you brush your hair, and apparently even the health of the hair itself. It sends that data to a corresponding smartphone app that then coaches you to be a better brusher.

When it launches in mid-2017, it'll cost a little under $200.00. Cheers to better hair days ahead.