Seahawks Receiver Paul Richardson Just Made One of the Best Catches in Playoff History
Seahawks Receiver Paul Richardson Just Made One of the Best Catches in Playoff History
The Seattle Seahawks have long been associated with a ground-and-pound style under Pete Carroll. They play nasty, smothering defense and control the clock on offense, wearing their opponents down over time. If you had to use a word to describe their receivers, it'd be "solid." Don't tell that to Paul Richardson, the team's second-round pick in the 2014 NFL Draft. He just turned a fourth-down prayer from Russell Wilson into one of the craziest catches in recent memory. Check it out for yourself above. The Lions got called for pass interference on this play, adding to the style points for the haul. Even as he's being illegally interfered with, Richardson somehow has the concentration to bring in the fourth-down pass. Predictably, Twitter blew up when they realized Richardson managed to make the catch, with reactions ranging from praise to disbelief: Catch of the year OH MY GOD That is one of the best catches I've ever seen. How This happens in Madden and I'm asking for my money back https://t.co/ Cris Collinsworth Paul Richardson show out there pic.twitter.com/ Talent has never been the question for Richardson, who has struggled to put it together for the Seahawks on a consistent basis. But they can probably live with some inconsistency if he pulls out catches like this every so often. sportstips@complex.com

The Seattle Seahawks have long been associated with a ground-and-pound style under Pete Carroll. They play nasty, smothering defense and control the clock on offense, wearing their opponents down over time. If you had to use a word to describe their receivers, it'd be "solid."

Don't tell that to Paul Richardson, the team's second-round pick in the 2014 NFL Draft. He just turned a fourth-down prayer from Russell Wilson into one of the craziest catches in recent memory. Check it out for yourself above.

The Lions got called for pass interference on this play, adding to the style points for the haul. Even as he's being illegally interfered with, Richardson somehow has the concentration to bring in the fourth-down pass.

Predictably, Twitter blew up when they realized Richardson managed to make the catch, with reactions ranging from praise to disbelief:

Catch of the year — Matthew Berry ( @MatthewBerryTMR ) January 8, 2017

OH MY GOD — Patrick Claybon ( @PatrickClaybon ) January 8, 2017

That is one of the best catches I've ever seen. — Spike Eskin ( @SpikeEskin ) January 8, 2017

How — Stephen White ( @sgw94 ) January 8, 2017

This happens in Madden and I'm asking for my money back https://t.co/s4B4MshA2X — Zito ( @_Zeets ) January 8, 2017

It might just be one of those nights for Richardson. After climbing the ladder to make another sick catch late in the second quarter, NBC analyst Cris Collinsworth remarked that Richardson, "looks like Odell Beckham out here making some of these catches." He's not wrong!

Paul Richardson show out there pic.twitter.com/89lzrfUh55 — NFL Update ( @MySportsUpdate ) January 8, 2017

Talent has never been the question for Richardson, who has struggled to put it together for the Seahawks on a consistent basis. But they can probably live with some inconsistency if he pulls out catches like this every so often.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.