Carrie Fisher’s Urn Is a Giant Prozac Pill
Carrie Fisher’s Urn Is a Giant Prozac Pill
Leave it to Carrie Fisher to find humor in death. The actress was laid to rest on Friday with her mother, Debbie Reynolds , in Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles, where Carrie made quite the entrance. Todd Fisher — Carrie’s brother and Debbie’s last surviving child — was photographed carrying his sister’s ashes in a giant Prozac pill, which was turned into an urn. Carrie was very open about her struggle with bipolar disorder, which the antidepressant medication can be prescribed to treat. According to , Debbie was buried with some of Carrie’s ashes. “Carrie’s favorite possession was a giant Prozac pill that she bought many years ago. A big pill,” Todd explained to reporters after the memorial. “She loved it, and it was in her house, and Billie and I felt it was where she’d want to be… We couldn’t find anything appropriate. Carrie would like that. It was her favorite thing, and so that’s how you do it. And so they’re together, and they will be together here and in heaven, and we’re OK with that.” “It was beautiful, it was very quiet,” Ruta Lee, one of Debbie’s close friends, who spoke at the funeral, told . “Today it focused a little bit more on Debbie, yesterday focused on Carrie. The two girls are being laid away in a beautiful crypt … mother and daughter forever.” Carrie’s daughter and Debbie’s granddaughter, Billie Lourd, was accompanied at the service by her co-star and rumored boyfriend, Taylor Lautner. He was also present at Thursday’s service for Fisher. Fellow stars Emma Roberts and Lea Michele were also in attendance. “The mood is very somber; friends and family are walking with their heads down and holding hands,” an eyewitness told ET. The legend passed away at the age of 84 from a suspected stroke, just one day after Carrie’s death. “She missed her daughter [Carrie] and wanted to very much be with her, and she had discussed some other things. She had been very strong the last several days; [there was] enormous stress on her, obviously,” Todd Fisher said after his mother’s passing. “And this morning, she said those words to me, and 15 minutes later she had a stroke and virtually left.” Carrie died on Dec. 27, a few days after going into cardiac arrest on a flight from London to Los Angeles. She was 60. The family plans to have a public memorial for both Reynolds and Fisher in the future.

Leave it to Carrie Fisher to find humor in death. The Star Wars actress was laid to rest on Friday with her mother, Debbie Reynolds, in Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles, where Carrie made quite the entrance.

Todd Fisher — Carrie’s brother and Debbie’s last surviving child — was photographed carrying his sister’s ashes in a giant Prozac pill, which was turned into an urn. Carrie was very open about her struggle with bipolar disorder, which the antidepressant medication can be prescribed to treat. According to People, Debbie was buried with some of Carrie’s ashes.

View photos Todd Fisher holds sister Carrie Fisher’s ashes at Forest Lawn Memorial Park. (Photo: AKM-GSI) More

“Carrie’s favorite possession was a giant Prozac pill that she bought many years ago. A big pill,” Todd explained to reporters after the memorial. “She loved it, and it was in her house, and Billie and I felt it was where she’d want to be… We couldn’t find anything appropriate. Carrie would like that. It was her favorite thing, and so that’s how you do it. And so they’re together, and they will be together here and in heaven, and we’re OK with that.”

“It was beautiful, it was very quiet,” Ruta Lee, one of Debbie’s close friends, who spoke at the funeral, told Entertainment Tonight. “Today it focused a little bit more on Debbie, yesterday focused on Carrie. The two girls are being laid away in a beautiful crypt … mother and daughter forever.”

Related: Carrie Fisher’s L.A. Mansion Was Home to Many

Carrie’s daughter and Debbie’s granddaughter, Billie Lourd, was accompanied at the service by her Scream Queens co-star and rumored boyfriend, Taylor Lautner. He was also present at Thursday’s service for Fisher.

Fellow Scream Queens stars Emma Roberts and Lea Michele were also in attendance.

View photos Taylor Lautner was on hand to support Billie Lourd. (Photo: AKM-GSI) More

“The mood is very somber; friends and family are walking with their heads down and holding hands,” an eyewitness told ET.

The Singin’ in the Rain legend passed away at the age of 84 from a suspected stroke, just one day after Carrie’s death.

Related: Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher’s Cutest Mother-Daughter Moments

“She missed her daughter [Carrie] and wanted to very much be with her, and she had discussed some other things. She had been very strong the last several days; [there was] enormous stress on her, obviously,” Todd Fisher said after his mother’s passing. “And this morning, she said those words to me, and 15 minutes later she had a stroke and virtually left.”

Carrie died on Dec. 27, a few days after going into cardiac arrest on a flight from London to Los Angeles. She was 60.

The family plans to have a public memorial for both Reynolds and Fisher in the future.



