Bollywood Bids Goodbye To Om Puri, Justin Bieber To Perform In India This Year And More From Ent!
Bollywood Bids Goodbye To Om Puri, Justin Bieber To Perform In India & More From Entertainment
Bollywood Bids Goodbye To Om Puri, Justin Bieber To Perform In India This Year And More From Ent! 1. The Film Fraternity Comes Together To Bid A Final Goodbye To Om Puri - A 'Great Friend' They Lost Too Soon Many from the film fraternity reached his Andheri residence to pay their last respects to the actor. Also present were his son and second ex-wife Nandita Puri, who could not control her emotions. Om Puri’s very close friend Shabana Azmi also broke down. 2. After Coldplay's Grand India Debut, Justin Bieber May Perform In Mumbai In May, Claim Reports he could at least do this with his hair • • • #arianagrande #justinbieber #jariana #dangerouswoman #purpose #likeforlike #selenagomez #nickiminaj #tour #honeymoon #believe #journals #yourstruly #edit #rare #random A photo posted by jariana hoe (@jarianaslayin) on Jan 7, 2017 at 4:57am PST   According to a Mumbai Mirror report, Bieber might play live at the DY Patil Stadium in May. The report further claims that this would be a whistle-stop visit to Mumbai as part of his`Purpose' tour in Asia. 3. Om Puri Once Joked About His Obituary Saying He Always Wanted To Be Remembered For His Smile What #OmPuri told me while referring to his 'future obituary' in #AapKiAdalat Telecast Saturday night at 10 on @indiatvnews  pic.twitter.com/Ih8P7FmEDT A long time back, Om Puri was invited as a guest on Rajat Sharma's chat show and he had joked about his own obituary. The clip that was shared by Rajat Sharma himself shows how Om Puri stood up and enthusiastically cracked a joke about his own obituary and how he wanted the world to remember him after he's gone. 4. Fed Up With 'Atarangi’ Contestants, Salman Khan Plans To Quit Bigg Boss After This Season According to a report, Salman was overheard saying, " 5. Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira In his recent interview, Shahid said,

1. The Film Fraternity Comes Together To Bid A Final Goodbye To Om Puri - A 'Great Friend' They Lost Too Soon

Twitter

Many from the film fraternity reached his Andheri residence to pay their last respects to the actor. Also present were his son and second ex-wife Nandita Puri, who could not control her emotions. Om Puri’s very close friend Shabana Azmi also broke down.

2. After Coldplay's Grand India Debut, Justin Bieber May Perform In Mumbai In May, Claim Reports

According to a Mumbai Mirror report, Bieber might play live at the DY Patil Stadium in May. The report further claims that this would be a whistle-stop visit to Mumbai as part of his`Purpose' tour in Asia.

3. Om Puri Once Joked About His Obituary Saying He Always Wanted To Be Remembered For His Smile

What #OmPuri told me while referring to his 'future obituary' in #AapKiAdalat Telecast Saturday night at 10 on @indiatvnews pic.twitter.com/Ih8P7FmEDT — Rajat Sharma (@RajatSharmaLive) January 6, 2017

A long time back, Om Puri was invited as a guest on Rajat Sharma's chat show and he had joked about his own obituary. The clip that was shared by Rajat Sharma himself shows how Om Puri stood up and enthusiastically cracked a joke about his own obituary and how he wanted the world to remember him after he's gone.



4. Fed Up With 'Atarangi’ Contestants, Salman Khan Plans To Quit Bigg Boss After This Season

Colors

According to a report, Salman was overheard saying, "I am so busy with my other commitments, I have quite a lot on my own plate, and then handling some of these ‘atarangi’ contestants in the Bigg Boss house, is a bit too much. They think that creating all this ruckus will give them more footage, it’s insane behavior, not sure if I want to handle this."

5. Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira

Twitter

In his recent interview, Shahid said, "A mainstream star having an arranged marriage is unique. It is not everyday that a Hindi film hero goes and marries someone no one even knows of. I am an actor. Most parts of my life are up for discussion, by default. It won't stop whether I like it or not. If people cross the line, we do get displeased. But the line itself is wide. We can't be touchy and say, bhai mere baare mein koi baat nahin karega."