Wife of Cleveland Cavaliers' J.R. Smith gives birth to daughter five months early
Cavs' Smith reveals daughter born prematurely
Cavs' Smith reveals daughter born prematurely LeBron James defies a long history of misses Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Shumpert suffers ankle sprain early in Cavs' win LeBron James defies a long history of misses Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kerr fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Rodman gets 3 years' probation in freeway crash Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale J.R. Smith and his wife Jewel Harris reveal their daughter Dakota was born five months early and ask everyone for prayers. (1:04) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment J.R. Smith 's wife gave birth prematurely to the couple's daughter, named Dakota, and said the baby arrived five months early and weighs 1 pound. The couple revealed the news in a video posted on Uninterrupted , the online platform created by LeBron James . "We know we're not the only family going through this, who has been through this or who will ever go through it," Smith's wife, Jewel Harris, said in the video. "That's why we decided to share what we've been going through with you guys. Please keep us in your prayers, and we'll do the same for everybody else." Smith has not played since December after undergoing surgery on a fractured right thumb and is expected to be out a total of three months. In the video, Smith thanked fans for checking in about his injury and said it "is what it is." The Cavaliers guard had announced Harris' pregnancy in October in a video also posted on Uninterrupted, when he confirmed his contract extension with the team. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

J.R. Smith and his wife Jewel Harris reveal their daughter Dakota was born five months early and ask everyone for prayers. (1:04)

J.R. Smith's wife gave birth prematurely to the couple's daughter, named Dakota, and said the baby arrived five months early and weighs 1 pound.

The couple revealed the news in a video posted on Uninterrupted, the online platform created by LeBron James.

"We know we're not the only family going through this, who has been through this or who will ever go through it," Smith's wife, Jewel Harris, said in the video. "That's why we decided to share what we've been going through with you guys. Please keep us in your prayers, and we'll do the same for everybody else."

Smith has not played since December after undergoing surgery on a fractured right thumb and is expected to be out a total of three months. In the video, Smith thanked fans for checking in about his injury and said it "is what it is."

The Cavaliers guard had announced Harris' pregnancy in October in a video also posted on Uninterrupted, when he confirmed his contract extension with the team.