Airbus Reveals New Modular Cabin Concept That Could Change How We Fly
Airbus Reveals New Modular Cabin Concept That Could Change How We Fly
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Grant Martin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Airbus this week revealed plans for a new type of airplane cabin that could radically change the travel experience -- if it ever actually comes to market. Called Transpose, the concept breaks an aircraft's long, cylindrical body into identical and repeatable sections that can be customized to any loadout needs. One particular section, for example, could be loaded with economy seats for two dozen passengers. Next to it, a bar, first-class section, sleeping quarters or even a cargo hold could be arranged. When the aircraft reaches its destination, each section could be unloaded quickly individually and the entire aircraft reconfigured for the next route. The Transpose concept from Airbus has sections of each cabin configured and loaded separately. SOURCE: Airbus A3 That loading and unloading process could also help tackle an issue that currently slows down the commercial airline industry at large: long loading and unloading times. If passenger and cargo modules can be cleaned, prepared and settled on the ground prior to the arrival of the aircraft, sections would only need to be quickly replaced rather than waiting for passengers and crews to cycle through the cabin. It's a concept that's frequently been explored by the airline industry; just last year, Airbus earned a patent for completely detachable cabins (without any modular configurability). Airbus may be able to speed up loading time by swapping out passengers and cargo . SOURCE: Airbus A3 Indeed, the Transpose concept, albeit better developed than many of the crude patents airline currently out in public, comes on the tail of a long list of airline concepts and patents recently released to the public, from half-standing seats to honeycomb designs . In reality though, few of those concepts have actually made it to market.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Airbus this week revealed plans for a new type of airplane cabin that could radically change the travel experience -- if it ever actually comes to market.

Called Transpose, the concept breaks an aircraft's long, cylindrical body into identical and repeatable sections that can be customized to any loadout needs. One particular section, for example, could be loaded with economy seats for two dozen passengers. Next to it, a bar, first-class section, sleeping quarters or even a cargo hold could be arranged.

When the aircraft reaches its destination, each section could be unloaded quickly individually and the entire aircraft reconfigured for the next route.

That loading and unloading process could also help tackle an issue that currently slows down the commercial airline industry at large: long loading and unloading times. If passenger and cargo modules can be cleaned, prepared and settled on the ground prior to the arrival of the aircraft, sections would only need to be quickly replaced rather than waiting for passengers and crews to cycle through the cabin. It's a concept that's frequently been explored by the airline industry; just last year, Airbus earned a patent for completely detachable cabins (without any modular configurability).

Indeed, the Transpose concept, albeit better developed than many of the crude patents airline currently out in public, comes on the tail of a long list of airline concepts and patents recently released to the public, from half-standing seats to honeycomb designs. In reality though, few of those concepts have actually made it to market.