Tube strike: Government accuses union bosses of co-ordinating action to inflict 'maximum pain' on commuters
Tube strike: Government accuses union bosses of co-ordinating action to inflict 'maximum pain' on commuters
nions have co-ordinated a spate of strikes this week to inflict "maximum pain" upon millions of commuters, Government sources said on Sunday night. Industrial action which will affect around five million people began at 6pm on Sunday as Transport for London staff staged a 24-hour London Underground strike , while Southern Rail services are expected to be severely disrupted until Friday as a result of three separate days of industrial action. The action comes amid warnings that the misery will spread across the country as union bosses said industrial action is “inevitable” on the Northern rail network, which covers Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne and Hull. usiness chiefs and MPs warned strikes could send out a message to the rest of the world that London is "not open for business" at a crucial moment in the Brexit process. Four different unions taking industrial action in the same week has led to a number of allegations that bosses have deliberately timed the strikes together. A Government source told The Telegraph: "This action is clearly co-ordinated to inflict maximum pain on hard working commuters". ick Herbert, Conservative MP for Arundel and a former minister, added: "It's intolerable that key public services can be brought to a halt by a small number of militant trade unionists in what increasingly looks like a co-ordinated political action. "The Government cannot give in to this pressure and if the campaign continues we will have to look at new measures to ensure that services which people rely on cannot be disrupted in the future." A 24-hour walkout over job losses by the RMT and TSSA unions, which represent TfL staff, began at 6pm and is expected to bring the capital to a standstill on Monday, when many are returning to work for the first time after the Christmas break. bout 300,000 Southern Rail passengers also face being unable to get to work this week as rail staff plan to strike on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday over the implementation of driver-only operated trains. Southern admitted it cannot lay on enough rail replacement buses to get people into work and the Government has urged people to either work from home or share lifts with other commuters to get to work. As commuters who usually catch the train to work are expected to hit the roads instead, the AA has warned drivers can expect a rise in congestion and "road rage" across London and the South East. In addition to the rail strikes an estimated 10,000 British Airways passengers also face disruption as cabin crew strike on Tuesday and Wednesday. Heathrow is likely to be worst affected, with up to 48 flights grounded. A BA spokeswoman revealed that although all passengers have been offered an alternative flight "within hours" of their original booking, the airline will not compensate them for the inconvenience unless their new flight is significantly delayed. im Loughton, Conservative MP for East Worthing and Shoreham, said: "At a time when the Government is doing everything it can to show Britain is open for business post-Brexit, a resurgence in union activity doesn't help that message. "We don't want this to be seen as a back-door way for the unions to try and undermine Brexit." Colin Stanbridge, chief executive of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who said: "This is the wrong time to send out a message across the world that London isn't open for business, as it is being closed by ongoing strikes. "It will put tourists off visiting and discourage business from moving their headquarters to the UK. Strikes like this go to the very heart of undermining companies' efforts to make a real success of Brexit." He added that if London's image abroad is damaged, the cost to the UK will be "small beer" compared to the day-to-day cost of strikes, which already run into tens of millions of pounds.

Unions have co-ordinated a spate of strikes this week to inflict "maximum pain" upon millions of commuters, Government sources said on Sunday night.

Industrial action which will affect around five million people began at 6pm on Sunday as Transport for London staff staged a 24-hour London Underground strike, while Southern Rail services are expected to be severely disrupted until Friday as a result of three separate days of industrial action.

The action comes amid warnings that the misery will spread across the country as union bosses said industrial action is “inevitable” on the Northern rail network, which covers Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne and Hull.