London Tube strike to go ahead after union rejects last-ditch offer
London Tube strike to go ahead after union rejects last-ditch offer
A Tube strike across much of the London underground network will go ahead on Sunday night and Monday after the  Transport Salaried Staffs Association (TSSA) union rejected a last-ditch offer from London Underground. Unions say staff cuts have left many stations dangerously under-staffed and are unhappy that workers are having to do overtime to fill the gaps. London Underground made a last-minute offer in an attempt to avert the strike but TSSA confirmed it has rejected the offer and will go ahead with the walkout.   Everything you need to know about the Tube strike It said on Twitter: “TSSA reps vote to reject London Underground offer on station staffing. 24 hour #TubeStrike starts at 18.00 today. #SafetyFirst” The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union, which also represents station staff, had already confirmed its members will strike. In total, up to 4,000 London Underground staff are expected to take part. The walkout is likely to lead to travel chaos for London commuters. There will be no service on the Victoria or Waterloo and City lines and a heavily reduced service on other lines. A number of central London stations will be closed. Transport for London said it may not know until Monday morning which stations are open and which services are operating. The disruption comes in the same week as Southern train drivers are to continue their strike, with walkouts planned for Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday - bringing many train routes to a standstill. Unions are unhappy about the loss of 800 station staff jobs and the closure of station ticket offices by Boris Johnson, the previous Mayor of London. They say the cuts have left stations “without sufficient staff to operate safely and effectively”. The RMT claims: “Reason, safety considerations, providing a service for passengers and staff welfare have all been ignored by senior management, who have driven through massive staffing cuts across the network.” London's statues: Strand to Parliament Square               London's statues: Strand to Parliament Square    Sir Arthur ‘Bomber’ Harris   1892-1984 Ordered the RAF ‘terror raids’ in WW2, killing untold thousands, including 25,000 in Dresden   iStock     Gen Sir Charles Napier   1782-1853 Conquered Sindh. ‘Our object was…money. Every shilling of this has been picked out of blood’   Rex Features     Maj-Gen Sir Henry Havelock   1795-1857 Took bloody vengeance on Indian mutineers when putting down the First War of Independence   Rex Features     Lord Curzon, V of India   1859-1925 Presided over a famine in which millions died, often because his qualifications for relief were so harsh   Rex Features     Field Marshal Wolseley   1833-1913 Crushed India. ‘That a native should [manhandle] an Englishman was too much'   iStock     Field Marshal Kitchener   1850-1916 Invented concentration camps, killing 28,000 Boer civilians (mainly women and children) and untold natives   Getty Images     Field Marshal Haig   1861-1928 Nicknamed 'Butcher' in WW1 and responsible for 2m casualties among men under his command      Lord Palmerston   1784-1865 Launched First Opium War, forcing China to import a drug that blighted millions of its people's lives   Alamy     Sir Winston Churchill   1874-1965 'I hate Indians. They are… protected by their mere pullulation from the doom that is their due’   Rex Features  London Underground says the changes are part of its modernisation process. As more and more passengers use the automated Oyster Card system, it says fewer staff are needed in ticket offices. But the company admits some stations are under-staffed and it is looking to recruit more workers. Read more Last-ditch talks look set to fail to avert London Tube walkout Man destroys London shop because he can't top up his Oyster card Two Tube stations closed after reports of man wielding knife Londoners face worst commute in years after 17 station closures Steve Griffiths, London Underground's chief operating officer, said: “It is clear that some more staff for stations are needed. We have started to recruit them and will continue to work with the unions to implement the recommendations made in the review. We believe that this will help us to provide a better service for our customers and ensure that they continue to feel safe, secure and able to access the right help while using our network. “We encourage the trade unions to continue working with us in order to resolve this dispute and deliver the customer service our customers expect.” More about: Tube Strike London Transport For London TFL London Underground Comments

A Tube strike across much of the London underground network will go ahead on Sunday night and Monday after the Transport Salaried Staffs Association (TSSA) union rejected a last-ditch offer from London Underground.

Unions say staff cuts have left many stations dangerously under-staffed and are unhappy that workers are having to do overtime to fill the gaps.

London Underground made a last-minute offer in an attempt to avert the strike but TSSA confirmed it has rejected the offer and will go ahead with the walkout.

It said on Twitter: “TSSA reps vote to reject London Underground offer on station staffing. 24 hour #TubeStrike starts at 18.00 today. #SafetyFirst”

The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union, which also represents station staff, had already confirmed its members will strike. In total, up to 4,000 London Underground staff are expected to take part.

The walkout is likely to lead to travel chaos for London commuters. There will be no service on the Victoria or Waterloo and City lines and a heavily reduced service on other lines. A number of central London stations will be closed. Transport for London said it may not know until Monday morning which stations are open and which services are operating.

The disruption comes in the same week as Southern train drivers are to continue their strike, with walkouts planned for Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday - bringing many train routes to a standstill.

Unions are unhappy about the loss of 800 station staff jobs and the closure of station ticket offices by Boris Johnson, the previous Mayor of London. They say the cuts have left stations “without sufficient staff to operate safely and effectively”.

The RMT claims: “Reason, safety considerations, providing a service for passengers and staff welfare have all been ignored by senior management, who have driven through massive staffing cuts across the network.”

London's statues: Strand to Parliament Square







9 show all London's statues: Strand to Parliament Square















1/9 Sir Arthur ‘Bomber’ Harris 1892-1984



Ordered the RAF ‘terror raids’ in WW2, killing untold thousands, including 25,000 in Dresden iStock

2/9 Gen Sir Charles Napier 1782-1853



Conquered Sindh. ‘Our object was…money. Every shilling of this has been picked out of blood’ Rex Features

3/9 Maj-Gen Sir Henry Havelock 1795-1857



Took bloody vengeance on Indian mutineers when putting down the First War of Independence Rex Features

4/9 Lord Curzon, V of India 1859-1925



Presided over a famine in which millions died, often because his qualifications for relief were so harsh Rex Features

5/9 Field Marshal Wolseley 1833-1913



Crushed India. ‘That a native should [manhandle] an Englishman was too much' iStock

6/9 Field Marshal Kitchener 1850-1916



Invented concentration camps, killing 28,000 Boer civilians (mainly women and children) and untold natives Getty Images

7/9 Field Marshal Haig 1861-1928



Nicknamed 'Butcher' in WW1 and responsible for 2m casualties among men under his command

8/9 Lord Palmerston 1784-1865



Launched First Opium War, forcing China to import a drug that blighted millions of its people's lives Alamy

9/9 Sir Winston Churchill 1874-1965

'I hate Indians. They are… protected by their mere pullulation from the doom that is their due’ Rex Features

London Underground says the changes are part of its modernisation process. As more and more passengers use the automated Oyster Card system, it says fewer staff are needed in ticket offices.

But the company admits some stations are under-staffed and it is looking to recruit more workers.

Steve Griffiths, London Underground's chief operating officer, said: “It is clear that some more staff for stations are needed. We have started to recruit them and will continue to work with the unions to implement the recommendations made in the review. We believe that this will help us to provide a better service for our customers and ensure that they continue to feel safe, secure and able to access the right help while using our network.

“We encourage the trade unions to continue working with us in order to resolve this dispute and deliver the customer service our customers expect.”