SRK's Solution To Avoid Incidents Like Bangalore Molestation Is Something We All Need To Think About
SRK's Solution To Avoid Bangalore Like Molestations Is Something We All Need To Think About
SRK's Solution To Avoid Incidents Like Bangalore Molestation Is Something We All Need To Think About It’s been over a week since the demonic Bengaluru mass molestation took place but the nation is still finding it hard to cope up with the shocking incident. It won’t be wrong to say that the New Year couldn’t have started on a worse note than this, especially for women. Ever since the news of this incident broke, there have been elaborate discussions and debates taking place in every nook and corner of the country. From commoners to political parties, everyone is trying to find out a solution so that such kind of incidents doesn’t take place in the future. Similarly, even our Bollywood celebrities are vocally condemning the entire incident. Some have even made videos to lash out at the predators and extend support to the womankind. Recently, Shah Rukh Khan too expressed his opinion on it and shared a golden piece of advice at an event.  The actor said,” I think it (the Bengaluru molestation incident) is completely wrong. We – mothers and fathers have to teach their sons to respect women.” While some of the disillusioned people of our country are busy blaming women for sporting short clothes or even western clothes for that matter, going out at night etc, SRK said something that needed to be heard. Instead of blaming our women, it’s high time people start raising their sons better. It’s disgusting to see that men of the 21 generation have started treating women like objects. Apart from SRK, many celebrities right like Aamir Khan, Akshay Kumar, Hrithik Roshan , Anushka Sharma, Malaika Arora Khan and Virat Kohli among other had condemned this incident.

It’s been over a week since the demonic Bengaluru mass molestation took place but the nation is still finding it hard to cope up with the shocking incident.

twitter

It won’t be wrong to say that the New Year couldn’t have started on a worse note than this, especially for women. Ever since the news of this incident broke, there have been elaborate discussions and debates taking place in every nook and corner of the country. From commoners to political parties, everyone is trying to find out a solution so that such kind of incidents doesn’t take place in the future.

BCCL

Similarly, even our Bollywood celebrities are vocally condemning the entire incident. Some have even made videos to lash out at the predators and extend support to the womankind.

Recently, Shah Rukh Khan too expressed his opinion on it and shared a golden piece of advice at an event. The actor said,” I think it (the Bengaluru molestation incident) is completely wrong. We – mothers and fathers have to teach their sons to respect women.”

youtube

While some of the disillusioned people of our country are busy blaming women for sporting short clothes or even western clothes for that matter, going out at night etc, SRK said something that needed to be heard. Instead of blaming our women, it’s high time people start raising their sons better. It’s disgusting to see that men of the 21st generation have started treating women like objects.

Apart from SRK, many celebrities right like Aamir Khan, Akshay Kumar, Hrithik Roshan , Anushka Sharma, Malaika Arora Khan and Virat Kohli among other had condemned this incident.