17 Years Later, a Customer (Finally) Returned This Gap Shirt
17 Years Later, a Customer (Finally) Returned This Gap Shirt
Earlier this week, an image of a BabyGap button-down shirt with an attached checkered vest surfaced online. The XL shirt, priced at $24.50, was hung next to a sign that read, “Who on Earth accepted this as a return?!?!?!" It turns out an unknown customer returned the (now vintage) children's top almost 17 years later since it was purchased, way past the company's 45-day return policy. Not only is the photo hilarious, it speaks volumes about the current trends we’re seeing in fashion right now. A customer may have just literally brought the 2000s back to Gap , but on the runway and in street style, it’s been present for the better part of the last few months. Take, for example, when cult-worthy brand Vetements staged its first couture show in the summer of 2016. Models paraded down the runway wearing Juicy Couture tracksuits , signifying a clear nod to the decade and an ironic twist to the label’s first couture presentation. As if that wasn’t enough, Paris Hilton, queen of 2000s style, is making a comeback. Just a few months ago, Kendall Jenner referenced the star's style when choosing her glittery 21st birthday dress . The hotel heirless also gained attention when Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, wore the exact same Self Portrait dress as her on the red carpet just a few days later. The Gap return might not mean we’re all about to start wearing shirt-vest hybrids —although both Prada and Dolce & Gabbana experimented with the retro style of layering on the runway during the early 2000s—but it certainly reminded us of the trends we once loved . Some of the other forgotten style craze from the time period include camo print, cropped jeans, halter tops (similar to some of the ones Bella and Gigi Hadid have been sporting lately), corset tops , and rhinestone-studded tees. With the way things are going, we wouldn’t be surprised if designers pick up on some of these elements when fashion week rolls around next month. 10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks 7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20

By Kristen Bateman. Photos: Courtesy of Twitter.

Earlier this week, an image of a BabyGap button-down shirt with an attached checkered vest surfaced online. The XL shirt, priced at $24.50, was hung next to a sign that read, “Who on Earth accepted this as a return?!?!?!" It turns out an unknown customer returned the (now vintage) children's top almost 17 years later since it was purchased, way past the company's 45-day return policy.

Not only is the photo hilarious, it speaks volumes about the current trends we’re seeing in fashion right now. A customer may have just literally brought the 2000s back to Gap, but on the runway and in street style, it’s been present for the better part of the last few months.

Take, for example, when cult-worthy brand Vetements staged its first couture show in the summer of 2016. Models paraded down the runway wearing Juicy Couture tracksuits, signifying a clear nod to the decade and an ironic twist to the label’s first couture presentation. As if that wasn’t enough, Paris Hilton, queen of 2000s style, is making a comeback. Just a few months ago, Kendall Jenner referenced the star's style when choosing her glittery 21st birthday dress. The hotel heirless also gained attention when Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, wore the exact same Self Portrait dress as her on the red carpet just a few days later.

The Gap return might not mean we’re all about to start wearing shirt-vest hybrids—although both Prada and Dolce & Gabbana experimented with the retro style of layering on the runway during the early 2000s—but it certainly reminded us of the trends we once loved.

Some of the other forgotten style craze from the time period include camo print, cropped jeans, halter tops (similar to some of the ones Bella and Gigi Hadid have been sporting lately), corset tops, and rhinestone-studded tees. With the way things are going, we wouldn’t be surprised if designers pick up on some of these elements when fashion week rolls around next month.

This story originally appeared on Allure.

More from Allure:

10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger

Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape

The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks

7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos

The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair

The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20