Jerusalem attack: Four Israeli soldiers dead, 17 injured, after truck ram into crowd



Jerusalem attack: Four Israeli soldiers dead, 17 injured, after truck ram into crowd

Updated

Four Israeli soldiers have been killed in Jerusalem after a truck rammed into their tour group in a deliberate attack next to a popular lookout.

Key points: Truck rammed into Israeli soldiers as they disembarked from a bus

Police say the Palestinian truck driver was shot dead at the scene

Jerusalem police have called the truck-ramming a terrorist attack

The young Israeli army recruits had just alighted from a tour bus next to a popular Jerusalem promenade.

CCTV footage of the attack shows a truck mounting the kerb and ploughing through the crowd of soldiers.

The driver then reversed over injured people on the ground before being shot dead.

Police said the dead victims — three women and one man — were all in their 20s.

Three of those killed were Israel Defence Forces (IDF) cadets, while one was an officer.

Seventeen soldiers were also wounded and taken to hospital.

The attack took place right beside a tourist lookout in the neighbourhood of Armon Hanatsiv.

"There was a group of soldiers that got off the bus… and he [the attacker] took the opportunity when there were getting organised on the grass and drove into them causing serious injuries to a number of people," Israeli police media spokesman Mickey Rosenfield told the ABC.

"We confirmed it was a terrorist attack. There was a response at the scene and the terrorist was shot."

Tens of distraught young soldiers remained at the scene after the attack.

Some of them were treated for shock, while others were visibly upset and crying.

A wave of Palestinian street attacks, including vehicle rammings, has slowed but not stopped completely since it began in October 2015.

The ramming was the deadliest Palestinian attack in Jerusalem in months.

"What we can confirm is there was a decrease in the number of attacks in the last couple of weeks, in fact last couple of months in Jerusalem. But unfortunately there was an opportunity that was taken by the terrorist who saw these soldiers," Mr Rosenfield said.

Witnesses describe the scene

Thirty-three-year-old tour guide Lea Schreiber was leading a group of about 30 soldiers when the attack took place.

"We were about 10 groups of soldiers. They're in a course [learning] to be commanders," she told the ABC at the scene.

"I hear my soldiers shouting and screaming and I didn't understand.

"And I'm looking behind my soldiers and I'm just seeing a truck that went on the sidewalk and hitting the soldiers."

She said it was obvious it was a terror attack once the truck began to reverse over the wounded soldiers.

"It took them some time to kill them so he had time to make a reverse, just to go back with his truck. I don't know how much time it took. Maybe one minute and a half. Enough time to make wounds and to kill."

Australian-Israeli volunteer paramedic Dovi Meyer, from Bondi Beach, arrived at the scene shortly after the attack

"It was scenes of chaos. A lot of screaming," the 21-year-old told the ABC.

"A lot of soldiers who had witnessed their friends, young soldiers — very young soldiers — being murdered before their eyes and pinned under the trucks."

IS link to attack unclear

A few hours after the attack, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu toured the scene of the attack, telling reporters that "all signs point to the attacker being a supporter of the Islamic State (IS)".

"We in Jerusalem have just experienced an unprovoked terrorist attack, a murderous attack that claimed the lives of four young Israelis and wounded others," he said.

"This is part of the same pattern inspired by Islamic State, by ISIS, that we saw first in France, then in Germany and now in Jerusalem.

"This is part of the same ongoing battle against this global scourge of the new terrorism. We can only fight it together, but we have to fight it, and we will."

Police have not provided any details of the attacker's alleged link to the IS group.

Roni Alsheich, the national police chief, told reporters he could not rule out that the driver had been motivated by a truck ramming attack in a Berlin Christmas market that killed 12 people last month.

A spokesperson for the Palestinian militant group Hamas welcomed the attack.

"Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, congratulates the Jerusalem brave attack and we consider it to be a natural reaction to the Israeli occupation's violations and crimes against our people, our land and holy places," Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said.

"The Israeli occupation does not have any option other than leaving our people, lands and holy places. And the Intifada, the Jerusalem Intifada will continue, God willing, with all forms of resistance to defend Palestine, the land and the Palestinian people."

Palestinian street assaults over the past 15 months have killed at least 37 Israelis and two visiting Americans.

At least 231 Palestinians have been killed in violence in Israel, the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip during that period.

Israel says at least 157 of them were assailants in lone attacks often targeting security forces and using rudimentary weapons including kitchen knives. Others died during clashes and protests.

Israel says one of the main causes of the violence has been incitement by the Palestinian leadership, with young men encouraged to attack Israeli soldiers and civilians.

The Palestinian Authority, which exercises limited self-rule in the West Bank, denies that allegation, and says assailants have acted out of frustration over Israeli occupation of land Palestinians seek for a state in peace talks stalled since 2014.

ABC/wires

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, israel

First posted