To Prove Her Love, NRI Woman Joins Sex Racket In Rajasthan That Blackmailed Wealthy People
To Prove Her Love, NRI Woman Joins Sex Racket In Rajasthan That Blackmailed Wealthy People
To Prove Her Love, NRI Woman Joins Sex Racket In Rajasthan That Blackmailed Wealthy People In an urge to prove her love for the man she wanted, a 26-year-old NRI woman became part of an alleged sex racket that later blackmailed at least six persons. The special operation group (SOG) wing of Rajasthan police on Thursday found out about this after the woman's arrest from Kota by the police on charges of extortion and blackmailing. The arrest came almost a fortnight after the SOG busted a gang in the city involved in blackmailing wealthy people. Two persons were also arrested in this regard. The story of the woman, Ravneet Kaur - born in Hong Kong and residing with her grandmother in Punjab's Faridkot - is nothing short of a film script. "In 2008 she came to India to her native village in Punjab and did a one-year certificate course in investment management. In 2009 she came to Gurgaon and stayed with the family of her friend. In the year 2012 she met a man identified as Rohit Sharma who was pursuing MBA from a private university where she was doing BBA course. That's when both fell in love," said Karan Sharma, additional superintendent of police, SOG. After completing their courses, they decided to get married but the boy's family was against this relationship as neither of them were earning. "In the interrogation she confessed that rejection by the mother of the boy she loved made her go for easy money. Thus in 2013 she met the kingpin of the sex racket Akshat Sharma who offered her a job of Rs 12,000 per month. That's when she met other gang members," Sharma added. "All these people frequented Akshat's office. The gang realized that the girl was desperate to earn money by hook or by crook. So in 2014 they sent her to a leading builder in the city. Later the gang threatened the builder and demanded he pay them Rs 1.20 crore, else they will lodge a rape case against him. This was her first deal in which the gang members gave her Rs 30 lakh," Sharma said. Thereafter the gang members hunted for other soft targets varying from doctor, engineer, builders and others. "Since 2014 to February, 2016 when she got married the woman has nearly earned Rs 1 crore plus and was part of blackmailing at least six men," he said. Asked if the woman continued to be involved in the racket after her marriage, Sharma said, "No, after her marriage, she wanted to have a fair life. Most importantly her husband was unaware of what all she did prior to her marriage," he said. The money she earned was spent on her husband while he was still her boyfriend. She gave him expensive gifts, varying from imported perfume to jewellery. "In the interrogation she has claimed that she wanted to prove to the boy's family that she can earn better for her husband," he added.

In an urge to prove her love for the man she wanted, a 26-year-old NRI woman became part of an alleged sex racket that later blackmailed at least six persons. The special operation group (SOG) wing of Rajasthan police on Thursday found out about this after the woman's arrest from Kota by the police on charges of extortion and blackmailing.

BCCL/Representational Image

The arrest came almost a fortnight after the SOG busted a gang in the city involved in blackmailing wealthy people. Two persons were also arrested in this regard. The story of the woman, Ravneet Kaur - born in Hong Kong and residing with her grandmother in Punjab's Faridkot - is nothing short of a film script.

"In 2008 she came to India to her native village in Punjab and did a one-year certificate course in investment management. In 2009 she came to Gurgaon and stayed with the family of her friend. In the year 2012 she met a man identified as Rohit Sharma who was pursuing MBA from a private university where she was doing BBA course. That's when both fell in love," said Karan Sharma, additional superintendent of police, SOG.

After completing their courses, they decided to get married but the boy's family was against this relationship as neither of them were earning. "In the interrogation she confessed that rejection by the mother of the boy she loved made her go for easy money. Thus in 2013 she met the kingpin of the sex racket Akshat Sharma who offered her a job of Rs 12,000 per month. That's when she met other gang members," Sharma added.

www.forevernews.in/Representational Image

"All these people frequented Akshat's office. The gang realized that the girl was desperate to earn money by hook or by crook. So in 2014 they sent her to a leading builder in the city. Later the gang threatened the builder and demanded he pay them Rs 1.20 crore, else they will lodge a rape case against him. This was her first deal in which the gang members gave her Rs 30 lakh," Sharma said.

Thereafter the gang members hunted for other soft targets varying from doctor, engineer, builders and others. "Since 2014 to February, 2016 when she got married the woman has nearly earned Rs 1 crore plus and was part of blackmailing at least six men," he said.

Asked if the woman continued to be involved in the racket after her marriage, Sharma said, "No, after her marriage, she wanted to have a fair life. Most importantly her husband was unaware of what all she did prior to her marriage," he said.

BCCL/Representational Image

The money she earned was spent on her husband while he was still her boyfriend. She gave him expensive gifts, varying from imported perfume to jewellery. "In the interrogation she has claimed that she wanted to prove to the boy's family that she can earn better for her husband," he added.

The ill-fated woman had a miscarriage almost a fortnight before her arrest on Thursday. Despite the fact that she was arrested on the charges of blackmailing and extortion, her husband was seen bringing her medicines and clothes at the SOG headquarters. "She was ill, thus on humanitarian ground we have allowed her husband to bring whatever she needs, including medicines," said an officer.

Originally Published in the Times Of India