Meet Serena Unger, Deepika Padukone's Character In 'xXx' Who Represents Women In Today's World
Meet Serena Unger, Deepika Padukone's Character In 'xXx' Who Represents Women In Today's World
Meet Serena Unger, Deepika Padukone's Character In 'xXx' Who Represents Women In Today's World Deepika Padukone is all geared up for her big Hollywood debut. While the first trailer teased us fans with mere glimpses of the leggy lass, the following trailers managed to spike our interest as she can be seen performing some high-octane stunt sequences. What’s more, she has retained her Indian accent for the film. Playing the role of Serena Unger, DP looks all kinds of intimidating. The best part is that her sexiness and sassiness is intact. Giving a tough competition to the Vin Diesel, Deepika plays a very thrilling character. In a bid to spike our curiosity even further, the makers have released a video of Serena’s character-sketch. In the video, a very excited Deepika says, "When you first meet Serena, you don't know whose side she is on. She is a representation of women in today's world. She is independent, intelligent and can stand up for herself. She is always observing, learning.” Check out Deepika’s badass avatar right here:

Deepika Padukone is all geared up for her big Hollywood debut. While the first trailer teased us fans with mere glimpses of the leggy lass, the following trailers managed to spike our interest as she can be seen performing some high-octane stunt sequences.

Youtube

What’s more, she has retained her Indian accent for the film. Playing the role of Serena Unger, DP looks all kinds of intimidating. The best part is that her sexiness and sassiness is intact. Giving a tough competition to the Vin Diesel, Deepika plays a very thrilling character.

youtube

In a bid to spike our curiosity even further, the makers have released a video of Serena’s character-sketch.

In the video, a very excited Deepika says, "When you first meet Serena, you don't know whose side she is on. She is a representation of women in today's world. She is independent, intelligent and can stand up for herself. She is always observing, learning.”

youtube

She even went on to draw a parallel between her character and the protagonist Xander. She said, “I think what draws Xander to Serena is the fact that he sees a lot of him in her. You realise how similar they are to each other and then you see how they work together as a team. Slowly you discover that she is there for a much larger mission."

Check out Deepika’s badass avatar right here: