YouTuber who kissed unknown girls on the streets to make 'prank' videos faces jail
YouTuber who made 'prank' kissing videos now faces jail 


Amidst an outrage over New Year Eve mass molestation in Bengaluru and similar incidents in the national capital, a 'prank' video posted on YouTube in which a man tries to kiss girls randomly has invited criticism and prompted Delhi Police to start an investigation into the matter.

Sumit Raj, who claims to work with Facebook and is a DPS, RK Puram alumnus had uploaded his video on YouTube in which he randomly kissed women on the streets and ran away.

The video was apparently shot in Connaught Place and uploaded on his Youtube channel 'The Crazy Sumit'.

Sumit Raj runs a YouTube channel titled 'The Crazy Sumit'

He had titled the video as the 'funniest Indian YouTube prank of 2017'.

Shockingly, more than 2,000 people had liked the video. Many also downloaded it and shared it on other social media websites.

Netizens soon noticed the video and asked the authorities to take action as it amounted to sexual assault in the garb of humour.

The video was quickly picked up by media houses and caused outrage on social media websites, forcing Sumit to delete the video and apologise.

However, the video has also been noticed by the Delhi Police and cops said they are examining its technical aspects such as details of service providers and criminal liability.

The video, which is now deleted had received 2000 views and was shared at various platforms

Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal slammed the video on her Twitter handle.

'The video has come to Delhi Police's notice through media. We have started the initial technical inquiry. This obscene video is available on Facebook and Youtube links and we are probing this,' said Dependra Pathak, Delhi Police Spokesperson and Joint Commissioner of Police (Southwest).

Another police officer said that so far none of the victims have approached the cops.

Once they seek police action, the accused will be booked under the section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code, said officials.

After receiving backlash, Sumit deleted the original video from his channel and uploaded an apology video saying it was just meant for 'entertainment' and he did not understand it has hurt so many people.

It was learnt that Sumit's channel - The Crazy Sumit also has several such videos with titles like 'Seducing Girl Prank (Gone Horribly Wrong )' and 'Seducing Girl Prank on DAD'.