You Can Soon Hold Your Wedding Reception On The Platforms Of Indian Railway Stations!
You Can Soon Hold Your Wedding Reception On The Platforms Of Indian Railway Stations!
You Can Soon Hold Your Wedding Reception On The Platforms Of Indian Railway Stations! The Indian Railways is desperate to get out of the red this year, and is clearly going thinking out of the box (or the coach) to achieve it. The Western Railways is planning to allow anyone to host wedding receptions on its platforms at the Surat station. This week will see a proposal sent to the rail ministry, sources told Deccan Chronicle. Along with , other stations selected to host wedding receptions include like Navapur. A senior railway official said, "Surat station is massive, and there are people there who would actually pay to have their wedding receptions or parties on platforms as well. We will propose platform no. 4 for the project as it has two-three booking offices, which is ideal for these kinds of functions." With the onset of the 2017 wedding season just 6 months away, Railway officials are eager to launch the idea.  WR divisional railway manager Mukul Jain said, "We are waiting for a policy that will help outline how we are to go about it." Thieves Have Stolen 1100 'Lotas' From Train Toilets In The Last Three Months!

The Indian Railways is desperate to get out of the red this year, and is clearly going thinking out of the box (or the coach) to achieve it.

chrissylong flickr

The Western Railways is planning to allow anyone to host wedding receptions on its platforms at the Surat station. This week will see a proposal sent to the rail ministry, sources told Deccan Chronicle.

Along with Surat station's Platform 4, other stations selected to host wedding receptions include like Navapur.

The innovative idea was forwarded after a result of brainstorming sessions on increasing profitability across 16 railway zone.

A senior railway official said, "Surat station is massive, and there are people there who would actually pay to have their wedding receptions or parties on platforms as well. We will propose platform no. 4 for the project as it has two-three booking offices, which is ideal for these kinds of functions."



With the onset of the 2017 wedding season just 6 months away, Railway officials are eager to launch the idea. WR divisional railway manager Mukul Jain said, "We are waiting for a policy that will help outline how we are to go about it."

Also read

Thieves Have Stolen 1100 'Lotas' From Train Toilets In The Last Three Months!