Senior Trump Official Monica Crowley Accused of Plagiarizing Her 2009 Book
Senior Trump Official Monica Crowley Accused of Plagiarizing Her 2009 Book
Monica Crowley , the ex Fox News pundit who’s expected to play a vital role in Donald Trump’s incoming administration, has been accused of plagiarism by CNN’s Andrew Kacyznski . After reviewing her 2012 book “What The (Bleep) Just Happened,” the reporter found a whopping 50 examples in which Crowley directly plagiarized words from the the the the and . The best-selling book, which is a biting critique of President Obama’s first year in office, also borrowed words from noted conservatives like Karl Rove and Andrew McCarthy while failing to include any kind of notes or bibliography. Monica Crowley was a Fox News contributor when she plagiarized Fox News reporter James Rosen https://t.co/sIru1SH3dU  pic.twitter.com/J3MjH8x6L8 Here is Monica Crowley’s plagiarized list of silly things in the stimulus. None of them were in the stimulus. pic.twitter.com/wJbGv8zCtb Both HarperCollins, the publisher that released Crowley’s book, and Crowley herself have yet to comment on the startling revelations. Trump’s transition team however, was quick to come to the defense of the president-elect’s future Director of Strategic Communications for the National Security Council. “Monica’s exceptional insight and thoughtful work on how to turn this country around is exactly why she will be serving in the Administration,” a statement from the transition team read. “HarperCollins—one of the largest and most respected publishers in the world—published her book which has become a national best-seller. Any attempt to discredit Monica is nothing more than a politically motivated attack that seeks to distract from the real issues facing this country.” Twitter, of course, was less forgiving: Having worked with her at msnbc I am startled to find she had ever read anything https://t.co/Li11lblGgD Side-by-side comparisons at bottom of story make this a case-closed matter. Plagiarized as charged. Nice work CNN. https://t.co/SKmfoCfi8s Trump originally tapped Monica Crowley for a national security communications role, but he's decided to make her Melania's speech writer. We're supposed to trust Monica Crowley, a woman who steals & claims other people's work as her own & for profit, with our national security? We'll update as more information becomes available.

Monica Crowley, the ex Fox News pundit who’s expected to play a vital role in Donald Trump’s incoming administration, has been accused of plagiarism by CNN’s Andrew Kacyznski. After reviewing her 2012 book “What The (Bleep) Just Happened,” the KFile reporter found a whopping 50 examples in which Crowley directly plagiarized words from the BBC, Wall Street Journal, Politico, the New York Post, the Associated Press, the New York Times, Yahoo News, and Fox News. The best-selling book, which is a biting critique of President Obama’s first year in office, also borrowed words from noted conservatives like Karl Rove and Andrew McCarthy while failing to include any kind of notes or bibliography.

Monica Crowley was a Fox News contributor when she plagiarized Fox News reporter James Rosen https://t.co/sIru1SH3dU pic.twitter.com/J3MjH8x6L8 — Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) January 7, 2017

Here is Monica Crowley’s plagiarized list of silly things in the stimulus. None of them were in the stimulus. pic.twitter.com/wJbGv8zCtb — Michael Grunwald (@MikeGrunwald) January 7, 2017

Both HarperCollins, the publisher that released Crowley’s book, and Crowley herself have yet to comment on the startling revelations. Trump’s transition team however, was quick to come to the defense of the president-elect’s future Director of Strategic Communications for the National Security Council.

“Monica’s exceptional insight and thoughtful work on how to turn this country around is exactly why she will be serving in the Administration,” a statement from the transition team read. “HarperCollins—one of the largest and most respected publishers in the world—published her book which has become a national best-seller. Any attempt to discredit Monica is nothing more than a politically motivated attack that seeks to distract from the real issues facing this country.”

Twitter, of course, was less forgiving:

Having worked with her at msnbc I am startled to find she had ever read anything https://t.co/Li11lblGgD — Keith Olbermann (@KeithOlbermann) January 7, 2017

Side-by-side comparisons at bottom of story make this a case-closed matter. Plagiarized as charged. Nice work CNN. https://t.co/SKmfoCfi8s — Eric Lipton (@EricLiptonNYT) January 7, 2017

Trump originally tapped Monica Crowley for a national security communications role, but he's decided to make her Melania's speech writer. — Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) January 8, 2017

We're supposed to trust Monica Crowley, a woman who steals & claims other people's work as her own & for profit, with our national security? — Tanya (@tgreene319) January 7, 2017

We'll update as more information becomes available.