Reminder That Chrissy Teigen And John Legend Have The Cutest Baby Of All Time
Reminder That Chrissy Teigen And John Legend Have The Cutest Baby Of All Time
Hi there! Just me here, reminding you that Chrissy Teigen and John Legend’s baby, Luna Simone Stephens, is the cutest celebrity baby in all the world.  View on Instagram A literal angel. She’s been stealing hearts since the moment she was born.  View on Instagram It’s unsurprising considering her mother is Chrissy Teigen, but Luna has the whole posing thing DOWN.  View on Instagram Just look at her recline in this perfectly Instagrammable, perfectly lit chair like she’s been doing it for years (which she hasn’t, because she’s only a few months old).  View on Instagram And look at her work this fluffy rug!  View on Instagram She definitely killed it the first time with the whole Halloween thing, and was totally unbothered by it.  View on Instagram In fact, she looks so cute in costumes, that she had to try on loads of them just for our enjoyment.  View on Instagram Look how cute she is as Alice in Wonderland!  View on Instagram She takes after Chrissy Teigen, so the likelihood is that she’ll grow up to be amazing in the kitchen.  View on Instagram And, let’s be honest, she’s a born Legend (lol), so she’ll probably be incredible at music too.  View on Instagram Her smile is the most adorable thing on the planet, tbh.  View on Instagram And despite the fact that she’s only a few months old, she’s already owning the fashion game.  View on Instagram Pineapples are so hot right now. She just had her first Christmas, and still managed to do the whole Santa thing better than Santa himself.  View on Instagram AND she made sure he knew it.  View on Instagram She is totally chill about her life as a celebrity baby, like when she sees pictures of her dad on the front of magazines.  View on Instagram And she’s completely unfazed by the whole private jet situation.  View on Instagram In conclusion, here’s another picture, just to prove she’s the cutest ever.  View on Instagram The End.  View on Instagram   23 Quirks That People From The North Don’t Realise...    This Emoji Test Will Reveal If You're More Type A Or...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.