Martin Shkreli's Twitter account suspended after he posts creepy photo collage
Martin Shkreli's Twitter account suspended after he posts creepy photo collage
Martin Shkreli is kicking off 2017 with unsurprising flair. The former pharmaceutical executive's Twitter account was suspended Sunday, not long after he updated his profile with a creepy photo collage of editor Lauren Duca. SEE ALSO: 'Of course' Martin Shkreli would raise drug prices again How is this allowed @jack  pic.twitter.com/Wof8MlYHTL — Lauren Duca (@laurenduca) January 8, 2017 When asked for comment by , Shkreli inquired "what is being mashed." Twitter confirmed that Shkreli's account had been temporarily suspended as a result of his harassing Duca. Shkreli can appeal his suspension and have his account reinstated, so long as he makes necessary changes, including dropping the Photoshopped image of Shkreli and Duca cuddling on a couch. "The Twitter Rules prohibit targeted harassment, and we will take action on accounts violating those policies," a Twitter spokesperson told Duca, who accused Shkreli of "targeted harassment," said he "absolutely deserves" the suspension. But she added that Twitter needs to work harder to block trolls from their relentless quests of intimidation and abuse. "Trolling seems to be an automatic occupational hazard for female writers who receive any level of professional attention," she said in a statement to  Martin Shkreli has been suspended from Twitter pic.twitter.com/LFETGG5EhD — niall (@niall__oshea) January 8, 2017 Shkreli initially messaged Duca on Jan. 5 after the editor sparred with Fox News host Tucker Carlson. The TV interview ended with Carlson telling Duca to " stick to the thigh-high boots ." Shkreli — once dubbed the " world's most hated man " for his decision to hike up the price of an anti-parasite drug used by HIV patients — later invited Duca to join him at President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration on Jan. 20. Duca replied that she "would rather eat my own organs" than attend the event with the 33-year-old Wu-Tang aficionado and ex-CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals. I would rather eat my own organs pic.twitter.com/IgeCRZqk8w — Lauren Duca (@laurenduca) January 5, 2017 This apparently prompted Shkreli to update his Twitter profile with the bizarre photo collage. Duca, who separately received death threats after her interview with Carlson, said she was undeterred by Shkreli's Twitter harassment. "For any of my personal aggressors reading this: Would I rather you leave me alone? Of course!" she said. "But know that you will never, ever silence me. Every one of your messages only serves to strengthen my resolve. I promise to never stop fighting."  BONUS: Michelle Obama tears up during final speech as First Lady

Martin Shkreli is kicking off 2017 with unsurprising flair.

The former pharmaceutical executive's Twitter account was suspended Sunday, not long after he updated his profile with a creepy photo collage of Teen Vogue editor Lauren Duca.

When asked for comment by Mashable, Shkreli inquired "what is being mashed."

Twitter confirmed that Shkreli's account had been temporarily suspended as a result of his harassing Duca.

Shkreli can appeal his suspension and have his account reinstated, so long as he makes necessary changes, including dropping the Photoshopped image of Shkreli and Duca cuddling on a couch.

"The Twitter Rules prohibit targeted harassment, and we will take action on accounts violating those policies," a Twitter spokesperson told Mashable.

Duca, who accused Shkreli of "targeted harassment," said he "absolutely deserves" the suspension. But she added that Twitter needs to work harder to block trolls from their relentless quests of intimidation and abuse.

"Trolling seems to be an automatic occupational hazard for female writers who receive any level of professional attention," she said in a statement to Mashable.

Martin Shkreli has been suspended from Twitter pic.twitter.com/LFETGG5EhD — niall (@niall__oshea) January 8, 2017

Shkreli initially messaged Duca on Jan. 5 after the Teen Vogue editor sparred with Fox News host Tucker Carlson. The TV interview ended with Carlson telling Duca to "stick to the thigh-high boots."

Shkreli — once dubbed the "world's most hated man" for his decision to hike up the price of an anti-parasite drug used by HIV patients — later invited Duca to join him at President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration on Jan. 20.

Duca replied that she "would rather eat my own organs" than attend the event with the 33-year-old Wu-Tang aficionado and ex-CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals.

I would rather eat my own organs pic.twitter.com/IgeCRZqk8w — Lauren Duca (@laurenduca) January 5, 2017

This apparently prompted Shkreli to update his Twitter profile with the bizarre photo collage.

Duca, who separately received death threats after her interview with Carlson, said she was undeterred by Shkreli's Twitter harassment.

"For any of my personal aggressors reading this: Would I rather you leave me alone? Of course!" she said. "But know that you will never, ever silence me. Every one of your messages only serves to strengthen my resolve. I promise to never stop fighting."

Mashable business editor Jason Abbruzzese contributed reporting.