Golden Globes 2017: Watch Jimmy Fallon's star studded opening musical number
Golden Globes 2017: Watch Jimmy Fallon's star studded opening musical number
With a great, big, modern musical like leading the nominations for the 2017 Golden Globes ; there was no way host Jimmy Fallon could resist sapping up just a little of the bombast. Fallon opened the ceremony by paying tribute to the Damien Chazelle-directed film's already famous opening sequence, which takes place on a congested LA highway; though Fallon's version included a few celebrity cameos from the likes of Nicole Kidman, Amy Adams, Ryan Reynolds, Kit Harington, and previous host Tina Fey. Perhaps most exciting for TV fans was seeing the kids get down for a little freestyle rap, all ending in the grand resurrection everyone was praying for: yes, Barb is back, baby!   List of Golden Globes 2017 film and television winners Justin Timberlake finally offered some parting advice; taking the time to wheel out that tried-and-tested Fallon impression he loves so much. In film, achieved an incredible, record-breaking sweep of seven wins; besting previous record holders and and winning in every category it was nominated for. Elsewhere, predicted wins came in for Isabelle Huppert for and Casey Affleck for , while nabbed Best Drama. #GoldenGlobes : Watch the Stranger Things kids, Justin Timberlake and more in @ JimmyFallon 's opening https://t.co/3LXEaXfc4q  pic.twitter.com/QH1Y4EZzPB TV was largely dominated by British-style fare in the dramatic genre, with wins for both and ; while Donald Glover's sublime fared well in the comedy category. also continued its winning streak from the Emmys, with an unsurprising (but deserving) win for Sarah Paulson. You can read the complete list of winners here . More about: Golden Globes Comments

With a great, big, modern musical like La La Land leading the nominations for the 2017 Golden Globes; there was no way host Jimmy Fallon could resist sapping up just a little of the bombast.

Fallon opened the ceremony by paying tribute to the Damien Chazelle-directed film's already famous opening sequence, which takes place on a congested LA highway; though Fallon's version included a few celebrity cameos from the likes of Nicole Kidman, Amy Adams, Ryan Reynolds, Kit Harington, and previous host Tina Fey.

Perhaps most exciting for TV fans was seeing the Stranger Things kids get down for a little freestyle rap, all ending in the grand resurrection everyone was praying for: yes, Barb is back, baby!

Justin Timberlake finally offered some parting advice; taking the time to wheel out that tried-and-tested Fallon impression he loves so much.

In film, La La Land achieved an incredible, record-breaking sweep of seven wins; besting previous record holders Midnight Express and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and winning in every category it was nominated for. Elsewhere, predicted wins came in for Isabelle Huppert for Elle and Casey Affleck for Manchester by the Sea, while Moonlight nabbed Best Drama.



TV was largely dominated by British-style fare in the dramatic genre, with wins for both The Crown and The Night Manager; while Donald Glover's sublime Atlanta fared well in the comedy category. The People vs OJ Simpson also continued its winning streak from the Emmys, with an unsurprising (but deserving) win for Sarah Paulson.

You can read the complete list of winners here.