Watch the Cast of 'Stranger Things' Spit Bars at the Golden Globes
Watch the Cast of 'Stranger Things' Spit Bars at the Golden Globes
The cast of won the 2017 Golden Globes before a single award was handed out. During the ceremony’s opener Sunday night, the kids of the hit Netflix series took part in a musical parody of , and immediately stole the show with their rapping skills. “OK, my name is Eleven, I’m 24/7, I'm eating Eggo waffles by the pound/I got a knack to rap about Stranger Things that happen inside the Upside Down,” 12-year-old actress Millie Brown rapped. “You're my best friends forever, Dustin, Mike, and Lucas, and together we know how to survive.” Brown’s co-stars Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, and Finn Wolfhard assisted in the rap, revealing some major news about the show’s breakout character: “I’ve got a little secret, don’t repeat or tweet it. Barb is still alive.” Yes, as many suspected, Barb (played by Shannon Purse) did not perish in the Upside Down. Following the kids’ rap, we see Barb rise from a swimming pool in all her awkward glory. We hope this means we’ll see more of Barb in season 2 . You can check out the cast rap in the clip above. And if you thought those bars were impressive, check out Brown killing Nicki Minaj's "Monster" verse in the video below.

The cast of Stranger Things won the 2017 Golden Globes before a single award was handed out.

During the ceremony’s opener Sunday night, the kids of the hit Netflix series took part in a musical parody of La La Land, and immediately stole the show with their rapping skills.

“OK, my name is Eleven, I’m 24/7, I'm eating Eggo waffles by the pound/I got a knack to rap about Stranger Things that happen inside the Upside Down,” 12-year-old actress Millie Brown rapped. “You're my best friends forever, Dustin, Mike, and Lucas, and together we know how to survive.”

Brown’s co-stars Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, and Finn Wolfhard assisted in the rap, revealing some major news about the show’s breakout character: “I’ve got a little secret, don’t repeat or tweet it. Barb is still alive.”

Yes, as many suspected, Barb (played by Shannon Purse) did not perish in the Upside Down.

Following the kids’ rap, we see Barb rise from a swimming pool in all her awkward glory. We hope this means we’ll see more of Barb in season 2.

You can check out the Stranger Things cast rap in the clip above. And if you thought those bars were impressive, check out Brown killing Nicki Minaj's "Monster" verse in the video below.