Golden Globes 2017: Moonlight wins for best drama as La La Land cleans up – as it happened

in Los Angeles and in New York                                       Benjamin Lee So here’s what we can learn from tonight: La La Land is the film to beat at this stage and Hollywood does love to reward a musical so it’s likely to win the most Oscars next month but … Moonlight sneaking in with a surprise win for best motion picture drama does suggest that it could be an Oscars contender too Manchester by the Sea has lost a bit of steam after tonight with Casey Affleck still the favourite for best actor, but Michelle Williams and director Kenneth Lonergan likely to miss out on Oscars Isabelle Huppert is now the not-so-dark horse for a best actress win, but will the Academy reward such a difficult film? The night was a fitting finale for a great year for diversity on the small screen with Atlanta, its star Donald Glover and Tracee Ellis Ross all winning HFPA voters like them some Tom Ford perfume Updated       WINNER: Moonlight, best motion picture – drama Benjamin Lee Success! Despite being shut out of all the other awards, Moonlight has won the main award of the night and it’s a hugely deserving win. A standing ovation from the audience implies that it’s also a popular result at the ceremony. Barry Jenkins, as eloquent as ever, will hopefully be accepting an Oscar next month. And that’s the last award of the night! Updated       WINNER: Isabelle Huppert (Elle), best actress in a motion picture – drama Benjamin Lee Woah! Insane and brilliant surprise here that Huppert wins for her performance in the pitch black rape revenge comedy from Paul Verhoeven. She is equally shocked and it’s a fascinatingly barmy choice from the HFPA. She was an outsider for an Oscar nomination but now this seems like it will happen for sure. Isabelle Huppert totally guffawed at Leonardo DiCaprio’s pronunciation of her name as well which needs a gif right away. Oh and she carried on talking even after the sound cut out. Updated       We are all Denzel right now: Someone please let Denzel go to bed #GoldenGlobes  pic.twitter.com/nTdtoYWiyW      WINNER: Casey Affleck (Manchester by the Sea), best actor in a motion picture – drama Benjamin Lee The favourite for the award has managed to combat negative publicity from sexual harassment claims made back in 2010 to win big tonight and may well continue to do the same at the Oscars next month. He’s already apologised for his bedraggled appearance on the red carpet, which is for a film he is currently shooting. He likened it to looking like a caveman. Awkward music cutting him off again. Updated       Benjamin Lee RECORD ALERT: La La Land is now the most awarded film in Golden Globes history. It has picked up seven awards, beating the previous shared record of six wins by One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest and Midnight Express. Updated       Benjamin Lee Here’s Peter Bradshaw’s five-star review of La La Land from its debut at last year’s Venice film festival: Updated       WINNER: La La Land, best motion picture – comedy or musical Benjamin Lee And there you are. The Globes does love a chance to justify the addition of the word “musical” to this category but it’s also a deserving winner. Every single winner from the film has crowbarred in a narrative about how daring the film is and what a risk it was to make it. But, come on, it’s a starry musical, a genre that typically picks up awards and scores well at the box office. So lay off that one, yeah? Updated       Benjamin Lee SECOND BEST GIF OF THE NIGHT! That awkward moment when you both go in for a hug at the same time 😩 #GoldenGlobes  pic.twitter.com/k8Mgv2HUbO      Benjamin Lee Streep isn’t the only actor to call out Trump tonight. Viola Davis also had this to say: Viola Davis also addressed Trump backstage, FYI. Here’s what she said about ensuring we don’t lose the social progress we’ve made: pic.twitter.com/CqFlN5vZeZ      Benjamin Lee And here’s the speech that everyone will be talking about tomorrow: At tonight's #GoldenGlobes we honor Hollywood legend Meryl Streep with the prestigious Cecil B. Demille Award. pic.twitter.com/dxpeCDNXY6      WINNER: Emma Stone (La La Land), best actress in a motion picture – comedy or musical Benjamin Lee More La La Land! A very deserving Emma Stone whose performance in the musical is a real career highlight. She’s tearful and genuine and it helps her path to winning the best actress Oscar but that also depends on who wins the Globe for best actress in a drama ... Updated       Benjamin Lee People are ANGRY about Moonlight being left out in the cold: I don't understand. #Moonlight ! #JusticeForMoonlight Ugh #LaLaLand  #Bloated  #JusticeForMoonlight #JusticeforMoonlight      Benjamin Lee I did promise you this and now you can take a look. The funniest moment from tonight’s largely not-that-funny show: Kristen Wiig and Steve Carell talking about divorce and dead pets: Updated       WINNER: Donald Glover (Atlanta), best actor in a TV series – comedy or musical Benjamin Lee More love for Atlanta! A refreshing change here for a category that often cheats by giving the award to Jeffrey Tambor for starring in Transparent, a drama with comedic elements. Glover is overwhelmed again. He said: “I grew up in a house where magic wasn’t allowed so everyone in here is magic.” He talks about doing things that he never thought possible. Good speech and shows that the small screen choices continue to be a tad more daring than the movie picks. Updated       WINNER: Damien Chazelle (La La Land), best director Benjamin Lee And yeah, we saw this one coming. It’s a big night for the romantic musical and the 31-year-old picks up his second award for the night. He got played off with a musical cue, which seemed a tad harsh. Which also means that it looks as if Moonlight might go away empty-handed tonight, despite being the most rewarded film of the season so far from the critics circles. It also means that La La Land has really improved its chances at the Oscars. Updated  Topics  Golden Globes 2017   Golden Globes   Awards and prizes   US television   Television     La La Land   Stranger Things   Manchester by the Sea   Moonlight   The Crown   Emma Stone   Casey Affleck   Ryan Gosling   Meryl Streep   Westworld

04:04

Success! Despite being shut out of all the other awards, Moonlight has won the main award of the night and it’s a hugely deserving win.

A standing ovation from the audience implies that it’s also a popular result at the ceremony. Barry Jenkins, as eloquent as ever, will hopefully be accepting an Oscar next month. And that’s the last award of the night!