How to see every photo your friends have ever liked on Facebook
How to see every photo your friends have ever liked on Facebook 
acebook appears to enjoy making us all cringe by constantly resurfacing random old photos with its On This Day feature and now another little-known feature could prove to be equally embarrassing. There is a simple way to see every photo you have ever liked on Facebook, as well as all the photos your friends, family and significant other have liked too. f you spend most of your time on the social network liking cute animal photos then you needn’t worry - but if you’re horrified by the thought of your friends seeing your photo liking history it could be a good time to start hitting the unlike button. eeing all the photos you’ve ever liked is easy, all you need to do is head to the tool bar at the top of your Facebook profile and search: “Photos liked by me.” If you want to see all the images your friends have liked then type in “Photos liked by…” followed by the person’s name. ou can even filter the photos by year, place and who they were posted by, so you can enjoy spending hours looking at all the photos you’ve liked since joining the social network. The photo search is just the latest in a number of not well-known Facebook features which have been both delighting and horrifying users in recent weeks. ast month, many found out about a "secret" Facebook inbox most of us don't know about - and it may contain messages you'd like to read, but had no idea you'd received. You can also see anyone who has ever rejected you on Facebook by following these four simple steps. o you think you are you addicted to Facebook? There could be a perfectly reasonable explanation why you can’t stop scrolling through your newsfeed, according to research. Meanwhile, do you have what it takes to work for Facebook? This interview question will test exactly that.

Facebook appears to enjoy making us all cringe by constantly resurfacing random old photos with its On This Day feature and now another little-known feature could prove to be equally embarrassing.

There is a simple way to see every photo you have ever liked on Facebook, as well as all the photos your friends, family and significant other have liked too.