Michigan city scoops another's ice cream record
Michigan city scoops another's ice cream record
Tweet     Stumble     Email  -- Moo-ve over: One Michigan city has officially claimed another’s ice cream world record. The Muskegon Chronicle reports that Moo-ville Creamery in Nashville has been recognized by Guinness World Records for staging the longest ice cream sundae in September. Three months earlier, the massive dessert in the Lake Michigan town of Ludington organized by the House of Flavors measured roughly 2,970 feet long and fed thousands of people along eight blocks. Nashville, more than 100 miles to the southeast, broke that record by making a dessert that spanned 3,656 feet. “There was 864 gallons of MOO-ville ice cream! Add on 36 gallons of chocolate syrup, 56 gallons of strawberries, 172 cans of whip cream & 7,200 MI cherries...weighing in at over 5,400 pounds! And of course, thousands of ice cream lovers,” the creamery posted on Facebook last week. 3,627 feet later and Nashville Route 66 Business District beat the Guinness Book of World Records Longest Ice Cream... Moo-ville manager Tina Westendorp says she and others traveled to Ludington to see how it was done. Nashville’s main thoroughfare wasn’t long enough so organizers had to create two dessert tracks next to each other.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

LUDINGTON, Mich. -- Moo-ve over: One Michigan city has officially claimed another’s ice cream world record.



The Muskegon Chronicle reports that Moo-ville Creamery in Nashville has been recognized by Guinness World Records for staging the longest ice cream sundae in September.



Three months earlier, the massive dessert in the Lake Michigan town of Ludington organized by the House of Flavors measured roughly 2,970 feet long and fed thousands of people along eight blocks. Nashville, more than 100 miles to the southeast, broke that record by making a dessert that spanned 3,656 feet.

“There was 864 gallons of MOO-ville ice cream! Add on 36 gallons of chocolate syrup, 56 gallons of strawberries, 172 cans of whip cream & 7,200 MI cherries...weighing in at over 5,400 pounds! And of course, thousands of ice cream lovers,” the creamery posted on Facebook last week.

3,627 feet later and Nashville Route 66 Business District beat the Guinness Book of World Records Longest Ice Cream... Posted by MOO-Ville Creamery on Monday, January 2, 2017

Moo-ville manager Tina Westendorp says she and others traveled to Ludington to see how it was done. Nashville’s main thoroughfare wasn’t long enough so organizers had to create two dessert tracks next to each other.