Golden Globes 2017: La La Land makes history as stars take aim at Donald Trump



Golden Globes 2017: La La Land makes history as stars take aim at Donald Trump

Updated

La La Land has danced off with a record seven Golden Globes in a ceremony marked by surprises and a stinging indictment of US President-elect Donald Trump by actress Meryl Streep.

The romantic musical about a struggling actress and a jazz pianist trying to make it in Hollywood took home the award for best comedy/musical, and also netted Globes for its stars Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone and director Damien Chazelle.

The hit also picked up gongs for screenplay, score and original song, and topped the previous record of six Golden Globes won, which was shared by One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest in 1975 and Midnight Express in 1978.

"This is a film for dreamers and I think that hope and creativity are the most important things in the world," Stone said while accepting her award.

Gosling, who joked it was not the first time he had been mistaken for fellow nominee Ryan Reynolds, dedicated his award to the late brother of his partner, Eva Mendes.

"While I was singing and dancing and playing piano and having one of the best experiences I've ever had on a film, my lady was raising our daughter, pregnant with our second and trying to help her brother fight his battle with cancer," he said, referring to Juan Carlos Mendes.

Moonlight wins best drama as Aussies miss out

Independent coming-of-age film Moonlight was named best drama movie, while Casey Affleck, star of Manchester by the Sea, won best drama actor for his role as a man riven by grief.

Nicole Kidman, Joel Edgerton and Mel Gibson lead the field of Australian hopefuls on the night, but none managed to take home an award.

Kidman was nominated for her role in Lion, but hot favourite Davis scored the gong for her turn as Rose Maxson in the Denzel Washington-directed Fences.

Davis and Washington both won Tony Awards in 2010 for their performances in the revival of the August Wilson play.

Gibson's war film Hacksaw Ridge was looking to add to its five AACTA Awards last month, but Gibson missed out on best director of a motion picture and lost to Moonlight for best drama film.

Edgerton was nominated the best actor in a drama category for his role in Loving, a film about an interracial relationship in 1950s America, but lost out to Affleck.

Streep takes aim at Trump

A broken teleprompter initially stalled host Jimmy Fallon, who still managed to start the show with a singing-and-dancing ode to La La Land and a steady diet of Donald Trump jokes.

"Cut to Justin Timberlake, please," implored a desperate Fallon as he improvised while another teleprompter was brought in.

Fallon directed barbs at the US President-elect. His first line was introducing the Globes as "one of the few places left where America still honours the popular vote".

But the evening's most dramatic moments came from Streep, the most admired actress of her generation, while accepting her lifetime achievement award.

Although the three-time Oscar winner never mentioned Mr Trump's name, she said the most heartbreaking performance of 2016 came "when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter".

"It kind of broke my heart when I saw it and I still can't get it out of my head because it wasn't in a movie. It was real life," Streep said.

Arguing for the multinational makeup of Hollywood, Streep listed off the far-flung homes of stars from Dev Patel to Gosling.

"Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners and if you kick them all out, you'll have nothing to watch but football and mixed martial arts, which are not the arts," Streep said to loud applause.

Mr Trump responded to Streep's comments in a phone interview with The New York Times, labelling her "a Hillary lover".

The President-elect said he had not seen the Globes broadcast but was not surprised he was under fire from "liberal movie people".

Fan favourite Hugh Laurie won best supporting actor for his role as Richard Onslow Roper in British spy drama The Night Manager, based on the John le Carre novel of the same name.

Laurie managed to also land a dig at Mr Trump, joking that it would be his last Golden Globes as it was run by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association.

"I accept this award on behalf of psychopathic billionaires everywhere," Laurie said.

Night of diversity celebrated

Coming a year after a second-straight of OscarsSoWhite protests, the night was notable for the widespread diversity of its winners, in film and TV.

Donald Glover's Atlanta won best comedy series over heavyweights like Veep and Transparent, and Glover later added best actor in a comedy.

Glover, also known as rapper Childish Gambino, looked visibly surprised.

"I really want to thank Atlanta and all the black folks in Atlanta," he said. "I couldn't be here without Atlanta."

Tracee Ellis Ross, accepting the award for best actress in a comedy for Black-ish, dedicated her award to "all of the women of colour and colourful people whose stories, ideas, thoughts are not always considered worthy and valid and important".

"I want you to know that I see you, we see you," she said.

British actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson took best supporting actor for his performance in Tom Ford's Nocturnal Animals.

It was a surprise that Taylor-Johnson was even nominated, so his win over favourites Mahershala Ali from Moonlight and Jeff Bridges from Hell or High Water was a shock.

The People v OJ Simpson took out best miniseries, as well as an award for Sarah Paulson as best actress.

Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher remembered

The ceremony broke one tradition, adding an In memoriam section to pay tribute to the late Debbie Reynolds and her daughter Carrie Fisher.

The tribute featured a selection of film clips featuring Reynolds and Fisher and accompanied by Reynolds' song You Made Me Love You from the 1973 play Irene.

It comes two days after the pair was farewelled by stars at a private ceremony in the Hollywood Hills.

Topics: arts-and-entertainment, film-movies, television, united-states

First posted