The $1 Accessory Michelle Williams and Sienna Miller Rocked on the Golden Globes Red Carpet
The $1 Accessory Michelle Williams and Sienna Miller Rocked on the Golden Globes Red Carpet
For the Golden Globe awards, most stars opt for expensive jewelry and accessories for their red carpet appearances. However, some fashion trailblazers opt for chic necklaces and hair accessories that anyone can purchase. Michelle Williams , a contender for the Best Supporting Actress award for her performance in looked stunning in a white lace off-the-shoulder Louis Vuitton gown. She accessorized with a unique choker-inspired black ribbon necklace. Sienna Miller’s look was also all about simple but striking accessories; the actress styled her hair in a high ponytail tied with a black ribbon and wore oversized pearls. Beaded beauty: #SiennaMiller wears a beaded gown on the @goldenglobes red carpet pic.twitter.com/X4znLyQKgZ — Baz Bamigboye (@BazBam) January 9, 2017 Miller’s black ribbon and clutch offered a nice contrast to her white gown, which featured cutouts. And while their ribbons probably weren’t purchased at Michael’s and were made of some expensive materials, the ribbon trend is one of the few red carpet elements that anyone on a budget can emulate!

For the Golden Globe awards, most stars opt for expensive jewelry and accessories for their red carpet appearances. However, some fashion trailblazers opt for chic necklaces and hair accessories that anyone can purchase.

Michelle Williams, a contender for the Best Supporting Actress award for her performance in Manchester by the Sea, looked stunning in a white lace off-the-shoulder Louis Vuitton gown. She accessorized with a unique choker-inspired black ribbon necklace.

Sienna Miller’s look was also all about simple but striking accessories; the actress styled her hair in a high ponytail tied with a black ribbon and wore oversized pearls.

Beaded beauty: #SiennaMiller wears a beaded gown on the @goldenglobes red carpet pic.twitter.com/X4znLyQKgZ — Baz Bamigboye (@BazBam) January 9, 2017





Miller’s black ribbon and clutch offered a nice contrast to her white gown, which featured cutouts.

And while their ribbons probably weren’t purchased at Michael’s and were made of some expensive materials, the ribbon trend is one of the few red carpet elements that anyone on a budget can emulate!

More: Vote for Best and Worst Dressed at the Golden Globes

Follow us on Instagram , Facebook , and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.