Golden Globes 2017: Tracee Ellis Ross' Historic Win 'Means a Lot'
Tracee Ellis Ross' Historic Golden Globes Win 'Means a Lot'
Shares                Tracee Ellis Ross ' best actress in a TV comedy Golden Globe was her first, but also, it marked the first time that an African-American woman picked up the award since Debbie Allen did so in 1983. When informed of that news backstage, the "Black-ish" star was stunned. "It means a lot," she told reporters, adding that she felt "special" to be grouped in with Allen. "I'm going to have to ponder [it] for the next couple days. More of it is for our industry to ponder. The work is there. The stories are there."         Meanwhile, Allen sounded off about Ross's win on social media, tweeting, "Wow! Love to you @TraceeEllisRoss Bravo!!" Ross, 44, said in her acceptance speech that she was dedicating her win to "women of color and colorful people whose stories, ideas, and thoughts are not always considered worthy and valid and important." "I want you to know that I see you," she said. "We see you."  Wow! Love to you @TraceeEllisRoss Bravo!! Kudos to @IssaRae and to @HereIsGina What a strong category ??????????????????? #GoldenGlobes   Congrats Issa & Tracee on well-deserved @goldenglobes nominations! Win-win either way! #tbt last time a black woman won this category ;) pic.twitter.com/FupdxtoyPL  Shares                  Tracee Ellis Ross' Historic Golden Globes Win 'Means a Lot'   One-of-a-Kind Comic Book Store Owner Gets Her Own Special Cover   Lady Gaga's Sales Surge 1,000 Percent After Halftime Show   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Inside Lady Gaga's Airbnb Super Bowl Home   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   Wahlberg FaceTimes Ludacris, Usher After Patriots Win   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   Princess Kate Shares Parenting Advice During School Visit   Queen Elizabeth II Marks 65 Years on Throne   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says

Tracee Ellis Ross' best actress in a TV comedy Golden Globe was her first, but also, it marked the first time that an African-American woman picked up the award since Debbie Allen did so in 1983.

When informed of that news backstage, the "Black-ish" star was stunned.

"It means a lot," she told reporters, adding that she felt "special" to be grouped in with Allen. "I'm going to have to ponder [it] for the next couple days. More of it is for our industry to ponder. The work is there. The stories are there."

Meanwhile, Allen sounded off about Ross's win on social media, tweeting, "Wow! Love to you @TraceeEllisRoss Bravo!!"

Ross, 44, said in her acceptance speech that she was dedicating her win to "women of color and colorful people whose stories, ideas, and thoughts are not always considered worthy and valid and important."

"I want you to know that I see you," she said. "We see you."