Beloved California Giant Sequoia Tree Felled by Storm
Beloved California Giant Sequoia Tree Felled by Storm
Shares               A beloved centuries-old giant sequoia tree that wowed thousands of visitors who passed through a tunnel in its massive trunk was felled after a weekend storm brought flooding to California this weekend. The tree, nicknamed the Pioneer Cabin after its enormous size, is in Calaveras Big Trees State Park.   Its trunk was hollowed out in the 1800s as a tourist attraction, but the tree managed to survive until this weekend. Social media users reacted with shock and disappointment on hearing of the tree's demise.    Shares                  Beloved California Giant Sequoia Tree Felled by Storm   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Amnesty: As Many as 13,000 Hanged in Syria Prison Since 2011   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   NTSB Set to Release Cause of Fiery North Dakota Train Crash   Kansas Woman Runs 1st Full Mile Since Leg Amputation   Teen Admits Killing Florida Woman in London Knife Rampage   Palestinians: World Should Punish Israel for Settlement Law   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   At $250M, Los Angeles Home Most Expensive Listed in US

A beloved centuries-old giant sequoia tree that wowed thousands of visitors who passed through a tunnel in its massive trunk was felled after a weekend storm brought flooding to California this weekend.

The tree, nicknamed the Pioneer Cabin after its enormous size, is in Calaveras Big Trees State Park.

Ernest K. Bennett/AP Photo

Its trunk was hollowed out in the 1800s as a tourist attraction, but the tree managed to survive until this weekend.

Social media users reacted with shock and disappointment on hearing of the tree's demise.

ABC News' Kelly Johnstone contributed to this report.