Golden Globes 2017: Live coverage
Golden Globes 2017: Live coverage - BBC News
Thank you for joining us for this year's Golden Globe Awards, we hope you've enjoyed the coverage. Many of the winning films have not yet been released in the UK, but La La Land and Manchester By The Sea in UK cinemas from this weekend, while Moonlight and Fences will follow in February. Scroll down to catch up on the best of the night's pictures, quotes and talking points. We hope you'll join us for the Baftas and the Oscars next month, to see whether La La Land can continue its extraordinary winning streak. Read more about these links. Ian Youngs Entertainment and Arts Reporter, BBC News The fact that La La Land was the big winner is no surprise. But the style in which it dominated the film awards was utterly convincing and bodes well for the Oscars. But there were some surprises. Isabelle Huppert winning best film drama actress. Aaron Taylor-Johnson for best film supporting actor. Moonlight's best film drama award was not a surprise at such, but many didn't think a small indie film about growing up gay and black in Miami could overcome the more heavyweight Manchester By The Sea. And in the TV categories, there were plenty of British winners from The Night Manager and The Crown to cheer. The other feature of the night - while his name may not have been mentioned out loud much, there were lots of references to Donald Trump. Some were coded, some less so. Let's hope Hugh Laurie's prediction that this was the last ever Golden Globes - which are organised by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association - doesn't come true. "I don't mean to be gloomy," he said. "It's just it has 'Hollywood', 'foreign' and 'press' in the title." Read more about these links. Read more about these links. La La Land's seven wins is a new Golden Globes record. The previous best for most wins by a film was six - for 1975's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and 1978's Midnight Express. Four other films have won five awards - Doctor Zhivago, Love Story, The Godfather and A Star Is Born. Read more about these links. One of the most talked-about moments of the night came from Meryl Streep, who received this year's Cecil B DeMille award for outstanding contribution to entertainment. Streep criticised the President-elect, Donald Trump, who ran a divisive campaign last year during which he mocked a disabled reporter and made offensive comments about women and ethnic minorities. Here is what Streep had to say: There was one performance this year that stunned me. It sank its hooks in my heart. Not because it was good; there was nothing good about it. But it was effective and it did its job. It made its intended audience laugh, and show their teeth. It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter. Someone he outranked in privilege, power and the capacity to fight back. It kind of broke my heart when I saw it, and I still can’t get it out of my head, because it wasn’t in a movie. It was real life. Watch the speech in full below: Read more about these links. Well, there's certainly no denying who the night's big winner was. Hollywood musical La La Land won seven awards from seven nominations - including best musical or comedy film, while its stars Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling won acting trophies. It also won the awards for best director, screenplay, score and song. The Globes are seen as pointers to the Oscars. Moonlight was named best drama film, while Casey Affleck and Isabelle Huppert won other acting prizes. Read more. Read more about these links. The most closely-contested award of the night goes to Moonlight - a film about a young gay black man growing up in an impoverished neighbourhood in Miami. Manchester By The Sea was a close competitor - but Moonlight takes home the biggest award of the night. Neither film, however, has performed as well as La La Land - taking home an impressive seven awards across the whole night. Read more about these links. Another upset - Natalie Portman was supposed to have had this sewn up for playing Jackie Kennedy. But perhaps it should be little surprise that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (which runs the Globes) should vote for a European. Just don't necessarily expect the result to be repeated at the Oscars. Read more about these links. One of the big nominees of the night, Manchester By The Sea, has gone largely unrewarded so far tonight - but that's all changed in the closing minutes, as Casey Affleck wins one of the night's biggest prizes. It's the film's first award at this year's Globes - but it still has a shot at winning best dramatic picture. Read more about these links. The Crown and its star Claire Foy seem to be popular winners. Read more about these links. It's done it! La La Land has achieved the quite extraordinary feat of winning in all seven of the categories in which it was nominated. Read more about these links. Accepting her award, the actress says: "Hope and creativity are two of the most important things in the world and to any creative person who’s had a door slammed in their face… or anybody anywhere that feels like giving up sometimes [but] finds it in themselves to get up and keep moving forward, I share this with you.” Read more about these links. This is the second award of the night for Glover and his FX comedy. He hailed the power of TV and film to tell stories to children so they "do stuff that we never thought was possible". He said: "My dad used to tell me every day, 'You can do anything you want,' and I remember thinking as a kid in first grade, you're lying to me. "But now I do stuff and he's like, 'I didn't think that was possible.'" Read more about these links. La La Land is sweeping the board tonight - we've seen it triumph in categories such as screenplay, original score, original song, and now for its director Damien Chazelle. Can it go all the way and win best picture? Read more about these links. Meryl Streep gets a standing ovation as she receives the Cecil B Demille Award for outstanding contributions to the world of entertainment, presented to her by Viola Davis. She's a little croaky as she takes to the stage, however - explaining that she's lost her voice. Read more about these links. You might have noticed a few of the acceptance speeches are being wound up rather quickly tonight, such are the standard time constraints of a major awards ceremony. Questlove from The Roots - Jimmy Fallon's house band on his talk show - is in charge of the music tonight, and he seems to feel a bit bad about cutting people short in their prime... Read more about these links. Netflix's epic royal drama The Crown has a reported £100m budget - and now has its reward. Created by writer Peter Morgan and director Stephen Daldry, it begins before the Queen's ascension to the throne in the early 1950s. The idea is that there will be one season for every decade up to the present day - and the chances of Netflix finding an even bigger budget to make that happen have just increased significantly. Read more about these links. British actors are having a hugely successful night - with Claire Foy winning this category for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth II in Netflix's The Crown. Foy paid tribute to the monarch, saying: "She has been at the centre of the world for the past 63 years and I think the world could do with a few more women at the centre of it if you ask me." She joins Tom Hiddleston, Olivia Colman and Hugh Laurie among the British winners tonight. Read more about these links. BBC series The Night Manager was a huge success last year - and this is the first ever Golden Globe for its star, Tom Hiddleston. Read more about these links. Jimmy Fallon has just introduced a moving tribute to actresses Carrie Fisher and her mother Debbie Reynolds. They died within two days of each other last month. Read more about these links. The French thriller has won the Golden Globe - despite not even being in the running for the same category at the Oscars. It was not on the nine-film foreign language shortlist from which the five Oscar nominees will be chosen. Director Paul Verhoeven says: "I'm amazed [to win] because this film does not invite you to sympathise with the character, I thank the Hollywood Foreign Press for being so open minded." Read more about these links. A few people have been getting a teeny tiny bit of heat on Twitter for referring to "Hidden Fences" - a film that doesn't actually exist. Michael Keaton referred to the fictional film on stage, while journalist Jenna Bush Hager mentioned it to Pharell Williams - which is a little awkward given he appears on the Hidden Figures soundtrack. Read more about these links. Accepting the award, co-director Byron Howard said: "We wanted Zootopia to be a film that not only entertained kids but also spoke to adults about embracing diversity – even when there are people in the world that want to divide us by using fear.." Read more about these links. Chazelle, who also directed the musical film, says: "I'm humbled to be up here." It's the fourth award for La La Land of the night. Read more about these links. The awards are stacking up quickly for La La Land. The actor joked that he would "chop the award into three pieces" to share it with his La La Land co-star Emma Stone and the film's director Damien Chazelle. "This belongs to the three of us," he said. Read more about these links. Another surprise British winner, and another for The Night Manager, after Hugh Laurie. The rest of the world has woken up to Olivia Colman's brilliance. However, she could not be in Hollywood to accept the award. Read more about these links. The actress says: "To all the people who believed in this piece of work. It's not every day that Hollywood thinks of translating a play to screen - it doesn't scream moneymaker, you know? But it does scream art, and it does scream heart." Read more about these links. It's two musical awards in a row for La La Land! The film, which stars Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone (pictured) has been credited with reviving the musical genre. Read more about La La Land. Read more about these links. "There was this spirit across the movie where people worked harder than they’re used to working and went to bed later than they’re used to and wore more hats that they’re used to." Read more about these links. It's the second British winner of the night after Aaron Taylor-Johnson victory for his role in Nocturnal Animals. Hugh Laurie co-starred with Tom Hiddleston in The Night Manager. The series was directed by Susannce Bier, who Laurie thanked in his acceptance speech. Read more about these links. It's the second award in a row for The People vs OJ Simpson, which dramatised Simpson's murder case. Accepting the award, executive producer Nina Jacobson says the case reminded us how "American justice is anything but blind when race, gender and celebrity are involved". The BBC's The Night Manager was among the shows that lost out. Read more about these links. Sarah Paulson received rave reviews for her role in The People v OJ Simpson. She portrayed Marcia Clark - the lead prosecutor in the famous 1995 OJ Simpson case. Read more about these links. Donald Glover, the creator and star of the FX comedy, which is set in the US city of its title, said the win was "incredible". "I really want to thank Atlanta and all the black folks in Atlanta just for being alive and for being amazing people," he says. "I couldn't be here without Atlanta." Read more about these links. The actress says: "This is for all the women of colour, and colourful people, whose stories, ideas and thoughts are not always considered worthy, valid and important. But I want you to know that I see you, we see you." Read more about these links. Thronton dedicates his award to Luke Scott, a PA on Goliath who died last year. "He was one of those guys who knew what he was doing, and I loved him," the actor said. Read more about these links. The wine is flowing and the laughs are coming thick and fast as Jimmy Fallon takes up hosting duties. He's already making plenty of Donald Trump references - referring to the Golden Globes as "one of the few places left where America still honours the popular vote". He also described one of tonight's most hotly-tipped films Manchester By The Sea as "the only thing more depressing than 2016". Read more about these links. A shock to start with - this category was thought to have been in the bag for Moonlight's Mahershala Ali. But it's gone to British actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson for playing a very nasty chap in designer Tom Ford's stylish thriller Nocturnal Animals. He thanked his wife, the artist and film-maker Sam Taylor-Johnson, for her support, adding: "And thank you for putting up for me. I was not very pleasant in this role." Read more about these links. This is it - one of the biggest nights in the entertainment calendar has officially kicked off. Things are off to a rip-roaring start with presenter Jimmy Fallon and a host of special guests recreating the famous opening scene from La La Land - one of tonight's most hotly-tipped films. Read more about these links. It's safe to say that shaving was not high up Casey Affleck's agenda when he was getting ready for this year's Globes. Fresh from receiving her Hollywood Star earlier this week, Viola Davis has arrived on the red carpet. It was also good news if you're a fan of people named Naomi(e). Pitch Perfect's Anna Kendrick has also arrived. Read more about these links. This is how Hacksaw Ridge actress Teresa Palmer got ready. Olivia Culpo on Instagram: "Here's what REALLY happens while you're waiting in the car for a million years for the #GoldenGlobes carpet !!!!!" Read more about these links.

AP

The fact that La La Land was the big winner is no surprise. But the style in which it dominated the film awards was utterly convincing and bodes well for the Oscars.

But there were some surprises. Isabelle Huppert winning best film drama actress. Aaron Taylor-Johnson for best film supporting actor.

Moonlight's best film drama award was not a surprise at such, but many didn't think a small indie film about growing up gay and black in Miami could overcome the more heavyweight Manchester By The Sea.

AP

And in the TV categories, there were plenty of British winners from The Night Manager and The Crown to cheer.

The other feature of the night - while his name may not have been mentioned out loud much, there were lots of references to Donald Trump. Some were coded, some less so.

Let's hope Hugh Laurie's prediction that this was the last ever Golden Globes - which are organised by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association - doesn't come true.

"I don't mean to be gloomy," he said. "It's just it has 'Hollywood', 'foreign' and 'press' in the title."