Salman Khan Used 2 Unlicensed Guns For Blackbuck Shooting, Court To Decide His Fate On Jan 18
Salman Khan Used 2 Unlicensed Guns For Blackbuck Shooting, Court To Decide His Fate On Jan 18
Salman Khan Used 2 Unlicensed Guns For Blackbuck Shooting, Court To Decide His Fate On Jan 18 After getting acquitted for his Hit-and-Run, Salman Khan's fate will again be put to test on January 17, as the Jodhpur District Sessions Court will finally be announcing its verdict on the case under the Arms Act on illegal possession of arms and ammunition. #Correction Jodhpur District Sessions Court to announce decision on Salman Khan's Arms Act Case on January 18 The prosecution has stated that Khan was in possession of the arms with expired license in Jodhpur and used them in poaching of two blackbucks in Kankani village in 1998. Prosecution counsel Bhawani Singh Bhati argued in the court that Khan was in possession of two firearms, .22 rifle and .32 revolver, which he had sent back to Mumbai after using them in poaching. Referring to the prosecution permission against Khan under Arms Act by the then district magistrate Rajat Kumar Mishra, which the defence had termed illegal, Bhati argued that the permission given by him was based on the investigation report and examination of all the facts and evidences. "There was no question about the legality of the prosecution permission by Mishra and he also had been examined in the court, wherein he had clearly mentioned he ground for prosecution permission," argued Bhati, the Times of India reported. He also argued that the post-mortem report of the carcass had mentioning that the skin had mullet marks and those were firearms. Bhati said that arguments could not complete on Friday and he would continue arguments on Saturday.

After getting acquitted for his Hit-and-Run, Salman Khan's fate will again be put to test on January 17, as the Jodhpur District Sessions Court will finally be announcing its verdict on the case under the Arms Act on illegal possession of arms and ammunition.

#Correction Jodhpur District Sessions Court to announce decision on Salman Khan's Arms Act Case on January 18 — ANI (@ANI_news) January 9, 2017

The prosecution has stated that Khan was in possession of the arms with expired license in Jodhpur and used them in poaching of two blackbucks in Kankani village in 1998.

BCCL

Prosecution counsel Bhawani Singh Bhati argued in the court that Khan was in possession of two firearms, .22 rifle and .32 revolver, which he had sent back to Mumbai after using them in poaching.

"These were these firearms, which were in possession of Khan and he had used them in poaching of blackbucks and the two eyewitnesses Chhogaram and Sheraram had seen Khan poaching with these firearms," argued Bhati.

Referring to the prosecution permission against Khan under Arms Act by the then district magistrate Rajat Kumar Mishra, which the defence had termed illegal, Bhati argued that the permission given by him was based on the investigation report and examination of all the facts and evidences.

BCCL

"There was no question about the legality of the prosecution permission by Mishra and he also had been examined in the court, wherein he had clearly mentioned he ground for prosecution permission," argued Bhati, the Times of India reported.

He also argued that the post-mortem report of the carcass had mentioning that the skin had mullet marks and those were firearms. Bhati said that arguments could not complete on Friday and he would continue arguments on Saturday.

Inputs from the Times Of India