10 Years of iPhone: 'The Best Is Yet To Come,' Says Tim Cook
10 Years of iPhone: 'The Best Is Yet To Come,' Says Tim Cook
10 Years of iPhone: 'The Best Is Yet To Come,' Says Tim Cook The first iPhone looks like a fossilized relic, if you compare its specs with the iPhone 7 Plus -- the latest flagship iPhone from Apple. The original iPhone from 2007 boasted off a 3.5-inch screen with 480x320 pixels, 412 MHz single core CPU, 128MB RAM, 4GB storage, 2MP rear camera, no front camera, running on iOS 3.0. We sure hope so, because Apple’s iPhone juggernaut has been losing steam in the past 12 to 18 months. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 disaster , which also unravelled around the time of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus launch. This is indeed worrying for the Cupertino giant, where several international reports are blaming iPhone’s lack of revolutionary tech, compelling features and clear cut wow factor for reduced consumer interest with the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

Ten years ago, at Macworld expo in 2007, Steve Jobs took the stage to mesmerize audiences in the room and around the world with a mysterious product, “a widescreen iPod with touch controls, a revolutionary mobile phone and a breakthrough internet communications device.”

That was the original iPhone, which forever revolutionized the world of mobile connectivity.

Today, January 9, marks the tenth anniversary of iPhone’s debut. In the ten years since, iPhone has sold over one billion units in total.

The iPhone through iTunes and App Store also pioneered a unique model of software and services integration that has become the cornerstone of modern smartphones and app delivery mechanisms.

Boxes of iPhone 3G on sale in 2008, the second iPhone ever made

The first iPhone looks like a fossilized relic, if you compare its specs with the iPhone 7 Plus -- the latest flagship iPhone from Apple. The original iPhone from 2007 boasted off a 3.5-inch screen with 480x320 pixels, 412 MHz single core CPU, 128MB RAM, 4GB storage, 2MP rear camera, no front camera, running on iOS 3.0.

“iPhone set the standard for mobile computing in its first decade and we are just getting started,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “The best is yet to come.”

We sure hope so, because Apple’s iPhone juggernaut has been losing steam in the past 12 to 18 months.

Are iPhones losing relevance?

For two years now, Apple has cut iPhone productions on the back of sluggish sales -- it did so during the iPhone 6S/6S Plus market debut, and then now with the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, cutting production by up to 10%.

This production cut down from Apple is especially surprising on the back of Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 disaster, which also unravelled around the time of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus launch. This is indeed worrying for the Cupertino giant, where several international reports are blaming iPhone’s lack of revolutionary tech, compelling features and clear cut wow factor for reduced consumer interest with the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

The original iPhone from 2007 standing next to the iPhone 7 Plus -- 10 years of history

The perception of innovation

There’s also worry that Apple’s iPhone has stopped leading innovation on the smartphone front anymore, with competitors from Samsung and other Android manufacturers not only catching up but pushing beyond the iPhone in terms of innovative features.

(Also read: 7 Best Features That iPhone 7 'Stole' From Android Phones In 2016)

The iPhone 7 Plus, for instance, wasn’t the first phone to introduce features like dual cameras, water-resistant body, stereo speakers, and where it only has a quad-core chip its competitors have introduced octa-core or even deca-core chip-enabled smartphones in the market.

They may or may not work as well as the iPhone 7 Plus, but the battle of perception and bragging rights is clearly being lost by the iPhone.

Picture of iPhone 6S and 6S Plus buyers tweeted by Apple CEO Tim Cook

High demand in India for iPhone 7/Plus

Despite all the doom and gloom scenario, all isn’t lost for Apple and the iconic iPhone brand, which still has maximum pull in emerging markets like India. While official sales figures aren’t forthcoming, the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus sales spiked tremendously in India in the immediate aftermath of the November 8’s demonetisation announcement. In all probability the next iPhone will be manufactured in India, very soon if all goes to plan.

All eyes then on the upcoming iPhone 8 announcement from Apple, which will mark the 10th anniversary of iPhone later this year. The flagship iPhone 8 is expected to sport an OLED display, and plenty of other rumoured features. There’s also a strong (but unconfirmed) rumour that a white iPhone 7 Plus maybe launching soon.