Updated 2017 NFL draft order for top 24
Updated 2017 NFL draft order for top 24
Updated 2017 NFL draft order for top 24 Dont'a Hightower once again proves his value to Patriots in Super Bowl 49ers must continue to practice patience with Kyle Shanahan Aldon Smith: I'm back and nobody can stop me Ex-Lions TE Brandon Pettigrew arrested for disorderly conduct Man or zone coverage? Super Bowl MVP Tom Brady can shred both Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Ray Lewis headlines Hall of Fame's Class of 2018 nominees Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Terrell Owens' road to Hall of Fame only going to get more difficult Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Falcons rely on 'brotherhood' to soften sting of 'Tom Brady doing Tom Brady' Play disparity between Patriots, Falcons is largest in NFL postseason history Super Bowl LI awards: The best and worst from Patriots' win over Falcons The Browns wrap up their worst season in franchise history and look ahead to the NFL Draft. ESPN Browns reporter Pat McManamon breaks it down. (0:53) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com national NFL writer ESPN.com NFC North reporter, 2008-2013 Covered Vikings for Minneapolis Star Tribune, 1999-2008 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment As you mourn the end of the NFL's wild-card playoff round, take solace in this consolation: We now know the top 24 picks in the 2017 draft. There were no ties this week, so the four new additions are arranged in reverse order of their regular-season records. Details are in the chart below. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Browns wrap up their worst season in franchise history and look ahead to the NFL Draft. ESPN Browns reporter Pat McManamon breaks it down. (0:53)

As you mourn the end of the NFL's wild-card playoff round, take solace in this consolation: We now know the top 24 picks in the 2017 draft.

There were no ties this week, so the four new additions are arranged in reverse order of their regular-season records. Details are in the chart below.