Sorry, the ‘January Barometer’ Is a Market Myth
Sorry, the ‘January Barometer’ Is a Market Myth
The stock market in January has no special ability to forecast the future. That may surprise a lot of investors, since a popular urban myth on Wall Street is that the market’s performance in January predicts which direction stock prices will take for the full year. The problem is that there is little statistical support for that belief. According to the Stock Trader’s Almanac, this supposed pattern—variously known as the January Indicator or the January Barometer—was devised by the legendary market guru Yale Hirsch in 1972. You don’t have to look very far to find the shortcomings of the January Barometer. You may recall that January 2016 was one of the worst Januarys for the stock market in U.S. history, with the S&P 500 index sliding more than 5%. An investor guided by the January Barometer would have gotten out of stocks in early February, at what turned out to be some of the worst prices of the entire year—and missed the more than 15% rally the market mounted from early February through the end of the year. Journal Report Insights from The Experts  Read more at WSJ.com/FundsETFs  More in Investing in Funds & ETFs  How to Play the Small-Stock Comeback   The No. 1 Stock Manager Was...   U.S.-Stock Funds Rose 10.8% in 2016   Are Target Funds Too Bold?   College Finance Q&A  In fact, the January Barometer has been right only 64% of the time since 1972. For a sense of how faulty that is, consider this: If there was a rule that simply predicted the market would go up every year, it would have been right 76% of the time over the same period. Some January Barometer devotees nevertheless insist that its record is better than these statistics suggest. For example, Jeffrey Hirsch, Yale Hirsch’s son and editor of the Almanac Investor newsletter, reports that the Barometer has an 86.4% accuracy rate since 1950. But I believe that success rate is inflated, for a couple of reasons. The first is that, when calculating it, Mr. Hirsch’s approach is to ignore those years in which the indicator’s failures were supposedly minor—“flat years” in which the market moved less than 5% in the opposite direction to that which was forecast. (Including those eight 5%-or-less years immediately shaves 12 percentage points off the Barometer’s performance.) The second factor inflating the Barometer’s reported success rate is including in that record’s calculations the years before its discovery in 1972. Podcast Both of these statistical no-nos are symptoms of an all-too-common practice known as data mining—slicing and dicing the data until they produce the desired conclusion. The younger Mr. Hirsch nevertheless stands by the January Barometer, insisting that its record is “extraordinary.” In an interview, he argued that the indicator’s record has been particularly impressive during years in which the market rose in January. In such years since 1972, it has been right 85% of the time—better than the 76% success rate since then of a rule predicting the market would always rise. It isn’t clear that even this improvement in success rate from 76% to 85% is statistically significant, however. That’s because of another, less obvious, form of data mining, according to Campbell Harvey, a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business. In an interview, Prof. Harvey explained that before the January Barometer was “discovered,” many other hypotheses undoubtedly were explored by myriad market observers who over the years have combed through stock-market history in search of apparent seasonal patterns. With each additional hypothesis that is explored, Prof. Harvey argues, it becomes more likely that one of them will appear to have a phenomenal record but in fact be worthless going forward. To compensate for this increased likelihood of error, he adds, it’s important to employ increasingly stringent standards of statistical significance with each additional hypothesis that is tested. To be sure, this type of data mining isn’t unique to the January Barometer. On the contrary, Prof. Harvey—president of the American Finance Association, an organization of finance academics—said in his presidential address to the association last week in Chicago that this problem affects much of academic finance research as well. Many of the supposed patterns on which some market timers and traders base their strategies would be found to be no more than statistical flukes if their track records were properly adjusted for the data mining involved in their discoveries, Prof. Harvey said. The best advice for most individual investors, therefore, is to buy and hold a diversified group of quality stocks—without regard to whether the stock market is up or down this month. If a correction or bear market would be intolerable, you should reduce your equity exposure now, with the stock market at or near all-time highs, rather than wait until the bottom of a decline to discover that you don’t have what it takes to hold through thick and thin.      Everything You Need to Know About Required 401(k) and IRA Withdrawals Eventually, we must all take withdrawals from 401(k)s and IRAs. Here are the smart ways to go about it. Click to Read Story      Why Almost Everybody Should Apply for College Financial Aid Sharp answers to common questions about 529 plans and other methods of saving for college. Click to Read Story      Charity Can Count Toward Your IRA Withdrawal Charitably minded IRA owners can make required withdrawals, save taxes and do good at the same time. Click to Read Story     Advertisement     Where Retirees Can Find Continuing-Ed Classes Retirement expert Glenn Ruffenach answers questions on taking college-level courses, 401(k)s and Social Security. Click to Read Story      As Bitcoin ETF Nears, Analysts Warn of Trading Frenzy If approved, applications for bitcoin ETFs, including one run by the Winklevoss twins, could set off “irrational exuberance” in the market for cryptocurrency. Click to Read Story      How One Man Runs His ETF the Way He Played Blackjack But even he concedes that market timing shouldn’t be a typical investor’s main strategy. Click to Read Story     Advertisement  Investing in Funds & ETFs     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print  Most Popular Videos   Super Bowl Ad: Persil    Super Bowl Ad: Lexus    Super Bowl Ad: Snickers    Super Bowl Ad: Mercedes    Meteor Lights Up Midwest Skies  Most Popular Articles      Few Recall Gorsuch’s Volunteer Work at Harvard        Opinion: Sharp Left Turn Ahead—Beware        Opposition Mounts for Education Nominee Betsy DeVos        Opinion: A Libel Suit Threatens Catastrophe for the Climate of Public Debate        84 Lumber Super Bowl Campaign Shows Border Wall With a Big Door

Would you follow a stock-market indicator that is right only 64% of the time? Illustration: Lloyd Miller for The Wall Street Journal

The stock market in January has no special ability to forecast the future.

That may surprise a lot of investors, since a popular urban myth on Wall Street is that the market’s performance in January predicts which direction stock prices will take for the full year. The problem is that there is little statistical support for that belief.

According to the Stock Trader’s Almanac, this supposed pattern—variously known as the January Indicator or the January Barometer—was devised by the legendary market guru Yale Hirsch in 1972.

You don’t have to look very far to find the shortcomings of the January Barometer. You may recall that January 2016 was one of the worst Januarys for the stock market in U.S. history, with the S&P 500 index sliding more than 5%. An investor guided by the January Barometer would have gotten out of stocks in early February, at what turned out to be some of the worst prices of the entire year—and missed the more than 15% rally the market mounted from early February through the end of the year.

In fact, the January Barometer has been right only 64% of the time since 1972. For a sense of how faulty that is, consider this: If there was a rule that simply predicted the market would go up every year, it would have been right 76% of the time over the same period.

Some January Barometer devotees nevertheless insist that its record is better than these statistics suggest. For example, Jeffrey Hirsch, Yale Hirsch’s son and editor of the Almanac Investor newsletter, reports that the Barometer has an 86.4% accuracy rate since 1950. But I believe that success rate is inflated, for a couple of reasons.

The first is that, when calculating it, Mr. Hirsch’s approach is to ignore those years in which the indicator’s failures were supposedly minor—“flat years” in which the market moved less than 5% in the opposite direction to that which was forecast. (Including those eight 5%-or-less years immediately shaves 12 percentage points off the Barometer’s performance.) The second factor inflating the Barometer’s reported success rate is including in that record’s calculations the years before its discovery in 1972.

Podcast

Both of these statistical no-nos are symptoms of an all-too-common practice known as data mining—slicing and dicing the data until they produce the desired conclusion.

The younger Mr. Hirsch nevertheless stands by the January Barometer, insisting that its record is “extraordinary.” In an interview, he argued that the indicator’s record has been particularly impressive during years in which the market rose in January. In such years since 1972, it has been right 85% of the time—better than the 76% success rate since then of a rule predicting the market would always rise.

It isn’t clear that even this improvement in success rate from 76% to 85% is statistically significant, however. That’s because of another, less obvious, form of data mining, according to Campbell Harvey, a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business.

In an interview, Prof. Harvey explained that before the January Barometer was “discovered,” many other hypotheses undoubtedly were explored by myriad market observers who over the years have combed through stock-market history in search of apparent seasonal patterns.

With each additional hypothesis that is explored, Prof. Harvey argues, it becomes more likely that one of them will appear to have a phenomenal record but in fact be worthless going forward. To compensate for this increased likelihood of error, he adds, it’s important to employ increasingly stringent standards of statistical significance with each additional hypothesis that is tested.

January Barometer devotees stand by the indicator’s accuracy. Photo: iStockphoto/Getty Images

To be sure, this type of data mining isn’t unique to the January Barometer. On the contrary, Prof. Harvey—president of the American Finance Association, an organization of finance academics—said in his presidential address to the association last week in Chicago that this problem affects much of academic finance research as well. Many of the supposed patterns on which some market timers and traders base their strategies would be found to be no more than statistical flukes if their track records were properly adjusted for the data mining involved in their discoveries, Prof. Harvey said.

The best advice for most individual investors, therefore, is to buy and hold a diversified group of quality stocks—without regard to whether the stock market is up or down this month. If a correction or bear market would be intolerable, you should reduce your equity exposure now, with the stock market at or near all-time highs, rather than wait until the bottom of a decline to discover that you don’t have what it takes to hold through thick and thin.

Mr. Hulbert is editor of the Hulbert Financial Digest and a senior columnist for MarketWatch. He can be reached at reports@wsj.com.