Golden Globes 2017: Lola Kirke's unshaven armpits sends body positive message at awards ceremony
Golden Globes 2017: Lola Kirke's unshaven armpits sends body positive message at awards ceremony
The actress Lola Kirke chose to make a number of powerful statements through her red carpet appearance at the Golden Globes. While the actress may have worn a glamorous Andrew Gn dress to the event, she also decided to shun Hollywood beauty standards by having natural armpit hair. By refusing to adhere to standard beauty conventions at one of fashion’s most prestigious events, Kirke – who has previously displayed her armpit hair in more casual pictures - sent out a message. She later referred to this in an Instagram post, sarcastically thanking “all the beautiful people who didn’t send me death threats on account of my #awesome #hairyarmpits”. Golden Globes fashion 2017 gallery               Golden Globes fashion 2017 gallery       Actress Emma Stone   Getty        Actress Natalie Portman   Getty        Sophie Turner   Getty        Evan Rachel Wood   EPA        Zoe Saldana   EPA        Actress Octavia Spencer   Getty        Actress Sarah Jessica Parker   Getty        Actress Priyanka Chopra   Reuters        Actress Naomie Harris   Getty        Drew Barrymore   EPA        Sofia Vergara   Getty        Chrissy Teigen and John Legend   Getty        Actress Kerry Washington   Reuters        Emily Ratajkowski   EPA        Actress Viola Davis   Getty        Actress Blake Lively   Getty        Meryl Streep   EPA        Musician/Actress Janelle Monae   Getty        Actress Lily Collins   Getty        Millie Bobby Brown   Getty        Actor Ryan Gosling   Getty        Actress Jessica Biel and singer Justin Timberlake   Getty        Actor Donald Glover   Getty        Musician Pharrell Williams and Mimi Valdes   Getty        Actor Tom Hiddleston   Getty        Actor Mahershala Ali and wife, Amatus Sami-Karim   Reuters        Actor Andrew Garfield   Reuters        Jonah Hill   Getty        Actor Casey Affleck   Getty        Actor Hugh Laurie   Getty        Musician Questlove   Getty        Actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson   Getty  The comments below the post were largely supportive of Kirke, whose sister the actress Jemima who also showcased natural armpit hair at the CFDA awards in 2015. “Thank you for rocking natural body hair, you’re beautiful and it means a lot to have a lady in Hollywood challenge traditional standards,” one wrote. “Inspirational attitude,” said another. Ok! Now I'm really ready. Thanks to all you beautiful people who didn't send me death threats on account of my #awesome #hairyarmpits! You rule. And thank you @susanwinget for always making me feel cool and @reginaharris for my make up, @blakeerik for my hair and @andrewgn for my kickass dress! A photo posted by Lola Kirke (@lolakirke) on Another accessory Kirke chose to wear to the event was a badge that said “F*** Paul Ryan”. The actress told she wore the badge to protest the planned defunding of Planned Parenthood by the Republican party which the House speaker announced last week. Kirke wasn’t the only actress sending a message to women at the event. Evan Rachel Wood graced the red carpet wearing a suit and told reporters that while she likes dresses, she "wanted to make sure that young girls and women knew that they aren’t a requirement”. More about: Golden Globes Lola Kirke Comments

The actress Lola Kirke chose to make a number of powerful statements through her red carpet appearance at the Golden Globes.

While the Mozart in the Jungle actress may have worn a glamorous Andrew Gn dress to the event, she also decided to shun Hollywood beauty standards by having natural armpit hair.

By refusing to adhere to standard beauty conventions at one of fashion’s most prestigious events, Kirke – who has previously displayed her armpit hair in more casual pictures - sent out a message. She later referred to this in an Instagram post, sarcastically thanking “all the beautiful people who didn’t send me death threats on account of my #awesome #hairyarmpits”.

Golden Globes fashion 2017 gallery







32 show all Golden Globes fashion 2017 gallery





























































1/32 Actress Emma Stone Getty

2/32 Actress Natalie Portman Getty

3/32 Sophie Turner Getty

4/32 Evan Rachel Wood EPA

5/32 Zoe Saldana EPA

6/32 Actress Octavia Spencer Getty

7/32 Actress Sarah Jessica Parker Getty

8/32 Actress Priyanka Chopra Reuters

9/32 Actress Naomie Harris Getty

10/32 Drew Barrymore EPA

11/32 Sofia Vergara Getty

12/32 Chrissy Teigen and John Legend Getty

13/32 Actress Kerry Washington Reuters

14/32 Emily Ratajkowski EPA

15/32 Actress Viola Davis Getty

16/32 Actress Blake Lively Getty

17/32 Meryl Streep EPA

18/32 Musician/Actress Janelle Monae Getty

19/32 Actress Lily Collins Getty

20/32 Millie Bobby Brown Getty

21/32 Actor Ryan Gosling Getty

22/32 Actress Jessica Biel and singer Justin Timberlake Getty

23/32 Actor Donald Glover Getty

24/32 Musician Pharrell Williams and Mimi Valdes Getty

25/32 Actor Tom Hiddleston Getty

26/32 Actor Mahershala Ali and wife, Amatus Sami-Karim Reuters

27/32 Actor Andrew Garfield Reuters

28/32 Jonah Hill Getty

29/32 Actor Casey Affleck Getty

30/32 Actor Hugh Laurie Getty

31/32 Musician Questlove Getty

32/32 Actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson Getty

The comments below the post were largely supportive of Kirke, whose sister the Girls actress Jemima who also showcased natural armpit hair at the CFDA awards in 2015.

Golden Globes in 90 seconds: La La Land wins big and British success stories

“Thank you for rocking natural body hair, you’re beautiful and it means a lot to have a lady in Hollywood challenge traditional standards,” one wrote. “Inspirational attitude,” said another.

Another accessory Kirke chose to wear to the event was a badge that said “F*** Paul Ryan”. The actress told Elle she wore the badge to protest the planned defunding of Planned Parenthood by the Republican party which the House speaker announced last week.

Kirke wasn’t the only actress sending a message to women at the event. Evan Rachel Wood graced the red carpet wearing a suit and told reporters that while she likes dresses, she "wanted to make sure that young girls and women knew that they aren’t a requirement”.