FTSE 100 matches longest record-setting streak in 33-year history as pound slides on Brexit fears
FTSE 100 matches longest record-setting streak in 33-year history as pound slides on Brexit fears
Markets wrap: FTSE 100 matches longest record-setting streak in 33-year history ritain’s benchmark index has matched the longest record-setting streak in its 33-year history, after it closed at a new all-time high yesterday, as the pound weakened. The FTSE 100 touched a new intraday peak of 7,243.76, before finishing up 27.72 points, or 0.4pc, at 7,232.40. Fresh 'hard Brexit’ fears bashed the pound helping the UK’s leading index deliver its eighth successive record close, equaling a record set in May 1997, when it recorded a string of peak closes from May 1 to May 13. Its latest winning streak began on December 28 during festive trading, when volumes were relatively thin, but the rally has spilled into the new year thanks to persistent pound weakness. ucking the trend in Europe, the blue chip index outperformed its peers, due to its inverse correlation with the pound; the index tends to make gains when sterling drops, as a large number of its constituents are dollar earners. Since the Brexit vote last June, the severe slump in sterling has boosted these multinational companies, lifting the index 14.4pc last year. By contrast, the index posted a fall of 4.1pc in US dollar terms, and the FTSE Local UK index, which includes companies that generate more than 70pc of their revenues domestically, surrendered 6.8pc. he pound’s torrid run has continued this year, propelling the FTSE 100 to new heights. Yesterday, it became the worst performing currency in the G10. It tumbled by as much as 1.32pc to a ten-week low of $1.2125  against the dollar after Prime Minister Theresa May said she was not interested in Britain keeping “bits” of its EU membership. Against the euro it also lost ground, down 1.3pc on the day, at €1.1512. n her first televised interview of 2017, May denied Britain would face a “binary choice” between curbing immigration and having preferential access to the EU’s single market. However, she subsequently backtracked from her 'hard Brexit’ comments yesterday, rejecting the idea of a 'hard’ versus 'soft’ Brexit. Instead, she insisted the government would work towards “the best possible deal” in terms of access the bloc’s single market. Alas, investors took little comfort, with traders suggesting the pound could fall further. It is now within touching distance of the $1.21 handle, which defines the bottom of the range for price action in the wake of the 'flash crash’ that occurred on October 7.  If it continues to slide the FTSE 100 stands to benefit. eremy Cook, chief economist at World First, thinks sterling will “increasingly have to rely on the weakness of others, such as US dollar weakness from a Trump gaffe or policy error, to gain relative strength”. Separately, JP Morgan cautioned the pound is the one G10 currency that is “overvalued” against the dollar. The bank’s strategists said the government appears “ill-prepared” for Brexit and  the government, along with investors, will now have to confront the “awkward realities of Brexit negotiations by late spring”. Meanwhile, according to data on speculative positioning released by the Commitments of Traders last week bearish bets on the pound had already been increasing, with traders re-establishing short positions in the pound against the dollar as the returned to work in the new year. BREAKING: Nasdaq Composite index hits new all-time high https://t.co/4ue7PgtllZ  pic.twitter.com/JclJcaO3zU ondon’s leading index wasn’t the only bourse breaking new records, on Wall Street, the Nasdaq set a new record intraday high of 5,541 buoyed by gains in the technology sector. However, a slide in oil prices weighed on energy stocks stalling the Dow Jones in its pursuit of the landmark 20,000 level.  Pound languishes at 10-week low after May's commentd ith the pound languishing at 10-week lows after Theresa May's comments over the weekend, says her appearance was exactly what we now expect from her; "little heat and even less policy or news". "Certainly the focus has been shone on her inability to tell the British people whether she will prioritise immigration reform over access to the single market. Freedom of movement is the single market and the single market is freedom of movement; they are core beliefs of the European project. For my money this means that access to the single market’s goose is cooked for all intents and purposes. "May said today: "What I said yesterday is what I’ve been saying for past few months," and therein is the problem. We are eleven weeks from the proposed deadline for the invocation of Article 50 and we are no closer to knowing what the government’s stance is. The pound is now at a 10-week low after Theresa May signals U.K. could quit single market https://t.co/pSFt7TKP65  pic.twitter.com/fQmuDYhHCu "This is not the only thing that is taking the pound lower of course, but the disconnect between sterling’s performance and the data seen last week should come as galloping shock to precisely nobody. There is still little reason that global investors, apart from the fact that it is oversold in the short term, would want to hold pounds. "Last week’s news from the manufacturing, construction and services industries were unanimously strong although fears over inflation will continue to discount some exuberance. "The news from the High Street retailer Next will have sent a shiver through retailers with similar trading updates from Morrison’s supermarkets tomorrow, Sainsbury’s on Wednesday and Debenhams, M&S, Asos and Tesco on Thursday. Margin compression is a real issue for these retailers and we expect all to comment on the impact of a weaker sterling and a lack of consumer spending leading to higher inflation." Market report: Glencore hits one-month high as Barclays resumes coverage; FTSE 100 sets new intraday record high ining giant bounced to a one-month high after Barclays said it is unlikely the FTSE 100 company will “ever see the tremors of 2015 again”. Reinstating its coverage of the Switzerland-based group, Barclays rated the stock as “overweight” and named Glencore its “top pick” within the European mining space. David Butler, of Barclays, said the miner is “much changed” since the bank ceased covering the stock thanks to its cost-cutting programme, intense scrutiny of the marketing business, production cutbacks and restructuring of the dividend policy. The bank also argues that fears over asset quality are “unwarranted”. “We believe Glencore’s commodity exposure and growth potential are well suited to the current macro conditions,” Butler added. The bullish broker note lifted shares 10.3p, or 3.6pc, to 298.7p. Is peers also made modest gains, with BHP Billiton adding 23.5p to £13.41, Antofagasta rising 10p to 704p and Anglo American inching 19.5p higher to £11.55. n the broader market, the continued its winning streak, setting a new intraday record peak of 7,243.76, before closing up 27.72 points, or 0.4pc, at 7,237.77. igarette makers and were also among the risers, driving consumer goods sectoral gains, jumping 101p and 78p, respectively. Meanwhile, advanced 50.5p to £33.45 and rose 116p to £68.03, despite Berenberg cutting its target price by £5 to £73. On the other side, shares in lost ground after UBS slashed its price target from 285p citing the 'demonetisation’ in India which has negatively impacted the whole mobile operator sector. eutsche Bank hiked rating to “buy” from “hold” as it believes the bank is “well placed” for earnings growth this year, buoyed by favourable macro trends. Nevertheless, shares dipped 1.2p to 234.1p. Elsewhere, slumped 13.8p to 285.5p after Barclays reduced its target price to 270p, down from 325p, citing a deterioration in sentiment towards emerging markets after the US presidential election. t was odds off for bookmaker as investors offloaded the shares after its full-year operating profit came in at the lower end of its guidance at £260m. The FTSE 250 stock dropped 6.1p to 291.6p. n Aim, edged up 2.2pc to 11.4p after the West African-focused producer hiked its interest in its profitable palm oil project in Cote d’Ivoire to 100pc. Property services company announced its second acquisition in the past six months, acquiring GDM Group for up to £7.1m, sending shares 11.5p higher to 420p. Finally, strong half-year trading boosted shares in Aim-listed by 9.6pc. It now expects earnings for the year to be at the upper end of market expectations. European bourses miss out on gains as oil slides he slide in oil prices, which wobbled on signs growing US output could undermine plans by other producers to cut supply, caused energy stocks to falter dragging European bourses into the red. Here's a look at how European bourses finished up: FTSE 100 posts eight successive record closes matching FTSE's longest record-setting run oom! Eight successive days of record closes;  the FTSE 100 has matched the longest record-setting run in the FTSE's 33-year index. In May 1997, the FTSE 100 enjoyed eight consecutive record closing highs from May 1 to May 13. The blue chip index began its winning streak on December 28 and has continued to set new record peaks since then due to persistent pound weakness. It finished up 27.72 points, or 0.38pc, at 7,237.77. FTSE 100 vs FTSE Local UK index While the FTSE 100 is setting new peaks, here's a graph comparing its performance to that of the FTSE Local UK index which includes companies that generate more than 70pc of their revenues domestically. Pound's weakness helps solidify FTSE's current highs lthough the FTSE 100 has set another new intraday record peak today, reckons it would have performed better "if it weren’t for its oil and banking stocks, with the key players in both suffering some index-dragging losses as the afternoon went on." "The pound’s weakness seemed to help solidify the index’s current highs; though it couldn’t quite reach the 7240 intraday peak struck early in the session, it managed to maintain a 20 to 30 point rise, leaving it hovering around 7230." One of these is a roller coaster designed to kill its riders, the other is an extremely dangerous fairground ride pic.twitter.com/Otdf611Xnj FTSE 100 set to match longest record-setting streak in 33-year history ith just under an hour to go, the FTSE 100 is still in positive territory, up 11 points at 7,221.24, putting it on track to match the FTSE's longest record-setting streak in its 33-year history. In May 1997, when it finished at all-time peaks for eight straight sessions. If it ends today higher, the FTSE 100 will match this record. Gold miner Centamin set to hike dividend on record production nvestors in Egyptian gold miner Centamin are set to set enjoy a bumper payout after record production prompted the company to rewrite its dividend policy. The FTSE 250 miner, which operates the giant Sukari mine in Egypt’s eastern desert, said it would pay at least 30pc of its free cashflow in dividends from now on, having previously said its payout would be in the region of 15 to 30pc. The precise amount due to shareholders will be revealed when Centamin unveils its full-year results at the start of February. n its last update, the miner, which is debt free, had around $400m (£329m) in cash on its balance sheet. Chief executive Andrew Pardey has previously said that Centamin is “not a bank” and will return cash to shareholders whenever it can. Merkel: Accept EU's freedoms or we'll restrict single market access ngela Merkel has announced that if Britain does not accept the EU's four freedoms in the Brexit negotiations "we will have to talk about restricting access to the EU single market". ead over to our live politics blog for more: finnCap: Ten investment ideas for an uncertain 2017 midst a globally confusing backdrop, finnCap have chosen 10 stocks that they think can perform well in 2017. Releasing their top 10 today, the broker said: "We are not trying to be thematic with these calls; instead, we have simply selected the company in each sector that we cover that we think will do the best in 2017." Here's their top 10: Allergy Therapeutics: A specialty pharmaceutical business with a profitable European business and growing market share which we value at 40p per share. Capital Drilling: Provides drilling services and drill rigs to the mineral & mining industry, leaving it well placed to benefit from the recovery in commodities. Fulcrum: The only independent, national provider of gas and electricity connection services in the £800m UK market. GB Group: A world leading provider of ID data solutions using its own proprietary software platforms either as SaaS or under license. Gem Diamonds: A diamond mining and exploration company operating in Lesotho and Botswana, Gem Diamonds has been working through a period of relatively weak diamond prices combined with operating issues at both of its mines. H&T: H&T’s large network of branches now provides a base from which to launch new financial products to consumers that need face-to-face contact Hurricane Energy: Hurricane has made a huge amount of operational progress during 2016.With more exploration upside to play for in early 2017 and work progressing on the field development plan, Hurricane has multiple share price drivers in 2017 RM Group: A technology company specialising in the supply of resources, software and IT services to the UK and overseas education sectors. Victoria Carpets: We estimate an acquisition war chest of £40m for Victoria. Wall Street slips at opening bell as energy stocks slide all Street opened in the red this afternoon as energy stocks were dragged lower by oil prices. The Dow Jones which was fell one point short of hitting the historic 20,000 level retreated further due to a fall in Goldman Sachs shares. At the opening bell: Dow Jones: -0.25pc S&P 500: -0.14pc Nasdaq: -0.13pc Profits sink at William Hill as unfavourable sporting results hit struggling bookmaker hares in bookmaker William Hill have dipped 1.5pc to 293.1p after it said its annual operating profit would fall to £260m - the bottom end of its forecast range. William Hill’s profit in 2016 was £20m below previous expectations as a tumultuous year was made worse by unfavourable football and horseracing results in December. The FTSE 250 bookmaker said its full-year operating profit for 2016 would be around £260m, at the bottom end of its guided £260m to £280m range. It marks a drop of more than £30m from the £291.4m operating profit posted in 2015, and follows the scrapping of its multibillion-pound merger with Canadian online poker giant Amaya in October . illiam Hill’s chief executive James Henderson abruptly left the bookmaker in July, after less than two years in the job, and the company issued a profit warning in March , less than a week after the end of the Cheltenham Festival, the centrepiece of the horseracing calendar. In a trading statement today, it insisted underlying trends “remain encouraging” but said gross win margins for the end of the year were below expectations as football and horseracing results went against bookmakers. JP Morgan: 'The government is ill-prepared for Brexit talks' n its latest weekly FX report, US investment bank JP Morgan says the pound is "over-valued". Strategist Daniel Hui warns: "The government appears ill-prepared for the Brexit talks. "Patience is required though given uncertainty about the Supreme Court ruling and upgrades to growth forecasts." The bank also adds that the pound is the one G10 currency that is now over-valued against the US dollar on a short-term model basis. Although the pound enjoyed an extended short squeeze since the US presidential election, the bank says the government and investors will now have to confront the "awkward realities of Brexit negotiations by late spring/summer". Pound could test $1.21 'as soon as today' ith the pound taking centre stage today after comments from Prime Minister Theresa May over the weekend, says he wouldn't rule out "a test of the $1.21 mark as soon as today with the US dollar looking firmer and a sense of inevitability about sterling ahead of the eventual triggering of Article 50 at the end of March". He added: "The Prime Minister continued the mantra of a "hard Brexit", stating that regaining control of immigration was a priority, even if that costs Britain's membership of the single market. "The move now puts us in sight of the $1.21 handle which defines the bottom of the range for the price action post the algo flash crash that occurred on October 7." Pound gripped by pol risk: Drops to 10wk low after May indicated she prioritized immigration control over single mkt https://t.co/1FWlN5FX8V  pic.twitter.com/W7Trr9yQi0 Bovis Homes boss David Ritchie quits just days after house builder issues profit warning hares in Bovis Homes have dipped 5.5p today after boss David Ritchie stepped down just days after the house builder warned on profits. The chief executive of house builder Bovis Homes has stepped down with immediate effect just days after the company issued a surprise profit warning having built fewer homes than expected last year. David Ritchie, who has spent 18 years at the FTSE 250 company, including eight as chief executive, said “now is the right time for someone new” to lead the group. Shares were up 2pc in early trading on the news. ovis said at the end of last month that pre-tax profits were likely to be flat on last year, at between £160m and £170m, below analyst predictions of £180m, due to a slowdown in the rate of building and sales in December. The company, which builds mostly in southern England, said in the profit warning that the sale of 180 homes had been deferred and that this would affect profit margins because they are on prime sites with higher average selling prices. Sterling worst performer in G10 today eanwhile, on currency markets, the pound is getting bashed by 'hard Brexit' fears. Over the weekend, Prime Minister Theresa May said that she was not interested in keeping "bits of membership" of the EU which reignited fears of a 'hard Brexit'. The pound is currently off by 1.17pc at $1.2143 against the US dollar - a 10-week low and its biggest daily loss in three months. Despite May saying today that she doesn't accept the terms 'hard' and 'soft' Brexit, highlights that "this ‘back-pedalling’ has done nothing to reverse the decline in the pound". She adds: "Unsurprisingly, the pound is the worst performer in the G10 today, however, we would note that downside momentum was building up for the pound last week, as traders once again re-established short positions in GBP vs. USD, according to the latest CFTC data on speculative positioning. "After some respite at the end of last year, the market increased short bets on sterling even before Theresa May gave her interview on Sunday, suggesting that until a clear plan is presented by the government, the market’s fear that Brexit will be a disaster for the UK. This is important, if politics are everything for the pound, then we would expect to see further declines in the coming weeks, until we get some concrete detail about what the UK’s exit from the EU will actually look like." Lunchtime update: European bourses slip but FTSE 100 sets new record high uropean bourses have tumbled into the red today but the weak pound has lifted the FTSE 100 to a new record peak. Here's a look at the current state of play in Europe:  said: "It seems that news of a near 18 month high Sentix investor confidence reading, which came in at 18.2 against the 12.6 forecast, was absorbed by the Eurozone’s currency, leaving the DAX and CAC to deal with their morning losses." Taxpayer no longer the biggest shareholder in Lloyds Bank as Government sells down stake he British government is no longer top shareholder in Lloyds Banking Group after reducing its stake to below 6pc as it aims to return the lender to full private ownership this year. The Government has now recovered more than £18bn, the lender said, as it continues to reduce its stake from the 43pc it held after rescuing Lloyds with a £20.5bn bailout during the financial crisis. K Financial Investments, the body that manages the taxpayer’s stake in Lloyds, was forced to stop selling shares earlier this year due to stock market volatility, but resumed the process of returning the lender to private ownership in October . “Returning Lloyds to the private sector and recovering all of the cash the taxpayer injected into the bank during the financial crisis is a priority for the Government,” said Philip Hammond, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Analysts react as pound crumbles on fresh 'hard Brexit' fears he pound is on track for its biggest daily losses in three months, tumbling by more than 1pc to a 10-week low, after Prime Minister Theresa May said over the weekend that she was not interested in keeping "bits of membership" of the EU. In her first televised interview of the year, May denied that Britain would face a "binary choice" in leaving the European Union, between curbing immigration and having preferential access to the bloc's single market. As the pound continues to tumble analysts react: said: "The political crisis is brewing and you can see that when you look at pound. The UK government is playing with fire and creating more uncertainty. Last year, we said that the British pound has tendency of touching the mark of 1.18 against the dollar and we are still maintaining our call. "The government needs to be consistent with their message so that market can digest all the bad news and move on with it. You cannot carry on giving conflicting messages as this puts more traders on the side line." GBP still working on the fact, apart from being oversold in the short term, there is little reason investors will want to hold the currency eanwhile, thinks the latest sterling slide is "an interesting example" of how politics is the key driver for the pound at the moment. "And it's fascinating that a spokeswoman for the prime minister has commented on it - Downing Street may be concerned about what a collapse in the pound means psychologically for voters. For many it can be summed up simple as 'weak pound = weak Britain'." On sterling's slide after her single market comments on @skynews : PM: "What I said yesterday is what Ive been saying for past few months" lsewhere, said: "With the battle of words between politicians on how the government had a “muddled thinking” over Brexit adding to the uncertainty, Sterling should be destined to sink lower this week. It should be kept in mind that uncertainty remains the name of the game when dealing with the pound and such should make the weakness a recurrent theme." Rolls-Royce enjoys record demand in second-best year ever uxury car-maker Rolls-Royce has shrugged off concerns about the global economy, with some of its key markets posting their best ever sales results. The Goodwood-based car maker sold 4,011 cars in 2016, the second-highest in the company’s 113-year history, and just 42 vehicles behind the all-time high in 2014. Although the company, part of the Germany’s BMW group, does not give a precise breakdown of sales, it said that demand in Europe was up 23pc on the previous year, the Americas were 12pc and Asia Pacific rose by 5pc. everal individual countries set new highs, with Japan 51pc higher, Germany up 30pc, and the UK up by 26pc. China's sales were 23pc stronger and the US was up by 10pc. Pound 11th worst performing currency of 2017 - after only six trading sessions ack to the pound, it's just the six trading session of 2017 and the pound is only the 11th worst performing currency so far this year. Despite today's fall sterling is only the 11th worst performing currency of 2017 pic.twitter.com/goYZrMLDST House price growth jumps to highest since March despite weaker market post-Brexit vote rowth in British house prices picked up speed for the second month in a row in December, helped by a shortage of homes to buy, but price increases are likely to slow in 2017, mortgage lender Halifax said this morning. House price growth has jumped to the highest level since March, according to data from the Halifax, as a lack of supply propped up the housing market since last summer's European Union referendum. On a monthly basis, the Halifax house price index showed prices increased by 1.7pc last month, up from 0.6pc last in November. The three-month average of year-on-year house price growth was 6.5pc last month, up from 6pc. "The surge in house prices in December should not be read as a sign that the housing market is fizzing," said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. He added that Halifax's measure is volatile. This jump was far higher than the estimated consensus for monthly growth which was put at 0.3pc. hile it appears there is momentum in the market, the underlying trend "remains significantly weaker than before the referendum," said Mr Tombs. Dollar climbs against yen on Friday's jobs report tateside, the dollar crept ahead on signs of wage pressure in the December US jobs report which was released on Friday. Although the non-farm payrolls fell short of expectations, a rebound in wages lifted the dollar. ollowing the data release, Chicago Fed President Charles Evans  said that the central bank could raise interest rates three times this year, faster than he had expected just a few months ago. Sterling slides after PM May signals tough Brexit line ritain's pound slid almost 1 percent against both the dollar and the euro in early London trading after weekend comments from Prime Minister Theresa May that she was not interested in keeping "bits of membership" of the European Union. May said she instead wanted a bespoke deal with the rest of Europe and also denied criticism that she was "muddled" in the pursuit of what she called the right relationship with the EU. he pound fell by as much as 1.32pc against the dollar to a ten-week low $1.2125 and is now on track for its biggest one-day loss in three months. Spending boom as shoppers and businesses ramp up borrowing hoppers and business owners have signalled confidence in spending more, suggesting the credit-fuelled growth seen in late 2016 is showing few signs of flagging. Consumer spending on credit and debt cards rose 2.6pc during last year, with higher spending both online and in bricks-and-mortar retailers, according to figures from Visa. The value of purchases in shops rose by a total of 0.7pc, despite a difficult time for some high street retailers. nline commerce spending rose 5.5pc, while hotels, bars and restaurants enjoyed a 7.3pc increase in takings, the payments company said. The figures were the strongest since the last quarter of 2014 and suggest that the credit-driven spending boom recorded by official data in the first nine months of the year has continued unabated in the festive period, although growth slowed slightly from the record-breaking 3.1pc rise seen in the year to November according to Visa’s data. Agenda: FTSE 100 to equal longest record-setting streak in index's 33-year history ood morning and welcome to our live markets coverage. On Friday, all eyes were on the Dow Jones as it came with a whisker of the landmark 20,000 level before retreating. Today, the FTSE has continued its winning streak, setting a new intraday record high. If it closes in positive territory today, the blue chip index will match the longest run of record closes set back in May 1997 when it posted record closes for eight successive trading sessions. The winning streak in May 1997 was the longest run of record-setting run in the FTSE's 33-yer history. ttention is also on the pound today as Brexit fears sent it tumbling this morning. said: "Things are getting ugly for the pound once more, with weekend comments from Theresa May pointing to the her opinion that the aim of controlling immigration is non-negotiable as we leave the EU. It is clear that all parties see single market access as being intertwined with the free movement of labour. Thus it appears that we are heading for a so-called ‘hard Brexit’ which heightens the negative impact upon businesses operating in the UK. With Article 50 set to be enacted in around three months, there is likely to be substantial noise coming from both side of this argument, sparking volatility and a great deal of uncertainty." The official pound sterling soundtrack this morning is "AGHAHAhaghhhhh" pic.twitter.com/d2YkeKzi4x lso on the agenda: Safestore Holdings Ilika : Majestic Wine, William Hill Halifax HPI m/m (UK), labor market conditions index m/m (US), consumer credit m/m (US), trade balance (GER), industrial production m/m (GER), sentix investor confidence (EU), unemployment rate (EU)

Britain’s benchmark index has matched the longest record-setting streak in its 33-year history, after it closed at a new all-time high yesterday, as the pound weakened.

The FTSE 100 touched a new intraday peak of 7,243.76, before finishing up 27.72 points, or 0.4pc, at 7,232.40.

Fresh 'hard Brexit’ fears bashed the pound helping the UK’s leading index deliver its eighth successive record close, equaling a record set in May 1997, when it recorded a string of peak closes from May 1 to May 13.

Its latest winning streak began on December 28 during festive trading, when volumes were relatively thin, but the rally has spilled into the new year thanks to persistent pound weakness.