Let’s Cut The Shit, Ryan Gosling Is 1,000,000 Times Better Than Ryan Reynolds
Let's Cut The Shit, Ryan Gosling Is 1,000,000 Times Better Than Ryan Reynolds
Ryan Gosling eating: Excellent spoon-to-mouth form. Good milk-to-cereal ratio. Suddenly I am horny. Ryan Reynolds eating: Poor pizza-eating technique. Awful cheese-to-sauce ratio. Pizza looks like shit. Suddenly I want salad. A Ryan Gosling movie: A classic. A Ryan Reynolds movie: He looks like he just sharted and there’s a Confederate flag? What is this even? Problematic! Ryan Gosling with Ellen: Fun, must-see TV! Ryan Reynolds with Ellen: Dull and unwatchable! (Her eyes are closed. Boring!) Ryan Gosling pumping gas: Nice stance and excellent fill-age. Ryan Reynolds pumping gas: Awkward and weird. He probably had to go inside to pay because he did it wrong. Ryan Gosling wearing glasses: Smart and cool. Ryan Reynolds wearing glasses: Looks like that kid in class who reminded the teacher to collect the homework. Ryan Gosling wearing a hoodie: The hoodie is perfectly fit to his head. Big fan. Ryan Reynolds wearing a hoodie: The hoodie just doesn’t *look right.* Not a fan. Ryan Gosling taking off his shirt: Flaw-free and jizz-worthy. Ryan Reynolds taking off his shirt: Painful-seeming and only kinda jizz-worthy. Ryan Gosling and a dog: Heroic. Ryan Reynolds and a dog: The dog is looking back at him like he’s pissed or something. Ryan Gosling eating something: An apple! So healthy! Ryan Reynolds eating something: Looks like plastic! Not even edible! Ryan Gosling staying hydrated: A big jug of water. Pee will be clear. Ryan Reynolds staying hydrated: A tiny bottle of water. Pee will be dark yellow. Ryan Gosling leaving the airport: Literally everyone looks like shit when they get off a plane except Ryan Gosling. Impact. Ryan Reynolds leaving the airport: The scarf is weird and I can’t get over it. Sorry. Ryan Gosling with Sandra Bullock: A couple. Ryan Reynolds with Sandra Bullock: He’s sniffing her hair… Weird! Ryan Gosling with a sloth: The sloth is totally into him. Ryan is totally into the sloth. A couple. Ryan Reynolds with a sloth: The sloth is not even real. Fake, sad, and sorry. Ryan Gosling doing charity: Breaking up a fight and really helping “the people.” Ryan Reynolds doing charity: He’s planting a tree. There’s like millions of them already. Tired and old. Ryan Gosling and a rare animal: So cute! Very cuddly. Ryan Reynolds and a rare animal: The giraffe is more into the food than Ryan. Ryan’s forcing a kiss. Not cool! Ryan Gosling next to an old man: Old man looks important. Old man very grandpa-like and probably gives good Christmas gifts. Ryan Reynolds next to an old man: Man isn’t even that old. Man is wearing bad shorts. Ryan Gosling’s bulge: Big and nice. Ryan Reynolds’ bulge: Also nice, but dick is dick and bulge is bulge. We all win on this one!   Patton Oswalt Has Revealed His Wife Died From Prescription...    Beyoncé Just Announced She's Pregnant With Twins  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen.

Thanks!

We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at

Done