Northern Ireland's power-sharing agreement on the brink of collapse as Martin McGuinness quits
Northern Ireland's power-sharing agreement on the brink of collapse as Martin McGuinness quits
orthern Ireland's power-sharing agreement is on the brink of collapse after Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness quit as Deputy First Minister. The Sinn Fein veteran resigned in protest at the Democratic Unionist Party's handling of a botched renewable energy scheme, which could cost taxpayers £490million. He made the decision after Arlene Foster, the DUP First Minister, rejected calls to step down while a probe into the Government's handling of the scheme takes place. is resignation will lead to a snap Assembly election in the region, as the structure of Stormont's Executive Office means a First Minister cannot hold the position without a co-equal Deputy First Minister. Mrs Foster presided over the ill-fated energy scheme while she served as economy minister. Mr McGuinness said Mrs Foster's refusal to step aside over the scandal was "indicative of a deep seated arrogance which is inflicting enormous damage on the Executive, the Assembly and the entire public body". Ten years of valient service in Office Of First&DeputyFirst Minister Martin McGuinness signs resignation letter. GRMA chara 4 all Ur work. pic.twitter.com/1i4ezDTF5h he state-funded scheme was set up to offer a proportion of the cost businesses had to pay to run eco-friendly boilers, but the subsidy tariffs were set too high and, without a cap, it ended up paying out significantly more than the price of fuel. This enabled applicants to "burn to earn" - getting free heat and making a profit as they did so. In his resignation letter, Mr McGuinness said: "It is my firm view that the DUP's handling of this issue has been completely out of step with the public mood which is rightly outraged at the squandering of public money and teh allegations of misconduct and corruption. " e said he was resigning with "deep regret and reluctance", but that "Sinn Fein will not tolerate the arrogance of Arlene Foster and the DUP." Adding: "The First Minister has refused to stand aside, without prejudice, pending a preliminary report from an investigation. That position is not credible or tenable." Mr McGuinness's move comes hours after Mrs Foster accused him of playing a political game of chicken and warned she would not blink first. "If he is playing a game of chicken, if Sinn Fein are playing a game of chicken, and they think we are going to blink in relation to me stepping aside they are wrong - I won't be stepping aside," she said. "And if there is an election, there is an election." olum Eastwood, the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) leader, said Ms Foster's "arrogance" had caused a potential election.

Northern Ireland's power-sharing agreement is on the brink of collapse after Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness quit as Deputy First Minister.

The Sinn Fein veteran resigned in protest at the Democratic Unionist Party's handling of a botched renewable energy scheme, which could cost taxpayers £490million.

He made the decision after Arlene Foster, the DUP First Minister, rejected calls to step down while a probe into the Government's handling of the scheme takes place.