Thanks To Hollywood Economics, TV Diversity Wins Big At The Golden Globes
Thanks To Hollywood Economics, TV Diversity Wins Big At The Golden Globes
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Madeline Berg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. For the first time in over 30 years, a black actress, Tracee Ellis Ross, won the award for Best Actress in a Television Series, Musical or Comedy. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) At this year's Golden Globes ceremony, TV's biggest winner wasn't a cult Netflix show (say, ) or multi-season HBO behemoth ( comes to mind), but the diversity across all winners, in terms of both content and actors. "This is for all of the In addition to Ross' win for her role in Donald Glover won as both the star and creator of , a story entangled in race in America, won for Best Limited Series or TV Motion Picture, and the show's Sarah Paulson won for Best Actress in a Limited Series or TV Movie. Blackness and African American culture play prominent roles in all three of these series. In Glover "I really just want to thank Atlanta and all the black folks in Atlanta j ," Glover said in his acceptance speech for the Best Series, Comedy or Musical award. "I couldn't be here without Atlanta." Donald Glover's series took home two awards, one for Best Actor and the other for Best Comedy Series. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP) and focused on the use of the N-word, one of the English language’s greatest taboos. The show has succeeded commercially and is among ABC's highest-rated sitcoms. In a move that will earn ABC Studies a pretty penny, Hulu recently purchased exclusive streaming rights to the series. Like was a ratings hit. It was among the highest-rated new cable series of 2016, averaging 12.7 million viewers per episode. writer and director Barry Jenkins with the award for Best Motion Picture, Drama. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) While the coming-of-age story of a black, gay man in Miami, won arguably the biggest award of the night —Best Picture, Drama—it was one of only two diverse wins in the film categories (the other being Viola Davis' Best Supporting Actress win for ). This reflects the relative lack of diversity in film, compared to TV. According to the 2016 Annenberg School Report on Diversity , 21.8% of leading actors on film were of underrepresented races. On TV, the number is slightly better, with recurring characters of underrepresented races making up 26.6% of all characters. There are many reasons that television is more consistently inclusive of minority characters than film, but a large part of it is financial. Films, particularly large studio productions, cost many millions, often hitting the high eight or low nine figures. Even the most expensive TV shows are rarely done for more than $50 million per season. With a lot more money on the line, large production companies favor films that play it safe, and due to the historic underrepresentation of minorities in film, safe often means white. Television has the freedom to be more niche, as a show has to be seen by many fewer people to make money. It is because of this that shows like , and (which saw Issa Rae nominated for Best Actress and was nominated for Best Comedy Series) can get created and prove Hollywood wrong with their universal appeal.  The likes of Rae, Glover and Ross have shown television producers and networks that a show celebrating diverse people and stories can thrive both critically and commercially. As more and more films like prove Hollywood wrong, hopefully filmmakers can afford to follow suit. Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners 'La La Land' Breaks Record For Most Golden Globe Wins Ever Donald Glover Wins Big For 'Atlanta' At The Golden Globes Ryan Gosling Wins Golden Globe For 'La La Land' Performance Emma Stone Of 'La La Land' Wins Golden Globe Golden Globes 2017: By The Numbers For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

At this year's Golden Globes ceremony, TV's biggest winner wasn't a cult Netflix show (say, Stranger Things) or multi-season HBO behemoth (Game of Thrones comes to mind), but the diversity across all winners, in terms of both content and actors.

"This is for all of the women, women of color and colorful people whose stories, ideas (and) thoughts are not always considered worthy and valid and important," said Tracee Ellis Ross, accepting her award for Best Actress in a Television Comedy or Musical at Sunday night's ceremony.

Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners

"I think our industry can be at the forefront of making sure that the diversity of stories is told. It's not just people of color; it's all different ages and shapes and sizes," added Ross, the first African American to win this award since Debbie Allen did in 1982.

In addition to Ross' win for her role in Black-ish, Donald Glover won as both the star and creator of Atlanta. The People v. O.J. Simpson, a story entangled in race in America, won for Best Limited Series or TV Motion Picture, and the show's Sarah Paulson won for Best Actress in a Limited Series or TV Movie.

Blackness and African American culture play prominent roles in all three of these series.

In Atlanta, Glover "wanted to show white people, [they] don’t know everything about black culture," he told New York Magazine last year. He did that through an exclusively black writing staff (almost unheard of in TV and film) and an authentic portrayal of the distinctions and parallels of intra and inter-racial relations. The show had one of the biggest cable comedy premieres of 2016, and ratings only grew, causing an almost immediate renewal by FX.

"I really just want to thank Atlanta and all the black folks in Atlanta just for being alive and being amazing people," Glover said in his acceptance speech for the Best Series, Comedy or Musical award. "I couldn't be here without Atlanta."

Black-ish is one of few broadcast series to center around an almost entirely black cast. (The show's crew is also predominately black.) The sitcom often addresses racial tension head-on, including in the second season premiere, which was titled "The Word" and focused on the use of the N-word, one of the English language’s greatest taboos.

"That’s what we try to do for the show in general--just start a conversation,” creator Kenya Barris said of the episode.

The show has succeeded commercially and is among ABC's highest-rated sitcoms. In a move that will earn ABC Studies a pretty penny, Hulu recently purchased exclusive streaming rights to the series.

One of the most-nominated series at this year's Golden Globes, The People vs. O.J. Simpson took a direct look at the layers of racial pressure and complexities surrounding Simpson's trial. The opening scene of the premiere showed the 1992 Los Angeles Riots, and, from that point on, the series' mission was to portray the consequences of institutionalized racism.

“Making it all about race, in terms of trying to give larger ideas to the trial,” was the most important thing for the show to get right, said writer Scott Alexander. “White Americans and black Americans perceive life differently. They live life differently, and they get different forms of justice.”

Like Black-ish, The People vs. O.J. Simpson was a ratings hit. It was among the highest-rated new cable series of 2016, averaging 12.7 million viewers per episode.

While Moonlight, the coming-of-age story of a black, gay man in Miami, won arguably the biggest award of the night—Best Picture, Drama—it was one of only two diverse wins in the film categories (the other being Viola Davis' Best Supporting Actress win for Fences).

This reflects the relative lack of diversity in film, compared to TV. According to the 2016 Annenberg School Report on Diversity, 21.8% of leading actors on film were of underrepresented races. On TV, the number is slightly better, with recurring characters of underrepresented races making up 26.6% of all characters.

There are many reasons that television is more consistently inclusive of minority characters than film, but a large part of it is financial. Films, particularly large studio productions, cost many millions, often hitting the high eight or low nine figures. Even the most expensive TV shows are rarely done for more than $50 million per season. With a lot more money on the line, large production companies favor films that play it safe, and due to the historic underrepresentation of minorities in film, safe often means white.

"There's a myth of what a film with a cast that looks like this, where it can show. This movie has defied those perceptions," said Moonlight writer and director Barry Jenkins following the ceremony. Though the film only originally opened in four theaters, it has expanded to 650, grossing $13.3 domestically since its October release. It has also been sold in 20 territories globally.

Television has the freedom to be more niche, as a show has to be seen by many fewer people to make money. It is because of this that shows like Atlanta, The People vs O.J. Simpson, Black-ish and Insecure (which saw Issa Rae nominated for Best Actress and was nominated for Best Comedy Series) can get created and prove Hollywood wrong with their universal appeal.

“I like making people relate to people of color and black people specifically. Especially in these times, that's a cool trait,” Rae told the Hollywood Reporter. “That's such a powerful tool, to bring people into your world and to bring a sense of understanding.”

The likes of Rae, Glover and Ross have shown television producers and networks that a show celebrating diverse people and stories can thrive both critically and commercially. As more and more films like Moonlight prove Hollywood wrong, hopefully filmmakers can afford to follow suit.

Read More on the Golden Globes:

Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners

'La La Land' Breaks Record For Most Golden Globe Wins Ever

Donald Glover Wins Big For 'Atlanta' At The Golden Globes

Ryan Gosling Wins Golden Globe For 'La La Land' Performance

Emma Stone Of 'La La Land' Wins Golden Globe

Golden Globes 2017: By The Numbers

For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg.