Chinese man abducted aged 7 is reunited with his father after eating a plate of oysters
How a plate of oysters help a Chinese man find his long-lost father


Emotional: Li Risheng (right) finally met his father, Li Shengxiong (left), after 13 years

A Chinese man's fate has been changed thanks to a plate of fried oysters.

Li Risheng, who was separated from his family 13 years ago, has found his long-lost father after recalling the name of his hometown while eating its specialty dish, according to Chinese media.

The 20-year-old was reportedly sold to another family at the age of seven and had tried to find his birth parents for more than a decade.

Last year, Li had some fried oysters at a hawker stall and realised it was the taste from his childhood.

Li Risheng, who has been re-named Ye Fengqing by his new family, met his father on January 6 at the Maoming Public Security Bureau, according to Guangzhou Daily.

The pair cried uncontrollably in each others' arms after being separated for more than a decade.

The police officers were able to reunite Li Risheng and his father Li Shenxiong after comparing their DNA samples in China's national DNA database for missing and abducted children.

According to Li Risheng, he was sold to another family when he was about seven years old.

Li said one day he followed his mother and two of her friends to go shopping after dinner. The four took a bus and little Li fell asleep on the bus.

Li said when he woke up, he found himself in a derelict farm house with his mother and her friends. When he got up the next morning, he could only see one of her mother's friends, who promised to help him find his mother.

However, instead of taking Li back home, the unnamed woman transported Li to another town before selling him to a family living in Yangjiang city.

The family later moved to Yunfu city, where Li grew up.

Happy ending: Li Risheng (right) was separated from his father at the age of seven before being sold to another family. The man had missed his birth parents ever since

Li added that he had tried to escape from his new family when he was first sold to them, but his multiple attempts failed.

He later gave up the idea of fleeing because he had got used to living with his new parents, the man claimed.

The report did not confirm whether or not Li's birth mother knew the boy was taken and sold.

The man now lives in Wenshan, Yunnan Province, as a migrant worker.

He said he had never given up the hope of seeing his birth parents again.

At the end of 2015, he registered his information on Baobeihuijia, or 'Baby Come Home', a Chinese website specialised in connecting missing children and their families.

His fate changed when he ordered a plate of fried oysters at a food stall in Wenshan in early 2016.

Li said as soon as he bit into the oysters, he recalled it was the taste from his childhood. The stall owner told him that the dish was a specialty from Dianbai District in Maoming, where Diancheng town is.

Li immediately set out to the area to find his parents, but he didn't manage to track them down.

Taste of home: Li Risheng was able to recall the name of his hometown after eating a plate of fried oysters, the food he would eat when he was little

In September, 2016, volunteers from Baibeihuijia brought Li to the Shenzhen Public Security Bureau to collect his blood sample for DNA analysis.

The officers also collected his accounts.

Police officers in Shenzhen reported the case to their colleagues in Maoming, who managed to track down a man named Li Shengxiong whose son went missing.

In December, volunteers from Baobeihuijia brought a man named Li Shengxiong whose son went missing to Dianbai police for DNA analysis.

On January 6, the local police of Dianbai District confirmed that Li Shengxiong was Li Risheng's father.

The pair were invited to the Maoming Public Security Bureau to meet each other after 13 years of separation.