Turkish marriage guide lays out sexist rules and violent behavior
Turkish marriage guide says men can beat their wives


A shocking book that says husbands can beat their wives and women should wear sexy outfits to make amends with their spouses is being handed out in parts of Turkey.

The book, called 'Marriage and Family Life' by Hasan Çalışkan, a former employee of the Office of Religious Affairs called Diyanet, has been slammed by Turkish politicians for the controversial 'advice' it offers to couples.

A shocking book which encourages men to beat their wives is being published in Turkey (stock image)

Some of the appalling statements that were written in the book include:

'A woman who does not beautify herself for her husband, and who does not obey the headmanship of the man can be beaten; this would remind her of the ruler of the house, which is like medicine'

'Polygamy is beneficial. Would it not be better if, instead of divorcing his bad-tempered wife and making her a trouble for another man, the man took a second wife, prompting her feelings of competition, and eventually bringing her down?'

The book, called 'Marriage and Family Life' by Hasan Çalışkan, encourages polygamy, children to get married as young as 10 and for women to not speak during sex as it could lead to child being born with a speech impediment

Other shocking statements made in the 'education manual' include children as young as 10 can get married, women should not work as it 'badly influences' the woman's 'sexual duties' to her spouse and women should not speak during sex as it could lead to a child being born with a speech impediment.

The 394 page publication was reportedly handed out to people in the city of Kütahya, about 200 miles south of Istanbul, by Kutahya council.

A similar version of the manuscript, called 'Marriage and Privacy' was also issued by Pamukkale city council in south west Turkey.

Deputy of the opposition party CHP, Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet, said the book (left) was 'irrational', 'unconscionable' and 'considers women as sheep'

She brought it to the attention of the Grand Assembly where she slammed it

Members of the main opposition, CHP Republican People's Party, have called the book 'irrational', 'unconscionable' and 'depicts woman as second-class citizens and defines them as sexual slaves'.

It was brought to the attention of the Grand Assembly by CHP deputy, Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet.

According to Sol International, she said: 'This is an irrational, unconscionable book that considers women as sheep, by saying the "the man is the shepherd of the family". My hairs stood on end as I continued to read it.'

The leader of the party, Zeliha Aksaz Sahbaz, added the book 'depicts women as second-class citizens and defines them as sexual slaves'.

Education Minister İsmet Yılmaz (left) described the publication as 'primitive and non-scientific' but mayor of Kutahya, Kamil Saracoglu, (right) said the council had only just received complaints about it, despite it first being given in 2014

The Education Minister İsmet Yılmaz described the publication as 'primitive and non-scientific'.

But the mayor of Kutahya, Kamil Saracoglu, said the council, who has been handing out the books since 2014, had not received any complaints about the book until last month.

According to SonDakika.com, a statement published on Kutahya council's website from the mayor said: 'We do not publish this book as a municipality, we buy it from a bookshop and give it as a gift to the marriage.