Golden Globes Ratings Up As A Political Meryl Streep Steals The Show
Golden Globes Ratings Up As A Political Meryl Streep Steals The Show
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Madeline Berg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Actress Meryl Streep won the Cecil B. DeMille Award last night--and her acceptance speech was one of the most-talked-about moments of the night. (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Last night's Golden Globe Awards ceremony did something almost unheard of in today's broadcast world: It saw a viewership increase over last year. Between 8 and 11 p.m. EST,  the telecast averaged 20 million viewers--up 1.5 million, or 8%,  from last year--and had a 5.6 rating--up 2% from last year-- in the lucrative 18-49 demographic. Other than 2014's show hosted by comedic duo Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, this is the most-watched  version of the ceremony in 10 years. This makes last night's show the exception to the rule. Other than the 2016 Tony Awards--boosted by fever and host James Corden--all award show telecasts (including the highly rated Academy Awards and Grammys) have seen rating declines in recent years. While the lack of competition from an NFL game and a tight run-of-show (the program ended only three minutes past 11 p.m.) helped the broadcast, host Jimmy Fallon and actress Meryl Streep, who won the Cecil B. DeMille Award, may be the real ones to thank for the high ratings, as people stayed on to see how they tackled the elephant in the room: President-elect Donald Trump. Fallon, who consistently pulls in the top ratings in late night, has faced criticism for his soft treatment of Trump (including a memorable ruffling of the then-Republican candidate's hair in September). Fallon didn't shy away from the topic of the moment: His opening monologue began with a dig at Trump's loss of the popular vote and a comparison between the president-elect and villain Joffrey Baratheon. But after those initial jabs, his hosting chat did little to address the political climate. It was Streep who used her platform to speak earnestly about Trump. Her speech, which was the most talked-about moment of the night on Twitter and the the top social moment on Facebook, is being lauded by many for forgoing self-congratulatory remarks and instead delivering a cautionary tale of the hateful American political landscape. Without once naming Trump, she alluded to his treatment of reporter Serge F. Kovaleski, who has disabilities. (Trump has denied mocking the reporter, who has a congenital disorder.) "Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence," Streep said, calling for entertainment that creates empathy. "When the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose." Streep discussed the diversity of Hollywood, noting the many foreigners (Canada's Ryan Gosling, Ireland and Ethiopia's Ruth Negga) and champions of adversity (Viola Davis was born in a sharecropper's cabin; Sarah Paulson was raised by a single mother) in the room. " She ended with a call on members of the entertainment industry to not give into a climate of fear, but instead create meaningful work that inspires and unites people. And while Trump has already retorted on Twitter-- calling the actress over-rated --Streep has a large number of supporters in entertainment and beyond. "M Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners Thanks To Hollywood Economics, TV Diversity Wins Big At The Golden Globes Ryan Gosling Wins Golden Globe For 'La La Land' Performance Emma Stone Of 'La La Land' Wins Golden Globe 'Moonlight' Wins Best Picture At The 2017 Golden Globes Golden Globes Nominees 2017: The Full List Golden Globes 2017: By The Numbers The Highest-Paid Golden Globes Nominees For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Last night's Golden Globe Awards ceremony did something almost unheard of in today's broadcast world: It saw a viewership increase over last year.

Between 8 and 11 p.m. EST, the telecast averaged 20 million viewers--up 1.5 million, or 8%, from last year--and had a 5.6 rating--up 2% from last year-- in the lucrative 18-49 demographic. Other than 2014's show hosted by comedic duo Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, this is the most-watched version of the ceremony in 10 years.

This makes last night's show the exception to the rule. Other than the 2016 Tony Awards--boosted by Hamilton fever and host James Corden--all award show telecasts (including the highly rated Academy Awards and Grammys) have seen rating declines in recent years.

Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners

While the lack of competition from an NFL game and a tight run-of-show (the program ended only three minutes past 11 p.m.) helped the broadcast, host Jimmy Fallon and actress Meryl Streep, who won the Cecil B. DeMille Award, may be the real ones to thank for the high ratings, as people stayed on to see how they tackled the elephant in the room: President-elect Donald Trump.

Fallon, who consistently pulls in the top ratings in late night, has faced criticism for his soft treatment of Trump (including a memorable ruffling of the then-Republican candidate's hair in September). Fallon didn't shy away from the topic of the moment: His opening monologue began with a dig at Trump's loss of the popular vote and a comparison between the president-elect and Game of Thrones villain Joffrey Baratheon. But after those initial jabs, his hosting chat did little to address the political climate.

It was Streep who used her platform to speak earnestly about Trump. Her speech, which was the most talked-about moment of the night on Twitter and the the top social moment on Facebook, is being lauded by many for forgoing self-congratulatory remarks and instead delivering a cautionary tale of the hateful American political landscape.

Without once naming Trump, she alluded to his treatment of reporter Serge F. Kovaleski, who has disabilities. (Trump has denied mocking the reporter, who has a congenital disorder.)

"Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence," Streep said, calling for entertainment that creates empathy. "When the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose."

Streep discussed the diversity of Hollywood, noting the many foreigners (Canada's Ryan Gosling, Ireland and Ethiopia's Ruth Negga) and champions of adversity (Viola Davis was born in a sharecropper's cabin; Sarah Paulson was raised by a single mother) in the room.

"Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners, and if we kick them all out, you'll have nothing to watch but football and mixed martial arts, which are not the arts," she said.

She ended with a call on members of the entertainment industry to not give into a climate of fear, but instead create meaningful work that inspires and unites people.

And while Trump has already retorted on Twitter--calling the actress over-rated--Streep has a large number of supporters in entertainment and beyond.

"Make your broken heart, make it into art," she said, concluding her speech as the crowd erupted into the only standing ovation of the night.

Golden Globes 2017: Full List Of Winners

Thanks To Hollywood Economics, TV Diversity Wins Big At The Golden Globes

Ryan Gosling Wins Golden Globe For 'La La Land' Performance

Emma Stone Of 'La La Land' Wins Golden Globe

'Moonlight' Wins Best Picture At The 2017 Golden Globes

Golden Globes Nominees 2017: The Full List

Golden Globes 2017: By The Numbers

The Highest-Paid Golden Globes Nominees

For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg.