Why Investing In 2016's Worst-Performing Industries May Be Your Best Portfolio Play
Why Investing In 2016's Worst-Performing Industries May Be Your Best Portfolio Play
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Corinne Jurney       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Biotech companies had a bad year in 2016, earning a threatening Tweet from President-Elect Trump for all their exploitative pricing and ending the year down 14.4%. But there's reason to think the sector's strongest company could be a good bet in 2017. It's a strategy that Sam Stovall, CFRA's chief investment strategist, calls 'The Barbell Portfolio' and it's a snazzier version of the 'Dogs of the Dow,' an allocation that calls for buying index laggards to bet on a performance reversal. 77 Design by Bailey Brautigan leads the floundering biotech industry, ranking #402 in profit on FORBES Global 2000 list of biggest global companies. CFRA ranks Celgene as a strong buy and the company’s stock is up 10% from January 2016. The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB) ended 2016 at 265.4, down 23% from where it began the year and the ETF under-performed the market by 31.9%. Among the 10 stocks representing the highest echelon of last year’s market are Deere & Co, , Corp. and . The top industries are more likely to show up in the better half of the barbell, year after year thanks to momentum strong stocks enjoy during their upward ride, says Stovall. “How many people who own a stock that’s hit a 52-week high are disappointed? None,” says Stovall. “How many of these un-disappointed people are going to tell their friends who aren’t going to do their homework and are just going to buy based on the recommendation?” So what about the 33% times the Barbell Portfolio didn’t outperform the market since 1991? “I’m a believer that Murphy’s law applies to investing as well,” says Stovall. “The year that you give up on a previously consistent strategy is the year in which it will start working again.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Biotech companies had a bad year in 2016, earning a threatening Tweet from President-Elect Trump for all their exploitative pricing and ending the year down 14.4%. But there's reason to think the sector's strongest company could be a good bet in 2017.

It's a strategy that Sam Stovall, CFRA's chief investment strategist, calls 'The Barbell Portfolio' and it's a snazzier version of the 'Dogs of the Dow,' an allocation that calls for buying index laggards to bet on a performance reversal. The strategy is rooted in cherry-picking the best stocks in the 10 worst, and 10 best, sub-industries, based on the highest buy/hold/sell rankings in each category.

The portfolio has outperformed the broader market 77% of the time since 1991 with a total compound annual growth rate of 13.8%, which is higher than the return delivered by the 10 companies that comprise the top, or the bottom, industries each year.

leads the floundering biotech industry, ranking #402 in profit on FORBES Global 2000 list of biggest global companies. CFRA ranks Celgene as a strong buy and the company’s stock is up 10% from January 2016. The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB) ended 2016 at 265.4, down 23% from where it began the year and the ETF under-performed the market by 31.9%.

“When it comes to the 10 worst, it’s like how long can you hold a balloon under water?” says Stovall.

Among the 10 stocks representing the highest echelon of last year’s market are Deere & Co, , Corp. and .

The top industries are more likely to show up in the better half of the barbell, year after year thanks to momentum strong stocks enjoy during their upward ride, says Stovall.

“How many people who own a stock that’s hit a 52-week high are disappointed? None,” says Stovall. “How many of these un-disappointed people are going to tell their friends who aren’t going to do their homework and are just going to buy based on the recommendation?”

So what about the 33% times the Barbell Portfolio didn’t outperform the market since 1991?

“I’m a believer that Murphy’s law applies to investing as well,” says Stovall. “The year that you give up on a previously consistent strategy is the year in which it will start working again.”