Meet The 2017 Class Of 30 Under 30
Meet The 2017 Class Of 30 Under 30
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Caroline Howard       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Class of 2017 (clockwise from top left): Emily Motayed, Tyler Oakley, Candice Galek, James Heller, Alice Zhang, Mitchell Hashimoto The 2017 FORBES 30 Under 30 is the most definitive gathering of today’s leading young change-makers and innovators in the U.S. Now in its sixth year, the 30 Under 30 offers an annual opportunity to embrace the optimism, inventiveness and boldness of youth. We bring you 30 game changers in 20 industries all under 30 years old -- 600 in total -- who are challenging the conventional wisdom and rewriting the rules for the next generation of entrepreneurs, entertainers, educators and more. They are passionate and formidable bunch, and for good reason. Their goal is nothing short of breaking the status quo and transforming the world. The list was originally inspired by the rising tide young entrepreneurs, mostly in the tech business, making big waves and earning even bigger bucks and world-wide followings. It’s clear that never before has youth been such an advantage. Millennial founders and funders, brand builders and do-gooders aren’t waiting around for a career bump up the establishment ladder. Their ambitions are way bigger -- and perfectly suited to the dynamic, entrepreneurial and impatient digital world they grew up in. 2017 30 Under 30: The Standouts It's an inspiring group. This year’s list of 600 is packed with boldfaced names, such as actress Margot Robbie , five time Pro Bowler Von Miller , singer Gallant , Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Wesley Lowery , vegan chef and “Cupcake Wars” winner Chloe Coscarelli , and social media personalities Kylie Jenner and Tyler Oakley . Many others, like Mitchell Hashimoto , Andy “Reginald” Dinh , Lu Zhang and Whitney Wolfe , are superstars in their own realms, and soon to be on your radar. Twenty-five-year-old Hashimoto’s open source software company, HashiCorp, has raised $34.7 million in venture funding and has a roster of blue-chip customers including eBay, Disney, PayPal, Stripe, and nearly every U.S. bank. Twenty-four-year-old gaming legend Dinh’s Team SoloMid is North America’s top squad in the Tencent-owned game League of Legends, and boasts a YouTube channel garnering over 120 million views. Zhang, 27, is a rare female Silicon Valley VC from China. Her NewGen Capital specializes in early stage tech investments, and has raised $92 million and has made 38 investments so far. Wolfe, 27, helped create two top apps that change the way we date: Tinder and Bumble. They are in 24-karat company. Previous honorees include billionaires Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Spiegel , Jennifer Lawrence (Hollywood’s highest paid actress), Oculus VR’s Palmer Lucky , Chance the Rapper , Olympic Gold Medalist Alex Morgan , plus-sized model Ashley Graham , Global Citizen cofounder Hugh Evans , SNL’s Kate McKinnon , YouTube phenom Michelle Phan and theSkimm’s Danielle Weisberg and Carly Zakin . The 30 Under 30 community is now some 4,000 strong the world over, from the U.S. to Europe to Asia. There are 20 categories with 30 honorees. The categories are Art & Style , Consumer Tech , Education , Energy , Enterprise Tech , Finance , Food & Drink , Games , Healthcare , Hollywood & Entertainment , Law & Policy , Manufacturing & Industry , Marketing & Advertising , Media , Music , Retail & E-commerce , Science , Social Entrepreneurs , Sports and Venture Capital . For the first time, you can also sort through our editorial cuts: Immigrants , Celebrities , Youngest , Dorm Room Founders and All-Star Alumni . Our “no repeats” policy insures surfacing new talent every year. This year the competition was more extreme than ever: 15,000+ nominations for just 600 spots. That’s an under 4% acceptance rate; making it harder to get into than the nation’s two most selective colleges, Stanford University (4.8%) and Harvard University (5.2%). Our staff sorts through the nominations and passes them on to an army of 50 expert staff reporters and editors. We work closely with 80 A-list judges in each category, including James Harden and Phil Knight in Sports; T. Boone Pickens in Energy; Anne Wojcicki in Healthcare; Pete Cashmore and Shane Smith in Media; Jason Derulo and Halsey in Music; Alex Guarnaschelli and Marcus Samuelsson in Food & Drink; John Collison in Consumer Tech' Christian Siriano in Art & Style; Jennifer Hyman in Retail & E-commerce; Alfred Lin in Venture Capital; Wendy Kopp and Arne Duncan in Education; and Jean Case and FORBES magazine editor Randall Lane in Social Entrepreneurs. 50%+ are founders or cofounders 57% started their business to solve a problem; 27% want their business to change the world 75% live or work on the two coasts: 39% on the West Coast; 36% on the East Coast 1:6 are immigrants from 44 countries 5 most attended universities: Harvard University, MIT, New York University, Stanford University, University of Pennsylvania No. 1 dream mentor (by far): Elon Musk. Others most preferred include Bill Gates, Barack Obama, Sheryl Sandberg Nearly half (49%) describe millennials as Innovators. Other most-used definitions: Idealists (23%); Influencers (18%); Inventors (10%) Nearly half (48%) describe success as achieving your potential, or liking yourself and what you do (also 48%). Only 4% pursue success for fame and fortune. 35% believe Grit is the most important trait for entrepreneurs; followed by Passion (21%) 3 go-to apps: Instagram, Slack, Twitter Caroline Howard, Natalie Sportelli Susan Adams, Abram Brown, Madeline Berg, Keren Blankfeld, Kathleen Chaykowski, Justin Conklin, Hayley Cuccinello, Christopher Denhart, Kathryn Dill, David Ewalt, Amy Feldman, Daniel Fisher, Antoine Gara, Zack O’Malley Greenburg, Parul Guliani, Sarah Hedgecock, Christopher Helman, Matthew Herper, Caroline Howard, Emily Inverso, Corinne Jurney, Dan Kleinman, Alex Knapp, Lilly Knoepp, Alex Konrad, Jordan Lebeau, Maggie McGrath, Ryan Mac, Joann Muller, Clare O’Connor, Matt Perez, James Plafke, Natalie Robehmed, Jennifer Rooney, Avik Roy, Chris Smith, Brian Solomon, Michael Solomon, Natalie Sportelli, Aaron Tilley, : Michela Tindera, Glenda Toma, Vicky Valet, Nathan Vardi, Kate Vinton, Alexandra Wilson. Salah Zalatimo, Nina Gould, Uyen Cao, Tom Conroy, Kai Hecker, Andrew Huang, Emily Inverso, Ariana Santana, Dmitri Slavinski, Louie Torres, Kayla Brizo Kirsten Taggart; Tim Pierson, Morgan Sun, Meghan Christensen, Brian Petchers, Greg Andersson, Margaret Leigh Sinrod, Chad McClymonds, Matt Kang, Amanda Tallini, Jon Palmer Bob Mansfield; Robyn Selman, Merrilee Barton, Sarah Bonk, Michele Hadlow, Gail Toivanen; Joseph DeAcitas, Juan Benson Susan Radlauer (director), Sarah Munir, Yizhu Wang     Trending on {{channel_name}}

The 2017 FORBES 30 Under 30 is the most definitive gathering of today’s leading young change-makers and innovators in the U.S. Now in its sixth year, the 30 Under 30 offers an annual opportunity to embrace the optimism, inventiveness and boldness of youth. We bring you 30 game changers in 20 industries all under 30 years old -- 600 in total -- who are challenging the conventional wisdom and rewriting the rules for the next generation of entrepreneurs, entertainers, educators and more. They are passionate and formidable bunch, and for good reason. Their goal is nothing short of breaking the status quo and transforming the world.

The list was originally inspired by the rising tide young entrepreneurs, mostly in the tech business, making big waves and earning even bigger bucks and world-wide followings. It’s clear that never before has youth been such an advantage. Millennial founders and funders, brand builders and do-gooders aren’t waiting around for a career bump up the establishment ladder. Their ambitions are way bigger -- and perfectly suited to the dynamic, entrepreneurial and impatient digital world they grew up in.

The Class of 2017

It's an inspiring group. This year’s list of 600 is packed with boldfaced names, such as actress Margot Robbie, five time Pro Bowler Von Miller, singer Gallant, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Wesley Lowery, vegan chef and “Cupcake Wars” winner Chloe Coscarelli, and social media personalities Kylie Jenner and Tyler Oakley. Many others, like Mitchell Hashimoto, Andy “Reginald” Dinh, Lu Zhang and Whitney Wolfe, are superstars in their own realms, and soon to be on your radar.

Twenty-five-year-old Hashimoto’s open source software company, HashiCorp, has raised $34.7 million in venture funding and has a roster of blue-chip customers including eBay, Disney, PayPal, Stripe, and nearly every U.S. bank. Twenty-four-year-old gaming legend Dinh’s Team SoloMid is North America’s top squad in the Tencent-owned game League of Legends, and boasts a YouTube channel garnering over 120 million views. Zhang, 27, is a rare female Silicon Valley VC from China. Her NewGen Capital specializes in early stage tech investments, and has raised $92 million and has made 38 investments so far. Wolfe, 27, helped create two top apps that change the way we date: Tinder and Bumble.

They are in 24-karat company. Previous honorees include billionaires Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Spiegel, Jennifer Lawrence (Hollywood’s highest paid actress), Oculus VR’s Palmer Lucky, Chance the Rapper, Olympic Gold Medalist Alex Morgan, plus-sized model Ashley Graham, Global Citizen cofounder Hugh Evans, SNL’s Kate McKinnon, YouTube phenom Michelle Phan and theSkimm’s Danielle Weisberg and Carly Zakin. The 30 Under 30 community is now some 4,000 strong the world over, from the U.S. to Europe to Asia.

A walk through of the process:

There are 20 categories with 30 honorees. The categories are Art & Style, Consumer Tech, Education, Energy, Enterprise Tech, Finance, Food & Drink, Games, Healthcare, Hollywood & Entertainment, Law & Policy, Manufacturing & Industry, Marketing & Advertising, Media, Music, Retail & E-commerce, Science, Social Entrepreneurs, Sports and Venture Capital. For the first time, you can also sort through our editorial cuts: Immigrants, Celebrities, Youngest, Dorm Room Founders and All-Star Alumni. Our “no repeats” policy insures surfacing new talent every year.

This year the competition was more extreme than ever: 15,000+ nominations for just 600 spots. That’s an under 4% acceptance rate; making it harder to get into than the nation’s two most selective colleges, Stanford University (4.8%) and Harvard University (5.2%). Our staff sorts through the nominations and passes them on to an army of 50 expert staff reporters and editors.

We work closely with 80 A-list judges in each category, including James Harden and Phil Knight in Sports; T. Boone Pickens in Energy; Anne Wojcicki in Healthcare; Pete Cashmore and Shane Smith in Media; Jason Derulo and Halsey in Music; Alex Guarnaschelli and Marcus Samuelsson in Food & Drink; John Collison in Consumer Tech' Christian Siriano in Art & Style; Jennifer Hyman in Retail & E-commerce; Alfred Lin in Venture Capital; Wendy Kopp and Arne Duncan in Education; and Jean Case and FORBES magazine editor Randall Lane in Social Entrepreneurs.

30 Under 30 2017 By The Numbers:

50%+ are founders or cofounders

57% started their business to solve a problem; 27% want their business to change the world

75% live or work on the two coasts: 39% on the West Coast; 36% on the East Coast

1:6 are immigrants from 44 countries

5 most attended universities: Harvard University, MIT, New York University, Stanford University, University of Pennsylvania

No. 1 dream mentor (by far): Elon Musk. Others most preferred include Bill Gates, Barack Obama, Sheryl Sandberg

Nearly half (49%) describe millennials as Innovators. Other most-used definitions: Idealists (23%); Influencers (18%); Inventors (10%)

Nearly half (48%) describe success as achieving your potential, or liking yourself and what you do (also 48%). Only 4% pursue success for fame and fortune.

35% believe Grit is the most important trait for entrepreneurs; followed by Passion (21%)

3 go-to apps: Instagram, Slack, Twitter

Credits: Editors: Caroline Howard, Natalie Sportelli

Reporters: Susan Adams, Abram Brown, Madeline Berg, Keren Blankfeld, Kathleen Chaykowski, Justin Conklin, Hayley Cuccinello, Christopher Denhart, Kathryn Dill, David Ewalt, Amy Feldman, Daniel Fisher, Antoine Gara, Zack O’Malley Greenburg, Parul Guliani, Sarah Hedgecock, Christopher Helman, Matthew Herper, Caroline Howard, Emily Inverso, Corinne Jurney, Dan Kleinman, Alex Knapp, Lilly Knoepp, Alex Konrad, Jordan Lebeau, Maggie McGrath, Ryan Mac, Joann Muller, Clare O’Connor, Matt Perez, James Plafke, Natalie Robehmed, Jennifer Rooney, Avik Roy, Chris Smith, Brian Solomon, Michael Solomon, Natalie Sportelli, Aaron Tilley, : Michela Tindera, Glenda Toma, Vicky Valet, Nathan Vardi, Kate Vinton, Alexandra Wilson.

Product: Salah Zalatimo, Nina Gould, Uyen Cao, Tom Conroy, Kai Hecker, Andrew Huang, Emily Inverso, Ariana Santana, Dmitri Slavinski, Louie Torres, Kayla Brizo

Video: Kirsten Taggart; Tim Pierson, Morgan Sun, Meghan Christensen, Brian Petchers, Greg Andersson, Margaret Leigh Sinrod, Chad McClymonds, Matt Kang, Amanda Tallini, Jon Palmer

Design/Photography/Style: Bob Mansfield; Robyn Selman, Merrilee Barton, Sarah Bonk, Michele Hadlow, Gail Toivanen; Joseph DeAcitas, Juan Benson

Research: Susan Radlauer (director), Sarah Munir, Yizhu Wang