Paul Millsap Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Hawks PF
Paul Millsap Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Hawks PF
One of the top big men in the NBA was on the trade block, with the Atlanta Hawks reportedly listening to offers for Paul Millsap. However, it appears as if Millsap won't be headed anywhere in the near future. Continue for updates. Hawks Reportedly Pull Millsap from Trade Block Monday, Jan. 9 Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Hawks general manager Wes Wilcox "has started informing teams today that [Millsap] is no longer on the trade market." Wojnarowski added the Hawks are "determined to compete in the Eastern Conference and Millsap decision signals a shift away from unloading assets." Millsap Comments on Trade Rumors Monday, Jan. 9 Millsap told reporters Monday his heart was in Atlanta and that he's happy he won't be traded. Millsap noted he wants to "finish the job." Millsap told reporters Jan. 3 that "everybody knows where my heart is and where I want to be." When asked if that was Atlanta, the power forward confirmed it was. Hawks in Active Talks with Several Teams Thursday, Jan. 5 Wojnarowski reported the Hawks are in talks with several interested teams about a Millsap trade after reportedly moving Kyle Korver to the Cleveland Cavaliers. Wojnarowski noted the Denver Nuggets and Toronto Raptors are interested in the forward. Chris Vivlamore of the reported the Sacramento Kings are one team that's "very" interested. Hawks Considering Millsap Trade Sunday, Jan. 1 Marc Stein and Brian Windhorst Millsap Set to Test Free-Agent Market Millsap has been an All-Star in each of the last three seasons, but he could become a free agent at the end of the season. Chris Haynes of ESPN.com reported the forward is planning on opting out of his contract, forgoing more than $21 million for 2017-18. For the season, Millsap is averaging 17.7 points, 8.2 rebounds and a career-high 3.8 assists per game. Atlanta holds a 21-16 record, just two years removed from reaching the Eastern Conference Finals after posting the best record in the conference in 2014-15. Two other key members of that team, Al Horford and Jeff Teague, have already left the organization. Millsap could provide a lot of value for a contender as one of the best two-way power forwards in the NBA. He is a consistent scorer, recording at least 16 points per game in each of his four seasons with Atlanta, and he has 10 double-doubles in 2016-17 after tallying 32 last season. He is also a strong defender who earned second-team All-Defensive honors in 2015-16. Per Basketball-Reference.com , he led the NBA with 6.0 defensive win shares. Adding in the fact he has never missed more than nine games in a season during his career, Millsap would be a valuable addition for the remainder of this year and possibly beyond. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Layne Murdoch/Getty Images

One of the top big men in the NBA was on the trade block, with the Atlanta Hawks reportedly listening to offers for Paul Millsap. However, it appears as if Millsap won't be headed anywhere in the near future.

Continue for updates.

Hawks Reportedly Pull Millsap from Trade Block

Monday, Jan. 9

Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported Hawks general manager Wes Wilcox "has started informing teams today that [Millsap] is no longer on the trade market."

Wojnarowski added the Hawks are "determined to compete in the Eastern Conference and Millsap decision signals a shift away from unloading assets."

Millsap Comments on Trade Rumors

Monday, Jan. 9

Millsap told reporters Monday his heart was in Atlanta and that he's happy he won't be traded. Millsap noted he wants to "finish the job."

Millsap told reporters Jan. 3 that "everybody knows where my heart is and where I want to be." When asked if that was Atlanta, the power forward confirmed it was.

Hawks in Active Talks with Several Teams

Thursday, Jan. 5

Wojnarowski reported the Hawks are in talks with several interested teams about a Millsap trade after reportedly moving Kyle Korver to the Cleveland Cavaliers. Wojnarowski noted the Denver Nuggets and Toronto Raptors are interested in the forward.

Chris Vivlamore of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported the Sacramento Kings are one team that's "very" interested.

Hawks Considering Millsap Trade

Sunday, Jan. 1

Marc Stein and Brian Windhorst of ESPN.com reported the buzz around Millsap, noting the Hawks are also taking calls on Thabo Sefolosha and Kyle Korver.

Millsap Set to Test Free-Agent Market

Millsap has been an All-Star in each of the last three seasons, but he could become a free agent at the end of the season. Chris Haynes of ESPN.com reported the forward is planning on opting out of his contract, forgoing more than $21 million for 2017-18.

For the season, Millsap is averaging 17.7 points, 8.2 rebounds and a career-high 3.8 assists per game.

Atlanta holds a 21-16 record, just two years removed from reaching the Eastern Conference Finals after posting the best record in the conference in 2014-15.

Two other key members of that team, Al Horford and Jeff Teague, have already left the organization.

Millsap could provide a lot of value for a contender as one of the best two-way power forwards in the NBA. He is a consistent scorer, recording at least 16 points per game in each of his four seasons with Atlanta, and he has 10 double-doubles in 2016-17 after tallying 32 last season.

He is also a strong defender who earned second-team All-Defensive honors in 2015-16. Per Basketball-Reference.com, he led the NBA with 6.0 defensive win shares.

Adding in the fact he has never missed more than nine games in a season during his career, Millsap would be a valuable addition for the remainder of this year and possibly beyond.