AP ‘Fact Checks’ Trump Tweet About Meryl Streep Being Overrated
AP 'Fact Checks' Trump Tweet About Meryl Streep Being Overrated - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER NEW YORK (AP) — President-elect Donald Trump took to Twitter on Monday, calling Meryl Streep “one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood” following her speech Sunday night at the Golden Globe awards. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER While “overrated” is an opinion, Streep, who took aim at Trump in her speech while accepting the Globes lifetime achievement award, holds the record for the most Academy Award nominations of any actor. She has earned 19 Oscar nominations and three wins, as well as a record 29 Golden Globe nominations and eight wins, and two Emmy Awards. Plus there’s a Presidential Medal of Freedom, not to mention 10 People’s Choice Awards, two British Academy Film Awards, four National Society of Film Critics Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Kennedy Center Honor and has been named a Commandeur de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, the highest civilian honor given by the French government. She’s also earned a Tony Award nomination, five Grammy Award nominations, the American Film Institute’s Life Achievement Award, an MTV Movie Award for Best Villain, an American Comedy Award, an Irish Film and Television Award, two Italian Online Movie Awards, two Teen Choice Award nominations and two Screen Actors Guild Awards. Additionally, there have been honors from film critics from Toronto, St. Louis, San Francisco, Phoenix, Palm Springs, New Jersey, Iowa, Kansas City, Las Vegas, Florida, North Texas, Oklahoma and Washington, D.C. Trump and Streep, who spoke on behalf of Hillary Clinton at this year’s Democratic National Convention, are far apart on politics and have found themselves on opposite ends in Hollywood when it comes to honors. He has two Emmy nominations — no wins — for best outstanding reality competition. But he beat her to one award — a Golden Raspberry. (He won a worst supporting actor trophy in 1989.)

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

The Associated Press is promoting the following article with the headline “FACT CHECK: Streep overrated? Trump picks a decorated star.”

NEW YORK (AP) — President-elect Donald Trump took to Twitter on Monday, calling Meryl Streep “one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood” following her speech Sunday night at the Golden Globe awards.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

While “overrated” is an opinion, Streep, who took aim at Trump in her speech while accepting the Globes lifetime achievement award, holds the record for the most Academy Award nominations of any actor. She has earned 19 Oscar nominations and three wins, as well as a record 29 Golden Globe nominations and eight wins, and two Emmy Awards.

Plus there’s a Presidential Medal of Freedom, not to mention 10 People’s Choice Awards, two British Academy Film Awards, four National Society of Film Critics Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Kennedy Center Honor and has been named a Commandeur de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, the highest civilian honor given by the French government.

She’s also earned a Tony Award nomination, five Grammy Award nominations, the American Film Institute’s Life Achievement Award, an MTV Movie Award for Best Villain, an American Comedy Award, an Irish Film and Television Award, two Italian Online Movie Awards, two Teen Choice Award nominations and two Screen Actors Guild Awards. Additionally, there have been honors from film critics from Toronto, St. Louis, San Francisco, Phoenix, Palm Springs, New Jersey, Iowa, Kansas City, Las Vegas, Florida, North Texas, Oklahoma and Washington, D.C.

Trump and Streep, who spoke on behalf of Hillary Clinton at this year’s Democratic National Convention, are far apart on politics and have found themselves on opposite ends in Hollywood when it comes to honors. He has two Emmy nominations — no wins — for best outstanding reality competition. But he beat her to one award — a Golden Raspberry. (He won a worst supporting actor trophy in 1989.)