20 Times Women Rocked The Red Carpet In Dapper Suits
20 Times Women Rocked The Red Carpet In Dapper Suits
People swooned hard over Evan Rachel Wood’s dapper duds on the Golden Globes carpet last night, and it’s easy to see why — she looked amazing. But everyone swooned even harder when she explained her inspiration for suiting up that evening:  View on Instagram   That same evening, Kathryn Hahn and Octavia Spencer also appeared in downright amazing suits. Frazer Harrison / Getty Images Yes and double yes. *flips open photo album* Let’s take a moment to recall the other amazing women who have walked red carpets, floated over stages, and sat upon late-night talk show couches in their best suits. Comedians and power couple Cameron Esposito and Rhea Butcher could serve as mayors of Dapper Town, USA, if it existed: Think of a suit, any suit — Janelle Monáe has worn it on a red carpet: Seriously. Getty Images Getty Images Carrie Brownstein isn’t one to shy away from a classic look: Tatum O’Neal must take the cake for being one of the youngest dapper ladies to walk the red carpet: And feel free to contact Lena Waithe if you need help with your bow tie: Let us never forget this all polka-dot everything getup worn by Jill Soloway: You’d be hard-pressed to find Ellen DeGeneres in anything other than a jacket and button-down combo: Kevin Winter / Getty Images And Rihanna once went and reinvented all-white everything: Amber Heard taught the world that you can’t go wrong in a tuxedo: Valerie Macon / AFP / Getty Images Though, nobody looks more striking in a suit than the legendary Tilda Swinton: Justin Tallis / AFP / Getty Images But Cate Blanchett manages to give her a run for her money: Maisie Williams may be young, but she rocks a tux like an old pro: Meanwhile, Solange is usually in a suit class all her own: Patti Smith would laugh if you called this a new trend: And Lea DeLaria would join right in: Dave Kotinsky / Getty Images Kristen Stewart made this patterned top an instant classic: And nobody knows how to make a better suit appearance than Ruby Rose: Valerie Macon / AFP / Getty Images But if you’re talking suits on red carpets, you can’t forget the tiniest Canadian Queen of Dapper: Thanks, Canada, for letting us borrow Ellen Page all the time. Are you taking notes? Good. Carlos Alvarez / Getty Images Getty Does this count as a suit? I’m not sure, but whatever Evan Rachel Wood did here was completely historic and should be placed lovingly in a museum: Historic. And some women in suits need no introduction at all: Sonia Moskowitz / Getty Images To conclude: More women in suits, please.   Hold On To Your Cat Ears, Katy Perry Fans, Because...    Jimmy Kimmel Forced Emma Stone To Relive That Awkward...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.