Golden Globes: Meryl Streep, Jimmy Fallon, Hugh Laurie take on Donald Trump



Golden Globes: Meryl Streep, Jimmy Fallon, Hugh Laurie take on Donald Trump

Updated

Donald Trump was not in attendance at the Golden Globes, but he was there in spirit — or more precisely, as the target of a slew of political barbs, not to mention an impassioned takedown by actress Meryl Streep.

On a night that saw La La Land dance its way into the Globes record books, the US President-elect was firmly in the stars' sights.

Only a few seconds into his opening monologue, host Jimmy Fallon noted that the Globes was "one of the few places left where America still honours the popular vote".

He went on to compare the president-elect to the evil King Joffrey in Game of Thrones.

"What would it be like if King Joffrey had lived?" Fallon asked.

"Well, in 12 days we're going to find out."

Which performance stunned Streep the most?

Streep took things in a much more serious direction, excoriating Mr Trump without mentioning his name in an impassioned speech as she accepted the Cecil B DeMille Award.

The much-respected actress, who spoke on behalf of Hillary Clinton at this year's Democratic National Convention, said the "performance" that had most stunned her in recent times was when Mr Trump mocked a disabled reporter.

"It kind of broke my heart when I saw it," she said.

"I still can't get it out of my head, because it wasn't in a movie. It was real life.

"It was the moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter, someone he outranked in privilege, power and the capacity to fight back.

"This instinct to humiliate, when it's modelled by someone ... powerful, it filters down into everybody's life.

"Because it kind of gives permission for other people to do the same thing."

Streep also referenced Mr Trump's policies on immigration when she pointedly listed the multicultural heritage of many Hollywood actors.

"Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners and if you kick them all out, you'll have nothing to watch but football and mixed martial arts, which are not the arts," Streep said, to cheers.

Trump responds to 'Hillary lover' Streep

In a brief telephone interview with The New York Times, Mr Trump dismissed Streep as "a Hillary lover".

He said he had not seen the Golden Globes broadcast or Streep's remarks, but was "not surprised" that he had been targeted by "liberal movie people".

The Times said Mr Trump became heated in the interview as he denied making fun of disabled reporter Serge F Kovaleski.

"People keep saying I intended to mock the reporter's disability, as if Meryl Streep and others could read my mind, and I did no such thing," he told the newspaper.

He later took to Twitter, saying Streep was "one of the most overrated actresses in Hollywood".

Laurie accepts award 'on behalf of psychopathic billionaires'

Streep and Fallon were not alone in their criticism of Mr Trump at the Globes ceremony.

Hugh Laurie, accepting his award for best supporting actor in The Night Manager, also indulged in Trump jokes, speculating that this would perhaps be the last Golden Globes ceremony.

"I don't mean to be gloomy, but it has the words 'Hollywood', 'foreign' and 'press' in the title," Laurie said, explaining his pessimism about the awards surviving the Trump era.

He added that some Republicans did not even like the word "association".

He accepted his award "on behalf of psychopathic billionaires everywhere".

AP

Topics: event, awards-and-prizes, world-politics, united-states

First posted