The Drunkest People At The Golden Globes
The Drunkest People At The Golden Globes
You've maybe heard that the Golden Globes refer to themselves as "the party of the year," a statement that is both true and false. On one hand, Globe attendees are allowed to drink, so the awards show is comparably entertaining. Then again, it's an awards show, and there's definitely a cap on how fun those things can be. Also? It's fucking January; you can't say a thing is the "thing of the year" eleven months before that year ends. That's just cocky. But it's 2017—new year, new me—and I promised to be more positive. So let's celebrate the fun part of the Golden Globes and highlight all the very fancy celebrities who were very drunk. Denzel Washington My guy may not have been drunk on the red carpet, but this is very much a "jfc I wish I slammed Henny in the limo" face. Jenna Bush Hager "you're nominated for Hidden Fences" pic.twitter.com/7My6dtEkbG It's , George W. Bush's daughter. This was almost as embarrassing as the time your pops choked on a pretzel. Michael Keaton someone fucked up pic.twitter.com/SmSqokotnG Because again, IT IS . People shouldn't be this confused because two movies that star black people and share a consonant. Billy Bob Thornton When they announced Billy's nomination, the camera cut to my guy and he was thirstily whispering in a woman's ear. Then he actually won, and his acceptance speech was even more bizarre. You knew Billy was on one after you saw those sunglasses, though. Lakeith Stanfield Seems like a safe assumption. But I mean, can you blame him ? Goldie Hawn Goldie Hawn and Amy Schumer may have been doing a bit when they presented the award for best actor in a comedy. But if not, holy shit, Goldie was the drunkest. She was Old Hollywood drunk—like, "if I crash a car into a children's hospital some shady fixer will make it disappear" drunk. Mel Gibson I remember the first time tried to rest my hand on my chin. (Also, this hand-fumbling happened smack dab in the middle of Meryl Streep's speech about how bullying disabled people is bad. Look at Mel like, "What is this novel concept!?") Hugh Laurie After Meryl Streep repeated his Trump joke (about how "Hollywood Foreign Press" are Republicans' three least favorite words) and got a bigger laugh, House MD was ready to turn up. "I am very excited and on my way to being pleasantly intoxicated." -- Hugh Laurie just now on E! No word yet on how intoxicated House got, but I know that if I watched myself get Dane Cook'ed at the Golden Globes, all bets would be off. Cuba Gooding Jr. This is without a doubt THE CRAZIEST N-word I know A photo posted by Marlon ( ) on Jan 8, 2017 at 11: PST Pictured above: Cuba Gooding Jr., also known as that guy who once tried to eat another man's cell phone .

You've maybe heard that the Golden Globes refer to themselves as "the party of the year," a statement that is both true and false. On one hand, Globe attendees are allowed to drink, so the awards show is comparably entertaining. Then again, it's an awards show, and there's definitely a cap on how fun those things can be. Also? It's fucking January; you can't say a thing is the "thing of the year" eleven months before that year ends. That's just cocky.

But it's 2017—new year, new me—and I promised to be more positive. So let's celebrate the fun part of the Golden Globes and highlight all the very fancy celebrities who were very drunk.

Denzel Washington

Image via Giphy

My guy may not have been drunk on the red carpet, but this is very much a "jfc I wish I slammed Henny in the limo" face.

Jenna Bush Hager

"you're nominated for Hidden Fences" pic.twitter.com/7My6dtEkbG — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) January 9, 2017

It's Hidden FIGURES, George W. Bush's daughter. This was almost as embarrassing as the time your pops choked on a pretzel.

Michael Keaton

Because again, IT IS HIDDEN FIGURES. People shouldn't be this confused because two movies that star black people and share a consonant.

Billy Bob Thornton

Image via Giphy

When they announced Billy's nomination, the camera cut to my guy and he was very thirstily whispering in a woman's ear. Then he actually won, and his acceptance speech was even more bizarre. You knew Billy was on one after you saw those sunglasses, though.

Lakeith Stanfield

Image via Giphy

Seems like a safe assumption. But I mean, can you blame him?

Goldie Hawn

Image via Giphy

Goldie Hawn and Amy Schumer may have been doing a bit when they presented the award for best actor in a comedy. But if not, holy shit, Goldie was the drunkest. She was Old Hollywood drunk—like, "if I crash a car into a children's hospital some shady fixer will make it disappear" drunk.

Mel Gibson

Image via Giphy

I remember the first time I tried to rest my hand on my chin. (Also, this hand-fumbling happened smack dab in the middle of Meryl Streep's speech about how bullying disabled people is bad. Look at Mel like, "What is this novel concept!?")

Hugh Laurie

After Meryl Streep repeated his Trump joke (about how "Hollywood Foreign Press" are Republicans' three least favorite words) and got a way bigger laugh, House MD was ready to turn up.

"I am very excited and on my way to being pleasantly intoxicated." -- Hugh Laurie just now on E! — Jen Chaney (@chaneyj) January 9, 2017

No word yet on how intoxicated House got, but I know that if I watched myself get Dane Cook'ed at the Golden Globes, all bets would be off.

Cuba Gooding Jr.

This is without a doubt THE CRAZIEST N-word I know @cubagoodingjr A photo posted by Marlon Wayans (@marlonwayans) on Jan 8, 2017 at 11:08pm PST

Pictured above: Cuba Gooding Jr., also known as that guy who once tried to eat another man's cell phone.