Fitbit Is Planning An App Store (And Probably A New Smartwatch Too)
Fitbit Is Planning An App Store (And Probably A New Smartwatch Too)
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Parmy Olson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Six fitness tracking devices measuring step counts and other fitness features are worn Wednesday July 20, 2016, in New York. Clockwise, from top left are the: Garmin Vivoactive, Fitbit Blaze, Garmin Vivoactive HR, Samsung Gear Fit2, Apple Watch and Fitbit Surge. (AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews) If it wasn’t obvious enough with Fitbit buying Pebble, it’s even more clear now. Fitbit is likely planning to build a smartwatch that marries its comfortable, digital wristbands, with Pebble’s software expertise and network of app developers. CEO James Park dropped his biggest hint yet at CES, when he told reporters that Fitbit wanted to launch its own app store “as soon as possible.” Given how tightlipped Park has been in the past in interviews with us and others, his openness about an app store means Fitbit is probably already either in the process of building it, or just about to start, and Park is confident enough about its reality to talk publicly about it. Fitbit would  have to launch a new smartwatch in tandem, since such a store wouldn’t operate on the company's latest models, the Fitbit Blaze or Fitbit Charge HR. Both these devices are more like souped up fitness trackers than broadly-functional smartwatches comparable to the Apple Watch, Samsung Gear 3 or Android Wear devices. Fitbit’s software has always been limited in scope: its bands track steps and heart rate, offer breathing exercises and can show texts and calls on a screen, but you can’t look at maps or browse the Web on them in any fashion. Fitbit doesn’t have “any software infrastructure on our devices to run those apps,” Park was quoted as saying at CES. Pebble was once lauded for being a pioneer of smartwatches, but sold itself to Fitbit last year after sales slumped and the startup struggled financially. Still, over its five-year life span Pebble manage to establish an app store that amassed an impressive 14,000 apps, including recognizable names like Runkeeper and TripAdvisor, as well as mapping and health-tracking apps. As part of the acquisition, Fitbit offered to hire around 40% of Pebble’s staff, primarily taking on Pebble’s software engineers, and leaving behind its user-interface designers and hardware engineers. Park told The Verge that Fitbit was building its new app store using some of the assets the company had acquired from Pebble. But the new store probably won’t be as geared towards consumers as Pebble’s was. That’s because Fitbit has built up a thriving corporate wellness business, in which it sells its devices in bulk to employers who use them to track and incentivise staff in an effort to lower health care costs. Park pointed out there were many different apps that Fitbit’s corporate wellness partners wanted to write, related to fitness and medication tracking, so the apps and the app store itself will probably be designed to accommodate those players too.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If it wasn’t obvious enough with Fitbit buying Pebble, it’s even more clear now. Fitbit is likely planning to build a smartwatch that marries its comfortable, digital wristbands, with Pebble’s software expertise and network of app developers.

CEO James Park dropped his biggest hint yet at CES, when he told reporters that Fitbit wanted to launch its own app store “as soon as possible.” Given how tightlipped Park has been in the past in interviews with us and others, his openness about an app store means Fitbit is probably already either in the process of building it, or just about to start, and Park is confident enough about its reality to talk publicly about it.

Fitbit would have to launch a new smartwatch in tandem, since such a store wouldn’t operate on the company's latest models, the Fitbit Blaze or Fitbit Charge HR. Both these devices are more like souped up fitness trackers than broadly-functional smartwatches comparable to the Apple Watch, Samsung Gear 3 or Android Wear devices.

Fitbit’s software has always been limited in scope: its bands track steps and heart rate, offer breathing exercises and can show texts and calls on a screen, but you can’t look at maps or browse the Web on them in any fashion.

Fitbit doesn’t have “any software infrastructure on our devices to run those apps,” Park was quoted as saying at CES.

Pebble was once lauded for being a pioneer of smartwatches, but sold itself to Fitbit last year after sales slumped and the startup struggled financially. Still, over its five-year life span Pebble did manage to establish an app store that amassed an impressive 14,000 apps, including recognizable names like Runkeeper and TripAdvisor, as well as mapping and health-tracking apps.

As part of the acquisition, Fitbit offered to hire around 40% of Pebble’s staff, primarily taking on Pebble’s software engineers, and leaving behind its user-interface designers and hardware engineers.

Park told The Verge that Fitbit was building its new app store using some of the assets the company had acquired from Pebble.

But the new store probably won’t be as geared towards consumers as Pebble’s was. That’s because Fitbit has built up a thriving corporate wellness business, in which it sells its devices in bulk to employers who use them to track and incentivise staff in an effort to lower health care costs.

Park pointed out there were many different apps that Fitbit’s corporate wellness partners wanted to write, related to fitness and medication tracking, so the apps and the app store itself will probably be designed to accommodate those players too.