'You can’t get spoiled if you do your own ironing': Meryl Streep's wisest, wittiest quotes
'You can’t get spoiled if you do your own ironing': Meryl Streep's wisest, wittiest quotes
eventy-nine films, 19 Oscar nominations, three Academy Awards, countless others. Meryl Streep is arguably one of the world's most accomplished screen actresses, but, with more than four decades in the industry, she has increasingly become a sagacious voice on acting, feminism, politics, life and being a woman in showbusiness. Donald Trump may think she's "over-rated", but Streep has proved to be one of the most grounded, and insightful, people in Hollywood – despite her success. Here's a sample of her wisdom: On doing what you believe in "Integrate what you believe into every single area of your life. Take your heart to work, and ask the most and best of everybody else too. Don’t let your special character and values, the secret that you know and no one else does, the truth – don’t let that get swallowed up by the great chewing complacency." – During the commencement speech she gave at her alma mater, Vassar College, in 1983 On Hollywood's treatment of older women “I resisted playing a witch for a long time because I was offered three witches when I turned 40 in one year. I thought, ‘Oh, this is how it’s going to go’” – During a round table while promoting Into The Woods “At 48 you were getting out the shovel ready to go in... I'm out there on behalf of all the old broads and I'm proud to be there.” – To the Radio Times, 2009 On raising a family in the public eye “Robert Redford taught me that when they were babies. ‘They are not your props.’ I really admired the way he protected his family. It's something I consciously emulated.” – To Good Housekeeping magazine “We really made an attempt to move them out of the public eye. I never had them photographed as children and was adamant that they not be seen as my adorable props and keep them out, and as a result they all want to be in showbusiness. I thought, ‘We’ll live near an ecological centre and they’ll all want to become environmental scientists.’” – While doing publicity for Ricki and the Flash On being female “Women are better at acting than men. Why? Because we have to be, if successfully convincing someone bigger than you are, of something he doesn’t want to know, is a survival skill, this is how women have survived, through the millennia.” – During her commencement speech at Barnard University, 2010 “What does it take to be the first female anything? It takes grit and it takes grace” – Speaking on behalf of Hillary Clinton at the Democratic National Convention “I wasted so many years thinking I wasn't pretty enough and why didn't I have Jessica Lange's body or someone else's legs? What a waste of time.” – To the Radio Times, 2009 “I would like Martin Scorsese to be interested in a female character once in a while, but I don't know if I’ll live that long” – To The Talks, 2011 On wearing a nun's habit “It sort of makes you part of a club of women. So it felt great to wear it. In fact, it felt weird to put my regular clothes on at night.” – In an interview with Parade magazine . On keeping grounded “I doubt myself every day” – On the red carpet “I try to lead as ordinary a life as I can. You can’t get spoiled if you do your own ironing.” On industry recognition “Awards have very little bearing on my own personal happiness. No matter what you see me saying when I’m on your TV holding a statuette spewing, that’s acting.” – During her commencement speech at Barnard University, 2010 “Oh shut up, it’s not that long” – During her 2007 Golden Globes speech “When they called my name I had this feeling I could hear half of America going, ‘Oh no … her again.’ But, whatever.” “This is such a great honour but the thing that counts the most with me is the friendships and the love and the sheer joy we have shared making movies together.” – While accepting the Academy Award for Best Actress in 2012 On the important things in life “My mentor was my mother. She walked into a room and lit it up, and people were sad when she left. That, to me, is what really matters: who you touch and how.” – In conversation with Michelle Obama for People magazine “You don’t have to be famous. You just have to make your mother and father proud of you, and you already have.” – During her commencement speech at Barnard University, 2010 “For young men, and women, too, what makes you different or weird, that's your strength... I used to hate my nose. Now I don't. It's OK.” – During the commencement speech she gave at her alma mater, Vassar College, in 1983

Seventy-nine films, 19 Oscar nominations, three Academy Awards, countless others. Meryl Streep is arguably one of the world's most accomplished screen actresses, but, with more than four decades in the industry, she has increasingly become a sagacious voice on acting, feminism, politics, life and being a woman in showbusiness.

Donald Trump may think she's "over-rated", but Streep has proved to be one of the most grounded, and insightful, people in Hollywood – despite her success. Here's a sample of her wisdom:

On doing what you believe in

"Integrate what you believe into every single area of your life. Take your heart to work, and ask the most and best of everybody else too. Don’t let your special character and values, the secret that you know and no one else does, the truth – don’t let that get swallowed up by the great chewing complacency."

– During the commencement speech she gave at her alma mater, Vassar College, in 1983

On Hollywood's treatment of older women