Behind GM's Sudden Change Of Heart On Rental Cars
Behind GM's Sudden Change Of Heart On Rental Cars
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Joann Muller       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. GM pushed 10,000 Chevy Malibu sedans into rental fleets in December to cope with bloated inventories. (GM photo) Throughout most of 2016, General Motors disavowed fleet sales to daily rental car companies as a money-losing business that only hurt its brands in the long run. Instead, GM focused on the more profitable retail market -- sales to individuals like you and me -- and touted its strategy as proof of its post-bankruptcy financial discipline. Success followed: GM picked up half a point of retail market share in 2016 (though its overall shared dropped 0.3 points), while fetching significantly higher transaction prices. Through the first three quarters of 2016, profit in North America hit a record $9.4 billion. Despite widespread fears that auto sales had peaked, GM officials remained consistently optimistic about future growth, riding the launch of redesigned models like the Chevrolet Malibu, Cruze and Camaro. Then in November, and especially December, GM abruptly reversed course, dumping twice as many cars as normal into rental lots, and announcing plans to temporarily shut five U.S. assembly plants in January to reduce bloated inventory. The industry slowdown that analysts and other automakers had been warning about all year, it seemed, had finally caught up with GM. The carmaker put a positive spin on its year-end sales results, which were up 10 percent overall. “We finished 2016 with a strong December, reflecting the continued strength of GM’s U.S. retail and commercial businesses,” said Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president of U.S. Sales Operations, mentioning a side of its business it hadn't highlighted much lately. “We begin 2017 well positioned to continue growing our U.S. retail business, driven by all-new products like the Chevrolet Equinox and Traverse being launched into key, growing U.S. market segments.” But the timing of production cuts and new figures Malibu sales jumped 87 percent in December, but virtually all of those added cars - about 10,000 - went to rental fleets. That's not a good sign for a car that was completely redesigned barely a year ago. While sales to rental car companies are not inherently bad, automakers are often on the hook to buy them back after a period of time. Either way, those cars eventually wind up on used car lots. By reducing sales to rental fleets, GM hoped to avoid flooding the market with future used cars, which would drive down prices, hurt profits and undermine efforts to strengthen its brands. What impact the late strategy shift will have on fourth quarter financial results won't be known until later in January but GM will provide analysts with a business update and outlook for 2017 at a DeutscheBank conference Tuesday in Detroit. One question executives will likely face is whether they waited too long to react to the changing market conditions. Ford, for instance, forecast the slowdown much earlier in the year, and cut production to meet demand, while GM did not. It all came to a head at the end of November. GM ended the month with more than 873,000 cars, trucks and crossovers in its inventory — 26 percent higher than a year ago -- the most unsold cars since the industry collapsed during the 2008 recession. That's the equivalent of 86 days' supply; most analysts say 60-70 days' supply is ideal.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Throughout most of 2016, General Motors disavowed fleet sales to daily rental car companies as a money-losing business that only hurt its brands in the long run. Instead, GM focused on the more profitable retail market -- sales to individuals like you and me -- and touted its strategy as proof of its post-bankruptcy financial discipline.

Success followed: GM picked up half a point of retail market share in 2016 (though its overall shared dropped 0.3 points), while fetching significantly higher transaction prices. Through the first three quarters of 2016, profit in North America hit a record $9.4 billion. Despite widespread fears that auto sales had peaked, GM officials remained consistently optimistic about future growth, riding the launch of redesigned models like the Chevrolet Malibu, Cruze and Camaro.

Then in November, and especially December, GM abruptly reversed course, dumping twice as many cars as normal into rental lots, and announcing plans to temporarily shut five U.S. assembly plants in January to reduce bloated inventory.

The industry slowdown that analysts and other automakers had been warning about all year, it seemed, had finally caught up with GM.

The carmaker put a positive spin on its year-end sales results, which were up 10 percent overall. “We finished 2016 with a strong December, reflecting the continued strength of GM’s U.S. retail and commercial businesses,” said Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president of U.S. Sales Operations, mentioning a side of its business it hadn't highlighted much lately. “We begin 2017 well positioned to continue growing our U.S. retail business, driven by all-new products like the Chevrolet Equinox and Traverse being launched into key, growing U.S. market segments.”

But the timing of production cuts and new figures from The Bobit Report, which tracks commercial, government and rental sales trends, tell a different story. GM sold 42,716 cars to rental companies in December, more than twice the 21,035 sold in December 2015, when it had already cut back on the rental business. By comparison, in December 2014, before the new strategy, GM sold 24,306 rental cars.

Malibu sales jumped 87 percent in December, but virtually all of those added cars - about 10,000 - went to rental fleets. That's not a good sign for a car that was completely redesigned barely a year ago.

While sales to rental car companies are not inherently bad, automakers are often on the hook to buy them back after a period of time. Either way, those cars eventually wind up on used car lots. By reducing sales to rental fleets, GM hoped to avoid flooding the market with future used cars, which would drive down prices, hurt profits and undermine efforts to strengthen its brands.

What impact the late strategy shift will have on fourth quarter financial results won't be known until later in January but GM will provide analysts with a business update and outlook for 2017 at a DeutscheBank conference Tuesday in Detroit.

One question executives will likely face is whether they waited too long to react to the changing market conditions. Ford, for instance, forecast the slowdown much earlier in the year, and cut production to meet demand, while GM did not.

It all came to a head at the end of November. GM ended the month with more than 873,000 cars, trucks and crossovers in its inventory — 26 percent higher than a year ago -- the most unsold cars since the industry collapsed during the 2008 recession. That's the equivalent of 86 days' supply; most analysts say 60-70 days' supply is ideal.