Top Russian diplomat is found dead in his apartment in Athens
Russian consul in Athens found dead; no signs of foul play


A senior Russian diplomat has been found dead in his Athens apartment.

Andrey Malanin, who was head of the consular section, was found on the floor of his bedroom by a member of the embassy's staff on Monday, after he failed to report for work.

A Greek police official confirmed the death of the 54-year-old and said homicide officers had now been drafted in to help with the investigation due to Mr Malanin's diplomatic status.

Scroll down for video

Police investigators enter the house of the Russian consul Andrei Malanin in Athens

Police said a coroner will examine the body, while homicide officers will also investigate the death.

This comes after Russia's ambassador to Turkey, Andrey Karlov, was assassinated by a rogue police officer while speaking at a photo exhibition in Ankara last month.

Malanin is understood to have lived alone in a Russian embassy-owned building on a heavily-guarded street where the official residence of the Greek prime minister and president also reside.

According to police, there was no evidence of a break-in at the scene of Mr Malanin's apartment in the Greek capital.

'At first sight, we are talking about natural causes,' a police official added.

Officers said there are no immediate indications of foul play and the body had no visible injuries.

A hearse leaves a residence block where Russian consul Andrey Malanin was found dead

The horrific scene as Mevlut Mert Altintas gunned down Russian ambassador Andrey Karlov in Ankara

Ambassador Andrey Karlov was gunned down in Ankara by 22-year-old police recruit Mevlut Mert Altintas who shouted 'Allahu Akbar' and 'Don't forget Aleppo' as he murdered the respected diplomat before he was shot dead.

The killer had shaved and dressed in a suit and tie before walking 150 metres to the art centre where he used his police ID to enter the premises on December 19.

A metal detector alarm went off because of his firearm, but he was waved through because of his assumed police status.