Florida shooting: US Army veteran Esteban Santiago fronts court



Florida shooting: US Army veteran Esteban Santiago fronts court

Posted

The Iraq War veteran charged over the fatal shooting of five people inside a Florida airport will be defended by a public lawyer after he told the court he had no job and less than $10 in the bank.

Key points: Judge tells Esteban Santiago he is facing the death penalty

FBI reveals gunman's only luggage was a semi-automatic pistol and ammunition

Agents say he loaded it in the baggage claim bathroom before opening fire on fellow passengers

Another six people were injured after the gunman opened fire in a crowded baggage claim area at Fort Lauderdale's international airport on Friday.

At a brief hearing in a heavily-guarded federal courtroom, Esteban Santiago told the judge he understood the charges against him.

They include committing violence against people at an international airport resulting in death, and two firearms offences.

The 26-year-old war veteran had a history of acting erratically and investigators are probing whether mental illness played a role in the shooting.

Officers seized the weapon and police arranged for a mental health evaluation and on December 8, the gun was returned to Santiago.

Authorities have not detailed whether the same gun was used in the airport attack.

Shackled in a red jumpsuit, Santiago answered mostly yes or no to questions from Judge Alicia Valle who told him the death penalty could apply.

"We are telling you the maximum penalty allowed by law so that you understand the seriousness of the charges," Judge Valle said.

According to an FBI affidavit, he checked in a single piece of luggage, a gunbox for his Walther 9mm semi-automatic pistol and two magazines of ammunition.

Agents said he retrieved the box in baggage claim and loaded his weapon in a bathroom, before opening fire on fellow passengers, killing five and wounding six others.

Santiago told the court he had been in the Army, where he made about $US15,000 ($20,000) a year and his expenses included $US560 in monthly rent, plus phone and other utility bills.

He said he owned no property and did not have a vehicle.

He said he worked for a security company in Anchorage, Alaska, until November where he made $2,100 a month, but currently he had only $5 to $10 in the bank.

Given Santiago's finances, the judge decided he would eligible for government lawyers at taxpayer expense.

She ordered him to be held until his next hearings — a detention hearing on January 17, followed by an arraignment for entering a plea on January 23.

More than a dozen officers kept watch outside the courthouse, carrying rifles and wearing bulletproof vests, along with mounted police and K-9 units.

Santiago has been in custody since the shooting which followed his one-way flight from Anchorage to Fort Lauderdale.

AP

Topics: murder-and-manslaughter, crime, law-crime-and-justice, united-states