Giants Allegedly Trashed Team Plane on Flight Back From Green Bay
Giants Allegedly Trashed Team Plane on Flight Back From Green Bay
On their flight back home following their Wild Card Game loss to the Green Bay Packers , the New York Giants allegedly trashed their team plane, causing a massive delay for the passengers scheduled to use the aircraft next. According to the , United Airlines Flight 934 out of Green Bay landed in Newark at 2:17 a.m., and was expected to depart for Heathrow Airport in London at 8:30 a.m., but the plane didn't take off until As the London-bound passengers waited for answers, one passenger named Mark Kropf claims that they were informed that the Giants were to blame for the lengthy delay. The @Giants wrecked the first class cabin of #United  #UA934 causing a 2 hour delay to repair and clean. #thanks  pic.twitter.com/aLcr0mHHNz “ ." The delay was a nightmare for most passengers, but for one person, it was actually a gift. Thanks @Giants for trashing this plane so badly it was delayed for 2hrs in a "clean up operation" which meant I didn't miss my connection! 😂 pic.twitter.com/7mvSPIoz9r A spokesperson for the Giants has already shot down these rumors, calling them "false." A #Giants spokesman says the story saying the team flight back from Green Bay was trashed last night is "false." Considering how Odell Beckham Jr.  handled Sunday's loss, it's not far-fetched to believe that many members of the team are taking the defeat exceptionally hard. sportstips@complex.com

On their flight back home following their Wild Card Game loss to the Green Bay Packers, the New York Giants allegedly trashed their team plane, causing a massive delay for the passengers scheduled to use the aircraft next. According to the New York Post, United Airlines Flight 934 out of Green Bay landed in Newark at 2:17 a.m., and was expected to depart for Heathrow Airport in London at 8:30 a.m., but the plane didn't take off until 11:47 a.m.

As the London-bound passengers waited for answers, one passenger named Mark Kropf claims that they were informed that the Giants were to blame for the lengthy delay.

The @Giants wrecked the first class cabin of #United #UA934 causing a 2 hour delay to repair and clean. #thanks pic.twitter.com/aLcr0mHHNz — Mark Kropf (@MarkKropf) January 9, 2017

“Upon entering the business class cabin, the cleaning scent only partially masked the alcohol smell," Kropf said, per the Post. "I had popcorn, chewing tobacco and other food crumbs on my seat." The delay was a nightmare for most passengers, but for one person, it was actually a gift.

Thanks @Giants for trashing this plane so badly it was delayed for 2hrs in a "clean up operation" which meant I didn't miss my connection! 😂 pic.twitter.com/7mvSPIoz9r — Sian Welby (@Sianwelby) January 9, 2017

A spokesperson for the Giants has already shot down these rumors, calling them "false."

A #Giants spokesman says the story saying the team flight back from Green Bay was trashed last night is "false." — James Kratch (@JamesKratch) January 9, 2017

Considering how Odell Beckham Jr. handled Sunday's loss, it's not far-fetched to believe that many members of the team are taking the defeat exceptionally hard.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.