Derrick Rose Disappeared Before a Knicks Game and No One Knew Where He Was (UPDATED)
Derrick Rose Disappeared Before a Knicks Game and No One Knew Where He Was (UPDATED)
Derrick Rose was spotted walking around inside of the Knicks practice facility with GM Steve Mills on Tuesday morning, according to ESPN's Ian Begley. Just saw Derrick Rose at the Knicks facility with Knicks GM Steve Mills. Seemed like he was in good spirits. For what it's worth, Derrick Rose was in Knicks gear at the practice facility. Seemed like he was going to take the court. https://t.co/pOxUuOwvZq And as Begley suggested, Rose did appear to take part in practice. The Knicks PR team tweeted out this photo: Practice pic.twitter.com/IAtoGBc2jR The Knicks PR team also announced that Rose will be back on the floor for the Knicks during their game against the 76ers on Wednesday. He has been fined an undisclosed amount of money for missing Monday's game: Derrick Rose has rejoined the team and has been fined. He is expected to be in uniform tomorrow in Philadelphia. Where in the world is Derrick Rose ? That's the question running through the minds of every New York Knicks fan since a few minutes before tip-off against the New Orleans Pelicans at Madison Square Garden when the organization announced that Rose was "not with the team." Brandon Jennings is starting tonight versus @PelicansNBA - Derrick Rose is not with the team. Stefan Bondy of the  says that Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek claimed that everyone on the team was available 90 minutes before tip-off, except for Mindaugas Kuzminskas, who is dealing with an illness. However, ESPN's Ian Begley is reporting that Rose was not seen warming up with the team before tip-off, and when one team official attempted to reach out to the 28-year-old point guard, they were unable to get in touch with him. According to Adrian Wojnarowski of , D-Rose's whereabouts remain unclear to his teammates and close associates. Woj also believes that there could still be a legitimate reason behind his mysterious absence. It is very possible Rose could have a legitimate reason for missing game --- family-related or otherwise -- but that's yet to be determined. While Rose's absence isn't a direct result of their play, the Knicks were dreadful in their 110-96 loss to the Pelicans. Knicks summary: Derrick Rose: M.I.A. Carmelo Anthony: ejected Kyle O'Quinn: ejected Deficit: 24 points After the game, Hornacek said of Rose's whereabouts, "We don't have enough information to give you anything." Here's Jeff  on the Derrick Rose situation: pic.twitter.com/ The good news is that it does sound like Rose is okay. He apparently spoke with Joakim Noah after the game and told him that he's fine. Joakim Noah tells reporters that he spoke to Derrick Rose after the game. Says "He's OK." Does not elaborate further. But there's still a lot of mystery surrounding Rose's sudden disappearance at this time, and he may be back in his hometown of Chicago right now. There are strong indications that Derrick Rose returned to his hometown of Chicago. And according to sources who spoke with ESPN, he may be dealing with a family emergency. Re Derrick Rose: Sources tell ESPN he left w/out permission but has subsequently been in touch with team officials. According to sources Rose told the team he had a family situation. Stay tuned for more information. sportstips@complex.com .

UPDATED 1/10/17, 12:10 p.m. ET:

Derrick Rose was spotted walking around inside of the Knicks practice facility with GM Steve Mills on Tuesday morning, according to ESPN's Ian Begley.

Just saw Derrick Rose at the Knicks facility with Knicks GM Steve Mills. Seemed like he was in good spirits. — Ian Begley (@IanBegley) January 10, 2017 For what it's worth, Derrick Rose was in Knicks gear at the practice facility. Seemed like he was going to take the court. https://t.co/pOxUuOwvZq — Ian Begley (@IanBegley) January 10, 2017

And as Begley suggested, Rose did appear to take part in practice. The Knicks PR team tweeted out this photo:

The Knicks PR team also announced that Rose will be back on the floor for the Knicks during their game against the 76ers on Wednesday. He has been fined an undisclosed amount of money for missing Monday's game:

Derrick Rose has rejoined the team and has been fined. He is expected to be in uniform tomorrow in Philadelphia. — NY_KnicksPR (@NY_KnicksPR) January 10, 2017

See original story below.

Where in the world is Derrick Rose? That's the question running through the minds of every New York Knicks fan since a few minutes before tip-off against the New Orleans Pelicans at Madison Square Garden when the organization announced that Rose was "not with the team."

Brandon Jennings is starting tonight versus @PelicansNBA - Derrick Rose is not with the team. — NY_KnicksPR (@NY_KnicksPR) January 10, 2017

Stefan Bondy of the New York Daily News says that Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek claimed that everyone on the team was available 90 minutes before tip-off, except for Mindaugas Kuzminskas, who is dealing with an illness. However, ESPN's Ian Begley is reporting that Rose was not seen warming up with the team before tip-off, and when one team official attempted to reach out to the 28-year-old point guard, they were unable to get in touch with him. According to Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical, D-Rose's whereabouts remain unclear to his teammates and close associates. Woj also believes that there could still be a legitimate reason behind his mysterious absence.

It is very possible Rose could have a legitimate reason for missing game --- family-related or otherwise -- but that's yet to be determined. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@WojVerticalNBA) January 10, 2017

While Rose's absence isn't a direct result of their play, the Knicks were dreadful in their 110-96 loss to the Pelicans.

Knicks summary:

Derrick Rose: M.I.A.

Carmelo Anthony: ejected

Kyle O'Quinn: ejected

Deficit: 24 points — Howard Beck (@HowardBeck) January 10, 2017

After the game, Hornacek said of Rose's whereabouts, "We don't have enough information to give you anything."

Here's Jeff Hornacek postgame on the Derrick Rose situation: pic.twitter.com/aOXGHTbepg — Tommy Beer ( @TommyBeer ) January 10, 2017

The good news is that it does sound like Rose is okay. He apparently spoke with Joakim Noah after the game and told him that he's fine.

Joakim Noah tells reporters that he spoke to Derrick Rose after the game. Says "He's OK." Does not elaborate further. — Chris Mannix (@ChrisMannixYS) January 10, 2017

But there's still a lot of mystery surrounding Rose's sudden disappearance at this time, and he may be back in his hometown of Chicago right now.

There are strong indications that Derrick Rose returned to his hometown of Chicago. — Frank Isola (@FisolaNYDN) January 10, 2017

And according to sources who spoke with ESPN, he may be dealing with a family emergency.

Re Derrick Rose: Sources tell ESPN he left w/out permission but has subsequently been in touch with team officials. — Ramona Shelburne (@ramonashelburne) January 10, 2017 According to sources Rose told the team he had a family situation. — Ramona Shelburne (@ramonashelburne) January 10, 2017

Stay tuned for more information.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.