Ms Dhu's death in custody case focus of new song by The Cat Empire's Felix Riebl



Ms Dhu's death in custody case focus of new song by The Cat Empire's Felix Riebl

Updated

Relatives of a young Aboriginal woman whose death in custody sparked protests around the country hope a new song by a member of The Cat Empire will put attention back on her case.

Ms Dhu was just 22 years old when she was locked up for unpaid fines in the Port Hedland police station in August 2014.

She died three days later of septicaemia and pneumonia from an infection in a broken rib.

The Cat Empire's Felix Riebl was working in the Pilbara with an Indigenous girls choir when he heard about the case.

"I wanted to write a very, very political song because I thought these girls that I was working with were not much younger than Ms Dhu was," he said.

"And if they were in a situation like her, it could happen to them and I thought we had to write a song about it."

He said he was appalled with how she was treated.

"She wasn't treated like a person. She wasn't heard, she wasn't seen, she was let down at every step of the way," Riebl said.

"Anyone who reads that story will see a person who's not treated at all like they should be and a system that doesn't see young Aboriginal people in the same way that it sees other people and that's a horror."

The song details Ms Dhu's time in the lock-up, where she complained of pain within hours of arriving.

Over the following two days, she was twice taken to the Hedland Health Campus and twice declared fit to be held in custody.

The third time she was taken to hospital, police told the triage nurse she was faking it.

Less than an hour later, she was dead.

The WA Coroner last month described her treatment as "unprofessional and inhumane".

No-one has been charged over her death.

Family welcomes release of song

Ms Dhu's uncle Shaun Harris said he was still fighting for a conviction.

"She would still be here today if her cries of pain and begs for help were not heard on institutionally deaf ears," he said.

"And they are still depriving her of her liberty after death, by the simple fact that there was no accountability still."

Mr Harris said her family welcomed the release of the song.

"This song is like a little bit of icing on a little bit of cake for us at the moment now that inquest is finished, and we have the footage out there," he said.

"It is sort of good timing time for us family to actually being able to enjoy something for once.

"I hope this song will go viral. A lot of people are gonna fall in love with it. It will go viral to some extent."

Riebl said he hoped his song would renew the focus on the broader issue of Indigenous deaths in custody.

"I don't pretend like my song's going to solve something," he said.

"I'm lucky to be a musician, because I've got a way to express heartbreak and disappointment and joy and celebration as well.

"And so, that's all I can do, I think, and try and be part of a society that can hopefully improve this longer term."

Ms Dhu's family hopes her death will be a catalyst for change, like the deaths in custody that sparked a royal commission, which handed down its findings the very year she was born.

The song finishes with the lyrics: "And we wish that it wasn't true, but it is, so the next question is what are we going to do?"

Riebl said it was time Australians committed to making sure what happened to Ms Dhu would not be repeated.

"It's just something that reflects so, so poorly on our society as a whole," he said.

"If we're failing like that then we're failing in a very essential way and so it's something that I think is just about the most important thing that we need to look at ourselves and change in our society."

Topics: death, black-deaths-in-custody, arts-and-entertainment, music, south-hedland-6722, perth-6000

First posted