From hope to fear: the contrasting speeches of Barack Obama and Donald Trump
From hope to fear: the contrasting speeches of  Barack Obama and Donald Trump
ew, even opponents, would dispute that Barack Obama is a fine orator while Donald Trump makes no claim to be a modern Cicero , arguing he should be judged by his deeds rather than words. The outgoing president's carefully honed speeches are finely crafted, while a study of Mr Trump 's syntax found it was akin to a third grader - a child of of eight or nine. But as the campaign proved, the Trump style was pretty effective in getting the message across. t is not just the standard of oratory which is markedly different, but the two men have struck a very different tone in their speeches. Mr Obama's message has often been one of hope, voicing a belief that America should raise its sights to be a beacon for the rest of the world, setting the pace in tackling climate change and promoting democratic values. On the campaign trail Mr Trump's message was that America was broken and only he could fix it by making the country "great again". His speech on accepting the Republican nomination at the Cleveland convention in July was pretty pessimistic about the state of the nation and the world. "The problems we face now, poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad, will last only as long as we continue to rely on the same politicians who created them in the first place," he said. “Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation.The attacks on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country.” In many ways his approach echoed that of other Republicans running for the Oval Office, playing on the fears of the electorate. Richard Nixon sought the support of the "silent majority" as he promised to restore order to the country in 1968. eorge H W Bush also exploited Americans' fear of crime especially with his Willie Horton advert, capitalising on the case of a murderer who claimed another victim while on weekend leave from a Massachusetts prison. However Mr Trump went further, much further. He accused Mexico of sending its criminals to the United States and rounded on Muslims following the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California. He appealed to voters who were afraid and angry. Unlike other Republicans, he saw that black voters had good reason to be disenchanted. “Look how much African-American communities are suffering under Democratic control. To those I say the following: What do you have to lose by trying something new, like Trump?” he said during the campaign. “You’re living in poverty. Your schools are no good. You have no jobs. Fifty-eight percent of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose?” his is in stark contrast to the optimism and hope of Mr Obama, who tried to persuade voters that he wanted to rise above the name-calling which was commonplace in political campaigns. His victory speech in 2012 was pretty typical, lauding the ambitions of "the child in North Carolina who wants to become a doctor, scientist, engineer or an entrepreneur, a diplomat, or even a president." ime will tell whether Mr Obama did deliver "change we can believe in" or whether the hope and optimism of his speeches was misplaced. At the same time, Mr Trump has four years to deliver on his promise to make America great again. His task now is not only to fulfill the pledge but convince voters that he has done so. That is likely to see President Trump being far more optimistic and hopeful than candidate Trump.

It is not just the standard of oratory which is markedly different, but the two men have struck a very different tone in their speeches.

Mr Obama's message has often been one of hope, voicing a belief that America should raise its sights to be a beacon for the rest of the world, setting the pace in tackling climate change and promoting democratic values.

On the campaign trail Mr Trump's message was that America was broken and only he could fix it by making the country "great again".

His speech on accepting the Republican nomination at the Cleveland convention in July was pretty pessimistic about the state of the nation and the world.

"The problems we face now, poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad, will last only as long as we continue to rely on the same politicians who created them in the first place," he said.

“Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation.The attacks on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country.”

In many ways his approach echoed that of other Republicans running for the Oval Office, playing on the fears of the electorate. Richard Nixon sought the support of the "silent majority" as he promised to restore order to the country in 1968.