'Star Wars,' 'Justice League' And The Biggest Blockbusters Of 2017
'Star Wars,' 'Justice League' And The Biggest Blockbusters Of 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Scott Mendelson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. 'Justice League' image courtesy of Warner Bros. As I have done for the past two years, I will begin 2017 with a rundown of the year’s most likely “biggest” blockbusters. The would-be twist is that I will merely be declaring what I think will be the biggest hit of each particular month, although this year there is a certain "share the wealth" in terms of probable blockbusters in nearly every month. Yet the irony of our current “all blockbusters, all the time” scheduling is that there is more than one month, including January of all places, where it’s something of a coin toss in terms of which will be the biggest movie of the month. Oh, and for the record, when I mean “the month of January,” I mean new movies that are coming out that month, not December platformers going wide. So, sorry and ! And without further ado, let’s dive in… (Jan. 20, 2017) (Jan. 27, 2017) Right off the bat, we have a coin toss, if not an outright three-way contest! Look, unless really craps the bed in three weeks, it’s probably going to do better than the over/under $50 million average for the previous five movies and the over/under $58m average for the three "not a prequel" films. So if this were just a domestic contest, I’d give the edge to Vin Diesel’s “There better be a scene where Toni Collette fights Donnie Yen and Tony Jaa and wins!” action spectacular and call it a day. Yet the last two movies both made way over $200 million worldwide, with (the first in 3D) earning $296m global in 2010. It is possible that this will get a -ish finale bump while will play closer to than the early movies. is arguably playing to audiences who haven’t necessarily seen the previous movies. is the sixth entry in a continuity-rich 15-year-old franchise. As for , which has already made $42 million overseas, said franchise does fine in the U.S. (the Beckinsale-led installments average $74m in inflation-adjusted grosses) but haven’t yet gone nuts abroad. Sure, could take a sharp dive from the last two offerings, and could crash and burn while becomes the first one in the series to earn $200m+ worldwide. But that’s a somewhat unlikely proposition. Yet it’s kind of exciting that we have a two to three horse race this early in the year. (Febr. 10, 2017) (Feb. 10, 2017) And we have yet another coin toss since they are sequels to popular February hits that had diametrically opposing patterns. earned $166 million domestic (from a $94m Fri-Mon debut) but a whopping $571m worldwide on a $40m budget. made a superb $257m domestic (from a $69m debut) but “just” $469m worldwide of a $60m budget. You see the dilemma, here? has the excitement but , even with a BDSM-free marketing campaign, has fan loyalty. Universal/Comcast Corp.’s probably isn’t going to make as much domestically or worldwide as the first one, but it “starts” higher. Warner Bros./Time Warner Inc.’s will probably make a little less than domestic but could upswing overseas. They could both easily top out at $350 million worldwide, or they both could go the $500m+ distance. No, I don’t think is a factor as it’s barely a hit in China ($120m and mostly finished) let alone anywhere else. Walt Disney’s (March 17, 2017) Even in an oddly crowded month, this is an easy call. made $966 million worldwide last year, and that’s . is a cultural icon of an animated property, and casting Emma Watson as the title character is a canny “play into two somewhat overlapping fandoms” trick. The trailer plays like gangbusters with the kind of demos that flock to the Disney parks, everyone I know is at least somewhat curious. It’s going to be an absolute monster, and I wouldn’t be shocked if it’s the biggest pre-summer release of the year. (April 8, 2017) Or maybe the biggest pre-summer release will be Universal’s eighth adventure. It’s probably not going to make as much as ’s $350 million domestic/$1.5 billion worldwide sprint. But even a moderate come down from that is still over/under $1b worldwide. Moreover, there is nothing else remotely on this scale opening in April. The whole “Dom breaks bad and the heroes team up with evil Jason Statham” hook should be enough to keep the franchise alive, with Charlize Theron’s villain providing extra incentive. So yeah, this will be yet another April dominated by movies. (May 5, 2017) The easy pick for the summer’s biggest grossing movie, this Marvel sequel has two advantages. First, every MCU offering with Iron Man since has topped $400 million domestic and $1.1 billion worldwide. Second, is the kind of “anticipated sequel to a much-liked/buzzy/leggy original” that often just goes crazy right out of the gate. The only caveat is that not a single MCU movie that didn’t feature Tony Stark has ever grossed over the $773m that made in August of 2014. Still, unless it’s offensively terrible, I can’t see it not being one of the biggest movies of the year. (June 30, 2017) This is my easy pick for the second-biggest grosser of the summer in North America. The last four summer Illumination offerings have all made over $250 million, and the last three made over $330m alongside some brutal competition. The only question is whether or not (June 23) can do that thing where it makes over/under $250m domestic yet still shoots to $1 billion+ worldwide. It’s a coin toss, especially if turns out to be a “good” movie. There is no guarantee that will make as much as and . But I’d still bet on Illumination for the moment. Oh, and I’d love to see (June 2) go nuts, but let’s be honest. If it’s good, especially if it’s good, numbers would be a big win for that stand-alone prequel. (July 8, 2017) Sony’s made $709 million in the summer of 2014 while 20 Century Fox’s made $710m worldwide. If doesn’t play like a revelation for general audiences (for whom it will be the second “new” movie in five years) and continues the franchise’s upswing, it might be close. Still, Tony Stark is featured pretty prominently in the marketing. While I’m not expecting $1 billion+ for this spin-off, I also know that betting against an MCU Spidey movie (with Iron Man) is something of a fool’s errand. (Aug. 11, 2017) This is subject to change should something big (like ) slot itself in the early August weekend that vacated. The New Line/Warner Bros. “sequel to the prequel” horror movie is thus far the only “big” movie in August, so it may be “the last biggie of the summer.” The first prequel earned $84 million domestic and $256m worldwide from a $5m budget. While this one may take a dip (although made a tad more worldwide than the first one), I don’t think anyone out there is expecting or to make a play for $250m+ worldwide. Stephen King’s (Sept. 8, 2017) This is arguably a “by default” winner, as it’s the only “big” movie opening thus far in September (I suppose could surprise). Yet a feature-length movie of one of Stephen King’s most popular books may well turn into a cross-generational event, appealing to fans of the book and/or the author as well as folks from the generation that was terrified by the 1990 ABC mini-series. It’s one of a handful of arguable “event” horror films this year, which is encouraging. There is a large demographic that wants to be excited for this one. All they need is a killer first teaser trailer to get them in the mood. (Oct. 6, 2017) is opening on the same day. But I’m going with the sequel to the recent breakout sleeper smash as opposed to the sequel to 35-year-old flop. Like a few sequels this year ( , , etc.), this may break out due to relative good will towards Fox’s surprisingly huge ($414 million worldwide on an $81m budget) “R-rated Roger Moore 007 homage” action comedy. The new cast alone (Julianne Moore, Halle Berry, Pedro Pascal, Jeff Bridges, Channing Tatum) makes this a kind of event sequel. I’m not sure why Fox moved it out of mid-June. But now it gets to be the event movie of October. (Nov. 17, 2017) I guess could build on ’s $646 million gross while a middling doesn’t get past ’s $873m cume. But considering how big the DC Films thus far have been despite not being very good, a decent , especially if it follows a decent , can go the distance.  Warner Bros. knows that this Zack Snyder movie has to work or there will be no dawn… of justice. If it’s bad, it’ll make a bunch anyway due to the whole “Super Friends on the big screen together” thing. If it’s good, the sky is the limit as it’ll have clear sailing until . Speaking of which… (Dec. 15, 2017) Yeah, this article is running long anyway, so I’m just going to say “Yes, of course.” and wrap this one up. Is there anyone out there who thinks this won’t be the biggest movie of December and/or the year? That’s why I thought, let’s move on. And that’s a wrap for this annual tradition!  Ask me in December how I did as I went 10/12 last year thanks to under-performing in July and originally planting itself on Christmas Day instead of its eventual Sept. 30 slot.  I went 9/12 in 2015 . I certainly hope I was wrong on at least a couple of those predictions, like maybe soaring way above its relative competition or being a critically-acclaimed super-smash. Because what fun is this game without a few surprises every year? And speaking of , I’m not responsible for any date changes that affect the “rankings,” so if moves to September (it will not), that’s not my fault!    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As I have done for the past two years, I will begin 2017 with a rundown of the year’s most likely “biggest” blockbusters. The would-be twist is that I will merely be declaring what I think will be the biggest hit of each particular month, although this year there is a certain "share the wealth" in terms of probable blockbusters in nearly every month. Yet the irony of our current “all blockbusters, all the time” scheduling is that there is more than one month, including January of all places, where it’s something of a coin toss in terms of which will be the biggest movie of the month. Oh, and for the record, when I mean “the month of January,” I mean new movies that are coming out that month, not December platformers going wide. So, sorry Silence and The Founder! And without further ado, let’s dive in…

January

xXx: Return of Xander Cage (Jan. 20, 2017)

Resident Evil: The Final Chapter (Jan. 27, 2017)

Right off the bat, we have a coin toss, if not an outright three-way contest! Look, unless xXx really craps the bed in three weeks, it’s probably going to do better than the over/under $50 million average for the previous five Resident Evil movies and the over/under $58m average for the three "not a prequel" Underworld films. So if this were just a domestic contest, I’d give the edge to Vin Diesel’s “There better be a scene where Toni Collette fights Donnie Yen and Tony Jaa and wins!” action spectacular and call it a day.

Yet the last two Resident Evil movies both made way over $200 million worldwide, with Resident Evil: Afterlife (the first in 3D) earning $296m global in 2010. It is possible that this will get a Deathly Hallows part 2-ish finale bump while xXx will play closer to The Last Witch Hunter than the early Fast and Furious movies. xXx is arguably playing to audiences who haven’t necessarily seen the previous xXx movies. Resident Evil: The Final Chapter is the sixth entry in a continuity-rich 15-year-old franchise.

As for Underworld: Blood Wars, which has already made $42 million overseas, said franchise does fine in the U.S. (the Beckinsale-led installments average $74m in inflation-adjusted grosses) but haven’t yet gone nuts abroad. Sure, Resident Evil could take a sharp dive from the last two offerings, and xXx could crash and burn while Underworld 5 becomes the first one in the series to earn $200m+ worldwide. But that’s a somewhat unlikely proposition. Yet it’s kind of exciting that we have a two to three horse race this early in the year.

February

Fifty Shades Darker (Febr. 10, 2017)

The LEGO Batman Movie (Feb. 10, 2017)

And we have yet another coin toss since they are sequels to popular February hits that had diametrically opposing patterns. Fifty Shades of Grey earned $166 million domestic (from a $94m Fri-Mon debut) but a whopping $571m worldwide on a $40m budget. The LEGO Movie made a superb $257m domestic (from a $69m debut) but “just” $469m worldwide of a $60m budget. You see the dilemma, here? LEGO Batman has the excitement but Fifty Shades, even with a BDSM-free marketing campaign, has fan loyalty.

Universal/Comcast Corp.’s Fifty Shades Darker probably isn’t going to make as much domestically or worldwide as the first one, but it “starts” higher. Warner Bros./Time Warner Inc.’s The LEGO Batman Movie will probably make a little less than The LEGO Movie domestic but could upswing overseas. They could both easily top out at $350 million worldwide, or they both could go the $500m+ distance. No, I don’t think The Great Wall is a factor as it’s barely a hit in China ($120m and mostly finished) let alone anywhere else.

March

Walt Disney’s Beauty and the Beast (March 17, 2017)

Even in an oddly crowded month, this is an easy call. The Jungle Book made $966 million worldwide last year, and that’s The Jungle Book. Beauty and the Beast is a cultural icon of an animated property, and casting Emma Watson as the title character is a canny “play into two somewhat overlapping fandoms” trick. The trailer plays like gangbusters with the kind of demos that flock to the Disney parks, everyone I know is at least somewhat curious. It’s going to be an absolute monster, and I wouldn’t be shocked if it’s the biggest pre-summer release of the year.

April

Fate of the Furious (April 8, 2017)

Or maybe the biggest pre-summer release will be Universal’s eighth Fast and the Furious adventure. It’s probably not going to make as much as Furious 7’s $350 million domestic/$1.5 billion worldwide sprint. But even a moderate come down from that is still over/under $1b worldwide. Moreover, there is nothing else remotely on this scale opening in April. The whole “Dom breaks bad and the heroes team up with evil Jason Statham” hook should be enough to keep the franchise alive, with Charlize Theron’s villain providing extra incentive. So yeah, this will be yet another April dominated by Fast and Furious movies.

May

Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy volume 2 (May 5, 2017)

The easy pick for the summer’s biggest grossing movie, this Marvel sequel has two advantages. First, every MCU offering with Iron Man since The Avengers has topped $400 million domestic and $1.1 billion worldwide. Second, Guardians of the Galaxy volume 2 is the kind of “anticipated sequel to a much-liked/buzzy/leggy original” that often just goes crazy right out of the gate. The only caveat is that not a single MCU movie that didn’t feature Tony Stark has ever grossed over the $773m that Guardians 1 made in August of 2014. Still, unless it’s offensively terrible, I can’t see it not being one of the biggest movies of the year.

June

Despicable Me 3 (June 30, 2017)

This is my easy pick for the second-biggest grosser of the summer in North America. The last four summer Illumination offerings have all made over $250 million, and the last three made over $330m alongside some brutal competition. The only question is whether or not Transformers: The Last Knight (June 23) can do that thing where it makes over/under $250m domestic yet still shoots to $1 billion+ worldwide. It’s a coin toss, especially if The Last Knight turns out to be a “good” movie. There is no guarantee that Despicable Me 3 will make as much as DP2 and Minions. But I’d still bet on Illumination for the moment.

Oh, and I’d love to see Wonder Woman (June 2) go nuts, but let’s be honest. If it’s good, especially if it’s good, Man of Steel numbers would be a big win for that stand-alone prequel.

July

Spider-Man: Homecoming (July 8, 2017)

Sony’s The Amazing Spider-Man 2 made $709 million in the summer of 2014 while 20th Century Fox’s Dawn of the Planet of the Apes made $710m worldwide. If Spider-Man: Homecoming doesn’t play like a revelation for general audiences (for whom it will be the second “new” Spider-Man movie in five years) and War for the Planet of the Apes continues the franchise’s upswing, it might be close. Still, Tony Stark is featured pretty prominently in the Spider-Man: Homecoming marketing. While I’m not expecting $1 billion+ for this Spidey spin-off, I also know that betting against an MCU Spidey movie (with Iron Man) is something of a fool’s errand.

August

Annabelle 2 (Aug. 11, 2017)

This is subject to change should something big (like Valerian) slot itself in the early August weekend that Alien: Covenant vacated. The New Line/Warner Bros. “sequel to the prequel” horror movie is thus far the only “big” movie in August, so it may be “the last biggie of the summer.” The first Conjuring prequel earned $84 million domestic and $256m worldwide from a $5m budget. While this one may take a dip (although The Conjuring 2 made a tad more worldwide than the first one), I don’t think anyone out there is expecting Emoji: The Movie or The Hitman’s Bodyguard to make a play for $250m+ worldwide.

September

Stephen King’s It (Sept. 8, 2017)

This is arguably a “by default” winner, as it’s the only “big” movie opening thus far in September (I suppose Ninjago could surprise). Yet a feature-length movie of one of Stephen King’s most popular books may well turn into a cross-generational event, appealing to fans of the book and/or the author as well as folks from the generation that was terrified by the 1990 ABC mini-series. It’s one of a handful of arguable “event” horror films this year, which is encouraging. There is a large demographic that wants to be excited for this one. All they need is a killer first teaser trailer to get them in the mood.

October

Kingsman: The Golden Circle (Oct. 6, 2017)

Blade Runner 2049 is opening on the same day. But I’m going with the sequel to the recent breakout sleeper smash as opposed to the sequel to 35-year-old flop. Like a few sequels this year (Guardians 2, John Wick Chapter 2, etc.), this may break out due to relative good will towards Fox’s surprisingly huge ($414 million worldwide on an $81m budget) “R-rated Roger Moore 007 homage” action comedy. The new cast alone (Julianne Moore, Halle Berry, Pedro Pascal, Jeff Bridges, Channing Tatum) makes this a kind of event sequel. I’m not sure why Fox moved it out of mid-June. But now it gets to be the event movie of October.

November

Justice League (Nov. 17, 2017)

I guess Thor: Ragnarok could build on The Dark World’s $646 million gross while a middling Justice League doesn’t get past Batman v Superman’s $873m cume. But considering how big the DC Films thus far have been despite not being very good, a decent Justice League, especially if it follows a decent Wonder Woman, can go the distance. Warner Bros. knows that this Zack Snyder movie has to work or there will be no dawn… of justice. If it’s bad, it’ll make a bunch anyway due to the whole “Super Friends on the big screen together” thing. If it’s good, the sky is the limit as it’ll have clear sailing until Star Wars Episode VIII.

Speaking of which…

December

Star Wars: Can We Please Get a Title Before April 13th? (Dec. 15, 2017)

Yeah, this article is running long anyway, so I’m just going to say “Yes, of course.” and wrap this one up. Is there anyone out there who thinks this won’t be the biggest movie of December and/or the year? That’s why I thought, let’s move on.

And that’s a wrap for this annual tradition! Ask me in December how I did as I went 10/12 last year thanks to Star Trek Beyond under-performing in July and Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children originally planting itself on Christmas Day instead of its eventual Sept. 30 slot. I went 9/12 in 2015. I certainly hope I was wrong on at least a couple of those predictions, like maybe Resident Evil: The Final Chapter soaring way above its relative competition or Wonder Woman being a critically-acclaimed super-smash. Because what fun is this game without a few surprises every year? And speaking of Miss Peregrine, I’m not responsible for any date changes that affect the “rankings,” so if Thor moves to September (it will not), that’s not my fault!

If you like what you're reading, follow @ScottMendelson on Twitter, and "like" The Ticket Booth on Facebook. Also, check out my archives for older work HERE.