Slain Officer Was Mom Who 'Deeply Cared' for Orlando
Slain Officer Was Mom Who 'Deeply Cared' for Orlando
Shares               For Master Sgt. Debra Clayton, Orlando was not only the community she helped protect every day for 17 years, it was her hometown. And throughout her career, she not only served as an officer in the community she "deeply cared" about, but as a volunteer who loved to help children as well as a mentor, police said. Monday morning Clayton, a wife and mother, was gunned down while in uniform and on duty, allegedly by a suspect in the murder of a pregnant woman. Orlando Police Chief John Mina said he had known Clayton, who has a college-age son, for her entire career there and called her a "hero" who "gave her life protecting the community that she loves." "There's no one more passionate about the community she serves," Mina said. The chief said that Clayton was "involved in many community engagement efforts and was always the first to step up and volunteer and help kids." "She was in our mentoring programs where she personally traveled and mentored young kids in high school from this area and went to trips to Washington, D.C ., and all over the country," he said. "She was trying to do her part to make this community safer," Mina added. "She's going to be forever missed." Clayton had been with the Orlando Police Department since 1999 and was promoted to Master Sergeant last year, the police said. She "deeply cared" about the community, the police said. Her record was full of accolades and praise for her commitment to the Orlando Police Department, where she was well-known for her thoroughness and professionalism, according to department documents. She and another officer were lauded in a 2005 letter to the Orlando police chief after they arrested someone for alleged weapons and drug possession. "I am sure that usually, you only hear from people about the bad things that happen with your officers," Mark Simpson, who worked for the Orlando Housing Authority at Ivey Lane Homes, wrote in the letter to the chief. "I am happy to say that I have been extremely happy with all the officers that I have come in contact with. "Their actions got a bad guy and his drugs off the street," Simpson wrote. "My thanks to you, and your officers for continuing to do an often thankless job and for caring the way they do about their work. You have a lot to be proud of." Clayton was also recognized for her work on a number of “highly successful” community service projects as a part of the Special Enforcement Section, including an Easter egg hunt, a Halloween party, job fair and a law enforcement torch run for the Special Olympics. In the Summer of 2000, Clayton and the SES team coordinated the “Kicks for Guns” event, which allowed Orlando residents to trade in their guns for a pair of new sneakers. The department recovered some 100 guns through that effort. Clayton is the first Orlando police officer to die in the line of duty in nearly a decade, the Orlando Police Department said. The last time an Orlando police officer was killed in the line of duty was Oct. 4, 2007, when Officer Al Gordon was gunned down in a robbery, not too far from where he lived, police said.   Clayton was alone at around 7 a.m. today when she tried to stop the suspect, Markeith Loyd, 41, from fleeing near a Walmart , police said. She was shot multiple times, police said, and later died. Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer expressed his condolences for Clayton and declared today an official day of mourning in the city. “[S]he will be missed as a mother, wife, daughter and sister. I share my condolences and prayers with her family and I know the entire City and this community will support the family in any way that we can,” Dyer said. “To the men and women of OPD, I and the entire City Council, stand with you and are here to support you during this difficult time.” Shares                  Slain Officer Was Mom Who 'Deeply Cared' for Orlando   Appeals Court to Decide on Challenge to Trump's Immigration Executive Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC, With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Manhunt On Near Florida-Alabama Border for Duo Wanted for 3 Murders   Romania Protests Endure as President Says Country in Crisis   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   Israeli Allies Condemn Settlement Law as Lawsuits Loom   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Tom Brady Says Wife Gisele Bundchen Wants Him to Retire   Texas Rangers to Help Search for Tom Brady's Stolen Super Bowl Jersey, Lt. Gov. Says   Eastern Airlines Mystery Continues: 'We Were Close'   Bachelor Nick Viall: I Was 'More Aware' of Drama Than Some Women Realized   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Glitz, Gowns and Politics at This Year's Oscars   How Lady Gaga Got in Shape for Her Super Bowl Halftime Performance   At a Cool $250M, LA Mega-Mansion Is Priciest Listing in US

For Master Sgt. Debra Clayton, Orlando was not only the community she helped protect every day for 17 years, it was her hometown.

And throughout her career, she not only served as an officer in the community she "deeply cared" about, but as a volunteer who loved to help children as well as a mentor, police said.

Monday morning Clayton, a wife and mother, was gunned down while in uniform and on duty, allegedly by a suspect in the murder of a pregnant woman.

Orlando Police Chief John Mina said he had known Clayton, who has a college-age son, for her entire career there and called her a "hero" who "gave her life protecting the community that she loves."

"There's no one more passionate about the community she serves," Mina said.

The chief said that Clayton was "involved in many community engagement efforts and was always the first to step up and volunteer and help kids."

"She was in our mentoring programs where she personally traveled and mentored young kids in high school from this area and went to trips to Washington, D.C., and all over the country," he said.

"She was trying to do her part to make this community safer," Mina added. "She's going to be forever missed."

Clayton had been with the Orlando Police Department since 1999 and was promoted to Master Sergeant last year, the police said. She "deeply cared" about the community, the police said.

Her record was full of accolades and praise for her commitment to the Orlando Police Department, where she was well-known for her thoroughness and professionalism, according to department documents.

She and another officer were lauded in a 2005 letter to the Orlando police chief after they arrested someone for alleged weapons and drug possession.

"I am sure that usually, you only hear from people about the bad things that happen with your officers," Mark Simpson, who worked for the Orlando Housing Authority at Ivey Lane Homes, wrote in the letter to the chief. "I am happy to say that I have been extremely happy with all the officers that I have come in contact with.

"Their actions got a bad guy and his drugs off the street," Simpson wrote. "My thanks to you, and your officers for continuing to do an often thankless job and for caring the way they do about their work. You have a lot to be proud of."

Clayton was also recognized for her work on a number of “highly successful” community service projects as a part of the Special Enforcement Section, including an Easter egg hunt, a Halloween party, job fair and a law enforcement torch run for the Special Olympics.

In the Summer of 2000, Clayton and the SES team coordinated the “Kicks for Guns” event, which allowed Orlando residents to trade in their guns for a pair of new sneakers. The department recovered some 100 guns through that effort.

Clayton is the first Orlando police officer to die in the line of duty in nearly a decade, the Orlando Police Department said. The last time an Orlando police officer was killed in the line of duty was Oct. 4, 2007, when Officer Al Gordon was gunned down in a robbery, not too far from where he lived, police said.

Clayton was alone at around 7 a.m. today when she tried to stop the suspect, Markeith Loyd, 41, from fleeing near a Walmart, police said. She was shot multiple times, police said, and later died.

Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer expressed his condolences for Clayton and declared today an official day of mourning in the city.

“[S]he will be missed as a mother, wife, daughter and sister. I share my condolences and prayers with her family and I know the entire City and this community will support the family in any way that we can,” Dyer said. “To the men and women of OPD, I and the entire City Council, stand with you and are here to support you during this difficult time.”