Jared Kushner to serve as 'senior adviser' in Donald Trump's White House
Jared Kushner to serve as 'senior adviser' in Donald Trump's White House
onald Trump ’s son-in-law Jared Kushner is to work as his “senior adviser,” it has been confirmed – ending months of speculation about his role and raising significant questions about both conflict of interest and nepotism. “It is an honour to serve our country,” said Mr Kushner, in a statement released by the Trump team. “I am energised by the shared passion of the president-elect and the American people and I am humbled by the opportunity to join this very talented team.” Mr Kushner, scion of a wealthy property developing family, is married to Mr Trump’s daughter Ivanka. On Tuesday he celebrates his 36th birthday. During the election campaign he rose to become one of Mr Trump’s closest confidantes and one of the most influential members of his team: Chris Christie was reportedly ousted at Mr Kushner’s bidding, and Reince Priebus ushered in as chief of staff on Mr Kushner’s nod. he New Jersey-born businessman has also sat in on meetings with figures such as Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe and tech leaders such as Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and Tim Cook of Apple. On Sunday he is believed to have met Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, at Trump Tower. The New York Times reported that all foreign leaders’ offices were instructed to direct their inquiries to Mr Kushner, rather than approach Mr Trump’s team. Mr Trump had speculated that Mr Kushner, from an influential Jewish family, could get involved in Middle East peace talks. “Jared has been a tremendous asset and trusted adviser throughout the campaign and transition and I am proud to have him in a key leadership role in my administration,” said Mr Trump on Monday evening. “He has been incredibly successful, in both business and now politics. He will be an invaluable member of my team as I set and execute an ambitious agenda, putting the American people first.” But his role has raised eyebrows. The 1967 nepotism law – brought in to prevent a repeat of JFK’s appointment of his brother Robert as attorney general – states: "A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official." Mr Kushner has hired lawyers to investigate whether his taking a job in the administration would break the law. The lawyers appear to have found a way to circumvent it, possibly by arguing that Mr Kushner will not be working for an “agency” which Mr Trump heads. Leading Washington law firm WilmerHale have advised him on how to comply with federal ethics laws: the firm has concluded that the anti-nepotism law is not applicable - although not all ethics experts agree. His appointment will also cause concern owing to his sprawling business interest – much like Mr Trump’s. Over the weekend The New York Times published a lengthy, front-page story detailing Mr Kushner’s property interests across the country, and reporting how he had met with Chinese investors he was courting even after Mr Trump was elected . Mr Kushner’s spokesman stated that he will step aside from his business dealings, as required by law. Unlike his father-in-law, he is prohibited from decisions with a “direct and predictable effect” on his financial interests. Last week it was reported that Mr Kushner and his wife had agreed a deal on a house in Washington , just two streets from where the Obama family will live once they leave the White House.

The New Jersey-born businessman has also sat in on meetings with figures such as Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe and tech leaders such as Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and Tim Cook of Apple. On Sunday he is believed to have met Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, at Trump Tower.

The New York Times reported that all foreign leaders’ offices were instructed to direct their inquiries to Mr Kushner, rather than approach Mr Trump’s team.

Mr Trump had speculated that Mr Kushner, from an influential Jewish family, could get involved in Middle East peace talks.

“Jared has been a tremendous asset and trusted adviser throughout the campaign and transition and I am proud to have him in a key leadership role in my administration,” said Mr Trump on Monday evening. “He has been incredibly successful, in both business and now politics. He will be an invaluable member of my team as I set and execute an ambitious agenda, putting the American people first.”

But his role has raised eyebrows.

The 1967 nepotism law – brought in to prevent a repeat of JFK’s appointment of his brother Robert as attorney general – states: "A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official."

Mr Kushner has hired lawyers to investigate whether his taking a job in the administration would break the law. The lawyers appear to have found a way to circumvent it, possibly by arguing that Mr Kushner will not be working for an “agency” which Mr Trump heads.

Leading Washington law firm WilmerHale have advised him on how to comply with federal ethics laws: the firm has concluded that the anti-nepotism law is not applicable - although not all ethics experts agree.

His appointment will also cause concern owing to his sprawling business interest – much like Mr Trump’s.

Over the weekend The New York Times published a lengthy, front-page story detailing Mr Kushner’s property interests across the country, and reporting how he had met with Chinese investors he was courting even after Mr Trump was elected.

Mr Kushner’s spokesman stated that he will step aside from his business dealings, as required by law. Unlike his father-in-law, he is prohibited from decisions with a “direct and predictable effect” on his financial interests.

Last week it was reported that Mr Kushner and his wife had agreed a deal on a house in Washington, just two streets from where the Obama family will live once they leave the White House.