Body found on M1 in Northamptonshire, closing northbound motorway

Motorists travelling to the north of England faced serious difficulties after police closed a section of the M1 while they investigated the circumstances behind the discovery of a body on the motorway. Northamptonshire police said on Tuesday morning the northbound carriageway was closed from junctions 16 to 17, close to Watford Gap services, after the body was found just before 3am. They were treating the incident as a road traffic accident. “Motorists are advised to seek alternative routes and diversions will be in place,” police said in a statement. A spokeswoman said an update would be made once officers had been able to assess the situation in daylight. Officers attended the scene after a call from a motorist just before 3am, the spokeswoman said. The road was likely to be closed for some time, she added. Sergeant Tony Hopkins told BBC Northampton the body is believed to be male. He told the station it had been “travelled over by several vehicles” and investigations were continuing. A spokesperson for Highways England said: “Our understanding is that the closure is expected to remain in place for most of today.” Anyone with information should contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111. Topics  Road transport   Northampton

Motorists travelling to the north of England faced serious difficulties after police closed a section of the M1 while they investigated the circumstances behind the discovery of a body on the motorway.

Northamptonshire police said on Tuesday morning the northbound carriageway was closed from junctions 16 to 17, close to Watford Gap services, after the body was found just before 3am. They were treating the incident as a road traffic accident.

“Motorists are advised to seek alternative routes and diversions will be in place,” police said in a statement. A spokeswoman said an update would be made once officers had been able to assess the situation in daylight.

Officers attended the scene after a call from a motorist just before 3am, the spokeswoman said. The road was likely to be closed for some time, she added.

Sergeant Tony Hopkins told BBC Northampton the body is believed to be male. He told the station it had been “travelled over by several vehicles” and investigations were continuing.

A spokesperson for Highways England said: “Our understanding is that the closure is expected to remain in place for most of today.”

Anyone with information should contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.