The ‘Stranger Things’ Kids Have a Lot of Celebs in Their Fan Club
The ‘Stranger Things’ Kids Have a Lot of Celebs in Their Fan Club
The pint-sized stars of are definitely the cool kids in Hollywood these days. Millie Bobby Brown , Caleb McLaughlin, Gaten Matarazzo, Finn Wolfhard, and Noah Schnapp posed with countless famous faces Sunday at the Golden Globe Awards, including plenty of people who were obviously excited to meet , not the other way around. Amy Schumer , Octavia Spencer , Reese Witherspoon , and others all nabbed some time with them. That’s right — Anna Kendrick took snapshots with the teens, just so she could get everyone in the pic. But that really wasn’t anything new. Since their retro Netflix drama premiered six months ago, many of their (older) colleagues have raved about the young actors. In September, Aaron Paul got things started when he famously raved about Brown during an interview on the , after he and his wife, Lauren, became fans of the show. In fact, Paul even interviewed Brown for magazine for a regular feature on celebrities interviewing celebs they admire. “I was terrified,” Paul told Fallon. “She’s the best … but I was so terrified. She was on a family vacation [in] Spain, and I was like, ‘I’ve got to make this good.’ She gets on the phone with her cute little accent. … She’s far more articulate than I, and I was terrified.” But it went well. Really well! “My wife and I said that we’d want to adopt her,” Paul shared. “She said that we could.“ Daniel Radcliffe revealed his affection for the entire cast in September during an interview on the BBC’s . It was actually quite cute to see the one and only Harry Potter — no stranger to fandom himself — gushing about them after being told they would appear on the show the following day. “Oh my god,” Radcliffe said . “OK, can you, like, just tell them that I think they’re amazing and also just say, like, that as a person who started out acting really young, how are they so good? I wasn’t that good when I was a kid. Have the decency to be less good at acting, please, when you’re so young.” At the Emmys that same month, they stole the show and brought out even more fans. When star Sophie Turner was asked about the actresses she admired, her answer was Brown. “Oh my God, she’s amazing,” Turner, 20, told . “How is this happening? There are, like, 12-year-old kids who are 10 times better than all the adults. They’re showing us all up. It’s really embarrassing.” For the record, Brown turns 13 on Feb. 4, and some of her male co-stars are already teenagers. Matarazzo and Wolfhard are 14, while McLaughlin blew out 15 candles in October. Schnapp turned 12 the same month. But their youth has not kept them from enjoying Hollywood soirees. Pretty much every recent awards show has brought us a wave of party pics with some or all of the cast members. The gang got a snap with s Norman Reedus, better known as Daryl. Kevin Hart got in on some selfie action with McLaughlin too. Ryan Gosling pulled Brown and Schnapp close because he was so happy to meet them. His leading lady, Emma Stone , looked more excited than the young actors when they posed for this pic. Check out Stone’s big grin! All this brings us back to the Golden Globes, where the cast had a truly memorable night — even for people who work alongside Gen X icon Winona Ryder. Stay cool, kids.

Amy Schumer and her boyfriend, Ben Hanisch, made a point of getting a photo with the “Stranger Things” cast. (Photo: Instagram)

The pint-sized stars of Stranger Things are definitely the cool kids in Hollywood these days. Millie Bobby Brown, Caleb McLaughlin, Gaten Matarazzo, Finn Wolfhard, and Noah Schnapp posed with countless famous faces Sunday at the Golden Globe Awards, including plenty of people who were obviously excited to meet them, not the other way around.

Amy Schumer, Octavia Spencer, Reese Witherspoon, and others all nabbed some time with them.

View photos Finn Wolfhard and Caleb McLaughlin made fast friends with Octavia Spencer at a Globes party. (Photo: Charley Gallay/Getty Images for FIJI Water) More









That’s right — Anna Kendrick took two snapshots with the teens, just so she could get everyone in the pic.





But that really wasn’t anything new. Since their retro Netflix drama premiered six months ago, many of their (older) colleagues have raved about the young actors.

Related: Golden Globes 2017 Party Pics

In September, Aaron Paul got things started when he famously raved about Brown during an interview on the Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, after he and his wife, Lauren, became fans of the show. In fact, Paul even interviewed Brown for Elle magazine for a regular feature on celebrities interviewing celebs they admire.

“I was terrified,” Paul told Fallon. “She’s the best … but I was so terrified. She was on a family vacation [in] Spain, and I was like, ‘I’ve got to make this good.’ She gets on the phone with her cute little accent. … She’s far more articulate than I, and I was terrified.”

But it went well. Really well!

“My wife and I said that we’d want to adopt her,” Paul shared. “She said that we could.“





Daniel Radcliffe revealed his affection for the entire cast in September during an interview on the BBC’s Radio 1 Breakfast Show. It was actually quite cute to see the one and only Harry Potter — no stranger to fandom himself — gushing about them after being told they would appear on the show the following day.

“Oh my god,” Radcliffe said. “OK, can you, like, just tell them that I think they’re amazing and also just say, like, that as a person who started out acting really young, how are they so good? I wasn’t that good when I was a kid. Have the decency to be less good at acting, please, when you’re so young.”

At the Emmys that same month, they stole the show and brought out even more Stranger Things fans. When Game of Thrones star Sophie Turner was asked about the actresses she admired, her answer was Brown.

“Oh my God, she’s amazing,” Turner, 20, told Entertainment Weekly. “How is this happening? There are, like, 12-year-old kids who are 10 times better than all the adults. They’re showing us all up. It’s really embarrassing.”

For the record, Brown turns 13 on Feb. 4, and some of her male co-stars are already teenagers. Matarazzo and Wolfhard are 14, while McLaughlin blew out 15 candles in October. Schnapp turned 12 the same month. But their youth has not kept them from enjoying Hollywood soirees.

Related: Millie Bobby Brown’s First Sleepover With Maddie Ziegler Was a Nightmare

Pretty much every recent awards show has brought us a wave of party pics with some or all of the cast members.

The gang got a snap with The Walking Dead’s Norman Reedus, better known as Daryl.





Kevin Hart got in on some selfie action with McLaughlin too.





Ryan Gosling pulled Brown and Schnapp close because he was so happy to meet them.





His La La Land leading lady, Emma Stone, looked more excited than the young actors when they posed for this pic. Check out Stone’s big grin!





All this brings us back to the Golden Globes, where the Stranger Things cast had a truly memorable night — even for people who work alongside Gen X icon Winona Ryder.





Stay cool, kids.



