Emma Watson 'Beauty and the Beast' doll mocked for looking 'like Justin Bieber'
Emma Watson 'Beauty and the Beast' doll mocked for looking 'like Justin Bieber'
n unfortunately ugly doll,  made to resemble Emma Watson as Belle in Beauty and the Beast, has caused a social media sensation. Many people have mocked the toy, saying it looks like Justin Bieber. The doll which is available from American store JC Penney has been immensely popular online. This is, however, for the wrong reasons. Social media users have pointed out it looks nothing like Watson.  Emma Watson or Justin Bieber? #beautyandthebeast A photo posted by Darren Scott (@mrdarrenscott) on @CGBPosts definitely it's Bieber pic.twitter.com/IlR2clhydR when you order an emma watson doll online but a justin bieber doll in a yellow dress & a wig arrives instead pic.twitter.com/PUQUBXyufT I CANT STOP LAUGHING THIS IS SO TRAGIC pic.twitter.com/g0JZd9KUl0 A new trailer recently came out for Beauty and the Beast, in which we hear Emma Watson sing. he 30-second clip shows a lot of footage that has already been seen in previous trailers and teasers for Disney's live-action remake of the animated classic, except it is soundtracked by Emma Watson singing a reprise of Belle, the charming introductory song that explains the leading lady's ambitions to break free of her small town existence. This is the first time we've seen Watson as Belle singing, although recordings of the former Harry Potter star singing Something There were leaked after a customer found a singing Belle doll in a shop in the US .  🌹 Well there it is, straight from the shelves at Toys R' Us...😉 ・・・ @The_West_Wing_ : Get ready for this one guys... FIRST LISTEN AT EMMA SINGING "SOMETHING THERE"!!!! I am officially floored, if she wasn't perfect enough this has absolutely nailed her as #Belle! I cannot wait for this movie!!! 😍🌹 Recording taken from the singing Belle Hasbro doll! Not sure who to credit though, sorry! . #BeautyandtheBeast #Disney #EmmaWatson #Belle #BillCondon #BeOurGuest #taleasoldastime A video posted by Jack Morrissey (@therealjackmorrissey) on isney later released the recording officially on their Facebook page: eauty and the Beast will be Watson's first major musical film, and many fans are intrigued to hear the actress's vocal abilities.

An unfortunately ugly doll, made to resemble Emma Watson as Belle in Beauty and the Beast, has caused a social media sensation.

Many people have mocked the toy, saying it looks like Justin Bieber.

The doll which is available from American store JC Penney has been immensely popular online.

This is, however, for the wrong reasons.

Social media users have pointed out it looks nothing like Watson.