25 Hilarious Tweets About Sending Nudes
25 Hilarious Tweets About Sending Nudes
This photoshoot. [posing nude]
ME: make sure to capture all of my body's contours
DMV GUY: again, this is entirely inappropriate for a license photo This saucy pic. "Send nudes"
"Ok" This miracle. I just got nudes from team Snapchat This laundry disaster. I hate it when i drop my laundry. @totalfratmove This gift. *when she send you nudes and you ain't even ask for em* This comparison to one of the greats. Nudes are an art, you aren't a hoe you're a Leonarhoe Da Vinci. And this one too. nudes are art so you ain't a hoe you a vincent van ghoe This very, very accurate moment. when he sees u naked for the first time This brutal comeback. Want his attention?

Send nudes

Want to piss him off?

When he responds, 
reply "Oops, wrong person" This explicit photoshoot. "send nudes" This totally real biblical story. [In the beginning, God created the heavens and earth...]

EARTH: yo

GOD: what?

EARTH: send nudes

GOD: *creates Adam & Eve*

EARTH: nice This absolute burn. I don't know what's more embarrassing, accidentally sending nudes to your boss or getting a pay decrease as a result of your nudes. And this letdown. When you send him your highest quality nudes and all you get back is an "oh nice" This intellectual conversation. regular people: good morning baby, i love u

me (an intellectual): wake up send nudes bitch This gingerbread disaster. I hate it when my sprinkles spill..🙄 #deckthehalls This danger. When you go to compose a tweet and your nudes pop up on the bottom of the screen like sis can I get some privacy This actual horror. Kidnapper: Pay up or I'll leak your nudes

Me: So what?

K: Then I'll tweet your drafts

M: Ok don't do anything crazy we can work this out This woodwork disaster. I hate it when I drop my sandpaper This pitch. Now that it's abandoned nudes, I hope Playboy goes with its other major brand identity and becomes a magazine about a very fancy rabbit. This artistic flair. Adding the final touches to my photoshopped nudes before I send it off This wholesome request gone wrong. [texting my girlfriend]

wyd?

"Just finished my homework"

Cool, Send a pic (; ?

*gf sends a nude*

Ewww wtf!! i meant of your homework! This ultimate revenge. if someone broke up with me id stop talking to them for months and then "accidentally" send them my best nudes & then continue not talking This historically accurate advice. "Send nudes, not hate" -Gandhi This artwork. Just found my old line rider i made in school And this accident. one day I'll get the hang of this 😔😔   How Weird Are Your Opinions On Romance?    19 People Who Prove Not All Heroes Wear Capes  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.