Govt Reacts To The Viral Video, Orders Probe Into The Suffering Of The Soldier, But Is It Enough?
Govt Reacts To Viral Video, Orders Probe Into The Suffering Of The Soldier, But Is It Enough?
Govt Reacts To The Viral Video, Orders Probe Into The Suffering Of The Soldier, But Is It Enough? Union home minister, Rajnath Singh, has ordered a probe into the allegations of troops getting poor treatment and being forced to go hungry after a BSF soldier posted a series of videos on Facebook. In the four videos since Sunday BSF jawan, Tej Bahadur Yadav says how they are not being fed properly because of the corruption at the top level. He also showed the substandard food he was being given after 10 hours of duty. "We have been getting this same food for 10 days continuously. Can a BSF jawan do 10 hours of duty after eating such food?" Yadav is seen asking in one of the videos. Reacting to the video, home minister Rajnath Singh said he has asked the home secretary to immediately seek a report from the BSF and take appropriate action. I have seen a video regarding a BSF jawan's plight. I have asked the HS to immediately seek a report from the BSF & take appropriate action. The BSF however seems to discredit its own soldier, claiming that Yadav had a "difficult past" and needed regular counselling. "He was habitual offender of absenteeism without permission, chronic alcoholism, misbehaving with superior officers. For such reasons, individual has served mostly in headquarters under supervision of some dedicated superior officer," ANI quoting BSF reported. Constable Tej Bahadur as an individual has a difficult past. From initial days of his career, he needed regular counselling: BSF He was habitual offender of absenteeism without permission, chronic alcoholism, misbehaving with superior officers: BSF For such reasons, individual has served mostly in headquarters under supervision of some dedicated superior officer: BSF

Union home minister, Rajnath Singh, has ordered a probe into the allegations of troops getting poor treatment and being forced to go hungry after a BSF soldier posted a series of videos on Facebook.

In the four videos since Sunday BSF jawan, Tej Bahadur Yadav says how they are not being fed properly because of the corruption at the top level.

Tej Bahadur Yadav/ Facebook

He also showed the substandard food he was being given after 10 hours of duty. "We have been getting this same food for 10 days continuously. Can a BSF jawan do 10 hours of duty after eating such food?" Yadav is seen asking in one of the videos.

Reacting to the video, home minister Rajnath Singh said he has asked the home secretary to immediately seek a report from the BSF and take appropriate action.

I have seen a video regarding a BSF jawan's plight. I have asked the HS to immediately seek a report from the BSF & take appropriate action. — Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) January 9, 2017

The BSF however seems to discredit its own soldier, claiming that Yadav had a "difficult past" and needed regular counselling.

"He was habitual offender of absenteeism without permission, chronic alcoholism, misbehaving with superior officers. For such reasons, individual has served mostly in headquarters under supervision of some dedicated superior officer," ANI quoting BSF reported.

Constable Tej Bahadur as an individual has a difficult past. From initial days of his career, he needed regular counselling: BSF — ANI (@ANI_news) January 9, 2017

He was habitual offender of absenteeism without permission, chronic alcoholism, misbehaving with superior officers: BSF — ANI (@ANI_news) January 9, 2017

For such reasons, individual has served mostly in headquarters under supervision of some dedicated superior officer: BSF — ANI (@ANI_news) January 9, 2017

The BSF statement added a DIG rank officer has reached location to investigate the circumstances alleged in videos.

If the BSF's version of the story is correct, it makes us wonder how can a soldier who is "habitual offender of absenteeism without permission" and is a "chronic alcoholic" be posted in the border in the first place?