Pongal Celebration: Tamil Nadu Government Asks PM Narendra Modi To Revoke The Ban On Jallikattu
TN Asks Modi To Revoke The Ban On Jallikattu, The Blood-Soaked Bull-Taming Sport
Tamil Nadu Asks Modi To Revoke The Ban On Jallikattu, The Blood-Soaked Bull-Taming Sport Jallikattu is a prominent bull-taming sport held in Tamil Nadu. As part of Pongal celebrations, Jallikattu is an event that involves the controlling of bulls. It's an evil practice where bulls are tortured, hurt, and physically assaulted - all for nought. (Also read: Jallikattu - A Blood-Soaked Chapter In Indian Traditional Sports, Wasn't Always That Way ) But if the constitution protects cows, why not bulls? As a result, the SC banned the event and said cruelty against animals is prohibited by law. But the state loves its sport and is asking to revoke the ban. The Tamil Nadu government on Monday urged the Centre to consider promulgating an ordinance for "removing the legal impediments" to enable the conduct of the sport next week in the state. "Considering the groundswell of sentiment and support for the conduct of Jallikattu all over Tamil Nadu, this is an issue on which the government of India must act with maximum dispatch." said Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, in a letter to the Indian Prime Minister. "Given that Pongal festival, which holds great importance to the people of Tamil Nadu, is less than a week away and Jallikattu is an integral part of the Pongal festivities, considering the urgency of the issue, Government of India should consider promulgating an ordinance removing the legal impediments, enabling the conduct of Jallikattu during Pongal, 2017," he wrote in his letter. (Also read: SC Bans Jallikattu, Says Cruelty Against Animals Is Prohibited By Law. Go Play Computer Games! ) It's not just him - his predecessor, the late J Jayalalithaa, wanted the same. In fact, actor Kamal Haasan said that it was a tradition that needed to be held. Panneerselvam also wrote, "Suitably amend Section 11(3) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 by introducing a new clause 'f' in sub-section (3) of Section 11 specifically exempting Jallikattu in addition to other exemptions already provided in the Act," The apex court had banned the sport under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in 2014 and the upliftment has since remained a pressing issue. Public figures, politicians, and other people have stepped up in the same regard.

Jallikattu is a prominent bull-taming sport held in Tamil Nadu.

As part of Pongal celebrations, Jallikattu is an event that involves the controlling of bulls. It's an evil practice where bulls are tortured, hurt, and physically assaulted - all for nought.

(Also read: Jallikattu - A Blood-Soaked Chapter In Indian Traditional Sports, Wasn't Always That Way)

jallikattu

But if the constitution protects cows, why not bulls? As a result, the SC banned the event and said cruelty against animals is prohibited by law. But the state loves its sport and is asking to revoke the ban.

The Tamil Nadu government on Monday urged the Centre to consider promulgating an ordinance for "removing the legal impediments" to enable the conduct of the sport next week in the state. "Considering the groundswell of sentiment and support for the conduct of Jallikattu all over Tamil Nadu, this is an issue on which the government of India must act with maximum dispatch." said Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, in a letter to the Indian Prime Minister.

tehelka

"Given that Pongal festival, which holds great importance to the people of Tamil Nadu, is less than a week away and Jallikattu is an integral part of the Pongal festivities, considering the urgency of the issue, Government of India should consider promulgating an ordinance removing the legal impediments, enabling the conduct of Jallikattu during Pongal, 2017," he wrote in his letter.

(Also read: SC Bans Jallikattu, Says Cruelty Against Animals Is Prohibited By Law. Go Play Computer Games!)

It's not just him - his predecessor, the late J Jayalalithaa, wanted the same. In fact, actor Kamal Haasan said that it was a tradition that needed to be held.

“For thousands of years, it has been known as a sport where we embrace the bull. It is not to be confused with what happens in Spain,” he said while speaking at the India Today Conclave.

jallikattu

Panneerselvam also wrote, "Suitably amend Section 11(3) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 by introducing a new clause 'f' in sub-section (3) of Section 11 specifically exempting Jallikattu in addition to other exemptions already provided in the Act,"

The apex court had banned the sport under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in 2014 and the upliftment has since remained a pressing issue. Public figures, politicians, and other people have stepped up in the same regard.

The followers are now hoping that the sport will be held this year during Pongal.