Terrorist is shot dead by Turkish police after he opened fire on officers and tried to break into their precinct
Terrorist shot dead by Turkish police after he opened fire on officers


Turkish police shot dead a suspected terrorist who opened fire on officers and tried to break into their precinct.

A suspected accomplice fled the scene in the city of Gaziantep, and police were trying to catch him, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus said.

The man who shot at officers was killed when police fired back at him and a wounded police officer was taken to hospital for treatment.

A police officer, top left, appears to have shot dead the suspected terrorist, lying on the ground, as he tried to enter the police station

Crime scene investigators (left) work after a shooting attack in front of the Gaziantep Police headquarters in Gaziantep

The body of the suspected terrorist is surrounded by officers in the aftermath of the attack

Officers guard a police cordon after an attacker was killed in an attempted assault on a precinct

Turkish police stand guard while injured police are attended to after a shooting attack in front of the Gaziantep Police headquarters in Gaziantep

The state-run Anadolu Agency said bomb disposal squads were called to the scene in case the dead shooter had a bomb on him.

Local news channel NTV reported the man may have been planning a suicide bombing at the station near the Syrian border.

Several ambulances are said to have been set to the area.

Turkey is on edge following a spate of attacks that have been blamed on Kurdish militants and the Islamic State group.

Armed security officials flood from the a building in Turkey in response to coming under fire from

As the attackers attempted to break into the precinct, officers sprung into action

Meanwhile two loud explosions rocked the Afghan capital killing at least 38 people and injuring around 70.

The country's parliament was the target of the blasts, according to Sediq Sediqqi, spokesman for the Interior Ministry.

The first explosion, carried out by a suicide bomber, was quickly followed by a second, caused by car bomb parked near the same site, he said.

Sediqqi said there were casualties but that exact numbers remain unclear.

Public health ministry spokesman Ismail Kawasi only confirmed that three wounded civilians were brought to hospital.

An injured security guard said: ' The first explosion happened outside the parliament... a number of innocent workers were killed and wounded. It was caused by a suicide bomber on foot.

'The second one was a car bomb.

'It was parked on the other side of the road and flung me back when it detonated.

Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, claimed responsibility for the Kabul attacks.

A suicide bomber targeted parliament in Kabul, killing at least 23 and injuring dozens

Afghan policemen stand guard at the site of a suicide bomb attack in the capital Kabul

An Afghan troop stands guard after twin blasts in the capital Kabul

Four security officials block the road after a suicide bomber blew himself up before a car bomb was detonated

Earlier in the day, a suicide bomber on foot struck in southern Helmand province, killing at least seven people, said General Agha Noor Kemtoz, the provincial police chief.

The target of the attack was a guesthouse used by a provincial intelligence official in Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand, said Kemtoz.

Those killed include civilian and military personnel, and six others were wounded in the attack, Kemtoz added .

A car full of explosives was found nearby.