Frank Ocean Co-Signs Meryl Streep's Golden Globes Speech
Frank Ocean Co-Signs Meryl Streep's Golden Globes Speech
Frank Ocean Co-Signs Meryl Streep's Golden Globes Speech  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Meryl Streep's passionate speech at the 2017 Golden Globes on Sunday night (Jan. 9) has earned the seal of approval from singer Frank Ocean . After accepting the Cecil B. DeMille Award presented by Viola Davis at the ceremony, the prolific actress slammed president elect Donald Trump for mocking a disabled reporter. "There was nothing good about it, but it did its job," she said. "It kind of broke my heart when I saw it, and I still can't get it out my head because it wasn’t in a movie, it was in real life. That instinct to humiliate when it’s modeled by someone in a public platform, it filters down into everyone’s life because it gives permission for others to do the same."  "Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence," Streep added. Ocean took to Tumblr to applaud the six-minute speech, typing, "Say it Meryl!" Music had a big night at the Golden Globes as actor Donald Glover, also known as rapper Childish Gambino , won two awards for his FX show while the musical drama took home all seven Golden Globes for which it was nominated including best movie, actor and actress in a comedy or musical.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Meryl Streep's passionate speech at the 2017 Golden Globes on Sunday night (Jan. 9) has earned the seal of approval from singer Frank Ocean.

After accepting the Cecil B. DeMille Award presented by Viola Davis at the ceremony, the prolific actress slammed president elect Donald Trump for mocking a disabled reporter. "There was nothing good about it, but it did its job," she said. "It kind of broke my heart when I saw it, and I still can't get it out my head because it wasn’t in a movie, it was in real life. That instinct to humiliate when it’s modeled by someone in a public platform, it filters down into everyone’s life because it gives permission for others to do the same."

"Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence," Streep added.

Ocean took to Tumblr to applaud the six-minute speech, typing, "Say it Meryl!"

Music had a big night at the Golden Globes as actor Donald Glover, also known as rapper Childish Gambino, won two awards for his FX show Atlanta while the musical drama La La Land took home all seven Golden Globes for which it was nominated including best movie, actor and actress in a comedy or musical.