Here's What Happens When You Try to Block Mark Zuckerberg on Facebook
Here's What Happens When You Try to Block Mark Zuckerberg on Facebook
Facebook , at the time of this writing, is still full of the most consistently annoying people on the planet. From people mindlessly sharing surprisingly old and/or straight-up fabricated news stories to distant relatives adding you to groups like FREE IPAD GIVEAWAY, Facebook is very much the worst. Ironically, one of the worst Facebookers of all time is the dude who kinda started this whole thing, Mark Zuckerberg . But, hey, that's an easy fix right? Just block Blarf Zuckersplurge and be on your way! Not so fast : HELP HELP I'M BEING REPRESSED pic.twitter.com/scAPXwBOkq After peeping this horrifying tweet, 's William Turton decided to put this theory to the test. "I could block Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, and Zuckerberg's wife, Priscilla Chan," Turton reported Tuesday. "But not Zuck. He is invulnerable to blockage." . In the name of journalism or whatever IDK, I too tried to block Bark Fuckerberg: Well played, Zark Muffledirge. We can't avoid you, the founder and CEO of Facebook, Facebook. But how bad can this be, you ask? Well, Stark Hummingbird's most recent Facebook post included the phrase "Let's do this," meaning THIS IS ALL PRETTY BAD. For clarity, we've reached out to Zuckleberry to see what this whole You Can't Block Me Hahahaha campaign is all about: To really stick it to him, perhaps consider the findings of a recent study published in . According to  , the study found that taking a break from the Facebook grind can "considerably" improve one's mental health.

Facebook, at the time of this writing, is still full of the most consistently annoying people on the planet. From people mindlessly sharing surprisingly old and/or straight-up fabricated news stories to distant relatives adding you to groups like FREE IPAD GIVEAWAY, Facebook is still very much the worst. Ironically, one of the worst Facebookers of all time is the dude who kinda started this whole thing, Mark Zuckerberg.

But, hey, that's an easy fix right? Just block Blarf Zuckersplurge and be on your way! Not so fast:

HELP HELP I'M BEING REPRESSED pic.twitter.com/scAPXwBOkq — Johnny Xmas 🔑 (@J0hnnyXm4s) January 10, 2017

After peeping this horrifying tweet, Gizmodo's William Turton decided to put this theory to the test. "I could block Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, and Zuckerberg's wife, Priscilla Chan," Turton reported Tuesday. "But not Zuck. He is invulnerable to blockage." Hmmm. In the name of journalism or whatever IDK, I too tried to block Bark Fuckerberg:

Image via Facebook

Well played, Zark Muffledirge. We can't avoid you, the founder and CEO of Facebook, on Facebook. But how bad can this possibly be, you ask? Well, Stark Hummingbird's most recent Facebook post included the phrase "Let's do this," meaning THIS IS ALL PRETTY BAD.

For clarity, we've reached out to Zuckleberry to see what this whole You Can't Block Me Hahahaha campaign is all about:

Image via Facebook

To really stick it to him, perhaps consider the findings of a recent study published in Cyberphysiology, Behavior, and Social Networking. According to Forbes, the study found that taking a break from the Facebook grind can "considerably" improve one's mental health.