US election: Mexico again says there is 'no way' it will pay for Donald Trump's southern border wall



US election: Mexico again says there is 'no way' it will pay for Donald Trump's southern border wall

Updated

Mexico's new Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray has said there is "no way" his country will pay for the wall that US President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to build on the United States' southern border to keep out illegal immigrants.

"There's no way that could happen," Mr Videgaray said on Mexican television a few days after his appointment.

"There are no circumstances — not even the best possible trade deal, investments, support — which would justify taking a step that would violate the dignity of Mexicans to such an extent."

The wall has been a bone of contention between Mr Trump and Mexico since the businessman launched his presidential campaign in June 2015, accusing Mexico of sending rapists and drug dealers across the border into the United States.

Mr Trump said on Friday that Mexico would repay the United States for his planned border wall, a day after news emerged his transition team was exploring getting the Republican-led Congress to vote to approve the funding.

During his campaign rallies, Mr Trump repeatedly told approving crowds Mexico would pay for his planned wall to keep immigrants out.

However, in September last year, Mr Trump met with Mexican President Pena Nieto, who said he made it clear his country would not pay for the wall.

"At the beginning of the conversation with Donald Trump, I made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall," Mr Nieto said at the time via Twitter.

However last week, Mr Trump maintained to the New York Times that he would most likely seek repayment through renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which groups the United States, Mexico and Canada.

During the television interview on Tuesday, Mr Videgaray said setting up another meeting between Mr Nieto and Mr Trump once the President-elect takes office on January 20 was a priority.

ABC/ Reuters

Topics: world-politics, us-elections, immigration, mexico

First posted