First Make-In-India Artillery Gun Will Be Showcased At Republic Day Parade This Year
First Make-In-India Artillery Gun Will Be Showcased At Republic Day Parade This Year
First Make-In-India Artillery Gun Will Be Showcased At Republic Day Parade This Year India's first self-made long-range artillery gun, Dhanush, has landed in the Capital after 4 relentless years of testing at Ladakh and Rajasthan. Two Dhanush guns will be showcased during the grand Republic Day parade this January 26, India Today reported. It is a mark of pride for the howitzer gun, which was most popular as the subject of an investigation of weapons procurement. Also read: #MakeInIndia Wins Again As Desi Howitzer Shoots Faster, Better Than Swiss Bofors Gun As reported in 2015,  The desi howitzer can outgun the original Swedish Bofors 155mm artillery gun in range, accuracy, reliability, angle of fire and shoot-and-scoot capabilities. The 155mm howitzers are the first to be acquired by the Indian Army since the infamous Bofors scandal torpedoed all its artillery modernisation plans in the mid-1980s. When India bought the Bofors gun back in the 80s, the plan was to also build the gun in India. After three decades, DRDO decided to build the gun here in India and surprisingly exceeded itself. The new gun, called Dhanush, is better than the original in most respects. Upgraded from a 39 calibre to 45 calibre, the gun's range now reaches 38 km instead of 27 km of the original. The gun has cleared the Army's tests with flying colours and an initial order for 114 guns has been placed. A total of 414 guns may be ordered. Also read: These Are The Big Guns Of The Indian Army You Need To Know About Also read After Claiming #MakeInIndia Howitzer Guns Are Better, India Still Buys 145 From America

India's first self-made long-range artillery gun, Dhanush, has landed in the Capital after 4 relentless years of testing at Ladakh and Rajasthan. Two Dhanush guns will be showcased during the grand Republic Day parade this January 26, India Today reported.

agencies

It is a mark of pride for the howitzer gun, which was most popular as the subject of an investigation of weapons procurement.

Also read: #MakeInIndia Wins Again As Desi Howitzer Shoots Faster, Better Than Swiss Bofors Gun

As reported in 2015, The desi howitzer can outgun the original Swedish Bofors 155mm artillery gun in range, accuracy, reliability, angle of fire and shoot-and-scoot capabilities. The 155mm howitzers are the first to be acquired by the Indian Army since the infamous Bofors scandal torpedoed all its artillery modernisation plans in the mid-1980s.

When India bought the Bofors gun back in the 80s, the plan was to also build the gun in India. After three decades, DRDO decided to build the gun here in India and surprisingly exceeded itself. The new gun, called Dhanush, is better than the original in most respects. Upgraded from a 39 calibre to 45 calibre, the gun's range now reaches 38 km instead of 27 km of the original. The gun has cleared the Army's tests with flying colours and an initial order for 114 guns has been placed. A total of 414 guns may be ordered.

Also read: These Are The Big Guns Of The Indian Army You Need To Know About

Also read After Claiming #MakeInIndia Howitzer Guns Are Better, India Still Buys 145 From America