Warring neighbours delight internet with intense 'sign war'
Warring neighbours delight internet with intense 'sign war'
obody likes an annoying neighbour and so one US homeowner decided to hit back with these genius lawn signs. A bitter sign war between feuding neighbours in Venetia, Pennsylvania, is entertaining the internet after these hilarious photos were posted on Facebook. It all began when one of the neighbours, annoyed by ladders being left outside a property, erected a sign which asked: “Would you want these people for you neighbours?” The original sign The response was perfect mily Marchetti shared the images, explaining: “We have been watching this play out, it's all very exciting.” She added: “So there is this intense neighbour war about ladders going on up the street from my house. “One neighbour has apparently been offended about another neighbour having ladders outside and has decided to make a giant sign about it. “The ladder neighbour retaliated with their own giant Gladiator sign, and now everyone on the street is putting ladders in their yards in solidarity.” Others in the neighborhood  have left out ladders in solidarity The neighbour installed spotlights around his sign And ladder man responded by asking for locals to donate their ladders any Facebook users have defended the neighbour who left the ladder on the lawn, with one commenting: “I think they should mind their own business. Worry about your own business.” Another wrote: “Just another example of people finding the most ridiculous things to be offended about!” Jeff Williams responded: “Some people should get over themselves.” Last year, this mother left an unexpected note for thieves who broke into her car . And this woman who accidentally stole a car left this heartfelt apology note .

Nobody likes an annoying neighbour and so one US homeowner decided to hit back with these genius lawn signs.

A bitter sign war between feuding neighbours in Venetia, Pennsylvania, is entertaining the internet after these hilarious photos were posted on Facebook.

It all began when one of the neighbours, annoyed by ladders being left outside a property, erected a sign which asked: “Would you want these people for you neighbours?”

The original sign