Anonymous Bomb Threats Rattle Jewish Centers Across Eastern U.S.
Anonymous Bomb Threats Rattle Jewish Centers Across Eastern U.S.
The morning rush at the Jewish community center in Columbia, S.C., had subsided when the phone rang on Monday. The caller, an elderly-sounding woman, “in a loud screaming voice kept saying there’s a bomb,” said Barry A. Abels, the center’s executive director. At roughly the same time, a woman dialed the Jewish community center in Rockville, Md., nearly 500 miles away, and said there was a bomb. Not long after, a man called a Jewish organization in Wilmington, Del. He, too, warned of a bomb. Similar threats, which turned out to be unfounded, were reported all over the Eastern United States on Monday, at as many as 16 Jewish community facilities, one advocacy group estimated. Time and time again, the police responded, buildings were evacuated and, after tense waits, the centers and schools reopened. Federal law enforcement officials did not definitively link the threats, but the episodes rattled nerves, and raised deep concern and little doubt that the phone calls had been orchestrated. “My personal take is it’s a statement of where we are in this country,” said Michael Feinstein, the chief executive of the Bender Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, in Rockville. “There’s some thought amongst some people that hate speech and hate crimes are O.K. and anti-Semitism is O.K., and I think that is reflective of sort of the political discourse that we’ve had in this country.” Advertisement Mr. Feinstein said about 300 people had been in the Rockville center when the threat was made, including about 200 preschoolers. After the threat in Delaware, parents were called to pick up preschool and day school students. In South Carolina, Mr. Abels said staff members and patrons attending exercise classes had to leave. About three hours later, he said, the authorities said it was safe to return, leaving many to wonder what had happened. “It could be anything from hate groups to a terrorist situation,” Mr. Abels said. “I think it’s probably more on the hate group side, because it was just a scare.” He said he believed it was “designed to be psychologically disorienting and scary and just disruptive.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Jerry Silverman, the president and chief executive of the Jewish Federations of North America, said the threats were part of a disturbing trend toward normalizing hate speech. It was less than three years ago that a former Ku Klux Klan leader killed three people outside Jewish facilities in Overland Park, Kan. And in November, after the presidential election, the Anti-Defamation League posted a warning about a reported uptick in hate speech and anti-Semitism . Some members of the alt-right, a far-right fringe movement that embraces elements of anti-Semitic, racist and anti-immigrant positions, perceived the victory of President-elect Donald J. Trump as validation for their cause and have become increasingly visible in recent months. Mr. Trump, who has a Jewish daughter and son-in-law, has disavowed the alt-right . Mr. Silverman said Monday’s cases were part of a broader “coordinated effort” to intimidate Jews. He said that Jewish organizations nationwide had instituted emergency protocols, and that leaders were communicating with one another on Monday as the threats were reported. “We’ve seen this at Jewish community centers over the last year,” Mr. Silverman said. “We’ve seen it at Jewish day schools. We’ve seen it at synagogues.” “It’s all about training and preparedness,” he added. Law enforcement agencies in Nashville; Jacksonville, Fla.; and Tenafly, N.J., were among those confirming on Monday that they had responded to and cleared bomb threats at Jewish centers. An F.B.I. spokeswoman said the bureau was “aware of bomb threats” and had been in touch with the local police. “We understand there were similar threats around the country,” said Tzipora Cohen, of the Jewish Community Center in Tenafly. “I guess these are the times we live in.” Adam Goldman and Marc Santora contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2017, on Page A9 of the with the headline: Anonymous Bomb Threats Rattle U.S. Jewish Centers.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

The morning rush at the Jewish community center in Columbia, S.C., had subsided when the phone rang on Monday. The caller, an elderly-sounding woman, “in a loud screaming voice kept saying there’s a bomb,” said Barry A. Abels, the center’s executive director.

At roughly the same time, a woman dialed the Jewish community center in Rockville, Md., nearly 500 miles away, and said there was a bomb. Not long after, a man called a Jewish organization in Wilmington, Del. He, too, warned of a bomb.

Similar threats, which turned out to be unfounded, were reported all over the Eastern United States on Monday, at as many as 16 Jewish community facilities, one advocacy group estimated. Time and time again, the police responded, buildings were evacuated and, after tense waits, the centers and schools reopened.

Federal law enforcement officials did not definitively link the threats, but the episodes rattled nerves, and raised deep concern and little doubt that the phone calls had been orchestrated.

“My personal take is it’s a statement of where we are in this country,” said Michael Feinstein, the chief executive of the Bender Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, in Rockville. “There’s some thought amongst some people that hate speech and hate crimes are O.K. and anti-Semitism is O.K., and I think that is reflective of sort of the political discourse that we’ve had in this country.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Feinstein said about 300 people had been in the Rockville center when the threat was made, including about 200 preschoolers. After the threat in Delaware, parents were called to pick up preschool and day school students. In South Carolina, Mr. Abels said staff members and patrons attending exercise classes had to leave. About three hours later, he said, the authorities said it was safe to return, leaving many to wonder what had happened.

“It could be anything from hate groups to a terrorist situation,” Mr. Abels said. “I think it’s probably more on the hate group side, because it was just a scare.” He said he believed it was “designed to be psychologically disorienting and scary and just disruptive.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Jerry Silverman, the president and chief executive of the Jewish Federations of North America, said the threats were part of a disturbing trend toward normalizing hate speech. It was less than three years ago that a former Ku Klux Klan leader killed three people outside Jewish facilities in Overland Park, Kan. And in November, after the presidential election, the Anti-Defamation League posted a warning about a reported uptick in hate speech and anti-Semitism.

Some members of the alt-right, a far-right fringe movement that embraces elements of anti-Semitic, racist and anti-immigrant positions, perceived the victory of President-elect Donald J. Trump as validation for their cause and have become increasingly visible in recent months. Mr. Trump, who has a Jewish daughter and son-in-law, has disavowed the alt-right.

Mr. Silverman said Monday’s cases were part of a broader “coordinated effort” to intimidate Jews. He said that Jewish organizations nationwide had instituted emergency protocols, and that leaders were communicating with one another on Monday as the threats were reported.

“We’ve seen this at Jewish community centers over the last year,” Mr. Silverman said. “We’ve seen it at Jewish day schools. We’ve seen it at synagogues.”

“It’s all about training and preparedness,” he added.

Law enforcement agencies in Nashville; Jacksonville, Fla.; and Tenafly, N.J., were among those confirming on Monday that they had responded to and cleared bomb threats at Jewish centers. An F.B.I. spokeswoman said the bureau was “aware of bomb threats” and had been in touch with the local police.

“We understand there were similar threats around the country,” said Tzipora Cohen, of the Jewish Community Center in Tenafly. “I guess these are the times we live in.”