This optical illusion is confusing the internet – can you work it out?
This optical illusion is confusing the internet – can you work it out? 
he New Year may only be a few days old, but we already have our first optical illusion which has left many social media users scratching their heads. At first glance, the unidentified woman in the photo appears to have three legs, but take a closer look and you should see what is actually going on in the confusing image. t was shared on the @hoodxsavage Instagram account with the caption: “Had to stare at this picture for a full minute before my brain told me what was going on.” The image was then re-shared on Imgur where it has amassed more than 150,000 views in just 24 hours. “After several very confusing minutes I still don’t know what is happening here,” wrote one baffled user. “That's a pretty weird picture. Composition, lighting… it's all kind of out there,” wrote another. Another comment read: “This is so weird, first I couldn't see it, now I can't unsee it.” So what the hell is actually going on? (Spolier: She doesn't have three legs) Some users eventually figured it out, one posted: “OMG I've seen this so many times and I finally figured it out.”  Answer: She's holding a vase by her side, of course. More illusions his girl's bathroom selfie became a confusing optical illusion  Can you solve the mobile phone illusion confusing the internet?

It was shared on the @hoodxsavage Instagram account with the caption: “Had to stare at this picture for a full minute before my brain told me what was going on.”

The image was then re-shared on Imgur where it has amassed more than 150,000 views in just 24 hours.

“After several very confusing minutes I still don’t know what is happening here,” wrote one baffled user.

“That's a pretty weird picture. Composition, lighting… it's all kind of out there,” wrote another.

Another comment read: “This is so weird, first I couldn't see it, now I can't unsee it.”

So what the hell is actually going on?

(Spolier: She doesn't have three legs)

Some users eventually figured it out, one posted: “OMG I've seen this so many times and I finally figured it out.”

Scroll down for the answer

Answer: She's holding a vase by her side, of course.