Iman Remembers David Bowie on the Anniversary of His Death
Iman Remembers David Bowie on the Anniversary of His Death
Shares                Iman paid tribute to her late husband, David Bowie , on the first anniversary of his death. On Tuesday the supermodel shared a photo of a double rainbow over Manhattan with a message of love. The couple were married for nearly 24 years at the time of his death and had a daughter together. "Jan 10th, 2016 NYC Skyline #ForeverAndEver #ForeverLove #BowieForever," she wrote.         Bowie was 69 when he died last year of cancer, which he battled for more than a year. Iman, 61, said on "Good Morning America" in September that she was "holding up" in the months after his death. She also said she planned to wear a "David" necklace every day in his honor. "I’m wearing this until my death," she said.   Jan 10th, 2016 NYC Skyline #ForeverAndEver #ForeverLove #BowieForever A photo posted by IMAN (@the_real_iman) on Jan 10, 2017 at 5:46am PST    Shares                  Iman Remembers David Bowie on the Anniversary of His Death   Queen Elizabeth II Marks 65 Years on Throne   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl   How Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen Celebrated Patriots' Super Bowl Win   Patriots Star Describes Scoring 'Surreal' Super Bowl-Winning Touchdown   'Bachelor' Sneak Peek: Taylor Won't Go   Lady Gaga Opens Halftime Show With Tribute to America   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   William, Kate and Harry Face Off for Mental Health Charity   DGA Awards 2017: Complete Winners List   Super Bowl LI: A History of Super Bowl Halftime Performances   Tom Brady Named MVP in Historic Super Bowl Win   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands

Iman paid tribute to her late husband, David Bowie, on the first anniversary of his death.

On Tuesday the supermodel shared a photo of a double rainbow over Manhattan with a message of love.

The couple were married for nearly 24 years at the time of his death and had a daughter together.

"Jan 10th, 2016 NYC Skyline #ForeverAndEver #ForeverLove #BowieForever," she wrote.

Bowie was 69 when he died last year of cancer, which he battled for more than a year. Iman, 61, said on "Good Morning America" in September that she was "holding up" in the months after his death. She also said she planned to wear a "David" necklace every day in his honor.

"I’m wearing this until my death," she said.