Here's Why Drake Is Calling 'More Life' A Playlist And Not An Album
Here's Why Drake Is Calling 'More Life' A Playlist And Not An Album 
The anticipation for Drake’s is becoming too much to handle. It’s been over two months since the Toronto rapper announced the playlist during an episode of OVO Sound Radio , in which he also debuted several of its tracks, including “Two Birds, One Stone” and the 21 Savage-assisted “Sneakin.” Since then, has been delayed from Dec. 3 to the “top of 2017,” and there are only a handful of details about what fans can expect. We know what the artwork looks like; we’ve heard the rumors about a Bryson Tiller feature ; and we know Drake is referring to the project as a “playlist.” But now, one of his frequent collaborators is revealing more information about what will deliver. During an interview with , Toronto producer Nineteen85 spoke to the publication about some of his biggest Drake hits. But before reflecting on the past, he made sure to touch on Drizzy’s upcoming material. “ is interesting because this is [Drake] right on the peak of his biggest project yet [with Views], doing his biggest tour and still having so many good ideas that he just wants to put out without making it a big ordeal,” the dvsn founder explained . “That's why he's trying to call it a playlist because he has a bunch of people in a space, hanging out.... He's so aware of what everybody else is doing musically that he likes to introduce new music and new artists to the rest of the world.” It isn’t much, but at least we know it will add something different to the current music landscape. You can read Nineteen85’s full interview at . Be sure to stay tuned as more information about comes through.

The anticipation for Drake’s More Life is becoming too much to handle.

It’s been over two months since the Toronto rapper announced the album playlist during an episode of OVO Sound Radio, in which he also debuted several of its tracks, including “Two Birds, One Stone” and the 21 Savage-assisted “Sneakin.” Since then, More Life has been delayed from Dec. 3 to the “top of 2017,” and there are only a handful of details about what fans can expect. We know what the artwork looks like; we’ve heard the rumors about a Bryson Tiller feature; and we know Drake is referring to the project as a “playlist.” But now, one of his frequent collaborators is revealing more information about what More Life will deliver.

During an interview with Billboard, Toronto producer Nineteen85 spoke to the publication about some of his biggest Drake hits. But before reflecting on the past, he made sure to touch on Drizzy’s upcoming material.

“More Life is interesting because this is [Drake] right on the peak of his biggest project yet [with Views], doing his biggest tour and still having so many good ideas that he just wants to put out without making it a big ordeal,” the dvsn founder explained. “That's why he's trying to call it a playlist because he has a bunch of people in a space, hanging out.... He's so aware of what everybody else is doing musically that he likes to introduce new music and new artists to the rest of the world.”

It isn’t much, but at least we know it will add something different to the current music landscape.

You can read Nineteen85’s full interview at Billboard. Be sure to stay tuned as more information about More Life comes through.