Republicans ask if they should take Trump literally
Republicans ask if they should take Trump literally
Republicans ask if they should take Trump literally on Obamacare Updated 0236 GMT (1036 HKT) January 11, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (15 Videos) Story highlights Trump said he wants Congress to pass an Obamacare repeal bill as early as next week Republicans are worried about repealing the law without a replacement, which they don't have Donald Trump's newest demand Tuesday that Republicans vote immediately to repeal and replace Obamacare -- maybe even as quickly as next week -- had Republican lawmakers struggling to understand the President-elect's intentions.

Story highlights Trump said he wants Congress to pass an Obamacare repeal bill as early as next week

Republicans are worried about repealing the law without a replacement, which they don't have

Washington (CNN) Donald Trump's newest demand Tuesday that Republicans vote immediately to repeal and replace Obamacare -- maybe even as quickly as next week -- had Republican lawmakers struggling to understand the President-elect's intentions.

Given that lawmakers aren't anywhere near having a plan to revamp America's health care system, let alone voting on one, GOP lawmakers are wondering out loud: Should we take the President-elect literally?

"That quote was so true of Mr. Trump: 'The media took him literally but not seriously and his supporters took him seriously but not literally,'" GOP Sen. Bill Cassidy told CNN. "I think he speaks in concepts, and I accept his concept. We need a sense of urgency."

Trump's New York Times interview came as House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republicans are trying to reassure rank-and-file Republicans who are nervous about repealing the Affordable Care Act too fast when there is not yet an alternative.

And the timeline Trump is advocating for is considered impossible -- a first procedural vote aimed at repealing Obamacare is slated for some time this week, but a final "repeal" legislation -- a budget reconciliation bill -- is not expected to be voted on for weeks or months.

Read More