Cat Caught in Garage Door Saved by Deputy
Cat Caught in Garage Door Saved by Deputy 
Shares               As a sheriff's deputy who worked for decades serving Louisiana, Deputy Mike Scott likely witnessed his fair share of unusual events. But nothing prepared him for what he responded to a call for a cat stuck in a garage door. On Dec. 29, Scott -- who retired as a captain in 2011, but now works part-time as a deputy -- responded to a call for assistance of an animal being stuck in a residence, according to the Ascension (Louisiana) Parish Sheriff's Office Facebook page . By the time Scott arrived, several neighbors were already trying to assist. With their help, he removed the upper frame molding of the garage door, allowing the cat to be freed.   “I am not much of a cat person, but no one wants to see an animal suffer,” said Deputy Scott. “After losing so much from the flood, I was happy that I could save the homeowner’s cat. Thank God for miracles and good neighbors.” Shares                  Cat Caught in Garage Door Saved by Deputy   Tom Brady Named MVP in Historic Super Bowl Win   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Apple, Google, Uber Join Fight Against Trump Travel Ban   2 States Say Allowing Travel Ban Would 'Unleash Chaos Again'   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Pence: Education Pick DeVos Will Be Confirmed With His Vote   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Despite White House Warning, Israel Pushes Settlement Bill   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   College Responds to Trump's Order With Refugee Scholarship   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   Melissa McCarthy Skewers Sean Spicer on 'SNL'

As a sheriff's deputy who worked for decades serving Louisiana, Deputy Mike Scott likely witnessed his fair share of unusual events. But nothing prepared him for what he responded to a call for a cat stuck in a garage door.

On Dec. 29, Scott -- who retired as a captain in 2011, but now works part-time as a deputy -- responded to a call for assistance of an animal being stuck in a residence, according to the Ascension (Louisiana) Parish Sheriff's Office Facebook page.

By the time Scott arrived, several neighbors were already trying to assist. With their help, he removed the upper frame molding of the garage door, allowing the cat to be freed.

Ascension Parish Sheriffs Office

Bella the cat was checked for injuries and none were found. According to the sheriff's department Facebook post, the homeowner told Deputy Scott Bella that the cat must have been sleeping on the garage door and he did not notice when he left. The homeowner was out shopping for lumber after flooding damaged his home.

“I am not much of a cat person, but no one wants to see an animal suffer,” said Deputy Scott. “After losing so much from the flood, I was happy that I could save the homeowner’s cat. Thank God for miracles and good neighbors.”