Jennifer Lopez Teases New Show 'World of Dance': Watch
Jennifer Lopez Teases New Show 'World of Dance': Watch 
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Jennifer Lopez Teases New Show 'World of Dance': Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Jennifer Lopez gave fans a first look at her upcoming competition show today on her social media platforms, posting a short preview clip that she captioned with "1 million reasons to show up and leave it out on the dance floor." J.Lo, Ne-Yo and Derek Hough will serve as judges, while actress and dancer Jenna Dewan Tatum will host the show. The 10-episode run will challenge contestants to demonstrate their skills in an unlimited range of dance, including hip-hop and ballroom. The winner will receive $1 million.  premieres this spring on NBC. Watch the teaser below: #1millionrea$ons to show up and leave it out #onthefloor. #Worldofdance comes to @NBC this spring! A video posted by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on  "This will be a fierce talent-heavy dance competition that embraces the raw emotion and excitement that dance represents," Lopez said in a previous statement. "I am excited to work with World of Dance, an organization that has had an immeasurable impact on the dance community, to give all dancers an enormous platform where their dreams can be realized."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Jennifer Lopez at the Upfront Party held at theÂ MoMA in New York City onÂ May 16, 2016.Â

Jennifer Lopez gave fans a first look at her upcoming competition show World of Dance today on her social media platforms, posting a short preview clip that she captioned with "1 million reasons to show up and leave it out on the dance floor."

J.Lo, Ne-Yo and Derek Hough will serve as judges, while actress and dancer Jenna Dewan Tatum will host the show. The 10-episode run will challenge contestants to demonstrate their skills in an unlimited range of dance, including hip-hop and ballroom. The winner will receive $1 million.

World of Dance premieres this spring on NBC. Watch the teaser below:

#1millionrea$ons to show up and leave it out #onthefloor. #Worldofdance comes to @NBC this spring! A video posted by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Jan 10, 2017 at 9:05am PST

"This will be a fierce talent-heavy dance competition that embraces the raw emotion and excitement that dance represents," Lopez said in a previous statement. "I am excited to work with World of Dance, an organization that has had an immeasurable impact on the dance community, to give all dancers an enormous platform where their dreams can be realized."