Russian serial killer known as The Werewolf is charged with 25 new murders
Russian serial killer The Werewolf charged with 25 new murders


A notorious Russian serial killer and sex maniac has been charged with 25 new murders of women, bringing his total to 47.

Known as The Werewolf, former policeman Mikhail Popkov raped and killed his victims with axes, knives or screwdrivers between 1992 and 2007.

The Siberian beast is already serving a life sentence for 22 murders of women and girls and has confessed to another 25, for which investigators say they now have hard evidence.

Popkov (pictured) is serving a life sentence already for 22 murders. Russia banned the death penalty in 1996, although some politicians have been calling for it to be restored

Police are still seeking to find definite proof of an additional dozen murders to which he has admitted, and a criminal investigation is ongoing.

Law enforcement sources believe his eventual total will exceed his sinister idol, the Soviet era serial killer Andrei Chikatilo, known as The Butcher of Rostov, who was convicted of 53 murders.

Chikatilo was executed in 1994, two years before Russia scrapped the death penalty.

Rogues' gallery: If he has killed 59, Popkov's death toll would exceed Russian serial killers Andrei Chikatilo (pictured, left) and Alexander Pichushkin (right), who got his nickname because he claimed each of his victims represented a place on a chessboard

Since then maniac Alexander Pichushkin, known as The Chessboard Killer, killed 49, mainly in Moscow's Bitsa Park.

After Popkov was detained in 2012, he told police he wanted to 'cleanse' the streets of 'prostitutes' in Angarsk, the city in Siberia where he worked as a policeman.

Popkov, 52, has told police he has killed 59 people.

But in court in nearby Irkutsk, when asked by Judge Pavel Rukavishnikov how many women he had killed, he shrugged and replied: 'I can't say exactly, I didn't keep a record.'

As is common with murderers in Russia, Popkov (pictured) was taken back to the scene of his crimes - in handcuffs - and asked to reconstruct what happened. He is seen here near the village of Savateevka, near Angarsk

The mass killer also told the court: 'I admit my guilt in full...committing the murders, I was guided by my inner convictions.'

'He often offered victims night time lifts in his police car before taking them to remote locations where he raped and killed them, leaving their naked bodies in woods on roadsides,' reported the The Siberian Times.

Some of the 25 new victims were women reported as missing but whose fate was previously unknown.

Popkov is expected to face trial for the latest 25 murders this summer.

Police revealed they have found human remains of a 'large number' of victims in locations where Popkov told them to look.

Viktoria Chagaeva (pictured) holds a picture of her sister. She says: 'The pain does not go away - it was me who gave Tanya a ticket to go to a concert, and she was killed after attending it'

Two of his earlier victims were Tanya Martynova, 20, and Yulia Kuprikova, 19, who were both found dead in October 1998, after a night out in Angarsk.

Tanya's sister Viktoria Chagaeva, now 49, said: 'The pain does not go away - it was me who gave Tanya a ticket to go to a concert, and she was killed after attending it.'

Senior investigator Andrei Bunayev disclosed last year: 'He names the places where bodies are hidden.

'We find these bodies, and check his involvement. He says very clearly, when and what was done.

Popkov was a policeman for many years in Angarsk (pictured) and after he left the force he began selling cars, which he brought from Vladivostok

'We are looking for evidence that confirms his words. A large number of episodes are confirmed.'

He said Popkov 'left biological traces in some cases which were not studied earlier - but now there is an opportunity to examine them'.

In other cases, sites were dug up guided by the convicted mass murderer.

Mr Bunayev said: 'Popkov is collaborating with us. Everything he says is confirmed.

'He confidently guides us to the place where a body is found and explains what happened, what injuries he caused.'

Mikhail Popkov with his daughter Ekaterina, as a child. Now 29, she says: 'I do not believe any of this. I always felt myself as "Daddy's girl"'

Popkov's wife Elena, 51, and daughter Ekaterina, 29, a teacher, initially stood by him, refusing to believe he was a mass killer.

Ekaterina said: 'I do not believe any of this. I always felt myself as "Daddy's girl".

'We walked, rode bikes, went to the shops, and he met me from school.'

But since his first trial which finished in January 2015, she and her mother have moved to another city to begin new lives.

Police said Popkov had earlier claimed he had stopped his rape-and-murder spree in 2000 after supposedly contracting venereal disease from a victim, rendering him impotent.

Popkov's daughter Ekaterina (left) and wife Elena (right) have moved away from Angarsk

After he quit the police, he travelled across eastern Russia to buy cars in Vladivostok in the Russian Far East, which he then sold in Angarsk.

Police are believed to have found some victims along this 2,500 mile route.

Popkov is thought to have begun his murder spree after wrongly suspecting his wife of cheating on him.

He admitted he had a negative view of women who went out at night to drink without their husbands or boyfriends.

'I had no right to evaluate people, their behaviour...this is my repentance,' Popkov says now.

He evaded capture for years because police could not contemplate that one of their own officers could be a mass killer.