The Force Is Strong With This Family's BB-8 Snowman
The Force Is Strong With This Family's BB-8 Snowman


The state's health department is describing influenza as "widespread" after four children died from it in January.

Lady Gaga is still basking in the glow of her blockbuster performance at the Super Bowl LI halftime show -- and so are her music sales.

ABC News' Lara Spencer reports the buzziest stories of the day in "GMA" Pop News,

An Illinois pet food company is voluntarily recalling five lots in its Hunk of Beef line because of a "potential contaminant pentobarbital" detected in one lot, according to a press release from the Federal Food and Drug Administration.

Christie Brinkley is back in one of the magazines that made her a superstar: the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue.

In his first appearance before Congress as secretary of Homeland Security, John Kelly called President Trump's executive order on immigration "lawful and constitutional."

A billionaire businessman and a former president appeared to be enjoying themselves on vacation.

Law enforcement officials launch manhunt in Florida for the two suspects who may be linked to three murders.

Couple Suspected of Multi-State Killing Spree Still on the Loose

Vice President Mike Pence voted to break the tie in the Senate today over the confirmation of Michigan education activist Betsy DeVos to serve as the Trump administration's secretary of education.

Tony Francis, of Highland, Utah, spent two hours working on this picture-perfect BB-8 snowman with his daughter.

The Force Is Strong With This Family's BB-8 Snowman

The Force Is Strong With This Family's BB-8 Snowman

The Force Is Strong With This Family's BB-8 Snowman

The Force is strong with Tony Francis and his daughter Gwen’s 4-foot-tall BB-8 snowman they built in the backyard of their Highland, Utah, home.

“From November until now she’s been begging me to do it but we never had enough snow,” Francis told ABC News of his 7-year-old daughter’s persistence. “I was leaving Sunday for work and had 3 or 4 hours before I had to travel, so I just got her up and said, ‘Get your stuff on.’” View gallery . Courtesy of Tony Francis

His daughter is a big "Star Wars" fan, which is something this proud papa can certainly get behind.

"For Halloween she wanted to be Rey," he said, referring to the lead character in "The Force Awakens." "I love it because 'Star Wars' is full of strong female characters for her."

Little Boy Wins Halloween With Homemade 'Star Wars' Tauntaun Costume

Dad Creates Giant 'Star Wars' Death Star on Top of Family's Home

Francis and Gwen spent two hours rolling a “big ol' ball” into the BB-8 shape, then used a butter knife to mold the top layer into the perfectly edged semi-circle. View gallery . Courtesy of Tony Francis

As for the rest of the family getting in on the fun, “My wife watched form the window,” Francis said with a laugh.

The entire project only cost Francis $8 for the orange spray paint.

After all their hard work, though, Francis said his daughter was “over it” within 10 minutes.

“It was funny -- all that build-up and then 10 minutes later she’s done with it,” he said.

It’s safe to say their droid sculpture is the winter vision of every “Star Wars” fan’s dreams though, and was trending on the front page of Reddit over the weekend.