FLOTUS Had The Most Adorable Picture To Share After Barack Obama Delivered His Final Speech
FLOTUS Had The Most Adorable Picture To Share After Barack Obama Delivered His Final Speech
FLOTUS Had The Most Adorable Picture To Share After Barack Obama Delivered His Final Speech Barack Obama bid an emotional goodbye on Tuesday night in what was his last speech as President. Promising to "be right there with you, as a citizen, for all my days that remain", Obama offered strength to thousands of citizens, who were feeling bogged down under the weight of welcoming America's next leadership. Obama offered them hope and reminded them of the one thing he had asked them when he was elected President: With that, he took his leave. And cheering him on - amid the millions who were present in Chicago and those who had tuned in to listen to his speech from different time zones - was his adorable wife, Michelle. The First Lady took to Twitter to express her love for her husband, and shared this amazing picture of her family - the family we all fell in love with eight years ago. Her message read: So proud of @POTUS and all that we've accomplished together. An incredible journey filled with remarkable people. I love you Barack. -mo pic.twitter.com/TFUN3GDLyz During his speech, Obama couldn't hold back his tears and neither could his family as he expressed how proud he was of them. Here's the clip of that heartwarming moment from his speech that will, without fail, bring a tear to your eye as well. Obama out.

Barack Obama bid an emotional goodbye on Tuesday night in what was his last speech as President. Promising to "be right there with you, as a citizen, for all my days that remain", Obama offered strength to thousands of citizens, who were feeling bogged down under the weight of welcoming America's next leadership. Obama offered them hope and reminded them of the one thing he had asked them when he was elected President:

"I am asking you to believe. Not in my ability to bring about change – but in yours."

AP

With that, he took his leave.

And cheering him on - amid the millions who were present in Chicago and those who had tuned in to listen to his speech from different time zones - was his adorable wife, Michelle.

The First Lady took to Twitter to express her love for her husband, and shared this amazing picture of her family - the family we all fell in love with eight years ago.

Twitter/FLOTUS

Her message read:

So proud of @POTUS and all that we've accomplished together. An incredible journey filled with remarkable people. I love you Barack. -mo pic.twitter.com/TFUN3GDLyz — The First Lady (@FLOTUS) January 11, 2017

During his speech, Obama couldn't hold back his tears and neither could his family as he expressed how proud he was of them. Here's the clip of that heartwarming moment from his speech that will, without fail, bring a tear to your eye as well.

Obama out.