Sara Bareilles in Talks to Join 'Waitress' Broadway Cast
Sara Bareilles in Talks to Join 'Waitress' Broadway Cast
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Sara Bareilles in Talks to Join 'Waitress' Broadway Cast  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After earning a Grammy nomination for the music from the Broadway hit , Sara Bareilles is close to properly performing the songs she penned by joining the production as its star. A source tells that the "Brave" singer is in final talks to join the cast of in the lead role of Jenna Hunterson. According to the source, performances with the pop singer-songwriter would begin in the spring.  Bareilles wrote the music and lyrics to , which is based off of the 2007 film of the same name, for an August 2015 premiere in Cambridge. The musical made its Broadway debut last year and currently stars Jessie Mueller. Reps for Bareilles did not immediately respond to request for comment. is currently nominated for the Grammy Award for best musical theater album; a win would be a first for Bareilles, whose most recent album, 2013's , was up for album of the year three years ago.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After earning a Grammy nomination for the music from the Broadway hit Waitress, Sara Bareilles is close to properly performing the songs she penned by joining the production as its star.

A source tells Billboard that the "Brave" singer is in final talks to join the cast of Waitress in the lead role of Jenna Hunterson. According to the source, performances with the pop singer-songwriter would begin in the spring.

Bareilles wrote the music and lyrics to Waitress, which is based off of the 2007 film of the same name, for an August 2015 premiere in Cambridge. The musical made its Broadway debut last year and currently stars Jessie Mueller.

Reps for Bareilles did not immediately respond to request for comment. Waitress is currently nominated for the Grammy Award for best musical theater album; a win would be a first for Bareilles, whose most recent album, 2013's The Blessed Unrest, was up for album of the year three years ago.