Want a new job in the new year? Ask the experts – live chat

Sarah Shearman    For many people, January is the most miserable time of the year; after a period of overindulgence, it’s a month for hibernating, saving money and sobering up. Others see it as an opportunity for a fresh start; a chance to become fitter, happier and more productive. January is a busy month for recruiters too, as many people hunt for new jobs in the hope of lifting their back-to-work blues. More than half of the UK workforce will be looking for a new job in 2017, according to a survey [pdf] by Investors in People – while a quarter of UK workers are already actively applying for new roles. When the evenings and mornings are dark and cold, it can be hard to find the energy to get out and network. Likewise, many people know they want a new career, but are unsure where to start. There is also a chance that wanting to throw in the towel might be a temporary or seasonal feeling, making it hard to know whether it is a better idea to stay put. So if you are feeling dissatisfied at work, join us on for a live chat with a panel of career experts. We’ll be discussing: Whether it is time to quit and find a new job, or work for yourself How you can make your existing role more challenging, and progress Tips on how to change career in the new year How to find new opportunities at work The panel is a core member of the Careershifters team, an organisation which helps people change career into work that’s right for them. She has worked in the career change field since 2010.  is an HR and resourcing specialist who owns Fairman Consulting . Fairman also offers free CV advice, interview guidance and careers blogs to help job seekers succeed. is the director of StandOut CV , a London-based CV writing service. Fennell previously worked as a senior recruitment consultant across multiple industries. is a careers adviser for the National Careers Service , specialising in matching young people and graduates to careers. Graham also works for the National Careers Service Helpline. is a job search, application and interview specialist, with experience in business reorganisation and recruitment. He is the author of Winning That Job, editor of win-that-job.com . is a career coach at CareerWorx , specialising in career change strategy. She is a registered career development professional and has over 18 years’ experience helping people plan and manage their careers. is a CV writer and the founder of Giraffe CVs . She recently published her first book, Ace Your CV, Elevate Your Career, helping job seekers to increase career confidence and open interview doors. , CV writer and interview coach, is the founder of CityCV.co.uk . She is a former recruitment manager at Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch, and is a multiple prize winner in the global CV writing industry awards. is the managing director of Personal Career Management , a leading career coaching and outplacement company. She has written the best-selling career books, You’re Hired: How to write a brilliant CV and Career Coach. The Q&A takes place in the comments section below this article. Taking part is easier than ever: create a free Guardian account , or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profiles to comment. Alternatively, tweet us @GuardianCareers or email your questions to sarah.shearman@theguardian.com who can post them for you. Topics  Live Q&As   Live Q and A   Career choices   Work & careers   Live Q&A

For many people, January is the most miserable time of the year; after a period of overindulgence, it’s a month for hibernating, saving money and sobering up. Others see it as an opportunity for a fresh start; a chance to become fitter, happier and more productive.

January is a busy month for recruiters too, as many people hunt for new jobs in the hope of lifting their back-to-work blues. More than half of the UK workforce will be looking for a new job in 2017, according to a survey [pdf] by Investors in People – while a quarter of UK workers are already actively applying for new roles.

When the evenings and mornings are dark and cold, it can be hard to find the energy to get out and network. Likewise, many people know they want a new career, but are unsure where to start. There is also a chance that wanting to throw in the towel might be a temporary or seasonal feeling, making it hard to know whether it is a better idea to stay put.

So if you are feeling dissatisfied at work, join us on Wednesday 11 January from 1–2.30pm GMT for a live chat with a panel of career experts. We’ll be discussing:

Whether it is time to quit and find a new job, or work for yourself



How you can make your existing role more challenging, and progress



Tips on how to change career in the new year



How to find new opportunities at work



The panel

Sarah Byrne is a core member of the Careershifters team, an organisation which helps people change career into work that’s right for them. She has worked in the career change field since 2010.

Lydia Fairman is an HR and resourcing specialist who owns Fairman Consulting. Fairman also offers free CV advice, interview guidance and careers blogs to help job seekers succeed.

Andrew Fennell is the director of StandOut CV, a London-based CV writing service. Fennell previously worked as a senior recruitment consultant across multiple industries.

Sophie Graham is a careers adviser for the National Careers Service, specialising in matching young people and graduates to careers. Graham also works for the National Careers Service Helpline.

Jon Gregory is a job search, application and interview specialist, with experience in business reorganisation and recruitment. He is the author of Winning That Job, editor of win-that-job.com.

Lisa LaRue is a career coach at CareerWorx, specialising in career change strategy. She is a registered career development professional and has over 18 years’ experience helping people plan and manage their careers.

Lis McGuire is a CV writer and the founder of Giraffe CVs. She recently published her first book, Ace Your CV, Elevate Your Career, helping job seekers to increase career confidence and open interview doors.

Victoria McLean, CV writer and interview coach, is the founder of CityCV.co.uk. She is a former recruitment manager at Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch, and is a multiple prize winner in the global CV writing industry awards.

Corinne Mills is the managing director of Personal Career Management, a leading career coaching and outplacement company. She has written the best-selling career books, You’re Hired: How to write a brilliant CV and Career Coach.

The Q&A takes place in the comments section below this article. Taking part is easier than ever: create a free Guardian account, or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profiles to comment. Alternatively, tweet us @GuardianCareers or email your questions to sarah.shearman@theguardian.com who can post them for you.

Looking for a job? Browse Guardian Jobs or sign up to Guardian Careers for the latest job vacancies and career advice