Indian Basketball Star Satnam Singh Looks To Move Into Prowrestling As He Is Seen Training With WWE
Indian Basketball Star Satnam Singh Looks To Move Into Prowrestling As He Trains With WWE
Indian Basketball Star Satnam Singh Looks To Move Into Prowrestling As He Is Seen Training With WWE Satnam Singh may not be a household name in India yet, but he may soon be. The 7ft 2inch basketball player rose to prominence almost 2 years back when Dallas Mavericks picked him during the NBA draft as the 52nd overall pick. Upon his draft, he was not just the first Indian-born player to be drafted into the NBA but also the first player since the 2005 NBA draft to enter the draft without playing in college, overseas professionally. Though he never made it into their first team, he is regular with their D-league team Texas Legends and that's about it. He is yet to make an impact for India on the international scene too but it seems like the 21-year-old has other plans for now. He was recently seen at the WWE performance center in Orlando, Florida - the home of NXT, 205 Live and WWE's favourite training facility - along with some of their new recruits. While there is no major news on a deal being in the off, this sure looks like a start, if WWE is looking to head into a heir-apparent to the Great Khali gimmick. Hailing from Punjab's village of Ballo Ke, Satnam was also the subject of a recently released Netflix documentary titled “One in a Billion,” which details his remarkable journey to professional basketball. American Ninja Warrior sensation Kacy Catanzaro and New Orleans Saints linebacker Kasim Edebali in running the ropes.

Satnam Singh may not be a household name in India yet, but he may soon be.

WWE

The 7ft 2inch basketball player rose to prominence almost 2 years back when Dallas Mavericks picked him during the NBA draft as the 52nd overall pick.

Upon his draft, he was not just the first Indian-born player to be drafted into the NBA but also the first player since the 2005 NBA draft to enter the draft without playing in college, overseas professionally. Though he never made it into their first team, he is regular with their D-league team Texas Legends and that's about it.

WWE

He is yet to make an impact for India on the international scene too but it seems like the 21-year-old has other plans for now.

WWE

He was recently seen at the WWE performance center in Orlando, Florida - the home of NXT, 205 Live and WWE's favourite training facility - along with some of their new recruits. While there is no major news on a deal being in the off, this sure looks like a start, if WWE is looking to head into a heir-apparent to the Great Khali gimmick.

Sports Illustrated

Hailing from Punjab's village of Ballo Ke, Satnam was also the subject of a recently released Netflix documentary titled “One in a Billion,” which details his remarkable journey to professional basketball.

WWE

He was not alone at the center though as he was joined by American Ninja Warrior sensation Kacy Catanzaro and New Orleans Saints linebacker Kasim Edebali in running the ropes.

WW

WWE shows much pride at being a truly international organisation with superstars from countries across the world. But since Khali's removal from their roster, there has not been any Indian superstar who we could root for. They do have the Bollywood Boyz - Harv and Gurv Sihra - on the 205 Live roster but they are far from becoming mainstream yet.

Here's hoping to see Satnam in NXT soon, but even if doesn't I surely wish I see him in a Mavericks jersey down the line.