Now We Know Why Sasha Obama Skipped Dad's Farewell Address

Now We Know Why Sasha Obama Skipped Dad's Farewell Address // // // Where in the world was President Barack Obama's youngest daughter Sasha during his farewell address Tuesday night in Chicago? Well, now we know. A White House official confirmed that Sasha was at home in Washington, D.C., studying for a school exam the next day. Where was Sasha? WH Official says she stayed back in DC tonight because she has an exam at school tomorrow morning. — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) January 11, 2017 Though Sasha was not there in person, President Obama still gave a touching tribute to both his daughters during his speech. "Malia and Sasha, under the strangest of circumstances, you have become two amazing young women. Of all that I have done in my life, I am most proud to be your dad," the president said. He is likely even more proud that his daughter prioritized her schoolwork over her father's important farewell speech. Sasha, 15, attends Washington, D.C.’s Sidwell Friends School. Her older sister Malia graduated from high school last year and will enroll at Harvard in the fall of 2017. Sasha Obama:"Can I get Tuesday night off, my dad is giving his farewell speech" Manager:"Only if you can find someone to cover your shift" — Celine Besman (@CelineBesman) January 11, 2017 Sasha Obama didn't attend the Farewell Address because she has an exam tomorrow morning. Michelle don't play games. — cloy (@chloenbrandon) January 11, 2017 If Sasha Obama really missed this because of an exam in the morning, there are no more excuses for anything, ever. — Viral Patel (@viralmpatel19) January 11, 2017 Sasha Obama just nullified every plausible absence from class you were thinking of using this semester https://t.co/PHyhtMhb8b — Elle Beene (@elle_beene) January 11, 2017

Where in the world was President Barack Obama's youngest daughter Sasha during his farewell address Tuesday night in Chicago?

Well, now we know.

Obama: America is 'Better, Stronger' Than When I Took Office

WATCH: O'Reilly Looks Back On 8 Years of President Obama

Paul: Repeal ObamaCare the Same Day a Replacement is Ready

A White House official confirmed that Sasha was at home in Washington, D.C., studying for a school exam the next day.

Where was Sasha? WH Official says she stayed back in DC tonight because she has an exam at school tomorrow morning. — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) January 11, 2017

Though Sasha was not there in person, President Obama still gave a touching tribute to both his daughters during his speech.

"Malia and Sasha, under the strangest of circumstances, you have become two amazing young women. Of all that I have done in my life, I am most proud to be your dad," the president said.

He is likely even more proud that his daughter prioritized her schoolwork over her father's important farewell speech.

Sasha, 15, attends Washington, D.C.’s Sidwell Friends School. Her older sister Malia graduated from high school last year and will enroll at Harvard in the fall of 2017.

Sasha Obama:"Can I get Tuesday night off, my dad is giving his farewell speech"

Manager:"Only if you can find someone to cover your shift" — Celine Besman (@CelineBesman) January 11, 2017

Sasha Obama didn't attend the Farewell Address because she has an exam tomorrow morning. Michelle don't play games. — cloy (@chloenbrandon) January 11, 2017

If Sasha Obama really missed this because of an exam in the morning, there are no more excuses for anything, ever. — Viral Patel (@viralmpatel19) January 11, 2017

Sasha Obama just nullified every plausible absence from class you were thinking of using this semester https://t.co/PHyhtMhb8b — Elle Beene (@elle_beene) January 11, 2017

Bevin: Simultaneous Repeal and Replace of Obamacare 'Makes Great Sense'

Conway: Congress Must Repeal, Replace ObamaCare in 'Quick Succession'

Glenn Beck on Anti-Trump Unrest: 'We Are Living In Critical Times'