Florida State Seminoles assistant coach says collision with Grayson Allen of Duke Blue Devils not a dirty play
FSU assistant: Push by Duke's Allen not 'dirty'
FSU assistant: Push by Duke's Allen not 'dirty' Gonzaga, Villanova top poll after wild week Bragg suited up for Kansas' game on Monday Louisville's Mathiang, Adel sit for missing curfew A10: Technical on Bonnies not for storming court 'Crazy' but true: Boeheim gets win No. 899* Coach K feels 'lucky' as Duke wins in his return Villanova remains No. 1 in ESPN's BPI, assumes top spot in Strength of Record Perrantes pushes Virginia past Louisville College hoops Power Rankings: When the mighty fall Tar Heels thrive in 'weird' situation against Notre Dame Dickie V's weekly awards: Jacob Wiley's big numbers 899 or 1,000? Like the man, Boeheim's win total is complicated The road to the Big 12 title goes through where, exactly? Rank 'em: Who are the top 10 teams in the country right now? Kentucky will walk to the SEC title? Not so fast Duke finally has all its pieces but is far from a finished product Oregon sends a message with rout of Arizona Gonzaga proving to be a team worthy of its rank Duke guard Grayson Allen makes contact with a Florida State assistant coach as he falls onto the bench in the second half of the Blue Devils' 88-72 loss to the Seminoles. (0:19) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Joined ESPN as a college basketball Insider in June 2013 Previously wrote for CBSSports.com and FOXSports.com Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Florida State assistant coach Dennis Gates was adamant that a collision with Duke guard Grayson Allen on the Seminoles bench on Tuesday, in which the player made contact with Gates, was purely a "basketball play." "Grayson Allen did not make a dirty play," Gates told ESPN on Wednesday morning. "That was not a dirty play. He plays hard, he dove after a loose ball. I should have been sitting down, but I wasn't. My intent was to absorb the contact. His hip hit my hip and that's what people aren't looking it. That's a basketball play. Not a dirty play." Allen, in his third game back since serving a one-game suspension for tripping an opponent (his third such incident in the past 10 months), crashed into Gates as he was falling into the seats late in the Blue Devils' 88-72 loss . The play, which came as the No. 9 Seminoles were leading the No. 7 Blue Devils 75-61 with 6:00 to play in the second half, went under the radar after the game, with no known references from coaches or players of Allen's shove. Allen and Gates both ended up prone on the floor amid several collapsed courtside chairs. Allen then left the game with an apparent head injury suffered during a play less than 30 seconds later and did not return. Gates played at Cal and has been on the Florida State staff for the past six seasons. With Allen running full speed at 202 pounds, Gates told ESPN he would have fared worse if Allen was intentional with his actions. "We teach kids to run down loose balls and make hustle plays," Gates said. "That's what he did. He was just trying to get back in the play. "Out of reaction, he put his hands up to protect himself," he continued. "He didn't push me. He was just protecting himself." Gates also told ESPN there was no verbal exchange from Allen. "No words were exchanged on the play," he said. "It was just a basketball play." Tuesday was Allen's first road game since his suspension for tripping Elon guard Steven Santa Ana on Dec. 21. Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski's one-game punishment was widely criticized for being too lenient. That scrutiny only intensified after Duke defeated Boston College 93-82 on Saturday, when Allen appeared to trip Eagles forward Connar Tava . A statement issued by the ACC stated, "There is nothing conclusive that can be determined" as to whether Allen intentionally made contact with Tava's leg or foot. Every time Allen touched the ball or lined up at the free throw line Tuesday, he heard thunderous boos. There was a sign likening him to a toddler. Another mocked him for being stripped of his captaincy. He mustered nine points with five assists and three turnovers. Duke interim head coach Jeff Capel, who is replacing Krzyzewski while he recovers from back surgery, said he didn't believe Allen was affected by the hostile environment. "I don't think what other people say, chant or do wears on him that much," Capel said. "The kid has been through a lot -- he brought a lot of it on himself, but some of the things that have happened are just crazy. "I am not talking about the chanting; that stuff happens on the road with a really good crowd, and they had a really great crowd tonight. But I don't think that wore on him. I think Florida State's defense and their relentless pressure did." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Duke guard Grayson Allen makes contact with a Florida State assistant coach as he falls onto the bench in the second half of the Blue Devils' 88-72 loss to the Seminoles. (0:19)

Florida State assistant coach Dennis Gates was adamant that a collision with Duke guard Grayson Allen on the Seminoles bench on Tuesday, in which the player made contact with Gates, was purely a "basketball play."

"Grayson Allen did not make a dirty play," Gates told ESPN on Wednesday morning. "That was not a dirty play. He plays hard, he dove after a loose ball. I should have been sitting down, but I wasn't. My intent was to absorb the contact. His hip hit my hip and that's what people aren't looking it. That's a basketball play. Not a dirty play."

Allen, in his third game back since serving a one-game suspension for tripping an opponent (his third such incident in the past 10 months), crashed into Gates as he was falling into the seats late in the Blue Devils' 88-72 loss.

The play, which came as the No. 9 Seminoles were leading the No. 7 Blue Devils 75-61 with 6:00 to play in the second half, went under the radar after the game, with no known references from coaches or players of Allen's shove.

Allen and Gates both ended up prone on the floor amid several collapsed courtside chairs.

Editor's Picks FSU star: Beating Duke 'personal' year after trip A year after being tripped by Duke's Grayson Allen, FSU star Xavier Rathan-Mayes said beating the Blue Devils this season was "personal."

No. 9 FSU topples No. 7 Duke for 12th straight win Xavier Rathan-Mayes scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half, helping No. 9 Florida State beat No. 7 Duke 88-72 on Tuesday night.

ACC: Inconclusive if Duke's Allen tried to trip foe Duke's Grayson Allen, who has already been suspended for tripping, appeared to use his leg to contact an opponent Saturday, but the ACC said it's unclear whether Allen intended to do so. 2 Related

Allen then left the game with an apparent head injury suffered during a play less than 30 seconds later and did not return.

Gates played at Cal and has been on the Florida State staff for the past six seasons. With Allen running full speed at 202 pounds, Gates told ESPN he would have fared worse if Allen was intentional with his actions.

"We teach kids to run down loose balls and make hustle plays," Gates said. "That's what he did. He was just trying to get back in the play.

"Out of reaction, he put his hands up to protect himself," he continued. "He didn't push me. He was just protecting himself."

Gates also told ESPN there was no verbal exchange from Allen.

"No words were exchanged on the play," he said. "It was just a basketball play."

Tuesday was Allen's first road game since his suspension for tripping Elon guard Steven Santa Ana on Dec. 21.

Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski's one-game punishment was widely criticized for being too lenient. That scrutiny only intensified after Duke defeated Boston College 93-82 on Saturday, when Allen appeared to trip Eagles forward Connar Tava.

A statement issued by the ACC stated, "There is nothing conclusive that can be determined" as to whether Allen intentionally made contact with Tava's leg or foot.

Every time Allen touched the ball or lined up at the free throw line Tuesday, he heard thunderous boos. There was a sign likening him to a toddler. Another mocked him for being stripped of his captaincy. He mustered nine points with five assists and three turnovers.

Duke interim head coach Jeff Capel, who is replacing Krzyzewski while he recovers from back surgery, said he didn't believe Allen was affected by the hostile environment.

"I don't think what other people say, chant or do wears on him that much," Capel said. "The kid has been through a lot -- he brought a lot of it on himself, but some of the things that have happened are just crazy.

"I am not talking about the chanting; that stuff happens on the road with a really good crowd, and they had a really great crowd tonight. But I don't think that wore on him. I think Florida State's defense and their relentless pressure did."

Information from ESPN's Jenna Laine was used in this report.