Bored Panda show off the fumiest pictures of animals in clumsy situations
Are these the most hilarious animal fails EVER?


Their situations may be unfortunate but they are

When it comes to mixing animals with human environments its almost always going to end up a disaster as these critters prove.

Their curious nature means it is easy for these creatures to get themselves into all kind of scrapes.

In a selection of hilarious photos compiled by BoredPanda clumsy animals can be seen struggling with the simplest tasks.

BoredPanda has compiled a selection of the Internet's most hilarious animal fails such as this seal who is a little too enthusiastic about his lunch

Many of the creatures find themselves embarrassingly wedged with one hamster caught in his plastic cage and a ferret struggling to escape from a cardboard tube.

For others it is their constant quest for food making sticky situations for them but perfect photo opportunities for their owners.

In one hilarious photo a hungry hound attempts to chow down on a photo of some dog food seen on a poster.

And one feline is quick to learn that a cactus does not make the tastiest of treat as she attempts to nibble on one.

While their situations may be a little unfortunate they are almost guaranteed to make you laugh.

Are you lost? With no pond in site this Canadian goose has settled for a rather minuscule puddle in the centre of a car park

This mouse has gone Mission Impossible as he shimmies his way up the side of a bed

This especially expressive feline seems to be doing anything he can to avoid losing his spot on the couch

An adorable ferret struggles to release itself from a cardboard tube after becoming too curious about its interior

One zoo visitor captures the moment a clumsy sea lion swims straight into the glass

This pet owner may have had to intervene when their hamster with a large appetite got wedged in their cage

This hungry hound goes in pursuit of a snack only to discover that it is sniffing a poster

And one feline is quick to learn that a cactus does not make the tastiest of treat as she attempts to nibble on one

This ferret was obviously feeling musical when it crawled into this guitar for a nap

Need some help? One squirrel appears to have been a little over ambitious when he tried to make this tree trunk his new home

One little boy was left in tears when this moggy caught his extremely sticky lollipop on his fur

There appears to be no reason for this cockatoo to perch in such a strange position but its owner decided to leave it be

It looks as though this small hedgehog could do with a hand after getting caught in a cardboard tube

This polar bear is clearly lacking in social graces after urinating on his pal's head

It is unlikely that this mucky pup will be invited back into his home any time soon

Reddit users alwaysumpteen revealed that his dog refused to put her bone down even when she needs to relieve herself

This sleepy kitten will be in for a nasty surprise when she finally gets up from her nap

While it was a total accident this bucket makes quite a fetching helmet on a polar bear