This group are giving away 4200 joints at Trump's inauguration and smoking them
This group are giving away 4200 joints at Trump's inauguration and smoking them
He's been a divisive figure, but that's not what we're talking about here. The D.C. Cannabis Coalition, a pro-weed group based in the capital, will be handing out free Marijuana on 20 January as a form of protest for reform. The group has said it will begin distributing 4,200 joints at 8am on the west side of the Dupont circle, lighting up on the National Mall. They will do so at four minutes and twenty seconds into Trump's speech, as the event dictates, as per the meme. Adam Eidinger, the founder of DCMJ, a group of D.C. residents and activists, said : The main message is it’s time to legalise cannabis at the federal level. He also said the protest was partly in opposition to Donald Trump's attorney general pick: We are looking at a guy who as recently as April said that they are going to enforce federal law on marijuana all over the country. He said marijuana is dangerous. It's legal to posess up to two ounces of weed in Washington, although it is illegal to sell Marijuana. As such the weed will be given out as gifts. The protest is not directly anti-Trump and is therefore not intended to disrupt the inauguration.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Donald Trump's inauguration is likely to be a fiery one.

He's been a divisive figure, but that's not what we're talking about here.

The D.C. Cannabis Coalition, a pro-weed group based in the capital, will be handing out free Marijuana on 20 January as a form of protest for reform.

The group has said it will begin distributing 4,200 joints at 8am on the west side of the Dupont circle, lighting up on the National Mall.

They will do so at four minutes and twenty seconds into Trump's speech, as the event dictates, as per the meme.

Adam Eidinger, the founder of DCMJ, a group of D.C. residents and activists, said:

The main message is it’s time to legalise cannabis at the federal level.

He also said the protest was partly in opposition to Donald Trump's attorney general pick:

We are looking at a guy who as recently as April said that they are going to enforce federal law on marijuana all over the country. He said marijuana is dangerous.

It's legal to posess up to two ounces of weed in Washington, although it is illegal to sell Marijuana.

As such the weed will be given out as gifts.

The protest is not directly anti-Trump and is therefore not intended to disrupt the inauguration.

HT NewsWeek

More: Police found this Christmas tree was actually just decorated cannabis