Trump Refuses To Divest Assets, Passes Control To Sons
Trump Refuses To Divest Assets, Passes Control To Sons
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Chase Peterson-Withorn       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Daniel Acker/Bloomberg)     Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Dan Alexander, Chase Peterson-Withorn and Jennifer Wang

Donald Trump will not divest from his business empire and will instead hand over control of his companies to sons Eric and Donald Jr., along with his longtime Chief Financial Officer Allen Weisselberg, Trump and his lawyer announced in a press conference at Trump Tower on Wednesday morning.

“They’re going to be running it in a very professional manner,” Trump said. “They’re not going to discuss it with me.”

Sheri Dillon, a lawyer with the firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, explained the details of the agreement. Trump’s assets -- including commercial real estate, licensing businesses and cash holdings -- will be transferred to a trust under the control of his sons and Weisselberg before his inauguration on Jan. 20. The three will have full authority to run the Trump Organization for the duration of Trump’s presidency; the president-elect will step down from all of his executive positions.

Trump will appoint an ethics advisor to vet all business transactions that could present a conflict of interest, according to a white paper released by Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. The Trump Organization will employ a chief compliance officer, whose job will be to ensure that the company does not exploit the presidency for profit.

Trump claims to have cancelled all pending business deals, according to the white paper, and the Trump Organization will not enter into new foreign licensing agreements, or any deals with foreign officials or the U.S. government, while Trump is in office. All new domestic projects are to be reviewed by the ethics advisor, and Trump pledges to donate to the U.S. Treasury any profits from foreign governments patronizing his “hotels and similar businesses.”

“President-Elect Trump will have no role in deciding whether The Trump Organization engages in any new deal, and he will be completely sequestered from any information regarding the Organization’s decisions,” the white paper reads. “In other words, he will learn about them only through the media, as the American People would.”

While Trump said his plan goes beyond what he is required to do, the move disappointed some ethics experts, who have been calling on Trump to sell his assets and put the proceeds into a blind trust. Trump will apparently, through the trust, retain ownership of the Trump Organization companies and will benefit financially from their dealings.

“Stepping back from running his business is meaningless from a conflict of interest perspective,” said U.S. Office of Government Ethics director Walter Schaub Jr. in remarks at the Brookings Institution on Wednesday, describing Trump’s plan as “wholly inadequate.”

“He has all of the conflicts of interest that he had before,” Richard Painter, who served as chief ethics lawyer in the George W. Bush administration, told Forbes. “We don’t know who his business partners are, we don’t know who he owes.”

Forbes estimates Trump to be worth $3.7 billion. More than half of his fortune -- nearly $2 billion -- is tied up in New York City real estate, including signature properties Trump Tower and 40 Wall Street. Trump also owns 30% of an office building, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, with publicly-traded Vornado Realty Trust and holds a 4% interest in Spring Creek Towers, a 46-tower government-subsidized housing complex in Brooklyn.

Trump has an additional $1.2 billion worth of real estate and golf courses across the country. His Florida holdings include the private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach and the Trump National Doral resort in Miami. In California he owns the former Bank of America tower at 555 California Street (again alongside Vornado), and in Nevada he and fellow billionaire Phil Ruffin each own half of the gold-windowed Trump Las Vegas hotel.

Trump’s personal property includes homes in Manhattan, Beverly Hills and Palm Beach, plus $35 million worth of planes and helicopters. Trump also has $230 million in cash and liquid assets, including a stock portfolio that he claims to have sold off last June.

It does not appear that Trump intends to sell his stake in the recently-opened Trump International Hotel, Washington D.C., which occupies the government-owned Old Post Office building near the White House. The lease Trump signed with the General Services Administration in 2013 seems to explicitly bar elected officials from being party to the agreement. The GSA released a statement Wednesday saying it is “seeking additional information” to determine whether Trump’s plan will violate the lease.

Trump’s international dealings, which stretch from Toronto to Istanbul and the Philippines, have attracted much scrutiny about potential conflicts of interest. But few of the projects bearing the Trump name outside of the U.S. are actually owned by the president-elect. Three golf courses -- Aberdeen and Turnberry in Scotland, and Doonbeg in Ireland -- are his only international properties.

The rest of Trump’s non-U.S. interests are part of either his hotel management and licensing business (which oversees the operation of hotels that are not owned by Trump and licenses the Trump brand to other companies) or his product licensing operation (which strikes deals to put Trump’s name on things like ties, coffee and bottled water). In all, his two licensing businesses are worth $137 million -- less than 4% of his net worth.

Now Donald Jr. and Eric Trump -- who have steadily risen through the ranks of the Trump Organization -- will control these holdings. Both sons are currently executive vice presidents of development and acquisitions at the company. Along with their sister, Ivanka, they have been credited with spearheading the Trump Hotel Collection that spans from Trump-owned properties in New York and Miami to licensing and management deals in Panama City and Indonesia. Donald Jr. was involved in the development of high-rise condo hotels Trump Las Vegas and Trump Chicago, and has been overseeing commercial leasing for the family company; Eric has been working on his father's extensive golf portfolio.

Ivanka will have no role managing the business, according to Dillon. She will move to Washington with with her husband, Jared Kushner, a real estate scion whose family is worth at least $1.8 billion. The couple was heavily involved in Trump's campaign and transition; Trump officially named Kushner a senior advisor on Monday.