Drake Pays Tribute to President Obama with Strange Mash-Up Image (And It's Blowing Up Online)
Drake Pays Tribute to President Obama with Strange Mash-Up Image (And It's Blowing Up Online)
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Drake Pays Tribute to President Obama with Strange Mash-Up Image (And It's Blowing Up Online)  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  doesn’t get the opportunity to vote on U.S. elections (well, he is Canadian), but he wasted no time in paying tribute to the outgoing president, Barack Obama. Following the POTUS’ farewell address in Chicago on Tuesday night, Drizzy shared some kind comments along with a can’t-look-away mash-up image of his and the POTUS’ face.  "As a Canadian that calls America home for part of the year I will always carry your words and the memory of your time in office with me as inspiration," Drizzy wrote in an Instagram post. "Big up yaself O." He's always had talent with words, but it's Drake’s meme-ready photo that’s lighting up the Internet. Check it out below. As a Canadian that calls America home for part of the year I will always carry your words and the memory of your time in office with me as inspiration. Big up yaself O. A photo posted by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Drake doesn’t get the opportunity to vote on U.S. elections (well, he is Canadian), but he wasted no time in paying tribute to the outgoing president, Barack Obama.

Following the POTUS’ farewell address in Chicago on Tuesday night, Drizzy shared some kind comments along with a can’t-look-away mash-up image of his and the POTUS’ face.

"As a Canadian that calls America home for part of the year I will always carry your words and the memory of your time in office with me as inspiration," Drizzy wrote in an Instagram post. "Big up yaself O."

He's always had talent with words, but it's Drake’s meme-ready photo that’s lighting up the Internet. Check it out below.