Season 2 of 'Better Call Saul' Might See the Return of a Major 'Breaking Bad' Character
Season 2 of 'Better Call Saul' Might See the Return of a Major 'Breaking Bad' Character
One of the biggest question with spin-off has been if some of our favorite characters would be appearing in the AMC series. Sure, we're getting to learn more about Jimmy McGill and his path to becoming Saul Goodman, with loads of backstory on Mike Ehrmantraut as well as seeing Hector "Tío" Salamanca actually doing more than sitting in a wheelchair and ringing a bell. Fans want the Walter Whites, though. Or a Jesse. Hell, a Gus Freng appearance could... wait, what the hell is that commercial up there? Unlisted on a random Los Pollos Hermanos YouTube page is the above 30-second clip, which looks like many wholesome, family-friendly chicken establishments. We just remember that it was a huge front for Gus Freng's meth operation, allowing him to manufacture and ship all kinds of drugs wherever he needed to go. Fans should also remember that it was through Saul that Walter got to meet Gus, allowing the start of a tense, tedious, and tragic relationship. With returning for its third season this spring, this is the perfect time to get fans' appetites whet with new information, but we still have time before an official trailer drops. For now, here's a brief teaser.

One of the biggest question with Breaking Bad spin-off Better Call Saul has been if some of our favorite Breaking Bad characters would be appearing in the AMC series. Sure, we're getting to learn more about Jimmy McGill and his path to becoming Saul Goodman, with loads of backstory on Mike Ehrmantraut as well as seeing Hector "Tío" Salamanca actually doing more than sitting in a wheelchair and ringing a bell. Fans want the Walter Whites, though. Or a Jesse. Hell, a Gus Freng appearance could... wait, what the hell is that commercial up there?

Unlisted on a random Los Pollos Hermanos YouTube page is the above 30-second clip, which looks like many wholesome, family-friendly chicken establishments. We just remember that it was a huge front for Gus Freng's meth operation, allowing him to manufacture and ship all kinds of drugs wherever he needed to go. Fans should also remember that it was through Saul that Walter got to meet Gus, allowing the start of a tense, tedious, and tragic relationship.

With Better Call Saul returning for its third season this spring, this is the perfect time to get fans' appetites whet with new information, but we still have time before an official trailer drops. For now, here's a brief teaser.