Sasha Obama Had a Pretty Good Reason for Skipping Her Dad's Farewell Address
Sasha Obama Had a Pretty Good Reason for Skipping Her Dad's Farewell Address
When President Barack Obama wrapped up his impassioned farewell address in Chicago Tuesday night, his family joined him on the stage and held hands while waving at the lively audience. Obama's youngest daughter Sasha, however, was noticeably absent: to those asking "where is Sasha" she probably at the White House setting home alone traps for Trump 😂 #imdown lol #ObamaFarewell Though an admirable theory, traps aren't to blame. So what keep the 15-year-old Sidwell Friends student from catching her dad's big night? According to a White House official's statement to the , Sasha was instead stuck in Washington studying for an exam scheduled for Wednesday morning. Missing that exam, per the school's official website, was apparently not an option: "Students must adhere to the published examination schedule. Absence for travel is not an adequate reason to re-schedule an exam." Now the admittedly great excuse teachers can give students from this day forward: "Oh, you need to reschedule your test? Have you ever heard of Sasha Obama?" "Of all that I’ve done in my life, I’m most proud to be your dad." — @POTUS to Malia and Sasha #ObamaFarewell  https://t.co/JLR06l27pJ During his farewell address, the President praised First Lady Michelle Obama and their two daughters, Sasha and Malia. "Malia and Sasha, under the strangest of circumstances, you have become two amazing young women, smart and beautiful, but more importantly, kind and thoughtful and full of passion," Obama said. "You wore the burden of years in the spotlight so easily. Of all that I've done in my life, I'm most proud to be your dad."

When President Barack Obama wrapped up his impassioned farewell address in Chicago Tuesday night, his family joined him on the stage and held hands while waving at the lively audience. Obama's youngest daughter Sasha, however, was noticeably absent:

to those asking "where is Sasha" she probably at the White House setting home alone traps for Trump 😂 #imdown lol #ObamaFarewell — CB Imprintz (@CBImprintz) January 11, 2017

Though an admirable theory, Home Alone traps aren't to blame. So what did keep the 15-year-old Sidwell Friends student from catching her dad's big night? According to a White House official's statement to the Washington Post, Sasha was instead stuck in Washington studying for an exam scheduled for Wednesday morning. Missing that exam, per the school's official website, was apparently not an option:

"Students must adhere to the published examination schedule. Absence for travel is not an adequate reason to re-schedule an exam."

Now imagine the admittedly great excuse teachers can give students from this day forward: "Oh, you need to reschedule your test? Have you ever heard of Sasha Obama?"

"Of all that I’ve done in my life, I’m most proud to be your dad." —@POTUS to Malia and Sasha #ObamaFarewell https://t.co/JLR06l27pJ — The White House (@WhiteHouse) January 11, 2017

During his farewell address, the President praised First Lady Michelle Obama and their two daughters, Sasha and Malia. "Malia and Sasha, under the strangest of circumstances, you have become two amazing young women, smart and beautiful, but more importantly, kind and thoughtful and full of passion," Obama said. "You wore the burden of years in the spotlight so easily. Of all that I've done in my life, I'm most proud to be your dad."