Unsurprisingly, Celebrities Were Not Impressed With Donald Trump's Press Conference
Unsurprisingly, Celebs Were Not Impressed With Trump's Press Conference
On Wednesday, Donald Trump held his first press conference since he won the election in November. It began with both incoming White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer and Vice President-elect Mike Pence condemning BuzzFeed’s decision to release an unverified intelligence report claiming Russian spies possessed “compromising personal and financial information about Trump.” When Trump took to the podium, he also denounced the report, and spoke about election-related hacking, his proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and Obamacare, among other issues, before turning things over to Sheri Dillon, a lawyer who spoke at length about Trump’s business and conflicts of interest. The whole presser was really ... and celebrities reacted appropriately: im gonna need a bigger TV to fit this administrations ego on. Trump is brilliant deflector. Answers not one question. RELEASE YOUR TAX RETURNS This trump press conference feel more like a mandatory school assembly than a press conference. Now Mrs Dillon will talk about businesses. What?! https://t.co/imG13iKvkd We are truly in the golden age of irony He wants us to know he is vindictive & it's working well4 him. Astonishing the people who r known 4 speaking out NOT speaking out. Crushing every time he says "friend of mine, great guy" you know that person is evil personified It's like watching a float in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. Pushing for Pussy Riot for the inauguration Now this press conference sounds like a spelling bee. EMOLUMENT. Can you use that in a sentence? Welp, sounds like Trump's press conference was mature and dignified and calmed the nerves of a unified and grateful nation. NOT! The "anti-Hollywood" candidate ended his press conference with his TV CATCHPHRASE. So if I'm ever Pres, I get to end with "What the deuce"? Lock him up This 🍊press conference is 🍌. He's unable to cogently put words together. This is the next dude? I literally have the TV on mute & scrolling thru Twitter rxns because to actually HEAR him spew the nonsense makes me physically uneasy. Trump is a chronic ORIGINATOR of fake news, such as Obama's birth certificate obsession/lunacy and all the other lies he tells w no regard 4 years. https://t.co/b73EZpnURb Modern politics is like Black Mirror written by George Orwell & directed by Oliver Stone. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Celebrity News & Photos       Share this slide:       MORE:

When Trump took to the podium, he also denounced the report, and spoke about election-related hacking, his proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and Obamacare, among other issues, before turning things over to Sheri Dillon, a lawyer who spoke at length about Trump’s business and conflicts of interest.