This is the CNN reporter that just got into a yelling match with Donald Trump
This is the CNN reporter that just got into a yelling match with Donald Trump
Donald Trump made CNN one of his favorite targets of media bashing during the election. At Wednesday's press conference, he took the opportunity to express his rage at one reporter in particular: Jim Acosta. Acosta is CNN's senior White House correspondent and was present at Trump's first press conference since winning the presidential election. Trump railed on CNN for publishing a story that claimed the president-elect had been briefed by leaders in the intelligence community on claims that Russia held sensitive information bout him. Trump vehemently denied the reports and attacked CNN and , leading to Acosta's attempt at asking a question. "Since you're attacking us, can you give us a question?" Acosta can be heard asking. Stunning moment: Trump spars with @cnn 's @Acosta as he tries to ask a question pic.twitter.com/KQI423cgvY — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017 "Not you, your organization is terrible," Trump fired back, then imploring Acosta "don't be rude" and adding "you are fake news." The press conference ended soon thereafter. A Bloomberg reporter in attendance tweeted that Acosta and Trump spokesperson Sean Spice got into a confrontation in the aftermath. Trump spokesman Sean Spicer after news conference confronted @Acosta , angrily pointing finger as he spoke. https://t.co/lNttm82MIy — Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) January 11, 2017 Acosta then appeared on CNN and said Spicer threatened to remove him from future press conferences if a similar episode happened. The night before the presser, CNN published a report claiming that leaders of the intelligence community had met with Trump and presented him with claims that Russia had sensitive information about Trump, and that Russian agents had been in contact with his campaign. That bombshell was quickly followed by an even bigger release. published documents that had been previously circulated to newsrooms that purportedly formed the basis of the briefing given to Trump. Included in the documents were allegations of collusion with the Russian government, as well as lurid tales about Trump. Acosta is a veteran journalist who worked for CBS News before moving to CNN. CNN promoted Acosta from national political correspondent to senior White House correspondent in August 2013 . Acosta noted on Twitter that an ABC reporter ended up asking what he had hoped to pose to the president-elect. Fortunately ABC's Cecilia Vega asked my question about whether any Trump associates contacted Russians. Trump said no. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) January 11, 2017

Donald Trump made CNN one of his favorite targets of media bashing during the election. At Wednesday's press conference, he took the opportunity to express his rage at one reporter in particular: Jim Acosta.

Acosta is CNN's senior White House correspondent and was present at Trump's first press conference since winning the presidential election. Trump railed on CNN for publishing a story that claimed the president-elect had been briefed by leaders in the intelligence community on claims that Russia held sensitive information bout him.

Trump vehemently denied the reports and attacked CNN and BuzzFeed, leading to Acosta's attempt at asking a question.

"Since you're attacking us, can you give us a question?" Acosta can be heard asking.

Stunning moment: Trump spars with @cnn's @Acosta as he tries to ask a question pic.twitter.com/KQI423cgvY — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017

"Not you, your organization is terrible," Trump fired back, then imploring Acosta "don't be rude" and adding "you are fake news."

The press conference ended soon thereafter. A Bloomberg reporter in attendance tweeted that Acosta and Trump spokesperson Sean Spice got into a confrontation in the aftermath.

Trump spokesman Sean Spicer after news conference confronted @Acosta, angrily pointing finger as he spoke. https://t.co/lNttm82MIy — Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) January 11, 2017

Acosta then appeared on CNN and said Spicer threatened to remove him from future press conferences if a similar episode happened.

The night before the presser, CNN published a report claiming that leaders of the intelligence community had met with Trump and presented him with claims that Russia had sensitive information about Trump, and that Russian agents had been in contact with his campaign.

That bombshell was quickly followed by an even bigger release. BuzzFeed News published documents that had been previously circulated to newsrooms that purportedly formed the basis of the briefing given to Trump. Included in the documents were allegations of collusion with the Russian government, as well as lurid tales about Trump.

Acosta is a veteran journalist who worked for CBS News before moving to CNN. CNN promoted Acosta from national political correspondent to senior White House correspondent in August 2013.

Acosta noted on Twitter that an ABC reporter ended up asking what he had hoped to pose to the president-elect.