Key Kardashian jewellery suspect was in cocaine smuggling ring with Saudi prince and Medellin drugs cartel
Key Kardashian jewellery suspect was in cocaine smuggling ring with Saudi prince and Medellin drugs cartel
ne of the suspected armed thieves in the Kim Kardashian jewellery heist is a "grandad gangster" linked to a vast cocaine smuggling ring involving a Saudi prince and the Medellin drugs cartel, prosecutors told the Telegraph on Wednesday. The revelation came as French police released the American reality TV star's driver along with the wife and son of one of the suspected thieves arrested in connection with the €9m (£8.6m) robbery in Paris. iven the perfect timing of the robbery, which took place on October 3 in the exclusive apartment block where Ms Kardashian had been staying while her bodyguard was out, police suspect it was an "inside job". The driver, Gary Madar, 27, was among 17 people seized in connection with the case on Monday , along with €2440,000 in cash. He had chauffeured Ms Kardashian back from a restaurant to her flat on the night of the robbery, and had taken her sister Kourtney and bodyguard to a nightclub. However, he was among three people released on Wednesday, leaving 14 still remanded in custody. Among them is the driver's brother, Michael Madar, 40, who works for the same livery company and who police believe has "direct links" to the prime suspects in the heist. mong those still under arrest are the five men believed to have robbed the 36 year-old star of of valuables that included her £3.5m engagement ring after tying her up in her apartment. CCTV caught some of the thieves calmly arriving and leaving the building on bikes, some disguised as police officers. The suspects range in age from 22 to 72. Among them is Didier Dubreucq, a convicted drug runner in his sixties and nicknamed "Blue Eyes". In 2003, Dubreucq was convicted to eight and a half years in prison for his role in a high-profile drug smuggling case involving Prince Nayef Bin Fawaz al-Shaalan, a grandson of Saudi Arabia's founding monarch, Abdulaziz. Prince Nayef was later sentenced to ten years in prison in absentia for using his diplomatic immunity to smuggle two tons of cocaine from Venezuela to France in his private Boeing 727 in 1999. The US Drug Enforcement Agency had accused the prince of making contacts with Colombia's Medellin cartel. The trial strained diplomatic relations between France and Saudi Arabia. Dubreucq was convicted for receiving the drugs at Le Bourget airport and helping distribute it around Europe. nother suspected Kardashian thief is Marceau B, a 64-year-old from the travelling community nicknamed "Scraped Nose". Europe 1 said he was implicated in a 2008 jewelry heist in which thieves masqueraded as police officers - the same tactic employed in the Kardashian robbery. In another trial for counterfeiting banknotes, he reportedly told the court that he lived off selling jewels to Belgian dealers. The Kardashian inquiry has led detectives to Antwerp in Belgium, a notorious hub for reselling stolen gems. ut prosecutors said they suspect the mastermind to be a 59-year-old Frenchman of Algerian descent nicknamed Omar Le Vieux (Omar the Old), whose two sons, aged 23 and 29, are also in custody. The oldest suspect under arrest is Pierre B, 72, known to police in counterfeit money cases and reportedly close to a notorious Marseille gangster called Tony Cossu, nicknamed "The Eel" for his jail breaking skills. As for the jewels themselves, a source close to the investigation told Le Figaro they had "in all likelihood been placed onto the market in the days following the theft".

Among those still under arrest are the five men believed to have robbed the 36 year-old star of of valuables that included her £3.5m engagement ring after tying her up in her apartment.

CCTV caught some of the thieves calmly arriving and leaving the building on bikes, some disguised as police officers.

The suspects range in age from 22 to 72.

Among them is Didier Dubreucq, a convicted drug runner in his sixties and nicknamed "Blue Eyes".

In 2003, Dubreucq was convicted to eight and a half years in prison for his role in a high-profile drug smuggling case involving Prince Nayef Bin Fawaz al-Shaalan, a grandson of Saudi Arabia's founding monarch, Abdulaziz.

Prince Nayef was later sentenced to ten years in prison in absentia for using his diplomatic immunity to smuggle two tons of cocaine from Venezuela to France in his private Boeing 727 in 1999.

The US Drug Enforcement Agency had accused the prince of making contacts with Colombia's Medellin cartel.

The trial strained diplomatic relations between France and Saudi Arabia.

Dubreucq was convicted for receiving the drugs at Le Bourget airport and helping distribute it around Europe.