Donald Trump addressed alleged lurid sexual acts by saying he's a 'germaphobe'
Donald Trump addressed alleged lurid sexual acts by saying he's a 'germaphobe'
Donald Trump has some news for everyone who showered him with pee jokes : he's a germaphobe. During the president elect's press conference at Trump Tower on Wednesday, Trump responded to BuzzFeed's publishing of an unverified intelligence dossier on Tuesday. The document made several shocking allegations about his close ties to the Russian government, along with one very disturbing claim that he hired prostitutes to participate in a sex act on a hotel bed. SEE ALSO: Twitter strikes comedy gold with stream of jokes over Trump report Among the accusations released in the dossier, Trump was said to have hired prostitutes for a "golden shower" party — which essentially is just a shower of urine — on a bed in a Moscow Ritz-Carlton Hotel. Report: Trump allegedly hired prostitutes for a “golden shower” party on Ritz Moscow bed where Obama/Michelle slept https://t.co/kkrva34ixT  pic.twitter.com/XtQCX0UxQt — Tom Namako (@TomNamako) January 10, 2017 Trump kicked off the press conference by swiftly denying the validity of the dossier, and though he couldn't bring himself to utter the word "pee," he did his best to assure America that specific portion of the document could not be true. Why? Because Trump hates germs, of course. HATES them! "Does anyone really believe that story?" he questioned before admitting, "I’m also very much of a germaphobe, by the way." "Believe me,” Trump said with a smirk that will probably haunt our dreams. Trump on *THAT* story in dossier: "I'm also very much a germaphobe" pic.twitter.com/g2KOenG0TS — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017 Twitter users swiftly responded to the Germaphobe in Chief's statement, with a great deal of skepticism and of course, more pee jokes. Urine is relatively sterile— Science https://t.co/P6sfKigQVg — Xeni Jardin (@xeni) January 11, 2017 Trump is a germaphobe. There. It's settled. #TrumpPressConference — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) January 11, 2017 LINCOLN: 4 score and 7 years ago FDR: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself TRUMP: I’m very much a germaphobe, when it comes to pee — Jason O. Gilbert (@gilbertjasono) January 11, 2017 If Trump is a germaphobe you'd think he'd be a little more careful about where he grabs women. #TrumpPressConference — David Nitzsche (@david_nitzsche) January 11, 2017 Trump"" I'm a germaphobe" Urine is sterile (Initially) #TrumpPressConference — Sterling_Plisken (@SterlingPliskin) January 11, 2017 things learned during The Presser: 1. hacking is bad 2. it shouldn't be done 3. trump is a germaphobe 4. — Mallorie Sullivan ✨ (@malloriesullivn) January 11, 2017 Trump IS a germaphobe, fyi. I've personally seen him recoil from shaking hands (not mine, obviously..) many times. — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017 'I'm very much a germaphobe' - Trump denies Watergate 2. 😂😂 — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017 Regardless of what the people on Twitter think, Trump went on to explain that he couldn't possibly be caught in a situation like this, because he's smarter than technology. You see, Trump believes there are hidden camera is every hotel room, and basically any other place you'd never imagine. "Be very careful, because in your hotel rooms and no matter where you go you’re going to probably have cameras," he warned. Hotel rooms have cameras! #TrumpPressConference  pic.twitter.com/LWTXjI4WCc — Donald J. Drumpf (@RealDonalDrumpf) January 11, 2017 He knows a lot about hidden camera's.  Maybe want to check Trump Towers if you book in there... — Peter Dexter (@PeterDexter2) January 11, 2017 "You have camera in the strangest places. Cameras that are so small — modern technology — you can’t see them and you won’t know," he said. Trump believes there are hidden cameras in hotels everywhere. pic.twitter.com/GdpvXOYBtg — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017 The president-elect brought his reflection to a close by offering us all some sage advice: "You better be careful or you’ll be watching yourself on nightly television." Thanks for the tip, Donald. BONUS: In stunning exchange, Trump refuses to answer reporter from CNN

Donald Trump has some news for everyone who showered him with pee jokes: he's a germaphobe.

During the president elect's press conference at Trump Tower on Wednesday, Trump responded to BuzzFeed's publishing of an unverified intelligence dossier on Tuesday. The document made several shocking allegations about his close ties to the Russian government, along with one very disturbing claim that he hired prostitutes to participate in a sex act on a hotel bed.

SEE ALSO: Twitter strikes comedy gold with stream of jokes over Trump report

Among the accusations released in the dossier, Trump was said to have hired prostitutes for a "golden shower" party — which essentially is just a shower of urine — on a bed in a Moscow Ritz-Carlton Hotel.

Report: Trump allegedly hired prostitutes for a “golden shower” party on Ritz Moscow bed where Obama/Michelle slepthttps://t.co/kkrva34ixT pic.twitter.com/XtQCX0UxQt — Tom Namako (@TomNamako) January 10, 2017

Trump kicked off the press conference by swiftly denying the validity of the dossier, and though he couldn't bring himself to utter the word "pee," he did his best to assure America that specific portion of the document could not be true.

Why? Because Trump hates germs, of course. HATES them!

"Does anyone really believe that story?" he questioned before admitting, "I’m also very much of a germaphobe, by the way."

"Believe me,” Trump said with a smirk that will probably haunt our dreams.

Trump on *THAT* story in dossier: "I'm also very much a germaphobe" pic.twitter.com/g2KOenG0TS — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017

Twitter users swiftly responded to the Germaphobe in Chief's statement, with a great deal of skepticism and of course, more pee jokes.

Urine is relatively sterile— Science https://t.co/P6sfKigQVg — Xeni Jardin (@xeni) January 11, 2017

Trump is a germaphobe.



There. It's settled.#TrumpPressConference — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) January 11, 2017

LINCOLN: 4 score and 7 years ago

FDR: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself

TRUMP: I’m very much a germaphobe, when it comes to pee — Jason O. Gilbert (@gilbertjasono) January 11, 2017

If Trump is a germaphobe you'd think he'd be a little more careful about where he grabs women. #TrumpPressConference — David Nitzsche (@david_nitzsche) January 11, 2017

things learned during The Presser:



1. hacking is bad

2. it shouldn't be done

3. trump is a germaphobe

4. — Mallorie Sullivan ✨ (@malloriesullivn) January 11, 2017

Trump IS a germaphobe, fyi.

I've personally seen him recoil from shaking hands (not mine, obviously..) many times. — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017

'I'm very much a germaphobe'

- Trump denies Watergate 2. 😂😂 — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017

Regardless of what the people on Twitter think, Trump went on to explain that he couldn't possibly be caught in a situation like this, because he's smarter than technology.

You see, Trump believes there are hidden camera is every hotel room, and basically any other place you'd never imagine.

"Be very careful, because in your hotel rooms and no matter where you go you’re going to probably have cameras," he warned.

He knows a lot about hidden camera's. Maybe want to check Trump Towers if you book in there... — Peter Dexter (@PeterDexter2) January 11, 2017

"You have camera in the strangest places. Cameras that are so small — modern technology — you can’t see them and you won’t know," he said.

Trump believes there are hidden cameras in hotels everywhere. pic.twitter.com/GdpvXOYBtg — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017

The president-elect brought his reflection to a close by offering us all some sage advice: "You better be careful or you’ll be watching yourself on nightly television."

Thanks for the tip, Donald.

Mashable reached out to The Trump Organization for comment on hotel camera policy.