Mnuchin to Divest Stakes in 43 Investments to Avoid Conflict
Mnuchin to Divest Stakes in 43 Investments to Avoid Conflict
Mnuchin Holds More than $50M in CIT Group: Disclosure U.S. Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, who would be among the richest men to hold the job this century, plans to divest his interests in 43 companies and investments to avoid conflicts. A 42-page disclosure report and five-page ethics agreement released Wednesday by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics showed Mnuchin’s assets and income included more than $50 million in CIT Group Inc. The filings show he holds $1 million to $5 million in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. common shares, more than $1 million in Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class A stock and as much as $1 million in shares of Blackstone Group LP. They are among the entities he plans to divest within 90 days of his confirmation, according to his ethics papers. The disclosure form reports a range of values for Mnuchin’s assets: $118.2 million to roughly $391.6 million. That range is limited by the fact that Mnuchin disclosed only minimum values for some of his stakes -- including his common shares in CIT. His net worth estimate is $620 million, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. OGE requires nominees to report sources of compensation above $5,000 in a year for the last two calendar years before filing. Other assets, income and retirement accounts are reported for the preceding calendar year. Close Scrutiny Should Mnuchin be confirmed, he will be among the most wealthy U.S. Treasury chiefs in recent years. Jacob J. Lew and Timothy Geithner, Mnuchin’s two immediate predecessors, each had assets between about $700,000 and $1.8 million just before they became Treasury secretaries, according to their financial disclosures in the years they took office. Henry Paulson, who served as Treasury Secretary from 2006-2009, amassed a fortune of more than $500 million in a career at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. And, before him, John Snow had assets of more than $75 million, their financial disclosures showed in the years they took office. Mnuchin is one of the titans of business tapped by President-elect Donald Trump whose financial disclosures will get close scrutiny during Senate confirmation hearings. No date has been set yet for Mnuchin’s hearing. While the 54-year-old former Goldman Sachs partner, who has no government experience, will rely on a Republican majority for support, he can expect resistance from Democrats over his deep roots in Wall Street. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called Mnuchin and several other Trump nominees “troublesome.” Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat and critic of Mnuchin, lauded the nominee for complying with ethics rules and pledging to resolve any conflicts. “At least on the question of getting yourself separated from your business interests,” Trump should follow Mnuchin’s example, Warren said in an interview with Bloomberg TV on Wednesday. The senator said she hadn’t yet read his filings. The financial disclosures, which Mnuchin signed Dec. 16, show that his income for 2016 was as much as $24 million, based on a calculation by Bloomberg. Mnuchin also owns a multi-million-dollar stake in a Willem de Kooning oil painting. Fannie, Freddie The disclosures reveal that Mnuchin may have benefited following his comments in a Nov. 30 interview that the government should exit control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The remarks sent shares of the mortgage-finance giants soaring. Mnuchin’s filings show he’s invested as much as $2 million in Paulson Advantage LP, which holds a stake in Fannie and Freddie. The Paulson Advantage holdings are among 43 investments that he has pledged to divest within 90 days of being confirmed. The value of the divestitures is more than $75 million, based on Bloomberg calculations. Read more: How Paulson lobbied for Fannie, Freddie in Washington Before or upon confirmation, in line with the financial disclosure requirements of federal workers, Mnuchin will disclose all assets of his fiancee as if they were married. Mnuchin is engaged to Scottish-born actress Louise Linton, who acted in films including “Cabin Fever” and wrote a memoir, “In Congo’s Shadow.”  Mnuchin’s ethics papers also say that within 120 days of confirmation, he plans to divest interests in Ratpac-Dune Entertainment Holdings LLC and he will have all cash accounts below the $250,000 limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. While he resigned as CIT Group director in December, he will now step down from a list of positions, including with Dune entities, Stormchaser Partners LLC and the Steven and Heather Mnuchin Foundation. He plans to retain an unpaid position as president of Steven T. Mnuchin Inc., a vehicle used to manage some of his investments. Relativity Stake Mnuchin reported income of at least $2 million from a stake in Relativity Holdings LLC, the movie studio where he briefly served as co-chairman before the company went bankrupt in 2015. The income is derived from the stake in a hedge fund he managed, and which invested in Relativity at the same time that he joined the board. The fund’s Relativity stake has little or no current value. Read more about Mnuchin’s relationship with a failed Hollywood studio In his disclosure, Mnuchin reported that he left the Relativity board in June 2015. This differs with the account given in securities filings by the current owner of Mnuchin’s OneWest Bank, which give Mnuchin’s departure date as May 29, 2015. The timing is significant because a major loan from his bank to Relativity was due May 30, and Relativity’s failure to pay the loan led OneWest to seize cash from the company and help tip it into bankruptcy.

U.S. Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, who would be among the richest men to hold the job this century, plans to divest his interests in 43 companies and investments to avoid conflicts.

A 42-page disclosure report and five-page ethics agreement released Wednesday by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics showed Mnuchin’s assets and income included more than $50 million in CIT Group Inc. The filings show he holds $1 million to $5 million in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. common shares, more than $1 million in Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class A stock and as much as $1 million in shares of Blackstone Group LP. They are among the entities he plans to divest within 90 days of his confirmation, according to his ethics papers.

The disclosure form reports a range of values for Mnuchin’s assets: $118.2 million to roughly $391.6 million. That range is limited by the fact that Mnuchin disclosed only minimum values for some of his stakes -- including his common shares in CIT. His net worth estimate is $620 million, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.

OGE requires nominees to report sources of compensation above $5,000 in a year for the last two calendar years before filing. Other assets, income and retirement accounts are reported for the preceding calendar year.

Close Scrutiny

Should Mnuchin be confirmed, he will be among the most wealthy U.S. Treasury chiefs in recent years. Jacob J. Lew and Timothy Geithner, Mnuchin’s two immediate predecessors, each had assets between about $700,000 and $1.8 million just before they became Treasury secretaries, according to their financial disclosures in the years they took office.

Henry Paulson, who served as Treasury Secretary from 2006-2009, amassed a fortune of more than $500 million in a career at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. And, before him, John Snow had assets of more than $75 million, their financial disclosures showed in the years they took office.

Mnuchin is one of the titans of business tapped by President-elect Donald Trump whose financial disclosures will get close scrutiny during Senate confirmation hearings. No date has been set yet for Mnuchin’s hearing. While the 54-year-old former Goldman Sachs partner, who has no government experience, will rely on a Republican majority for support, he can expect resistance from Democrats over his deep roots in Wall Street. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called Mnuchin and several other Trump nominees “troublesome.”

Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat and critic of Mnuchin, lauded the nominee for complying with ethics rules and pledging to resolve any conflicts. “At least on the question of getting yourself separated from your business interests,” Trump should follow Mnuchin’s example, Warren said in an interview with Bloomberg TV on Wednesday. The senator said she hadn’t yet read his filings.

The financial disclosures, which Mnuchin signed Dec. 16, show that his income for 2016 was as much as $24 million, based on a calculation by Bloomberg. Mnuchin also owns a multi-million-dollar stake in a Willem de Kooning oil painting.

Fannie, Freddie

The disclosures reveal that Mnuchin may have benefited following his comments in a Nov. 30 interview that the government should exit control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The remarks sent shares of the mortgage-finance giants soaring. Mnuchin’s filings show he’s invested as much as $2 million in Paulson Advantage LP, which holds a stake in Fannie and Freddie.

The Paulson Advantage holdings are among 43 investments that he has pledged to divest within 90 days of being confirmed. The value of the divestitures is more than $75 million, based on Bloomberg calculations.

Read more: How Paulson lobbied for Fannie, Freddie in Washington

Before or upon confirmation, in line with the financial disclosure requirements of federal workers, Mnuchin will disclose all assets of his fiancee as if they were married. Mnuchin is engaged to Scottish-born actress Louise Linton, who acted in films including “Cabin Fever” and wrote a memoir, “In Congo’s Shadow.”

Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email. Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter. Mnuchin’s ethics papers also say that within 120 days of confirmation, he plans to divest interests in Ratpac-Dune Entertainment Holdings LLC and he will have all cash accounts below the $250,000 limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. While he resigned as CIT Group director in December, he will now step down from a list of positions, including with Dune entities, Stormchaser Partners LLC and the Steven and Heather Mnuchin Foundation.

He plans to retain an unpaid position as president of Steven T. Mnuchin Inc., a vehicle used to manage some of his investments.

Relativity Stake

Mnuchin reported income of at least $2 million from a stake in Relativity Holdings LLC, the movie studio where he briefly served as co-chairman before the company went bankrupt in 2015. The income is derived from the stake in a hedge fund he managed, and which invested in Relativity at the same time that he joined the board. The fund’s Relativity stake has little or no current value.

Read more about Mnuchin’s relationship with a failed Hollywood studio

In his disclosure, Mnuchin reported that he left the Relativity board in June 2015. This differs with the account given in securities filings by the current owner of Mnuchin’s OneWest Bank, which give Mnuchin’s departure date as May 29, 2015. The timing is significant because a major loan from his bank to Relativity was due May 30, and Relativity’s failure to pay the loan led OneWest to seize cash from the company and help tip it into bankruptcy.