Rex Tillerson: Can the ExxonMobil boss with close ties to Russia overcome sceptics to become America's next secretary of state?
Rex Tillerson: Can the ExxonMobil boss with close ties to Russia overcome sceptics to become America's next secretary of state?
f there is one thing Boy Scout president Rex Tillerson knows, it’s how to navigate shark-infested waters. In his 41-year career at ExxonMobil , he steered the oil behemoth through some of the most testing territory imaginable – heading up deals in Yemen, in Thailand, in Iraq, and in Russia. He outwitted rivals such as BP and Shell, making Exxon the world's largest publicly-traded international oil and gas company. Yet as he faces his confirmation hearing on Wednesday, ahead of his appointment as secretary of state, Mr Tillerson will need to draw on all his undoubtable talent to convince a multitude of sceptics that he is the best man for the job. Of most concern is Mr Tillerson’s close ties to Russia – he is a personal friend of President Vladimir Putin and a motorbike-riding chum of Igor Sechin, Mr Putin’s much-feared right hand man, commonly referred to as “Darth Vader”. Of concern to others,...

If there is one thing Boy Scout president Rex Tillerson knows, it’s how to navigate shark-infested waters.

In his 41-year career at ExxonMobil, he steered the oil behemoth through some of the most testing territory imaginable – heading up deals in Yemen, in Thailand, in Iraq, and in Russia. He outwitted rivals such as BP and Shell, making Exxon the world's largest publicly-traded international oil and gas company.

Yet as he faces his confirmation hearing on Wednesday, ahead of his appointment as secretary of state, Mr Tillerson will need to draw on all his undoubtable talent to convince a multitude of sceptics that he is the best man for the job.

Of most concern is Mr Tillerson’s close ties to Russia – he is a personal friend of President Vladimir Putin and a motorbike-riding chum of Igor Sechin, Mr Putin’s much-feared right hand man, commonly referred to as “Darth Vader”.

Of concern to others,...