Loretta Lynn to Be Subject of New Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum Exhibit
Loretta Lynn to Be Subject of New Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum Exhibit
Loretta Lynn to Be Subject of New Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum Exhibit  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  As part of a weeklong rollout of new exhibition announcements, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville will reveal today that Loretta Lynn will be the subject of a major exhibit set to open Aug. 25.  Lynn, whose life story was told in the Oscar and Golden Globe-winning 1980 film , has been a member of the Hall of Fame since 1988. A three-time Grammy Award winner, she is a nominee again this year in the best country album category for her current set, . She has won eight Country Music Assn. Awards in her career, including entertainer of the year in 1972. Among the best-loved of her 16 No. 1 hits are “Coal Miner’s Daughter,” “Fist City” and “Don’t Come Home A’Drinkin’ (With Lovin’ on Your Mind).” “I am so happy the Country Music Hall of Fame has asked me to be one of their main exhibits in 2017 … gonna show off my 50-some-odd years in country music,” Lynn said in a statement provided to . “They best have a big space. I have a lot of stuff.” She added, “I’m so proud to share my life, and music with the Hall of Fame. Y’all come see us.” Her exhibit, featuring personal artifacts and career memorabilia, will remain open through June 2018.  Earlier in the week the museum announced upcoming exhibits centered around stars Jason Aldean (opening May 26) and Shania Twain (opening June 26). Additional exhibit subjects will be announced on Jan. 12 and 13 via the museum’s social media channels. The museum has turned the revelations of its new 2017 exhibits into a contest, teasing the featured stars on its social media pages the night before each is announced. Fans can like, comment and share their guesses, and four winners will be chosen at random to win a travel package to attend the VIP opening of an exhibit with a guest. One winner gets a lifetime membership to the museum. The Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary this year, has a collection of more than 2.5 million artifacts tracing the history of the genre. Additional special programs and concerts to mark the golden anniversary will be announced in the coming months  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

As part of a weeklong rollout of new exhibition announcements, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville will reveal today that Loretta Lynn will be the subject of a major exhibit set to open Aug. 25.



Lynn, whose life story was told in the Oscar and Golden Globe-winning 1980 film Coal Miner’s Daughter, has been a member of the Hall of Fame since 1988. A three-time Grammy Award winner, she is a nominee again this year in the best country album category for her current set, Full Circle. She has won eight Country Music Assn. Awards in her career, including entertainer of the year in 1972. Among the best-loved of her 16 No. 1 hits are “Coal Miner’s Daughter,” “Fist City” and “Don’t Come Home A’Drinkin’ (With Lovin’ on Your Mind).”

“I am so happy the Country Music Hall of Fame has asked me to be one of their main exhibits in 2017 … gonna show off my 50-some-odd years in country music,” Lynn said in a statement provided to Billboard. “They best have a big space. I have a lot of stuff.” She added, “I’m so proud to share my life, and music with the Hall of Fame. Y’all come see us.”

Her exhibit, featuring personal artifacts and career memorabilia, will remain open through June 2018.

Earlier in the week the museum announced upcoming exhibits centered around stars Jason Aldean (opening May 26) and Shania Twain (opening June 26). Additional exhibit subjects will be announced on Jan. 12 and 13 via the museum’s social media channels.

The museum has turned the revelations of its new 2017 exhibits into a contest, teasing the featured stars on its social media pages the night before each is announced. Fans can like, comment and share their guesses, and four winners will be chosen at random to win a travel package to attend the VIP opening of an exhibit with a guest. One winner gets a lifetime membership to the museum.

The Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary this year, has a collection of more than 2.5 million artifacts tracing the history of the genre. Additional special programs and concerts to mark the golden anniversary will be announced in the coming months