Dogs, rats and PROSTITUTES roam Brazil hospital where lepers look after themselves
Dogs and rats roam the corridors of leper colony in Brazil


Leprosy is sometimes thought of as a disease which has long ago been cured but in many parts of the world people are living with it every day and around 200,000 new cases are reported every year.

Curupaiti colony hospital in Rio de Janeiro is one such place, where the afflicted have been abandoned to their own devices by the Brazilian government.

Photographer Fabio Teixeira visited the hospital in Rio's Jacarepagua district - only five miles from the stadium where they hosted the Olympics last year - to take these amazing images.

He found the residents lacking doctors, hygiene, clothes hangers and even proper rooms.

Curupaiti Hospital in Rio de Janeiro was built in 1929 to house people infected with leprosy. Up until the 1980s lepers were forbidden from leaving. Those who have stayed since then simply have nowhere else to go

Leprosy primarily affects the skin and the peripheral nerves. It may also strike the eyes and the thin tissue lining the inside of the nose. The main symptom is disfiguring skin sores, lumps, or bumps

A leprosy patient takes a shower at Curupaiti hospital. The nerve damage inherent in the disease can lead to loss of feeling in the arms and legs and muscle weakness

Last year the Sunday Mirror reported that rats and dogs were spotted in the hospital's corridors and prostitutes often plied their trade there.

Leprosy, or Hansen's disease, is caused by a bacteria. India has the highest number of infections, followed by Brazil.

But despite the urban myth, leprosy is actually quite difficult to contract and it is estimated 95% of the world's population are naturally immune to the disease.

A leprosy suffered tries to remove one of the bandages from his leg. This picture was taken last year, shortly before President Dilma Rousseff (pictured on the poster) was ousted after being impeached for corruption

A leprosy patient in a wheelchair plays a mandolin at Curupaiti colony hospital in Rio. It is a myth that leprosy causes limbs to fall off. But sometimes patients suffer infections in their extremities and have to have limbs amputated

The hospital's problems have been exacerbated by Brazil's worst recession since the 1930s, which has hit funding

A leprosy patient holds a painting as he is in a wheelchair at Curupaiti colony hospital in Jacarepagua district of Rio de Janeiro. It has been largely was abandoned by the state government

The hospital was built in 1929 and is really starting to show its age. A spokesman for Rio de Janeiro's state health department said of Curupaiti: 'The unit's facilities undergo constant maintenance'

Many of the residents have lived in the hospital since they were diagnosed with leprosy as children

In October Marcelo Crivella, of the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, was elected as Mayor of Rio de Janeiro. But the hospital's budget is the responsibly of the state government, not the city

A leprosy sufferer washes his stump in one of the wet rooms at the hospital

Many of the residents remain proud and optimistic, despite worsening conditions with rats running free in the corridors

A leprosy sufferer smokes in the corridor outside his room. He has special shoes and a brace because the disease has made his leg weak

It is a common myth about leprosy that it makes your fingers and toes fall off. But some patients have lost all feeling in their extremities because of the nerve damage that comes with the disease

Faith in God, be it the conventional Catholic Church or newer evangelical cults, is strong in the hospital. This poster says (in Portuguese): 'Heart of Jesus. Bless this home!'

A leprosy patient sits in the corridor outside his room. Most of the prostitutes who were using the hospital have been evicted

Fabio Teixeira told Mail Online: 'I have been taking pictures at the hospital for the last year'

The patients - or residents - try to keep themselves clean to stave off the risk of infections

Conditions in the hospital are rudimentary at best and there are very few staff and no air conditioning to help with the stifling Brazilian heat and humidity

There were 2,000 leprosy sufferers living in the hospital at one point but that is currently down to about 400