Former Celtics Player Arrested for Alleged Breaking and Entering, Sexual Assault
Former Celtics Player Arrested for Alleged Breaking and Entering, Sexual Assault
Former NBA player Orien Green, a second-round draft selection of the Celtics in 2005, was arrested in Pembroke Pines, Florida on Monday after he allegedly broke into two homes and sexually assaulted a sleeping woman inside of one of them. According to , the 34-year-old Greene has subsequently been charged with two counts of felony burglary and misdemeanor battery. Police say Greene has admitted to breaking into the two homes, which are reportedly located in the same neighborhood as his girlfriend's house. According to reports, Greene entered the first home, which was unlocked at the time of the break-in, and walked into a bedroom where a woman was sleeping before eventually leaving the house. He then entered the second home, which was also unlocked, and walked into a bedroom where he sexually assaulted a woman who was sleeping. She reportedly woke up when Greene kissed her, and he fled the home and ran to his girlfriend's house where he was later arrested. Greene is currently being held on $300,000 bond. He will be required to wear an ankle monitor once he is released from police custody. For those who might not remember Greene, he played college basketball at the University of Florida and Louisiana-Lafayette before the Celtics picked him in the 2005 NBA Draft. He was waived by the team during his first season in the league and spent time with the Pacers, Kings, and Nets before leaving the NBA for good in 2011. Most recently, he signed a contract with the Venezuelan basketball team Guaros de Lara in late December.

Former NBA player Orien Green, a second-round draft selection of the Celtics in 2005, was arrested in Pembroke Pines, Florida on Monday after he allegedly broke into two homes and sexually assaulted a sleeping woman inside of one of them. According to WSVN 7 News, the 34-year-old Greene has subsequently been charged with two counts of felony burglary and misdemeanor battery.

Police say Greene has admitted to breaking into the two homes, which are reportedly located in the same neighborhood as his girlfriend's house. According to reports, Greene entered the first home, which was unlocked at the time of the break-in, and walked into a bedroom where a woman was sleeping before eventually leaving the house. He then entered the second home, which was also unlocked, and walked into a bedroom where he sexually assaulted a woman who was sleeping. She reportedly woke up when Greene kissed her, and he fled the home and ran to his girlfriend's house where he was later arrested.

Greene is currently being held on $300,000 bond. He will be required to wear an ankle monitor once he is released from police custody.

For those who might not remember Greene, he played college basketball at the University of Florida and Louisiana-Lafayette before the Celtics picked him in the 2005 NBA Draft. He was waived by the team during his first season in the league and spent time with the Pacers, Kings, and Nets before leaving the NBA for good in 2011. Most recently, he signed a contract with the Venezuelan basketball team Guaros de Lara in late December.