Shoe Thrown At Punjab CM Prakash Singh Badal During Election Rally + 5 Other Stories From Today
Shoe Thrown At Punjab CM Prakash Singh Badal During Election Rally + 5 Other Stories From Today
Shoe Thrown At Punjab CM Prakash Singh Badal During Election Rally + 5 Other Stories From Today A shoe was hurled at Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at a Sangat Darshan in Lambi during an election rally. According to reports, the shoe shattered the glass that Badal was holding in his hand. ANI news agency reported that police have detained one person related to the incident. Read more here. Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Rahul Says Demonetisation Made India's PM A Joke The World Over, Congress Will Bring #AcheDin Keeping up the heat on demonetisation issue, Rahul Gandhi today said that it is for the first time that India's Prime Minister is being "ridiculed the world over" for taking such an "ill-conceived" decision. Addressing Congress' 'Jan Vedna' meeting against note ban, the party Vice President said "achhe din" (good days) will come when Congress comes back to power at the Centre in 2019. "For the fist time India's Prime Minister is being ridiculed the world over..never before every single economist of any repute said that Prime Minister has taken an ill conceived decision," Rahul said, adding "demonetisation was a personal decision of the Prime Minister." Read more here 2. Bengaluru Man Is Turning Trash Into Art While Keeping India's Ancient Art Traditions Alive It started a few years ago when Raahul Khadaliya read an article about traditional block printers from Kutch, Gujarat, throwing their tools into the river.They were unable to keep up with the rising competition. Though the alternatives were cheaper, they didn't match the artisans' products in quality or detailing. In a small attempt towards preserving ancient crafts and traditions while being responsible about the way we produce goods, Raahul started Studio ABCD in 2011, a design company which also provides services and solutions to clients. Read more here 3. Demonetisation May Drag India's Growth Rate Down To 7% Warns World Bank, Says It's Still Robust The World Bank decelerated India's growth for 2016-17 fiscal to a "still robust" 7% from its previous estimate of 7.6% due to demonetisation but asserted that the country would regain momentum in the following years with 7.6 and 7.8% growth. "The immediate withdrawal of a large volume of currency in circulation and subsequent replacement with new notes announced by the government in November contributed to slowing growth in 2016," the World Bank said in its latest report. Read more here

BCCL/ File

A shoe was hurled at Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at a Sangat Darshan in Lambi during an election rally. According to reports, the shoe shattered the glass that Badal was holding in his hand.

ANI news agency reported that police have detained one person related to the incident. Read more here.

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Rahul Says Demonetisation Made India's PM A Joke The World Over, Congress Will Bring #AcheDin

BCCL

Keeping up the heat on demonetisation issue, Rahul Gandhi today said that it is for the first time that India's Prime Minister is being "ridiculed the world over" for taking such an "ill-conceived" decision. Addressing Congress' 'Jan Vedna' meeting against note ban, the party Vice President said "achhe din" (good days) will come when Congress comes back to power at the Centre in 2019.

"For the fist time India's Prime Minister is being ridiculed the world over..never before every single economist of any repute said that Prime Minister has taken an ill conceived decision," Rahul said, adding "demonetisation was a personal decision of the Prime Minister." Read more here

2. Bengaluru Man Is Turning Trash Into Art While Keeping India's Ancient Art Traditions Alive

abcd.co.in

It started a few years ago when Raahul Khadaliya read an article about traditional block printers from Kutch, Gujarat, throwing their tools into the river.They were unable to keep up with the rising competition. Though the alternatives were cheaper, they didn't match the artisans' products in quality or detailing.

In a small attempt towards preserving ancient crafts and traditions while being responsible about the way we produce goods, Raahul started Studio ABCD in 2011, a design company which also provides services and solutions to clients. Read more here

3. Demonetisation May Drag India's Growth Rate Down To 7% Warns World Bank, Says It's Still Robust

BCCL

The World Bank decelerated India's growth for 2016-17 fiscal to a "still robust" 7% from its previous estimate of 7.6% due to demonetisation but asserted that the country would regain momentum in the following years with 7.6 and 7.8% growth.

"The immediate withdrawal of a large volume of currency in circulation and subsequent replacement with new notes announced by the government in November contributed to slowing growth in 2016," the World Bank said in its latest report. Read more here

4. Bar Dance Not Art, It Is Vulgar, Derogatory And Promotes Obscenity, Maharashtra Govt Tells SC

BCCL/representational image

Holding that dance performances in bars are not an art form that needs to be promoted and protected, the Maharashtra government told the Supreme Court that such dances are "vulgar and derogatory", which need to be regulated to protect the honour and dignity of bar girls.

Justifying its decision to bring in a new law to put various restrictions on dance bar owners, the state told SC that in many cases, dance bars were being used to run prostitution rackets and it was duty-bound to curb such activities.

"The dances in question are not classical forms of dance. The girls...are not trained artistes. There is no art in their dance. Such dances have very limited entertainment value. In such a situation, the possibility of dances becoming obscene to attract customers is inherent," the government said in its affidavit filed in SC Read more here

5. 17-Year-Old Girl Stripped, Hair Cut-Off By Howrah-Jodhpur Express Passengers For Alleged Theft

i1os.com

A 17-year-old girl was stripped, humiliated and had her hair cut by passengers of the AC 3-tier compartment of the Howrah-Jodhpur Express after she was accused of stealing a bag. The girl's father, a daily-wage labourer said she was mentally unstable after she developed a brain tumour.

The girl, who according to her school-leaving certificate, is a minor at 17 years 10 months, was sent to jail on Tuesday after being produced in front of a local magistrate. Her family said police disregarded her age mentioned in the certificate and have on their own in the FIR put her age as 19 years. Read more here