3 Maned Wolf Pups Born at Little Rock Zoo
3 Maned Wolf Pups Born at Little Rock Zoo
Shares               Neither dogs nor foxes, two maned wolves with gorgeous red fur and live at the Little Rock Zoo are now proud parents. Three maned wolf pups were born at the zoo and announced today via Facebook. The triplet pups -- two females and one male -- were born Dec. 21 but won't be displayed in the exhibit for another six weeks, the zoo said. They can't walk and are too young to venture out of the den box, said Kate Barszczowski, carnivore keeper at the Little Rock Zoo. Two pups were named Rhett and Scarlet, inspired by the main characters in the classic " Gone With the Wind ," while the third was named Joy, the middle name of a zoo caretaker who has their same birthday. Visitors can catch an early glimpse of the 2-pound pups when their mother carries them into the exhibit in her mouth, Barszczowski told ABC News.   Right now, the pups spend the majority of their time being cared for by their mom, Gabby, while dad, Diego, stands guard. But Diego will be more involved as they get older, and the parents will raise them together as a family unit, the zoo said. Barszczowski described Gabby as "protective" and said that Diego will soon begin to start playing with the pups. "They will start walking in the next few weeks and will hopefully start playing," the zookeeper told ABC News, adding that they probably won't come out of the den box until the weather gets a little bit warmer.         Covered in black fur, the pups do not yet resemble their parents, Gabby and Diego, who the zoo describe as looking like "foxes on stilts" with their "thick red coats, tall erect ears, pointed muzzle and white-tipped tails." The maned wolves also have long, slender black legs. Adult maned wolves are neither foxes nor wolves, the zoo said, but are their own distinct species. They are native to South America and eat fruit, vegetables, small mammals, reptiles and amphibians, as well as birds and insects. Gabby and Diego have a penchant for bananas, the zoo said. Shares                  3 Maned Wolf Pups Born at Little Rock Zoo   Tom Brady Named MVP in Historic Super Bowl Win   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Apple, Google, Uber Join Fight Against Trump Travel Ban   2 States Say Allowing Travel Ban Would 'Unleash Chaos Again'   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Pence: Education Pick DeVos Will Be Confirmed With His Vote   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Despite White House Warning, Israel Pushes Settlement Bill   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   College Responds to Trump's Order With Refugee Scholarship   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   Melissa McCarthy Skewers Sean Spicer on 'SNL'

Neither dogs nor foxes, two maned wolves with gorgeous red fur and live at the Little Rock Zoo are now proud parents. Three maned wolf pups were born at the zoo and announced today via Facebook.

The triplet pups -- two females and one male -- were born Dec. 21 but won't be displayed in the exhibit for another six weeks, the zoo said. They can't walk and are too young to venture out of the den box, said Kate Barszczowski, carnivore keeper at the Little Rock Zoo.

Two pups were named Rhett and Scarlet, inspired by the main characters in the classic "Gone With the Wind," while the third was named Joy, the middle name of a zoo caretaker who has their same birthday.

Visitors can catch an early glimpse of the 2-pound pups when their mother carries them into the exhibit in her mouth, Barszczowski told ABC News.

Karen Caster/Little Rock Zoo

Right now, the pups spend the majority of their time being cared for by their mom, Gabby, while dad, Diego, stands guard. But Diego will be more involved as they get older, and the parents will raise them together as a family unit, the zoo said.

Barszczowski described Gabby as "protective" and said that Diego will soon begin to start playing with the pups.

"They will start walking in the next few weeks and will hopefully start playing," the zookeeper told ABC News, adding that they probably won't come out of the den box until the weather gets a little bit warmer.

Covered in black fur, the pups do not yet resemble their parents, Gabby and Diego, who the zoo describe as looking like "foxes on stilts" with their "thick red coats, tall erect ears, pointed muzzle and white-tipped tails." The maned wolves also have long, slender black legs.

Adult maned wolves are neither foxes nor wolves, the zoo said, but are their own distinct species. They are native to South America and eat fruit, vegetables, small mammals, reptiles and amphibians, as well as birds and insects. Gabby and Diego have a penchant for bananas, the zoo said.