Ivanka Announces She's Taking Leave of Absence From Trump Organization

Ivanka Announces She's Taking Leave of Absence From Trump Organization // // //  Ivanka Trump is formally taking a leave of absence from The Trump Organization. In a Facebook post , Ivanka said she will no longer be involved with the management or operations of her father's businesses or her eponymous apparel and accessories brand. She said she is moving her family to Washington, D.C., where her husband, Jared Kushner, will serve as senior advisor to the president. She said she will take time to focus on settling her three young children into their new home and schools. Here's the full text of Ivanka's post: When my father takes office as the 45th President of the United States of America, I will take a formal leave of absence from The Trump Organization and my eponymous apparel and accessories brand. I will no longer be involved with the management or operations of either company. I have appointed Abigail Klem as president to lead my brand. She will work with a board of trustees to manage the strategic and day-to-day operations of the business; I am confident that under her leadership the company will continue creating smart, solution-oriented product and content. My brothers will oversee The Trump Organization, and I know that in their capable hands the business will thrive. My husband, Jared, and I will be moving with our family to Washington, D.C., where Jared will serve as Senior Advisor to the President. I plan to take time to settle our three young children into their new home and schools. I'm grateful for the overwhelming amount of outreach I've received from people all across America who have shared their stories and offered to extend their ideas and expertise in the areas I am deeply passionate about, including the education and empowerment of women and girls; leveling the playing field for female entrepreneurs and job creators and unleashing the potential of women in the workplace. I am eager to hear more from them as I determine the most impactful and appropriate ways for me to serve our country. Let us know what you think in the comments.

Ivanka Trump is formally taking a leave of absence from The Trump Organization.

In a Facebook post, Ivanka said she will no longer be involved with the management or operations of her father's businesses or her eponymous apparel and accessories brand.

She said she is moving her family to Washington, D.C., where her husband, Jared Kushner, will serve as senior advisor to the president.

She said she will take time to focus on settling her three young children into their new home and schools.

Here's the full text of Ivanka's post:

When my father takes office as the 45th President of the United States of America, I will take a formal leave of absence from The Trump Organization and my eponymous apparel and accessories brand. I will no longer be involved with the management or operations of either company. I have appointed Abigail Klem as president to lead my brand. She will work with a board of trustees to manage the strategic and day-to-day operations of the business; I am confident that under her leadership the company will continue creating smart, solution-oriented product and content. My brothers will oversee The Trump Organization, and I know that in their capable hands the business will thrive. My husband, Jared, and I will be moving with our family to Washington, D.C., where Jared will serve as Senior Advisor to the President. I plan to take time to settle our three young children into their new home and schools. I'm grateful for the overwhelming amount of outreach I've received from people all across America who have shared their stories and offered to extend their ideas and expertise in the areas I am deeply passionate about, including the education and empowerment of women and girls; leveling the playing field for female entrepreneurs and job creators and unleashing the potential of women in the workplace. I am eager to hear more from them as I determine the most impactful and appropriate ways for me to serve our country.

Let us know what you think in the comments.

Trump at News Conference: New Report on Russia Ties Is 'Fake News'

Author: Colleges Using 'New Civics' Courses to Teach Left-Wing Activism

WARNING: Home Improvement Scams Targeting the Elderly