Trump to Reporter: 'It's Not a Fence, It's a Wall; We're Gonna Start Building'

Trump to Reporter: 'It's Not a Fence, It's a Wall; We're Gonna Start Building' // A reporter questioned President-elect Donald Trump this morning on who will be paying for the proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Trump pushed back on recent reports that U.S. taxpayers will have to foot the bill upfront, rather than Mexico. The president-elect first corrected the reporter, who referred to it as a "border fence." "It's not a fence, it's a wall. You just misreported it," he said. . @realDonaldTrump : "It's not a fence. It's a wall... We're going to build a wall." pic.twitter.com/HfYO7qx728 — Fox News (@FoxNews) January 11, 2017 Trump said negotiations with Mexico will begin immediately, but could take a year or more. He said VP-elect Mike Pence is leading the effort to obtain final approvals from Congress and various agencies so construction can begin. "I don't feel like waiting a year or a year-and-a-half. We're gonna start building," said Trump, promising that Mexico will eventually reimburse the U.S. for the cost of the wall. Trump said the Mexican government has been "so nice" and that he doesn't blame them for the situation along the border. Trump spoke today at his first news conference since being elected president. Watch more, here .

A reporter questioned President-elect Donald Trump this morning on who will be paying for the proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Trump pushed back on recent reports that U.S. taxpayers will have to foot the bill upfront, rather than Mexico.

The president-elect first corrected the reporter, who referred to it as a "border fence."

"It's not a fence, it's a wall. You just misreported it," he said.

.@realDonaldTrump: "It's not a fence. It's a wall... We're going to build a wall." pic.twitter.com/HfYO7qx728 — Fox News (@FoxNews) January 11, 2017

Trump said negotiations with Mexico will begin immediately, but could take a year or more. He said VP-elect Mike Pence is leading the effort to obtain final approvals from Congress and various agencies so construction can begin.

"I don't feel like waiting a year or a year-and-a-half. We're gonna start building," said Trump, promising that Mexico will eventually reimburse the U.S. for the cost of the wall.

Trump said the Mexican government has been "so nice" and that he doesn't blame them for the situation along the border.

Trump spoke today at his first news conference since being elected president. Watch more, here.

Trump's Attorney: Hotel Profits From Foreign Govts Will Be Donated to US Treasury

Larry Elder: President Obama's Legacy Is 'Donald J. Trump'

Now We Know Why Sasha Obama Skipped Dad's Farewell Address