Belgrade migrants wait for food in pictures similar to those from the Second World War
Freezing migrants wait for food in scenes resembling Second World War 


As the snow falls, a line of bitterly cold men shiver in a queue for rations.

It is a picture similar to those found in the archives of the Second World War – such as the 1943 image of German prisoners in Stalingrad.

But these photographs were taken in 2017 in the Serbian capital of Belgrade.

Migrants queue for food in front of an abandoned warehouse in Belgrade, Serbia. Special measures have been put in place across the country because of the freezing temperatures

This immigrant has already managed to get his hands on some fodd, which he is eating out in the freezing conditions food

Another is seen here washing his face. He is one of hundreds of migrants who are sleeping rough in parks and make-shift shelters in the Serbian capital

More of the immigrants can be seen wrapped up in thick layers as they stand and wait to be given their food

An Afghani migrant poses for a picture while wrapped up in a blanket inside the makeshift shelter at an abandoned warehouse

Huge piles of rubbish can be seen around this migrant as he washes his face in dirty water that has gathered on the concrete

Many of the tens of thousands of migrants arriving in Europe each year from Africa, the Middle East and Asia use the ‘Balkan route’ – which passes near Belgrade – to reach wealthier Western states, including Britain.

Eight people have died as sub-zero temperatures and heavy snow enveloped the region in recent days, while temperatures have dropped to -30C (-22F) in other parts of Europe.

At least 25 people died over the weekend – most of them in Poland.

Belgrade residents witnessed terrible scenes in the war, including heavy aerial bombardment by the Nazis in 1941, when it was part of Yugoslavia.

Several took up refuge inside a public garage, and hung sheets to minimise the effects of the the bitterly cold winds that blast in

More migrants warm themselves by the fire in front of the warehouse. Temperatures have dropped to -30C (-22F) in other parts of Europe

Another group huddle around the fire as they talk. Some of them can be seen already having their hands on some refreshments

This immigrant wraps himself up in a towel featuring the protagonist from the Disney Pixar film Finding Dory in order to keep himself warm

Many of the tens of thousands of migrants arriving in Europe each year from Africa, the Middle East and Asia use the ‘Balkan route’ – which passes near Belgrade – to reach wealthier Western states, including Britain

This shot shows just a small portion of the thousands of migrants who were queuing up outside the warehouse just to get some food

But the latest cold snap across eastern Europe threatens the lives of these desperate asylum seekers, with special measures being put in place across the continent.

In Serbia, shipping was banned on the River Sava because of icy conditions, which claimed another two lives in southern Serbia.

Authorities said an 88-year-old man and his son, 64, died from freezing temperatures in the village of Duga Poljana, in the south, which has been hardest-hit by the recent cold spell. Serbian state TV reported the two victims, discovered by a man delivering bread from a neighboring village, were extremely poor.

Several Serbian municipalities have declared emergency measures to battle the extreme weather and dozens of villages in the south have been cut off by high snowdrifts.

It is a picture similar to those found in the archives of the Second World War – such as this 1943 image of German prisoners in Stalingrad

Serbian, Croatian and Romanian police halted shipping at midday for an undetermined period along a 900-kilometer (565-mile) stretch of the Danube River.

In central town of Bulqize, temperatures plummeted to -22 C (-7.6 F), with most rural areas cut off by snow. There were temporary power and water outages. Army helicopters were distributing aid in remote mountain areas.

Following strong criticism from aid agencies and others, authorities on the Greek island of Lesbos said they would move 250 refugees from tents at camps into vacant hotel rooms as heavy snow continued unabated around the country.