Nona Hendryx, Wolf Eyes, 'Stranger Things' and More Set for Moogfest 2017
Nona Hendryx, Wolf Eyes, 'Stranger Things' and More Set for Moogfest 2017
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Nona Hendryx, Wolf Eyes, 'Stranger Things' and More Set for Moogfest 2017  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Moogfest's four-day, forward-thinking, tech-focused celebration of all things music, tech and art will return to Durham, North Carolina on May 18-21 this year with a typically-eclectic lineup in which all things are possible and no topic is off the table. Highlighting the initial lineup announcement is former Labelle singer and Talking Heads collaborator Nona Hendryx , performing with her wearable tech instruments; S U R V I V E members Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein performing music from their score; Detroit noise band Wolf Eyes presenting a workshop and conversation, co-presented by Trip Metal Festival; and two workshops by Brooklyn experimental label RVNG Intl co-presented by Portland dance duo Visible Cloaks (exploring "Japanese ambient synth and pop") and Canada's Syrinx. Once again, Moogfest is bringing back its Durationals, their term for three-to-four-hour installations of "pure sonic immersion... where anything can happen." That will be highlighted by an all night sleep concert led by Laraaji, presented by Stones Throw and Leaving Records, which the musician aims for those in attendance to "imagine their self in the present time of a sincere desire, dream vision being fulfilled," and will culminate in a "15-minute guided laughter meditation."  Other Durationals will include a collaboration between Yeah Yeah Yeahs guitarist Nick Zinner and producer The Haxan Cloak; a durational and time travel sound workshop by activist and poet Moor Mother and Portland's Synth Library; and one presented by Simian Mobile Disco producer Jas Shaw. The main themes of this year's fest: The Future of Creativity; Hacking Systems; Instrument Design; The Joyful Noise of STEAM; Protest; Sci-Fi Wishes and Utopian Dreams; Spatial Sound; Transhumanism; Techno-Shamanism.  To find out what the hell Techno-Shamanism means and to get all the details about this year's festival, check out Moogfest's site right here .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Moogfest's four-day, forward-thinking, tech-focused celebration of all things music, tech and art will return to Durham, North Carolina on May 18-21 this year with a typically-eclectic lineup in which all things are possible and no topic is off the table.

Highlighting the initial lineup announcement is former Labelle singer and Talking Heads collaborator Nona Hendryx, performing with her wearable tech instruments; S U R V I V E members Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein performing music from their Stranger Things score; Detroit noise band Wolf Eyes presenting a workshop and conversation, co-presented by Trip Metal Festival; and two workshops by Brooklyn experimental label RVNG Intl co-presented by Portland dance duo Visible Cloaks (exploring "Japanese ambient synth and pop") and Canada's Syrinx.

Once again, Moogfest is bringing back its Durationals, their term for three-to-four-hour installations of "pure sonic immersion... where anything can happen." That will be highlighted by an all night sleep concert led by Laraaji, presented by Stones Throw and Leaving Records, which the musician aims for those in attendance to "imagine their self in the present time of a sincere desire, dream vision being fulfilled," and will culminate in a "15-minute guided laughter meditation."

Other Durationals will include a collaboration between Yeah Yeah Yeahs guitarist Nick Zinner and producer The Haxan Cloak; a durational and time travel sound workshop by activist and poet Moor Mother and Portland's Synth Library; and one presented by Simian Mobile Disco producer Jas Shaw.

The main themes of this year's fest: The Future of Creativity; Hacking Systems; Instrument Design; The Joyful Noise of STEAM; Protest; Sci-Fi Wishes and Utopian Dreams; Spatial Sound; Transhumanism; Techno-Shamanism.

To find out what the hell Techno-Shamanism means and to get all the details about this year's festival, check out Moogfest's site right here.