Your News Feed will never be safe again: Facebook Live can now be broadcast from computers
Your News Feed will never be safe again: Facebook Live can now be broadcast from computers
For those who want to go live, the barrier for entry just got much smaller. In the latest of a line of thirsty moves to increase live video output, Facebook released its newest batch of Updates for Publishers today , tweaking the service's core functions and addressing some of the challenges publishers have faced to get their content up and running online. The biggest change: Facebook Pages will now have the ability to go live via web browser — and according to Facebook comments to , regular profiles will soon follow. Users everywhere will be able to broadcast live anywhere, anytime, from any device with an internet connection and a camera. SEE ALSO: People are gripped by this LAPD car chase streamed live on Facebook Until now, going live required either a phone running the Facebook app or, for publishers especially, specialized streaming camera rigs. With the update, Pages will have the option to broadcast directly via a laptop or desktop's webcam. Along with the browser update, Pages will also have the ability to designate "Live Contributors," essentially creating anchor roles for multiple people within an organization. Until now, only Page administrators could go live from an account, which caused many a logistics headache for media outlets. These updates came on the heels of the news that Facebook is finally monetizing its video content and the much longer announcement about the launch of the Facebook Journalism Project , which aims to save journalism, or something. While these are helpful tools for publishers looking to create content, the upcoming wider rollout of Live on browsers will give normal Facebook users even greater access to their friends' timelines. When asked, Facebook reps declined to provide any insight on when that rollout might happen. In some peoples' opinion , going live should be saved for only the most noteworthy moments. Just think about the ( slightly desperate ) ad campaign Facebook kicked off recently promoting the service — how " awesome " are you sitting at your desk in front of your webcam? Not awesome. Not awesome at all. But people will still use the tool, and all of our timelines will undoubtedly soon be filled with desk-bound self-help pep talks and angry rants from people we forgot we once knew. So for everyone desperate to dodge the deluge of Live broadcasts sure to bombard you with notifications as everyone realizes all they need to do is switch on their webcam, here's the magic sequence you'll need to stay sane: Settings > Notifications > On Facebook > Live Videos > Off. BONUS: The Obamas got real emotional at the president's farewell address

For those who really want to go live, the barrier for entry just got much smaller.

In the latest of a line of thirsty moves to increase live video output, Facebook released its newest batch of Updates for Publishers today, tweaking the service's core functions and addressing some of the challenges publishers have faced to get their content up and running online.

The biggest change: Facebook Pages will now have the ability to go live via web browser — and according to Facebook comments to Mashable, regular profiles will soon follow. Users everywhere will be able to broadcast live anywhere, anytime, from any device with an internet connection and a camera.

SEE ALSO: People are gripped by this LAPD car chase streamed live on Facebook

Until now, going live required either a phone running the Facebook app or, for publishers especially, specialized streaming camera rigs. With the update, Pages will have the option to broadcast directly via a laptop or desktop's webcam.

Along with the browser update, Pages will also have the ability to designate "Live Contributors," essentially creating anchor roles for multiple people within an organization. Until now, only Page administrators could go live from an account, which caused many a logistics headache for media outlets.

These updates came on the heels of the news that Facebook is finally monetizing its video content and the much longer announcement about the launch of the Facebook Journalism Project, which aims to dominate save journalism, or something.

While these are helpful tools for publishers looking to create content, the upcoming wider rollout of Live on browsers will give normal Facebook users even greater access to their friends' timelines. When asked, Facebook reps declined to provide any insight on when that rollout might happen.

In some peoples' opinion, going live should be saved for only the most noteworthy moments. Just think about the (slightly desperate) ad campaign Facebook kicked off recently promoting the service — how "awesome" are you sitting at your desk in front of your webcam?

Not awesome. Not awesome at all.

But people will still use the tool, and all of our timelines will undoubtedly soon be filled with desk-bound self-help pep talks and angry rants from people we forgot we once knew.

So for everyone desperate to dodge the deluge of Live broadcasts sure to bombard you with notifications as everyone realizes all they need to do is switch on their webcam, here's the magic sequence you'll need to stay sane: Settings > Notifications > On Facebook > Live Videos > Off.