GOP lawmaker suffers medical emergency near House floor

A freshman lawmaker was stricken near the House floor Wednesday night and was taken by ambulance from the Capitol. Rep. John Rutherford (R-Fla.) was treated by paramedics in the Republican cloakroom as the House voted around 6 p.m. Wednesday before he was carried out on a stretcher. Kelly Simpson, Rutherford’s chief of staff, said in a statement issued later Wednesday evening that Rutherford was “conscious, alert, and in good spirits.” He continues to be evaluated by doctors, she said. On Thursday, Simpson said Rutherford remained at a hospital “on his way to a full and swift recovery” following what she described as an “acute digestive flare up.” “On Wednesday evening, Congressman Rutherford experienced significant discomfort while just outside the House Chamber,” her statement continued. “Mr. Rutherford received medical attention and treatment in the Capitol before being transported to a local hospital for further evaluation. After ruling out more serious concerns, testing showed that he is experiencing an acute digestive flare up that is generating the discomfort. He did not suffer a heart attack as widely reported. In fact, doctors are happy to report that all of his vitals look great. “While he will briefly remain in the hospital to treat the inflammation, the Congressman’s care providers expect that he will be back to full strength in little time. John and his family are so grateful for the outpouring of prayers and support from friends and neighbors in Northeast Florida and colleagues here in Washington, and they salute the physicians, EMTs, and staff for their exceptional response.” Rutherford, 64, is a former county sheriff representing a district centering on Jacksonville. He was elected last year to succeed Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.), who was retiring.

A freshman lawmaker was stricken near the House floor Wednesday night and was taken by ambulance from the Capitol.

Rep. John Rutherford (R-Fla.) was treated by paramedics in the Republican cloakroom as the House voted around 6 p.m. Wednesday before he was carried out on a stretcher.

Kelly Simpson, Rutherford’s chief of staff, said in a statement issued later Wednesday evening that Rutherford was “conscious, alert, and in good spirits.” He continues to be evaluated by doctors, she said.

On Thursday, Simpson said Rutherford remained at a hospital “on his way to a full and swift recovery” following what she described as an “acute digestive flare up.”

“On Wednesday evening, Congressman Rutherford experienced significant discomfort while just outside the House Chamber,” her statement continued. “Mr. Rutherford received medical attention and treatment in the Capitol before being transported to a local hospital for further evaluation. After ruling out more serious concerns, testing showed that he is experiencing an acute digestive flare up that is generating the discomfort. He did not suffer a heart attack as widely reported. In fact, doctors are happy to report that all of his vitals look great.

“While he will briefly remain in the hospital to treat the inflammation, the Congressman’s care providers expect that he will be back to full strength in little time. John and his family are so grateful for the outpouring of prayers and support from friends and neighbors in Northeast Florida and colleagues here in Washington, and they salute the physicians, EMTs, and staff for their exceptional response.”

Rutherford, 64, is a former county sheriff representing a district centering on Jacksonville. He was elected last year to succeed Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.), who was retiring.

This article has been updated.