CISF Jawan Kills Four Colleagues After An Argument In Bihar's Aurangabad
CISF Jawan Kills Four Colleagues After An Argument In Bihar's Aurangabad
CISF Jawan Kills Four Colleagues After An Argument In Bihar's Aurangabad In a shocking incident, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Jawan today killed four of his colleagues in Bihar's Aurangabad. According to the reports, the Jawan had minor argument with his fellow Jawans and  he opened fire at them. Two of them died on the spot whereas the other two died in hospital during treatment. Although nothing has been confirmed about the real reason why and what forced Jawan to open fire at his own colleagues. The incident took place  at the Nabinagar power project in Aurangabad district, 175 km from Patna on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Balbir Singh. He has been arrested. According to reports,  the accused was tensed because he had sought leave that were not sanctioned. #UPDATE Bihar: 2 jawans injured after being shot by a CISF jawan succumb to injuries. Total 4 jawans have lost their lives. The CISF personnel, who lost their lives in this firing have been identified as head constables, Bacha Sharma, Amarnath Mishara, assistant sub inspector GS Ram and havildar, Arvind Ram. Though neither police nor CISF confirmed the identity of the deceased. Confirming the deaths, Aurangabad superintendent of police Satya Prakash said, “We are trying to get details of

In a shocking incident, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Jawan today killed four of his colleagues in Bihar's Aurangabad. According to the reports, the Jawan had minor argument with his fellow Jawans and he opened fire at them.

Two of them died on the spot whereas the other two died in hospital during treatment. Although nothing has been confirmed about the real reason why and what forced Jawan to open fire at his own colleagues.

IG taking stock of the situation ANI

The incident took place at the Nabinagar power project in Aurangabad district, 175 km from Patna on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Balbir Singh. He has been arrested. According to reports, the accused was tensed because he had sought leave that were not sanctioned.

#UPDATE Bihar: 2 jawans injured after being shot by a CISF jawan succumb to injuries. Total 4 jawans have lost their lives. — ANI (@ANI_news) January 12, 2017

The CISF personnel, who lost their lives in this firing have been identified as head constables, Bacha Sharma, Amarnath Mishara, assistant sub inspector GS Ram and havildar, Arvind Ram. Though neither police nor CISF confirmed the identity of the deceased. Confirming the deaths, Aurangabad superintendent of police Satya Prakash said, “We are trying to get details of