Snoop Dogg to Roast Anyone Who Performs at Trump's Inauguration
Snoop Dogg to Roast Anyone Who Performs at Trump's Inauguration
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Snoop Dogg to Roast Anyone Who Performs at Trump's Inauguration  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  People everywhere (including celebrities) are preparing for President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration next week in various ways, but Snoop Dogg may have the most unique one. Snoop announced -- prior to his Tanqueray Gin event, with whom he partnered in 2015 -- his plans to roast anyone who performs at Trump’s ceremony. “Which one of you jigaboo a-- n----s going to do it?” Snoop said in an Instagram video. “I’m waiting for you to do so I can roast the f--k out of you.”  For weeks the Trump camp has been fielding reports of being unable to secure high profile performers for his inauguration ceremony, which currently consists of Jackie Evancho , Big & Rich , and Cowboy Troy . This would not be the first time Snoop has made jokes at Trump’s expense. Snoop participated in the 2011 “The Comedy Central Roast of Donald Trump,” dropping jabs like, “Donald’s saying he wants to run for president and move into the White House. Why not?” said Snoop. “It wouldn’t be the first time you’ve pushed a black family out of their home.” Watch Snoop Dogg’s Instagram video and his part in the Comedy Central roast below. A video posted by snoopdogg (@snoopdogg) on   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

People everywhere (including celebrities) are preparing for President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration next week in various ways, but Snoop Dogg may have the most unique one.

Snoop announced -- prior to his Tanqueray Gin event, with whom he partnered in 2015 -- his plans to roast anyone who performs at Trump’s ceremony.

“Which one of you jigaboo a-- n----s going to do it?” Snoop said in an Instagram video. “I’m waiting for you to do so I can roast the f--k out of you.”

For weeks the Trump camp has been fielding reports of being unable to secure high profile performers for his inauguration ceremony, which currently consists of Jackie Evancho, Big & Rich, and Cowboy Troy.

This would not be the first time Snoop has made jokes at Trump’s expense. Snoop participated in the 2011 “The Comedy Central Roast of Donald Trump,” dropping jabs like, “Donald’s saying he wants to run for president and move into the White House. Why not?” said Snoop. “It wouldn’t be the first time you’ve pushed a black family out of their home.”

Watch Snoop Dogg’s Instagram video and his part in the Comedy Central roast below.