Adidas Is Revisting Its History to Make Its Next Great Sneaker
Adidas Is Revisting Its History to Make Its Next Great Sneaker
Adidas was in a bad place in the early '90s, much like it was a few years ago before it put Boost in its soles and made sneakers for Kanye West. The company nearly went bankrupt. It also decided to change the way it designed its shoes, thanks to Peter Moore , the designer behind the Air Jordan 1, who joined Adidas and started the brand's Equipment range. As he explained the line, it was "everything that's essential. Nothing that's not." It's now 2017 and Adidas is going back to 1991 and the start of the EQT line to create its next, soon-to-be hyped shoe. And it's a powerful source for the brand to draw from: Not only was it the time that it ditched the Trefoil logo for the modern logo associated with Adidas, the EQT was also a sneaker that had cultural value during the fall of the Berlin Wall . The EQTs came in a simple colorway of green, white, and black, and now Adidas is using this history and flipping it on its head. The 2017 EQT doesn't launch in the traditional color palette associated with the shoe, instead it's the polar opposite. Adidas looked to the opposite end of the color spectrum and replaced the green with Turbo Red. But one small, important detail changed, too. Adidas brought the Trefoil back to the EQT. It's a rethinking of the sneaker that's next up in Adidas Orginals' line of unearthed classics, and it's a step in a new direction.

Adidas was in a bad place in the early '90s, much like it was a few years ago before it put Boost in its soles and made sneakers for Kanye West. The company nearly went bankrupt. It also decided to change the way it designed its shoes, thanks to Peter Moore, the designer behind the Air Jordan 1, who joined Adidas and started the brand's Equipment range. As he explained the line, it was "everything that's essential. Nothing that's not."

It's now 2017 and Adidas is going back to 1991 and the start of the EQT line to create its next, soon-to-be hyped shoe. And it's a powerful source for the brand to draw from: Not only was it the time that it ditched the Trefoil logo for the modern logo associated with Adidas, the EQT was also a sneaker that had cultural value during the fall of the Berlin Wall.

The EQTs came in a simple colorway of green, white, and black, and now Adidas is using this history and flipping it on its head. The 2017 EQT doesn't launch in the traditional color palette associated with the shoe, instead it's the polar opposite. Adidas looked to the opposite end of the color spectrum and replaced the green with Turbo Red. But one small, important detail changed, too. Adidas brought the Trefoil back to the EQT. It's a rethinking of the sneaker that's next up in Adidas Orginals' line of unearthed classics, and it's a step in a new direction.