Blake Shelton to Perform at 2017 People's Choice Awards
Blake Shelton to Perform at 2017 People's Choice Awards
Blake Shelton to Perform at 2017 People's Choice Awards  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The 2017 People’s Choice Awards will have a strong country flavor. will perform at the show, which airs live Jan. 18 on CBS at 9 p.m. ET. “Blake Shelton is one of the greatest live performers of all time,” comments People’s Choice Awards executive producer Mark Burnett in a statement. “I love this guy and can’t wait for our global audience to watch his brilliance on stage.”  The country singer and star joins  (now as a foursome without ) as performers for the 2017 ceremony. Shelton is poised for a big night with nominations for favorite male artist, favorite album and favorite male country artist, a category he won in 2016 for his first-ever People’s Choice Award victory. Fan voting for the awards show has closed for most categories, but will remain open for favorite new TV comedy, favorite new TV drama and favorite year end blockbuster until show night. See and vote for the full list of nominees here . Joel McHale will host this year's event, which will be held at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. Shelton’s tour kicks off Feb. 16 at Rabobank Arena in Bakersfield, California.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Blake Shelton performs during the 2016 CMA Music Festival at Nissan Stadium on June 11, 2016 in Nashville, Tenn.

The 2017 People’s Choice Awards will have a strong country flavor.

Blake Shelton will perform at the show, which airs live Jan. 18 on CBS at 9 p.m. ET.

“Blake Shelton is one of the greatest live performers of all time,” comments People’s Choice Awards executive producer Mark Burnett in a statement. “I love this guy and can’t wait for our global audience to watch his brilliance on stage.”

The country singer and Voice star joins Fifth Harmony (now as a foursome without Camila Cabello) as performers for the 2017 ceremony.

Shelton is poised for a big night with nominations for favorite male artist, favorite album and favorite male country artist, a category he won in 2016 for his first-ever People’s Choice Award victory.

Fan voting for the awards show has closed for most categories, but will remain open for favorite new TV comedy, favorite new TV drama and favorite year end blockbuster until show night. See and vote for the full list of nominees here. Joel McHale will host this year's event, which will be held at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles.

Shelton’s Doing It To Country Sounds tour kicks off Feb. 16 at Rabobank Arena in Bakersfield, California.