May The Best VCs Please Stand Up: The Midas List 2017 Is Now Open For Submissions
May The Best VCs Please Stand Up: The Midas List 2017 Is Now Open For Submissions
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Konrad       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Baseline Ventures' Steve Anderson wrote Instagram's Kevin Systrom his first check for $250,000 in 2010. In 2012 when Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion, Anderson owned about 12% of the company. (Photo: Timothy Archibald for Forbes) Venture capitalists love to say that they live through the success of their founders. But a little recognition never hurt. The Midas List, the definitive ranking of the world's best technology investors, is now entering into its 16th year. That means more outsized exits , rags-to-riches tales and deep dives into the methods—and returns— of the very best in the VC business. Last year's list saw Sequoia Capital's Jim Goetz continue to rule the roost as Mary Meeker of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers became the highest-ranking woman ever and seed stage investors such as Steve Anderson and Chris Sacca solidified themselves at the top thanks to early bets on Instagram and Uber. With a bevvy of unicorns waiting at the gate to finally go public (or get acquired), they may find themselves surrounded by some new faces in 2017. FORBES partners each year with TrueBridge Capital Partners to apply a comprehensive formula to partners' returns across hundreds of funds. In 2016, we launched the Midas Submission Site to make the data submission process easier and more intuitive. We've got big things planned for 2017. If you think you or your investors have what it takes, as your handy destination for deadlines, a look at how FORBES and TrueBridge run our Midas model and the ability to download past years' lists. , firms can request a log-in through the site to submit their data directly online to our secure database. Firms that have submitted in the past will find their deals pre-populated into the system, requiring only any relevant updates. As always, FORBEs and TrueBridge are looking for deals that have exited in the past 5 years or not yet been fully realized. The submission deadline for Midas consideration is . The list will go live in . Be sure to check out the 2016 Midas List and our 2016 lander page to see our past coverage and what it takes to join the ranks of Sequoia , Benchmark and more. Have any questions or think you've got a story worth telling in this year's issue, even if you don't have Sacca's cowboy shirt ? Feel free to email the team at midas@forbes.com, list editor Alex Konrad at akonrad@forbes.com, and the kind folks at TrueBridge at midas@truebridgecapital.com. They can be reached by phone at 919-442-5201.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Venture capitalists love to say that they live through the success of their founders. But a little recognition never hurt.

The Midas List, the definitive ranking of the world's best technology investors, is now entering into its 16th year. That means more outsized exits, rags-to-riches tales and deep dives into the methods—and returns— of the very best in the VC business.

Last year's list saw Sequoia Capital's Jim Goetz continue to rule the roost as Mary Meeker of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers became the highest-ranking woman ever and seed stage investors such as Steve Anderson and Chris Sacca solidified themselves at the top thanks to early bets on Instagram and Uber. With a bevvy of unicorns waiting at the gate to finally go public (or get acquired), they may find themselves surrounded by some new faces in 2017.

FORBES partners each year with TrueBridge Capital Partners to apply a comprehensive formula to partners' returns across hundreds of funds. In 2016, we launched the Midas Submission Site to make the data submission process easier and more intuitive. We've got big things planned for 2017.

If you think you or your investors have what it takes, head over to submitmidasdata.com as your handy destination for deadlines, a look at how FORBES and TrueBridge run our Midas model and the ability to download past years' lists. New this year, firms can request a log-in through the site to submit their data directly online to our secure database. Firms that have submitted in the past will find their deals pre-populated into the system, requiring only any relevant updates. As always, FORBEs and TrueBridge are looking for deals that have exited in the past 5 years or not yet been fully realized.

The submission deadline for Midas consideration is Tuesday, January 31. The list will go live in April 2017.

Be sure to check out the 2016 Midas List and our 2016 lander page to see our past coverage and what it takes to join the ranks of Sequoia, Benchmark and more.

Have any questions or think you've got a story worth telling in this year's issue, even if you don't have Sacca's cowboy shirt? Feel free to email the team at midas@forbes.com, list editor Alex Konrad at akonrad@forbes.com, and the kind folks at TrueBridge at midas@truebridgecapital.com. They can be reached by phone at 919-442-5201.

Follow Alex on Forbes, Twitter and Facebook for more coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital.