ISIS Drowns Former Member In Shampoo Because He Called The Terrorist Group Dirty
ISIS Drowns Former Member In Shampoo Because He Called The Terrorist Group Dirty
ISIS Drowns Former Member In Shampoo Because He Called The Terrorist Group Dirty Members of Islamic State are known for the barbarity and there have been scores of incidents where they have released videos of killing innocent people and enemy soldiers mercilessly. This time, they have drowned a man in shampoo because he called IS dirty on a radio show. A former ISIS member in an interview with  a Mosul-based radio host said that he would buy a shampoo to clean himself from ISIS filth.  In response, ISIS promised to track the man down and kill him “measure for measure,” by drowning him in water mixed with shampoo. And, that is exactly what the group did. The video released by the group show the victim in typical orange prison jumpsuit is dunked into a large, clear box full of water. A masked ISIS adherent is then seen pouring shampoo into the water, followed by continued dunking of the victim.The video of 78 seconds long. Since its rise in 2013, ISIS has used several horrific and creative methods to kill the victims which include blowing up a the man with a backpack bomb and setting a Jordanian fighter pilot on fire in a metal cage. Mosul is currently under siege from the Iraqi Security Forces, supported by U.S. and Operation Inherent Resolve coalition air power. While the coalition has made progress in the city since invading in October.

Members of Islamic State are known for the barbarity and there have been scores of incidents where they have released videos of killing innocent people and enemy soldiers mercilessly. This time, they have drowned a man in shampoo because he called IS dirty on a radio show.

AFP

A former ISIS member in an interview with a Mosul-based radio host said that he would buy a shampoo to clean himself from ISIS filth. In response, ISIS promised to track the man down and kill him “measure for measure,” by drowning him in water mixed with shampoo.

And, that is exactly what the group did. The video released by the group show the victim in typical orange prison jumpsuit is dunked into a large, clear box full of water. A masked ISIS adherent is then seen pouring shampoo into the water, followed by continued dunking of the victim.The video of 78 seconds long.

ISIS

Since its rise in 2013, ISIS has used several horrific and creative methods to kill the victims which include blowing up a the man with a backpack bomb and setting a Jordanian fighter pilot on fire in a metal cage.

Mosul is currently under siege from the Iraqi Security Forces, supported by U.S. and Operation Inherent Resolve coalition air power. While the coalition has made progress in the city since invading in October.