Brawl Erupts in Turkey's Parliament Over Constitutional Reform
Brawl Erupts in Turkey's Parliament Over Constitutional Reform
Shares               Lawmakers from opposing parties in Turkey's general assembly clashed during a tense session on a controversial set of constitutional reforms on Thursday, with the physical confrontation being caught on video and posted to social media. The general assembly is in the midst of a two-week debate over proposed sweeping changes to the country's constitution that would give the president the power to appoint and dismiss government ministers, lead his own political party, propose budgets and declare states of emergency. The changes would also allow current president Recep Tayyip Erdogan to remain in office until 2029. The debate comes after weeks of tumult in Turkey that include a spate of terrorist attacks within its borders. The proposed changes are seen by many as a response to the failed coup in July that Erdogan has blamed on U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen.  Siyaset üretemeyen CHP Yüce Meclisin kürsüsünü isgal etti. Aziz Türk Milletinin vicdanina havale ediyoruz. #Anayasa  pic.twitter.com/bqiIwBfOmM  The botched coup set the stage for a sweeping purge of state institutions that has alarmed rights groups and Western governments. Despite the fight erupting, lawmakers approved several articles of the bill, Reuters reported. If passed, the government will submit the package of amendments to a referendum for a final approval — possibly in the spring.  Shares                  Brawl Erupts in Turkey's Parliament Over Constitutional Reform   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   6 Killed as Strong Quake Strikes Southern Philippines   Policeman Killed During Anti-Government Protests in Baghdad   Obama Hires Agency for Speaking Gigs, Lawyers for Book Deals   American Airlines Pilots Say CEO Should've Met With Trump   Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed   NYC Gallery Displays Migrants' Backpacks, Belongings   Ex-Knick Oakley Banned From MSG After Arrest   Detroit Tigers, Red Wings Owner Mike Ilitch Dies at Age 87   Trump Revives Voter Fraud Claims in Lunch With Senators   Residents Say 1st Atom Bomb Test Caused Cancer Cases   Illinois School Bus Overturns After Run-In With Van   Olympic Ghost Town: Bills Due, Venues Empty After Rio Games   NFL More Forceful on Texas 'Bathroom Bill' After Super Bowl   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others   Prince Harry's Girlfriend Makes Her Mark on Fashion World

Lawmakers from opposing parties in Turkey's general assembly clashed during a tense session on a controversial set of constitutional reforms on Thursday, with the physical confrontation being caught on video and posted to social media.

The general assembly is in the midst of a two-week debate over proposed sweeping changes to the country's constitution that would give the president the power to appoint and dismiss government ministers, lead his own political party, propose budgets and declare states of emergency.

The changes would also allow current president Recep Tayyip Erdogan to remain in office until 2029.

The debate comes after weeks of tumult in Turkey that include a spate of terrorist attacks within its borders. The proposed changes are seen by many as a response to the failed coup in July that Erdogan has blamed on U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen.

Siyaset üretemeyen CHP Yüce Meclisin kürsüsünü isgal etti. Aziz Türk Milletinin vicdanina havale ediyoruz. #Anayasa pic.twitter.com/bqiIwBfOmM — Ayse Kesir (@aysekesir) January 12, 2017

The botched coup set the stage for a sweeping purge of state institutions that has alarmed rights groups and Western governments.

Despite the fight erupting, lawmakers approved several articles of the bill, Reuters reported.

If passed, the government will submit the package of amendments to a referendum for a final approval — possibly in the spring.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.