Apple Sets Its Sights on Hollywood With Plans for Original Content
Apple Sets Its Sights on Hollywood With Plans for Original Content 
Biography Ben Fritz @benfritz ben.fritz@wsj.com Biography Tripp Mickle @trippmickle tripp.mickle@wsj.com Biography Hannah Karp hannah.karp@wsj.com Apple Inc. is planning to build a significant new business in original television shows and movies, according to people familiar with the matter, a move that could make it a bigger player in Hollywood and offset slowing sales of iPhones and iPads. These people said the programming would be available to subscribers of Apple’s $10-a-month streaming-music service, which has struggled to catch up to the larger Spotify AB. Apple Music... Most Popular Videos  ‘Fifty Shades Darker:’ Mainstream Erotica Returns to Cinema  Hundreds of Whales Swim Aground in New Zealand  The World's Biggest Political Brawls   NBA, Take-Two to Create Professional Videogame League    Iranians Vilify Trump in Rally Celebrating 1979 Revolution  Most Popular Articles      Trump Administration Begins Deportation Raids Across the U.S.        Mexicans Vow to Fight Trump by Jamming Courts        70-Fold Price Increase Puts Drug at $89,000        U.S., China Coordinated Policy Reversal        Resignation at Fed Will Help Trump Reshape Bank Rules

Technology giant Apple Inc. has been in talks with veteran Hollywood producers about buying rights to originally scripted television programs. The move could be transformative for Hollywood and help offset slowing sales for Apple. Photo: Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Apple Inc. is planning to build a significant new business in original television shows and movies, according to people familiar with the matter, a move that could make it a bigger player in Hollywood and offset slowing sales of iPhones and iPads.

These people said the programming would be available to subscribers of Apple’s $10-a-month streaming-music service, which has struggled to catch up to the larger Spotify AB. Apple Music...