Marco Rubio Won’t Commit to Voting for Rex Tillerson
Marco Rubio Won’t Commit to Voting for Rex Tillerson
■ Mr. Tillerson, the longtime chief of Exxon Mobil who had extensive business dealings in Russia, faced sharp questioning from Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, over his unwillingness to criticize President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. ■ The record of Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and the nominee for attorney general, came under attack from Representative John Lewis and Senator Cory Booker. ■ Elaine Chao had an easy glide in her hearing to be transportation secretary. Rex Tillerson's Confirmation Hearing The nominee for secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, drew scrutiny over his business ties with Russia and said he would not call its president, Vladimir V. Putin, a war criminal. A protesters shouting, “Senators be brave!” was led from the chamber.      Tillerson expresses reservations on climate change Though he has acknowledged that climate change exists, Mr. Tillerson said he did not view it as the imminent national security threat that some others did. He said some of the literature on the issue remained inconclusive — despite the overwhelming consensus of the scientific community about humans’ role. Rubio asks, ‘Is Vladimir Putin a war criminal?’ Mr. Tillerson took an assertive stance early, but senators, notably Mr. Rubio, challenged him to call the actions of Mr. Putin’s military in Aleppo, Syria, a war crime. Mr. Tillerson declined to do so. Advertisement Mr. Rubio set off on an aggressive line of questioning, initially posing a simple query: “Is Vladimir Putin a war criminal?” Advertisement “I would not use that term,” Mr. Tillerson said. Mr. Rubio, outlining a list of grievous Russian offenses in Syria, said he hoped Mr. Tillerson might adjust his answer. “Those are very, very serious charges to make, and I want to have much more information,” Mr. Tillerson said. Mr. Rubio, saying there was plenty of public information — “the videos and pictures are there,” he noted — said that “it should not be hard to say that Vladimir Putin’s military has conducted war crimes in Aleppo.” Mr. Tillerson did not budge. “I find it discouraging, your inability to cite that,” Mr. Rubio said. As the senator continued to cite the deaths of Mr. Putin’s opponents, Mr. Tillerson said he hoped to learn more once he could receive classified information on the matters. “None of this is classified, Mr. Tillerson,” Mr. Rubio shot back. “People are dead.” More questions, but no commitment, from Rubio Mr. Rubio, in his second round of questioning for Mr. Tillerson, pursued a similar tactic, asking Mr. Tillerson for his views on human rights violations in China and Saudi Arabia. He asked Mr. Tillerson if he believed China was “one of the world’s worst human rights violators.” Mr. Tillerson hedged. “They certainly have serious human rights violations,” he said. When Mr. Tillerson equivocated on Saudi Arabia as well and Mr. Rubio appeared prepared to chastise him again, Mr. Tillerson suggested that the two were not as far apart as it seemed. Advertisement “Our interests are not different, senator,” he said. “There seems to be some misunderstanding that somehow I see the world through a different lens. I do not.” But Mr. Tillerson said he was “also cleareyed and realistic about dealing in cultures” that are unlike that of the United States. Leaving the hearing after his third round of questioning, Mr. Rubio would not commit to supporting — or opposing — Mr. Tillerson, telling reporters that he was “prepared to do what’s right” even if fellow Republicans lined up behind Mr. Trump’s nominee. Tillerson favored arms for Ukraine Mr. Tillerson also told the committee that if he had been serving in office when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 , he would have recommended that the United States provide arms and intelligence support to the government of Ukraine, and said the Obama administration’s reaction was viewed in Moscow “as a weak response.” Mr. Tillerson’s prescription came in the opening two hours of his confirmation hearing, where he went out of his way to portray himself as a hard-liner in confronting Russia — an effort to defuse questions about his business relationships with Mr. Putin. But in doing so, he put himself in direct opposition to the position taken by Mr. Trump, who said in interviews with The New York Times last year that he doubted the utility of the sanctions the United States led against Russia. Tethered to Trump As the questioning wore on, some senators nodded at the lengthy — and, at times, rocky — proceedings. “I’m glad you came back after lunch, Mr. Tillerson,” joked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire. She thanked Mr. Tillerson for outlining his efforts to disentangle himself from Exxon Mobil while seeking a role in government. But she added that his approach “stands in stark contrast to what we heard from President-elect Trump today” about his own business conflicts, referring to the news that Mr. Trump will not divest himself of his business empire . Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Ms. Shaheen also asked Mr. Tillerson to weigh in on some of Mr. Trump’s most explosive campaign positions, like calls for a ban on Muslim immigration. Advertisement “I think what’s important is that we are able to make a judgment about the people coming into the country,” he said. “I’m not supporting blanket-type rejection of any particular group of people.” Pressed on Mr. Trump’s past calls for a national registry of Muslims, Mr. Tillerson said he “would need to have a lot more information around how such an approach would even be constructed.” Tillerson does not oppose T.P.P. Mr. Tillerson appeared to break, at least somewhat, with a signature campaign position of Mr. Trump: his vocal opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Mr. Tillerson said he did not oppose the agreement, but added that he shared some of Mr. Trump’s concerns about whether the final version “serves all of America’s interests.” C-suite and Foggy Bottom are different Senator Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, got to the key critique of Mr. Tillerson in an opening statement that challenged the nominee to explain what additional sanctions he would advocate against Russia for its interference in the 2016 presidential election and its activities in Syria. “Having a view from the C-Suite at Exxon is not at all the same as the view from the seventh floor of the Department of State,” Mr. Cardin said, referring to where the secretary’s office is. “And those who suggest that anyone who can run a successful business can, of course, run a government agency do a profound disservice to both.” Mr. Cardin argued that “serving the narrow market-driven interests of Exxon shareholders is not the same as serving the national interests of all of the American people.” And he challenged Mr. Tillerson to indicate whether he “may ignore Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, his illegal annexation of Crimea and his intervention in Syria,” all of which President-elect Trump indicated, in an interview with The Times, were not high on his list of concerns. Mr. Cardin added that he was “disappointed” that Mr. Tillerson’s prepared opening remarks included no mention of Russian hacking, adding that he also planned to press Mr. Tillerson on his prospective business conflicts. Advertisement A no on nuclear expansion Presented with Mr. Trump’s past suggestion that it might not be a bad thing if countries like Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia acquired nuclear weapons , Mr. Tillerson replied, “I don’t think anyone advocates for more nuclear weapons on the planet.” When Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, reminded him that Mr. Trump had in fact said this, Mr. Tillerson responded, “I do not agree.” Booker and Lewis testify against Sessions nomination Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, broke with tradition by testifying against the nomination of a fellow senator, but said Mr. Sessions’s record left him no choice. “In the choice between standing with Senate norms or standing up for what my conscience tells me is best for my country, I will always choose conscience and country,” Mr. Booker said. Mr. Booker issued a scathing rebuke of Mr. Sessions’ opposition to immigration and criminal justice reform, and laws protecting gays. “The next attorney general must bring hope and healing to the country,” he said, “and this demands a more courageous empathy than Senator Sessions’ record indicates.” Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, said Mr. Sessions’ mantra of “law and order” had a familiar, and negative, ring for African-Americans, particularly from the South. “Those who are committed to equal justice in our society wonder whether Senator Sessions’ call for law and order will mean today what it meant in Alabama when I was coming up back then,” said Mr. Lewis, who protested segregation alongside the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and was beaten severely during a march in Selma, Ala. “The rule of law was used to violate the human and civil rights of the poor, the dispossessed, people of color.” Advertisement Senatorial privilege The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, took a break from his chamber’s march toward passing the framework to repeal the Affordable Care Act on Wednesday to introduce his wife, Elaine Chao, and it was clear he was enjoying himself. Praising Ms. Chao as “incredibly capable,” Mr. McConnell cheekily endorsed Mr. Trump’s pick for transportation secretary. “She’s got really great judgment, on a whole variety of things,” he said. That tone continued during gentle questioning of Ms. Chao, with all indications pointing to an easy confirmation. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.       TRANSITION BRIEFING

Mr. Rubio set off on an aggressive line of questioning, initially posing a simple query: “Is Vladimir Putin a war criminal?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I would not use that term,” Mr. Tillerson said.

Mr. Rubio, outlining a list of grievous Russian offenses in Syria, said he hoped Mr. Tillerson might adjust his answer.

“Those are very, very serious charges to make, and I want to have much more information,” Mr. Tillerson said.

Mr. Rubio, saying there was plenty of public information — “the videos and pictures are there,” he noted — said that “it should not be hard to say that Vladimir Putin’s military has conducted war crimes in Aleppo.”

Mr. Tillerson did not budge.

“I find it discouraging, your inability to cite that,” Mr. Rubio said.

As the senator continued to cite the deaths of Mr. Putin’s opponents, Mr. Tillerson said he hoped to learn more once he could receive classified information on the matters.

“None of this is classified, Mr. Tillerson,” Mr. Rubio shot back. “People are dead.”

More questions, but no commitment, from Rubio

Photo

Mr. Rubio, in his second round of questioning for Mr. Tillerson, pursued a similar tactic, asking Mr. Tillerson for his views on human rights violations in China and Saudi Arabia.

He asked Mr. Tillerson if he believed China was “one of the world’s worst human rights violators.”

Mr. Tillerson hedged. “They certainly have serious human rights violations,” he said.

When Mr. Tillerson equivocated on Saudi Arabia as well and Mr. Rubio appeared prepared to chastise him again, Mr. Tillerson suggested that the two were not as far apart as it seemed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Our interests are not different, senator,” he said. “There seems to be some misunderstanding that somehow I see the world through a different lens. I do not.”

But Mr. Tillerson said he was “also cleareyed and realistic about dealing in cultures” that are unlike that of the United States.

Leaving the hearing after his third round of questioning, Mr. Rubio would not commit to supporting — or opposing — Mr. Tillerson, telling reporters that he was “prepared to do what’s right” even if fellow Republicans lined up behind Mr. Trump’s nominee.

Tillerson favored arms for Ukraine

Mr. Tillerson also told the committee that if he had been serving in office when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, he would have recommended that the United States provide arms and intelligence support to the government of Ukraine, and said the Obama administration’s reaction was viewed in Moscow “as a weak response.”

Mr. Tillerson’s prescription came in the opening two hours of his confirmation hearing, where he went out of his way to portray himself as a hard-liner in confronting Russia — an effort to defuse questions about his business relationships with Mr. Putin.

But in doing so, he put himself in direct opposition to the position taken by Mr. Trump, who said in interviews with The New York Times last year that he doubted the utility of the sanctions the United States led against Russia.

Tethered to Trump

As the questioning wore on, some senators nodded at the lengthy — and, at times, rocky — proceedings. “I’m glad you came back after lunch, Mr. Tillerson,” joked Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire.

She thanked Mr. Tillerson for outlining his efforts to disentangle himself from Exxon Mobil while seeking a role in government. But she added that his approach “stands in stark contrast to what we heard from President-elect Trump today” about his own business conflicts, referring to the news that Mr. Trump will not divest himself of his business empire.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Ms. Shaheen also asked Mr. Tillerson to weigh in on some of Mr. Trump’s most explosive campaign positions, like calls for a ban on Muslim immigration.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I think what’s important is that we are able to make a judgment about the people coming into the country,” he said. “I’m not supporting blanket-type rejection of any particular group of people.”

Pressed on Mr. Trump’s past calls for a national registry of Muslims, Mr. Tillerson said he “would need to have a lot more information around how such an approach would even be constructed.”

Tillerson does not oppose T.P.P.

Mr. Tillerson appeared to break, at least somewhat, with a signature campaign position of Mr. Trump: his vocal opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Mr. Tillerson said he did not oppose the agreement, but added that he shared some of Mr. Trump’s concerns about whether the final version “serves all of America’s interests.”

C-suite and Foggy Bottom are different

Photo

Senator Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, got to the key critique of Mr. Tillerson in an opening statement that challenged the nominee to explain what additional sanctions he would advocate against Russia for its interference in the 2016 presidential election and its activities in Syria.

“Having a view from the C-Suite at Exxon is not at all the same as the view from the seventh floor of the Department of State,” Mr. Cardin said, referring to where the secretary’s office is. “And those who suggest that anyone who can run a successful business can, of course, run a government agency do a profound disservice to both.”

Mr. Cardin argued that “serving the narrow market-driven interests of Exxon shareholders is not the same as serving the national interests of all of the American people.” And he challenged Mr. Tillerson to indicate whether he “may ignore Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, his illegal annexation of Crimea and his intervention in Syria,” all of which President-elect Trump indicated, in an interview with The Times, were not high on his list of concerns.

Mr. Cardin added that he was “disappointed” that Mr. Tillerson’s prepared opening remarks included no mention of Russian hacking, adding that he also planned to press Mr. Tillerson on his prospective business conflicts.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A no on nuclear expansion

Presented with Mr. Trump’s past suggestion that it might not be a bad thing if countries like Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia acquired nuclear weapons, Mr. Tillerson replied, “I don’t think anyone advocates for more nuclear weapons on the planet.”

When Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, reminded him that Mr. Trump had in fact said this, Mr. Tillerson responded, “I do not agree.”

Booker and Lewis testify against Sessions nomination

Photo

Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, broke with tradition by testifying against the nomination of a fellow senator, but said Mr. Sessions’s record left him no choice.

“In the choice between standing with Senate norms or standing up for what my conscience tells me is best for my country, I will always choose conscience and country,” Mr. Booker said.

Mr. Booker issued a scathing rebuke of Mr. Sessions’ opposition to immigration and criminal justice reform, and laws protecting gays.

“The next attorney general must bring hope and healing to the country,” he said, “and this demands a more courageous empathy than Senator Sessions’ record indicates.”

Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, said Mr. Sessions’ mantra of “law and order” had a familiar, and negative, ring for African-Americans, particularly from the South.

“Those who are committed to equal justice in our society wonder whether Senator Sessions’ call for law and order will mean today what it meant in Alabama when I was coming up back then,” said Mr. Lewis, who protested segregation alongside the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and was beaten severely during a march in Selma, Ala. “The rule of law was used to violate the human and civil rights of the poor, the dispossessed, people of color.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senatorial privilege

Photo

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, took a break from his chamber’s march toward passing the framework to repeal the Affordable Care Act on Wednesday to introduce his wife, Elaine Chao, and it was clear he was enjoying himself.

Praising Ms. Chao as “incredibly capable,” Mr. McConnell cheekily endorsed Mr. Trump’s pick for transportation secretary. “She’s got really great judgment, on a whole variety of things,” he said.

That tone continued during gentle questioning of Ms. Chao, with all indications pointing to an easy confirmation.