Donald Trump's approval rating is the lowest of any president-elect in two decades
Donald Trump's approval rating is the lowest of any president-elect in two decades
illionaire president-elect Donald Trump has the lowest approval rating of any recent president in the days awaiting his inauguration. Recent Gallup polling shows that just 48 per cent of Americans approve of the way Trump is handling his transition - the lowest figure in its polling history. Its figures only go back to 1992, when President-elect Bill Clinton had a 67 per cent approval rating. ccording to the Real Clear Politics' polling average , which looks at all the polls on the subject, Trump's approval rating stands at 41 per cent just eight days from becoming President. The controversial Republican lost the popular vote by 2.9m votes but managed to win certain key swing states in order to clinch the presidency. This may go some of the way to explain why his approval rating is 14 points lower than the outgoing President, Barack Obama. Obama's current approval rating is 55 per cent, compared to the average of 48 per cent across his eight-year term. Who approves of Trump's behaviour as President-elect? ne recent poll from the Quinnipiac University polling organisation put Trump's approval rating at just 37 per cent - lower than any recent president. Some 45 per cent of voters said that Trump will be a worse president than Barack Obama, while 34 per cent said he will be better, according to the Quinnipiac University Poll released on Tuesday . Tim Malloy, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said "President Barack Obama leaves the White House a lot more popular than Donald Trump is as he crosses the threshold and saddles up for the most important job in the world. "President-elect Trump gets points for strength and intelligence, but voters' feelings about his personality traits, empathy, leadership and level-headedness, are headed south." ery few demographic groups have positive approval ratings for Trump - with just Republicans and non-college education white people supporting him as he takes office. Democrats, non-white people and women are the groups most likely to disapprove, with 85 per cent, 69 per cent and 59 per cent of these groups telling the poll they disapprove of him, respectively. How does Trump compare to other presidents before they took office? According to Gallup , the last three presidents had approval ratings of at least 65 per cent during their presidential transitions - significantly higher than Trump's. Some 75 percent of America's approved of the way Obama handled his transition, while 65 per cent approved of Bush and 67 approved of Clinton. This compares to Trump, whose transition is approved of by 48 per cent of Americans - while another 48 per cent disapprove. ccording to Gallup, one key reason Trump's transition approval lags behind his predecessors' is because the opposition is far more critical of him. Whereas 17 per cent of Democrats approve of Trump's transition, the ratings for Obama and Bill Clinton among Republicans and for George W. Bush among Democrats were near 50 per cent. Gallup said: "Trump still has time to turn the tide and avoid starting his presidency with the lowest public support in Gallup's polling history, but that would largely entail gaining the support of independents and, in particular, Democrats - most of whom appear reluctant to back him." Trump won't have to face voters for four years now that he has been voted in, while some members of his party will be up for election in two years. What do Telegraph readers think of Trump? espondents to an online Telegraph poll conducted on 16 to 19 January were split almost equally on whether they were satisfied or dissatisfied with Trump becoming president. An analysis of the 30,000 responses - that are unweighted and random - shows that the majority of British Telegraph respondents thought Trump had performed unsuitably as president-elect, while the majority of American Telegraph voters thought the opposite. While most respondents said they were optimistic about no policy areas under Trump, the areas that did attract the most optimism were immigration and employment. On the other hand, climate change was the stand-out policy area that most respondents were worried about - with 28 per cent of voters opting for this choice. Two in five respondents said that they believed that Trump will be impeached in his first term - with most Brits selecting this option. The next most popular option was that he'd last for a full two terms of eight years, with a third selecting this option. This figure rose to half among American respondents.

Billionaire president-elect Donald Trump has the lowest approval rating of any recent president in the days awaiting his inauguration.

Recent Gallup polling shows that just 48 per cent of Americans approve of the way Trump is handling his transition - the lowest figure in its polling history.

Its figures only go back to 1992, when President-elect Bill Clinton had a 67 per cent approval rating.