PROMO: Exclusive—Jacob Latimore Is Pure Magic in the Thrilling Full Trailer for 'Sleight'
PROMO: Exclusive—Jacob Latimore Is Pure Magic in the Thrilling Full Trailer for 'Sleight'
Do you believe in magic? Well, even if you don’t, sometimes it just might be a person’s only hope. The official trailer for director J.D. Dillard’s anticipated debut —which premiered at last year’s Sundance Film Festival—has arrived, and we have the first look at the sci-fi thriller starring breakout actor and singer Jacob Latimore ( ). Latimore stars as Bo, a young street magician who, after the death of his parents, is left to care for his younger sister (Storm Reid). Suddenly in need of a lot more income, Bo turns to illegal activities, but quickly finds that he’s gotten in over his head. When his sister is kidnapped, Bo realizes he only has two things to rely on to try and get her back: his own brilliant mind, and as much magic as he can muster. , which also stars Dulé Hill ( ), Seychelle Gabriel ( ), Sasheer Zamata ( ) and Cameron Esposito, hits theaters April 7, 2017.  To learn more about the film, be sure to check out its Facebook page and follow along on Instagram .

Do you believe in magic? Well, even if you don’t, sometimes it just might be a person’s only hope.

The official trailer for director J.D. Dillard’s anticipated debut Sleight—which premiered at last year’s Sundance Film Festival—has arrived, and we have the first look at the sci-fi thriller starring breakout actor and singer Jacob Latimore (The Maze Runner, Collateral Beauty).

Latimore stars as Bo, a young street magician who, after the death of his parents, is left to care for his younger sister (Storm Reid). Suddenly in need of a lot more income, Bo turns to illegal activities, but quickly finds that he’s gotten in over his head. When his sister is kidnapped, Bo realizes he only has two things to rely on to try and get her back: his own brilliant mind, and as much magic as he can muster.

Sleight, which also stars Dulé Hill (Ballers), Seychelle Gabriel (Falling Skies), Sasheer Zamata (Saturday Night Live) and Cameron Esposito, hits theaters April 7, 2017. To learn more about the film, be sure to check out its Facebook page and follow along on Instagram.