CMO Today: Trump Clashes With CNN, BuzzFeed at Press Conference
CMO Today: Trump Clashes With CNN, BuzzFeed at Press Conference
Biography Steven Perlberg @perlberg steven.perlberg@wsj.com  : At his first post-election news conference, President-elect Donald Trump took aim at CNN and BuzzFeed for reporting on an intelligence document that contained unsubstantiated, explosive claims, The Wall Street Journal reports. Mr. Trump refused to call on CNN’s Jim Acosta, telling the reporter that “you’re fake news” and “your organization is terrible.” CNN reported Tuesday that intelligence agencies had included a two-page document in briefings for Mr. Trump and President Barack Obama that included claims that Russian operatives had compromising information about the president-elect. Later, BuzzFeed published the entire 35-page dossier (which WSJ reported was authored by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele ). Mr. Trump had harsher words for BuzzFeed, calling the site a “failing pile of garbage.” In a statement, CNN sought to distance itself from BuzzFeed, arguing its reporting was “vastly different” and more careful. In an interview on MSNBC on Wednesday night, BuzzFeed Editor in Chief Ben Smith defended the publication’s move to publish the documents .  : Apple is planning a big push into original television shows and movies , which would be available to subscribers of the company’s $10-a-month streaming-music service, WSJ reports. The company has been in talks with producers about buying the rights to series, as well as discussing with marketing executives how best to promote its content. Recall that Apple has long attempted to make a streaming TV rival, but discussions with content providers often hit a wall thanks to Apple’s hard-charging negotiating tactics . Still, Apple has made it clear that it has programming ambitions. ( It approached Time Warner about a possible merger , though the media giant ended up in AT&T’s embrace). Apple’s new programming push – executives have told people in Hollywood they hope to start offering original scripted content by the end of the year – isn’t likely to create a Netflix competitor just yet, but it does signal the company is expanding beyond its recent foray, a miniseries for Apple Music starring Dr. Dre .  : Facebook continued its push to establish better ties with media companies Wednesday, announcing a new initiative called the “Facebook Journalism Project,” WSJ reports. As part of the effort, Facebook said it will include publishers earlier in its product-development process, allowing them to weigh in on Facebook’s journalism tools as they are being created by the social giant. Facebook also said it would begin helping publishers generate revenue from videos, alluding to the recent news it will test mid-roll ads . Part of the project also appears to be geared to combating the perception that Facebook’s platform, particularly during the election campaign, facilitated the spread of misinformation. The company says it will work with a nonprofit to create a public service ad campaign about “news literacy.” The announcement comes days after Facebook said it hired Campbell Brown, a former CNN anchor and education-reform activist, to run its news partnerships unit .  : Media companies have viewed Instagram’s new Stories feature as a way to create Snapchat-like content without actually needing to be a part of Snapchat’s exclusive Discover platform. But as CMO Today reports, now that Instagram has rolled out advertising in Stories, publishers are hopeful the Facebook-owned app will begin to share ad revenue with them . Instagram wouldn’t comment on Stories’ business model, but as it stands now, the new ads are sold by the company and are full-screen vertical videos and static photos. Instagram says Stories now reaches 150 million people a day – the same number that Snapchat says use its platform on a daily basis. One publishing executive suggested Instagram could have introduced a monetization model for Stories that could put more pressure on Snapchat, which does split ad revenue with its Discover partners. But another suggested it would just be a matter of time before Instagram lets publishers get a cut from ads in Stories. Elsewhere President Obama’s speech Tuesday averaged about 23.8 million viewers from 9 to 9:30 p.m. The event was televised on multiple channels, with NBC receiving the biggest draw. [ Variety ] An internal memo at Omnicom’s Annalect armed staffers with talking points to bash the data and technology chops at WPP-owned rival GroupM. [ CMO Today ] More changes are coming to Publicis-owned creative agencies. Robert Senior, global chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, is stepping down. [ Campaign ] Former Business Insider COO Julie Hansen has been named U.S. CEO of Babbel, the German-based online language learning service. [ Forbes ] Are you ever watching a digital live-stream of TV content only to see blank slates instead of ads? Some logistical issues still affect streaming. [ Digiday ] Peter Thiel, who provided financial support for Hulk Hogan’s case that bankrupted Gawker, said he sees parallels between the wrestler’s victory and Donald Trump’s. [ NYT ] Bloomberg Businessweek has a deep dive into how Netflix is expanding globally by investing developing content suited for various local markets, using Brazil as its playbook. [ Bloomberg ] Alec Baldwin said “Trump himself is the head writer” for Mr. Baldwin’s “Saturday Night Live” parody. [ WSJ ] President Obama’s final TV interview as president will be with CBS’ “60 Minutes,” which will air an hourlong special Sunday. [ Variety ] After a strong start, ABC’s “Designated Survivor” has languished in the ratings, and the network’s president said it could signal viewers might have some politics fatigue. [ Entertainment Weekly ] About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @digitalshields , @VranicaWSJ , @JackMarshall , @perlberg , @alexbruell , @srabil , @asharma  Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .  Steven Perlberg at steven.perlberg@wsj.com      Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print   Social Impact of Exponentials  Harnessing exponential technologies for social change can allow organizations to help address pressing societal issues, build new markets, and attract top talent and consumers. CMOs can help drive their companies’ exponentials initiatives to support the philanthropic good and for more commercial purposes as well.  Please note: The Wall Street Journal News Department was not involved in the creation of the content above. Most Popular Videos  Violent UC Berkeley Protests Force Cancellation of Breitbart Writer's Talk  Lava Pours Steadily From Hawaii's Kilauea Volcano   New 'Bat Bot' Robot Flies Like a Bat    Opinion Journal: National Security Council Coup    Rex Tillerson Sworn In as U.S. Secretary of State  Most Popular Articles      White House Puts Iran ‘On Notice’ After Missile Launch        Is That Dog on Your Flight Really a Service Pet?        Trump’s Backers Want Action on Jobs, Taxes, Immigration        White House Takes On Working Visas        Trump Urges Senate GOP to Scrap 60-Vote Rule for Court Pick

Photo: Getty Images

TRUMP VS. MEDIA: At his first post-election news conference, President-elect Donald Trump took aim at CNN and BuzzFeed for reporting on an intelligence document that contained unsubstantiated, explosive claims, The Wall Street Journal reports. Mr. Trump refused to call on CNN’s Jim Acosta, telling the reporter that “you’re fake news” and “your organization is terrible.” CNN reported Tuesday that intelligence agencies had included a two-page document in briefings for Mr. Trump and President Barack Obama that included claims that Russian operatives had compromising information about the president-elect. Later, BuzzFeed published the entire 35-page dossier (which WSJ reported was authored by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele). Mr. Trump had harsher words for BuzzFeed, calling the site a “failing pile of garbage.” In a statement, CNN sought to distance itself from BuzzFeed, arguing its reporting was “vastly different” and more careful. In an interview on MSNBC on Wednesday night, BuzzFeed Editor in Chief Ben Smith defended the publication’s move to publish the documents.

APPLE ON SCREEN: Apple is planning a big push into original television shows and movies, which would be available to subscribers of the company’s $10-a-month streaming-music service, WSJ reports. The company has been in talks with producers about buying the rights to series, as well as discussing with marketing executives how best to promote its content. Recall that Apple has long attempted to make a streaming TV rival, but discussions with content providers often hit a wall thanks to Apple’s hard-charging negotiating tactics. Still, Apple has made it clear that it has programming ambitions. (It approached Time Warner about a possible merger, though the media giant ended up in AT&T’s embrace). Apple’s new programming push – executives have told people in Hollywood they hope to start offering original scripted content by the end of the year – isn’t likely to create a Netflix competitor just yet, but it does signal the company is expanding beyond its recent foray, a miniseries for Apple Music starring Dr. Dre.

FACEBOOK FRENEMIES: Facebook continued its push to establish better ties with media companies Wednesday, announcing a new initiative called the “Facebook Journalism Project,” WSJ reports. As part of the effort, Facebook said it will include publishers earlier in its product-development process, allowing them to weigh in on Facebook’s journalism tools as they are being created by the social giant. Facebook also said it would begin helping publishers generate revenue from videos, alluding to the recent news it will test mid-roll ads. Part of the project also appears to be geared to combating the perception that Facebook’s platform, particularly during the election campaign, facilitated the spread of misinformation. The company says it will work with a nonprofit to create a public service ad campaign about “news literacy.” The announcement comes days after Facebook said it hired Campbell Brown, a former CNN anchor and education-reform activist, to run its news partnerships unit.

NEW STORIES: Media companies have viewed Instagram’s new Stories feature as a way to create Snapchat-like content without actually needing to be a part of Snapchat’s exclusive Discover platform. But as CMO Today reports, now that Instagram has rolled out advertising in Stories, publishers are hopeful the Facebook-owned app will begin to share ad revenue with them. Instagram wouldn’t comment on Stories’ business model, but as it stands now, the new ads are sold by the company and are full-screen vertical videos and static photos. Instagram says Stories now reaches 150 million people a day – the same number that Snapchat says use its platform on a daily basis. One publishing executive suggested Instagram could have introduced a monetization model for Stories that could put more pressure on Snapchat, which does split ad revenue with its Discover partners. But another suggested it would just be a matter of time before Instagram lets publishers get a cut from ads in Stories.

Elsewhere

President Obama’s speech Tuesday averaged about 23.8 million viewers from 9 to 9:30 p.m. The event was televised on multiple channels, with NBC receiving the biggest draw. [Variety]

An internal memo at Omnicom’s Annalect armed staffers with talking points to bash the data and technology chops at WPP-owned rival GroupM. [CMO Today]

More changes are coming to Publicis-owned creative agencies. Robert Senior, global chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, is stepping down. [Campaign]

Former Business Insider COO Julie Hansen has been named U.S. CEO of Babbel, the German-based online language learning service. [Forbes]

Are you ever watching a digital live-stream of TV content only to see blank slates instead of ads? Some logistical issues still affect streaming. [Digiday]

Peter Thiel, who provided financial support for Hulk Hogan’s case that bankrupted Gawker, said he sees parallels between the wrestler’s victory and Donald Trump’s. [NYT]

Bloomberg Businessweek has a deep dive into how Netflix is expanding globally by investing developing content suited for various local markets, using Brazil as its playbook. [Bloomberg]

Alec Baldwin said “Trump himself is the head writer” for Mr. Baldwin’s “Saturday Night Live” parody. [WSJ]

President Obama’s final TV interview as president will be with CBS’ “60 Minutes,” which will air an hourlong special Sunday. [Variety]

After a strong start, ABC’s “Designated Survivor” has languished in the ratings, and the network’s president said it could signal viewers might have some politics fatigue. [Entertainment Weekly]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @digitalshields, @VranicaWSJ, @JackMarshall, @perlberg, @alexbruell, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Steven Perlberg at steven.perlberg@wsj.com