Moby says he'll DJ at Trump's inauguration under one condition
Moby says he'll DJ at Trump's inauguration under one condition
DJ Moby performs onstage during FYF Fest 2016 at Los Angeles Sports Arena on August 27, 2016 in Los Angeles.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Moby says he’ll perform at President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration under one condition, though it didn’t work when Alec Baldwin made the same request. The DJ says he was asked to play at the Inaugural Ball, and jokingly said that he will only take the offer if Trump releases his taxes. Rockette's objection to inauguration performance New York's Radio City Rockettes are scheduled to perform for Donald Trump's presidential inauguration. But one of them wrote on Instagram that sh... He wrote on Instagram, “Hahahahaha, I was just asked by a booking agent if I would consider djing at one of the inaugural balls for #trump... Hahahahaha, wait, Hahahaha, really? I guess I’d DJ at an inaugural ball if as payment #trump released his tax returns. Also I would probably play public enemy and stockhausen remixes to entertain the republicans. I’m still laughing. Hahahaha. So #trump what do you think, I DJ for you and you release your tax returns?” It is odd that Moby was asked to perform, since he has slammed the president-elect on social media. Even just the other day, the musician posted a side-by-side photo on Instagram of Trump next to King Joffrey from “Game of Thrones.” Moby was a vocal Hillary Clinton supporter.  Hahahahaha, I was just asked by a booking agent if I would consider djing at one of the inaugural balls for #trump... Hahahahaha, wait, Hahahaha, really? I guess I'd DJ at an inaugural ball if as payment #trump released his tax returns. Also I would probably play public enemy and stockhausen remixes to entertain the republicans. I'm still laughing. Hahahaha. So #trump what do you think, I DJ for you and you release your tax returns? A photo posted by moby XⓋX (@moby) on                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Andrea is an entertainment producer at CBSNews.com

Moby says he’ll perform at President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration under one condition, though it didn’t work when Alec Baldwin made the same request.

The DJ says he was asked to play at the Inaugural Ball, and jokingly said that he will only take the offer if Trump releases his taxes.

He wrote on Instagram, “Hahahahaha, I was just asked by a booking agent if I would consider djing at one of the inaugural balls for #trump... Hahahahaha, wait, Hahahaha, really? I guess I’d DJ at an inaugural ball if as payment #trump released his tax returns. Also I would probably play public enemy and stockhausen remixes to entertain the republicans. I’m still laughing. Hahahaha. So #trump what do you think, I DJ for you and you release your tax returns?”

It is odd that Moby was asked to perform, since he has slammed the president-elect on social media. Even just the other day, the musician posted a side-by-side photo on Instagram of Trump next to King Joffrey from “Game of Thrones.”

Moby was a vocal Hillary Clinton supporter.