Reliance Jio Begins Broadband Service With Insane Plan, Offers 100 MBPS Free For 3 Months!
Reliance Jio Begins Broadband Service With Insane Plan, Offers 100 MBPS Free For 3 Months!
Reliance Jio Begins Broadband Service With Insane Plan, Offers 100 MBPS Free For 3 Months! Reliance Jio Infocomm has reportedly started rolling out the Jio Fiber service or Fiber To The Home (FTTH) service in Mumbai. An India Today report said that there are some buildings in Mumbai where people can subscribe to the service, following the finishing the cable installation for the Jio Fibre, which began in November last year. Rushabh Vora, a resident in Rahul Building on Walkeshwar Roadthat building, Mumbai, told the publication that Jio has set up the Jio Fiber connectivity inside the building and that people are already using it. The service has also been rolled out in Nepeansea Road in Mumbai. Also Read: Reliance Jio May Soon Launch A Rs 1,000 4G Feature Phone With Video Calling For the first three months the service is free for users that are getting somewhere between 70mbps to 100mbps. The 4G entrant also has plans to roll out fiber to home wireline network in metro cities Pune, Delhi and Chennai. Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, while announcing the launch of 4G services last year, had said that fiber to home wireline service will push the power of data even further, and will offer data speeds up to 1 Gigabit per second. “This is on par with the most advanced wireline offerings anywhere in the world,” he had said. Also Read: Reliance Jio To Start Broadband Service, Will Offer 600 GB Free Internet At Just Rs 500! Jio’s plan is to progressively extend this network to to top 100 cities in India. The 4G entrant will also extend this optical fiber network to enterprise locations and will provide multi-gigabit per second enterprise-grade wireline data connections to enterprises in these cities. Jio is also partnering with some of the leading digital and Internet players in the world. “In many cases, we are working jointly to create first-of-its-kind solutions that are unique to the Indian market,” Ambani had said. Jio, which announced its commercial tariff plans on September 1, is also banking with on Wi-Fi services for data offloading purposes. It will also set up a million Wi-Fi hotspots across India by mid 2017. Also Read: Reliance Jio In Trouble Again For Their 'Promotional Offer' Which Exceeds 90-Day Limit The telco has also added additional Wi-Fi data in its plans to allow users to use broadband data in colleges, schools and public places. Jio is also in the process of connecting the majority of India's schools and colleges with Wi-Fi to provide broadband wireless data access to students in their classrooms.

Reliance Jio Infocomm has reportedly started rolling out the Jio Fiber service or Fiber To The Home (FTTH) service in Mumbai. An India Today report said that there are some buildings in Mumbai where people can subscribe to the service, following the finishing the cable installation for the Jio Fibre, which began in November last year.

AFP

Rushabh Vora, a resident in Rahul Building on Walkeshwar Roadthat building, Mumbai, told the publication that Jio has set up the Jio Fiber connectivity inside the building and that people are already using it. The service has also been rolled out in Nepeansea Road in Mumbai.

Also Read: Reliance Jio May Soon Launch A Rs 1,000 4G Feature Phone With Video Calling

For the first three months the service is free for users that are getting somewhere between 70mbps to 100mbps.

The 4G entrant also has plans to roll out fiber to home wireline network in metro cities Pune, Delhi and Chennai.

telecomtalk

Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, while announcing the launch of 4G services last year, had said that fiber to home wireline service will push the power of data even further, and will offer data speeds up to 1 Gigabit per second. “This is on par with the most advanced wireline offerings anywhere in the world,” he had said.

Also Read: Reliance Jio To Start Broadband Service, Will Offer 600 GB Free Internet At Just Rs 500!

Jio’s plan is to progressively extend this network to to top 100 cities in India. The 4G entrant will also extend this optical fiber network to enterprise locations and will provide multi-gigabit per second enterprise-grade wireline data connections to enterprises in these cities.

Jio is also partnering with some of the leading digital and Internet players in the world. “In many cases, we are working jointly to create first-of-its-kind solutions that are unique to the Indian market,” Ambani had said.

AP

Jio, which announced its commercial tariff plans on September 1, is also banking with on Wi-Fi services for data offloading purposes. It will also set up a million Wi-Fi hotspots across India by mid 2017.

Also Read: Reliance Jio In Trouble Again For Their 'Promotional Offer' Which Exceeds 90-Day Limit

The telco has also added additional Wi-Fi data in its plans to allow users to use broadband data in colleges, schools and public places. Jio is also in the process of connecting the majority of India's schools and colleges with Wi-Fi to provide broadband wireless data access to students in their classrooms.

4gsim

Vijay Jain, President and Business head –Fixed Line of Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio, recently quit from the position after a stint of around two years. At Jio, Jain was looking after the roll out of Fiber-to-the-Home (FTTH) that will complement the largest LTE rollout in India.

Also Read: No Freebies? No Problem! 85 Per Cent Of Jio Users Will Retain Service Even After Offers End!

Jain was also involved in the rolling out of Wi-Fi networks for the telecom operator across the country. He equipped around 1200 colleges in the country with Jio Wi-Fi. He also helped connect a number of homes with Jio’s 1 Gigabyte per second wireline service in some cities on trial basis.

Inputs From ET Telecom