India needs more doctors trained on heart transplant surgery after EIGHT potentially life-saving hearts are wasted
India needs more doctors trained to do heart transplant surgery 


At a time when India faces an acute shortage of human organs for transplant, at least eight hearts were 'wasted' across the country due to a lack of trained doctors.

While it is easier for doctors to retrieve organs like kidney and liver, only a handful of doctors in India have the expertise in retrieving the heart of a brain-dead patient.

But to overcome the crisis, the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) will be training surgeons in organ retrieval from brain dead patients.

At a time when India faces acute shortage of human organs for transplant, at least eight hearts were 'wasted' across the country due to a lack of trained doctors

According to NOTTO officials, Delhi has just a few doctors at AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max, Apollo and Medanta Hospitals, who are trained in carrying out such transplants.

The situation is worse in other states from where a large number of patients move to Delhi and Bengaluru for organ transplants.

During training, international faculty, senior surgeons and professors from top medical colleges of the world will give doctors lessons on organ retrieval.

Doctors performing heart surgery at Saket Max Hospital, in New Delhi,

'Last year, we lost about seven to eight hearts from brain dead patients as we lack experts in such surgeries.

'Retrieval of organs such as liver and kidney from a brain-dead patient is easier for Indian doctors, but retrieval of heart is still a challenge for many,' Dr Vimal Bhandari, director, NOTTO, told Mail Today.

'Many hospitals still sees lack of specialist surgeons, capable of recovering organs from brain dead patients, even when relatives of a deceased approve organ donation,' he said.

The development assumes significance as India is facing an acute shortage of kidney and heart donors.

According to statistics, nearly two lakh people need new kidneys in India every year, but only 10,000 patients get donors.

Around 1,000 kidney transplants are performed in Delhi every year.

Similarly, about 50,000 patients in the country need liver and heart transplant at any time, Bhandari said.

Open heart surgery is carried out on a baby at the Narayana Hrudayalaya Institue of Cardiac Sciences in Bangalore

For this, efforts are being taken to collect bodies which would be preserved safely in minus 20 degree Celsius temperature mortuary cabinets.

'In the first phase, eight to 10 bodies would be arranged and stored in minus 20 degree celsius mortuary cabinets,' Bhandari said.

'If all goes well, we are likely to start training in March at NOTTO or Ramaiah Medical College in Bengarulu,' he said, adding that about 50,000 doctors would be given training.

'We are definitely over-burdened with patients. In one year, AIIMS has been able to do only about 150 renal transplants, including living donors and cadaver.