Dave Chappelle, Jerry Seinfeld, and Jimmy Fallon Bid Farewell to Michelle Obama on 'Tonight Show'
Dave Chappelle, Jerry Seinfeld, and Jimmy Fallon Bid Farewell to Michelle Obama on 'Tonight Show'
Michelle Obama made her final appearance as First Lady on on Wednesday, joined by some certified all-time greats for a fitting sendoff ahead of next week's inauguration of a former reality TV host. Jerry Seinfeld , Dave Chappelle , and Stevie Wonder all popped in for the special episode dedicated entirely to the First Lady. Wonder, sounding predictably great, rocked a special medley of "Isn't She Lovely" and "My Cherie Amour" in Obama's honor: Related 'It Falls to Each of Us to Be Guardians of Our Democracy': President Obama's Moving Farewell Speech Michelle Obama Speaks to Young People During Final Speech as First Lady: 'Don't Be Afraid' Watch the Obamas Deliver Their Final Holiday Message as President and First Lady Obama told Fallon that the end of her family's time in the White House has been "surprisingly emotional" in unexpected ways, particularly doing her final speech last week. "Talking about kids, talking about the future," Obama said. "Kids are my heart... When I think about the fact that some of them are afraid of the future, of what is to come. I don't want them to be afraid. I want them to embrace the future and know the world is getting better. We have bumps in the road. We have ups and downs but I want our kids to move forward, I don't care where they come from, with strength and with hope. That touches me." Obama also confirmed plans to continue her work with her Reach Higher and Let's Move initiatives. "There's already, sort of, strategies happening," she told Fallon. "I will continue to stay involved with these issues as long as I live. I didn't take this on because I was a First Lady. I took this on because they meant something to me. Our kids' health, you know, the fact that we have really made big strides to change the health of our kids, especially through the school lunch program." Her advice to any and all successors? "We have to keep doing things that make sense for our future," Obama suggested. Peep damn near the entire episode above, which also included a heated round of "Catchphrase" with those aforementioned all-time greats.

Michelle Obama made her final appearance as First Lady on The Tonight Show on Wednesday, joined by some certified all-time greats for a fitting sendoff ahead of next week's inauguration of a former reality TV host. Jerry Seinfeld, Dave Chappelle, and Stevie Wonder all popped in for the special episode dedicated entirely to the First Lady. Wonder, sounding predictably great, rocked a special medley of "Isn't She Lovely" and "My Cherie Amour" in Obama's honor:

Obama told Fallon that the end of her family's time in the White House has been "surprisingly emotional" in unexpected ways, particularly doing her final speech last week. "Talking about kids, talking about the future," Obama said. "Kids are my heart... When I think about the fact that some of them are afraid of the future, of what is to come. I don't want them to be afraid. I want them to embrace the future and know the world is getting better. We have bumps in the road. We have ups and downs but I want our kids to move forward, I don't care where they come from, with strength and with hope. That touches me."

Obama also confirmed plans to continue her work with her Reach Higher and Let's Move initiatives. "There's already, sort of, strategies happening," she told Fallon. "I will continue to stay involved with these issues as long as I live. I didn't take this on because I was a First Lady. I took this on because they meant something to me. Our kids' health, you know, the fact that we have really made big strides to change the health of our kids, especially through the school lunch program." Her advice to any and all successors? "We have to keep doing things that make sense for our future," Obama suggested.

Peep damn near the entire episode above, which also included a heated round of "Catchphrase" with those aforementioned all-time greats.