Sunny Obama rides last week out with a bang, bites visitor on face
Sunny Obama rides last week out with a bang, bites visitor on face
While the rest of the Obama family takes a graceful approach to its final days in the White House, Sunny Obama is doing the opposite by biting a visitor on the face. As TMZ reports , Sunny, an otherwise adorable female Portuguese water dog, bit an 18-year-old White House guest's face on Monday when the visitor tried to pet the dog. SEE ALSO: President Obama settles ‘dog pants’ debate in swift decree TMZ says Ronny Jackson, the physician to the president, attended to the visitor's small injury, and determined that she would need stitches. Though she will be fine, the cut may leave a scar. A face scar with an amazing back story? We'd take it. Sunny is one half of the Obama family pets— Bo, a male Portuguese water dog, holds the title of First Dog. The Obamas adopted Bo in April 2009, and Sunny joined the family four years later in August 2013. While Sunny seems to be blowing it out for her final days as a presidential dog, her adopted parents President Barack and First Lady Michelle Obama have spent their last few days in office making everyone with a pulse cry. On Friday, the First Lady delivered her final address, while the President gave his final remarks on Tuesday. We've reached out to the White House for comment, and will update should we hear back. In the meantime, look at this photo of a toddler falling down after meeting Sunny in 2013: Image:  Charles Dharapak/ap photo BONUS: Michelle Obama tears up during final speech as First Lady

While the rest of the Obama family takes a graceful approach to its final days in the White House, Sunny Obama is doing the opposite by biting a visitor on the face.

As TMZ reports, Sunny, an otherwise adorable female Portuguese water dog, bit an 18-year-old White House guest's face on Monday when the visitor tried to pet the dog.

TMZ says Ronny Jackson, the physician to the president, attended to the visitor's small injury, and determined that she would need stitches. Though she will be fine, the cut may leave a scar.

A face scar with an amazing back story? We'd take it.

Sunny is one half of the Obama family pets— Bo, a male Portuguese water dog, holds the title of First Dog. The Obamas adopted Bo in April 2009, and Sunny joined the family four years later in August 2013.

While Sunny seems to be blowing it out for her final days as a presidential dog, her adopted parents President Barack and First Lady Michelle Obama have spent their last few days in office making everyone with a pulse cry. On Friday, the First Lady delivered her final address, while the President gave his final remarks on Tuesday.

We've reached out to the White House for comment, and will update should we hear back. In the meantime, look at this photo of a toddler falling down after meeting Sunny in 2013: