Fmr Clinton Spox: Comey Letter Was ‘Decisive’ Without It, ‘Hillary Clinton Would Be the 45th President’
Fmr Clinton Spox: Comey Letter Was 'Decisive' Without It, 'Hillary Clinton Would Be the 45th President' - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On Thursday’s broadcast of “MSNBC Live,” former Clinton campaign Press Secretary Brian Fallon argued that “if this election had been held ten days earlier, prior to the sending of Jim Comey’s letter, Hillary Clinton would be the 45th president of the United States.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER When asked how much of an impact James Comey’s letter had on the election, Fallon answered, “There is no question in my mind that it was decisive. Everything that has been said about errors that the campaign made is true and valid. Certainly, the campaign, if we had to do it all over again, would have spent a lot more time in Wisconsin and Michigan. I think there’s any number of tactical decisions that we would have made differently knowing what we know now. … But all of that being true, I still think, if this election had been held ten days earlier, prior to the sending of Jim Comey’s letter, Hillary Clinton would be the 45th president of the United States.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On Thursday’s broadcast of “MSNBC Live,” former Clinton campaign Press Secretary Brian Fallon argued that “if this election had been held ten days earlier, prior to the sending of Jim Comey’s letter, Hillary Clinton would be the 45th president of the United States.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

When asked how much of an impact James Comey’s letter had on the election, Fallon answered, “There is no question in my mind that it was decisive. Everything that has been said about errors that the campaign made is true and valid. Certainly, the campaign, if we had to do it all over again, would have spent a lot more time in Wisconsin and Michigan. I think there’s any number of tactical decisions that we would have made differently knowing what we know now. … But all of that being true, I still think, if this election had been held ten days earlier, prior to the sending of Jim Comey’s letter, Hillary Clinton would be the 45th president of the United States.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett