Hilarious tattoo fails show how things go badly wrong when the inker can't spell
Tattoo fails show how things go wrong when the inker can't spell


When thinking about getting a tattoo, people are often warned to think about how it might look when they're older and how it may be perceived at job interviews.

But one warning that seems to be overlooked is to make sure that the tattoo artist can spell before allowing them to get to work with the needle.

Hilariously tattoo fails have been sweeping Instagram, as people can't help poking fun at incorrect spellings and grammatical disasters.

Hilariously tattoo fails have been sweeping Instagram, as people can't help poking fun grammatical disasters and incorrect spellings, such as this man who ended up with 'fudge' instead of judge

A touching tribute to a lost loved one ended up being unintentionally hilarious after this woman made a bad choice of inker who couldn't spell heart

The motivational slogan to 'never give up' also fell rather flat after an unnecessary 'don't' was thrown in for good measure

One can only hope this woman got a refund after the tattooist inked 'waht' instead of what on her back

Yet another touching tribute to a parent that did not go quite as planned

One man who wanted to make a striking statement to his haters was no doubt disappointed when the message across his shoulders came out as: 'Only god can fudge me'.

The motivational slogan to 'never give up' also fell rather flat after an unnecessary 'don't' was thrown in for good measure.

Equally, a woman was no doubt asking for a refund for her inspirational slogan, which was inked on as: 'Stay strong no matter "waht" happens'

And a devoted son was surely fuming after he got a touching tribute to the woman who gave birth to him inked down his arm.

And a devoted son was surely fuming after the touching tribute to the woman who gave birth to him went badly wrong

Regret worked out just fine for another body art fan, but unfortunately the artist forgot the 't' in nothing (left). A touching tribute (right) lost its emotional impact with a rogue 'then'

This customer was no doubt unable to believe their eyes when they saw the results of their tattoo session

It would have been wise to check the dictionary before committing to having 'your next' permanently imprinted upon your knuckles.

His celebration of his mother turned from heartwarming to hilarious when the inker wrote: 'Thanks "mather for my life".'

Another man had 'no regrets' inked across his chest but was ironically left with lots of them after he realised he'd been permanently branded with 'no regrats'.

One body art fan wanted to commemorate their feelings for someone that transcend the family bond.

It's highly unlikely that anyone was jealous of this inking gone wrong (left). This supposedly cool tattoo ended up being the exact opposite (right)

Hopefully this statement was reassuring to the person who ended up with it on their forearm

A patriotic soul wanted to mention the ruler of their country in their tattoo, but unfortunately the person doing the inking couldn't spell 'reign'

But the message was rather less touching when it emerged as 'a love thicker "then" blood.'

Pity the individual who was no doubt unable to believe their eyes when they were left with a tattoo saying: 'Belife makes things real'.

Whether to use 'your' or 'you're' is a grammatical questions that can leave some people stumped.

But it's possibly best to double check which one to use before committing to having 'your next' permanently imprinted upon your knuckles.

Spelling the word regrets correctly seems to be a step too far for some

Isn't it ironic: This person wanted to boast about what they'd learned on the streets because they 'didet care about school'

What would Bon Jovi say? This person tried to pay tribute to one of their favourite songs, but didn't get it quite right