PROMO: Check Out the Video for the New Song “Man” From Last Night’s Episode of 'Star'!
PROMO: Check Out the Video for the New Song “Man” From Last Night’s Episode of 'Star'!
If you haven’t checked out Fox’s incredible new show , then you are really missing out—not just on what you should be watching, but what you should be hearing too. is an emotionally powerful drama that follows three talented singers, all of whom are running from their pasts and desperate for a new start. Armed only with their big skills and even bigger hopes for stardom, each tries to navigate the cutthroat music business in their own ways. Co-created by Lee Daniels—the mind behind the cultural phenomenon —and Tom Donaghy ( ), features an all-star cast that includes Queen Latifah, Benjamin Bratt and Lenny Kravitz, as well as an impressive group of rising young talent. The show also features some truly amazing original music and equally stunning performances of those fresh tracks. On the most recent episode, which aired last night, viewers were treated to one such new song, “Man.” Co-written by the one and only Prince Charlez—who has penned tunes for the likes of Rihanna, Usher, and Beyonce—“Man” definitely lives up to the kind of quality has already set a precedent for in its short tenure. You can check out the video for “Man” by clicking above. To hear more original tracks from incredible first season, you can download the EP  here . And be sure to tune in when the show airs Wednesday nights at 9 PM, only on Fox!

If you haven’t checked out Fox’s incredible new show Star, then you are really missing out—not just on what you should be watching, but what you should be hearing too.

Star is an emotionally powerful drama that follows three talented singers, all of whom are running from their pasts and desperate for a new start. Armed only with their big skills and even bigger hopes for stardom, each tries to navigate the cutthroat music business in their own ways.

Co-created by Lee Daniels—the mind behind the cultural phenomenon Empire—and Tom Donaghy (The Whole Truth), Star features an all-star cast that includes Queen Latifah, Benjamin Bratt and Lenny Kravitz, as well as an impressive group of rising young talent.

The show also features some truly amazing original music and equally stunning performances of those fresh tracks. On the most recent episode, which aired last night, viewers were treated to one such new song, “Man.” Co-written by the one and only Prince Charlez—who has penned tunes for the likes of Rihanna, Usher, and Beyonce—“Man” definitely lives up to the kind of quality Star has already set a precedent for in its short tenure.

You can check out the video for “Man” by clicking above. To hear more original tracks from Star’s incredible first season, you can download the EP STAR: The Premiere here. And be sure to tune in when the show airs Wednesday nights at 9 PM, only on Fox!