Spicer: CNN's Acosta Owes Trump Apology for 'Rude' Behavior at News Conference

Spicer: CNN's Acosta Owes Trump Apology for 'Rude' Behavior at News Conference // // // // The phrase, " You are fake news ," will be remembered as one of the main highlights from President-elect Donald Trump's first press conference since the election. And how exactly did we arrive at that now-famous phrase? We can thank CNN's Jim Acosta. We had a great News Conference at Trump Tower today. A couple of FAKE NEWS organizations were there but the people truly get what's going on — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2017 Incoming White House press secretary Sean Spicer joined "Fox and Friends" Thursday to discuss Acosta's behavior during the news conference, saying it was "unbecoming, disrespectful, rude and inappropriate" for Acosta to continuously beg the president-elect to let him ask a question. . @CNN is in a total meltdown with their FAKE NEWS because their ratings are tanking since election and their credibility will soon be gone! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2017 Acosta, CNN's senior White House correspondent, appeared later in the day on CNN saying Spicer threatened to remove him from the news conference if he continued to persist to ask a question. An unfortunate statement. Sean you know that you threatened to throw me out of that news conference if I asked another question. #realnews  https://t.co/T4dYXZbomd — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) January 12, 2017 I have covered 4 presidential campaigns. Democrats and Republicans. This has never happened. Let's deescalate, find a way to work together. https://t.co/wgNsXlwt4z — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) January 12, 2017 "I think Jim Acosta has a very, very false recollection of the facts," Spicer said, instead noting that he approached Acosta after the press conference and said if he exhibited that sort of behavior again in the future, he would in fact be removed. "I think he owes an apology to the president-elect, to his fellow members of the press corps and especially to Mara Liasson, who was doing her job to ask a question in a respectful, polite manner," Spicer said. "The idea that he feels entitled to ask a question is a bit preposterous." Spicer noted that this is not a Republican vs. Democrat issue. "I would be here saying the same thing if someone had addressed President Obama or President Clinton or any president that way," he said. Regardless of party, @acosta behavior was rude, inappropriate and disrespectful. He owes @realDonaldTrump and his colleagues an apology https://t.co/LnTkYam8IJ — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 12, 2017 When asked if Trump would refuse to answer future questions from CNN or BuzzFeed -- which released the initial unverified report claiming Trump's deep ties to Russia -- Spicer said Trump is the type of person who does not stand down from anyone. "If you look at how quick BuzzFeed's failing, I'm not sure they'll be around by the time we take office next week," he said. "Their trajectory downward is going rather quick." When you see the free fall of @BuzzFeed you realize why they have to focus on click bait pic.twitter.com/wTM93b9P0t — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 12, 2017 Tell us what you think of Spicer's remarks. CNN’s Jim @Acosta on covering the Trump presidency: “I’m going to do the news. We’re going to keep doing the news.” https://t.co/4yFBwCA5Kj  pic.twitter.com/TY35H7QY6i — CNN (@CNN) January 12, 2017

The phrase, "You are fake news," will be remembered as one of the main highlights from President-elect Donald Trump's first press conference since the election.

And how exactly did we arrive at that now-famous phrase? We can thank CNN's Jim Acosta.

We had a great News Conference at Trump Tower today. A couple of FAKE NEWS organizations were there but the people truly get what's going on — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2017

Incoming White House press secretary Sean Spicer joined "Fox and Friends" Thursday to discuss Acosta's behavior during the news conference, saying it was "unbecoming, disrespectful, rude and inappropriate" for Acosta to continuously beg the president-elect to let him ask a question.

.@CNN is in a total meltdown with their FAKE NEWS because their ratings are tanking since election and their credibility will soon be gone! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2017

Trump at News Conference: New Report on Russia Ties Is 'Fake News'

'You Are Fake News!': Trump Refuses to Let CNN Reporter Ask Question

Priebus: Unverified Report of Trump's Alleged Ties to Russia Is 'Complete Garbage'

Acosta, CNN's senior White House correspondent, appeared later in the day on CNN saying Spicer threatened to remove him from the news conference if he continued to persist to ask a question.

An unfortunate statement. Sean you know that you threatened to throw me out of that news conference if I asked another question. #realnews https://t.co/T4dYXZbomd — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) January 12, 2017

I have covered 4 presidential campaigns. Democrats and Republicans. This has never happened. Let's deescalate, find a way to work together. https://t.co/wgNsXlwt4z — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) January 12, 2017

"I think Jim Acosta has a very, very false recollection of the facts," Spicer said, instead noting that he approached Acosta after the press conference and said if he exhibited that sort of behavior again in the future, he would in fact be removed.

"I think he owes an apology to the president-elect, to his fellow members of the press corps and especially to Mara Liasson, who was doing her job to ask a question in a respectful, polite manner," Spicer said. "The idea that he feels entitled to ask a question is a bit preposterous."

Spicer noted that this is not a Republican vs. Democrat issue.

"I would be here saying the same thing if someone had addressed President Obama or President Clinton or any president that way," he said.

Regardless of party, @acosta behavior was rude, inappropriate and disrespectful. He owes @realDonaldTrump and his colleagues an apology https://t.co/LnTkYam8IJ — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 12, 2017

When asked if Trump would refuse to answer future questions from CNN or BuzzFeed -- which released the initial unverified report claiming Trump's deep ties to Russia -- Spicer said Trump is the type of person who does not stand down from anyone.

"If you look at how quick BuzzFeed's failing, I'm not sure they'll be around by the time we take office next week," he said. "Their trajectory downward is going rather quick."

When you see the free fall of @BuzzFeed you realize why they have to focus on click bait pic.twitter.com/wTM93b9P0t — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 12, 2017

Tell us what you think of Spicer's remarks.

CNN’s Jim @Acosta on covering the Trump presidency: “I’m going to do the news. We’re going to keep doing the news.” https://t.co/4yFBwCA5Kj pic.twitter.com/TY35H7QY6i — CNN (@CNN) January 12, 2017

Check out the latest updates from Fox News Channel on the Trump transition!

Palin Applauds 'Fearless Leader' Trump for Taking on 'Lying Lapdog Media'

FLASHBACK: NYT Reporter Asks Obama What Has Most 'Enchanted' Him About Being President

Hannity Praises Trump for 'Beatdown' of Mainstream Media at Presser