Billie Lourd Shares Sweet Throwback of Mom Carrie Fisher: Her Voice Will Forever Be in My Head and Heart
Billie Lourd Shares Sweet Throwback of Mom Carrie Fisher: Her Voice Will Forever Be in My Head and Heart
Billie Lourd is finding a new normal. Nearly a week after her mother, Carrie Fisher , was laid to rest alongside her grandmother, Debbie Reynolds , the actress, 24, is picking up the pieces. But on Jan. 12 she let her many well-wishers know she is hanging in there when she posted a touching throwback photo of herself with the icon. They’re in the back of a limo. Billie, who appears to be about 2 or 3, has on fuzzy bunny ears, and her mom is smiling brightly as she rests her head against her. “‘If my life weren’t funny then it would just be true and that is unacceptable,’” Lourd wrote, quoting her mother (and copying her mom’s signature use of emojis to spell out Fisher’s name). She added, “Finding the funny might take a while but I learned from the best and her voice will forever be in my head and in my heart.” Last Thursday, a service was held for Fisher at her famed L.A. estate , where Reynolds also resided. Lourd was supported there by her co-star and rumored boyfriend, Taylor Lautner . He was also by Lourd’s side the next day when Fisher’s urn, which was actually a giant Prozac pill (the actress and writer was always open about her struggle with bipolar disorder), was taken to Forest Lawn Memorial Park and buried alongside Reynolds, who died a day after her daughter. This is the second social media tribute Lourd has made to her mom. She also posted a throwback of all three generations and wrote , “Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist. There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me.”

Billie Lourd is finding a new normal.

Nearly a week after her mother, Carrie Fisher, was laid to rest alongside her grandmother, Debbie Reynolds, the Scream Queens actress, 24, is picking up the pieces. But on Jan. 12 she let her many well-wishers know she is hanging in there when she posted a touching throwback photo of herself with the Star Wars icon. They’re in the back of a limo. Billie, who appears to be about 2 or 3, has on fuzzy bunny ears, and her mom is smiling brightly as she rests her head against her.





“‘If my life weren’t funny then it would just be true and that is unacceptable,’” Lourd wrote, quoting her mother (and copying her mom’s signature use of emojis to spell out Fisher’s name). She added, “Finding the funny might take a while but I learned from the best and her voice will forever be in my head and in my heart.”

Last Thursday, a service was held for Fisher at her famed L.A. estate, where Reynolds also resided. Lourd was supported there by her Scream Queens co-star and rumored boyfriend, Taylor Lautner. He was also by Lourd’s side the next day when Fisher’s urn, which was actually a giant Prozac pill (the actress and writer was always open about her struggle with bipolar disorder), was taken to Forest Lawn Memorial Park and buried alongside Reynolds, who died a day after her daughter.

This is the second social media tribute Lourd has made to her mom. She also posted a throwback of all three generations and wrote, “Receiving all of your prayers and kind words over the past week has given me strength during a time I thought strength could not exist. There are no words to express how much I will miss my Abadaba and my one and only Momby. Your love and support means the world to me.”



