Quad City's Adam Vay Knocks Out Cincinnati's Michael Houser in ECHL Goalie Fight
Quad City's Adam Vay Knocks Out Cincinnati's Michael Houser in ECHL Goalie Fight
Goalie fight KO. Cincinnati was on the losing end.. @CincyCyclones https://t.co/Giwu8LIbxU Deemed unacceptable behavior in most other forums, fighting is encouraged in hockey for some reason, so here's a video in which an adult punches another adult at work. Tensions mounted during Wednesday's ECHL game between the Quad City Mallards and the Cincinnati Cyclones. They reached a boiling point when opposing goalies Adam Vay and Michael Houser removed their masks and skated to center ice to trade fists. Per Bobby Metcalf of the , Mallards head coach Terry Ruskowski described the scene leading up to the altercation: It got a little spirited. I'd think frustration was probably building up and one thing led to another. Somebody hit our defenseman hard behind the net and Vay just went after him. I don't like the situation but you have to have some sort of spirit or jump and everybody is flat right now. Vay got the better of the exchange, knocking out Houser with a two-strike combo. Violence, however, doesn't put points on the scoreboard, and Houser's Cyclones earned the 3-2 victory. [ Patrick Riley , h/t Vice Sports ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Deemed unacceptable behavior in most other forums, fighting is encouraged in hockey for some reason, so here's a video in which an adult punches another adult at work.

Tensions mounted during Wednesday's ECHL game between the Quad City Mallards and the Cincinnati Cyclones. They reached a boiling point when opposing goalies Adam Vay and Michael Houser removed their masks and skated to center ice to trade fists.

Per Bobby Metcalf of the Quad-City Times, Mallards head coach Terry Ruskowski described the scene leading up to the altercation:

It got a little spirited. I'd think frustration was probably building up and one thing led to another. Somebody hit our defenseman hard behind the net and Vay just went after him. I don't like the situation but you have to have some sort of spirit or jump and everybody is flat right now.

Vay got the better of the exchange, knocking out Houser with a two-strike combo. Violence, however, doesn't put points on the scoreboard, and Houser's Cyclones earned the 3-2 victory.

[Patrick Riley, h/t Vice Sports]