Knotty but nice: scientists tie tightest knot ever from string of atoms
Knotty but nice: scientists tie tightest knot ever from string of atoms
t could be the most frustrating knot ever created. Scientists have produced the most tightly knotted physical structure ever made, out of loop of 192 atoms. The team from the University of Manchester say it could pave the way for creating ultra-lightweight material which is so impenetrable it could stop a speeding bullet. The knot is made out of 192 iron, oxygen, carbon and nitrogen atoms and is about 20 nanometres long, or  20 millionths of a millimeter. Professor David Leigh, of Manchester’s School of Chemistry, said: "Tying knots is a similar process to weaving so the techniques being developed to tie knots in molecules should also be applicable to the weaving of molecular strands. "For example, bullet-proof vests and body armour are made of kevlar, a plastic that consists of rigid molecular rods aligned in a parallel structure - however, interweaving polymer strands have the potential to create much tougher, lighter and more flexible materials in the same way that weaving threads does in our everyday world. "Some polymers, such as spider silk, can be twice as strong as steel so braiding polymer strands may lead to new generations of light, super-strong and flexible materials for fabrication and construction." ow the knot has been made, the team can start testing the strength and elasticity and working out how to weave the strands together to generate new types of material. Describing how the know was made, Prof Leigh added: "We 'tied' the molecular knot using a technique called 'self-assembly', in which molecular strands are woven around metal ions, forming crossing points in the right places just like in knitting - and the ends of the strands were then fused together by a chemical catalyst to close the loop and form the complete knot. "The eight-crossings molecular knot is the most complex regular woven molecule yet made by scientists." The research was published in the journal Science.

It could be the most frustrating knot ever created.

Scientists have produced the most tightly knotted physical structure ever made, out of loop of 192 atoms.

The team from the University of Manchester say it could pave the way for creating ultra-lightweight material which is so impenetrable it could stop a speeding bullet.

The knot is made out of 192 iron, oxygen, carbon and nitrogen atoms and is about 20 nanometres long, or 20 millionths of a millimeter.

Professor David Leigh, of Manchester’s School of Chemistry, said: "Tying knots is a similar process to weaving so the techniques being developed to tie knots in molecules should also be applicable to the weaving of molecular strands.

"For example, bullet-proof vests and body armour are made of kevlar, a plastic that consists of rigid molecular rods aligned in a parallel structure - however, interweaving polymer strands have the potential to create much tougher, lighter and more flexible materials in the same way that weaving threads does in our everyday world.

"Some polymers, such as spider silk, can be twice as strong as steel so braiding polymer strands may lead to new generations of light, super-strong and flexible materials for fabrication and construction."