Dieselgate: 13 VW Managers Indicted Around The World, Big Guys Unbothered
Dieselgate: 13 VW Managers Indicted Around The World, Big Guys Unbothered
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bertel Schmitt       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. AG Loretta Lynch announces the indictments in Washington, DC (Photo: Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images) Volkswagen managers are living dangerously, as 13 of their own have been indicted by governments around the world. In the U.S., six current and former Volkswagen managers have been charged, outgoing Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said yesterday in a press conference in Washington, D.C. On the same day, South Korea enlarged a list of Volkswagen managers charged with criminal wrongdoings to seven, per South Korea’s Yonhap newswire. At a DOJ news conference that had its thunder stolen by the more salacious appeal of President-elect Trump’s NYC presser, Lynch formally announced a $4.3 billion settlement with Volkswagen, an indulgence trade that bought Volkswagen’s way out of criminal persecution by the U.S. government. The trouble for Volkswagen’s people however has just begun. “We can't put companies in jail, but we can hold their employees personally accountable,” said FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe, as criminal indictments were announced against six current and former Volkswagen executives. Their names are Oliver Schmidt, Jürgen Peter, Heinz-Jakob Neusser, Richard Dorenkamp, Bernd Gottweis, and Jens Hadler. In the indictment , the DOJ describes them as follows: Heinz-Jakob Neusser: from July 2013 until September 2015, Neusser worked for VW as head of Development for VW Brand and was also on the management board for VW Brand. Jens Hadler: from May 2007 until March 2011, Hadler worked for VW as head of Engine Development for VW. Richard Dorenkamp: from 2003 until December 2013, Dorenkamp worked for VW as the head of VW’s Engine Development After-Treatment Department in Wolfsburg, Germany. Bernd Gottweis: from 2007 until October 2014, Gottweis worked for VW as a supervisor with responsibility for Quality Management and Product Safety. Oliver Schmidt: from 2012 through February 2015, Schmidt was the General Manager in charge of the Environment and Engineering Office, located in Auburn Hills, Michigan. Jürgen Peter: Peter worked in the VW Quality Management and Product Safety Group from 1990 until the present. From March 2015 until July 2015, Peter was one of the VW liaisons between the regulatory agencies and VW. According to AG Lynch, “these individuals all held positions of significant responsibility,” but Volkswagen insiders differ. When I woke up a high-ranking Volkswagen exec in Wolfsburg with the news that a number of his colleagues are wanted in America, the drowsy contact said: “Who? Winterkorn? Diess? Stadler? Hackenberg? Hatz?” He could name the usual suspects at Volkswagen in his half-sleep. By name he only knew two on the DOJ’s list, Neusser and Dorenkamp, both suspended in late 2015, the rest drew a blank. Duly rattled from sleep, my contact assumed that the others on the wanted list “must be department-level types, I will have to look them up.” The DOJ is going after the soldiers, not the generals. Fugitive Heinz-Jakob Neusser (Photo: ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty Images) With Bernd Gottweis, the Feds definitely are after the wrong guy. Throughout his career at VW, the long-retired manager was the inconvenient voice of conscience at Volkswagen, warning everybody that if U.S. law is not observed, it can result in time behind American bars. Gottweis was head of the “ (APS)” (product safety taskforce). Unofficially, the team quickly was called (firefighter circle), also because it used to meet in the company's fire department. Of course, “product safety” was a euphemism. The taskforce deployed around the world in an early warning system to protect the company from harm caused by dodgy products and manager stupidity. According to Germany’s usually well-informed BILD tabloid , it was Gottweis who alerted Volkswagen’s then-CEO Martin Winterkorn on May 23, 2014, warning the boss that “it can be assumed that the regulator will investigate the VW-systems for the presence of a cycle-beating function in the engine controller software (so-called defeat device).” As part of the DOJ deal, Volkswagen will have to endure an “independent corporate compliance monitor” watching over Volkswagen’s future good behavior. The unintimidable Gottweis would be well-suited for that chaperone job, instead of a post-office poster. By going after Gottweis, the Feds ultimately signal that speaking out gets you in trouble.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Volkswagen managers are living dangerously, as 13 of their own have been indicted by governments around the world. In the U.S., six current and former Volkswagen managers have been charged, outgoing Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said yesterday in a press conference in Washington, D.C. On the same day, South Korea enlarged a list of Volkswagen managers charged with criminal wrongdoings to seven, per South Korea’s Yonhap newswire.

At a DOJ news conference that had its thunder stolen by the more salacious appeal of President-elect Trump’s NYC presser, Lynch formally announced a $4.3 billion settlement with Volkswagen, an indulgence trade that bought Volkswagen’s way out of criminal persecution by the U.S. government. The trouble for Volkswagen’s people however has just begun. “We can't put companies in jail, but we can hold their employees personally accountable,” said FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe, as criminal indictments were announced against six current and former Volkswagen executives.

And the suspects are ...

Their names are Oliver Schmidt, Jürgen Peter, Heinz-Jakob Neusser, Richard Dorenkamp, Bernd Gottweis, and Jens Hadler. In the indictment, the DOJ describes them as follows:

Heinz-Jakob Neusser: from July 2013 until September 2015, Neusser worked for VW as head of Development for VW Brand and was also on the management board for VW Brand. Jens Hadler: from May 2007 until March 2011, Hadler worked for VW as head of Engine Development for VW. Richard Dorenkamp: from 2003 until December 2013, Dorenkamp worked for VW as the head of VW’s Engine Development After-Treatment Department in Wolfsburg, Germany. Bernd Gottweis: from 2007 until October 2014, Gottweis worked for VW as a supervisor with responsibility for Quality Management and Product Safety. Oliver Schmidt: from 2012 through February 2015, Schmidt was the General Manager in charge of the Environment and Engineering Office, located in Auburn Hills, Michigan. Jürgen Peter: Peter worked in the VW Quality Management and Product Safety Group from 1990 until the present. From March 2015 until July 2015, Peter was one of the VW liaisons between the regulatory agencies and VW.

According to AG Lynch, “these individuals all held positions of significant responsibility,” but Volkswagen insiders differ. When I woke up a high-ranking Volkswagen exec in Wolfsburg with the news that a number of his colleagues are wanted in America, the drowsy contact said: “Who? Winterkorn? Diess? Stadler? Hackenberg? Hatz?” He could name the usual suspects at Volkswagen in his half-sleep. By name he only knew two on the DOJ’s list, Neusser and Dorenkamp, both suspended in late 2015, the rest drew a blank. Duly rattled from sleep, my contact assumed that the others on the wanted list “must be department-level types, I will have to look them up.” The DOJ is going after the soldiers, not the generals.

Gottweis should be hired, not charged

With Bernd Gottweis, the Feds definitely are after the wrong guy. Throughout his career at VW, the long-retired manager was the inconvenient voice of conscience at Volkswagen, warning everybody that if U.S. law is not observed, it can result in time behind American bars. Gottweis was head of the “Ausschuss für Produkt-Sicherheit (APS)” (product safety taskforce). Unofficially, the team quickly was called “Feuerwehr-Kreis” (firefighter circle), also because it used to meet in the company's fire department. Of course, “product safety” was a euphemism. The taskforce deployed around the world in an early warning system to protect the company from harm caused by dodgy products and manager stupidity. According to Germany’s usually well-informed BILD tabloid, it was Gottweis who alerted Volkswagen’s then-CEO Martin Winterkorn on May 23, 2014, warning the boss that “it can be assumed that the regulator will investigate the VW-systems for the presence of a cycle-beating function in the engine controller software (so-called defeat device).” As part of the DOJ deal, Volkswagen will have to endure an “independent corporate compliance monitor” watching over Volkswagen’s future good behavior. The unintimidable Gottweis would be well-suited for that chaperone job, instead of a post-office poster. By going after Gottweis, the Feds ultimately signal that speaking out gets you in trouble.