Morocco 'bans sale and production' of the burka
Morocco 'bans sale and production' of the burka
orocco has reportedly banned the sale and production of the burka in what appears to be the latest stage of the kingdom's crackdown on Islamic extremism. Letters announcing the ban were sent out to market vendors earlier this week, with businessmen given just 48 hours to get rid of their stock. It is unclear whether the ban, which is linked to security concerns as the burka fully conceals the wearer's face, extends to wearing the burka in public places. "We have taken the step of completely banning the import, manufacture and marketing of this garment in all the cities and towns of the kingdom," a senior Moroccan government official told local news website le360. The kingdom's government has not confirmed the ban and it was unavailable for comment on Thursday. Relatively few Muslim women in Morocco wear the burka, which completely conceals the wearer's face with a grille. They instead opt for the hijab, a headscarf, or the niqab, which leaves the eyes visible. The burka is more commonly worn in conservative Muslim societies such as Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Foreign Office says there is a "high risk" of terror attacks in Morocco, a popular tourist destination that sees up to 600,00 British visitors each year. ing Mohammed VI, who oversees the Moroccan government, has said that he favours a moderate version of Islam and has vowed to crack down on homegrown terrorism. "Those who engage in terrorism, in the name of Islam, are not Muslims," he said in a speech last August. "Their only link to Islam is the pretexts they use to justify their crimes and their folly. "They have strayed from the right path, and their fate is to dwell forever in hell." The ban has divided Moroccans - while some Salafist Muslim groups have strongly criticised the move, others say it is justified as the burka oppresses women. "When it’s about wearing a hijab, a burqa, salafis all agree," said  Saida Drissi, chairman of the Democratic Association of the Women of Morocco. "But we never hear them [protest] when a girl can’t wear a miniskirt...do the salafis believe in the freedom of religion, in the personal rights, in the fact that the woman is a citizen ?" he added: "For us, to dress up a woman like that is an act of submission. The salafis use 4WD, smartphones, but in the same time, they want their obedient wives jailed in a burqa. " The Moroccan interior ministry claims to have dismantled 160 domestic terror cells since 2002, and the kingdom has been relatively untroubled by jihadists compared to other North African countries. It believes 1,500 Moroccan nationals are fighting in Syria and Iraq, of which 220 have been jailed after returning home. A number of Islamic State extremists who committed terrorist outrages in 2015 and 2016 had links to Morocco. Salah Abdeslam, a co-plotter of the November 2015 Paris attacks which left 130 people dead, is a French national of Moroccan descent. bdelhamid Abaaoud, who also helped plan the attack, had dual Belgian-Moroccan citizenship. Oussama Atar, another Belgian-Moroccan citizen, is suspected of planning both the Paris attacks and the March 2016 Belgian bombings, which killed 32 people. And as recently as last December, Moroccan citizen Redouane S was arrested in Germany on suspicion of plotting the Paris massacre. His full name has been not released due to Germany's strict privacy laws. The Foreign Office's travel guidance on Morocco says there is a "growing number of Moroccans sympathetic or belonging to Daesh and other extremist groups." "[The Moroccan authorities] regularly report the disruption of terrorist cells, some of which intended to carry out attacks in Morocco," it adds.

Morocco has reportedly banned the sale and production of the burka in what appears to be the latest stage of the kingdom's crackdown on Islamic extremism.

Letters announcing the ban were sent out to market vendors earlier this week, with businessmen given just 48 hours to get rid of their stock.

It is unclear whether the ban, which is linked to security concerns as the burka fully conceals the wearer's face, extends to wearing the burka in public places.

"We have taken the step of completely banning the import, manufacture and marketing of this garment in all the cities and towns of the kingdom," a senior Moroccan government official told local news website le360.

The kingdom's government has not confirmed the ban and it was unavailable for comment on Thursday.

Relatively few Muslim women in Morocco wear the burka, which completely conceals the wearer's face with a grille.

They instead opt for the hijab, a headscarf, or the niqab, which leaves the eyes visible.

The burka is more commonly worn in conservative Muslim societies such as Afghanistan and Pakistan.

The Foreign Office says there is a "high risk" of terror attacks in Morocco, a popular tourist destination that sees up to 600,00 British visitors each year.