How Samsung And Qualcomm Are Driving Towards Connected Cars
How Samsung And Qualcomm Are Driving Towards Connected Cars
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  John Kang       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. First it was personal computers, then smartphones. Now the year’s largest tech expo showed us what the next growth driver is: connected cars. At CES last week, tech giants like Microsoft, Intel and Nvidia showed off their latest plans for the fast-growing connected car market. Worldwide sales of connected car products is expected to increase almost fourfold between 2015 and 2020, according to a report by PwC’s Strategy&, adding more than $149 billion in revenues in the passenger car segment alone. Some of the biggest bets have been by Samsung and Qualcomm. Both invested record amounts for a ticket into the connected car market late last year. In October, Qualcomm announced it would acquire semiconductor manufacturer NXP for about $38 billion —the biggest chip deal in history. With NXP’s broad portfolio of automotive microcontrollers and processors, the deal makes Qualcomm the world’s largest automotive chipmaker. Less than a month later, Samsung Electronics said it was buying Tier 1 auto supplier Harman for around $8 billion —the tech giant’s largest acquisition ever. Harman is the top in-vehicle infotainment solution provider, and with Samsung’s support and expertise in electronic parts and applications, the auto-parts supplier will be able to offer end-to-end solutions for connected cars. A Rinspeed Budii concept car powered by Harman’s infotainment system. (Photo credit: Pau Barrena/Bloomberg) The two companies will have different approaches to the market though: The South Korean conglomerate will sell automotive chips through Harman's products, whereas the San Diego-based semiconductor company will sell chips to Tier 1 connected car suppliers. Between the two, Qualcomm has a better shot at automotive-chip glory. Not only does it have a wider range of offerings, but Qualcomm won’t have any clashes when selling its chips to Tier 1 suppliers, except with Samsung’s Harman. In fact, Qualcomm is expected to have the largest market share in the automotive chip market. “With revenue estimates exceeding $1 billion per annum, Qualcomm (with the NXP acquisition) will move firmly into the number one market share position for application-specific infotainment and telematics products,” said Richard Robinson, director of global automotive practice at Strategy Analytics. Ricky Hudi, executive vice president of electronic development for Audi, displays the Qualcomm Snapdragon 602A processor during an event at CES 2016. (Photo credit: Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg) Harman and NXP will also eventually compete in the race for self-driving car (SDC) solutions as both companies have experience in advanced driver assistance system (ADAS). Currently, NXP and Nvidia are the two frontrunners in SDC mobile computer platforms, which is required for carmakers to build and test SDCs. Ian Riches, director of global automotive practice also at Strategy Analytics, believes NXP’s existing platform (called BlueBox) can be improved by adopting Qualcomm’s high performance application processors. Harman, however, has made much less progress. “Harman has been trying to extend its product offerings from infotainment/telematics into the ADAS space for some time now, but this is a long-term project,” said Riches. “Samsung, too, is far more of a ‘wannabe’ than an ‘incumbent’ in this space, aside from its relatively new Smart Machines Group and recent news of a chip deal with Tesla.” Besides trailing behind rivals, Samsung and Harman also face road bumps from carmakers. “The challenge for those trying to provide system-level solutions is that the carmakers themselves are increasingly taking on more of the development work and IP creation,” adds Riches. “Where they are looking for help, it is often to small Silicon Valley/Israeli startups, not other large corporations.” There is one area where the two companies can work together in the connected car space. Qualcomm is the world’s largest 4G LTE modem maker and will likely be the leader for the upcoming 5G, which Samsung may need to rely on. The new wireless technology will be crucial for cellular vehicle-to-everything technologies, which industry experts believe will boost safety in fully autonomous driving. “Although both companies have the funds to be successful, I believe Qualcomm will have a leadership position in the development of 5G,” says Len Jelinek, senior director of semiconductor manufacturing at IHS. “Samsung may view this as a partnership in that it could be a major hardware provider, and therefore, by working with Qualcomm, actually capture a strong position in the overall wireless market without having to spend the R&D on the wireless solution.” The 2015 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan. (Photo credit: Bill Pugliano/Getty Images) But they will need to cooperate with other companies, too. Unlike in the smartphone market, where Samsung and Qualcomm are the biggest players, there are many other major players involved in the global supply chains of the automotive market. Samsung and Qualcomm will have limited influence in the connected car market even with their record acquisitions. Both may need cross-industry alliances with incumbent players, rather than a partnership with one another. For example, Intel, the world largest chipmaker, recently created a team together with leading ADAS supplier Mobileye and Delphi, one of the largest suppliers for automotive parts, to develop SDC solutions. The connected car market is set to be the next battleground for tech companies, but it won't be an all-out war. The ones that can figure out how to    Trending on {{channel_name}}

First it was personal computers, then smartphones. Now the year’s largest tech expo showed us what the next growth driver is: connected cars.

At CES last week, tech giants like Microsoft, Intel and Nvidia showed off their latest plans for the fast-growing connected car market. Worldwide sales of connected car products is expected to increase almost fourfold between 2015 and 2020, according to a report by PwC’s Strategy&, adding more than $149 billion in revenues in the passenger car segment alone.

Some of the biggest bets have been by Samsung and Qualcomm. Both invested record amounts for a ticket into the connected car market late last year.

Record-breaking deals

In October, Qualcomm announced it would acquire semiconductor manufacturer NXP for about $38 billion—the biggest chip deal in history. With NXP’s broad portfolio of automotive microcontrollers and processors, the deal makes Qualcomm the world’s largest automotive chipmaker.

Less than a month later, Samsung Electronics said it was buying Tier 1 auto supplier Harman for around $8 billion—the tech giant’s largest acquisition ever. Harman is the top in-vehicle infotainment solution provider, and with Samsung’s support and expertise in electronic parts and applications, the auto-parts supplier will be able to offer end-to-end solutions for connected cars.

Competition ahead

The two companies will have different approaches to the market though: The South Korean conglomerate will sell automotive chips through Harman's products, whereas the San Diego-based semiconductor company will sell chips to Tier 1 connected car suppliers.

Between the two, Qualcomm has a better shot at automotive-chip glory. Not only does it have a wider range of offerings, but Qualcomm won’t have any clashes when selling its chips to Tier 1 suppliers, except with Samsung’s Harman.

In fact, Qualcomm is expected to have the largest market share in the automotive chip market. “With revenue estimates exceeding $1 billion per annum, Qualcomm (with the NXP acquisition) will move firmly into the number one market share position for application-specific infotainment and telematics products,” said Richard Robinson, director of global automotive practice at Strategy Analytics.

Harman and NXP will also eventually compete in the race for self-driving car (SDC) solutions as both companies have experience in advanced driver assistance system (ADAS).

Currently, NXP and Nvidia are the two frontrunners in SDC mobile computer platforms, which is required for carmakers to build and test SDCs. Ian Riches, director of global automotive practice also at Strategy Analytics, believes NXP’s existing platform (called BlueBox) can be improved by adopting Qualcomm’s high performance application processors.

Harman, however, has made much less progress. “Harman has been trying to extend its product offerings from infotainment/telematics into the ADAS space for some time now, but this is a long-term project,” said Riches. “Samsung, too, is far more of a ‘wannabe’ than an ‘incumbent’ in this space, aside from its relatively new Smart Machines Group and recent news of a chip deal with Tesla.”

Besides trailing behind rivals, Samsung and Harman also face road bumps from carmakers.

“The challenge for those trying to provide system-level solutions is that the carmakers themselves are increasingly taking on more of the development work and IP creation,” adds Riches. “Where they are looking for help, it is often to small Silicon Valley/Israeli startups, not other large corporations.”

Area for cooperation

There is one area where the two companies can work together in the connected car space. Qualcomm is the world’s largest 4G LTE modem maker and will likely be the leader for the upcoming 5G, which Samsung may need to rely on.

The new wireless technology will be crucial for cellular vehicle-to-everything technologies, which industry experts believe will boost safety in fully autonomous driving.

“Although both companies have the funds to be successful, I believe Qualcomm will have a leadership position in the development of 5G,” says Len Jelinek, senior director of semiconductor manufacturing at IHS. “Samsung may view this as a partnership in that it could be a major hardware provider, and therefore, by working with Qualcomm, actually capture a strong position in the overall wireless market without having to spend the R&D on the wireless solution.”

But they will need to cooperate with other companies, too. Unlike in the smartphone market, where Samsung and Qualcomm are the biggest players, there are many other major players involved in the global supply chains of the automotive market. Samsung and Qualcomm will have limited influence in the connected car market—even with their record acquisitions. Both may need cross-industry alliances with incumbent players, rather than a partnership with one another. For example, Intel, the world largest chipmaker, recently created a team together with leading ADAS supplier Mobileye and Delphi, one of the largest suppliers for automotive parts, to develop SDC solutions.

The connected car market is set to be the next battleground for tech companies, but it won't be an all-out war. The ones that can figure out how to cooperate and compete—whether it be Samsung, Qualcomm or another company—will be the companies that drive this space forward.

Follow me on Twitter @johnhjkang and email me at jkang@forbes.com