China trade weaker than expected as exports fall again



China trade weaker than expected as exports fall again

Posted

China's rebounding economy has hit another speed-hump with a disappointing set of trade figures showing a surprising drop in exports last month.

The General Administration of Customs reported exports fell 6.1 per cent in US currency terms, while imports rose 3.1 per cent, both softer than November's figures.

The overall trade surplus narrowed around 10 per cent to $US40.8 billion in December, while the cumulative surplus for 2016 came in at $US510 billion.

In local currency terms, exports fell 2 per cent - a sharp reversal from the almost 6 per cent growth reported for November - while imports eked out 0.6 per cent growth compared to the 13 per cent surge in the previous month.

Market consensus had expected exports to be flat and imports to have jumped around 4 per cent.

Capital Economics China economist Julian Evans-Pritchard said the figures were disappointing given recent surveys pointed to global trade picking up towards the end of the year.

"The drop back in trade growth is still concerning given that the current environment of rising prices and relatively buoyant global manufacturing growth ought to have been supportive of Chinese trade values," Mr Evans Pritchard said.

"Looking ahead, it's hard to see what could drive a more substantial recovery in Chinese trade.

"Further upside to economic activity, both in China and abroad, is probably now limited given declines in trend growth.

"Instead, the risks to trade lie to the downside - the likelihood of a damaging trade spat between China and the US has risen in recent weeks following Trump's appointment of hardliners to lead US trade policy."

Record imports for iron ore and copper in 2016

However, the customs figures demonstrated China still has a growing appetite for raw commodities.

Imports of iron ore broke through the billion tonne level for the first time in 2016.

Customs figures reported iron ore imports rose 7.5 per cent to 1.024 billion tonnes, beating the 2015 record of 953 million tonnes.

On the downside, December imports were down around 3 per cent over the month, while total coal imports slipped 0.5 per cent.

Copper imports also hit a new record, up almost 3 per cent to 4.95 million tonnes in 2016, kicked along by a 30 per cent surge over the month.

China's crude oil imports rose 13.6 per cent over the year, with Reuters calculating December shipments hit a record 8.56 million barrels a day.

Topics: trade, economic-trends, iron-ore, coal, china