33 Cute Accessories That’ll Melt Even The Coldest Heart
33 Cute Accessories That'll Melt Even The Coldest Heart
A dainty Princess Leia necklace to commemorate a lady who was actually tough as hell. thinkgeek.com thinkgeek.com  Get it from Think Geek for $17.99 . A schoolbus of Hello Kitty collector pins that will brighten your textbook-filled, study-marathoning days. sanrio.com sanrio.com Hello Kitty predicts many A’s in your future. Get the set from Sanrio for $39 . A delightful tote that’ll make you wish you could eat tacos in space. Step 1: become an astronaut. Step 2: bring tacos aboard your next mission. Get it from Forever 21 for $1.90 . If your taste buds prefer Chinese takeout and fortune cookies, there’s a tote for those too. Darling socks that will transform your feet into Disney princesses. No bippity, boppity, or boo required. Get five pairs from Amazon for $14.88 . A pair of kittens with nothing better to do than to hang onto your earlobes. Get them from Amazon for $18.50 . A steaming catpuccino for a double dose of caffeine and cuteness. Brb, melting into a coffee puddle. Get the pin from LindaPanda on Etsy for $12 . Too busy to sit in a café? Here’s a catpuccino to go .  Hollywood girl and modern art nail stickers for instantly stylish digits. sokoglam.com sokoglam.com Get the first sheet here and the second sheet here (both $8 from Soko Glam). Plush bear claw gloves that will keep your hands warm while showing off your nails. Double the compliments. Get them from Amazon for $6.99 . A pair of slip-ons with your favorite blubbery sea nuggets. You just call them manatees? Weird. Get them from Bucket Feet for $75 . A patterned elephant watch that’ll go with any outfit. Get it from Amazon for $2.08 . A fuzzy unicorn graphic backpack that you’ll want to pet for days. And carry your stuff around in, but that comes second. Get it from Forever 21 for $24.90 . A scrumptious egg and toast breakfast for your finger. us.asos.com us.asos.com Get it from Asos for $9.50 . A cozy beanie that understands what is dearest to your heart. Even if they don’t always think the same way back. Get it from Katie Abey Design on Etsy for $12.48 . Derpy earrings of Sanrio’s laziest egg in his natural habitat. Complaining and doing nothing. Get them from Modcloth for $24.99 . This fried-egg Gudetama crossbody bag from Think Geek is also super cute! A gentle elephant that will comfort you during rough times ahead. Get the necklace from Amazon for $10.99 . Also available in gold and silver. A pair of adorable pandas who are just the best of friends. You’ve got a friend in me Get the pin from Xoxo Designs by Ruth on Etsy for $7.49 . Soft pink socks for the ~sweetest~ monster around. Get a pair from Amazon for $10.65 . Also available in cat monster , coffee monster , and shoe monster versions. And speaking of sweet, these earrings also fit the bill. Get the set from Forever 21 for $3.90 . A tiny vegan leather pouch that’s always ready to pucker up. urbanoutfitters.com urbanoutfitters.com Lipstick addicts, where you at? Get it from Urban Outfitters for $12 . Multicolored fox socks that will make winter a little more bearable. Get a 3-pack from Amazon for $11.99 . Sunshine yellow flats that always greet with you with enthusiasm. modcloth.com modcloth.com Get them from Modcloth for $51.99 . A furry green llama that won’t have any of your Blair Waldorf meltdowns. Get the pin from Jesiiii on Etsy for $20 . A just-peachy keychain of your most overused emoji. Get it from Urban Outfitters for $16 . A colorfully-outfitted dachchund that is well aware of its own charm. *yawns* Tell me something I don’t already know, will you? Get it from La Cravette Du Chien on Etsy for $21.68 . A sequined faux leather crossbody with adorable bunny ears that just won’t quit. forever21.com forever21.com Get it from Forever 21 for $17.90 . A wide-eyed kitty that will hopefully only bring good luck. And excellent signals. Get the phone case from Nylon for $38 (iPhone 7). Also available for iPhone 6 , and as a portable charger . Essential pins for any dedicated mermaid-in-training. Shoot for the seashells! Get them from Modcloth for $16.99 . Heart-shaped sunglasses that tap into a more innocent IRL emoji look.    Get them from Nylon for $55 . A scenic medallion necklace that will lend you major mountain wanderlust. Get it from Urban Outfitters for $20 . Shimmery velvet bow hair ties for an upgraded ponytail. down to the ponytail queen. Get them from Anthropologie for $18 . An endearing cotton clutch depicting two elephants on love. iamfy.co iamfy.co So baby, know for sure that I’ll never let you go  Get it from Iamfy for $32 . A charming origami dinosaur that’ll stomp its way into your heart. Get the necklace from Modcloth for $35 . And a pup-sized hoodie for your furry, always-cold baby. amazon.com amazon.com Get it from Amazon for $10.99+ . Sizes XS-XXL. Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

11. A fuzzy unicorn graphic backpack that you’ll want to pet for days.

And carry your stuff around in, but that comes second.

Get it from Forever 21 for $24.90.