Europe migrant crisis: Rescue ships save 800 asylum seekers during break in winter weather



Europe migrant crisis: Rescue ships save 800 asylum seekers during break in winter weather

Posted

More than 800 asylum seekers have been saved from flimsy rubber boats adrift on the Mediterranean, as Libya-based people smugglers took advantage of a window of good mid-winter weather to send them to sea.

Key points: Humanitarian groups say no let up in tide of asylum seekers leaving north Africa

Last year a record 181,000 boat migrants reached Italy

EU plans new measures to stop migrants crossing the Mediterranean from Libya

The Italian coastguard said its vessel, Diciotti, and two ships run by humanitarian groups, the Aquarius and the Golfo Azzurro, went to the rescue of six rubber dinghies in international waters off the coast of Libya on Thursday.

Mathilde Auvillain, a spokeswoman for SOS Mediterranee which co-runs the Aquarius, said they also helped a small wooden boat carrying 26 people, mostly Nigerians, the day before.

She said after several days of rough seas, weather conditions improved mid-week and were expected to remain calm until the end of the week.

"We are expecting another long year. There's no sign that things are going to improve," Ms Auvillain said.

"So far this winter we have had no rest. We have not gone a full week without a rescue."

She said that among the 149 rescued by the Aquarius were people from Nigeria, Sudan, Guinea, and Bangladesh.

Last year a record 181,000 boat migrants, mostly from Africa, reached Italy.

The majority paid Libyan people traffickers to make the journey.

With Libya still plagued by disorder and divided by rival governments and militias, the country has become a safe haven for people smugglers and a dangerous place for migrants.

"The migrants are fleeing Libya as much as they are coming to Europe," Ms Auvillain said.

She said last year the Aquarius crew went to the rescue of 7,500 boat migrants.

European Union officials said it planned new measures to deter migrants crossing the Mediterranean from Libya, as Malta urged the bloc to act to head off a surge in arrivals from North Africa.

The EU all but halted a migrant influx into Greece through a deal last year with Turkey to hold back Syrian refugees.

But doing the same in Italy's case is more problematic because of the lack of an effective state authority in Libya.

Reuters

Topics: refugees, community-and-society, immigration, italy, nigeria, bangladesh, guinea, sudan