Dead Whale Washes Ashore at End of LaGuardia Airport Runway
Dead Whale Washes Ashore at End of LaGuardia Runway
Shares               New York City's LaGuardia Airport had an unexpected arrival Thursday afternoon: A dead whale.   The 15-foot minke whale washed ashore in Flushing Bay and was discovered on an embankment leading up to one of the runways, WABC-TV reported. It is unclear how the whale died. The minke whale typically weighs between 5 tons and 6 tons, which is smaller than a humpback whale. The airport is consulting with the Riverhead Foundation for Marine Research and Preservation -- which wants to examine the whale -- to figure how to remove the mammal without disrupting LaGuardia's flight operations, according to WABC-TV. "To actually have a whale at this location is a new location," said Kimberly Durham, a biologist and the conservation group's rescue program director. "It's certainly in proximity to Port Authority and operations that go there, there's a lot of things that have to be taken into consideration and we'll be working with the Port Authority to see what we can do regarding this carcass."   Shares                  Dead Whale Washes Ashore at End of LaGuardia Runway   Tom Brady on Missing Super Bowl Jersey: If It Shows Up on eBay 'Let Me Know'   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Apple, Google, Uber Join Fight Against Trump Travel Ban   Travel Ban Lifted but for How Long? Court Must Decide   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Pence: Education Pick DeVos Will Be Confirmed With His Vote   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

New York City's LaGuardia Airport had an unexpected arrival Thursday afternoon: A dead whale.

WABC-TV

The 15-foot minke whale washed ashore in Flushing Bay and was discovered on an embankment leading up to one of the runways, WABC-TV reported.

It is unclear how the whale died.

The minke whale typically weighs between 5 tons and 6 tons, which is smaller than a humpback whale.

The airport is consulting with the Riverhead Foundation for Marine Research and Preservation -- which wants to examine the whale -- to figure how to remove the mammal without disrupting LaGuardia's flight operations, according to WABC-TV.

"To actually have a whale at this location is a new location," said Kimberly Durham, a biologist and the conservation group's rescue program director. "It's certainly in proximity to Port Authority and operations that go there, there's a lot of things that have to be taken into consideration and we'll be working with the Port Authority to see what we can do regarding this carcass."