Coen Brothers Planning First TV Series
Coen Brothers Planning First TV Series
The Coen brothers are joining the ranks of acclaimed filmmakers venturing into television. Joel and Ethan Coen, the team behind films like “No Country for Old Men,” “Fargo” and “The Big Lebowski,” have made plans to produce their first TV project: a new mini-series set in the Old West, Variety reported . The show, “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs,” will be produced by the filmmakers’ Mike Zoss Productions along with Annapurna Television. A premiere date or network has not yet been announced. The Coens will write and direct the series, which will interweave six story lines, according to reports. They join other big-name filmmakers who have lately been giving TV a shot, including Woody Allen, whose “Crisis in Six Scenes” debuted on Amazon in September, and David O. Russell, who is working on a drama series , also for Amazon, starring Robert De Niro and Julianne Moore. The brothers are credited as executive producers on “Fargo,” the FX series inspired by their work, but are not involved with the production . A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2017, on Page C5 of the with the headline: Coen Brothers Planning Their First TV Series.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

The Coen brothers are joining the ranks of acclaimed filmmakers venturing into television.

Joel and Ethan Coen, the team behind films like “No Country for Old Men,” “Fargo” and “The Big Lebowski,” have made plans to produce their first TV project: a new mini-series set in the Old West, Variety reported. The show, “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs,” will be produced by the filmmakers’ Mike Zoss Productions along with Annapurna Television. A premiere date or network has not yet been announced.

The Coens will write and direct the series, which will interweave six story lines, according to reports. They join other big-name filmmakers who have lately been giving TV a shot, including Woody Allen, whose “Crisis in Six Scenes” debuted on Amazon in September, and David O. Russell, who is working on a drama series, also for Amazon, starring Robert De Niro and Julianne Moore.

The brothers are credited as executive producers on “Fargo,” the FX series inspired by their work, but are not involved with the production.