A raptor strikes at sunset

t is the hour before sunset and the paddock is bathed in liquid gold light. Heavy rain and frost melt have saturated the soil and the turf is pockmarked with hoofprint craters. The horses’ coats and feathered fetlocks are caked with mud the colour of wet concrete. Huddling round an old tractor tyre stuffed with hay, they jostle each other for the best stalks. With the temperature rapidly dropping, birds have also gathered to top up their fat reserves before dusk falls. Blackbirds and robins congregate at a midden of horse manure, picking through the steaming dung in search of invertebrates. Song thrushes, mistle thrushes and redwings have formed a mixed-species foraging flock, 18 of them altogether, tugging worms from their burrows beneath the divots. Gangs of magpies, carrion crows and wood pigeons swagger among them, scratching and pecking for overlooked morsels. Three rabbits are grazing on the field margin, where electric fencing has protected the sward from trampling feet. One starts as it spots a shadow of movement against the hedge, a flash of white scut signalling the alarm to its companions, which scuttle into a dugout beneath the field shelter. The potential predator, a buzzard , is oblivious; it is engrossed in a tug-of-war with an earthworm, which is stretching like an elastic band. The worm snaps and the buzzard staggers backwards, gulping down the tail end. Alerted to its presence, the magpies begin to crowd and heckle the buzzard. Other birds follow suit, but their attention is misplaced. Like a sprinter surging off the starting blocks, a female sparrowhawk launches from her concealed Scots pine perch. Swift and straight as an arrow, she sweeps down into the midst of the mob. Screeching, the corvids explode into the air like a firework starburst, followed by a wave of wood pigeons. Last into the air, the thrushes propel themselves on whirring wings towards the cover of an ivy-cloaked beech copse. The sparrowhawk fans her barred tail and skims the ground in jinking pursuit. Her outstretched talons strike at a lagging redwing and they disappear in a puff of feathers. @gdncountrydiary Topics  Birds   Wildlife   Rural affairs   Winter

It is the hour before sunset and the paddock is bathed in liquid gold light. Heavy rain and frost melt have saturated the soil and the turf is pockmarked with hoofprint craters. The horses’ coats and feathered fetlocks are caked with mud the colour of wet concrete. Huddling round an old tractor tyre stuffed with hay, they jostle each other for the best stalks.

Birdwatch: Sparrowhawk Read more

With the temperature rapidly dropping, birds have also gathered to top up their fat reserves before dusk falls. Blackbirds and robins congregate at a midden of horse manure, picking through the steaming dung in search of invertebrates. Song thrushes, mistle thrushes and redwings have formed a mixed-species foraging flock, 18 of them altogether, tugging worms from their burrows beneath the divots. Gangs of magpies, carrion crows and wood pigeons swagger among them, scratching and pecking for overlooked morsels.

Three rabbits are grazing on the field margin, where electric fencing has protected the sward from trampling feet. One starts as it spots a shadow of movement against the hedge, a flash of white scut signalling the alarm to its companions, which scuttle into a dugout beneath the field shelter. The potential predator, a buzzard, is oblivious; it is engrossed in a tug-of-war with an earthworm, which is stretching like an elastic band. The worm snaps and the buzzard staggers backwards, gulping down the tail end.

Alerted to its presence, the magpies begin to crowd and heckle the buzzard. Other birds follow suit, but their attention is misplaced. Like a sprinter surging off the starting blocks, a female sparrowhawk launches from her concealed Scots pine perch. Swift and straight as an arrow, she sweeps down into the midst of the mob. Screeching, the corvids explode into the air like a firework starburst, followed by a wave of wood pigeons. Last into the air, the thrushes propel themselves on whirring wings towards the cover of an ivy-cloaked beech copse.

The sparrowhawk fans her barred tail and skims the ground in jinking pursuit. Her outstretched talons strike at a lagging redwing and they disappear in a puff of feathers.



Follow Country diary on Twitter: @gdncountrydiary