'Deadpool 2' is Bringing Back Negasonic Teenage Warhead and Colossus
'Deadpool 2' is Bringing Back Negasonic Teenage Warhead and Colossus
has run into some major snags, including the loss of director Tim Miller and its composer Junkie XL . But now, with production about to begin , the film's writers have let slip that two much-loved characters from the first movie will be making a return visit. is reporting that writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick said definitively that Negasonic Teenage Colossus and Colossus will definitively "be in the sequel." Wernick admitted, "They'll at least make an appearance." We also know that Cable will play a big role . So how many characters are going to in this flick? Reese and Wernick's full conversation with drops on Friday, so presumably we'll find out more then. Fans of the series were of course thrilled at the news. :  , colossus, and like 13 other appear to help-  , nearly crying: "...we got a bigger budget!" Colossus, Teenage Warhead, and returning for 2! https://t.co/  pic.twitter.com/ it all means nothing if and colossus aren't dating https://t.co/ But seriously...glad to see Negasonic and Colossus getting some more love in Deadpool sequel. Who knows? Maybe they're also part of X-Force.

Deadpool 2 has run into some major snags, including the loss of director Tim Miller and its composer Junkie XL. But now, with production about to begin, the film's writers have let slip that two much-loved characters from the first movie will be making a return visit.

Collider is reporting that writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick said definitively that Negasonic Teenage Colossus and Colossus will definitively "be in the sequel." Wernick admitted, "They'll at least make an appearance."

We also know that Cable will play a big role. So how many characters are going to be in this flick? Reese and Wernick's full conversation with Collider drops on Friday, so presumably we'll find out more then.

Fans of the series were of course thrilled at the news.

deadpool2:

-negasonic, colossus, and like 13 other xmen appear to help-

deadpool, nearly crying: "...we got a bigger budget!" — jacko matoi ✂ ( @tehwinslow ) January 13, 2017

Colossus, Negasonic Teenage Warhead, and Dopinder returning for Deadpool 2! https://t.co/uiq5powdPG pic.twitter.com/q2Cri3BuN8 — IronKoenigMan ( @koenig_man ) January 13, 2017

it all means nothing if deadpool and colossus aren't dating https://t.co/axcpODpj7D — Helios's Awful Sons ( @fabiansociety ) January 13, 2017