Morgan Page & Steve James' 'Candles' Collab Is Proximity's First Release on New Label: Listen
Morgan Page & Steve James' 'Candles' Collab Is Proximity's First Release on New Label: Listen
Morgan Page & Steve James' 'Candles' Collab Is Proximity's First Release on New Label: Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  If you get a daily dose of dance from YouTube, you've undoubtedly heard of the channel Proximity. With more than 4.2 million subscribers, it is one of the largest YouTube networks in the dance sphere. Maybe you should have seen it coming, then, that Proximity is moving outside of the Google play box and into the real world of running a label. “To be able to move Proximity as a brand far beyond a YouTube channel is mind blowing to me,” Proximity founder and director Blake Coppleson says. “Music is the reason why I switched my career path to focusing 100 percent on Proximity, and I want to give back to you – the fans, the content creators, and the people who just want to listen to good music – for continuing to support Proximity as a brand. To be able to control the music that goes on Proximity, as well as allowing content creators to use music in their videos for free without having their videos taken down due to copyright strikes, this is why I am moving in this direction.”  For its first celebratory release, perhaps a happy birthday of sorts, Proximity is blowing out the “Candles” with a collab from two Grammy-nominated artists, Morgan Page and Steve James. It's a brightly burning love song, playful as it dances in the air. Listen to the track below, and show some love to Proximity's new venture when you purchase “Candles” on iTunes .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

If you get a daily dose of dance from YouTube, you've undoubtedly heard of the channel Proximity. With more than 4.2 million subscribers, it is one of the largest YouTube networks in the dance sphere. Maybe you should have seen it coming, then, that Proximity is moving outside of the Google play box and into the real world of running a label.

“To be able to move Proximity as a brand far beyond a YouTube channel is mind blowing to me,” Proximity founder and director Blake Coppleson says. “Music is the reason why I switched my career path to focusing 100 percent on Proximity, and I want to give back to you – the fans, the content creators, and the people who just want to listen to good music – for continuing to support Proximity as a brand. To be able to control the music that goes on Proximity, as well as allowing content creators to use music in their videos for free without having their videos taken down due to copyright strikes, this is why I am moving in this direction.”

For its first celebratory release, perhaps a happy birthday of sorts, Proximity is blowing out the “Candles” with a collab from two Grammy-nominated artists, Morgan Page and Steve James. It's a brightly burning love song, playful as it dances in the air. Listen to the track below, and show some love to Proximity's new venture when you purchase “Candles” on iTunes.