'Mario Kart 8 Deluxe' might resurrect Battle Mode for the Nintendo Switch
'Mario Kart 8 Deluxe' might resurrect Battle Mode for the Nintendo Switch
If you thought Nintendo was ramping up their newest console without including a Mario Kart game, think again. During the big N's press conference on the Nintendo Switch tonight, they released a trailer for While this isn't a true sequel to the racing franchise, the update to the most recent kart experience looks to include a number of new additions. No only does look to add new tracks to its wide selection, new characters will also join the fray. But most importantly, the trailer showed off what looked like whole arenas to improve the notorious Battle Mode , giving new characters new maps to wallop each other with shells. was not given a release date, so we'll just have to sit and daydream about the opportunity to properly battle friends with bananas. Have a damn good cup of coffee with this 'Twin Peaks' supercut This heartbreaking video tells the story of two child refugees, 80 years apart Kristen Stewart turns a Super Bowl party into an erotic French film on 'SNL' Leslie Jones lost it when she impersonated Samuel L. Jackson on 'SNL'

If you thought Nintendo was ramping up their newest console without including a Mario Kart game, think again.

During the big N's press conference on the Nintendo Switch tonight, they released a trailer for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. While this isn't a true sequel to the racing franchise, the update to the most recent kart experience looks to include a number of new additions.

No only does Mario Kart 8 Deluxe look to add new tracks to its wide selection, new characters will also join the fray. But most importantly, the trailer showed off what looked like whole arenas to improve the notorious Battle Mode, giving new characters new maps to wallop each other with shells.

Mario Kart 8 Deluxe was not given a release date, so we'll just have to sit and daydream about the opportunity to properly battle friends with bananas.