This Pattern Test Can Guess Your Relationship Status So Freaking Accurately
This Pattern Test Can Guess Your Relationship Status So Freaking Accurately
This Pattern Test Can Guess Your Relationship Status So Freaking Accurately  You got:
								
								You’re single AF  You’re single and ready to mingle. You’re way too busy dating and kissing whoever the fuck you want to be concerned with getting in a relationship right now. Enjoy your “me” time!     You got:
								
								You’re in a long-term relationship  You’re in a serious relationship. Marriage might be somewhere down the road for you, but right now you’re content to just be committed to your significant other. Enjoy this precious chill time with your love.     You got:
								
								You’re married  Your significant other did indeed put a ring on it. You’re very happy in your relationship and are always ready to dole out relationship advice. After all, you’re married! You’re the expert!     You got:
								
								You’re in a new relationship  You just started something new with someone. Sure, you’re still kind of testing the waters, but you also still have those butterflies whenever you see them. It’s cute to be in the honeymoon phase!     You got:
								
								You’re in a friends-with-benefits situation  You’re looking for sex, not love, and that’s what your relationship is all about. And there’s no shame in that! You do you, and get exactly what you want.     You got:
								
								Your situation is complicated  If we start talking about your relationship status, we might be here for years. Let’s just leave it at that simple word: complicated. You’ll figure it out eventually, but for now, there’s no need to define it.    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   Tell Us How You Stay Positive When Everything Is Trash...    "Hamilton" Fans, Lin-Manuel Miranda Credits...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.