The Dangal Effect! How Phogat Sisters Are Inspiring Schoolgirls To Take Up Amateur Wrestling In Kerala
Dangal Effect! How Phogat Sisters Are Inspiring Kerala Schoolgirls To Take Up Amateur Wrestling
The Dangal Effect! How Phogat Sisters Are Inspiring Schoolgirls To Take Up Amateur Wrestling In Kerala Gatta Gusti, the Kerala version of the traditional style of wrestling, has comeback with a vengeance in the muddy rings of Mattancherry with young girls joining amateur wrestling classes inspired by the hit movie Dangal. Their , two Haryanvi girls who went on to win accolades for India at wrestling competitions, egged on by their persistent father. The 29 girls who have enrolled for the harsh training regime at Sree Gujarati Vidyalaya Higher Secondary School in Mattancherry state that there is no such parental pressure and they have come on their own will and passion - the kind of obsession that youngsters are drawn into when movies take over popular imagination. But Gatta Gusti can be really harsh for beginners and you need get accustomed to the bruises, sprains and bone-crushing throw downs and it is a fact that many beginners drop out after a couple of weeks. "After watching the movie Dangal, I got fascinated by wrestling and enrolled for the training programme. Besides, I feel it also teaches many self-defence techniques," says Farzana A, a Class VIII student. TA Farish, the physical education teacher at the school, says that she used to literally plead with the students to join for Gatta Gusti training. "Only a few used to come forward, but now everybody wants to train for Gatta Gusti as they got inspired by the m vie,'' he says. The school authorities are now planning to procure a state- of-the-art wrestling mat worth Rs 4.5 lakh. But there are students like Farzana who says that though she had begun to learn the basic techniques she could not continue the training as it clashed with her exam dates. "There are around 100 techniques in Gatta Gusti though many girls have now evinced interest to learn it. But they do not want to train on mud as they do not want to get bruised," says M M Saleem, general secretary of Kerala state Indian style wrestling association.

Gatta Gusti, the Kerala version of the traditional style of wrestling, has comeback with a vengeance in the muddy rings of Mattancherry with young girls joining amateur wrestling classes inspired by the hit movie Dangal.

Their role models are Geeta and Babita Phogat, two Haryanvi girls who went on to win accolades for India at wrestling competitions, egged on by their persistent father.

BCCL

The 29 girls who have enrolled for the harsh training regime at Sree Gujarati Vidyalaya Higher Secondary School in Mattancherry state that there is no such parental pressure and they have come on their own will and passion - the kind of obsession that youngsters are drawn into when movies take over popular imagination.

But Gatta Gusti can be really harsh for beginners and you need get accustomed to the bruises, sprains and bone-crushing throw downs and it is a fact that many beginners drop out after a couple of weeks.

"After watching the movie Dangal, I got fascinated by wrestling and enrolled for the training programme. Besides, I feel it also teaches many self-defence techniques," says Farzana A, a Class VIII student.

TA Farish, the physical education teacher at the school, says that she used to literally plead with the students to join for Gatta Gusti training.

BCCL

"Only a few used to come forward, but now everybody wants to train for Gatta Gusti as they got inspired by the m vie,'' he says.

The school authorities are now planning to procure a state- of-the-art wrestling mat worth Rs 4.5 lakh. But there are students like Farzana who says that though she had begun to learn the basic techniques she could not continue the training as it clashed with her exam dates.

"There are around 100 techniques in Gatta Gusti though many girls have now evinced interest to learn it. But they do not want to train on mud as they do not want to get bruised," says M M Saleem, general secretary of Kerala state Indian style wrestling association.

BCCL

The beach of Kochi was once the hub of Gatta Gusti championships till early 1970.

"The Queen of the Arabian Sea had witnessed a pulsating performance in 1960's when Dara Singh defeated Malaysia's King Kong a Fort Kochi beach in 45 seconds. Dara Singh used kallar jung technique to floor King Kong,'' he recalls.