Kodak Black Declares Lil Wayne 'Too Old' While Wearing Ski Mask on 'Breakfast Club'
Kodak Black Declares Lil Wayne 'Too Old' While Wearing Ski Mask on 'Breakfast Club'
Kodak Black , rocking a ski mask, stopped by the on Friday morning to mostly answer questions about his recent challenge to Lil Wayne to join him in the ring for a full-on spar. As far back as December, Kodak Black had been declaring himself the "best fucking rapper alive" while taking digs at Wayne: Lil Wayne Ain't The Best Fucking Rapper Alive ... IAM 😁🇭🇹 At the top of Friday's chat, Kodak was asked about his ongoing criticism of Wayne. Charlamagne The God , who recently named Kodak "Donkey of the Day," said that becoming the "best rapper alive" typically involved rapping, i.e. boxing. Kodak, in response, offered the following: "Right... Yeah." Related Kodak Black Challenges Lil Wayne to Fight: 'I'm Finna Knock That Stupid Ass N**** Out' Kodak Black Flexes His New Crib on Instagram Who Will Be the Breakout Artists of 2017? When asked by Angela Yee why he's been adamant about criticizing Wayne specifically, Kodak declined to give a reason. "I don't even wanna talk about it," he said. "He too old. That's what I said, you know what I'm saying? Y'all ain't finna have me tweeting right now." Charlamagne then pressed Kodak to reveal why he wasn't instead trying to Wayne, a question Kodak clearly wasn't feeling as he responded simply with, like, 10 straight seconds of complete silence. Mood pic.twitter.com/VYYDrbE1ED In an Instagram post earlier this week, Kodak outlined the stipulations of his fight challenge. "We finna get in the ring, we finna fight," he said in a post that has since been deleted. "Me and Lil Wayne. I'm finna knock that stupid ass n**** out." If Wayne wins this hypothetical match, Kodak said, he can continue calling himself the best rapper alive: Catch the full interview, which also includes Kodak's thoughts on Master P and accidental exposure , at the top of the page.

Kodak Black, rocking a ski mask, stopped by the Breakfast Club on Friday morning to mostly not answer questions about his recent challenge to Lil Wayne to join him in the ring for a full-on spar. As far back as December, Kodak Black had been declaring himself the "best fucking rapper alive" while taking digs at Wayne:

Lil Wayne Ain't The Best Fucking Rapper Alive ... IAM 😁🇭🇹 — Kodak Black (@KodakBlack1k) December 19, 2016

At the top of Friday's Breakfast Club chat, Kodak was asked about his ongoing criticism of Wayne. Charlamagne The God, who recently named Kodak "Donkey of the Day," said that becoming the "best rapper alive" typically involved rapping, i.e. not boxing. Kodak, in response, offered the following:

"Right... Yeah."

When asked by Angela Yee why he's been adamant about criticizing Wayne specifically, Kodak declined to give a reason. "I don't even wanna talk about it," he said. "He too old. That's what I said, you know what I'm saying? Y'all ain't finna have me tweeting right now." Charlamagne then pressed Kodak to reveal why he wasn't instead trying to out-rap Wayne, a question Kodak clearly wasn't feeling as he responded simply with, like, 10 straight seconds of complete silence.

In an Instagram post earlier this week, Kodak outlined the stipulations of his fight challenge. "We finna get in the ring, we finna fight," he said in a post that has since been deleted. "Me and Lil Wayne. I'm finna knock that stupid ass n**** out." If Wayne wins this hypothetical match, Kodak said, he can continue calling himself the best rapper alive:

Catch the full Breakfast Club interview, which also includes Kodak's thoughts on Master P and accidental exposure, at the top of the page.