Bo Jackson says he would have never played football had he known more about head injuries
Bo Jackson: I never would have played football
Bo Jackson: I never would have played football Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl Sarkisian leaves Alabama to become Falcons OC Sources: LaFleur likely to be named Rams OC Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Oh, baby: Parents call pre-rally newborn Brady One night showed how close (and how far) the Cowboys are from Super Bowl Seahawks can take valuable lessons away from Super Bowl LI Plenty on to-do list for 49ers' Kyle Shanahan, John Lynch Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Jerry Rice on Larry Fitzgerald's decision: 'I hope he's at peace with it' Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. 2 Related Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win Potential QB options for the Browns in 2017 Chiefs can beat Super Bowl teams -- in regular season Terrell Owens shouldn't hurt Calvin Johnson's HOF chances, but first ballot is no lock Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Worst 'bad beats' of the 2016-17 NFL season Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Steelers should stop giving up draft picks for other teams' cornerbacks Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Dominique Foxworth fears the unknown risks associated with football and head injuries but also appreciates the life lessons football can offer the youth. (2:04) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment If Bo only knew back then. Former two-sport star Bo Jackson told USA Today Sports in a wide-ranging interview that he never would have played football if he had known more about the injury risks. "If I knew back then what I know now," Jackson told USA Today Sports, "I would have never played football. Never. I wish I had known about all of those head injuries, but no one knew that. And the people that did know that, they wouldn't tell anybody." Jackson emerged as nothing short of a sports and cultural icon -- in part due to Nike's "Bo Knows" ad campaign -- during his athletic career in the late '80s and early '90s. After winning the Heisman Trophy at Auburn, Jackson played football for the then-Los Angeles Raiders and baseball for the Kansas City Royals . He remains the only person to be selected as both an MLB All-Star and an NFL Pro Bowler. Jackson suffered a serious hip injury in 1991 against the Cincinnati Bengals that ended his football career. "The game has gotten so violent, so rough. We're so much more educated on this CTE stuff [chronic traumatic encephalopathy], there's no way I would ever allow my kids to play football today," Jackson said. "Even though I love the sport, I'd smack them in the mouth if they said they wanted to play football. "I'd tell them, 'Play baseball, basketball, soccer, golf, just anything but football.'" After rehabbing the injury suffered against the Bengals, Jackson returned to baseball for several more seasons with the Chicago White Sox and the California Angels. Although his career on the gridiron was cut short, Jackson said he "wouldn't change a thing." "I have no regrets," he said. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Dominique Foxworth fears the unknown risks associated with football and head injuries but also appreciates the life lessons football can offer the youth. (2:04)

If Bo only knew back then.

Former two-sport star Bo Jackson told USA Today Sports in a wide-ranging interview that he never would have played football if he had known more about the injury risks.

"If I knew back then what I know now," Jackson told USA Today Sports, "I would have never played football. Never. I wish I had known about all of those head injuries, but no one knew that. And the people that did know that, they wouldn't tell anybody."

Jackson emerged as nothing short of a sports and cultural icon -- in part due to Nike's "Bo Knows" ad campaign -- during his athletic career in the late '80s and early '90s. After winning the Heisman Trophy at Auburn, Jackson played football for the then-Los Angeles Raiders and baseball for the Kansas City Royals.

Bo Jackson's football career was cut short after a serious hip injury in 1991. Getty Images

He remains the only person to be selected as both an MLB All-Star and an NFL Pro Bowler.

Jackson suffered a serious hip injury in 1991 against the Cincinnati Bengals that ended his football career.

"The game has gotten so violent, so rough. We're so much more educated on this CTE stuff [chronic traumatic encephalopathy], there's no way I would ever allow my kids to play football today," Jackson said. "Even though I love the sport, I'd smack them in the mouth if they said they wanted to play football.

"I'd tell them, 'Play baseball, basketball, soccer, golf, just anything but football.'"

After rehabbing the injury suffered against the Bengals, Jackson returned to baseball for several more seasons with the Chicago White Sox and the California Angels.

Although his career on the gridiron was cut short, Jackson said he "wouldn't change a thing."

"I have no regrets," he said.