People Are Dragging Paul Ryan After He Dabbed At A Town Hall On Repealing The Affordable Care Act
People Are Dragging Paul Ryan After He Dabbed At A Town Hall On Repealing The Affordable Care Act
So, Paul Ryan dabbed Thursday night. You honestly don’t need much more context than that, but here it is. At a congressional swearing-in earlier this month, a congressman’s teenage son dabbed in a photo with Speaker Ryan. He had no idea what was going on and asked the boy if he was sneezing. On Thursday night, at a CNN town hall, Paul Ryan defended his record on knowing what a dab is. By dabbing. People found it an odd contrast to the tone of the town hall, which had largely focused on the GOP’s goal of repealing Obamacare. When the elderly people can't afford their medication. Oh woah Paul Ryan is so cool he dabbed on television. Not so cool that he wants to repeal healthcare for 20 million Americans. Ryan:We're going to repeal the ACA!
Tapper: How do you plan to replace it?
Ryan: hahaha look at me dab “Paul Ryan just ended the Dab,” many said. Paul Ryan just ended The Dab. So first the Affordable Care Act and now The Dab. 2017 is off to a rough start. Paul Ryan just dabbed.

The dab is now the singularly most offensive gesture I've ever seen. Please retire it.

Right now.

#RyanTownHall No one could really believe what they were seeing. DEVELOPING: PAUL RYAN: "I ACTUALLY DO KNOW WHAT A 'DAB' IS" I feel like I shouldn't have to tell Paul Ryan not to dab. Nor did they want to believe it. "Did you hear that Paul Ryan dabbed?"

me: "I do know what a dab is." -- Paul Ryan. 

Well, we had a good run. I just saw Paul Ryan dab. Wake me up next year. Gonna start over now. “Paul Ryan is out here dabbing while your health insurance burns,” one person said. Paul Ryan is out here dabbing while your health insurance burns In exchange for repealing your health insurance Paul Ryan will come to hospital bedside and Dab ♩♪ I sneezed on the beat and the beat got sicker / the beat depended on the ACA for insurance and will now die of t… https://t.co/urV3ud9f1l   Before They March: Three Women On Why They’re Going...    Dr. Luke Says Kesha Owes Him $1.3 Million

1. So, Paul Ryan dabbed Thursday night.

You honestly don’t need much more context than that, but here it is.

At a congressional swearing-in earlier this month, a congressman’s teenage son dabbed in a photo with Speaker Ryan. He had no idea what was going on and asked the boy if he was sneezing.

On Thursday night, at a CNN town hall, Paul Ryan defended his record on knowing what a dab is. By dabbing.

ID: 10321887