Gina Rodriguez Reminds Us Fierceness Has Nothing To Do With Size
Gina Rodriguez Reminds Us Fierceness Has Nothing To Do With Size
If you missed the Golden Globes red carpet , you likely didn’t see tinseltown goddess Gina Rodriguez in her Naeem Khan dress. Here’s a slow-motion tribute to the dress the actress posted on Instagram , with an accompanying dramatic tune, that proves how amazing the “Jane The Virgin” star looked (as always).  Just saw this and I'm going to be real, I should have stolen that dress. Or got married that night. Or slept in the dress. Something. Stolen the dress. Is it too late for me to steal this dress @naeemkhannyc ?!? A video posted by Gina Rodriguez (@hereisgina) on The following day a fan tweeted at the actress about her gorgeous dress but lamented that she’d have to lose weight in order to “rock it” like the star. On Tuesday, Rodriguez responded and reminded her that size has nothing to do with beauty. @HereIsGina That dress was FIERCE!!!! I want one myself, but I gotta lose weight first to rock it like you girl.  Stunning!! Girl you ain't gotta lose nothing! Trust me. Fierce is fierce no matter what size. Remember it. Write it down. Then walk with your goodness. https://t.co/oGcOD5V6Xq ”Girl you ain’t gotta lose nothing!,” the actress tweeted back. “Trust me. Fierce is fierce no matter what size. Remember it. Write it down. Then walk with your goodness.” It’s an important lesson the fan seemed to appreciate : “I’m feeling great after reading your tweet. Thank you for schooling me but in an inspiring way.” @HereIsGina I gotta be honest, I'm feeling great after reading your tweet.  Thank you for schooling me but in an inspiring way. Gina, you’re our body positivity shero. Give yourself a hand. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Meet The Real-Life Superheroes Fighting In The Name Of Body Positivity       Share this slide:       MORE:

Just saw this and I'm going to be real, I should have stolen that dress. Or got married that night. Or slept in the dress. Something. Stolen the dress. Is it too late for me to steal this dress @naeemkhannyc ?!?

A video posted by Gina Rodriguez (@hereisgina) on Jan 10, 2017 at 10:21am PST