Battle for Mosul: Iraqi forces reach second bridge, storm strategic university complex, military chief says



Battle for Mosul: Iraqi forces reach second bridge, storm strategic university complex, military chief says

Posted

Iraqi special forces have stormed the Mosul University complex in the city's north-east and pushed forward to reach another bridge across the Tigris river, beating Islamic State (IS) militants further back, the military says.

Key points: Special forces say university is most important Islamic State base in the east

Witnesses reported bulldozers smashing through a campus wall with rocket launchers

Western Mosul assault is expected to restart after the eastern bank is secured

The militants were fighting back at the university, which they seized when they took over the city in 2014, and there were heavy clashes inside the campus, witnesses said.

Iraqi forces have recaptured most districts in eastern Mosul in nearly three months of a US-backed offensive.

Senior Iraqi Counter-Terrorism Service (CTS) officer Sami al-Aridhi said the university was the most important IS base in the eastern half of the city.

Iraqi forces aim to take full control of the eastern bank of the Tigris river, which bisects Mosul from north to south, before they can launch attacks on the west, which IS still fully holds.

Driving the ultra-hardline group out of its Mosul stronghold will probably spell the end for the Iraqi side of its self-styled caliphate that stretches across areas of Iraq and Syria.

"The operation today which took the terrorist elements by surprise was the storming of the University of Mosul," Mr al-Aridhi said.

He said the CTS had taken over a hill overlooking parts of the campus, including the technical college.

"Forces are heading into the depths of the university," he said.

Earlier in the day, bulldozers smashed through a wall surrounding the campus and dozens of CTS troops sprinted through carrying rocket-propelled grenade launchers, according to witnesses.

West Mosul assaults to begin after east bank secured

An Iraqi officer said army units backed by air strikes had also taken control of the Hadba district, north of the university, and would aid the assault on the complex.

The recapture of the university would be an important gain because it would enable further advances as it overlooks areas closer to the river, another commander said this week.

In a separate advance further south in the city, other elite CTS units reached the second bridge, also called Freedom Bridge, one of five across the Tigris, a military statement reported by state TV said.

Iraqi forces have now reached Mosul's two southern-most bridges, having battled their way to the fourth bridge several days ago.

Assaults on the western half of Mosul are expected to begin once Iraqi forces have secured the east bank.

All the bridges have been hit by US coalition air strikes in an effort to hamper IS militants' movement across the city.

US and Iraqi military officials say IS has caused further damage to at least two of them to try to hamper any Iraqi advance across the river.

The US-backed campaign to drive IS out of Mosul, involving a 100,000-strong force of Iraqi troops, Kurdish fighters and Shiite militias, began in October.

Reuters

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, iraq