McCain: A Lot of Media Coverage of Obama Was 'Borderline Propaganda'

McCain: A Lot of Media Coverage of Obama Was 'Borderline Propaganda' // // // In a new "60 Minutes" interview , President Barack Obama said that his administration could have done a better job "shaping public opinion." Obama explained that his campaigns were "very effective" at getting his message out, but then his administration "lost the PR battle" in terms of governing. . @POTUS tells #60Minutes there were times during his presidency where he "lost the PR battle," Sunday: https://t.co/EUDAEXylxt — 60 Minutes (@60Minutes) January 12, 2017 "I’ve said this before, but it’s worth repeating. Because this is on me. Part of the job description is also shaping public opinion. And we were very effective, and I was very effective, in shaping public opinion around my campaigns," he said. "But there were big stretches, while governing, where even though we were doing the right thing, we weren’t able to mobilize public opinion firmly enough behind us to weaken the resolve of the Republicans to stop opposing us or to cooperate with us. And there were times during my presidency where I lost the PR battle." The "Outnumbered" hosts reacted this afternoon, with Meghan McCain arguing that the mainstream media largely gave the Obama administration a pass. "I think history will reflect that a lot of his coverage was borderline propaganda in supporting [him] and all of his failed policies over and over again," said McCain, adding that it's "weird" to hear Obama focus on this point. "You have to take some responsibility for your failed policies," she concluded. Brian Kilmeade argued that Obama was "tone-deaf" for believing he could push through his agenda without making deals with Republicans. "He didn't deal. He felt as though his megaphone was good enough." Watch the full discussion above.

In a new "60 Minutes" interview, President Barack Obama said that his administration could have done a better job "shaping public opinion."

Obama explained that his campaigns were "very effective" at getting his message out, but then his administration "lost the PR battle" in terms of governing.

.@POTUS tells #60Minutes there were times during his presidency where he "lost the PR battle," Sunday: https://t.co/EUDAEXylxt — 60 Minutes (@60Minutes) January 12, 2017

"I’ve said this before, but it’s worth repeating. Because this is on me. Part of the job description is also shaping public opinion. And we were very effective, and I was very effective, in shaping public opinion around my campaigns," he said.

"But there were big stretches, while governing, where even though we were doing the right thing, we weren’t able to mobilize public opinion firmly enough behind us to weaken the resolve of the Republicans to stop opposing us or to cooperate with us. And there were times during my presidency where I lost the PR battle."

The "Outnumbered" hosts reacted this afternoon, with Meghan McCain arguing that the mainstream media largely gave the Obama administration a pass.

"I think history will reflect that a lot of his coverage was borderline propaganda in supporting [him] and all of his failed policies over and over again," said McCain, adding that it's "weird" to hear Obama focus on this point.

"You have to take some responsibility for your failed policies," she concluded.

Brian Kilmeade argued that Obama was "tone-deaf" for believing he could push through his agenda without making deals with Republicans.

"He didn't deal. He felt as though his megaphone was good enough."

Watch the full discussion above.

Sheriff: Baby Abducted from FL Hospital 18 Years Ago Found Alive in SC

Cavuto to CNN: 'You're Experiencing What We've Been Living for Last 8 Years'

Report: George Soros Lost Nearly a Billion Dollars in the Market After Trump Win