Sheriff: Baby Abducted from FL Hospital 18 Years Ago Found Alive in SC

Sheriff: Baby Abducted from FL Hospital 18 Years Ago Found Alive in SC // // // UPDATE: Kamiyah Mobley, who was abducted as a newborn from a FL hospital in 1998, has been found alive in SC https://t.co/fjwBkBGL0c  pic.twitter.com/6qpNzph6Gp — WSMV-TV, Nashville (@WSMV) January 13, 2017 Florida authorities made a startling announcement this morning, confirming that a baby stolen from a Jacksonville hospital in 1998 has been found alive. Jacksonville Sheriff Mike Williams, along with state and FBI officials, said today that Kamiyah Mobley has been located in South Carolina, The Florida Times-Union reported . Mobley was snatched from her mother's hospital room just hours after her birth by a woman who posed as a nurse. Authorities said Mobley is living under a new identity, but did not disclose that name. They said she appears to be a healthy 18-year-old and that DNA tests were performed to confirm her real identity. The woman living with Mobley, Gloria Williams, 51, was arrested and is charged with kidnapping and interference with custody. After the abduction, authorities could only release composite sketches of the infant, since no photos yet existed. The case was featured nationally and on "America's Most Wanted," with authorities checking on more than 2,000 leads. A tipster eventually contacted the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, disclosing that Mobley could be alive and living in South Carolina. The sheriff said they still have many unanswered questions about the case, including Gloria Williams' motive. The Mobley family brought a lawsuit against the hospital after the abduction and settled it for $1.5 million.

UPDATE: Kamiyah Mobley, who was abducted as a newborn from a FL hospital in 1998, has been found alive in SC https://t.co/fjwBkBGL0c pic.twitter.com/6qpNzph6Gp — WSMV-TV, Nashville (@WSMV) January 13, 2017

Florida authorities made a startling announcement this morning, confirming that a baby stolen from a Jacksonville hospital in 1998 has been found alive.

Jacksonville Sheriff Mike Williams, along with state and FBI officials, said today that Kamiyah Mobley has been located in South Carolina, The Florida Times-Union reported.

Mobley was snatched from her mother's hospital room just hours after her birth by a woman who posed as a nurse.

Authorities said Mobley is living under a new identity, but did not disclose that name. They said she appears to be a healthy 18-year-old and that DNA tests were performed to confirm her real identity.

The woman living with Mobley, Gloria Williams, 51, was arrested and is charged with kidnapping and interference with custody.

After the abduction, authorities could only release composite sketches of the infant, since no photos yet existed.

The case was featured nationally and on "America's Most Wanted," with authorities checking on more than 2,000 leads.

A tipster eventually contacted the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, disclosing that Mobley could be alive and living in South Carolina.

The sheriff said they still have many unanswered questions about the case, including Gloria Williams' motive.

The Mobley family brought a lawsuit against the hospital after the abduction and settled it for $1.5 million.

Read more on this breaking story, here.

Krispy Kreme Employee Writes 'Black Lives Matter' on Officer's Order

Rosie O'Donnell Supports 'Martial Law' to Delay Trump's Inauguration

Report: Obama Family Dog, Sunny, Bit 18-Year-Old White House Guest