Review: The Best Thing About OK Jaanu Is Its Casual Approach To An Everyday, Believable Love Story
The Best Thing About OK Jaanu Is Its Casual Approach To An Everyday, Believable Love Story
Review: The Best Thing About OK Jaanu Is Its Casual Approach To An Everyday, Believable Love Story Summary: Shaad Ali's debut film was a delightful and tender exploration of how equations in a relationship change when a couple moves from being lovers to being married. offers a similar kind of experience. Incidentally, both are remakes of Mani Rathnam's films, and respectively. stands out for its simple, matter-of-fact treatment of a slice of life love story. It subtly yet definitively brings up the difference between how love and romance are perceived by couples belonging to two different generations. The story truly reflects the times we live in. Adi (Aditya Roy Kapur), a game designer spots Tara (Shraddha Kapoor), a budding architect at a railway station and bumps into her again at a common friend's wedding. Both have one thing in common - they are ambitious and want to focus on their respective careers. The two are attracted to each other and soon decide to move in together after they manage to convince Adi's landlord (Naseeruddin Shah). The old man is an outwardly gruff man but an exceptionally tender and loving husband to his wife (Leela Samson), who's suffering from Alzheimer's. Half the battle for this film is won because of Mani Rathnam's screenplay, Gulzar's dialogues, A R Rahman's music and of course, Ravi K Chandran's dreamy cinematography. Shaad wisely doesn't tamper with the original too much, but at points one wishes he did. Shraddha Kapoor struggles to portray Tara's slightly complex but endearing character. Aditya Roy Kapur, however, surprises with the ease with which he carries off his character. What works for the lead pair is the chemistry and comfort they evidently share with each other. Naseeruddin Shah's subdued yet effective performance leaves you asking for more and Samson gives good support. OK Jaanu manages to warm your heart without resorting to any over the top situations or forced drama, and best of all, any unnecessary display of mush. It is the casual approach to this everyday, absolutely believable love story that makes it easy and entertaining viewing. Watch it for sure if you like romantic films.

Review: The Best Thing About OK Jaanu Is Its Casual Approach To An Everyday, Believable Love Story Hindi 3.5/5 Romance 100 % 1 Votes WILL WATCH (1) MAY BE (0) WON'T WATCH (0) Thank You For Selecting Your Interest, We Have Recorded Successfully

Summary:

Shaad Ali's debut film Saathiya was a delightful and tender exploration of how equations in a relationship change when a couple moves from being lovers to being married. Ok Jaanu offers a similar kind of experience. Incidentally, both are remakes of Mani Rathnam's films, Alaypayuthe and O Kadhal Kanmani respectively.

Youtube

OK Jaanu stands out for its simple, matter-of-fact treatment of a slice of life love story. It subtly yet definitively brings up the difference between how love and romance are perceived by couples belonging to two different generations. The story truly reflects the times we live in.

Adi (Aditya Roy Kapur), a game designer spots Tara (Shraddha Kapoor), a budding architect at a railway station and bumps into her again at a common friend's wedding. Both have one thing in common - they are ambitious and want to focus on their respective careers. The two are attracted to each other and soon decide to move in together after they manage to convince Adi's landlord (Naseeruddin Shah). The old man is an outwardly gruff man but an exceptionally tender and loving husband to his wife (Leela Samson), who's suffering from Alzheimer's.

YouTube

Half the battle for this film is won because of Mani Rathnam's screenplay, Gulzar's dialogues, A R Rahman's music and of course, Ravi K Chandran's dreamy cinematography. Shaad wisely doesn't tamper with the original too much, but at points one wishes he did. Shraddha Kapoor struggles to portray Tara's slightly complex but endearing character. Aditya Roy Kapur, however, surprises with the ease with which he carries off his character. What works for the lead pair is the chemistry and comfort they evidently share with each other.

Youtube

Naseeruddin Shah's subdued yet effective performance leaves you asking for more and Samson gives good support.

OK Jaanu manages to warm your heart without resorting to any over the top situations or forced drama, and best of all, any unnecessary display of mush. It is the casual approach to this everyday, absolutely believable love story that makes it easy and entertaining viewing.

Watch it for sure if you like romantic films.

Synopsis:

Lead Cast: