UK severe weather: Relief for east coast as tidal wave fails to wreak chaos
UK severe weather: Relief for east coast as tidal wave fails to wreak chaos
lood-threatened residents expressed relief on parts of Britain's east coast in the early hours of Saturday as a feared storm surge failed to deliver the chaos expected. An RAF spy plane had been scrambled to check eastern coastal defences and thousands of homes were evacuated amid fears of flooding along much of the Britain coast. More than 10 areas of the UK had been placed on the highest flood alert, where flooding poses a threat to life, as wintry storms battered the country. here were fears of mass flooding by huge tidal waves travelling along the eastern edge of the country. But in the early hours of Saturday, the remaining residents in a rest centre in Jaywick, Essex, were told they could return to their homes after no signs of flooding. harles Osborne, 52, from Great Yarmouth, said: "The river did get pretty high but I didn't think it would ever go over the walls. I guess it was a lot of panicking but you can't be too careful." Deputy Chief Constable Matthew Horne defended the warnings to residents, saying they were grounded in science and advice from the Environment Agency (EA) and the Met Office. "We prepare for the worst case scenario and we would be happy to take the same decision again should we be faced with the same advice as we have had over the last 36 hours," he added. The Ministry of Defence sent the Sentinel R1 aircraft to inspect defences to give an early warning if any were breached. t came as police arrested a man for public order offences after he jumped into a river in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk. Officers were alerted to a man acting dangerously next to the River Yare near Haven Bridge at around 9.10pm. When asked to move away from the water for his own safety, the man jumped in. Police said he was recovered from the water immediately and arrested. n Essex, the village of Jaywick began being evacuated from 7am on Friday in preparation for the first storm surge expected to hit the area at midday. The MoD sent an extra 100 troops to Great Yarmouth at 10am to evacuate 5,000 homes. Around 80 people were also evacuated from the village of Walcott, Norfolk Police said. But officials warned many people had chosen to stay at home. Essex Police said they had knocked on around 2,000 doors but just 140 people had registered for a rest centre set up in the Tendring Educational Centre. hief Inspector Russ Cole said he was "extremely grateful" to those who had evacuated ahead of the possible tidal surge. The coastal village of Jaywick escaped a deluge of sea water as the high tide passed in the early hours and did not breach the wall as expected. Kevin Cripps, 52, said he "did not expect it to flood" but thought the emergency services' response was appropriate, adding: "They have been absolutely marvellous." "I told the police I was not leaving and they were fair about it." A manager Claire Beecroft warned walkers to be wary on coastal paths and promenades with the "unsettled" weather continuing on Saturday. The Chief Fire Officers Association said it had mobilised 15 fire and rescue services to assist in Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Humberside. About 100 soldiers from the Catterick Army base were also deployed to Skegness, the Ministry of Defence said. It comes as Scotland and the North of England were covered in a blanket of snow. The Met Office had issued severe weather warnings across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland for combinations of high winds, snow and ice. he Environment Agency's 17 severe flood warnings had been in place for coastal areas of Essex and Suffolk while dozens of flood warnings were imposed as the east coast braced itself for a storm surge. The warnings took in Clacton to Lee Wick, West Mersea, The Strood and adjacent marshland, and tidal River Stour at Mistley, including the Quay and the Walls, all in Essex. Norfolk Police said residents in around 5,000 properties had been urged to evacuate their homes, a figure which could rise to 7,000, while Suffolk police had identified around 1,880 properties at risk. oastal communities in Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex were told they should be prepared for large waves and possible flooding. he Ministry of Defence said about 100 soldiers from the Catterick army base have been deployed to Skegness on the Lincolnshire coast where about 3,000 residents have been urged to leave their homes or move upstairs. Suffolk Police said specific areas of the coast had been identified as being at high risk of flooding - taking in around 1,100 properties which are likely to be evacuated. Good morning from #SouthFerriby . A 1.7 mile long temporary flood barrier is protecting the village. High tide expected at 06:44 #tidalsurge  pic.twitter.com/csuKzP6Lhl t around midday on Friday, the Environment Agency was anticipating severe flooding in Felixstowe Ferry and Bawdsey Quay, Felixstowe Ferry Hamlet and the Deben Marshes, isolated riverside properties on the Deben Estuary and tidal Orwell at Ipswich Quay. t around 9pm there was severe flooding anticipated in Lowestoft seafront and docks, the north bank of Lake Lothing, Oulton Broad near Mutford Lock, Snape, Iken and surrounding marshland, and Southwold and surrounding marshes. Our teams are out today preparing in case of coastal #flooding . Please stay #floodaware . Check our flood #map  https://t.co/XxnHZpsv7U  #flood  pic.twitter.com/jTcbs0KUO3 orfolk Police had said floods were a strong possibility in the region, and the force was anticipating the worst to be in Yarmouth, Walcott, King's Lynn, Salthouse and Wells, between 7am and 10am, and 8pm to 10pm on Friday. Temperatures plummeted with readings of -2C in parts of the East and South East during the early hours of Friday. Two lorries jack-knifed in the icy conditions causing closures on the A23 in Handcross, West Sussex, and the M20 in Kent. Emergency vehicles head to Jaywick in advance of possible flooding @TheGazette  @ClactonGazette  pic.twitter.com/45zCdOIGl0 A national duty manager Mark Sitton-Kent said: "The combination of gale-force winds, high tides, dangerous waves carrying rocks and a coastal surge means parts of the east coast are extremely dangerous. "We have issued severe flood warnings and urge everyone to check their flood risk and ensure they are in a safe place."  idal gates on the east coast have been closed ahead of the high tides. Floods minister Therese Coffey said: "Our absolute priority is protecting lives, homes and businesses from the threat of coastal flooding currently facing the east coast. "That is why we have soldiers on the ground helping to warn and evacuate people alongside the emergency services and Environment Agency teams, who are putting up temporary defences. "We're working closely across government to monitor the situation as it develops and I ask people to check their flood risk, keep a close eye on updates and follow any advice from the Environment Agency and the emergency services." nvironment Agency chief executive Sir James Bevan said he did not "think" the storm would be as powerful as that which caused the east coast flood of 1953, which has been described as the worst national peacetime disaster to hit the UK, but said there could be "potentially significant effects" including flooding. e told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It's very important to underline that there are two high tides today coming down the east coast, north to south. "The first is coming in at the moment slightly under the height that we expected, the second, due this evening, may come out slightly higher than has been anticipated. "And so we will stay very active throughout the day on the ground, we will continue to warn and inform the communities that are at risk, and I would like to urge everybody to remain vigilant and to continue to follow our flood warnings." ritish Red Cross staff and volunteers across the east coast of England have set up 10 centres for evacuees and have so far dealt with dozens of people. Mike Adamson, Chief Executive of the British Red Cross, said: “Our thoughts are with all the families that are affected at the moment. Being evacuated from your home can be incredibly stressful, especially when you don’t know what you may be going back to. Our trained emergency response volunteers are already helping in rest centres and remain on standby across the country to support communities and will be on hand as long as they are needed.” Meanwhile snow and strong wind made driving hazardous in the North East. he official North East Traffic News Twitter feed reported there were up to 50 cars stuck on a slip road off the A1 at Etal Lane, Newcastle. It also reported a lorry had overturned, blocking the road onto the main carriageway of the A1 at Brownieside, Northumberland. n the A19, which links Teesside to Wearside and Tyneside, there was a crash involving 15 vehicles on the northbound carriageway at Peterlee. Northern Powergrid said there were 600 homes in Hebburn, South Tyneside, without power.

Flood-threatened residents expressed relief on parts of Britain's east coast in the early hours of Saturday as a feared storm surge failed to deliver the chaos expected.

An RAF spy plane had been scrambled to check eastern coastal defences and thousands of homes were evacuated amid fears of flooding along much of the Britain coast.

More than 10 areas of the UK had been placed on the highest flood alert, where flooding poses a threat to life, as wintry storms battered the country.