People Have Giant Cats Living In Their Houses And Oh My Goodness
People Have Giant Cats Living In Their Houses And Oh My Goodness
Savannah cats are incredible.  View on Instagram They were bred by crossing the domestic kitty with an African wildcat called a serval. Breeding with wild cats is controversial, as many people feel the animals are too wild to be pets. Here’s a serval hunting. They prey on springbok and gazelles. And here’s a serval lying down.  View on Instagram Savannah owners describe them as “a cat that looks like a leopard with the temperament of a dog.” But other people – including the UK animal charity the RSPCA – say they still have many wild cat traits and are too dangerous for the home . They also argue that it is unfair on the animals as domestic life is at odds with their natural instincts. They certainly look quite strange just going about their business.  View on Instagram Plus they’re huuuge for cats. Look at this guy!  View on Instagram And they’re expensive too: It costs thousands of $$$ to buy one. So now we know what they are, let’s just look in awe at a bunch of Savannah cats in their natural habitat: people’s living rooms.  View on Instagram I mean, honestly. HOW ARE YOU REAL?  View on Instagram Amazing night safari pics of a wildcat .  View on Instagram This cat is the size of a desk.  View on Instagram He’s exhausted from hunting your feet all day. “Oh, hi, this is my cat…and this is my cat.”  View on Instagram The legs on ‘em.  View on Instagram Ohhh, uh-oh. Baby Savannah.  View on Instagram Hi, big ears. Lil’ sunbather.  View on Instagram More things you should know: Some Savannah cats are ginger.  View on Instagram He’s like a mythical beast. The ginger ones have crazy spots.  View on Instagram Also people walk their Savannahs on leads. Like dogs. Because they’re the size of dogs.  View on Instagram Good fellow. Walk them up trees, whatever.  View on Instagram Their ears are extraordinary.  View on Instagram Look at his tongue.  View on Instagram Look at her feet.  View on Instagram Look at this guy.  View on Instagram Look at those eyes.  View on Instagram That brow.  View on Instagram A wildcat, just chilling on your sofa.  View on Instagram What a thought.  View on Instagram What a thought.  View on Instagram If you are considering getting a cat, please rehome a rescue cat. Check out Cats Protection in the UK for kitties looking for homes right now. Breeding or buying half-wild cats is controversial and discouraged by many animal charities. You should do proper research before considering taking on any pet. Can’t get enough cats? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s “This Week in Cats” newsletter and you’ll get all the cutest kitty news every Friday!

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.