Europe migrants crisis: UN alarmed at asylum seekers dying of cold, 'dire' situation in Greece



Europe migrants crisis: UN alarmed at asylum seekers dying of cold, 'dire' situation in Greece

Posted

Refugees and migrants are dying in Europe's cold snap and governments must do more to help them rather than pushing them back from borders and subjecting them to violence, the UN refugee agency UNHCR says.

Key points: UN says 'it is about saving lives not red tape and bureaucracy'

Dozens of deaths have been reported through Europe in relation to the cold

Asylum seekers report having clothing confiscated in the Western Balkans

"Children are particularly prone to respiratory illnesses at a time like this," Sarah Crowe, a spokeswoman for the UN children's agency UNICEF told a briefing in Geneva.

"It's about saving lives, not about red tape and keeping to bureaucratic arrangements.

"The dire situation right now is Greece."

To date, dozens of asylum seeker deaths have been reported across Europe in relation to the cold since late last year.

UNHCR spokeswoman Cecile Pouilly detailed five deaths specifically connected to the cold and said about 1,000 people including children remained in unheated tents and dormitories on the Greek island of Samos, calling for them to be transferred to shelter on the mainland.

The bodies of two Iraqi men and a young Somali woman were found close to the Turkish border in Bulgaria and two Somali teenagers were hospitalised with frostbite after five days in a forest, Ms Pouilly said — the body of a young Pakistani man was found along the same border in late December.

Meanwhile, 20-year-old Afghan man reportedly died after crossing the Evros River on the Greece-Turkey land border at night when temperatures were below -10 degrees Celsius, while the body of a young Pakistani man was found on the Turkish side of the border with Bulgaria.

"Given the harsh winter conditions, we are particularly concerned by reports that authorities in all countries along the Western Balkans route continue to push back refugees and migrants from inside their territory to neighbouring countries," Ms Pouilly said.

Some refugees and migrants said police subjected them to violence and many said their phones were confiscated or destroyed, preventing them from calling for help, she said.

"Some even reported items of clothing being confiscated thus further exposing them to the harsh winter conditions," she said.

"These practices are simply unacceptable and must be stopped."

Reuters

Topics: refugees, weather, death, european-union, greece