At 30, Rams' Sean McVay Joins List Of Youngest Coaches Ever In Major Pro Sports
At 30, Rams' Sean McVay Joins List Of Youngest Coaches Ever In Major Pro Sports
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Erik Matuszewski       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. At the ripe age of 30, Sean McVay is the youngest head coach in modern National Football League history, hired by the Los Angeles Rams to replace the fired Jeff Fisher. Sean McVay becomes the youngest coach in NFL history, at age 31. (Photo credit: Los Angeles Rams) McVay spent the past three years as offensive coordinator of the Washington Redskins and comes from a football family, as his father and uncle both played college football and his grandfather, John, helped build the San Francisco 49ers' rosters that won five Super Bowl titles in the 1980s and 1990s. McVay supplanted Lane Kiffin as the youngest coach in NFL history (Kiffin was 31 when hired by the Raiders in 2007), but he's nowhere near the youngest head coach among the major professional sports. The following are the youngest head coaches (and manager) from the National Basketball Association, National Hockey League and Major League Baseball: DeBusschere during his playing career with the Knicks in 1971. (AP Photo) Dave DeBusschere wasn’t just a Hall of Fame NBA player. In 1964, he celebrated his 25 birthday by losing his debut as player-coach of the Detroit Pistons. It was a rapid ascension for DeBusschere, who just three years earlier had graduated from the University of Detroit Mercy and was a territorial selection of the Pistons in the 1962 draft. His stint as an NBA coach was far from a success, recording a 79-143 record over three seasons before stepping down and focusing solely on his playing career. DeBusschere would go on to win two NBA titles as a player with the New York Knicks. Gary Green became the youngest coach in NHL history two months into the 1979-80 season, taking over the Washington Capitals at age 26 when Danny Belisle was fired. Green had played in the minors for several seasons before coming to the realization that he wasn’t good enough to make the NHL and had no job security. He had worked at hockey camps while in school and at the age of 21 took over as executive director of a well-known hockey school in Canada, helping develop coaching programs. He got into coaching himself and spent several years in the minor leagues before his jump to the NHL while in year one as head coach of the Hersey Bears. He had a 50-78-29 record with the Capitals, falling short of the playoffs on the last day of the season each of his first two years. He was fired after a 1-12 start in 1981-82 and went on to a three-decade run as an NHL broadcaster. Photo credit: National Baseball Hall of Fame Library Lou Boudreau was also known as the Boy Wonder, becoming a hero in Cleveland as both a player and a manager. In 1942, after two seasons as the Indians’ regular shortstop, Boudreau became player/manager of the team at just 24 years old. Boudreau proved almost as adept as a manager as he was as a player, compiling a 728-649 record over nine seasons and leading the Indians to a World Series title in 1948 (at age 30). Boudreau also managed the Boston Red Sox, Kansas City Athletics and Chicago Cubs after his playing career was over, but had a winning record just once in six seasons.  To read more stories like this one, "follow" in my profile above, click here or check me out on Twitter . Ideas for a future story? Drop me an email at ematuszewski24@gmail.com    Trending on {{channel_name}}

At the ripe age of 30, Sean McVay is the youngest head coach in modern National Football League history, hired by the Los Angeles Rams to replace the fired Jeff Fisher.

McVay spent the past three years as offensive coordinator of the Washington Redskins and comes from a football family, as his father and uncle both played college football and his grandfather, John, helped build the San Francisco 49ers' rosters that won five Super Bowl titles in the 1980s and 1990s.

McVay supplanted Lane Kiffin as the youngest coach in NFL history (Kiffin was 31 when hired by the Raiders in 2007), but he's nowhere near the youngest head coach among the major professional sports.

The following are the youngest head coaches (and manager) from the National Basketball Association, National Hockey League and Major League Baseball:

DAVE DEBUSSCHERE (25) - NBA

Dave DeBusschere wasn’t just a Hall of Fame NBA player. In 1964, he celebrated his 25th birthday by losing his debut as player-coach of the Detroit Pistons. It was a rapid ascension for DeBusschere, who just three years earlier had graduated from the University of Detroit Mercy and was a territorial selection of the Pistons in the 1962 draft. His stint as an NBA coach was far from a success, recording a 79-143 record over three seasons before stepping down and focusing solely on his playing career. DeBusschere would go on to win two NBA titles as a player with the New York Knicks.

GARY GREEN (26) - NHL

Gary Green became the youngest coach in NHL history two months into the 1979-80 season, taking over the Washington Capitals at age 26 when Danny Belisle was fired. Green had played in the minors for several seasons before coming to the realization that he wasn’t good enough to make the NHL and had no job security. He had worked at hockey camps while in school and at the age of 21 took over as executive director of a well-known hockey school in Canada, helping develop coaching programs. He got into coaching himself and spent several years in the minor leagues before his jump to the NHL while in year one as head coach of the Hersey Bears. He had a 50-78-29 record with the Capitals, falling short of the playoffs on the last day of the season each of his first two years. He was fired after a 1-12 start in 1981-82 and went on to a three-decade run as an NHL broadcaster.

LOU BOUDREAU (24) – MLB

Lou Boudreau was also known as the Boy Wonder, becoming a hero in Cleveland as both a player and a manager. In 1942, after two seasons as the Indians’ regular shortstop, Boudreau became player/manager of the team at just 24 years old. Boudreau proved almost as adept as a manager as he was as a player, compiling a 728-649 record over nine seasons and leading the Indians to a World Series title in 1948 (at age 30). Boudreau also managed the Boston Red Sox, Kansas City Athletics and Chicago Cubs after his playing career was over, but had a winning record just once in six seasons.

To read more stories like this one, "follow" in my profile above, click here or check me out on Twitter. Ideas for a future story? Drop me an email at ematuszewski24@gmail.com