Business PR And Politics: How Will Trump's 'Endorsement' Affect L.L. Bean?
Business PR And Politics: How Will Trump's 'Endorsement' Affect L.L. Bean?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Cheryl Conner       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The PR world is entering difficult ground. Earlier today, president-elect Donald Trump reacted to controversy over the political contribution of L.L. Bean heiress and board member Linda Bean with a complimentary Tweet, after recent news of her $30,000 contribution to a Trump super PAC. As widely reported, the donation exceeded the allowable total and was therefore illegal. “Thank you to Linda Bean of L.L. Bean for your courage and support. People will support you even more now. Buy L.L.Bean.” Trump's Tweets are uncharted territory in business PR (Image courtesy of Forbes.com) The Tweet was a compliment, right? Effectively, it was anything but. For L.L. Bean, the statement "Buy L.L. Bean" connected the personal contribution to implied political support from the company, too, which has done them no favors. The fear that brands should feel about this situation is real. Last weekend, after a call for L.L. Bean boycotts by anti-Trump coalition Grab Your Wallet, Executive Chairman Shawn Gorman issued a statement on Facebook saying “…we are deeply troubled by the portrayal of L.L.Bean as a supporter of any political agenda. L.L.Bean does not endorse political candidates, take positions on political matters, or make political contributions. Simply put, we stay out of politics.” Additionally, the Statement of Ethics from www.OGE.gov (Office of Government Ethics) says that product endorsements by employees of the Federal Government are illegal. The prohibition doesn’t mention the office of president or president-elect; however, Politico has reported that Obama holds the prohibition to include the president, too. Regardless, does a quip such as “Buy L.L. Bean” constitute an endorsement? More concerning still, what impact does such a statement have on the PR and revenue of a company the president or president-elect mentions, particularly when the remark is not a comment about quality or value, but is stated as a rallying cry in response to a heated political debate? There is somewhat of a precedence to this situation in the 2014 case of Mozilla. Outrage emerged around the discovery that co-founder and incoming CEO Brendan Eich had made a personal donation of $1,000, six years prior to his appointment, in support of anti-gay marriage Proposition 8. Upon his appointment, backlash from the Mozilla community became so heated he was forced to resign just 11 days into the role. As noted in Forbes.com , Eich was not fired and no free speech rights were violated. But with a significant portion of the employee and user base refusing to support him, he was effectively forced to either leave his job or see the organization collapse. The public sentiment created by bad political PR forced a CEO to resign and threatened a company's future. In my opinion (which is shared by every expert I've queried) L.L. Bean was wise to issue an immediate statement to verify that the company holds no political positions, endorses no candidates and has made no political contributions. But having issued that statement (days before the Tweet, in fact) what can the company do now? The current situation is so rare and volatile that nobody knows. Experts offer opinions ranging from "stay quiet, the damage is done," to a proposal by influencer Joe Sinkwitz, Intellifluence , to take out an ad in the NY Times to convey the message that "whether you turn right or left, L.L. Bean is walking beside you." If an ad infuses the right amount of humor, marketer Josh Steimle notes, it could somewhat diffuse the situation by communicating "we didn't look for this attention, but we're going to be polite about it and keep on doing our jobs." Tongue in cheek, online marketer Russ Page noted, "In the world of Trump, a company should do nothing; wait 30 minutes and another circus will rise." He has a point. Humor is tricky, however, and public sentiment is a formidable force. Even with her professional knowledge, a New York-based public relations pro acknowledged that when she recently picked up a piece of apparel and saw an Ivanka Trump label, she instinctively dropped the item and flinched as if she'd touched a chemical fire. We are walking in PR territory that is largely uncharted. President Reagan enjoyed Jelly Bellies. President Obama has admitted to loving his Blackberry. But only hindsight will tell the practical impact, good or bad, of a statement of support or loathing from Trump. For communicators, however, two enduring principles remain clear: In essence, Humor--an ad or PR campaign to reiterate your values--or perhaps a steady drumbeat of news that reinforces your messages and mission could be effective while your attention is high. Don't ignore the situation, but avoid giving additional energy to negative postings based on an implied endorsement or a situation that's false. L.L. Bean has stated and posted its position and should avoid being pressured to repeat it again and again. Yet again, every individual and business should be proactively creating an accurate brand. Nobody is immune to the PR torpedo that is sure to arrive by surprise. No crisis plan can protect you well enough from the "Who'd have thought it?" kind of emergency that comes from left field. If published information makes your position clear and your customers and partners are aware of your genuine nature, that evidence will protect you better than anything you are forced to contrive in the heat of crisis. However, the rules of play remain largely the same. Be proactive. Stay focused. Stay on message. Do not lie or attempt to manipulate the press. If you do these things, you stand the best possible chance of emerging stronger and better from any PR crisis you may eventually face.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The PR world is entering difficult ground. Earlier today, president-elect Donald Trump reacted to controversy over the political contribution of L.L. Bean heiress and board member Linda Bean with a complimentary Tweet, after recent news of her $30,000 contribution to a Trump super PAC. As widely reported, the donation exceeded the allowable total and was therefore illegal.

“Thank you to Linda Bean of L.L. Bean for your courage and support. People will support you even more now. Buy L.L.Bean.”

The Tweet was a compliment, right? Effectively, it was anything but. For L.L. Bean, the statement "Buy L.L. Bean" connected the personal contribution to implied political support from the company, too, which has done them no favors. The fear that brands should feel about this situation is real.

Last weekend, after a call for L.L. Bean boycotts by anti-Trump coalition Grab Your Wallet, Executive Chairman Shawn Gorman issued a statement on Facebook saying “…we are deeply troubled by the portrayal of L.L.Bean as a supporter of any political agenda. L.L.Bean does not endorse political candidates, take positions on political matters, or make political contributions. Simply put, we stay out of politics.”

Additionally, the Statement of Ethics from www.OGE.gov (Office of Government Ethics) says that product endorsements by employees of the Federal Government are illegal. The prohibition doesn’t mention the office of president or president-elect; however, Politico has reported that Obama holds the prohibition to include the president, too. Regardless, does a quip such as “Buy L.L. Bean” constitute an endorsement? More concerning still, what impact does such a statement have on the PR and revenue of a company the president or president-elect mentions, particularly when the remark is not a comment about quality or value, but is stated as a rallying cry in response to a heated political debate?

There is somewhat of a precedence to this situation in the 2014 case of Mozilla. Outrage emerged around the discovery that co-founder and incoming CEO Brendan Eich had made a personal donation of $1,000, six years prior to his appointment, in support of anti-gay marriage Proposition 8.

Upon his appointment, backlash from the Mozilla community became so heated he was forced to resign just 11 days into the role. As noted in Forbes.com, Eich was not fired and no free speech rights were violated. But with a significant portion of the employee and user base refusing to support him, he was effectively forced to either leave his job or see the organization collapse. The public sentiment created by bad political PR forced a CEO to resign and threatened a company's future.

In my opinion (which is shared by every expert I've queried) L.L. Bean was wise to issue an immediate statement to verify that the company holds no political positions, endorses no candidates and has made no political contributions. But having issued that statement (days before the Tweet, in fact) what can the company do now?

The current situation is so rare and volatile that nobody knows. Experts offer opinions ranging from "stay quiet, the damage is done," to a proposal by influencer Joe Sinkwitz, Intellifluence, to take out an ad in the NY Times to convey the message that "whether you turn right or left, L.L. Bean is walking beside you." If an ad infuses the right amount of humor, marketer Josh Steimle notes, it could somewhat diffuse the situation by communicating "we didn't look for this attention, but we're going to be polite about it and keep on doing our jobs." Tongue in cheek, online marketer Russ Page noted, "In the world of Trump, a company should do nothing; wait 30 minutes and another circus will rise." He has a point.

Humor is tricky, however, and public sentiment is a formidable force. Even with her professional knowledge, a New York-based public relations pro acknowledged that when she recently picked up a piece of apparel and saw an Ivanka Trump label, she instinctively dropped the item and flinched as if she'd touched a chemical fire.

We are walking in PR territory that is largely uncharted. President Reagan enjoyed Jelly Bellies. President Obama has admitted to loving his Blackberry. But only hindsight will tell the practical impact, good or bad, of a statement of support or loathing from Trump. For communicators, however, two enduring principles remain clear:

"What does this open up for you?" is still the operative phrase. In essence, if the floodlight is suddenly upon you, what can you do to leverage the situation for good? Be on the record with your genuine message before a crisis begins. Yet again, every individual and business should be proactively creating an accurate brand. Nobody is immune to the PR torpedo that is sure to arrive by surprise. No crisis plan can protect you well enough from the "Who'd have thought it?" kind of emergency that comes from left field. If published information makes your position clear and your customers and partners are aware of your genuine nature, that evidence will protect you better than anything you are forced to contrive in the heat of crisis.

The PR situations businesses are encountering today have never happened before. However, the rules of play remain largely the same. Be proactive. Stay focused. Stay on message. Do not lie or attempt to manipulate the press. If you do these things, you stand the best possible chance of emerging stronger and better from any PR crisis you may eventually face.

Information about Cheryl Snapp Conner's Content University program to help businesses and executives tell their stories better is available here.