Facebook wants to read your THOUGHTS: Secretive division may be developing a mind-reading device
Is Facebook working on MIND READING?


Facebook wants to know your deepest, darkest thoughts.

In April, the site revealed the existence of a new division, known only as 'Building 8' which is dedicated to creating ground-breaking products at the intersection of hardware, software, and content.

And a new job advert posting suggests that the mysterious division could be working on mind-reading technology.

Mark Zuckerberg has previously made his ambitions to create a telepathy system very clear, calling it the 'ultimate communication technology'

WHAT IS BUILDING 8? According to Facebook: 'Building 8 is focused on building new hardware products to advance our mission of connecting the world. 'We bring together world-class experts to develop seemingly impossible products that define new categories. 'We drive innovation in augmented and virtual reality, artificial intelligence, connectivity and other important breakthrough areas. 'Our teams move fast, with aggressive and fixed timelines. 'We extensively create and leverage partnerships with universities, small and large businesses, and set clear objectives for shipping products at scale.'

Facebook posted the adverts on its job site, which can be accessed by the public.

One advert is for a 'brain-computer interface engineer' to work on a '2-year B8 project focused on developing advanced BCI technologies.'

Details on what the job will involve are limited, but the advert adds that one of the key responsibilities will be applying 'machine learning methods, including encoding and decoding models, to neuroimaging and electrophysiological data.'

The second advert is for a 'neural imaging engineer' who will be responsible for 'a project focused on developing novel non-invasive neuroimaging technologies.'

Both jobs are based at the Menlo Park site in California.

These limited descriptions suggest that Building 8 might be working on monitoring how brain activity changes when looking at pictures or videos.

One advert is for a 'brain-computer interface engineer' to work on a '2-year B8 project focused on developing advanced BCI technologies'

Mark Zuckerberg has previously made his ambitions to create a telepathy system very clear, calling it the 'ultimate communication technology.'

He said: 'One day, I believe we'll be able to send full rich thoughts to each other directly using technology.

'You'll just be able to think of something and your friends will immediately be able to experience it too, if you'd like.

'This would be the ultimate communication technology.'