Robin Thicke Accused of Child Abuse Amidst Custody Fight: Report
Robin Thicke Accused of Child Abuse Amidst Custody Fight: Report
Robin Thicke Accused of Child Abuse Amidst Custody Fight: Report  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Thicke denied the accusations and a request to limit his custody was rejected, according to reports. Robin Thicke is reportedly being investigated for child abuse because of reports submitted to the L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services by his son's school. first reported the story Thursday and claims Thicke's ex-wife, actress Paula Patton, filed an emergency request with the court to restrict the singer's contact with their 6-year-old son. Court records confirm that Patton filed an request with the court on Thursday. reports that Patton asked the court to limit Thicke's joint custody and that request was denied. Thicke reportedly denied any abuse. quotes a legal filing in which Thicke says, "On a very rare occasion and only as a last resort, I will use light spanking, but it is consistent with the law -- open hand on the butt. This is the type of discipline to which Paula and I agreed during our marriage." reports that the son told school officials about repeated spankings and punches at the beginning of the year and the school reported the incident to DCFS earlier this month.  A DCFS spokesman tells they can't confirm or deny that an incident was reported. "DCFS does not comment on our possible involvement with clients as we are prohibited by state law from breaching confidentiality," says Neil Zanville. "Confidentiality laws exist to spare families undue public attention while they seek to resolve sensitive family issues. When our agency receives a call to our Child Protection Hotline alleging child abuse, social workers immediately respond, if appropriate, and conduct an investigation to assess child safety and take all necessary precautions to safeguard the well being of the child." Patton and Thicke were high school sweethearts who married in 2005. She filed for divorce in 2014 following reports of the singer's infidelity.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Thicke denied the accusations and a request to limit his custody was rejected, according to reports.

Robin Thicke is reportedly being investigated for child abuse because of reports submitted to the L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services by his son's school.

TMZ first reported the story Thursday and claims Thicke's ex-wife, actress Paula Patton, filed an emergency request with the court to restrict the singer's contact with their 6-year-old son.

Court records confirm that Patton filed an ex parte request with the court on Thursday. TMZ reports that Patton asked the court to limit Thicke's joint custody and that request was denied.

Thicke reportedly denied any abuse. TMZ quotes a legal filing in which Thicke says, "On a very rare occasion and only as a last resort, I will use light spanking, but it is consistent with the law -- open hand on the butt. This is the type of discipline to which Paula and I agreed during our marriage."

TMZ reports that the son told school officials about repeated spankings and punches at the beginning of the year and the school reported the incident to DCFS earlier this month.

A DCFS spokesman tells The Hollywood Reporter they can't confirm or deny that an incident was reported.

"DCFS does not comment on our possible involvement with clients as we are prohibited by state law from breaching confidentiality," says Neil Zanville. "Confidentiality laws exist to spare families undue public attention while they seek to resolve sensitive family issues. When our agency receives a call to our Child Protection Hotline alleging child abuse, social workers immediately respond, if appropriate, and conduct an investigation to assess child safety and take all necessary precautions to safeguard the well being of the child."

Patton and Thicke were high school sweethearts who married in 2005. She filed for divorce in 2014 following reports of the singer's infidelity.

This post originally appeared on The Hollywood Reporter.