Senate probe into election hacking to review possible links between Russia, campaigns
Senate probe into election hacking to review possible links between Russia, campaigns
Senate probe into election hacking to review possible links between Russia, campaigns Updated 0323 GMT (1123 HKT) January 14, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights Friday's announcement makes clear the scope and details about the review Burr and Warner said the committee will hold hearings examining Russian intelligence activity The Senate Intelligence Committee's review of Russian meddling in the 2016 election will include a look at any intelligence "regarding links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns." Comey explains actions to Senate

Story highlights Friday's announcement makes clear the scope and details about the review

Burr and Warner said the committee will hold hearings examining Russian intelligence activity

Washington (CNN) The Senate Intelligence Committee's review of Russian meddling in the 2016 election will include a look at any intelligence "regarding links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns."

Sen. Richard Burr, R-North Carolina, the committee's chairman, and Sen. Mark Warner, D-Virginia, the committee's vice chairman, said in a joint statement that the investigation into alleged Russian interference in the election also will focus on Russian cyberactivity and "active measures" against the US.

It was known that intelligence panels in both chambers of Congress were tapped by Republican leaders to probe the hacking, but Friday's announcement makes clear the scope and details about the review. It is also notable that the announcement was joined by Warner, as Democrats have clamored for a bipartisan look into what role, if any, Russia may have played in the election.

The statement said the committee will produce both a classified and unclassified report on its findings.

Burr and Warner said the committee will hold hearings examining Russian intelligence activity and interview senior officials within both President Barack Obama and President-elect Donald Trump's administrations about the matter, and will issue subpoenas if necessary.

Read More