Brutal Powerbomb in MMA Fight Ends in Worst Way Possible for Guy on Losing End
Brutal Powerbomb in MMA Fight Ends in Worst Way Possible for Guy on Losing End
I'm not sure if this was a spike or not, but jesus https://t.co/EEyj21OmjN No, it's not pro wrestling. It just looks that way. You don't see a lot of powerbombs on the unscripted side of the combat sports world. But fans saw one Friday at Superstar Fight 7, an event airing from Hunan, China. In the third round of his bout, little-known featherweight Buren Wuliji made himself a lot more known when he completed a massive slam on opponent Beno Adamia. As Adamia tried to complete a takedown, Wuliji scooped him up, held him upside down and then dropped him on his head. Powerbomb. As Adamia hit the canvas, his knee inadvertently banged into his face, perhaps cementing the knockout. As of press time, there has been no word from Batista . But should Batista have weighed in, I'm sure he would have marveled at this famous pro-wrestling move being applied (inadvertently or otherwise) in an MMA context. One academic ground strike after the big slam and the ref waved off the action . Holy shit. He picked him up and threw him on his head. Buren Wuliji TKO's Beno Adamia. Superstart Fight 7 https://t.co/RCyMmYVGQN Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Scott Harris Featured Columnist

No, it's not pro wrestling. It just looks that way.

You don't see a lot of powerbombs on the unscripted side of the combat sports world. But fans saw one Friday at Superstar Fight 7, an event airing from Hunan, China.

In the third round of his bout, little-known featherweight Buren Wuliji made himself a lot more known when he completed a massive slam on opponent Beno Adamia.

As Adamia tried to complete a takedown, Wuliji scooped him up, held him upside down and then dropped him on his head. Powerbomb. As Adamia hit the canvas, his knee inadvertently banged into his face, perhaps cementing the knockout.

As of press time, there has been no word from Batista. But should Batista have weighed in, I'm sure he would have marveled at this famous pro-wrestling move being applied (inadvertently or otherwise) in an MMA context.

One academic ground strike after the big slam and the ref waved off the action (warning: language NSFW).



