'Jeopardy!' celebrated the internet last night with meme-themed categories
'Jeopardy!' celebrated the internet last night with meme-themed categories
"I'll take Yas Queen for $800." Somebody said that on Thursday night's episode of . SEE ALSO: The internet is freaking out over this gross 'medium rare' chicken recipe "Yas Queen" was just one of the glorious meme-based categories which appeared on the first round of the popular game show. Other categories included "Keyboard Cat," "Dad Bod" and "What Color is the Dress?" You probably have already put two-and-two together to realize that this means Alex Trebek had to say "yas queen" out loud. To the internet's delight, he did. Allow Jeopardy! to help you discover the meme-ing of life #TodayOnJ ! pic.twitter.com/04NL9UyLZN — Jeopardy! (@Jeopardy) January 13, 2017 "Yas Queen" is one of the categories tonight and everyone has to say it. #Jeopardy — ART (@heyart) January 13, 2017 the categories on jeopardy are all meme related and hearing Alex Trebek say "yas queen" just made my night — Lauren (@l_weathington) January 13, 2017 The categories on Jeopardy are all memes and I just heard Alex Trebek say "yas queen" so I've had enough of had enough of today — Maddy (@maddybif) January 13, 2017 omg the categories on #jeopardy tonight. I heard Alex Trebek say "yas queen" - I can die now. — Kelly (@socialmedium) January 13, 2017 Alex Trebek saying "Yas Queen" needs to be a ringtone — Goldman $tacks (@ErikaBaDoIt) January 13, 2017 Even Twitter agreed that was the best part about the entire meme-filled episode. That's right: Alex Trebek said "yas queen." #Jeopardy  https://t.co/O682e8ie35 — Twitter Moments (@TwitterMoments) January 13, 2017 2017 is already making milestones. BONUS: 5 Fabulous Game Show Facts

"I'll take Yas Queen for $800."

Somebody actually said that on Thursday night's episode of Jeopardy!.

"Yas Queen" was just one of the glorious meme-based categories which appeared on the first round of the popular game show. Other categories included "Keyboard Cat," "Dad Bod" and "What Color is the Dress?"

You probably have already put two-and-two together to realize that this means Alex Trebek had to say "yas queen" out loud. To the internet's delight, he did.

Allow Jeopardy! to help you discover the meme-ing of life #TodayOnJ! pic.twitter.com/04NL9UyLZN — Jeopardy! (@Jeopardy) January 13, 2017

"Yas Queen" is one of the categories tonight and everyone has to say it. #Jeopardy — ART (@heyart) January 13, 2017

the categories on jeopardy are all meme related and hearing Alex Trebek say "yas queen" just made my night — Lauren (@l_weathington) January 13, 2017

The categories on Jeopardy are all memes and I just heard Alex Trebek say "yas queen" so I've had enough of had enough of today — Maddy (@maddybif) January 13, 2017

omg the categories on #jeopardy tonight. I heard Alex Trebek say "yas queen" - I can die now. — Kelly (@socialmedium) January 13, 2017

Alex Trebek saying "Yas Queen" needs to be a ringtone — Goldman $tacks (@ErikaBaDoIt) January 13, 2017

Even Twitter agreed that was the best part about the entire meme-filled episode.

2017 is already making milestones.