19 People Who Are Already Having A Shitty 2017
19 People Who Are Already Having A Shitty 2017
This girl who will think about this moment every day for the rest of her life. And rightly so. MY DENTIST ASKED HIS ASSISTANT TO SUCTION (THE WATER OUT OF MY MOUTH)BUT I THOUGHT HE WAS TALKING TO ME SO I SUCKED HIS FINGER. IM MORTIFIED Charles. When she go to the bathroom so you call her to see what cute emojis you got by your name This kid whose only consolation is his high calcium levels. as if the school uploaded a pic of me writin with a cheese string This girl who was ghosted. Sort of. When u wonder why he's not texting back so U check his location and This weatherman’s daughter. Text from my daughter. Todd. Fucking Todd This guy who received a less-than-discreet present from his graphic designer sister. This woman whose needs were simple. I just wanted some water... This man who is lucky to be alive. My girlfriend's hairclip nearly put me in cardiac arrest... This unfortunate shopper. Wowwwww I love how the owners forgot about me now im really locked inside this store This jobseeker who would get the job if there was any justice. I just accidentally submitted a resumé titled "Issa resumé" This guy who for all we know is still in there. BRUH IM HIGH AF AT WALMART AND FUCKED AROUND AND WENT IN THE WOMENS RESTROOM IVE BEEN TRYNA LEAVE FOR 10 MINS BUT T… https://t.co/StfBJyp5RT Anyone thinking they might enjoy a light snack as they studied. I came to the library to find some answers but leave with only questions... This passenger who deserves better. See. I'm about to get in a fight. The woman with a pure and beautiful soul. (Disclaimer: Only watch if you have a very high cringe threshold.) So this happened today. Before an interview I asked this nice lady to say her name for me. Then to spell first and… https://t.co/n00zCPg3cn This inquisitive woman who found out that sometimes ignorance is bliss. I just googled what owls look like without feathers and I am severely shook Both of these girls but for VERY different reasons. Her mate is FUMING! #pointless This criminal mastermind who so very nearly got away with it. Really enjoying this subtle art thief caught out by a nightclub photographer in Swansea And finally this dog owner who might not be a dog owner for much longer. My dog refused to go on a walk with me today, look at how extra he is   24 British Drunk Foods That Will Confuse The Rest Of...    Where In Hell Do You Belong Based On Your Internet...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.