Everything you want to know about the Trump Cabinet confirmation hearings, votes

Robert Lighthizer, nominated for U.S. Trade Representative Sonny Perdue, nominated for secretary of Agriculture Andrew Puzder, nominated for secretary of Labor David Shulkin, nominated for secretary of Veterans Affairs Ben Carson, nominated for secretary of Housing and Urban Development Betsy DeVos, nominated for secretary of Education Linda McMahon, nominated for SBA administrator Steve Mnuchin, nominated for secretary of the Treasury Mick Mulvaney, nominated for OMB director Rick Perry, nominated for secretary of Energy Tom Price, nominated for secretary of Health and Human Services Scott Pruitt, nominated for EPA administrator Wilbur Ross, nominated for secretary of Commerce Jeff Sessions, nominated for attorney general Ryan Zinke, nominated for secretary of the Interior Elaine Chao, secretary of Transportation Nikki Haley, UN ambassador John Kelly, secretary of Homeland Security James Mattis, secretary of Defense Mike Pompeo, CIA director Rex Tillerson, secretary of State  Full Senate expected to consider the nomination of Betsy DeVos for Education secretary Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs considers the nomination of David Shulkin to be VA secretary  WHO: Ben Carson NOMINATED FOR: Housing and Urban Development secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee ARGUMENT FOR: Carson started his career as a highly accomplished surgeon before turning his attention to politics. His many fans on the conservative right cite his religious faith and rags-to-riches personal story as factors behind their support. Trump has called Carson “brilliant” and a “tough competitor.” ARGUMENT AGAINST: Carson has no experience in public policy and no particular expertise in housing issues. He is known for promoting theories that prison makes inmates gay and that the pyramids were originally constructed to store grain. WHO: Elaine Chao NOMINATED FOR: Transportation secretary CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 93-6 on Jan. 31 , full Senate ARGUMENT FOR: Chao previously served as deputy secretary at the Transportation Department and secretary of the Labor Department, giving her expansive insight into the workings of federal bureaucracy. Trump praised her “expertise,” “strong leadership” and personal background as an immigrant. ARGUMENT AGAINST: The nomination of Chao, a consummate Washington insider married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), defies Trump’s promise to surround himself only with people from outside government. WHO: Betsy DeVos NOMINATED FOR: Education secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: Expected on Tuesday, Feb. 7, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 12-11 on Jan. 31 , Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 430) ARGUMENT FOR: To supporters of school voucher programs, DeVos is a champion. A billionaire conservative activist, she has spent millions on programs to expand them across the country. Trump called her a “brilliant and passionate education advocate.” ARGUMENT AGAINST: DeVos has no professional experience in schools and no traditional experience in education policy. Detractors say her views pose an unprecedented threat to the public school system as a civic institution. WHO: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R) NOMINATED FOR: Ambassador to the United Nations CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 96-4 on Jan. 24 ARGUMENT FOR: A daughter of Indian immigrants and a rising Republican star, Haley is a polished communicator with national security views that fit into the Republican mainstream. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Haley has virtually no experience in foreign policy or international affairs except for leading trade missions on behalf of South Carolina. WHO: Retired Marine Gen. John Kelly NOMINATED FOR: Homeland security secretary CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 88-11 on Jan. 20 ARGUMENT FOR: A widely respected and long-serving military officer, Kelly oversaw operations in Central and South America as head of the U.S. Southern Command. Trump praised him as the “right person to spearhead the urgent mission of stopping illegal immigration” and experienced in stopping drug and human trafficking. ARGUMENT AGAINST: The choice of Kelly further raised questions about Trump’s desire to surround himself with military generals, and Kelly has a blunt manner that can bring him into conflict with other leaders. Detractors have raised concerns about his past comments questioning the Pentagon order opening jobs in combat units to women. WHO: Robert E. Lighthizer NOMINATED FOR: U.S. trade representative CONFIRMED? Not yet. SENATE HEARING: TBA, Senate Finance Committee ARGUMENT FOR: A former Reagan administration official, Lighthizer has decades of experience in trade policy and litigation. He is currently a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, where he represents heavy manufacturing, agricultural and high-tech companies and has served as lead counsel in “scores of antidumping countervailing duty cases,” according to his official biography . ARGUMENT AGAINST: Lighthizer is a harsh critic of China and has advocated for imposing unilateral tariffs on Chinese imports, a step many believe would risk a trade war. WHO: Retired Marine Gen. James Mattis NOMINATED FOR: Defense secretary CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 98-1 on Jan. 20 ARGUMENT FOR: Mattis is highly experienced, having served more than four decades in the Marine Corps, including as the chief of U.S. Central Command. He is highly respected within the military establishment. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mattis is known for making impolitic comments from time to time, such as “It’s fun to shoot some people,” a remark he made during a panel discussion in 2005. To lead the Pentagon, he needs a waiver from Congress bypassing a federal law that disqualifies military personnel who served on active duty in the previous seven years from becoming defense secretary. He is one of several former generals expected to join the top ranks of Trump’s administration, a source of criticism for the president-elect. WHO: Linda McMahon NOMINATED FOR: Administrator of the Small Business Administration CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 18-1 on Jan. 31, Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship (Russell Senate Office Building, Room S-219) ARGUMENT FOR: Trump praised McMahon, the co-founder and former CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment, as “one of the country’s top female executives advising businesses around the globe.” ARGUMENT AGAINST: Critics have alleged the WWE engaged in questionable labor practices under McMahon’s leadership, including promoting steroid and painkiller abuse and requiring wrestlers to follow a grueling schedule that some say contributed to their premature deaths. Democrats who oppose her nomination say she lacks the policy knowledge to lead the SBA. WHO: Steven Mnuchin NOMINATED FOR: Treasury secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 10 a.m. Feb 1 , Senate Committee on Finance (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 215) – GOP only ARGUMENT FOR: Mnuchin, a highly successful investor and former Goldman Sachs executive, “has played a key role in developing our plan to build a dynamic, booming economy that will create millions of jobs,” Trump said in November. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mnuchin has no government experience and has articulated few policy views. His tenure on Wall Street seems to contradict Trump’s populist rhetoric on the campaign trail and has become a target for critics. WHO: Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.) NOMINATED FOR: Director of the Office of Management and Budget CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTES: 8-7 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs; 12-11 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on the Budget ARGUMENT FOR: Elected to the House in the 2010 tea party wave, Mulvaney is known as a budget policy wonk and vociferous deficit hawk, endearing him to fiscal conservatives. He has served on the House Budget, Financial Services and Oversight and Government Reform Committees. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mulvaney campaigned for the House on a promise never to raise the debt ceiling and has voted several times against doing so, a position critics believe downplays the potentially disastrous results of a government default. Mulvaney also failed to pay more than $15,000 in state and federal payroll taxes for a household employee, according to a disclosure form obtained by The Post. WHO: Former Georgia governor Sonny Perdue (R) NOMINATED FOR: Agriculture secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT HEARING: TBA, Senate Committee on Agriculture ARGUMENT FOR: Perdue has a strong background in agriculture, having grown up on a farm, owned a grain and fertilizer business and trained as a veterinarian. As the former governor of Georgia, a state where farming is the largest industry, he is familiar with agricultural policy and has experience running a government bureaucracy. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Opponents believe Perdue’s decisions and ties to industry will serve the interests of agribusiness and factory farming at the expense of environmental protection and animal welfare. Perdue has also made statements suggesting he is skeptical of climate change. WHO: Former Texas governor Rick Perry (R) NOMINATED FOR: Energy secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 16-7 on Jan. 31 , Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources ARGUMENT FOR: Perry was the longest-serving governor in the history of Texas, a major oil-and-gas state. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Perry has voiced support for abolishing the Energy Department, and environmental groups worry his confirmation would mean rolling back efforts to expand renewable energy. He has also repeatedly questioned scientific findings about climate change. WHO: Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) NOMINATED FOR: CIA director CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 66-32 on Jan. 23 ARGUMENT FOR: Pompeo, who was elected to the House in 2010, serves on the House Intelligence Committee. A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, he served as an cavalry officer before founding an aerospace company — a varied record that Trump favors. He was praised as “bright and hard-working” by Democratic House colleague Adam B. Schiff (Calif.). ARGUMENT AGAINST: Pompeo has no meaningful experience in espionage. He is seen as a fierce partisan on issues such as the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, and the leaks by Edward Snowden, a tendency some CIA veterans fear could bias his judgment. WHO: Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) NOMINATED FOR: Health and Human Services secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA LATEST VOTE: 10 a.m. Feb 1, Senate Committee on Finance (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 215) – GOP only ARGUMENT FOR: Price, a third-generation doctor and chairman of the House Budget Committee, is a health-care policy expert who has proposed his own alternative to Obamacare. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Critics point to Price’s desire to repeal the Affordable Care Act and overhaul U.S. entitlement programs as a reason not to confirm him. Price’s stock portfolio is also receiving scrutiny amid revelations he bought and sold shares in health-care companies that would be affected by legislation he worked on. WHO: Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt NOMINATED FOR: EPA administrator CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 11-0 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 406) ARGUMENT FOR: Pruitt is an “expert in constitutional law” and “one of the country’s top attorneys general” who has a deep familiarity with federal environmental and energy regulations. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Pruitt has spent his tenure as attorney general fighting the Environmental Protection Agency. Critics point to his philosophical differences with the agency’s mission as reason not to confirm him. WHO: Andrew Puzder NOMINATED FOR: Labor secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT HEARING: Feb. 7; Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions ARGUMENT FOR: Puzder is chief executive of CKE Restaurants, the parent company of Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. Trump said he has “created and boosted the careers of thousands of Americans.” ARGUMENT AGAINST: Detractors point to Puzder’s opposition to the Affordable Care Act, federal rules that would make more workers eligible for overtime pay and substantially raising the minimum wage to argue he should not lead the Labor Department. His ex-wife accused him of beating her — Puzder denies any physical abuse — in their 1986 divorce proceedings. He has also faced criticism for his company’s use of racy and suggestive advertising. WHO: Wilbur Ross NOMINATED FOR: Commerce secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate ARGUMENT FOR: Trump praised Ross, a billionaire investor who made his fortune restructuring distressed companies, as a “champion of American manufacturing” and “one of the greatest negotiators I have ever met.” Supporters hope his experience as a turnaround specialist will boost jobs and reinvigorate troubled U.S. industries. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Ross’s record of buying and restructuring troubled businesses sometimes involved layoffs and budget cuts. He is a hard-line supporter of renegotiating or withdrawing from free-trade agreements, a stance that puts him in conflict with free-market Republican orthodoxy. WHO: Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) NOMINATED FOR: Attorney general CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 11-9 on Feb. 1 , Senate Judiciary Committee (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 226) ARGUMENT FOR: Trump has praised Sessions, a longtime adviser and supporter, as a “world-class legal mind.” First elected in 1996, Sessions previously served as a U.S. attorney and attorney general for Alabama. He has earned praise from Democrats who work with him. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Accusations of racism have dogged Sessions’s career. He was denied a federal judgeship in 1986 after former colleagues testified he used the n-word and said the Ku Klux Klan was “okay” until he realized Klan members smoked marijuana. WHO: David Shulkin NOMINATED FOR: Veterans Affairs secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: Tuesday, Feb. 7; Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs LATEST HEARING: 2:30 p.m. Feb. 1 , Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs ARGUMENT FOR: Shulkin already serves as VA’s Undersecretary for Health, giving him firsthand experience leading one of the department’s largest administrations. He was confirmed unanimously for the job in June 2015, and prior to that, spent 30 years leading private hospitals. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Trump supporters say it is not clear Shulkin agrees with the president’s desire to dramatically expand private care for veterans, and some point to ongoing problems with the Veterans Health Administration to argue he was the wrong choice. If confirmed, Shulkin would be the first VA secretary not to have served in the military. WHO: Rex Tillerson NOMINATED FOR: Secretary of state CONFIRMED? Yes. FINAL VOTE: 56-43 on Feb. 1, full Senate ARGUMENT FOR: Trump sees Tillerson, who joined ExxonMobil in 1975 and served as its chief executive, as the “embodiment of the American Dream.” Trump has praised his “tenacity, broad experience and deep understanding of geopolitics.” As a global business leader, Tillerson has experience dealing with heads of state around the world, including in Russia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Tillerson has no experience in the public sector, received the Order of Friendship from Russian President Vladimir Putin and brings along potential conflicts of interest from his business career. It’s also unclear whether he supports sanctions implemented against Russia in 2014 over its annexation of Crimea and Moscow’s support for separatists in Ukraine. WHO: Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.) NOMINATED FOR: Interior secretary CONFIRMED? Not yet. NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate LATEST VOTE: 16-6 on Jan. 31 , Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources ARGUMENT FOR: Zinke, an outdoor enthusiast and fifth-generation Montanan, sits on the House Natural Resources Committee. Trump praised his “impressive portfolio on Interior issues ranging from federal mineral leases to tribal affairs to public lands conservation” and noted his experience and “incredible leadership skills” as a Navy SEAL from 1986 to 2008. ARGUMENT AGAINST: Zinke, who has spent only one term in Congress, has been widely criticized by environmental groups for opposing their agenda on issues ranging from protections for endangered species to coal extraction to gas drilling. He said during a 2014 debate that climate change is “not a hoax, but it’s not proven science either.”

Confirmation votes for President Trump’s Cabinet picks and other nominees have been coming fast and furious. Here’s your guide to all the details.



WHERE THINGS STAND:

Waiting for hearings (3):

Robert Lighthizer, nominated for U.S. Trade Representative

Sonny Perdue, nominated for secretary of Agriculture

Andrew Puzder, nominated for secretary of Labor

Waiting for committee vote (1):

David Shulkin, nominated for secretary of Veterans Affairs

Waiting for floor votes (11):

Ben Carson, nominated for secretary of Housing and Urban Development

Betsy DeVos, nominated for secretary of Education

Linda McMahon, nominated for SBA administrator

Steve Mnuchin, nominated for secretary of the Treasury

Mick Mulvaney, nominated for OMB director

Rick Perry, nominated for secretary of Energy

Tom Price, nominated for secretary of Health and Human Services

Scott Pruitt, nominated for EPA administrator

Wilbur Ross, nominated for secretary of Commerce

Jeff Sessions, nominated for attorney general

Ryan Zinke, nominated for secretary of the Interior

Already confirmed (6):

Elaine Chao, secretary of Transportation

Nikki Haley, UN ambassador

John Kelly, secretary of Homeland Security

James Mattis, secretary of Defense

Mike Pompeo, CIA director

Rex Tillerson, secretary of State

THIS WEEK’S SCHEDULE:



Tuesday: Full Senate expected to consider the nomination of Betsy DeVos for Education secretary Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs considers the nomination of David Shulkin to be VA secretary



NOMINEES IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER:

President-elect Donald Trump named Ben Carson as his nominee for housing and urban development secretary. Here's what you need to know about the former GOP presidential candidate. (Sarah Parnass,Osman Malik/The Washington Post)

WHO: Ben Carson

NOMINATED FOR: Housing and Urban Development secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee

ARGUMENT FOR: Carson started his career as a highly accomplished surgeon before turning his attention to politics. His many fans on the conservative right cite his religious faith and rags-to-riches personal story as factors behind their support. Trump has called Carson “brilliant” and a “tough competitor.”

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Carson has no experience in public policy and no particular expertise in housing issues. He is known for promoting theories that prison makes inmates gay and that the pyramids were originally constructed to store grain.

Elaine Chao was confirmed as transportation secretary, Jan. 31. Here's what you should know about her. (Sarah Parnass,Osman Malik,Thomas Johnson/The Washington Post)

WHO: Elaine Chao

NOMINATED FOR: Transportation secretary

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 93-6 on Jan. 31, full Senate

ARGUMENT FOR: Chao previously served as deputy secretary at the Transportation Department and secretary of the Labor Department, giving her expansive insight into the workings of federal bureaucracy. Trump praised her “expertise,” “strong leadership” and personal background as an immigrant.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: The nomination of Chao, a consummate Washington insider married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), defies Trump’s promise to surround himself only with people from outside government.

President-elect Donald Trump named Betsy DeVos as his nominee for education secretary. Here's what you need to know about the conservative activist and billionaire donor. (Sarah Parnass,Osman Malik/The Washington Post)

WHO: Betsy DeVos

NOMINATED FOR: Education secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: Expected on Tuesday, Feb. 7, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 12-11 on Jan. 31, Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 430)

ARGUMENT FOR: To supporters of school voucher programs, DeVos is a champion. A billionaire conservative activist, she has spent millions on programs to expand them across the country. Trump called her a “brilliant and passionate education advocate.”

ARGUMENT AGAINST: DeVos has no professional experience in schools and no traditional experience in education policy. Detractors say her views pose an unprecedented threat to the public school system as a civic institution.

Gov. Nikki Haley (R-S.C.) was nominated to be President-elect Donald Trump's ambassador to the United Nations. Here's what you need to know about the rising Republican star. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)

WHO: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R)

NOMINATED FOR: Ambassador to the United Nations

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 96-4 on Jan. 24

ARGUMENT FOR: A daughter of Indian immigrants and a rising Republican star, Haley is a polished communicator with national security views that fit into the Republican mainstream.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Haley has virtually no experience in foreign policy or international affairs except for leading trade missions on behalf of South Carolina.

Retired Marine Gen. John F. Kelly was confirmed as the secretary of homeland security on Jan 20, just hours after President Trump took the oath of office. (Sarah Parnass,Osman Malik/The Washington Post)

WHO: Retired Marine Gen. John Kelly

NOMINATED FOR: Homeland security secretary

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 88-11 on Jan. 20

ARGUMENT FOR: A widely respected and long-serving military officer, Kelly oversaw operations in Central and South America as head of the U.S. Southern Command. Trump praised him as the “right person to spearhead the urgent mission of stopping illegal immigration” and experienced in stopping drug and human trafficking.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: The choice of Kelly further raised questions about Trump’s desire to surround himself with military generals, and Kelly has a blunt manner that can bring him into conflict with other leaders. Detractors have raised concerns about his past comments questioning the Pentagon order opening jobs in combat units to women.

Robert Lighthizer, a former Reagan administration official, is Trump’s pick for U.S. trade representative. (Credit: White House)

WHO: Robert E. Lighthizer

NOMINATED FOR: U.S. trade representative

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

SENATE HEARING: TBA, Senate Finance Committee

ARGUMENT FOR: A former Reagan administration official, Lighthizer has decades of experience in trade policy and litigation. He is currently a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, where he represents heavy manufacturing, agricultural and high-tech companies and has served as lead counsel in “scores of antidumping countervailing duty cases,” according to his official biography.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Lighthizer is a harsh critic of China and has advocated for imposing unilateral tariffs on Chinese imports, a step many believe would risk a trade war.

Retired U.S. Marine Corps General James Mattis was confirmed as Secretary of Defense on Jan. 20, just hours after President Donald Trump took the oath of office. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)

WHO: Retired Marine Gen. James Mattis

NOMINATED FOR: Defense secretary

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 98-1 on Jan. 20

ARGUMENT FOR: Mattis is highly experienced, having served more than four decades in the Marine Corps, including as the chief of U.S. Central Command. He is highly respected within the military establishment.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mattis is known for making impolitic comments from time to time, such as “It’s fun to shoot some people,” a remark he made during a panel discussion in 2005. To lead the Pentagon, he needs a waiver from Congress bypassing a federal law that disqualifies military personnel who served on active duty in the previous seven years from becoming defense secretary. He is one of several former generals expected to join the top ranks of Trump’s administration, a source of criticism for the president-elect.

President-elect Donald Trump is nominating Linda McMahon for administrator of the Small Business Administration. Here's what you need to know about her. (Bastien Inzaurralde,Osman Malik/The Washington Post)

WHO: Linda McMahon

NOMINATED FOR: Administrator of the Small Business Administration

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 18-1 on Jan. 31, Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship (Russell Senate Office Building, Room S-219)

ARGUMENT FOR: Trump praised McMahon, the co-founder and former CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment, as “one of the country’s top female executives advising businesses around the globe.”

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Critics have alleged the WWE engaged in questionable labor practices under McMahon’s leadership, including promoting steroid and painkiller abuse and requiring wrestlers to follow a grueling schedule that some say contributed to their premature deaths. Democrats who oppose her nomination say she lacks the policy knowledge to lead the SBA.

Banker Steven Mnuchin is the next potential Treasury Secretary in Donald Trump's administration. Here's what you need to know about him. (Deirdra O'Regan/The Washington Post)

WHO: Steven Mnuchin

NOMINATED FOR: Treasury secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 10 a.m. Feb 1, Senate Committee on Finance (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 215) – GOP only

ARGUMENT FOR: Mnuchin, a highly successful investor and former Goldman Sachs executive, “has played a key role in developing our plan to build a dynamic, booming economy that will create millions of jobs,” Trump said in November.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mnuchin has no government experience and has articulated few policy views. His tenure on Wall Street seems to contradict Trump’s populist rhetoric on the campaign trail and has become a target for critics.

President-elect Donald Trump named Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.) as his director of the Office of Management and Budget. Here's what you need to know about the conservative congressman. (Claritza Jimenez/The Washington Post)

WHO: Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.)

NOMINATED FOR: Director of the Office of Management and Budget

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTES: 8-7 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs; 12-11 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on the Budget

ARGUMENT FOR: Elected to the House in the 2010 tea party wave, Mulvaney is known as a budget policy wonk and vociferous deficit hawk, endearing him to fiscal conservatives. He has served on the House Budget, Financial Services and Oversight and Government Reform Committees.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Mulvaney campaigned for the House on a promise never to raise the debt ceiling and has voted several times against doing so, a position critics believe downplays the potentially disastrous results of a government default. Mulvaney also failed to pay more than $15,000 in state and federal payroll taxes for a household employee, according to a disclosure form obtained by The Post.

President-elect Donald Trump has tapped Sonny Perdue as Agriculture Secretary, rounding out his Cabinet-level picks. (Victoria Walker/The Washington Post)

WHO: Former Georgia governor Sonny Perdue (R)

NOMINATED FOR: Agriculture secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT HEARING: TBA, Senate Committee on Agriculture

ARGUMENT FOR: Perdue has a strong background in agriculture, having grown up on a farm, owned a grain and fertilizer business and trained as a veterinarian. As the former governor of Georgia, a state where farming is the largest industry, he is familiar with agricultural policy and has experience running a government bureaucracy.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Opponents believe Perdue’s decisions and ties to industry will serve the interests of agribusiness and factory farming at the expense of environmental protection and animal welfare. Perdue has also made statements suggesting he is skeptical of climate change.

Former Texas governor Rick Perry leaves Trump Tower in New York on Monday, Dec. 12, 2016. (AP/Kathy Willens)

WHO: Former Texas governor Rick Perry (R)

NOMINATED FOR: Energy secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 16-7 on Jan. 31, Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

ARGUMENT FOR: Perry was the longest-serving governor in the history of Texas, a major oil-and-gas state.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Perry has voiced support for abolishing the Energy Department, and environmental groups worry his confirmation would mean rolling back efforts to expand renewable energy. He has also repeatedly questioned scientific findings about climate change.

President-elect Donald Trump has tapped Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) to be CIA director. Here's what we know about him. (Victoria Walker/The Washington Post)

WHO: Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.)

NOMINATED FOR: CIA director

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 66-32 on Jan. 23

ARGUMENT FOR: Pompeo, who was elected to the House in 2010, serves on the House Intelligence Committee. A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, he served as an cavalry officer before founding an aerospace company — a varied record that Trump favors. He was praised as “bright and hard-working” by Democratic House colleague Adam B. Schiff (Calif.).

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Pompeo has no meaningful experience in espionage. He is seen as a fierce partisan on issues such as the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, and the leaks by Edward Snowden, a tendency some CIA veterans fear could bias his judgment.

Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), a veteran lawmaker and vehement critic of the Affordable Care Act, has been picked as President-elect Donald Trump's choice to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)

WHO: Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.)

NOMINATED FOR: Health and Human Services secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA

LATEST VOTE: 10 a.m. Feb 1, Senate Committee on Finance (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 215) – GOP only

ARGUMENT FOR: Price, a third-generation doctor and chairman of the House Budget Committee, is a health-care policy expert who has proposed his own alternative to Obamacare.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Critics point to Price’s desire to repeal the Affordable Care Act and overhaul U.S. entitlement programs as a reason not to confirm him. Price’s stock portfolio is also receiving scrutiny amid revelations he bought and sold shares in health-care companies that would be affected by legislation he worked on.

Scott Pruitt, attorney general of Oklahoma, arrives at Trump Tower in New York on Wednesday, Dec. 7, 2016. (John Taggart/Bloomberg News)

WHO: Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt

NOMINATED FOR: EPA administrator

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 11-0 on Feb. 2, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 406)

ARGUMENT FOR: Pruitt is an “expert in constitutional law” and “one of the country’s top attorneys general” who has a deep familiarity with federal environmental and energy regulations.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Pruitt has spent his tenure as attorney general fighting the Environmental Protection Agency. Critics point to his philosophical differences with the agency’s mission as reason not to confirm him.

President-elect Donald Trump is nominating fast-food executive Andrew Puzder as secretary of labor. Here's what you need to know about him. (Sarah Parnass,Osman Malik,Danielle Kunitz,Adriana Usero/The Washington Post)

WHO: Andrew Puzder

NOMINATED FOR: Labor secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT HEARING: Feb. 7; Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions

ARGUMENT FOR: Puzder is chief executive of CKE Restaurants, the parent company of Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. Trump said he has “created and boosted the careers of thousands of Americans.”

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Detractors point to Puzder’s opposition to the Affordable Care Act, federal rules that would make more workers eligible for overtime pay and substantially raising the minimum wage to argue he should not lead the Labor Department. His ex-wife accused him of beating her — Puzder denies any physical abuse — in their 1986 divorce proceedings. He has also faced criticism for his company’s use of racy and suggestive advertising.

President-elect Donald Trump named Wilbur Ross as his nominee for commerce secretary. Here's what you need to know about the billionaire investor. (Monica Akhtar,Osman Malik,Thomas Johnson/The Washington Post)

WHO: Wilbur Ross

NOMINATED FOR: Commerce secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

ARGUMENT FOR: Trump praised Ross, a billionaire investor who made his fortune restructuring distressed companies, as a “champion of American manufacturing” and “one of the greatest negotiators I have ever met.” Supporters hope his experience as a turnaround specialist will boost jobs and reinvigorate troubled U.S. industries.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Ross’s record of buying and restructuring troubled businesses sometimes involved layoffs and budget cuts. He is a hard-line supporter of renegotiating or withdrawing from free-trade agreements, a stance that puts him in conflict with free-market Republican orthodoxy.

President-elect Donald Trump announced Friday that he plans to nominate Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) as attorney general. (Thomas Johnson/The Washington Post)

WHO: Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.)

NOMINATED FOR: Attorney general

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 11-9 on Feb. 1, Senate Judiciary Committee (Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 226)

ARGUMENT FOR: Trump has praised Sessions, a longtime adviser and supporter, as a “world-class legal mind.” First elected in 1996, Sessions previously served as a U.S. attorney and attorney general for Alabama. He has earned praise from Democrats who work with him.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Accusations of racism have dogged Sessions’s career. He was denied a federal judgeship in 1986 after former colleagues testified he used the n-word and said the Ku Klux Klan was “okay” until he realized Klan members smoked marijuana.

President-elect Donald Trump announced on Jan. 11 that he has picked David Shulkin to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. (Victoria Walker,Danielle Kunitz/The Washington Post)

WHO: David Shulkin

NOMINATED FOR: Veterans Affairs secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: Tuesday, Feb. 7; Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs

LATEST HEARING: 2:30 p.m. Feb. 1, Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs

ARGUMENT FOR: Shulkin already serves as VA’s Undersecretary for Health, giving him firsthand experience leading one of the department’s largest administrations. He was confirmed unanimously for the job in June 2015, and prior to that, spent 30 years leading private hospitals.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Trump supporters say it is not clear Shulkin agrees with the president’s desire to dramatically expand private care for veterans, and some point to ongoing problems with the Veterans Health Administration to argue he was the wrong choice. If confirmed, Shulkin would be the first VA secretary not to have served in the military.

President-elect Donald Trump has picked Rex Tillerson as his nominee for secretary of state. Here's what you need to know about Tillerson. (Thomas Johnson,Victoria Walker,Danielle Kunitz/The Washington Post)

WHO: Rex Tillerson

NOMINATED FOR: Secretary of state

CONFIRMED? Yes.

FINAL VOTE: 56-43 on Feb. 1, full Senate

ARGUMENT FOR: Trump sees Tillerson, who joined ExxonMobil in 1975 and served as its chief executive, as the “embodiment of the American Dream.” Trump has praised his “tenacity, broad experience and deep understanding of geopolitics.” As a global business leader, Tillerson has experience dealing with heads of state around the world, including in Russia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Tillerson has no experience in the public sector, received the Order of Friendship from Russian President Vladimir Putin and brings along potential conflicts of interest from his business career. It’s also unclear whether he supports sanctions implemented against Russia in 2014 over its annexation of Crimea and Moscow’s support for separatists in Ukraine.

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.) to head the Department of the Interior. Here's what you need to know about him. (Bastien Inzaurralde,Danielle Kunitz,Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post)

WHO: Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.)

NOMINATED FOR: Interior secretary

CONFIRMED? Not yet.

NEXT VOTE: TBA, full Senate

LATEST VOTE: 16-6 on Jan. 31, Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

ARGUMENT FOR: Zinke, an outdoor enthusiast and fifth-generation Montanan, sits on the House Natural Resources Committee. Trump praised his “impressive portfolio on Interior issues ranging from federal mineral leases to tribal affairs to public lands conservation” and noted his experience and “incredible leadership skills” as a Navy SEAL from 1986 to 2008.

ARGUMENT AGAINST: Zinke, who has spent only one term in Congress, has been widely criticized by environmental groups for opposing their agenda on issues ranging from protections for endangered species to coal extraction to gas drilling. He said during a 2014 debate that climate change is “not a hoax, but it’s not proven science either.”