Do You Actually Know More Than 4 Middle Eastern Foods?
Do You Actually Know More Than 4 Middle Eastern Foods?
For each question, choose the photo that matches the name of the food.                        Baklava is a sweet pastry made with layers of filo, filled with chopped nuts and soaked in syrup.                         Falafel is a deep-fried ball traditionally made from ground chickpeas.                         Hummus is dip or spread made from mashed chickpeas and blended with tahini, olive oil, lemon juice, salt, and garlic.                         Tabbouleh is a vegetarian dish which can be made with bulgur, tomatoes, chopped parsley, mint, and onions – and seasoned in olive oil.                         Bamya is a hearty stew made with okra, tomatoes, and stew meat – traditionally served with a side of rice.                         Dolma is a variety of stuffed vegetables including vine leaves, pepper, and courgette, filled with rice and herbs.                         Manakeesh is a flatbread made from dough topped with thyme, cheese, or ground meat.                         Baba ghanoush is a dish of cooked aubergine mixed with tahini, olive oil, and various seasonings.                         Halva is a family of sweet confections which may be flour-based or nut-butter-based.                         Kanafeh is a sweet, buttery cheese pastry soaked in syrup.                         Kofta is a variety of meatball dishes made with minced or ground meat which can be grilled, fried, steamed, poached, baked, or marinated.                         Umm Ali is a milky bread pudding containing nuts and almonds, often served warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.                         Mansaf is a dish made of lamb cooked in a sauce of fermented dried yogurt, served with a side of rice or bulgur.  Do You Actually Know More Than 4 Middle Eastern Foods?  You don’t really know Middle Eastern food!  That’s okay because now that you do, you have a whole list of tasty treats to try.    You kinda know Middle Eastern food!  You’ve tried your fair share of Middle Eastern food, but you know you still have quite a bit to work through.    You know Middle Eastern food really well!  You really know your stuff. Well done! You probably eat this stuff on a daily basis and you love it.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   19 Perfect Lines From Schmidt That Never Fail To Make...    27 Restaurants You Must Visit In 2017  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.