Jack Daniel’s Launches Whiskey-Infused Coffee To Make Mornings More Refreshing
Jack Daniel’s Launches Whiskey-Infused Coffee To Make Mornings More Refreshing
Jack Daniel’s Launches Whiskey-Infused Coffee To Make Mornings More Refreshing Mornings are about to get exciting as Jack Daniel’s has introduced whiskey-infused coffee. Yes, you read that right. For people who love coffee, this is some great news! Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey Coffee is made with 100 percent Arabica coffee and is infused with JD’s old no.7 Tennessee Whiskey. However, if you're thinking of ‘getting high’ with every sip, then to your disappointment, the coffee is non-alcoholic. “We use the best tasting and highest quality coffees in the world and now add to that the authentic taste and aroma of Jack Daniel’s,” Charlie Newman, president and owner of World of Coffee, said in a press release that was released during the launch of the coffee. The coffee is now available at Lynchburg Hardware and General Store in Lynchburg, Tennessee, as well as on its online store. However, coffee aficionados in India would have to wait as it’s not yet available in our country. Currently, a 8.8 oz collectible tin of the coffee costs $21.95 and a 1.5 oz bag costs $6.95. So in case you want to buy JD coffee, be ready to shell out around INR 500-600.

Mornings are about to get exciting as Jack Daniel’s has introduced whiskey-infused coffee. Yes, you read that right. For people who love coffee, this is some great news!

Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey Coffee is made with 100 percent Arabica coffee and is infused with JD’s old no.7 Tennessee Whiskey. However, if you're thinking of ‘getting high’ with every sip, then to your disappointment, the coffee is non-alcoholic.

“We use the best tasting and highest quality coffees in the world and now add to that the authentic taste and aroma of Jack Daniel’s,” Charlie Newman, president and owner of World of Coffee, said in a press release that was released during the launch of the coffee.

The coffee is now available at Lynchburg Hardware and General Store in Lynchburg, Tennessee, as well as on its online store. However, coffee aficionados in India would have to wait as it’s not yet available in our country. Currently, a 8.8 oz collectible tin of the coffee costs $21.95 and a 1.5 oz bag costs $6.95. So in case you want to buy JD coffee, be ready to shell out around INR 500-600.