Kellyanne Conway Defends Trump's Twitter Use As A 'Free' Way To Share Information
Kellyanne Conway Defends Trump's Twitter Use As A 'Free' Way To Share Information
Kellyanne Conway defended president-elect Donald Trump’s 140-character missives on Twitter as a “free” way to “communicate directly with the people” during an interview with Seth Meyers on Tuesday night. Conway, who will become a counselor to the president later this month, justified Trump’s controversial behaviors in the “Late Night With Seth Meyers” interview, including his refusal to release his tax returns and hold a press conference. But Meyers buckled down on Trump’s ongoing use of Twitter as a means of communication, focusing on recent messages meant to shame detractors , claim victory over business decisions and lambaste intelligence agencies . “Wouldn’t it be great for you personally if he tweeted a little bit less?” Meyers asked. “No, actually, the answer is no,” Conway said. “It’s his way to communicate directly with the people. It’s free for you. You get information from him. The press doesn’t like it because he does an end run around them, and it’s the democratization of information. You don’t have to wait for some journalist, some anti-Trump journalist to curate the information and bias it.” Watch the entire exchange above. ALSO ON HUFFPOST What You Can Do Right Now To Stop Donald Trump's Dangerous Climate Agenda       Share this slide:       MORE:

Strengthen city, county and state climate efforts

If the federal government refuses to stand up against climate change, it’ll be more important than ever for cities, counties and states to pick up the slack and become climate leaders. That means committing to divest from fossil fuels, embrace clean energy, set emissions targets and develop climate action plans , among other measures.“The ominous signals coming out of D.C. point to even more work needed at the city and state level,” said Kate Kiely, national media deputy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. In November, the NRDC announced partnerships with 20 cities across the country from St. Paul, Minnesota, to Houston, Texas, to make strides in renewable energy.According to Brune, cities could have an especially big influence in the climate change fight. “We should be pushing cities to go 100 percent clean energy and to reject natural gas and coal and other fossil fuels,” he said. “A majority of people now live in cities, so this could have a dramatic impact.”In the U.S., at least 20 cities have made commitments to rely completely on clean energy.“People should organize and get their own cities to move forward,” Brune said.Contact your mayor, city council, or county or state representative and get them to set a timeline to stop using fossil fuels.