This Mumbai Boy Has Scored 100% In SAT, ACT And He Wants To Become Finance Minister Of India
This Mumbai Boy Has Scored 100% In SAT, ACT And He Wants To Become Finance Minister Of India
This Mumbai Boy Has Scored 100% In SAT, ACT And He Wants To Become Finance Minister Of India Anagh Agarwal, a student of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, aims to get into Harvard University to pursue a major in economics. A good SAT or ACT (American College Testing) score — standardised examination for admission to US colleges — would have been enough to secure admission to the Ivy League institute, but the 16-year-old has gone ahead and aced the exams with perfect scores in both — a rare feat. Agarwal scored 1600/1600 in the new pattern of SAT and 36/36 in ACT. Most students take either of the exams. "I took it up as a personal challenge. I had always wanted to appear for SAT, and I started preparation about five months ago. To appear for ACT was a last-minute decision," said Agarwal, adding that his reading habit helped him in his preparation. He has his plans all made. "I want to get into investment banking for a short period in the US after completing my studies. Then I intend to return to India and join politics and become the finance minister someday," said Agarwal. Wish him all the very best!

Anagh Agarwal, a student of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, aims to get into Harvard University to pursue a major in economics.

A good SAT or ACT (American College Testing) score — standardised examination for admission to US colleges — would have been enough to secure admission to the Ivy League institute, but the 16-year-old has gone ahead and aced the exams with perfect scores in both — a rare feat.

BCCL

Agarwal scored 1600/1600 in the new pattern of SAT and 36/36 in ACT. Most students take either of the exams.

"I took it up as a personal challenge. I had always wanted to appear for SAT, and I started preparation about five months ago. To appear for ACT was a last-minute decision," said Agarwal, adding that his reading habit helped him in his preparation.

BCCL

He has his plans all made.

"I want to get into investment banking for a short period in the US after completing my studies. Then I intend to return to India and join politics and become the finance minister someday," said Agarwal.

Wish him all the very best!