Newborn Abducted From Hospital Bed Set To Reunite With Her Family After 18 Years!
Newborn Abducted From Hospital Bed Set To Reunite With Her Family After 18 Years!
Newborn Abducted From Hospital Bed Set To Reunite With Her Family After 18 Years! It was once a crime that made national headlines in the US in 1998, and remained something that refused to go away from the memory. Kamiyah Mobley was abducted by an unidentified woman posing as a nurse when she was just 8-hours-old from a Jacksonville hospital. Police had then searched all trains travelling out of Jacksonville coach by coach looking for her. It had also made it to the TV show "America's Most Wanted" and there was a cash reward of $250,000 reward for Kamiyah's recovery. Now after 18 years of painstaking wait the prayers of Shanara Mobley has been answered. Jacksonville Sheriff Mike Williams said a woman identified as Gloria Williams was arrested in South Carolina under charges of abduction after DNA test confirmed that the girl she claimed to be her daughter was in fact the baby who went missing 18 years ago. Shanara Mobley, who spent every birthday of her firstborn cutting a piece of sheet cake, putting it on a paper plate, wrapping it in aluminum foil and sticking it in the freezer Jacksonville police said the teenager found out on Friday morning that the woman who raised her in Walterboro, South Carolina her whole life was not her real mother. Within hours, Kamiyah was able to reconnect over FaceTime with her birth parents Shanara Mobley and Craig Aiken who cried 'tears of joy' after a detective told them their baby had been found. According to reports, Williams had suffered a miscarriage about a week before, following which she went on to abduct the newborn.

It was once a crime that made national headlines in the US in 1998, and remained something that refused to go away from the memory.

Kamiyah Mobley was abducted by an unidentified woman posing as a nurse when she was just 8-hours-old from a Jacksonville hospital.

Twitter

Police had then searched all trains travelling out of Jacksonville coach by coach looking for her.

It had also made it to the TV show "America's Most Wanted" and there was a cash reward of $250,000 reward for Kamiyah's recovery.

Now after 18 years of painstaking wait the prayers of Shanara Mobley has been answered.

Jacksonville Sheriff Mike Williams said a woman identified as Gloria Williams was arrested in South Carolina under charges of abduction after DNA test confirmed that the girl she claimed to be her daughter was in fact the baby who went missing 18 years ago.

Twitter

Shanara Mobley, who spent every birthday of her firstborn cutting a piece of sheet cake, putting it on a paper plate, wrapping it in aluminum foil and sticking it in the freezer

Jacksonville police said the teenager found out on Friday morning that the woman who raised her in Walterboro, South Carolina her whole life was not her real mother.

Within hours, Kamiyah was able to reconnect over FaceTime with her birth parents Shanara Mobley and Craig Aiken who cried 'tears of joy' after a detective told them their baby had been found.

Facebook

According to reports, Williams had suffered a miscarriage about a week before, following which she went on to abduct the newborn.

51-year-old Williams will be extradited to Florida where she will face the law.