Carrie Fisher will not be digitally recreated in upcoming "Star Wars" films
Carrie Fisher will not be digitally recreated in upcoming "Star Wars" films
Carrie Fisher as Princess Leia.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Princess Leia will not be digitally recreated in any upcoming Star Wars films, Lucasfilms said on Friday. Carrie Fisher, who played the iconic role, died on Dec. 27th . She appeared in the original three films, and returned for a cameo in “The Force Awakens.” An image of young Princess Leia appeared in the final frames of the prequel “Rogue One.” Iconic actress Carrie Fisher dead at 60 Iconic "Star Wars" actress Carrie Fisher has died at 60, after suffering from a heart attack on Friday. "Entertainment Tonight" senior news edito... Fisher completed filming Episode VIII , but it’s unclear what plan there was for Leia in that film or in the planned Episode IX. But rumors ciriculated online that Disney and Lucasfilms were in neogitations with Fisher’s estate to use CGI to include her likeness in future films. In the statement, Lucasfilms shot down those rumors, saying they had “no plans to digitally recreate Carrie Fisher’s performance as Princess or General Leia Organa.” “Carrie Fisher was, is, and always will be a part of the Lucasfilm family,” the statement read. “She was our princess, our general, and more importantly, our friend. We are still hurting from her loss. We cherish her memory and legacy as Princess Leia, and will always strive to honor everything she gave to Star Wars.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email

Princess Leia will not be digitally recreated in any upcoming Star Wars films, Lucasfilms said on Friday.

Carrie Fisher, who played the iconic role, died on Dec. 27th. She appeared in the original three films, and returned for a cameo in “The Force Awakens.” An image of young Princess Leia appeared in the final frames of the prequel “Rogue One.”

Fisher completed filming Episode VIII, but it’s unclear what plan there was for Leia in that film or in the planned Episode IX. But rumors ciriculated online that Disney and Lucasfilms were in neogitations with Fisher’s estate to use CGI to include her likeness in future films.

In the statement, Lucasfilms shot down those rumors, saying they had “no plans to digitally recreate Carrie Fisher’s performance as Princess or General Leia Organa.”

“Carrie Fisher was, is, and always will be a part of the Lucasfilm family,” the statement read. “She was our princess, our general, and more importantly, our friend. We are still hurting from her loss. We cherish her memory and legacy as Princess Leia, and will always strive to honor everything she gave to Star Wars.”