Swansea 0-4 Arsenal: Premier League – as it happened

. Swansea capitulated in the second half, and Paul Clement has serious work to do. Thanks for reading. Keep up to date will all the other scores here:      Full-time: Swansea 0-4 Arsenal That’s the whistle.      More good play from McBurnie, but Borja heads his cross over the bar when he should have hit the target.      Three pointless minutes of stoppage time.      Routledge shot when he should have passed to Sigurdsson, and then McBurnie, who’s shown some good touches since coming on, heads over.      We’re just playing time. This is Arsenal’s first ever Premier League double over Swansea; they won 3-2 at the Emirates earlier in the season.      Sigurdsson tests Cech, but he didn’t get any power.      Alexis is in a huge sulk on the touchline, obviously upset at being taken off. Come on, man! Your team’s 4-0 up, and you’ve scored a goal. Turn that frown upside down! Updated       There’s something to be written on teams losing so comprehensively in the modern game. Why are there so many 0-3 and 0-4 scorelines this season? Are teams more brittle nowadays? Or is the deck stacked so heavily in favour of attacking players? Paging Jonathan Wilson.      McBurnie does well to escape on the left side, but his cross is behind the trio of attacking players in support.      Two final changes for Arsenal: Özil and Alexis are replaced by Welbeck and Perez.      It hasn’t really been a 4-0 game, but Swansea’s defence has really struggled. And of course, two own goals don’t help. Leroy Fer is booked for a late tackle on Ramsey. That was naughty.      Arsenal’s excellent goalscoring form in away matches continues. 27 - Arsenal have scored 27 away goals in the Premier League this season, at least five more than any other team. Excursions.      A slightly lucky ricochet off Routledge, and the ball found its way to Alexis, who reacted quickest and prodded home from six yards. Updated       GOAL! Swansea 0-4 Arsenal (Alexis 73) Alexis’s 14th goal of the season makes it 4-0.      Routledge moves smoothly into the penalty area, but his cross is straight at Cech. The Liberty Stadium has gone very quiet.      Double change for Swansea: Borja and McBurnie on for Llorente and Cork.      Iwobi, who’s moved to the left, took on the defender, fizzed it across the six-yard box, and Naughton, facing the wrong way, stabbed it past Fabianski. You have to feel for Swansea, but this game is over. Updated       GOAL! Swansea 0-3 Arsenal (Naughton og 67) Oh dear. Another own goal, and it’s three-nil.      Oh, and that was a chance for Fernandez! The ball was cleared, Kingsley slung it back it, and it fell kindly for Fernandez, who sidefooted it over the bar from 12 yards! A shame for Swansea that it didn’t fall to Sigurdsson.      Sigurdsson finds Routledge, and his shot hits Koscielny and goes behind. Corner.      I think that second goal has now officially gone down as a Jack Cork own goal. But now Swansea must rouse themselves in the final 30 minutes. Do they have it in them?      Giroud departs, finally, and Oxlade-Chamberlain is on.      It was Jack Cork, actually, who got the telling deflection. Does that go down as an own goal? In the meantime, Leroy Fer is on for the ineffectual Nathan Dyer.      Swansea just couldn’t clear it. The ball came back in, Iwobi found half a yard of space in the box, but his shot took a massive deflection off Mawson, was it, and it looped up and over Fabianski, who had no chance. A slice of ill fortune for Swansea, but Arsenal had applied so much pressure that the goal looked inevitable. It’s a long way back for Swansea now. Updated       GOAL! Swansea 0-2 Arsenal (Cork og 54) A huge deflection on Iwobi’s shot, and Arsenal make it two! Updated       Excellent save from Fabianksi to deny Ramsey. It was a super pass from Alexis, and Ramsey’s first touch was immaculate, but Fabianksi stayed big to block the shot with his legs. Swansea are under the cosh here.       Arsenal have stepped it up since the break, and twice Alexis shoots when he should have passed. Both efforts were blocked, but that was greedy from the Chilean.      Oxlade-Chamberlain is still warming up. We’ll keep an eye on Giroud. Meanwhile, here’s Luke Forrester: “That challenge on Monreal was Naught On, there was simply no need Fer that. Simply a Dyer challenge. I bet poor old Nacho had Nordfeldt a tackle like that since his day in the under-21s. Still, Paul Clement probably appreciates a bit of bite from his squad – you could almost hear him under his breath: ‘Go on Mawson!’ “If Swansea want to win this then that grit in midfield will be Ki. Snatch a goal and last the 90 minutes? There’ll be champagne Corks popping later tonight!” Very good. Very good!      Good defending from the excellent Mustafi, shepherding the ball out for a goal kick under pressure from Llorente. Why on earth did Everton let him go?      Giroud is back on, through gritted teeth. He looked as though he was ready to come off at the end of that first half. We shall see how long he lasts.      : “Llorente 0, Giroud 1. Actually, I’m not entirely sure Llorente is on the pitch – has the Swansea sea air got to him already and sent him back on his travels?” Yep – he’s been disappointing. By the way, you can keep in touch with more scores here: Updated       Half-time: Swansea 0-1 Arsenal Arsenal haven’t played well, but they lead: Giroud was the man of the moment, and swept home as Swansea stood and watched. Not a great game, but the visitors are now in control. See you shortly for the second half.      Swansea have a man over, but Dyer chooses the wrong option, and shoots when he should have passed. It’s a mile over the bar. But Swansea have found a bit of zip since the goal.      Swansea on the attack, and Ki goes down in the box. Is that a penalty? No, it’s a booking for Ki for diving! Koscielny stuck out a lazy leg, but Ki was definitely looking for it, and went down very easily. Koscielny didn’t get the ball, but it seemed as though Ki was on his way down before the contact came. Big call from Mike Jones, but I like it: I think it’s the right decision. Topics  Premier League   Swansea City   Arsenal

Jack Cork and Kyle Naughton scored own goals as Swansea fell to a heavy 4-0 home defeat against Arsenal