Bizarre moment snake 'thief' stuffs python down his trousers at pet shop
Bizarre moment snake 'thief' stuffs python down his trousers at pet shop
man has been caught on CCTV stuffing a python down his trousers and walking out of a pet shop in Oregon. The suspected thief was spotted on camera walking into A TO Z pets in Portland and stealing the pet estimated to be worth $200 (£160). wner Christin Bjugan told Fox6 : “He stole out black pastel ball python. There’s cameras everywhere – and you’d think people would see them.” Reviewing the CCTV footage, Ms Bjugan recalled the moment she spotted him grabbing the snake out of a tank. “Then you’ll see him put it in his pants … yuck, just drops it right in the front,” she says. As he walks out, she comments: “Trying to act like there’s not a snake in his pants.” She also joked: “He’s lucky it wasn’t feeding day, feeding days are on Mondays and they’re very hungry.” Ms Bjugan added: “Anytime anything like this happens, it’s very frustrating. We work hard to make a living and run the business.” The snake was returned to the store after a man saw the news coverage. He claims he bought it from another man. Police have not made any arrests. ast year, b izarre photos were released of man wanted over the theft of a 7ft venetian blind . Meanwhile, the film 'Snakes on a Plane' just happened in real life .

Owner Christin Bjugan told Fox6: “He stole out black pastel ball python. There’s cameras everywhere – and you’d think people would see them.”

Reviewing the CCTV footage, Ms Bjugan recalled the moment she spotted him grabbing the snake out of a tank.

“Then you’ll see him put it in his pants … yuck, just drops it right in the front,” she says.

As he walks out, she comments: “Trying to act like there’s not a snake in his pants.”

She also joked: “He’s lucky it wasn’t feeding day, feeding days are on Mondays and they’re very hungry.”

Ms Bjugan added: “Anytime anything like this happens, it’s very frustrating. We work hard to make a living and run the business.”

The snake was returned to the store after a man saw the news coverage. He claims he bought it from another man. Police have not made any arrests.