30 Under 30 Spotlight: Derek Dolin Of Team Calvin Harris
30 Under 30 Spotlight: Derek Dolin Of Team Calvin Harris
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack O'Malley Greenburg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Derek Dolin: His work on Calvin Harris' management team at Three Six Zero helped catapult him into the 30 Under 30 Class of 2017. Derek Dolin 28 June 6, 1988 Senior Manager Three Six Zero derekdolin threesixzero.com California State University, Northridge (degree in identifying a better opportunity other than college) Los Angeles, CA There are four people in no particular order that I owe so much to. Kathy Griffin, Calvin Harris, Mark Gillespie (Three Six Zero) and Steve Levine (ICM Partners). I’d say my initial real break was when Steve Levine went out on a real limb for me. Kathy Griffin needed a new tour manager; at the time I was the 3rd assistant to Steve Levine as well as going to CSUN and interning for Conan O’Brien and clearly eager to add more madness to my life. Steve said to Kathy, “I know you’re looking for a new tour manager, Derek needs to be your guy.” When Kathy questioned how she could trust someone who was barely 21 to settle her shows every night and keep her moving on the road, Steve responded with “I have been your agent since the beginning, if Derek doesn’t work out for you, you can fire me.” I was hired there on the spot. I now had a 4th job. Elon Musk. Around 1,500. Internships were the most important thing in the world to me. If you’re in college, this should be a must-do and realize that you have a free ticket to put your foot in the door anywhere you want. If you don’t know what you want to do; even better. Use the freedom of an internship to figure out what specifically inspires you to go to work everyday with hunger, drive and passion. A motto that is really important to me was Conan O’Brien’s last line when he closed out The Tonight Show, "If you work really hard and you're kind, amazing things will happen.” Be kind, respectful, humbled by opportunity and work really hard, I hold on to those values every single day. An incredible advantage. Finding out what you love to do is a great feat in of itself. Being able to find that out and work really hard at developing what you are passionate about prior to being 30 puts your experience in an amazing position once you cross the 30 yard line. Medical research. 2017 30 Under 30: Music Influencers. Apple MacBook Pro. Favorite take out order? Pistola; an Italian restaurant on 3rd Street in Los Angeles. I love their homemade rigatoni with a spicy pink sauce. Both...I’m always on. Earth Wind & Fire - "September." Weibo. I am obsessed with knowing what our clients’ perception is in China as well as seeing everything else that is popular across China. Thankfully, I am taking Mandarin so I am starting to understand certain characters day by day.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

With the release of the latest 30 Under 30 package, the newest batch of Music category standouts joins a list of alums that includes Taylor Swift, Bruno Mars, Lady Gaga, Drake and Halsey. We asked members of the incoming class a series of questions in an attempt to learn where they come from and what makes them tick.

Name: Derek Dolin

Age: 28

DOB: June 6, 1988

Title: Senior Manager

Organization: Three Six Zero

Twitter: derekdolin

Website: threesixzero.com

Education: California State University, Northridge (degree in identifying a better opportunity other than college)

Birth City: Los Angeles, CA

What was your big break?

There are four people in no particular order that I owe so much to. Kathy Griffin, Calvin Harris, Mark Gillespie (Three Six Zero) and Steve Levine (ICM Partners). I’d say my initial real break was when Steve Levine went out on a real limb for me. Kathy Griffin needed a new tour manager; at the time I was the 3rd assistant to Steve Levine as well as going to CSUN and interning for Conan O’Brien and clearly eager to add more madness to my life. Steve said to Kathy, “I know you’re looking for a new tour manager, Derek needs to be your guy.” When Kathy questioned how she could trust someone who was barely 21 to settle her shows every night and keep her moving on the road, Steve responded with “I have been your agent since the beginning, if Derek doesn’t work out for you, you can fire me.” I was hired there on the spot. I now had a 4th job.

Who's your dream mentor? Please stick to a living person.

Elon Musk.

How many hours do you spend traveling for work on average per year?

Around 1,500.

Top tip for success?

Internships were the most important thing in the world to me. If you’re in college, this should be a must-do and realize that you have a free ticket to put your foot in the door anywhere you want. If you don’t know what you want to do; even better. Use the freedom of an internship to figure out what specifically inspires you to go to work everyday with hunger, drive and passion. A motto that is really important to me was Conan O’Brien’s last line when he closed out The Tonight Show, "If you work really hard and you're kind, amazing things will happen.” Be kind, respectful, humbled by opportunity and work really hard, I hold on to those values every single day.

Do you consider being under 30 an advantage or disadvantage?

An incredible advantage. Finding out what you love to do is a great feat in of itself. Being able to find that out and work really hard at developing what you are passionate about prior to being 30 puts your experience in an amazing position once you cross the 30 yard line.

If you could donate millions, would you give to political/social cause, medical research, religious organization, human rights/disaster relief? Choose one.

Medical research.

Best way to describe your generation: inventors, influencers, innovators, idealists?

Influencers.

Can’t-live-without gadget?

Apple MacBook Pro.

Favorite take out order?

Pistola; an Italian restaurant on 3rd Street in Los Angeles. I love their homemade rigatoni with a spicy pink sauce.

Are you a morning person or night owl?

Both...I’m always on.

Go-to karaoke number?

Earth Wind & Fire - "September."

Go-to app?

Weibo. I am obsessed with knowing what our clients’ perception is in China as well as seeing everything else that is popular across China. Thankfully, I am taking Mandarin so I am starting to understand certain characters day by day.