My Friendship With Shah Rukh Khan Just Cannot Die, Reveals KJo, In His Autobiography
My Friendship With Shah Rukh Khan Just Cannot Die, Reveals KJo, In His Autobiography
My Friendship With Shah Rukh Khan Just Cannot Die, Reveals KJo, In His Autobiography Karan Johar's autobiography is in the news these days. Whether it's his comments on his sexual orientation or his fallout with Kajol, KJo's confessions have shocked many. However, the latest excerpts from the book are about his closest friend from the fraternity, SRK. In the book, KJo did agree that there was a distance between them but all's well now. KJo revealed that he is back in the superstar's life because a friendship so strong can never die or fizzle out. Karan writes he should not have gone on record to say that he will only work with Shah Rukh as he could not live up to his promise. "When two people are so close. When they have done six feature films together and then haven't worked together on the set for a while there is bound to be a gap. That is the way the industry is," Karan writes in chapter titled "Shah Rukh Khan" in his autobiography. Karan writes that Shah Rukh is a possessive friend and he may have been hurt when the director went on to make a film without him. He writes that they both are aware of the fact that people are envious of their friendship which is why they never had a blowout. Talking about how they finally bridge the "distance" Karan writes "I'm kind of back in Shah Rukh's life in a way. When the origin of the friendship is so strong, it just cannot die. I've not allowed to either, and neither has he. It happened organically." Karan writes Shah Rukh has always been his "first go to person" and when he had a fall out with Kajol recently, he instinctively reached out to the actor. "When I had a falling out with Kajol. The first call I made was to Shah Rukh. He came to meet, spoke about it to me. Then I called Adi and we discussed it. My instinct was to call Shah Rukh first. He had nothing to do with the problem. But I still called him because somewhere Shah Rukh, Kajol and I have been so close."

Karan Johar's autobiography An Unsuitable Boy is in the news these days. Whether it's his comments on his sexual orientation or his fallout with Kajol, KJo's confessions have shocked many. However, the latest excerpts from the book are about his closest friend from the fraternity, SRK.

In the book, KJo did agree that there was a distance between them but all's well now. KJo revealed that he is back in the superstar's life because a friendship so strong can never die or fizzle out.

Karan writes he should not have gone on record to say that he will only work with Shah Rukh as he could not live up to his promise.

BCCL

"When two people are so close. When they have done six feature films together and then haven't worked together on the set for a while there is bound to be a gap. That is the way the industry is," Karan writes in chapter titled "Shah Rukh Khan" in his autobiography.

Karan writes that Shah Rukh is a possessive friend and he may have been hurt when the director went on to make a film without him.

"Shah Rukh is a very possessive person. He is a possessive friend. I think I may have hurt him when I made a film without him. And I think I got hurt because when I did, I felt he didn't give me that paternal or fraternal feeling that I had from him otherwise. I think we were two hurt friends for no reason."

He writes that they both are aware of the fact that people are envious of their friendship which is why they never had a blowout.

KJo has clearly mentioned that Shah Rukh and he may have had their "ups and downs" but the superstar will always be family to him.

Talking about how they finally bridge the "distance" Karan writes "I'm kind of back in Shah Rukh's life in a way. When the origin of the friendship is so strong, it just cannot die. I've not allowed to either, and neither has he. It happened organically."

"We met at Deepika's party celebrating Piku's success at one point when we were talking, we looked at each other I hugged him instinctively and said, 'I've missed you'. And he said, 'You've no idea how much I've missed you.' We had this moment."

Karan writes Shah Rukh has always been his "first go to person" and when he had a fall out with Kajol recently, he instinctively reached out to the actor.

Reuters

"When I had a falling out with Kajol. The first call I made was to Shah Rukh. He came to meet, spoke about it to me. Then I called Adi and we discussed it. My instinct was to call Shah Rukh first. He had nothing to do with the problem. But I still called him because somewhere Shah Rukh, Kajol and I have been so close."

(With PTI inputs)