Why 'Unnecessary' Swearing Is Not Cool And Never Will Be
Why 'Unnecessary' Swearing Is Not Cool And Never Will Be
Why 'Unnecessary' Swearing Is Not Cool And Never Will Be Now I'm not a prudish, strict 50-year-old who doesn’t swear and calls out every kid who does. Even I say ‘f^&*’ twenty times a day and for petty things that I feel are annoying. For example, when an autorickshaw driver passes by without paying heed to my call. Or when there is a long, unending queue at the ATM. Or when a colleague messes with me by giving out a spoiler. However, many of us have the annoying habit of swearing with each and every sentence. ‘F#$k, I am so hungry’ ‘Saale, #$$s @#$%^ remote de’ ‘I missed this week’s GOT, f@#^ yaaaaa’ Then there are people who think swearing is the way to show love. Many people swear and call their friends names, thinking it’s amusing and that it brings them together. A lot depends on the equation that they share. What is not cool is humiliating someone with constant swearing and hurling dirty words at them. For instance, throwing the word ‘motherf#$%^&’ in a crowded bar won’t turn any heads, but the same word uttered in a board room meeting is completely out of place. The word ‘f$$k’ is considered a vulgar word; however it also considered one of the fluid and interchangeable word as it changes with context. Here’s Osho breaking down the hilarious versions of the word for you Why do we swear? An excerpt from the book ... by Jeff Wilser on Science of Us puts a valid point forward to explain why we swear. The book cites research carried out by Dr Richard Stephens, senior lecturer in psychology at Keele University, which concluded that people can keep their hands in ice-cold water for longer if they utter swear words. In short, people swear to let out their frustration and anger. If you keep swearing unnecessarily, it directly affects your thoughts and actions. We might utter some foul words to look ‘cool’ in front of our friends. But what we don’t realise is that there really isn't anything cool or socially progressive about swearing. Think about the limited vocabulary you exhibit, everytime you use a swear word to express your feelings. It’s just a waste of words and macro skills. For instance, instead of saying ‘I feel f%^&ing amazing’, you can say ‘I feel ecstatic’. Also, unnecessary swearing can be awkward at times. Watch this. A recent University of Arizona study studied the effects of swearing. Women who were diagnosed with cancer and rheumatoid arthritis were told to swear. Therefore, to make a point, I would conclude that at times, profanity can hurt. Sure, we can embrace its lighter side, but there’s a darker side that can intimidate and upset people and can turn your cool quotient into a major turn-off.

Now I'm not a prudish, strict 50-year-old who doesn’t swear and calls out every kid who does. Even I say ‘f^&*’ twenty times a day and for petty things that I feel are annoying. For example, when an autorickshaw driver passes by without paying heed to my call. Or when there is a long, unending queue at the ATM. Or when a colleague messes with me by giving out a spoiler.

However, many of us have the annoying habit of swearing with each and every sentence.

‘F#$k, I am so hungry’

‘Saale, #$$s @#$%^ remote de’

‘I missed this week’s GOT, f@#^ yaaaaa’

Then there are people who think swearing is the way to show love. Many people swear and call their friends names, thinking it’s amusing and that it brings them together. A lot depends on the equation that they share. What is not cool is humiliating someone with constant swearing and hurling dirty words at them.

via wordpress

For instance, throwing the word ‘motherf#$%^&’ in a crowded bar won’t turn any heads, but the same word uttered in a board room meeting is completely out of place. The word ‘f$$k’ is considered a vulgar word; however it also considered one of the fluid and interchangeable word as it changes with context.

Here’s Osho breaking down the hilarious versions of the word for you

Why do we swear?

An excerpt from the book The Good News About What's Bad For You... The Bad News About What's Good For You by Jeff Wilser on Science of Us puts a valid point forward to explain why we swear. The book cites research carried out by Dr Richard Stephens, senior lecturer in psychology at Keele University, which concluded that people can keep their hands in ice-cold water for longer if they utter swear words. In short, people swear to let out their frustration and anger.

If you keep swearing unnecessarily, it directly affects your thoughts and actions. We might utter some foul words to look ‘cool’ in front of our friends. But what we don’t realise is that there really isn't anything cool or socially progressive about swearing.

Think about the limited vocabulary you exhibit, everytime you use a swear word to express your feelings. It’s just a waste of words and macro skills. For instance, instead of saying ‘I feel f%^&ing amazing’, you can say ‘I feel ecstatic’.

Also, unnecessary swearing can be awkward at times. Watch this.

A recent University of Arizona study studied the effects of swearing. Women who were diagnosed with cancer and rheumatoid arthritis were told to swear. What they found was that the women who cursed received less support from loved ones. It showed that people were repelled by counter­stereotypical behavior.

Therefore, to make a point, I would conclude that at times, profanity can hurt. Sure, we can embrace its lighter side, but there’s a darker side that can intimidate and upset people and can turn your cool quotient into a major turn-off.

Facebook card image: Agantuk