Why Fake News Is An Antitrust Problem
Why Fake News Is An Antitrust Problem
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Washington Bytes       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. CEO Mark Zuckerberg has steadily increased user time spent on Facebook's platform (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez) Facebook continues to face criticism for its failure to stop the proliferation of fake news. CEO Mark Zuckerberg has responded that Facebook must ensure that any fixes to address the problem do not introduce bias into the system. But is Facebook already biased? When viewed through an antitrust lens, news publishers are Facebook’s competitors. They compete for users' time spent online, user data and advertising dollars. This competitive dynamic may in part explain why Will Lewis, Dow Jones CEO and WSJ publisher, has accused Facebook (and Google) of "killing news." Indeed, competitive biases baked into Facebook’s design deserve a healthy portion of the responsibility for the rise of fake news. By pulling technological levers that keep users on its platform, thereby lessening clicks to news publishers’ sites, Facebook has sped the decline of legitimate news and provided a breeding ground for the fake variety. While traditional media organizations need to recoup their investment in quality news reporting by capturing web traffic, fake news organizations have no such overhead. Their minimal costs of production mean they need only coax a small percentage of those who interact with their articles on Facebook to click outside of the platform. Articles claiming that Hillary Clinton sold weapons to ISIS are conducive to commenting and sharing on the platform itself, without needing to click away to learn more details. Although fake news’ outrageous nature plays a major role in their virality, ignoring the role of Facebook’s design features that deter users from clicking to legitimate news publishers’ sites is missing an important contributor to the problem. And it overlooks how the fake news problem is in large part a competition problem. Facebook is a juggernaut in news distribution, big data and online advertising. Prioritizing content that is either native to Facebook’s platform or that does not require clicks to competitors’ sites looks a lot like what led to antitrust charges against Google in Europe and an antitrust investigation of Google here in the US . The EU charged Google with prioritizing its own Google Shopping services in its search results. When a digital platform with huge market share competes against companies that depend on the platform for distribution, the fight is hardly a fair one. In news distribution, Facebook’s share is big indeed. 66% of Facebook’s 1.71 billion US users receive news from the platform, according to Pew Research . Since Facebook reaches 67% of US adults, 44% of the US population gets news from Facebook.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Facebook continues to face criticism for its failure to stop the proliferation of fake news. CEO Mark Zuckerberg has responded that Facebook must ensure that any fixes to address the problem do not introduce bias into the system.

But is Facebook already biased?

When viewed through an antitrust lens, news publishers are Facebook’s competitors. They compete for users' time spent online, user data and advertising dollars. This competitive dynamic may in part explain why Will Lewis, Dow Jones CEO and WSJ publisher, has accused Facebook (and Google) of "killing news."

Indeed, competitive biases baked into Facebook’s design deserve a healthy portion of the responsibility for the rise of fake news. By pulling technological levers that keep users on its platform, thereby lessening clicks to news publishers’ sites, Facebook has sped the decline of legitimate news and provided a breeding ground for the fake variety.

While traditional media organizations need to recoup their investment in quality news reporting by capturing web traffic, fake news organizations have no such overhead. Their minimal costs of production mean they need only coax a small percentage of those who interact with their articles on Facebook to click outside of the platform. Articles claiming that Hillary Clinton sold weapons to ISIS are conducive to commenting and sharing on the platform itself, without needing to click away to learn more details.

Although fake news’ outrageous nature plays a major role in their virality, ignoring the role of Facebook’s design features that deter users from clicking to legitimate news publishers’ sites is missing an important contributor to the problem. And it overlooks how the fake news problem is in large part a competition problem.

Facebook is a juggernaut in news distribution, big data and online advertising. Prioritizing content that is either native to Facebook’s platform or that does not require clicks to competitors’ sites looks a lot like what led to antitrust charges against Google in Europe and an antitrust investigation of Google here in the US.

The EU charged Google with prioritizing its own Google Shopping services in its search results. When a digital platform with huge market share competes against companies that depend on the platform for distribution, the fight is hardly a fair one.

In news distribution, Facebook’s share is big indeed. 66% of Facebook’s 1.71 billion US users receive news from the platform, according to Pew Research. Since Facebook reaches 67% of US adults, 44% of the US population gets news from Facebook.