Trump rips 'all talk,' 'no action' civil rights icon Lewis
Trump rips 'all talk,' 'no action' civil rights icon Lewis
Trump rips 'all talk,' 'no action' civil rights icon Lewis Updated 0121 GMT (0921 HKT) January 15, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights "Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district," Trump said Lewis said Friday Trump was not a "legitimate" president President-elect Donald Trump harshly responded to civil rights icon and Georgia Rep. John Lewis on Saturday, calling him "all talk" and "no action" after Lewis said Trump was not a "legitimate" president. Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to...... mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results. All talk, talk, talk - no action or results. Sad! Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S. I can use all the help I can get! Ahead of #MLKday2017 , let us remember that many have tried to silence @repjohnlewis over the years. All have failed. John Lewis is an icon of the Civil Rights Movement who is fearless in the pursuit of justice and equality. He deserves better than this. https://t.co/WX1QDCKfzP . @repjohnlewis knows true sacrifice. @realDonaldTrump has no clue. When cluelessness collides with power oppression results. Resistance! https://t.co/Eu1vWbetsl John Lewis and his "talk" have changed the world. https://t.co/qeUloAkeTx  https://t.co/aH2vDLjKk9 Dude, just stop. https://t.co/UCIqhqGnXu Democrats skipping inauguration CNN's David Siegel contributed to this report.

Story highlights "Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district," Trump said

Lewis said Friday Trump was not a "legitimate" president

Washington (CNN) President-elect Donald Trump harshly responded to civil rights icon and Georgia Rep. John Lewis on Saturday, calling him "all talk" and "no action" after Lewis said Trump was not a "legitimate" president.

"Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results. All talk, talk, talk - no action or results. Sad," Trump tweeted Saturday, which happened to fall on the weekend of the Martin Luther King Jr. federal holiday.

Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017

mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results. All talk, talk, talk - no action or results. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017

Trump later doubled down on his criticism -- though he did not take aim at Lewis' district -- tweeting Saturday night: "Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S. I can use all the help I can get!"

Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S. I can use all the help I can get! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2017

Lewis -- an ally of King who was brutally beaten by police in Selma, Alabama, in 1965 while marching for civil rights -- represents a Georgia district that includes most of Atlanta. On the campaign trail, Trump regularly decried crime in urban areas while pledging to revitalize neighborhoods primarily populated by black Americans.

A Hillary Clinton supporter, Lewis criticized Trump's ascension to head of state due to Russia's alleged meddling in the 2016 election.

Read More