Star Wars 9: Carrie Fisher won't be digitally added, Lucasfilm confirms
Star Wars 9: Carrie Fisher won't be digitally added, Lucasfilm confirms
Rumours suggested that the studio was already hard at work attempting to posthumously add Fisher - who died last month - into , the report stating that plans were moving ahead with "unseemly haste." Many expected the studios would "bring back" Fisher following Peter Cushing's mildly controversial appearance in prequel 22 years after his death. While Fisher had completed work on the as-of-yet untitled , it's unknown how much the actor's unexpected passing will affect the story of Colin Trevorrow's film. Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher               Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher       American actor and singer Debbie Reynolds smiles and holds her infant daughter, Carrie Fisher   Getty        American actress Debbie Reynolds with her daughter Carrie Fisher   Getty        Actress Debbie Reynolds, poses with her children Carrie Fisher and Todd Fisher   Getty        Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher arrive at the premiere of 'Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith'   Getty        Actress Carrie Fisher and her mother, actress Debbie Reynolds   Getty        Actress Debbie Reynolds accepts the Life Achievement Award from her daughter, actress Carrie Fisher onstage at the 21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California.   Getty        Actresses Carrie Fisher, Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award recipient Debbie Reynolds, and Billie Lourd pose in the press room during the 21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California   Getty        A candle is seen on the star for Debbie Reynolds on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood, California   Getty        A view of a temporary star made by fans in tribute to actress Carrie Fisher on Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood, California   Getty  Fisher died on December 27, one day before her mother Debbie Reynolds. Last weekend's Golden Globes ceremony paid tribute to the icons in touching style . More about: Star Wars Star Wars 8 Carrie Fisher Star Wars 9 Comments

Lucasfilm has uncharacteristically broken its silence to address rumours it was to digitally recreate Carrie Fisher's performance as General Leia Organa in an upcoming Star Wars film.

Rumours suggested that the studio was already hard at work attempting to posthumously add Fisher - who died last month - into Episode IX, the BBC Newsnight report stating that plans were moving ahead with "unseemly haste."

“We don’t normally respond to fan or press speculation," responded Lucasfilm via the official Star Wars site, "but there is a rumour circulating that we would like to address.

“We want to assure our fans that Lucasfilm has no plans to digitally recreate Carrie Fisher’s performance as Princess or General Leia Organa.”

HBO to release Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds documentary

Many expected the studios would "bring back" Fisher following Peter Cushing's mildly controversial appearance in Star Wars prequel Rogue One - 22 years after his death.

While Fisher had completed work on the as-of-yet untitled Episode VIII, it's unknown how much the actor's unexpected passing will affect the story of Colin Trevorrow's film.

Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher







9 show all Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher















1/9 American actor and singer Debbie Reynolds smiles and holds her infant daughter, Carrie Fisher Getty

2/9 American actress Debbie Reynolds with her daughter Carrie Fisher Getty

3/9 Actress Debbie Reynolds, poses with her children Carrie Fisher and Todd Fisher Getty

4/9 Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher arrive at the premiere of 'Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith' Getty

5/9 Actress Carrie Fisher and her mother, actress Debbie Reynolds Getty

6/9 Actress Debbie Reynolds accepts the Life Achievement Award from her daughter, actress Carrie Fisher onstage at the 21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California. Getty

7/9 Actresses Carrie Fisher, Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award recipient Debbie Reynolds, and Billie Lourd pose in the press room during the 21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California Getty

8/9 A candle is seen on the star for Debbie Reynolds on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood, California Getty

9/9 A view of a temporary star made by fans in tribute to actress Carrie Fisher on Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood, California Getty

Fisher died on December 27, one day before her mother Debbie Reynolds. Last weekend's Golden Globes ceremony paid tribute to the icons in touching style.