Former Giants player saves man from roof of burning home
Former Giants player saves man from roof of burning home
A 2015 photo of Cole Farrand of the New York Giants NFL football team.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  A former New York Giants player rescued a man from the roof of a burning home near Rockaway Township, New Jersey this week, CBS New York reports . Intense flames shot out of the house early Monday morning. When Cole Farrand, 23, woke up, he ran to the house next door and saw a man trapped on the roof. Farrand used an extension ladder from his grandparents’ house to bring the man to safety as his frightened mother watched. “He’s rescuing this man and the house is going, ‘Boom, bang!’ and the flames are flying up into the sky,” said Beverly Farrand. “Cole, he’s humble. He thinks anyone would’ve done that, and I don’t think just anyone would do it.” Former New York Giants player Cole Farrand rescued a man from a burning house in Rockaway Township, New Jersey. It took volunteer firefighters several hours to contain the fire. It was unclear late Thursday how it started. Farrand signed with the Giants in May 2015 after starting 29 games for Maryland. The linebacker was released in September of the same year.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. -- A former New York Giants player rescued a man from the roof of a burning home near Rockaway Township, New Jersey this week, CBS New York reports.

Intense flames shot out of the house early Monday morning.

When Cole Farrand, 23, woke up, he ran to the house next door and saw a man trapped on the roof.

Farrand used an extension ladder from his grandparents’ house to bring the man to safety as his frightened mother watched.

“He’s rescuing this man and the house is going, ‘Boom, bang!’ and the flames are flying up into the sky,” said Beverly Farrand. “Cole, he’s humble. He thinks anyone would’ve done that, and I don’t think just anyone would do it.”

CBS New York/Beverly Farrand

It took volunteer firefighters several hours to contain the fire. It was unclear late Thursday how it started.



Farrand signed with the Giants in May 2015 after starting 29 games for Maryland. The linebacker was released in September of the same year.