Capitol: Painting Depicting Police as Pigs Violates Rules, Will Be Removed

Capitol: Painting Depicting Police as Pigs Violates Rules, Will Be Removed // // // // // // A painting depicting police officers as pigs that a Missouri representative hung in a Capitol Hill hallway will be removed for good next week, the Architect of the Capitol said. The 2016 painting by then-high school senior David Pulphus won a contest organized by Rep. W. Lacy Clay (D-St. Louis), and the congressman later affixed the art to a wall in a hallway connecting House office buildings to the Capitol. Several congressmen, including Reps. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) and Brian Babin (R-Texas) have, on separate occasions, removed the painting and returned it to Clay's office. As FoxNews.com reported : [Architect of the Capitol Stephen] Ayers determined the painting violates the House Building Commission's rules and will be removed Tuesday after the federal holiday. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), the former Sheriff of King County, Washington, wrote to Ayers demanding the artwork be removed, and arguing the painting “is in clear violation of the Suitability Guidelines outlined in the official rules for the competition.” In particular, Reichert asserted that the rules bar art that depicts “subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature.”... Rohrabacher called the painting an “insult to all police.” Earlier this week , the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.), reportedly threatened to "kick somebody's [backside]" if the painting was removed again. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

A painting depicting police officers as pigs that a Missouri representative hung in a Capitol Hill hallway will be removed for good next week, the Architect of the Capitol said.

The 2016 painting by then-high school senior David Pulphus won a contest organized by Rep. W. Lacy Clay (D-St. Louis), and the congressman later affixed the art to a wall in a hallway connecting House office buildings to the Capitol.

Several congressmen, including Reps. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) and Brian Babin (R-Texas) have, on separate occasions, removed the painting and returned it to Clay's office.

'Enough Is Enough': GOP Rep Recounts Removing Capitol Art Showing Police As Pigs

GOP Rep Slams Dems for Hanging Painting Depicting Police as Pigs in U.S. Capitol

Black Caucus Chair: We May Have to 'Kick Somebody's A**' Over Cops-Pigs Painting Removal

As FoxNews.com reported:

[Architect of the Capitol Stephen] Ayers determined the painting violates the House Building Commission's rules and will be removed Tuesday after the federal holiday. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), the former Sheriff of King County, Washington, wrote to Ayers demanding the artwork be removed, and arguing the painting “is in clear violation of the Suitability Guidelines outlined in the official rules for the competition.” In particular, Reichert asserted that the rules bar art that depicts “subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature.”... Rohrabacher called the painting an “insult to all police.”

Earlier this week, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.), reportedly threatened to "kick somebody's [backside]" if the painting was removed again.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

More and More Communities Are Painting Blue Lines on Streets to Support Police

Sheriff Clarke: All Cop Killers Should Get the Death Penalty

WATCH: Drunk Guy Rings in New Year by Belly-Flopping on Cop's Windshield