President Obama Gives Final Weekly Address: 'We Can't Take Our Democracy for Granted'
Obama Gives Final Weekly Address: 'We Can't Take Our Democracy for Granted'
Shares               In his final weekly address to the nation, President Obama urged the American people to be engaged citizens in the years ahead. “We can’t take our democracy for granted,” Obama said in the video of the address that went live Saturday morning. “All of us, regardless of party, should throw ourselves into the work of citizenship. Not just when there’s an election, not just when our narrow interest is at stake, but over the full span of a lifetime.” Obama’s remarks come in his final days in the White House, with less than a week until President-elect Donald Trump is sworn into office Friday.   The president’s last weekly address echoed his farewell speech in Chicago earlier this week when he warned that the nation is becoming increasingly divided and called on Americans to remain vigilant about democracy. “Our success depends on our participation, regardless of which way the pendulum of power swings,” Obama said in his final weekly address. “It falls on each of us to be guardians of our democracy; to embrace the joyous task we’ve been given to continually try to improve this great nation of ours. Because for all our outward differences, we all share the same proud title: citizen.” Obama acknowledged self-government can be “hard, slow, sometimes frustrating, but always vital.” The 44th president ended his message on a positive note, saying: “Eight years later, I am even more optimistic about our country’s promise.” Obama dedicated his last weekly address to the American people, saying it’s been an “honor of my life” to serve as president of the United States. “Every day, I learned from you,” he said. “You made me a better president, and you made me a better man.” Shares                  Obama Gives Final Weekly Address: 'We Can't Take Our Democracy for Granted'   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   The Note: The Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Comparing US to Putin's Russia Draws Bipartisan Backlash   Democrat: 'Everything Depends' on Gorsuch's Answers   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Trump: Allow Those Into US Who 'Want to Love Our Country'   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win

In his final weekly address to the nation, President Obama urged the American people to be engaged citizens in the years ahead.

“We can’t take our democracy for granted,” Obama said in the video of the address that went live Saturday morning. “All of us, regardless of party, should throw ourselves into the work of citizenship. Not just when there’s an election, not just when our narrow interest is at stake, but over the full span of a lifetime.”

Obama’s remarks come in his final days in the White House, with less than a week until President-elect Donald Trump is sworn into office Friday.

The president’s last weekly address echoed his farewell speech in Chicago earlier this week when he warned that the nation is becoming increasingly divided and called on Americans to remain vigilant about democracy.

“Our success depends on our participation, regardless of which way the pendulum of power swings,” Obama said in his final weekly address. “It falls on each of us to be guardians of our democracy; to embrace the joyous task we’ve been given to continually try to improve this great nation of ours. Because for all our outward differences, we all share the same proud title: citizen.”

Obama acknowledged self-government can be “hard, slow, sometimes frustrating, but always vital.”

The 44th president ended his message on a positive note, saying: “Eight years later, I am even more optimistic about our country’s promise.”

Obama dedicated his last weekly address to the American people, saying it’s been an “honor of my life” to serve as president of the United States.

“Every day, I learned from you,” he said. “You made me a better president, and you made me a better man.”