Premiering Tonight at 7pm ET: Martha MacCallum Hosts 'The First 100 Days'

Premiering Tonight at 7pm ET: Martha MacCallum Hosts 'The First 100 Days' 'The First 100 Days' starts Monday on Fox News Channel. Join @marthamaccallum at 7p ET. #First100  pic.twitter.com/V0JuRuhxD0 — Fox News (@FoxNews) January 13, 2017 Join us on Fox News Channel Monday, for the premiere of a new live hour hosted by Martha MacCallum. "The First 100 Days" will bring you an up-close, nightly look at the critical decisions and key political maneuvers as President Donald Trump seeks to implement his agenda. Next week, Martha will have all the latest developments leading up to the Friday inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States. MacCallum told Tucker Carlson this week that her goal for the show is to hold the new administration accountable for the promises made to voters. "[Donald Trump] made a lot of promises. He promised to cut taxes, to do corporate tax reform, regulations, all of these things that are supposed to roll out on day one. We are really going to be holding him accountable," said MacCallum. She also explained that the program will be devoted to figuring out what Americans think about the start of the Trump presidency. "We are going to talk to focus groups and people out there about what they think in terms of how it's going, because he has put the bar pretty high for himself. And we're gonna see if he measures up to it," she said. MacCallum has been the co-host of "America's Newsroom" alongside Bill Hemmer, on Fox News Channel. Wishing the best to my FIRST CLASS co-anchor @marthamaccallum . "The First 100 Days" Monday 7pm ET. (It's only 100 Days!) You'll crush it! — Bill Hemmer (@BillHemmer) January 13, 2017 Shannon Bream will take the morning spot while Martha moves into cable news' #1 primetime lineup. Watch the interview below and don't miss the the premiere of "The First 100 Days" on !

'The First 100 Days' starts Monday on Fox News Channel. Join @marthamaccallum at 7p ET. #First100 pic.twitter.com/V0JuRuhxD0 — Fox News (@FoxNews) January 13, 2017

Join us on Fox News Channel Monday, January 16th at 7:00pm ET for the premiere of a new live hour hosted by Martha MacCallum.

"The First 100 Days" will bring you an up-close, nightly look at the critical decisions and key political maneuvers as President Donald Trump seeks to implement his agenda.

Next week, Martha will have all the latest developments leading up to the Friday inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States.

MacCallum told Tucker Carlson this week that her goal for the show is to hold the new administration accountable for the promises made to voters.

"[Donald Trump] made a lot of promises. He promised to cut taxes, to do corporate tax reform, regulations, all of these things that are supposed to roll out on day one. We are really going to be holding him accountable," said MacCallum.

She also explained that the program will be devoted to figuring out what Americans think about the start of the Trump presidency.

"We are going to talk to focus groups and people out there about what they think in terms of how it's going, because he has put the bar pretty high for himself. And we're gonna see if he measures up to it," she said.

MacCallum has been the co-host of "America's Newsroom" alongside Bill Hemmer, weekdays at 9am ET on Fox News Channel.

Wishing the best to my FIRST CLASS co-anchor @marthamaccallum. "The First 100 Days" Monday 7pm ET. (It's only 100 Days!) You'll crush it! — Bill Hemmer (@BillHemmer) January 13, 2017

Shannon Bream will take the morning spot while Martha moves into cable news' #1 primetime lineup.

Watch the interview below and don't miss the the premiere of "The First 100 Days" on Monday at 7pm ET!

Cavuto to CNN: 'You're Experiencing What We've Been Living for Last 8 Years'

Judge Jeanine: DOJ Probe of Comey Is 'Nonsense,' Lynch Should Be the Target

Hannity Exposes How the U.S. Mainstream Media Is a 'Corrupt Cabal'