Donald Trump's inauguration: Schedule of the day
Donald Trump's inauguration: Schedule of the day
Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Jan 20, 2017 8:58 AM EST Donald Trump will be sworn in as president on Friday, Jan. 20 with an inauguration ceremony in Washington, D.C. followed by an inaugural parade to the White House. Live Coverage of Inauguration Day Here’s a rundown of the official government events that weekend: How to watch Donald Trump’s inauguration 3:00 p.m. ET Wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia Welcome celebrations at the Lincoln Memorial, which include local school bands as well as celebrity appearances by Toby Keith, Jennifer Holliday, and 3 Doors Down The president-elect and vice president-elect will also attend an inaugural candlelight dinner at Union Station 8:30 a.m. ET Donald Trump and his family attend a church service at St. John’s episcopal church 9:30 a.m. ET Mr. Trump and his wife will have tea with President Barack and First Lady Michelle Obama West front of the U.S. Capitol Building 9:30 a.m. ET Musical guests perform Inauguration 2017: All the musical guests scheduled to perform 11:15 a.m. ET Opening remarks begin 12:00 p.m. ET Donald Trump is sworn in by the Supreme Court’s Chief Justice John Roberts Mr. Trump will deliver his inaugural address after he his sworn in. The inaugural parade will take place following the swearing-in ceremony, starting from the steps of the Capitol to the White House down Pennsylvania Ave. Three official inaugural balls will take place Jan. 20 as well. Two of them will be held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center and the Armed Services Ball will be held at the National Building Museum. Interfaith prayer service will be held at Washington’s National Cathedral                Tweet     Stumble     Email

Donald Trump will be sworn in as president on Friday, Jan. 20 with an inauguration ceremony in Washington, D.C. followed by an inaugural parade to the White House.

CBSN Live Video Stream of the inauguration begins at 7:00 a.m. ET

Here’s a rundown of the official government events that weekend:

Inauguration 2017 Schedule

Thursday, Jan. 19

3:00 p.m. ET Wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia

Welcome celebrations at the Lincoln Memorial, which include local school bands as well as celebrity appearances by Toby Keith, Jennifer Holliday, and 3 Doors Down

The president-elect and vice president-elect will also attend an inaugural candlelight dinner at Union Station

Friday, Jan. 20

8:30 a.m. ET Donald Trump and his family attend a church service at St. John’s episcopal church

9:30 a.m. ET Mr. Trump and his wife will have tea with President Barack and First Lady Michelle Obama

Inauguration ceremony

Where: West front of the U.S. Capitol Building

When:

9:30 a.m. ET Musical guests perform

11:15 a.m. ET Opening remarks begin

12:00 p.m. ET Donald Trump is sworn in by the Supreme Court’s Chief Justice John Roberts

Mr. Trump will deliver his inaugural address after he his sworn in.

The inaugural parade will take place following the swearing-in ceremony, starting from the steps of the Capitol to the White House down Pennsylvania Ave.

Three official inaugural balls will take place Jan. 20 as well. Two of them will be held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center and the Armed Services Ball will be held at the National Building Museum.

Saturday, Jan. 21

Interfaith prayer service will be held at Washington’s National Cathedral