Raiders Punter Marquette King Challenges Broncos Fan to Fight, Deletes Account Instead
Raiders Punter Marquette King Challenges Broncos Fan to Fight, Deletes Account Instead
Oakland Raiders Marquette King NFL call out the player again ask Kansas City Chiefs Travis Kelce Related Raiders' Marquette King Credits Future, Travis Porter for Helping Him Become One of the NFL's Best Punters A Recent History of Kickers and Punters Getting Destroyed on the Football Field @thekidmcmanus is probably the second coolest kickers in the NFL. Dude is all about this team. Rarity for kickers." McManus was more than content with being the second coolest kicker in the NFL. Yeah I think I'm second coolest too https://t.co/Kzwt2BXoHz Then, @JRussGrownUp went a step further when he took a shot at King, telling McManus, "If you started dancing after punts like that punk ass raider you'd take #1." Take note, everyone. If you try and diss Marquette, he will find out, even if you don't @ him. King responded by challenging him to a spot on the undercard of the Chris Brown vs. Soulja Boy fight. Get the Gloves I'll show u a punk. We can be the undercard in that Soulja Boy vs Chris Brown fight! https://t.co/XxyMdH7BnY The guy didn't just avoid firing back at King, he deleted his account altogether. Just because Marquette uses his right foot for a living, it doesn't mean you still can't catch these fists. sportstips@complex.com

Oakland Raiders punter Marquette King is quickly becoming our favorite NFL player. In addition to being one of the best in the league at his position, King is one entertaining dude. What other player would celebrate a penalty by incorporating the referee's flag in their dance, and then use social media to call out the player who snitched on him? While other punters are fearful of getting owned (again) by a return man, King will tell you what's exactly on his mind. Just ask Kansas City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce. That brings us to King's most recent clash with a Denver Broncos fan on Twitter.

Former Twitter user @JRussGrownUp sent a tweet to Broncos kicker Brandon McManus, saying, "@thekidmcmanus is probably the second coolest kickers in the NFL. Dude is all about this team. Rarity for kickers." McManus was more than content with being the second coolest kicker in the NFL.

Yeah I think I'm second coolest too https://t.co/Kzwt2BXoHz — Brandon McManus (@thekidmcmanus) January 13, 2017

Then, @JRussGrownUp went a step further when he took a shot at King, telling McManus, "If you started dancing after punts like that punk ass raider you'd take #1." Take note, everyone. If you try and diss Marquette, he will find out, even if you don't @ him. King responded by challenging him to a spot on the undercard of the Chris Brown vs. Soulja Boy fight.

Get the Gloves I'll show u a punk. We can be the undercard in that Soulja Boy vs Chris Brown fight! https://t.co/XxyMdH7BnY — Marquette King (@MarquetteKing) January 14, 2017

The guy didn't just avoid firing back at King, he deleted his account altogether. Just because Marquette uses his right foot for a living, it doesn't mean you still can't catch these fists.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.