Syracuse Univ: Students Should Report Color Coded Signs as 'Bias Incident'

Syracuse Univ: Students Should Report Color Coded Signs as 'Bias Incident' // // // "Greg Gutfeld Show" panelists Katherine Timpf and Tyrus sounded off on a new policy at Syracuse University in upstate New York that allows students to file complaints about "bias incidents." Timpf criticized one example the university gave in particular, "Displaying a sign that is color-coded pink for girls and blue for boys": "Is it stereotypical? Sure. But if you're going to describe it as "abhorrent" [as Syracuse has], you're a crazy person," she said on "Fox & Friends Weekend". Tyrus also found the new policy ridiculous, remarking that a man's girlfriend could essentially file a report with the school if he engaged in a "guys' night out". Regarding such stereotypes or biases, Timpf joked, "ignore it, or call them a name back." What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

"Greg Gutfeld Show" panelists Katherine Timpf and Tyrus sounded off on a new policy at Syracuse University in upstate New York that allows students to file complaints about "bias incidents."

Timpf criticized one example the university gave in particular, "Displaying a sign that is color-coded pink for girls and blue for boys":

Capitol: Painting Depicting Police as Pigs Violates Rules, Will Be Removed

Gutfeld: Liberals Are Scared That They Might Actually Like Trump

Gutfeld Slams BuzzFeed's 'BS' Explanation for Publishing Trump Dossier

"Is it stereotypical? Sure. But if you're going to describe it as "abhorrent" [as Syracuse has], you're a crazy person," she said on "Fox & Friends Weekend".

Tyrus also found the new policy ridiculous, remarking that a man's girlfriend could essentially file a report with the school if he engaged in a "guys' night out".

Regarding such stereotypes or biases, Timpf joked, "ignore it, or call them a name back."

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Gutfeld: Why Obama's Farewell Speech Didn't Move Me

Kurtz: BuzzFeed's 'Bubbling Stew' of Trump Rumors 'A Perversion of Journalism'

Ben Stein: Hollywood a 'Bunch of Bullies and Thugs Trying to Shut Down' Dissent