New US Coin Will Depict Lady Liberty as a Black Woman for First Time

New US Coin Will Depict Lady Liberty as a Black Woman for First Time View #BTS footage about the production of the 2017 American Liberty High Relief Gold Coin: https://t.co/5mEaMkoqEM . #USMint225  @USTreasury  pic.twitter.com/b6kYyRugDH — United States Mint (@usmint) January 12, 2017 The United States Mint said it will release a commemorative gold coin which depicts Lady Liberty as an African-American woman for the first time. The 2017 American Liberty 225th Anniversary Gold Coin has a $100 face value and is set for release on April 6. The Mint said in a news release that the coin will be 24-karat gold, weigh one ounce and come with a Certificate of Authenticity. "The 2017 American Liberty 225th Anniversary Gold Coin is the first in a series of 24-karat gold coins that will feature designs which depict an allegorical Liberty in a variety of contemporary forms-including designs representing Asian-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Indian-Americans among others-to reflect the cultural and ethnic diversity of the United States. These 24-karat gold coins will be issued biennially," the release states. The Mint released a behind-the-scenes video yesterday detailing the making of the historic coin.

The United States Mint said it will release a commemorative gold coin which depicts Lady Liberty as an African-American woman for the first time.

The 2017 American Liberty 225th Anniversary Gold Coin has a $100 face value and is set for release on April 6.

The Mint said in a news release that the coin will be 24-karat gold, weigh one ounce and come with a Certificate of Authenticity.

"The 2017 American Liberty 225th Anniversary Gold Coin is the first in a series of 24-karat gold coins that will feature designs which depict an allegorical Liberty in a variety of contemporary forms-including designs representing Asian-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Indian-Americans among others-to reflect the cultural and ethnic diversity of the United States. These 24-karat gold coins will be issued biennially," the release states.

The Mint released a behind-the-scenes video yesterday detailing the making of the historic coin.

Report: Obama Family Dog, Sunny, Bit 18-Year-Old White House Guest

Krispy Kreme Employee Writes 'Black Lives Matter' on Officer's Order

NYPD: 12-Year-Old Boy Tried to Rob Classmate of Chicken McNugget at Gunpoint