Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson to Announce Oscar Nominees
Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson to Announce Oscar Nominees
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson to Announce Oscar Nominees  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Oscar winners Brie Larson and Jennifer Hudson will help announce this year's Academy Award nominees. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences on Friday (Jan. 13) revealed the actresses will be among those who announce nominees in 24 categories on Jan. 24. Also presenting will be Oscar nominees Jason Reitman and Ken Watanabe and Oscar-winning cinematographer Emmanuel "Chivo" Lubezki. In a departure from previous years, the academy is ditching a live audience for the nomination announcements and will livestream them on its website, Oscars.org . Some of the presentation will also air on .  Jimmy Kimmel is hosting this year's ceremony, which will air on Feb. 26 on ABC. Larson won the best actress award last year for , and Hudson won the supporting actress award in 2007 for .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Oscar winners Brie Larson and Jennifer Hudson will help announce this year's Academy Award nominees.

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences on Friday (Jan. 13) revealed the actresses will be among those who announce nominees in 24 categories on Jan. 24. Also presenting will be Oscar nominees Jason Reitman and Ken Watanabe and Oscar-winning cinematographer Emmanuel "Chivo" Lubezki.

In a departure from previous years, the academy is ditching a live audience for the nomination announcements and will livestream them on its website, Oscars.org. Some of the presentation will also air on Good Morning America.

Jimmy Kimmel is hosting this year's ceremony, which will air on Feb. 26 on ABC.

Larson won the best actress award last year for Room, and Hudson won the supporting actress award in 2007 for Dreamgirls.