Sky Pulls Controversial ‘Urban Myths’ Michael Jackson Episode With Joseph Fiennes
Sky Pulls Controversial ‘Urban Myths’ Michael Jackson Episode With Joseph Fiennes
Following a backlash from Michael Jackson’s family, Sky has decided not to air the episode of its upcoming comedy series , which contains controversial footage starring Joseph Fiennes as the late pop star. In a statement, a company spokesperson said: “We have taken the decision not to broadcast 'Elizabeth, Michael and Marlon,' a half-hour episode from the Sky Arts  series, in light of the concerns expressed by Michael Jackson’s immediate family. We set out to take a light-hearted look at reportedly true events and never intended to cause any offence. Joseph Fiennes fully supports our decision.” The episode in question centres on Michael Jackson taking a road trip from New York to Los Angeles with Elizabeth Taylor and Marlon Brando following the 9/11 terror attacks. “I’m so incredibly offended by it,” Jackson’s daughter Paris tweeted earlier this week, “as I’m sure plenty of people are as well, and it honestly makes me want to vomit.”  @TheMJCast i'm so incredibly offended by it, as i'm sure plenty of people are as well, and it honestly makes me want to vomit. — Paris-Michael K. J. (@ParisJackson) January 11, 2017  Other episodes of the series, such as Cary Grant (played by Ben Chaplin) taking LSD with Dr. Timothy Leary (played by Aiden Gillen), are still set to air as normal. Related stories 'Urban Myths' Trailer Offers First Look At Joseph Fiennes As Michael Jackson 'The Handmaid's Tale' Never More Relevant, Participants Insist - TCA 21st Century Fox Submits Formal Offer To Buy Sky For $14.6B : Follow us on , ,

Following a backlash from Michael Jackson’s family, Sky has decided not to air the episode of its upcoming comedy series Urban Myths, which contains controversial footage starring Joseph Fiennes as the late pop star.

In a statement, a company spokesperson said: “We have taken the decision not to broadcast 'Elizabeth, Michael and Marlon,' a half-hour episode from the Sky Arts Urban Myths series, in light of the concerns expressed by Michael Jackson’s immediate family. We set out to take a light-hearted look at reportedly true events and never intended to cause any offence. Joseph Fiennes fully supports our decision.”

The episode in question centres on Michael Jackson taking a road trip from New York to Los Angeles with Elizabeth Taylor and Marlon Brando following the 9/11 terror attacks.

“I’m so incredibly offended by it,” Jackson’s daughter Paris tweeted earlier this week, “as I’m sure plenty of people are as well, and it honestly makes me want to vomit.”

@TheMJCast i'm so incredibly offended by it, as i'm sure plenty of people are as well, and it honestly makes me want to vomit. — Paris-Michael K. J. (@ParisJackson) January 11, 2017

Other episodes of the series, such as Cary Grant (played by Ben Chaplin) taking LSD with Dr. Timothy Leary (played by Aiden Gillen), are still set to air as normal.

Related stories

'Urban Myths' Trailer Offers First Look At Joseph Fiennes As Michael Jackson

'The Handmaid's Tale' Never More Relevant, Participants Insist - TCA

21st Century Fox Submits Formal Offer To Buy Sky For $14.6B