You Won't Believe Why This Woman Is Suing Chipotle for Over $2 Billion
You Won't Believe Why This Woman Is Suing Chipotle for Over $2 Billion
With the multitude of reasons why people try to sue (read: get over on) larger corporations, this woman's lawsuit against Chipotle isn't insane; it's the price that's got people going nuts. A report from says a California woman by the name of Leah Caldwell is actually suing Chipotle, the national chain serving people with the finest in Mexican grill, for $2.2 billion. Yes, that's a "b." That's reportedly what the company would make in profit over a nine-year period. Why? Because they used a photograph of her without her consent. The lawsuit states that a photographer took Caldwell's picture in 2006 at a Chipotle restaurant in Denver, and she refused to sign a release form. It looks like she figured that was enough to keep her photo out of whatever Chipotle ads are out there, but she was surprised to find out in 2014 that her picture was not only on display in an Orlando Chipotle, but in additional Chipotles across California. What's worse? Her likeness was altered, which apparently shed "false light upon her character associated with consuming alcoholic beverages." The image was said to have had bottles added to it, and also remixed her hairstyle. Now, that's not right. If someone takes your photo for a company and you're like, "Nah, I'm good on not having my likeness be a part of your corporation," that should be enough. You can't Photoshop my features then think everything is cool. The problem is, even if you were used in advertisements and, as you say, helped the company turn a profit, that's not necessarily easy to prove in court unless you have access to Chipotle's earnings statements based on each of the advertisements they distributed during whatever period you assume it's live. Essentially, while I ride for Caldwell sticking it to the man, she might be wylin' if she thinks she'll get anywhere near $2.2 billion. Judge Judy wouldn't even let her cook. Good luck to you, though.

With the multitude of reasons why people try to sue (read: get over on) larger corporations, this woman's lawsuit against Chipotle isn't insane; it's the price that's got people going nuts.

A report from Fortune says a California woman by the name of Leah Caldwell is actually suing Chipotle, the national chain serving people with the finest in Mexican grill, for $2.2 billion. Yes, that's a "b."

That's reportedly what the company would make in profit over a nine-year period. Why? Because they used a photograph of her without her consent.

The lawsuit states that a photographer took Caldwell's picture in 2006 at a Chipotle restaurant in Denver, and she refused to sign a release form. It looks like she figured that was enough to keep her photo out of whatever Chipotle ads are out there, but she was surprised to find out in 2014 that her picture was not only on display in an Orlando Chipotle, but in additional Chipotles across California.

What's worse? Her likeness was altered, which apparently shed "false light upon her character associated with consuming alcoholic beverages." The image was said to have had bottles added to it, and also remixed her hairstyle.

Now, that's not right. If someone takes your photo for a company and you're like, "Nah, I'm good on not having my likeness be a part of your corporation," that should be enough. You can't Photoshop my features then think everything is cool.

The problem is, even if you were used in advertisements and, as you say, helped the company turn a profit, that's not necessarily easy to prove in court unless you have access to Chipotle's earnings statements based on each of the advertisements they distributed during whatever period you assume it's live.

Essentially, while I ride for Caldwell sticking it to the man, she might be wylin' if she thinks she'll get anywhere near $2.2 billion. Judge Judy wouldn't even let her cook. Good luck to you, though.