Fraudster who sold 'vulnerable' friend's £200,000 home jailed for six years
Fraudster who sold 'vulnerable' friend's £200,000 home jailed for six years
With friends like these… A fraudster who took control of her "vulnerable" friend's finances before selling her £200,000 home from under her, has been jailed for six years. Ravina Rattan has shown “no remorse for her crimes”, police said after she was found guilty of two counts of fraud by abuse of position and one count of money laundering at St Albans Crown Court. The “long-term abuse of her position of trust” began in January 2007 when the “vulnerable”, elderly woman who cannot speak English asked her for help after the death of her husband, Scotland Yard said. The victim was living in a mortgage-free, four-bedroom house in Greenford, West London with her daughter and young granddaughter when Rattan agreed to look after all of her financial affairs, taking possession of her identity documents and banking information, including chequebooks and bank cards in the process. Read more Russian man arrested under anti-terror law after talking about yoga Moody's pays out $864m over risky ratings prior to global downturn Donald Trump suggests US sanctions against Russia could be dropped Theresa May eyes New Zealand for post-Brexit trade deal Four months later a mortgage application was accepted for a loan secured against the victim's property. A mortgage advance of £198,891.25 was then paid into a Barclays Bank Account that was set up in the victim's name but controlled by Rattan. An investigation by London’s Metropolitan police later established that Rattan had used copies of the victim's signature to complete the application. No direct debit was set up to pay the mortgage and, although intermittent cheque payments were made, the account fell into arrears and repossession proceedings were started on the home in 2012. Later that year, the victim came home from work to find the house had been boarded up. Rattan told her there was a gas leak and said the family could not enter the property, refusing to allow them in to get their belongings. As time went by she provided them with a number of excuses as to why they could not return. During this period, through the falsification of documents, Rattan sold the property and the proceeds were deposited in a bank account opened in the name of the victim. However, Rattan continued to control the account. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    7 February 2017   A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London   Reuters     7 February 2017   Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice   Getty Images     2 February 2017   The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being  lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete   PA wire     1 February 2017   The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns   PA wire     31 January 2017   Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA     31 January 2017   Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     31 January 2017   Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     30 January 2017   Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images     30 January 2017   Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters  After the victim contacted police in December 2014, officers searching Rattan’s office found a large amount of paperwork relating to the victim, including her bank cards and passports. They also found a number of blank cheques containing the victim's signature and correspondence regarding the sale of the house. "This was a sustained and malicious abuse of trust of a vulnerable woman that resulted in the loss of a family home,” Detective Constable Simon Allen, said after the verdict. "Rattan has shown no remorse for her crimes and has continued to deny any knowledge of the fraud despite the overwhelming evidence against her gathered by investigating officers. "The sentence handed down by the court today reflects the severity of Rattan's crimes and the devastating result of her fraudulent behaviour." More about: Ravina Rattan fraud jail

With friends like these… A fraudster who took control of her "vulnerable" friend's finances before selling her £200,000 home from under her, has been jailed for six years.

Ravina Rattan has shown “no remorse for her crimes”, police said after she was found guilty of two counts of fraud by abuse of position and one count of money laundering at St Albans Crown Court.

The “long-term abuse of her position of trust” began in January 2007 when the “vulnerable”, elderly woman who cannot speak English asked her for help after the death of her husband, Scotland Yard said.

The victim was living in a mortgage-free, four-bedroom house in Greenford, West London with her daughter and young granddaughter when Rattan agreed to look after all of her financial affairs, taking possession of her identity documents and banking information, including chequebooks and bank cards in the process.

Four months later a mortgage application was accepted for a loan secured against the victim's property. A mortgage advance of £198,891.25 was then paid into a Barclays Bank Account that was set up in the victim's name but controlled by Rattan.

An investigation by London’s Metropolitan police later established that Rattan had used copies of the victim's signature to complete the application.

No direct debit was set up to pay the mortgage and, although intermittent cheque payments were made, the account fell into arrears and repossession proceedings were started on the home in 2012.

Later that year, the victim came home from work to find the house had been boarded up. Rattan told her there was a gas leak and said the family could not enter the property, refusing to allow them in to get their belongings.

As time went by she provided them with a number of excuses as to why they could not return.

During this period, through the falsification of documents, Rattan sold the property and the proceeds were deposited in a bank account opened in the name of the victim. However, Rattan continued to control the account.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 7 February 2017 A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London Reuters

2/14 7 February 2017 Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice Getty Images

3/14 2 February 2017 The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete PA wire

4/14 1 February 2017 The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns PA wire

5/14 31 January 2017 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

6/14 31 January 2017 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

7/14 31 January 2017 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

8/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

9/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

10/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

12/14 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/14 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

14/14 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

After the victim contacted police in December 2014, officers searching Rattan’s office found a large amount of paperwork relating to the victim, including her bank cards and passports.

They also found a number of blank cheques containing the victim's signature and correspondence regarding the sale of the house.

"This was a sustained and malicious abuse of trust of a vulnerable woman that resulted in the loss of a family home,” Detective Constable Simon Allen, said after the verdict.

"Rattan has shown no remorse for her crimes and has continued to deny any knowledge of the fraud despite the overwhelming evidence against her gathered by investigating officers.

"The sentence handed down by the court today reflects the severity of Rattan's crimes and the devastating result of her fraudulent behaviour."