Sharks never sleep: There are scarier things at the beach than shark attacks



Sharks never sleep: There are scarier things at the beach than shark attacks

Posted

The recent string of shark sightings in Australia has closed beaches and seen experts scramble for answers, writes Brendan McAloon. And yet there are no simple solutions to this complex clash of man versus wild.

I went surfing this morning. My local beach is normally a quiet, unremarkable stretch of sand between Point Roadknight and Urquhart Bluff on Victoria's Surf Coast, but is now suddenly at the epicentre of the most recent rush of shark sightings and beach closures.

I was in the car park with the dawn patrol — a handful of hardcore devotees, hardwired by habit. The swell was small and clean, fanned by a gentle offshore wind, with the occasional lefthander reeling towards the shore.

But there was no rush for the wetsuits and wax. Instead, there was nervous chatter about bronze whalers and baitfish.

The local builder said he'd spotted a dorsal fin slicing through the shore break while walking his dog at nearby Fairhaven Beach, which has been closed five times since Christmas, spooking the summer holidaymakers.

Duunnn dunnn! Duuuunnnn duun! Duuunnnnnnnn dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dunnnnnnnnnnn dunnnn...

It is little wonder we are spooked by sharks. Psychologists and shark experts almost universally agree that sensationalist media reports, negative portrayals in films like Jaws and The Shallows, and a general lack of understanding about the species have created an irrational and unjustified fear of sharks.

The tired cliche is that you are more likely to be killed by a bee sting, falling coconut, lightning strike or vending machine.

But the primal fear of being eaten alive is also an evolutionary hangover of our ancestors having been prey.

In the developed world, encounters with wild predators are incredibly rare. The one notable exception is in the ocean. During the past decade, an average of six people each year have been killed by sharks.

Shark attacks in Australia are increasing

In Australia, the number of people that get bitten by sharks has increased dramatically during the past 20 years, from an average of 6.5 to 15 unprovoked attacks a year.

It peaked in 2015, with 22 unprovoked shark attacks recorded by the Australian Shark Attack File, accounting for more than 22 per cent of the worldwide total.

More than 85 per cent of Australians live within 50 kilometres of the coast and, thanks to the generally warm temperate climate, the beach is a place for leisure and pleasure.

It is also an iconic, almost mythical space, integral to Australia's national identity and its famously laid-back, egalitarian lifestyle. The beach is seen by many as the great leveller of class, gender and race. The beach does not discriminate. Neither does its marine life.

Shark attacks are seemingly random, unpredictable events that occur in clusters.

There were seven fatalities in the space of three years (2010-13) in Western Australia, while almost 10 per cent of the world's total shark attacks in 2015 happened in the Ballina Shire, which has a population of just over 41,000 (the local newspaper calculated that you were 153,846.154 times more likely to be bitten by a shark if you lived in Ballina than anywhere else on the planet).

But shark research is surprisingly skinny

Generally speaking, there is a scientific answer to everything. The exceptions, it would seem, include ghosts, zombies and killer sharks.

Shark research is surprisingly skinny, particularly research on large oceanic species like the great white, which is big (six metres and 2,000 kilograms), dangerous, unpredictable and widely spaced across a vast ocean.

And while there are lots of correlating factors that might explain clusters of shark attacks, theories extend beyond the usual 'warmer water, more rainfall, more baitfish, more sharks' hypothesis, to the role of climate change, El Nino, marine parks, whaling bans and the protection of the great white, which has been a protected species in Australian waters since 1999.

Some anecdotal evidence suggests the number of juvenile great whites is increasing; the CSIRO is currently researching great white shark numbers (estimated to be between 750 and 1,200 adult great whites on the eastern seaboard), but there are no reliable metrics with which to compare changes in population.

According to John West, coordinator of the Australian Shark Attack File and manager of Life Sciences Operation at Taronga Zoo, the most relevant change in population statistics is that of humans, not sharks.

Statistically speaking, when linked to human population growth, the rate of shark attacks hasn't increased, even though the number of attacks is rising.

Learn-to-surf schools have boomed in Australia during the past two decades: the number of accredited surf schools has risen from about 15 in the late 1990s to more than 100 in 2015.

The country's peak surfing organisation, Surfing Australia, estimates there are now more than 3 million surfers in Australia, and John West says the sharp increase in the number of surfers during the past 25 years is largely responsible for the rising number of overall attacks.

"Surfing attacks increased by 50 per cent in the decade between 1995 and 2004 from the previous decade's figures," West explains. "In 2005 to 2015, there was a further 150 per cent increase."

Scarier than shark attacks

However, when analysing statistics, shark attacks are not the scariest numbers.

According to Australia's National Drowning Report, there has been an average of 292 drownings per year in the past decade; 17 people have drowned in New South Wales since Christmas.

"If anyone is to worry about anything when in the water, it should be drowning rather than a shark attack," says West.

While shark mitigation is an incredibly complex issue with no clear solution, tackling drowning seems so much simpler.

Justin Scarr, Chief Operating Officer of the Royal Life Saving Society, said that he was "deeply concerned" about the number of school children who simply hadn't been taught and consequently could not swim.

"This puts them at grave risk of drowning later in life," Scarr said.

So I went surfing this morning. I would be lying if I said that sharks weren't swimming somewhere in the back of my mind.

But I was also thinking about my mum, who spent almost 30 years as a VicSwim learn-to-swim teacher.

Brendan McAloon is a reformed journalist and television producer, and the author of new book Sharks Never Sleep. He established Rip Curl's Search TV series, co-produced Mick Fanning's award-winning biopic surf film Mick, Myself & Eugene, and was a television producer for professional surfing's World Championship Tour. He lives on Victoria's west coast with his wife and two children.

Topics: animal-attacks, shark, animals, oceans-and-reefs, australia