NFL divisional round: Houston Texans 16-34 New England Patriots – as it happened!

Texans 16-34 Patriots, Final New England kneel one more time, and that will do it. That’s six straight AFC Championship games for New England as they get set for either KC or Pittsburgh next Sunday. When will this ever end? Houston? They did a great job, we’re grateful for a semi-competitive game - they had their chances, this could have been more, but they just didn’t have enough and the kid at QB has some issues. That’s all for now - join us tomorrow for much, much more live NFL football. Until then, good morning, good afternoon and good night.      New England take a knee. That’s one...      Well, at one time, you’ve got it, and then you lose it, and it’s gone forever. -Sick Boy      INTERCEPTION! Texans 16-34 Patriots, 2:25 4th quarter Osweiler back to pass - and he delivers, an interception, this time to Duron Harmon, and that’s the kids third INT this half! I expect Mr Philip to be emailing in again any second now.      Fiedorowicz ( I spelled that without looking, is it right?) - he has a first down catch as we play out the string in gar-bage time. It’s a 17-yard gain on the near sideline. Houston are actually driving here but this won’t help. Holding, no74 offense (Chris Clark), still first down. That pushes Houston to the 41 where it’s 1st & 20... Grimes gets much of that down to the 26, 2nd & 5.      Michael Philip is back: “Frock Osweiller, money well spent...” Surely that’s not a typo...      FIELD GOAL! Texans 16-34 Patriots, 6:37 4th quarter It’s good, and the Pats are covering that spread. If you’re scoring at home, the Pats did not call time, so they have all three and that’s actually irrelevant because this one is just about over.      Bennett is up and off the field under his own power - good news. Brady is back to pass again - no idea why, and is running, running, and holds on to it a little too long and gets punished for it, pushed out of bounds by Mercilus. Now Lewis fumbles again, but Joe Thuney pounces on the football and here comes New England trying to make it a three possession game with a 43-yard football. The Pats call time, their first.      So we’re getting into the kill the clock portion of our program. Run run run. Edelman, a reverse goes for 13 yards after a shorter four-yard run from Blount. Then Brady goes for Edelman downfield again, for some reason. Edleman nearly made an incredible sideline catch, but lost it right at the end as he bobbled it out of bounds. Now here is more razzle dazzle! What? This time it is an Amendola double reverse and there’s Brady throwing a block! What’s gotten into these guys? New England are inside the Texans 30 as that clock burns away. Bennett is down for New England - the TE is down after a leg injury. Stand by. Updated       Malcolm Brown just helped himself to Osweiler’s leg, whipping him down for the Pats third sack and a nine-yard loss. Hopkins then has a reception, about nine yards on third down - not enough. Houston punt and New England will start from their own 33.      So suddenly, New England are a pint or two from covering the spread, when not too long ago, they looked like possible victims in a historic upset. Funny how that works, isn’t it? So now Houston has some major work to do, and they start with Miller on the ground for a yard.      TOUCHDOWN! Texans 16-31 Patriots, 12:16 4th quarter Lewis pushes into the endzone, and now he’s got a rushing TD, in addition to a TD catch, TD kickoff return, and made a key turnover as well. That’s some line.      INTERCEPTION! Texans 16-24 Patriots, 12:44 4th quarter Osweiler, all kinds of time, he fires looking for Hopkins, deflection, INTO THE HANDS OF RYAN! He’s up and running, and takes the ball to the Texans siz-yard line. It’s 1st & goal for New England, who will move into the drivers seat if they can punch it in!      It’s 3rd & 7 for Tom Brady and the Pats. From the shotgun, Brady has time and Edelman open, but he can’t make the catch! A rare misfire from Brady and that forces a punt. Fuller calls for a fair catch with no one around him, for whatever reason, and they start from the 10, looking for eight on this drive to somehow tie this game up.      FIELD GOAL! Texans 16-24 Patriots, 14:51 4th quarter We’re into the final frame as we try to figure out who will face the Chiefs or Steelers in the AFC Championship game next Sunday. Osweiler goes deep and that’s nowhere near anyone - so here is Novak for a 46-yard attempt that is good! So the Texans turn a turnover into three points - not enough. They really have had their opportunities in this game, which has been way WAY more than we ever could have asked for as neutrals.      INTERCEPTION! Texans 13-24 Patriots, end of 3rd quarter New life for the Texans as their D forces a second pick from Tom Brady - doubling his interceptions this season. Hal made the play following yet another deflection! Houston must turn this into seven. When we return, it’s 3rd & 4 on the Pats 28      Osweiler airs it out, way down field, over the middle, he throws a strike, but it’s through the hands of Fuller! Oh man! Oh my! That is a brutal play for Houston: this should be a four-point game. Instead, New England receive a punt at the 10 after a fair catch. That is the moment...or that was the moment.      So, the rule is an incomplete pass, not a fumble, and there is no illegal substitution. So it’s 3rd & 8...      Illegal hands to the face by Valentine costs New England five yards, pushing Houston across midfield. Miller, pushes a head for a few yards. Now, we have play-action - Osweiler hit as he throws, it’s McClellin. Now Patrick Chung is running towards the endzone for New England - what is going on? As it turns out, the Pats illegally substituted. But now they’re saying New England has it because the play was ruled a fumble. I have no idea what’s going on. This is a good time for a commercial, and CBS here in the US obliges. Please stand by.      OK, here we go - five yards for a first down...Osweiler ducks pressure and takes off! He has room to roam, and when he finally gets out of bounds on the near sideline, he has 18 yards up to their 40!      Osweiler has time, and finds Miller streaking underneath for five yards. It’s 3rd & 5: The play clock is down to one second so the Houston QB calls for time and the Texans will talk it over.      Fiedorowicz drops a sure first down over the middle on first down, which just can not happen here. Then Osweiler comes back strong! A bullet to Hopkins who breaks free underneath for a first down and a gain of about 18!      It’s 2nd & 20 at the Houston 40 after offensive pass interference. He has to throw it away, setting up a 3rd down - Amendola can’t make the catch over the middle so New England have to punt, and it’s a good one! Matthew Slater makes the catch on the two! That’s where Houston’s offense will have to start, a tremendous play by New England’s special teams after a big stop by Houston’s D.      On 2nd & 10, Brady has time, runs to his right, but runs out of real estate and throws it away. So here is another third down: Brady in the gun, pumps, fires, and there’s that man again - it’s Edelman, a run towards the flag and a pick up of 26. Edelman, the all-time Pats leader in playoff receiving yards, has 134 tonight. Now Brady is taken down by Clowney after throwing the football and he’s not happy. He may have a case. Ball on the Texans 30.      INTERCEPTION! Texans 13-24 Patriots, 7:19 3rd quarter It’s 3rd & 4 - an important down coming up here. Osweiler, under center, then shifts to the shotgun, back to pass, throws...into the hands of McCourty (he plays for New England) and the Pats D have their first turnover of the game, in a huge spot for the home team. Osweiler really could not do that. Nerves are settling in New England. They have the ball at their own 44, with their offense drooling for more.      So now what? Do the Texans throw all of their first-half performance away in a violent flame-out, or do they find a way to settle down and move the ball on offense? Osweiler, off to a good start: play-action, complete to Hopkins in the middle for 15 yards.      TOUCHDOWN! Texans 13-24 Patriots, 9:09 3rd quarter Big 3rd & 3 here for the Texans defense. Crowd on their feet with Brady in the shotgun. He has time, throws over the shoulder of White and into his hands for the touchdown in the far side of the endzone! It’s a 90-yard drive that has a business as usual look to it as New England unlock Houston’s defense, putting pressure on Osweiler and the Texans offense. Updated       After a holding call, Brady, play-action, finds Hogan on the near sideline - that’s 21 more yards, and suddenly, New England can move the ball. Was it something Belichick said? Now Lewis is on the ground, running left...no, right, it’s enough for a first down as the Pats quickly move to the Houston 30.      Brady is destroyed, but gets it away to Edleman who makes another big catch downfield, a huge gain on the near sideline! That’s 26 yards. They should run that play every down. Now Edleman has it again after another Brady throw, this time it’s 14 yards, and suddenly New England are at midfield!      The Patriots' 2nd Half Keys To The Game: Stop this sh*t. @LengelDavid I imagine Hunter speaks for most of those folks in states north and east of New York.      From the shotgun, Osweiler is once again hit as he throws,this time it’s deflected and...incomplete. Van Noy set it up with the penetration and the Texans punt. So New England’s defense has some answers of their own - the Pats will start at their own 10 after a fair catch by Edelman.      Flowers and Hightower hit Osweiler as he throws on first down. Then Miller has room again, this time for about seven, and it’s 3rd and 3 at the Pats 40.      Here’s Miller up the middle, shakes, bakes, moves left and has room! That’s a 17 yard gain! It’s their biggest play of the night, say CBS TV here in the US.      Bouye nearly has an interception on the first play from scrimmage in the second half! He really should have had that! Blount, pushes ahead for two setting up a 3rd & 8 from the NE 27. Brady, under pressure from Cushing and Clowney, fires incomplete - so the Houston D once again hold up their end of the bargain. Houston start from their own 36 after a 55-yard punt.      And we're back... How will it end?      OK, I’ve downed a Thai dinner and am back for what could be a historic upset. Actually, the Texans, who for my money are one of the most generic, boring franchises in North America have a chance to finally make a name for themselves, and in the most dramatic of fashion. But nevermid that for a moment, here’s a few stats. Osweiler is 13/20 for 83 yards, which is fine because he has a TD and no interceptions. Brady is 8/13 with 145 yards, most of which came on just two plays. Miller has been decent on the ground with 42 yards, while New England have combined for just 17 yards. The big stat is turnovers: Houston have taken two to NE’s none.      Texans 13-17 Patriots, halftime Well, we all expected a dud and what we’ve seen is a Houston defense stand up to a dynasty, away from home in less than ideal conditions. It’s as impressive as it gets and sets the stage for an unlikely second half of gritty playoff football!      FIELD GOAL! Texans 13-17 Patriots, 0:07 2nd quarter Gostkowski’s chip shot is good from 19, and New England settle for three. Take away the special teams TD and New England are down. Actually, if Houston take their chances this half, the Texans are up big.      Blount’s two efforts are both denied - Mercilus is there again! A tremendous stand before the end of the half, represents what they’ve been able to do this half to a tee! WOW!      Brady, back to pass, settles in, has a cup of tea, cooks a steak, then decides to run to about the one. Now Brady fires complete to Develin who pushes towards the endzone but is denied by Dent and Pleasant - tremendous play by Houston’s defense. Timeout New England.      Under center is Brady, he has Hogan who is streaking towards the far sideline - it’s a first down to the Texans two!      Lewis, outside to the far sideline, down to the 10, setting up a 3rd & 2.      WARNING! Texans 13-14 Patriots, 2:00 2nd quarter Time ticks away in the half.. ...first down, Brady is hit as he throws! Houston’s defense is establishing themselves in a major way and we all know Brady does NOT like to get hit (does anyone). But now Brady bounces back, he has time and is firing deep for Edelman, who turns around, totally pushes off, and makes the catch! That’s a much-needed (illegal) 48-yard gain, pushing New England to the Houston 18. Lewis then runs for two yards as we hit the two-minute warning. Updated       Ninkovich steps up and nearly picks off the Houston QB! The Texans have to punt - and on the kick there’s a penalty for an illegal block in the back, it’s Matthew Slater who is guilty. So New England and their rusty offense start at their own 33.      The Texans are looking for a little bit of room and Miller pushes ahead up the middle for four yards. Then Osweiler under center, and it’s Miller again, this time he gets just two, setting up a 3rd & 3.      It’s 3rd & 6. Brady, in the shotgun - Mercilus breaks with a spin and Brady has nowhere to go except the turf! The Pats turn down the 55-yard field goal and elect to back up Houston’s offense - the pooch punt puts the Texans on the five, where they will begin.      Brady has a pass broken up by Andre Hal, intended for Lewis on first down. Now he’s in the shotgun and looking for Lewis again, this time down the near sideline - but he is double teamed and Mercilus, a linebacker, is downfield to break it up! On 3rd & 10 now - Brady chucks it up - it’s short of the receiver, but Hogan comes back and gets under it and makes the catch! That’s a huge play on a blitz and a gain of 45 yards down to the Houston 37!      Osweiler fires incomplete over the middle - it was short, heading towards Hopkins and Ryan almost scooped it off the ground. The Pats weathered defense holds, and after the punt, New England will start at the 17.      Fake hand off to Miller, who shakes out of the backfield and is open - Osweiler misfires badly on first down. Now Miller pushes ahead for five, it sets up a big 3rd & 5.      Bennett is streaking across the middle towards the near sideline for a short reception - it’s 3rd & 5 and BRADY IS SACKED! Total turn of events in Foxborough! Cushing and Mercilus sandwich Brady and the Pats have to punt as the crowd sit in stunned silence. Solid return from Fuller and the Texans start at the New England 49! New England have just nine plays from scrimmage, and the time of possession battle is 16:02 to 5:15. Wild!      Lewis is chased out of bounds on the kickoff and here comes Tom Brady for what will be just his seventh snap in the ballgame, a ridiculous stat. New England start on the 17. Topics  NFL   New England Patriots   Houston Texans   US sports

Zika virus raised the risk of birth defects twentyfold fold among infected U.S. women, federal researchers said Thursday.

It's just a rough estimate, nowhere near to being precise, and it's taken from just a handful of states. But such a giant spike is notable, and it shows the need to keep tabs on pregnancies, the team at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.

Joao Guilherme, who has microcephaly and turned 1 on Oct. 28, gets physiotherapy treatment at the Pepita Duran clinic in Recife, Brazil. Mario Tama / Getty Images

Zika is known to cause a range of birth defects if a woman is infected while pregnant. The first to be noticed was microcephaly — an abnormally small head caused when the brain fails to develop completely.

But now doctors have seen other profound defects, such as collapsed skulls and other deformities, as well as milder problems, such as eye defects. Some are so severe that they cause miscarriages.

Dr. Janet Cragan of the CDC's birth defect division and colleagues analyzed birth defect data from 2013 and 2014 in Massachusetts, North Carolina and Georgia, which have birth defect surveillance programs.

Related: Zika-Affected Babies Can Cry 24 Hours a Day

They found a rate of 2.86 birth defects per 1,000 births.

Then they looked at Zika birth defect registries that were started after Zika began arriving in the United States, carried or transmitted by travelers from Zika-affected regions. In the same three states, they found 26 infants and fetuses with Zika-connected birth defects born to 442 Zika-infected pregnant women from January through September 2016.

That works out to a rate of 58 birth defects per 1,000 births, they report in the CDC's weekly report on death and disease.

Related: Questions About Pregnancy and Zika

"This proportion (58.8 per 1,000) is approximately 20 times higher than the prevalence (2.86 per 1,000) from the three population-based birth defects surveillance programs during the pre-Zika years," they wrote.

And of the 26 Zika-affected babies they found, 22 of them had a brain defects of some sort. "This proportion (49.8 per 1,000) is approximately 33 times higher than the prevalence (1.5 per 1,000) among pregnancies in the pre-Zika years," they wrote.

They admit it's not a terribly exact comparison, but it gives a good ballpark estimate of just how dangerous Zika is. One study last year found that Zika caused damage in 6 percent of all babies born to women infected with Zika in the United States and 11 percent of those who were infected early in pregnancy.

Zika was an almost unknown virus before it arrived in Brazil and started causing birth defects in 2015. Even when doctors there started sounding the alarm, public health experts were unsure whether the rate of microcephaly had really gone up compared to what might normally be expected.

The latest studies show that Zika's arrival at least doubled the birth defect rate across all of Brazil — even though only small areas were affected seriously by the mosquito-borne virus.

Studies also have shown that Zika raised the rate of Guillain-Barré syndrome, a temporary paralysis caused by infections. There was a similar increase in rarer nervous system conditions, including encephalitis, myelitis and encephalomyelitis, the team found. These are inflammations of the brain and the spinal cord that can be deadly.

The new study shows that having good data can tell doctors right away if something unusual is going on.

Related: Miami Protesters Fear Pesticides Are Worse Than Zika

The CDC and the World Health Organization say pregnant women should not travel to areas with Zika.

"If a pregnant woman must travel to or lives in an area with Zika, she should talk with her healthcare provider and strictly follow steps to prevent mosquito bites and sexual transmission of Zika virus," the CDC said. "Pregnant women with possible exposure to Zika virus should be tested for Zika infection even if they do not have symptoms."

Zika is mostly carried by travelers to the United States, but the virus has been spread in Florida by local mosquitoes, and there have been home-grown cases in south Texas, as well.

Florida reported three new local cases Thursday, although two of the patients appeared to have been infected last year.

Travelers infected with Zika can infect local mosquitoes when they get home if they are bitten. Only Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are known to have spread Zika, but Texas, Florida and other warm states have populations of that species.

CDC's pregnancy registry shows more than 1,100 pregnant women infected with Zika in U.S. states and another 3,200 in U.S. territories, mostly Puerto Rico.