Toddlers Dress Up in Celeb Golden Globe Looks, and It’s Adorable
Toddlers Dress Up in Celeb Golden Globe Looks, and It’s Adorable
The next best thing to seeing stars in their gorgeous gowns at the 2017 Golden Globes Awards ? Adorable toddlers wearing spot-on replicas of the red carpet dresses and hairstyles. Cue the oohs and aahs. Toddlewood — a combination of “toddler” and “Hollywood” — is the company turning everyday kids into celebrity lookalikes. Launched in 2008, it is the brainchild of Tricia Messeroux , a New York photographer and mom who is passionate about fashion and kids. To pull off these detailed child-size replicas of celebrity looks, Messeroux employs a roster of costume designers, hair and makeup artists, and a production crew, and then shares the eye-catching creations on Instagram. Toddlewood nailed Blake Lively’s custom-made Atelier Versace dress and slicked-back hair: The team did a gorgeous version of Janelle Monáe’s Armani Privé black and white gown , as well as her pearl-pinned updo: They also did a phenomenal job of recreating Olivia Culpo’s stunningly detailed Zuhair Murad floral dress and sleek bun: Toddlewood even captured “Fences” star Viola Davis ‘s bright yellow Michael Kors gown, which lit up the red carpet:

The next best thing to seeing stars in their gorgeous gowns at the 2017 Golden Globes Awards? Adorable toddlers wearing spot-on replicas of the red carpet dresses and hairstyles. Cue the oohs and aahs.

Toddlewood — a combination of “toddler” and “Hollywood” — is the company turning everyday kids into celebrity lookalikes. Launched in 2008, it is the brainchild of Tricia Messeroux, a New York photographer and mom who is passionate about fashion and kids.

To pull off these detailed child-size replicas of celebrity looks, Messeroux employs a roster of costume designers, hair and makeup artists, and a production crew, and then shares the eye-catching creations on Instagram.

Toddlewood nailed Blake Lively’s custom-made Atelier Versace dress and slicked-back hair:





The team did a gorgeous version of Janelle Monáe’s Armani Privé black and white gown, as well as her pearl-pinned updo:





They also did a phenomenal job of recreating Olivia Culpo’s stunningly detailed Zuhair Murad floral dress and sleek bun:





Toddlewood even captured “Fences” star Viola Davis‘s bright yellow Michael Kors gown, which lit up the red carpet:





Related: The Most Beautiful Photos You’ll See From the 2017 Golden Globes

Related: 2017 Golden Globes Best and Worst Dressed: Yahoo’s Choice!

Related: This Over-the-Top Trend Was Everywhere at the Golden Globes

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.