Alec Baldwin's Trump May Show Up in 'Other Venues' Outside of SNL, He Says
Alec Baldwin's Trump May Show Up in 'Other Venues' Outside of SNL, He Says
Alec Baldwin is taking his braggadocio on the road. The alum and host says that his Donald Trump impression, heretofore seen only on , may show up in “other venues” in the future. In an interview with ABC News , Baldwin says he’ll continue to appear on NBC’s weekly sketch-comedy series “as much as I can” while looking into other ways he can lampoon the president-elect in a public setting. Or, as he puts it: “There’s discussions about other venues we might pursue to further express our gratitude and admiration for the Trump administration.” Baldwin also jokes that PEOTUS should get a writing credit for some sketches, given how closely they mine his real-life speech and tweets and how easy it is to craft them into sketches. “We’re just gonna sit back and just let the good times roll,” Baldwin adds. TVLine has reached out to for comment.   Related stories Rogue One's Felicity Jones Enlists Her Star Wars Pals for Flashy SNL Promo Saturday Night Live: Aziz Ansari to Host Saturday Night Live: The 10 Best Sketches of Season 42 (So Far) : Follow us on , ,

Alec Baldwin is taking his braggadocio on the road.

The 30 Rock alum and Match Game host says that his Donald Trump impression, heretofore seen only on Saturday Night Live, may show up in “other venues” in the future.

In an interview with ABC News, Baldwin says he’ll continue to appear on NBC’s weekly sketch-comedy series “as much as I can” while looking into other ways he can lampoon the president-elect in a public setting.

Or, as he puts it: “There’s discussions about other venues we might pursue to further express our gratitude and admiration for the Trump administration.”

Baldwin also jokes that PEOTUS should get a writing credit for some SNL sketches, given how closely they mine his real-life speech and tweets and how easy it is to craft them into sketches.

“We’re just gonna sit back and just let the good times roll,” Baldwin adds.

TVLine has reached out to SNL for comment.

Would you like to see Baldwin perform as Trump outside of SNL? Where would you like him to show up? Log your suggestions in the comments!

Related stories

Rogue One's Felicity Jones Enlists Her Star Wars Pals for Flashy SNL Promo

Saturday Night Live: Aziz Ansari to Host

Saturday Night Live: The 10 Best Sketches of Season 42 (So Far)