A Goth Male Soprano Who Plumbs the Darkness
A Goth Male Soprano Who Plumbs the Darkness
What kind of music does M. Lamar play? It’s a simple question, but there’s no easy answer. Mr. Lamar’s lush and gloomy new show, “Funeral Doom Spiritual,” is an assemblage of old spirituals — but it isn’t your usual Sunday at church. And while he has over time trained his penetrating, whooping soprano register with the help of an opera coach, it isn’t like any opera you’ve ever heard, either. Mr. Lamar — who is the twin brother of Laverne Cox, the transgender “Orange Is the New Black” actress, and has appeared on that show as Ms. Cox’s pretransition self — inhabits a musical genre pretty much his own. He embodies, as he put it in an interview after a rehearsal this week, a “gothic-devil-worshiping-free-black-man-blues tradition.” He plays death soul. Or maybe blues metal. Or maybe apocalyptic lieder gospel. The hourlong “Funeral Doom Spiritual,” which has its New York premiere on Friday at National Sawdust in Brooklyn as part of the Prototype festival of contemporary music theater, is fueled by the anger and sadness of the Black Lives Matter movement. But instead of explicit protest, this otherworldly, goth-tinged projection into the distant future of our violent, racially and sexually charged present offers a space of melancholic, alluring, ultimately stirring reflection. Charting the stylized journey of a man mourning the loss of his love, “Funeral Doom Spiritual” follows him over the centuries as he hopes for a resurrection. The songs’ lyrics may describe movements from life to death, but the work tries to reverse that course, seeking a state that Mr. Lamar calls deathlessness. Advertisement “What the dead gotta say,” he sings at one point. “They say, ‘Don’t give up on me.’” While the focus of the piece is the gangly, black-draped Mr. Lamar, 32, sitting at the piano and singing, no singer-songwriter has ever sounded quite like this, unless you’ve imagined the love child of Tori Amos and Marilyn Manson. But he does have antecedents and contemporaries. His malleable, ferocious voice and his taste for despondent political contemplation may remind you of the transgender singer Anohni and the anti-AIDS siren Diamanda Galás. Trippy and unhurried, his compositions echo black avant-garde jazz masters like Cecil Taylor, Sun Ra, John Coltrane and Ornette Coleman. And two young artists, the soprano Julia Bullock and the composer Tyshawn Sorey, recently created an evening of Josephine Baker arrangements that slowed her songs into a desolation as glacial as that of “Funeral Doom Spiritual.” Advertisement The new piece has its roots in Mr. Lamar’s childhood in Alabama, where he was a boy soprano in his church choir. He grew up obsessed with the opera stars Leontyne Price, Jessye Norman and Marian Anderson, imitating their style. Mr. Lamar hung around with the musicians in school but initially followed a visual art path. He enrolled in graduate studies in sculpture at the Yale School of Art before dropping out when his dabbling in performance began turning more serious. He moved to San Francisco and then, in 2006, to New York to study with Ira Siff, a noted vocal coach who is still his teacher and was for years the chief diva of the lovingly campy drag opera troupe La Gran Scena . “We go a lot through diction and enunciation,” Mr. Lamar said. “Like, pronouncing things when you’re singing with a bel canto line is a thing. You want a beautiful sound but also to always be intelligible. And lots and lots of scales and technique so the voice has dexterity, has flexibility, has movement between registers.” He started off writing individual songs; they gradually gathered into larger pieces, mostly set in the historical past of slave ships and the Jim Crow era, but clearly resonant with our current moment. When his multimedia work “Negrogothic, a Manifesto, the Aesthetics of M. Lamar” was presented in 2014 at the Manhattan gallery Participant Inc., Ken Johnson wrote in The New York Times that he “plumbs the depths of all-American trauma with visionary verve.” “Funeral Doom Spiritual” arose as Mr. Lamar was singing one of his favorite spirituals: the gently defiant “My Lord, What a Morning,” a Marian Anderson calling card (and the title of her autobiography). Hearing the words as if for the first time, he asked himself, using notably sharper language: What the hell was this about? Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy He researched the lyrics online and found alternate versions. “I realized, oh, it’s this end-times thing, like when the Rapture comes,” he said. “And I thought, wouldn’t it be lovely if it had a setting, a piano setting, that reflected that content?” The idea of a doomsday spiritual dovetailed with what he called “this Negro zombie apocalypse idea I’d had,” an extension of concepts he’d been exploring in works like “Negro Antichrist” and a requiem, “Speculum Orum: Shackled to the Dead.” He found common ground in an image from the work of the legal scholar Anthony Paul Farley: “The idea that the dead are singing means that they’re not really dead,” Mr. Lamar said. “They’re asleep, which always leaves the possibility of waking.” Dark costumes with executioner-style hoods and projected film images of lynching trees and burning cities echo the boiling music. The visuals have continued to develop through a stretch of workshops (under names that included “Destruction” and “The Demon Rising”) and since the official premiere last spring at the University of Southern California. “In order for me to get to this stage of a piece,” Mr. Lamar said, “I have to play it a lot. Not just rehearse it, but actually perform it a lot.” However you classify it, the work exerts a strange, dark power. At the rehearsal, in a cramped studio a few blocks south of Penn Station, Mr. Lamar and a small ensemble read through “Oh, Graveyard,” a combination of trembling piano, rueful string quartet harmonies and spidery electronics. His wailing falsetto turned repeated phrases into a keening litany. Advertisement “There is this thing where you’re singing well when you feel sort of superhuman,” he said a few minutes later. “And it doesn’t happen in the low register. It happens up high. You’re in the stratosphere. You can transcend any muckiness of the world.” Funeral Doom Spiritual Friday and Saturday at National Sawdust in Brooklyn; nationalsawdust.org. A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2017, on Page C1 of the with the headline: This Goth Male Soprano Plumbs the Darkness.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

“What the dead gotta say,” he sings at one point. “They say, ‘Don’t give up on me.’”

While the focus of the piece is the gangly, black-draped Mr. Lamar, 32, sitting at the piano and singing, no singer-songwriter has ever sounded quite like this, unless you’ve imagined the love child of Tori Amos and Marilyn Manson.

But he does have antecedents and contemporaries. His malleable, ferocious voice and his taste for despondent political contemplation may remind you of the transgender singer Anohni and the anti-AIDS siren Diamanda Galás. Trippy and unhurried, his compositions echo black avant-garde jazz masters like Cecil Taylor, Sun Ra, John Coltrane and Ornette Coleman. And two young artists, the soprano Julia Bullock and the composer Tyshawn Sorey, recently created an evening of Josephine Baker arrangements that slowed her songs into a desolation as glacial as that of “Funeral Doom Spiritual.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new piece has its roots in Mr. Lamar’s childhood in Alabama, where he was a boy soprano in his church choir. He grew up obsessed with the opera stars Leontyne Price, Jessye Norman and Marian Anderson, imitating their style.

Mr. Lamar hung around with the musicians in school but initially followed a visual art path. He enrolled in graduate studies in sculpture at the Yale School of Art before dropping out when his dabbling in performance began turning more serious. He moved to San Francisco and then, in 2006, to New York to study with Ira Siff, a noted vocal coach who is still his teacher and was for years the chief diva of the lovingly campy drag opera troupe La Gran Scena.

Photo

“We go a lot through diction and enunciation,” Mr. Lamar said. “Like, pronouncing things when you’re singing with a bel canto line is a thing. You want a beautiful sound but also to always be intelligible. And lots and lots of scales and technique so the voice has dexterity, has flexibility, has movement between registers.”

He started off writing individual songs; they gradually gathered into larger pieces, mostly set in the historical past of slave ships and the Jim Crow era, but clearly resonant with our current moment. When his multimedia work “Negrogothic, a Manifesto, the Aesthetics of M. Lamar” was presented in 2014 at the Manhattan gallery Participant Inc., Ken Johnson wrote in The New York Times that he “plumbs the depths of all-American trauma with visionary verve.”

“Funeral Doom Spiritual” arose as Mr. Lamar was singing one of his favorite spirituals: the gently defiant “My Lord, What a Morning,” a Marian Anderson calling card (and the title of her autobiography). Hearing the words as if for the first time, he asked himself, using notably sharper language: What the hell was this about?

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

He researched the lyrics online and found alternate versions. “I realized, oh, it’s this end-times thing, like when the Rapture comes,” he said. “And I thought, wouldn’t it be lovely if it had a setting, a piano setting, that reflected that content?”

The idea of a doomsday spiritual dovetailed with what he called “this Negro zombie apocalypse idea I’d had,” an extension of concepts he’d been exploring in works like “Negro Antichrist” and a requiem, “Speculum Orum: Shackled to the Dead.” He found common ground in an image from the work of the legal scholar Anthony Paul Farley: “The idea that the dead are singing means that they’re not really dead,” Mr. Lamar said. “They’re asleep, which always leaves the possibility of waking.”

Dark costumes with executioner-style hoods and projected film images of lynching trees and burning cities echo the boiling music. The visuals have continued to develop through a stretch of workshops (under names that included “Destruction” and “The Demon Rising”) and since the official premiere last spring at the University of Southern California.

“In order for me to get to this stage of a piece,” Mr. Lamar said, “I have to play it a lot. Not just rehearse it, but actually perform it a lot.”

However you classify it, the work exerts a strange, dark power. At the rehearsal, in a cramped studio a few blocks south of Penn Station, Mr. Lamar and a small ensemble read through “Oh, Graveyard,” a combination of trembling piano, rueful string quartet harmonies and spidery electronics. His wailing falsetto turned repeated phrases into a keening litany.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“There is this thing where you’re singing well when you feel sort of superhuman,” he said a few minutes later. “And it doesn’t happen in the low register. It happens up high. You’re in the stratosphere. You can transcend any muckiness of the world.”