Former Miss Italy Gessica Notaro could lose sight after 'boyfriend throws acid in face'
Former Miss Italy contestant could lose her sight after acid attack


A former Miss Italy contestant may lose her sight and will have to have plastic surgery after acid was thrown in her face.

Gessica Notaro, who has worked as a TV presenter as well as a dolphin trainer, was allegedly attacked by her former boyfriend, who is accused of stalking her after she broke up with him.

Her ex, Jorge Edson Tavares, 29, denies carrying out the attack.

Doctors fear Gessica Notaro may lose sight after having acid thrown in her face

Her former boyfriend, Jorge Edson Tavares, has been accused of the attack

Newspaper La Stampa reports that the 28-year-old suffered deep burns to her face and eye, and is being treated in hospital in Cesena, where doctors fear she may lose her sight.

Miss Notaro also suffered injuries to her hip and leg in the horror attack outside her home.

It is alleged that Tavares, who has been arrested and remanded in custody, harassed Miss Notaro after she ended their relationship in August last year.

The bodyguard, originally from Cape Verde, was ordered last year not to approach her home.

She suffered deep burns to her face, as well as injuries to her hip and leg

As well as being a TV presenter and model, Miss Notaro has worked at an aquarium since 2014

The pair worked together at an aquarium in Rimini.

The victim was crowned Miss Romagna - the area where she lives, and was a finalist in 2007's Miss Italy competition.

Television work followed, and she worked as a singer, dancer and presenter.

A friend of the burns victim told La Repubblica newspaper: She was always smiling, always optimistic. Her mother is destroyed by this.”

In 2007 Miss Notaro was crowned Miss Romagna – the region where she lives – and then landed appearances on television as a showgirl.

She started working at the aquarium in Rimini in 2014.

Tavares is alleged to have harassed his former girlfriend after she ended their relationship last summer