ISIS fighters shoot EACH OTHER in chaos after UK missile and drone raids in Mosul
ISIS fighters shoot EACH OTHER following UK missile and drone raids


ISIS fighters shot each other in the chaos following a series of British airstrikes in the battle for Mosul.

Tornados targeted a lorry bomb and an armoured truck operated by the murderous organisation on Monday, the Ministry of Defence said.

The following day 'a Reaper eliminated a mortar team and a group of Daesh fighters while supporting Iraqi troops pushing into central Mosul,' the Ministry added.

The confusion caused by the attack led to ISIS forces firing on each other, the RAF reported.

In the fight for Mosul, Iraqi troops have recaptured areas on the city's east side but the western side of the city - smaller but more densely-populated - remains under ISIS control

Elsewhere today, a car bomb was destroyed in the east of Mosul.

A statement from the Ministry said: 'A pair of Tornados patrolled north of Mosul on Monday 9 January, assisting Iraqi forces as they cleared Daesh positions near Nineveh.

'The Iraqi troops came under fire from a Daesh-held building, as well as from a small group of extremists concealed under the canopy of another building.

'The Tornados were able to conduct a simultaneous attack on both targets, demolishing the first building with a Paveway IV guided bomb, and hitting those under the canopy with a Brimstone missile.

'A coalition aircraft had meanwhile identified a lorry-bomb nearby. Our Tornados destroyed the target with a second Brimstone.

'RAF aircraft then turned their attention to southern Mosul, where an armoured truck had been spotted. The truck was destroyed with a further Brimstone missile.

ISIS fighters shot each other in the chaos following a series of British airstrikes on Tuesday

'On Tuesday 10 January, an RAF Reaper supported Iraqi troops as they advanced further into central Mosul. The Reaper's crew identified a Daesh mortar team trying to conceal their activity in a wooded area, and struck them with a Hellfire missile.

'A second Hellfire accounted for a group of terrorists close to an Iraqi unit. In the confusion of the street fighting, the Reaper observed Daesh firing on each other, with at least one fighter killed by their own side.

'Reaper operations over Mosul continued on Wednesday 11 January. Our aircraft conducted one attack in northern Mosul against a group of Daesh caught in the open. It then kept watch on a building where over a dozen Daesh fighters were observed assembling.

'The surveillance effort enabled a successful strike by a coalition fast jet which demolished the building. The Reaper then moved to patrol over eastern Mosul, where another coalition aircraft had successfully disabled a car-bomb.

'A Hellfire missile from the Reaper destroyed the threat outright.'

Recapturing Mosul after more than two years of ISIS rule would probably spell the end of the Iraqi side of the group's self-declared caliphate, which spans Iraq and Syria

The campaign to drive ISIS from Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city and the extremists' last major urban stronghold, began on October 17.

More than a million people are believed to be in Mosul.

Iraqi forces have seized at least two-thirds of Mosul's eastern districts as well as its surrounding towns and villages, which have been under ISIS control for two years.

ISIS militants still rule over the city's water stations, and earlier this week they switched off the supply to 30 neighbourhoods.

With much of the eastern half of the city now under government control, most residents have stayed in their homes or moved in temporarily with relatives in other neighborhoods.

That has complicated the task of the military, which must fight among civilians in built-up areas against an enemy that has targeted non-combatants and hidden among them.

Iraqi forces have seized at least two-thirds of Mosul's eastern districts as well as its surrounding towns and villages, which have been under ISIS control for two years

Recapturing Mosul after more than two years of ISIS rule would probably spell the end of the Iraqi side of the group's self-declared caliphate, which spans Iraq and Syria.

But advances inside Mosul slowed in November and December as troops engaged in tough urban warfare with the jihadists, who are thought to number several thousand inside the city.

The militants have fought back with suicide car bombs and snipers hidden among the civilian population.

They have also blown up bridges crossing the Tigris to try to slow the Iraqi advance.