Donald Trump's inauguration: Who is (and isn't) performing?



Donald Trump's inauguration: Who is (and isn't) performing?

Updated

We're now a week out from the start of Donald Trump's presidency, and the question on everyone's lips (beyond what his leadership will mean for America) is who will be performing at his inauguration.

Eight years ago, Barack Obama was welcomed to the office by a stirring performance from gospel legend Aretha Franklin, while the second time round his inauguration featured stars Beyonce, Kelly Clarkson and James Taylor.

It's fair to say the ceremony won't be as star-studded in 2017.

Mr Trump's planning team says it's aiming for a "more poetic cadence" rather than "a circus-like celebration", while the President-elect himself has declared it will be about "the people", not celebrities.

These are some of the artists who have been given opportunities to perform along with how they responded.

Charlotte Church

The Welsh classical singer turned pop star says she was asked by the Trump team to perform at the inauguration.

But it would appear they didn't do their research, as she didn't mince words with her response:

Church has been outspoken with her liberal political views and wasn't shy about criticising the President-elect during his election campaign.

Elton John

Anthony Scaramucci, an economic adviser to the Trump campaign, had told the BBC that the legendary English singer would be at the inauguration.

But that was quickly shut down by his publicist: "Elton will not be performing at Trump's inaugural."

John had performed at fundraisers for Hillary Clinton during her bid for the presidency.

He had also objected when Rocket Man and Tiny Dancer were played without permission at Trump rallies, saying the use of his music "should not be seen as an endorsement of Donald Trump".

Jackie Evancho

Classical crossover singer Jackie Evancho rose to fame as a child performer on America's Got Talent six years ago.

It's been confirmed that she'll be singing the American national anthem at the inauguration.

Her Facebook also reveals that she's met the President-elect before, when she was only a child.

Rebecca Ferguson

She's not an especially big name in Australia, but Ferguson rose to prominence as Britain's X Factor runner-up in 2010.

She was asked to perform at the inauguration, but said she'd only do it if she was allowed to perform the song Strange Fruit, an anti-racism anthem previously sung by the likes of Nina Simone.

"I requested to sing Strange Fruit as I felt it was the only song that would not compromise my artistic integrity," she said in a statement.

"As somebody who has a lot of love for all people, but has a special empathy as well for African American people and the #blacklivesmatter movement, I wanted to create a moment of pause for people to reflect."

Her song choice was rejected, and so she won't be performing.

Moby

The musician responsible for some of the biggest electronic hits of the early 2000s actually agreed to perform at Mr Trump's inauguration... but it was never likely that the President-elect would accept his conditions.

"Yes @realdonaldtrump I will DJ at your inauguration if as payment you release your tax returns," he wrote on Facebook.

As well, Moby suggested he would play "an hour of Public Enemy tracks".

So, that's a no on Moby performing.

Radio City Rockettes

New York's precision dance company the Radio City Rockettes will be performing at the inauguration, but not everyone involved is happy about it.

One dancer told Marie Claire magazine: "We do a lot of events, but there have been no events that could cause trauma. Doing this would cause trauma for some people."

Management have told the dancers that they don't have to take part if they don't want to.



Mormon Tabernacle Choir

The decision by the choir to sing at the inauguration has caused some controversy within the Mormon Church.

Jan Chamberlin, a five-year member of the choir, resigned as a result, saying that it "will appear that [the] choir is endorsing tyranny and fascism by singing for this man".

Thousands have also signed a petition saying that Mr Trump does not reflect the values of the Mormon Church and that appearing at his inauguration will harm its worldwide image.

The Church responded by saying it has sung at such celebrations for five previous Republican presidents, and that performing is not about supporting a particular party, but about showing "support for freedom, civility and the peaceful transition of power".

3 Doors Down

The rock band rose to fame in 2000 with their chart-topping single Kryptonite.

(If I go crazy then will you still / Call me Superman... yep, remember that one?!)

They announced on Instagram they would be part of the "Make America Great Again! Welcome Celebration" event, along with other confirmed guests.

Jennifer Holliday

The Broadway star backed out of performing at the inaugural welcome concert after initially agreeing to take part.

She first said she took her cues from the Clintons and the Obamas when she was invited to sing at the event.

Holliday, who backed Hillary Clinton in the election, said she saw the Clintons' decision to attend the inauguration, and the Obamas' support for a peaceful transition of power, as a signal to "just get this done and then fight vigorously" over policy differences later.

"I didn't see it as singing for Trump; I saw it as singing for the people on the mall," she said.

Holliday — best known for her Tony-winning role in Dreamgirls on Broadway — faced an immediate and angry backlash.

She later announced she would no longer perform and apologised for what she called a lapse in judgement and causing heartbreak for her fans.

The Beach Boys

One of America's biggest ever bands The Beach Boys, was considering an invitation to perform but hadn't made a final decision, a spokesman for the band said in December.

According to Billboard, the band has performed in the past at events for Ronald Reagan, George HW Bush and Bill Clinton.

Andrea Bocelli

Rumours that popular classical singer was going to perform at the inauguration prompted a fan backlash on social media.

But according to the New York Times, it was Bocelli that approached the Trump inauguration team, and Mr Trump who declined the offer for him to perform.

ABC/Reuters

Topics: us-elections, world-politics, united-states

First posted