The life of Martin Luther King Jr: Telegraph time tunnel
The life of Martin Luther King Jr: Telegraph time tunnel
rom the historic events of Pearl Harbour to celebrating the life of boxing legend Muhammad Ali, this video series looks back at some of the major events and well-known figures of the past century and how they were covered by the Telegraph. In this episode of Time Tunnel, we take a look back at the life of civil rights activist and American Baptist minister Martin Luther King Jr, who even has a day dedicated to celebrating his lifetime achievements on the third week in January every year. In August 1963, he famously conducted his ‘I Have a Dream’ speech that stills lives on and is as powerful today as the first time he delivered it. Martin Luther King Jr was assassinated in 1968 whilst standing on a balcony of his motel room in Memphis, where he was due to lead a protest march for workers of the city. Last week’s episode explored the life of rock-and-roll legend Elvis Presley , while next week’s episode will celebrate the life and works of legendary boxer Muhammad Ali.

From the historic events of Pearl Harbour to celebrating the life of boxing legend Muhammad Ali, this video series looks back at some of the major events and well-known figures of the past century and how they were covered by the Telegraph.

In this episode of Time Tunnel, we take a look back at the life of civil rights activist and American Baptist minister Martin Luther King Jr, who even has a day dedicated to celebrating his lifetime achievements on the third week in January every year.

In August 1963, he famously conducted his ‘I Have a Dream’ speech that stills lives on and is as powerful today as the first time he delivered it.

Martin Luther King Jr was assassinated in 1968 whilst standing on a balcony of his motel room in Memphis, where he was due to lead a protest march for workers of the city.

Last week’s episode explored the life of rock-and-roll legend Elvis Presley, while next week’s episode will celebrate the life and works of legendary boxer Muhammad Ali.