Blake Lively’s Cherokee Heritage Questioned on Social Media
Blake Lively’s Cherokee Heritage Questioned on Social Media
L’Oréal’s TrueMatch campaign was one of the few commercials during Sunday’s broadcast of the Golden Globes that made people sit up and pay attention. The spot features a variety of people of all different skin tones and genders, who share their heritage and love for the brand’s 33 shade range of foundations. But some folks took issue with Blake Lively when she explained her ethnic background. “I’m English, Irish, German and Cherokee,” she said proudly. Online, people were simply not buying it, and took to social media to roast the talented actress. The whitest thing about Blake Lively is that she says she’s part Cherokee. — Brian Moylan (@BrianJMoylan) January 9, 2017 I JUST SAW THAT COMMERCIAL WHERE BLAKE LIVELY SAYS SHES CHEROKEE & I CANT STOP LAUGHING — Elyse (@bcdhirook) January 9, 2017  When Blake Lively describes herself as part-Cherokee pic.twitter.com/kfisvKsRnU — Carlie McGuire (@carliemcguire) January 9, 2017 man, how did cover girl make the right skin tone for blake lively’s part cherokee skin? — Isaac (@broxcolli) January 12, 2017  Some suggested that perhaps L’Oréal should have used a Cherokee person, as opposed to a white woman of questionable Cherokee heritage. Blake Lively just said she’s part “Cherokee” in a makeup commercial. Thank you @Loreal for incorporating our Native people in your ads! ???? — Φιλος. (@KellyLelly) January 9, 2017 But this isn’t the first time Lively has claimed to be of Native heritage. Her ethnic background flashes on the screen in a 2015 L’Oréal TrueMatch commercial : “English, Irish, German, Cherokee,” it reads. just saw @Loreal ad in which @blakelively said shes cherokee, googled it & found 2nd (even older!) ad w same claim—ths has persisted >1 yr?! https://t.co/TrfF1SWT6g — Kim Sarnoff (@ksarnoff) January 9, 2017  there’s a loreal ad where they refer to blake lively as being ‘english, irish, scottish and cherokee’ like ok — sw: havana nights (@anabelsbrother) May 19, 2016 Despite the outrage, some were totally cool with Blake Lively’s nod. Happy birthday to my favorite cherokee queen @blakelively ???????????????????????? pic.twitter.com/vOzv6l3ZTf — alessio (@shrader_00) August 25, 2016 This isn’t the first time someone’s Native background has caused controversy in a L’Oréal commercial. Beyoncé caught flack for including her Native American and French heritage a few years ago. We reached out to L’Oréal for comment and will update when they respond.

L’Oréal’s TrueMatch campaign was one of the few commercials during Sunday’s broadcast of the Golden Globes that made people sit up and pay attention. The spot features a variety of people of all different skin tones and genders, who share their heritage and love for the brand’s 33 shade range of foundations.

But some folks took issue with Blake Lively when she explained her ethnic background. “I’m English, Irish, German and Cherokee,” she said proudly. Online, people were simply not buying it, and took to social media to roast the talented actress.

The whitest thing about Blake Lively is that she says she’s part Cherokee. — Brian Moylan (@BrianJMoylan) January 9, 2017





I JUST SAW THAT COMMERCIAL WHERE BLAKE LIVELY SAYS SHES CHEROKEE & I CANT STOP LAUGHING — Elyse (@bcdhirook) January 9, 2017





When Blake Lively describes herself as part-Cherokee pic.twitter.com/kfisvKsRnU — Carlie McGuire (@carliemcguire) January 9, 2017





man, how did cover girl make the right skin tone for blake lively’s part cherokee skin? — Isaac (@broxcolli) January 12, 2017





Some suggested that perhaps L’Oréal should have used a Cherokee person, as opposed to a white woman of questionable Cherokee heritage.

Blake Lively just said she’s part “Cherokee” in a makeup commercial. Thank you @Loreal for incorporating our Native people in your ads! ???? — Φιλος. (@KellyLelly) January 9, 2017





But this isn’t the first time Lively has claimed to be of Native heritage. Her ethnic background flashes on the screen in a 2015 L’Oréal TrueMatch commercial: “English, Irish, German, Cherokee,” it reads.

just saw @Loreal ad in which @blakelively said shes cherokee, googled it & found 2nd (even older!) ad w same claim—ths has persisted >1 yr?! https://t.co/TrfF1SWT6g — Kim Sarnoff (@ksarnoff) January 9, 2017





there’s a loreal ad where they refer to blake lively as being ‘english, irish, scottish and cherokee’ like ok — sw: havana nights (@anabelsbrother) May 19, 2016





Despite the outrage, some were totally cool with Blake Lively’s nod.

Happy birthday to my favorite cherokee queen @blakelively ???????????????????????? pic.twitter.com/vOzv6l3ZTf — alessio (@shrader_00) August 25, 2016

This isn’t the first time someone’s Native background has caused controversy in a L’Oréal commercial. Beyoncé caught flack for including her Native American and French heritage a few years ago.

We reached out to L’Oréal for comment and will update when they respond.

Related: Blake Lively’s Golden Globes Dress Took 300 Hours to Complete

Michelle Obama and Blake Lively Wore the Same Dress in Completely Different Seasons

Blake Lively Shows Off Her Beautiful Babies in Cool Blue Dress

Follow us on Instagram , Facebook , and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.