3 Types Of Awful Co-Workers And How To Deal With Each
3 Types Of Awful Co-Workers And How To Deal With Each
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Melody Wilding       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock.) Every workplace is filled interesting personalities–including frustrating ones . If you feel like you're surrounded by difficult people at the office, take heart, because you're not alone. Studies have found that one in eight people leave a job due to problems with co-workers. Since we spend more time at work than at home (and considering quitting tomorrow isn't an option for most people) it's worthwhile to figure out ways to get along. Positive coping strategies may not only save your sanity, but they can also improve your well-being more than complaining ever will. In fact, learning to deal with difficult people can be a powerful way to develop your  leadership skills . When A Co-Worker Tries To Sabotage Your Career Gossip is compensatory strategy often used to cover low-self esteem or feelings of powerlessness . It’s likely your co-worker is communicating this way–albeit passively aggressively and manipulatively–to seek connection. Nonetheless, hanging around gossiping co-workers is energy draining. Plus, getting embroiled in rumor-mongering can damage your professional reputation.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Every workplace is filled interesting personalities–including frustrating ones.

If you feel like you're surrounded by difficult people at the office, take heart, because you're not alone. Studies have found that one in eight people leave a job due to problems with co-workers.

Since we spend more time at work than at home (and considering quitting tomorrow isn't an option for most people) it's worthwhile to figure out ways to get along.

Positive coping strategies may not only save your sanity, but they can also improve your well-being more than complaining ever will. In fact, learning to deal with difficult people can be a powerful way to develop your leadership skills.

Try these solutions to stop even the most annoying co-workers from driving you crazy.

Type 1: The co-worker who hits you up on Slack to chat about office politics.

Gossip is compensatory strategy often used to cover low-self esteem or feelings of powerlessness. It’s likely your co-worker is communicating this way–albeit passively aggressively and manipulatively–to seek connection.

Nonetheless, hanging around gossiping co-workers is energy draining. Plus, getting embroiled in rumor-mongering can damage your professional reputation.