Amazon Does It Again, Features Gandhi's Picture On The Flip-Flops After Tricolour Doormats!
Amazon Does It Again, Features Gandhi's Picture On The Flip-Flops After Tricolour Doormats!
Amazon Does It Again, Features Gandhi's Picture On The Flip-Flops After Tricolour Doormats! After the outrage that followed Amazon's big blunder with Indian flag doormats, the US e-retailer has once again managed to hurt the Indian sentiments. This comes days after Amazon Canada featured the sale of tricolour doormats , angering our External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, who demanded an unconditional apology from Amazon for disrespecting our national flag. But it looks like Amazon is not very good at processing backlash because why would it start selling flip-flops featuring Mahatma Gandhi's face on them? The product description describes the "beach sandal" as "foam rubber flip flops" with a "professionally printed" Gandhi face priced at $16.99 or Rs 1,200. According to ANI, the Indian government has directed its Ambassador in Washington to chastise Amazon in respecting Indian sentiments while opening their platform for third party vendor listings. However, even though the listing has been taken off from the website, the damage has been done, for the second time around. Angry Twitter users have already reached out to Sushma Swaraj, asking her to take strict action against the global e-commerce giant.

After the outrage that followed Amazon's big blunder with Indian flag doormats, the US e-retailer has once again managed to hurt the Indian sentiments.

This comes days after Amazon Canada featured the sale of tricolour doormats, angering our External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, who demanded an unconditional apology from Amazon for disrespecting our national flag.

But it looks like Amazon is not very good at processing backlash because why would it start selling flip-flops featuring Mahatma Gandhi's face on them?

Amazon

The product description describes the "beach sandal" as "foam rubber flip flops" with a "professionally printed" Gandhi face priced at $16.99 or Rs 1,200.

According to ANI, the Indian government has directed its Ambassador in Washington to chastise Amazon in respecting Indian sentiments while opening their platform for third party vendor listings.

biography/amazon

However, even though the listing has been taken off from the website, the damage has been done, for the second time around. Angry Twitter users have already reached out to Sushma Swaraj, asking her to take strict action against the global e-commerce giant.

With inputs from TOI