DE Michael Bennett lashes out at reporter after Seattle Seahawks' loss to Atlanta Falcons
Bennett berates reporter after Seahawks' loss
Bennett berates reporter after Seahawks' loss Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Steelers cut former Browns top-10 pick Gilbert Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE SB draws 111.3M viewers on Fox, down slightly Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star 49ers must continue to practice patience with Kyle Shanahan Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Charles Woodson would like the media to be more responsible when probing for answers from players who are fresh off of a loss, since the 10 minutes players are allotted to "cool down" isn't enough for some players like Michael Bennett. (0:57) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered the Philadelphia Eagles for Philadelphia Magazine and Philly.com from 2008 to 2015. Covered the Baltimore Ravens and the NFL for BaltimoreSun.com from 2006 to 2008. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment ATLANTA -- Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett went off on a reporter in the locker room following Seattle's 36-20 loss to the Atlanta Falcons in the NFC divisional round Saturday. Bennett did not appreciate a question suggesting the Seahawks' pass rush struggled to get to Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan . "We got a lot of pressure," Bennett said, according to The Seattle Times . "He threw the ball really fast. There was some busted stuff going on, so obviously you don't know football. He threw the ball pretty fast. He did his thing. We rushed as good as we could. Don't point and say we didn't do what we needed to do, OK? Don't do that." Ryan completed 26 of 37 passes for 338 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions. The Seahawks had three sacks and eight quarterback hits in the game. "Don't tell me I didn't do my job, m-----f-----," Bennett added. "Get the f--- out of my face. Like I said, get out of my face. Don't play with me. Don't play with me. I just put my heart on the f---ing field." Bennett continued his expletive-laden tirade before adding, "Try me again, see what happens." Bennett had three tackles (two for loss), a sack and a quarterback hit. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Charles Woodson would like the media to be more responsible when probing for answers from players who are fresh off of a loss, since the 10 minutes players are allotted to "cool down" isn't enough for some players like Michael Bennett. (0:57)

ATLANTA -- Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett went off on a reporter in the locker room following Seattle's 36-20 loss to the Atlanta Falcons in the NFC divisional round Saturday.

Bennett did not appreciate a question suggesting the Seahawks' pass rush struggled to get to Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan.

Editor's Picks Seahawks fall short of Super Bowl goal during average season The Seahawks have some tricky contract situations and need to make some shrewd moves this offseason to remain a contender.

Matt Ryan, Falcons describe their pivotal 99-yard TD drive The Seahawks had them pinned against their goal line just before halftime. But 99 yards later, the Falcons found the end zone to seize momentum on their way to victory. Listen to how it all went down. 1 Related

"We got a lot of pressure," Bennett said, according to The Seattle Times. "He threw the ball really fast. There was some busted stuff going on, so obviously you don't know football. He threw the ball pretty fast. He did his thing. We rushed as good as we could. Don't point and say we didn't do what we needed to do, OK? Don't do that."

Ryan completed 26 of 37 passes for 338 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions. The Seahawks had three sacks and eight quarterback hits in the game.

"Don't tell me I didn't do my job, m-----f-----," Bennett added. "Get the f--- out of my face. Like I said, get out of my face. Don't play with me. Don't play with me. I just put my heart on the f---ing field."

Bennett continued his expletive-laden tirade before adding, "Try me again, see what happens."

Bennett had three tackles (two for loss), a sack and a quarterback hit.