Is there ANYTHING trackers can't keep tabs on?
Is there ANYTHING trackers can't keep tabs on?  


You know that fitness-tracking watch thingy you got for Christmas and haven't quite worked out how to use? It's old news already. A new wave of wearable devices will be launched this year aiming to monitor and help manage almost every aspect of our health – and even treat illness – and soon one in five Britons will own one, according to industry analysts.

A range of cutting-edge devices, which focus on everything from digestive health and diabetes management to emotional wellbeing, were unveiled at electronics mega-show CES last week in Las Vegas. I tried out the best (and most bizarre) – and here's how they could revolutionise your health…

PUTTING THE WIND UP THOSE INTOLERANCES

WHAT: Plagued with trapped wind, bloating and other digestive discomfort? The AIRE by FoodMarble could be the answer… offering a breath-test that can flag up problems with digesting certain foods.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Food intolerances are rife, with one in five Britons claiming to suffer from one. Those with more severe problems may go through numerous invasive tests to no avail. The AIRE is a version of a proven hospital-based test used to help patients identify foods that might cause excess gas. The wearer can then adjust their diet accordingly, easing symptoms.

The AIRE by FoodMarble offers a breath-test that can flag up problems with digesting certain foods

HOW IT WORKS: The kit comes with sachets containing pure forms of naturally occurring sugars. Different types are found in different foods such as fructose in fruit, and lactose in dairy. These are mixed with water and consumed. The user breathes into a device containing tiny sensors that measure levels of hydrogen and methane gas. High scores indicate a type of sugar is not being properly digested and should be avoided. 'People with IBS suffer from an intolerance to certain sugars and reducing foods containing those helps alleviate symptoms,' said gastroenterologist Dr James Brief.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Pre-order price of £98 including p&p for first devices in August. foodmarble.com

GIVE BAD HAIR DAYS THE BRUSH-OFF

WHAT: The Kerastase Hair Coach Powered by Withings is the world's first smart brush. It's a medium-size flat-paddle hairbrush that houses high-tech gadgetry in its bristles to help give users an accurate appraisal of hair health, and brushing technique.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Although they're not life-threatening, no one likes a bad hair day. Vogue magazine has already billed it 'this year's haircare must-have', while beauty bible Allure claimed it is 'game-changing'.

The Kerastase Hair Coach Powered by Withings is the world's first smart brush (pictured)

HOW IT WORKS: The paddle houses a microphone that connects to an app programmed by science bods at L'Oreal to recognise the sound of damaged, fragile hair as it is brushed, and gives the user a score. Other sensors in the battery- powered device detect moisture levels and brushing motion to give a detailed analysis. 'We can provide a hair diagnosis without leaving the home, and give advice on how to fix problems,' said L'Oreal's Guive Balooch.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Available in the autumn, from £160. withings.com

HAD ONE TOO MANY?

WHAT: Ever had one drink and wondered if you're OK to drive? The BACtrack Skyn is a smartwatch that allows the user to monitor their blood alcohol level in 'near real time', according to the manufacturers, who also make police breath-alysers.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? There are strict alcohol limits for drivers, but, as the website gov.uk advises: 'It's impossible to say how many drinks this equals – it's different for each person.' It can also be different in the same person depending on other factors such as how much food has been eaten.

The BACtrack Skyn is a smartwatch that allows the user to monitor their blood alcohol level

HOW IT WORKS: A sensor in the underside of the watch-face detects minute amounts of ethanol being excreted by the skin. This so-called transdermal alcohol content is then interpreted by software to provide an estimate of blood alcohol level. 'It shows results in a continuous graph form and advises if you are over the limit,' said a spokesman.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Awaiting approval from US watchdogs. bactrack.com

LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE OF YOUR EYES

WHAT: Another first: an at-home vision-checker. The EyeQue is a tube-shaped telescope-like device that clips to the front of a smartphone. The user is asked to perform a number of tests while looking through the lens at the screen, and the app scores the severity of short-sightedness – which can then be relayed to a optometrist.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Eight per cent of British adults have never had an eye test, while research shows the incidence of vision problems such as short sight are on the rise. This tracker aims to give users an at-home alternative to visiting the optician.

The EyeQue is a tube-shaped telescope-like device that clips to the front of a smartphone

HOW IT WORKS: The tube contains a number of lenses. These are adjusted manually by the user as they look through it at two dashes on the screen. He or she taps the screen to make the dashes move and ultimately meet, and the programme calculates the accuracy of the user's vision.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Available this month, from £25. eyeque.com

HEALTH COMMENT: I'VE SEEN THE FUTURE OF HEALTHCARE Whether you think they sound like must-haves or simply roll your eyes, you'd better start getting used to gadgets like these… because this is the not-too-distant future face of healthcare. At CES, many of the major household electrical companies were showcasing telehealth units – similar to those already provided by the NHS to 1.8 million patients in their own homes in the UK – which feature blood-pressure cuffs and other peripherals that allow a greater degree of self-management. The logical next step will be to harness the sensor technology seen in these trackers. We're already used to such things with gadgets like FitBit and the Apple Watch. Connected to call centres via your mobile phone, they will flag up worrying changes with your GP or pharmacy who can adjust your prescriptions, send out advice and advise if and when you may need to seek medical help. Algorithms will predict if you are going to become ill or, through monitoring activity, have an accident, so you can head off problems before they start. Data will also be collated for research, which raises the question of privacy – just who will have access to it? The NHS in England spends 70 per cent of its £130 billion on the 15 million people suffering from a long-term condition such as diabetes or heart disease. They represent half of all GP appointments and 70 per cent of hospital inpatients. Given the desperate need to make savings, it's no surprise that the concept of remote monitoring is attractive to health chiefs. And if it keeps us out of surgery waiting rooms and A&E, it can only be a good thing. Barney Calman

BLOOD GLUCOSE CHECKS... AND NO FINGER PRICKS

WHAT: K Track Glucose from PKvitality is a smartwatch housing sensors that can instantly measure blood sugar levels – an integral part of diabetes management – without the need for painful finger-prick testing.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Diabetes affects three million Britons and occurs when the body either doesn't produce enough or any insulin, a hormone required to convert sugar (glucose) digested from food into energy in the cells. Without this process, glucose builds up in the blood, causing widespread damage throughout the body. Medication is used to replace insulin, but whether or not this is effective requires constant self-monitoring of blood glucose levels. A device that dispensed with this would be a game-changer.

K Track Glucose from PKvitality is a smartwatch housing sensors that can instantly measure blood sugar levels

HOW IT WORKS: Tiny microneedles in the underside of the watch graze the skin, allowing sensors to measure and analyse the amount of glucose in fluids in the skin surface. It is painless and allows the user to test as frequently as they wish. It also houses similar tech to a regular fitness band – calories consumed and burned, steps taken and the like.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Awaiting FDA approval, which the company hopes will mean it's on the market in 2018, costing £120 plus £80 a month for new microneedles. pkvitality.com

GOOD NEWS FOR BAD BREATH

WHAT: Ever wondered if you have bad breath? The Philips Sonicare Breath Care kit might be the answer. It's a small breathalyser that measures levels of malodorous volatile sulphur compounds (VSCs) emitted by bacteria in the mouth, which you often can't smell yourself.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Aside from being antisocial, bad breath is a signifier of overall poor oral health. It could point to gum disease and high bacteria levels, indicating poor hygiene and flagging up health concerns such as immune system and digestive problems.

The Philips Sonicare Breath Care kit is a small breathalyser that measures levels of malodorous volatile sulphur compounds (VSCs) emitted by bacteria in the mouth

HOW IT WORKS: The breathalyser communicates with a smartphone app and gives results in seconds – a score, indicating if you have bad breath. The same app can synchronise with the Philips Flexcare Platinum Connected electric toothbrush and tongue cleaner, allowing you to track oral health and brushing technique.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? The kit is available in America and will be launched in the UK before the summer. Expected price is £97. usa.philips.com

MANAGE YOUR EMOTIONS

WHAT: Feel, billed as the world's first emotion tracker, is a wristband monitoring vital signs that indicate five key moods: joy, contentment, sadness, tension and distress.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? Psychotherapeutic advice for those suffering a host of mental illnesses is to keep a mood diary. 'We often don't know what it is we are doing that makes us stressed or unhappy,' says Feel's George Eleftheriou. 'The first step to changing how we feel is recognising those behaviours, and this helps do that.'

Feel, billed as the world's first emotion tracker, is a wristband monitoring vital signs that indicate five key moods: joy, contentment, sadness, tension and distress

HOW IT WORKS: The band contains sensors that track micro changes in perspiration, body temperature and blood pressure, which indicate heightened emotions. This synchronises with an app that also integrates with the smartphone calendar, social media and even music-playing apps such as Spotify to help users identify exactly what they were doing when they felt a certain way.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? Pre-order for about £170 – first units will ship in the autumn. myfeel.co

THE PERSONAL PREGNANCY COACH

WHAT: Bloomlife, a device that can track the frequency, duration and time between uterine contractions in the last trimester, allowing women 'to better understand their body as it prepares for labour'. Dubbed 'a personal pregnancy coach'.

DO WE REALLY NEED IT? From as early as the second trimester of pregnancy, many experience Braxton Hicks contractions which are uncomfortable, and can be alarming (but don't mean labour is occurring). This tracker would alleviate some of the need for worried A&E visits.

HOW IT WORKS: A smartphone-sized patch, housing a sensor, adheres to the abdomen and gives real-time data – read on a phone app – by picking up electrical signals emitted by muscles in and around the womb. The creators plan to use the long-term data collected to help better understand why premature births occur.

WHEN CAN I GET IT? The first units ship in February, and pricing works on a rental basis – £240 for three months. bloomlife.com