Whining On Social Media Will Get You Punished, Army Chief Tells Staff + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Whining On Social Media Will Get You Punished, Army Chief Tells Staff + 5 Stories From Today
Whining On Social Media Will Get You Punished, Army Chief Tells Staff + 5 Other Major Reads From Today Two days after a jawan posted a video critical of the army on social media, Army chief general Bipin Rawat said if army personnel don't use "proper, specified channels" to air their grievances they will be liable to be punished. "Proper channels are in place for jawans to put across their grievances...if they aren't satisfied with the action taken, they can contact me directly," General Rawat during an address on Army Day today. Read more here Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. Pakistan Interior Minister Admits That Islamabad Deals With Both 'Good Terrorists' and 'Bad Terrorists' Pakistan's interior minister has publicly and unwittingly acknowledged something the world has long known - Islamabad makes a distinction between 'good terrorists' and 'bad terrorists'. And the government is now facing a backlash from an aghast opposition for promoting this distinction, Pakistani media reported. Last week, in the Pakistani Senate, interior minister Chaudhry Nisar said there should be a distinction made between banned terrorist outfits and banned sectarian organisations. The meaning of the former is self-evident; the latter refers to extremist religious organisations. Nisar's comments were no slip of the tongue, because of yesterday, he went so far as to say there should be separate laws for the two groups. Read more here 2. Heat, Cyclones, Floods And Now Cold, 1600 Died From Extreme Weather In India Last Year More than 1,600 people died due to extreme weather conditions across the country last year, with severe heat wave claiming the largest chunk of the total deaths at 40 per cent, followed by flooding and lightning. The IMD said 2016 was the warmest year ever recorded, globally as well as in India. Phalodi in Rajasthan recorded 51 degrees celsius, highest ever recorded in the country. January and February were the warmest winter months ever, according to IMD, which records weather patterns since 1901. Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra topped the casualty list with the states contributing 35 percent of the total. They together recorded 552 deaths due to extreme weather patterns. Read more here

BCCL

Two days after a jawan posted a video critical of the army on social media, Army chief general Bipin Rawat said if army personnel don't use "proper, specified channels" to air their grievances they will be liable to be punished.

"Proper channels are in place for jawans to put across their grievances...if they aren't satisfied with the action taken, they can contact me directly," General Rawat during an address on Army Day today. Read more here

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. Pakistan Interior Minister Admits That Islamabad Deals With Both 'Good Terrorists' and 'Bad Terrorists'

Reuters

Pakistan's interior minister has publicly and unwittingly acknowledged something the world has long known - Islamabad makes a distinction between 'good terrorists' and 'bad terrorists'. And the government is now facing a backlash from an aghast opposition for promoting this distinction, Pakistani media reported.

Last week, in the Pakistani Senate, interior minister Chaudhry Nisar said there should be a distinction made between banned terrorist outfits and banned sectarian organisations.

The meaning of the former is self-evident; the latter refers to extremist religious organisations. Nisar's comments were no slip of the tongue, because of yesterday, he went so far as to say there should be separate laws for the two groups. Read more here

2. Heat, Cyclones, Floods And Now Cold, 1600 Died From Extreme Weather In India Last Year

More than 1,600 people died due to extreme weather conditions across the country last year, with severe heat wave claiming the largest chunk of the total deaths at 40 per cent, followed by flooding and lightning.

The IMD said 2016 was the warmest year ever recorded, globally as well as in India. Phalodi in Rajasthan recorded 51 degrees celsius, highest ever recorded in the country.

BCCL

January and February were the warmest winter months ever, according to IMD, which records weather patterns since 1901. Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra topped the casualty list with the states contributing 35 percent of the total. They together recorded 552 deaths due to extreme weather patterns.Read more here

3. Your WhatsApp Messages Can Be Read Without You Knowing, Due To Encryption Related Issues

indialivetoday.com

The world's biggest mobile messaging service, WhatsApp, is vulnerable to interception, The Guardian reported.

According to the report, WhatsApp messages could be read without its billion-plus users knowing due to a security backdoor in the way the company has implemented its end-to-end encryption protocol.

The system relies on unique security keys "that are traded and verified between users to guarantee communications are secure and cannot be intercepted by a middleman," the report said. Read more here

4. Mastermind Behind Dhaka Cafe Terror Attack Arrested In Bangladesh

BCCL

Bangladesh police on Saturday said they have arrested a top Islamist militant accused of being one of the "masterminds" of the country's worst terror attack at a popular Dhaka cafe and plotting murders of religious minorities including two Hindu priests.

ISIS-linked outlawed Neo-Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen recruiter Jahangir Alam alias Rajib alias Gandhi was arrested Friday night from Elenga, some 120 km north of Dhaka, Counter-Terrorism and Transnational police unit chief Monirul Islam told media.Read more here

5. 'Vannakam!' Canadian PM Justin Trudeau Wishes Tamilians On Pongal, Wins Hearts Yet Again!

Reuters

On the occasion of Pongal, Justin Trudeau took an opportunity to not only wish the Tamil community but also recognize the rich heritage of the Tamil Canadians and hail January as the Tamil Heritage month.

Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, who never fails to seize any opportunity "to celebrate the many cultures, languages and beliefs that make our country (Canada) such a wonderful place to live", has wished Tamilians in Canada and around the world a happy Thai Pongal on Sunday.

In the video, posted on his social media, he begins with a Tamil greeting "Vanakkam!" and says, "Over the next few days, Tamils in Canada and around the world will gather with loved ones to celebrate Thai Pongal. Each day of this festival has its own special meaning and traditions which are tied to abundance, peace and happiness." Read more here