Bloomberg on the App Store
Bloomberg on the App Store


Description

Get comprehensive access to global business and finance news, market data and portfolio tracking tools from the world's most trusted source.



Whether you need to monitor your stock portfolio or just want to discover breaking financial news, Bloomberg provides the news and analysis you require, whenever and wherever you need it.



You can customize the app to monitor your personal portfolio and receive continuous alerts on global stock positions and summarized financial, economic, and company information that meets the needs of the global business and financial professional.



FEATURES:



News:



Read featured and trending stories from our award winning journalists on the leading business topics from around the world in Markets, Industries, Technology, Politics, Luxury, Personal Finance, Opinion and more.



Stay informed with updates and alerts on the latest financial and business news for companies in your Watchlist and on key events affecting the markets such as the Debt Crisis, Elections, Federal Reserve, Technology, Earnings etc.



Market Data:



Get the latest market data on your portfolio personalized for your region including Equity Indexes, Futures, Bonds, Commodities & Currencies.



Additionally, select the markets and securities that are most important to you for instant access.



Watchlist:



Easily track your portfolio by adding a security (stocks, mutual funds, ETFs, currencies, etc.) to your personal Watchlist(s).



Track, manage and analyze personal holdings with powerful performance charts, identify the Leaders & Laggers and comprehend economic movements by Asset Type, Industry & Location.



Access company details that include key statistics, financials and earnings updates.



Video:



Watch Bloomberg Television Live which provides a comprehensive view of global business news, breaking news insights and interviews with industry leaders and market movers.



No Cable or Satellite subscription is needed to watch Bloomberg Live TV.



Watch featured videos specifically chosen for top news categories.



Watch videos embedded in articles for deeper insights to news.



Audio:



Listen to interviews and analysis from around the world by the smartest names in Global Finance, Business, Economics & Investment.



More Features:



Add the Today Widget to quickly see featured articles, markets data in your region, and a Watchlist summary with leaders and laggers.



Download the app now for accurate and concise finance news, stock market intelligence alerts and everything you need to know about currencies, commodities and futures…



Visit us at:



http://www.bloomberg.com