Kim Kardashian's Horrifying Police Statement Following Paris Robbery Has Been Released
Kim Kardashian's Horrifying Police Statement Following Paris Robbery Has Been Released
More details are emerging from the October 2016 robbery involving Kim Kardashian . After initial reports of Kardashian being held at gunpoint after robbers stormed her Paris hotel during Fashion Week, French news outlet has furnished what is believed to be details from the official police report of the incident. The account comes from a meeting with a French police officer at approximately 4:30 a.m., following a timeline of a matter of hours after Kardashian escaped her restraints and called authorities. A particularly detailed section of the report finds Kardashian explaining how she was restrained during the robbery. “He takes out a weapon and I show him the ring,” said Kardashian’s first-person account in the report. “He pointed the weapon toward me. He takes the ring, he wears gloves. He asked me where the jewels and the money are. They catch me and took me in the lobby. I was wearing a bathrobe, naked underneath. Then we went in the room again and they pushed me on the bed. And, at this time, they strapped me with plastic cables and tape on my hands, then they taped my mouth and my legs. They carried me in my bathroom, more specifically in my bathtub.” The report also corroborates Kim Kardashian staying at the No Address Hotel. Based on the Kardashian’s statements, the masked gunmen waited until Kim’s assistant Simone Harouche was asleep and Kourtney Kardashian—who accompanied Kim on the trip—had already parted ways. According to Kim, some of the men also donned outerwear embroidered with the word “Police,” which may further explain speculation that security was abnormally lax or the robbery was an inside job. Kim further detailed how the stolen items quickly added up to a total of nearly $5 million . “There were two bracelets by Cartier, all with diamonds, a necklace by Jacob all in gold and diamond, diamond earrings by Lauren Schwartz, and the other was by Yanina,” the report adds. “There were three necklaces by Jacob all in gold, little bracelets, jewels, rings. A necklace by Lauren Schwartz all in diamonds, another necklace with six little diamonds on it. A last necklace with my son’s name (Saint) all in diamond. I also had just a cross-shaped diamond, by Jacob. A watch by Rolex all in yellow gold. There were two rings in yellow gold. I think they robbed me for 5 million dollars. They didn’t rob my cash. They robbed me an iPhone 6.” In the immediate aftermath of the robbery, Kanye West canceled a stop on his St. Pablo tour. Various news sources report over a dozen people have been arrested in connection with the robbery. Kardashian has since limited her public appearances and social media posts, and the incident is expected to be addressed on her reality show, .

More details are emerging from the October 2016 robbery involving Kim Kardashian. After initial reports of Kardashian being held at gunpoint after robbers stormed her Paris hotel during Fashion Week, French news outlet Le Journal du Dimanche has furnished what is believed to be details from the official police report of the incident.

The account comes from a meeting with a French police officer at approximately 4:30 a.m., following a timeline of a matter of hours after Kardashian escaped her restraints and called authorities. A particularly detailed section of the report finds Kardashian explaining how she was restrained during the robbery.

“He takes out a weapon and I show him the ring,” said Kardashian’s first-person account in the report. “He pointed the weapon toward me. He takes the ring, he wears gloves. He asked me where the jewels and the money are. They catch me and took me in the lobby. I was wearing a bathrobe, naked underneath. Then we went in the room again and they pushed me on the bed. And, at this time, they strapped me with plastic cables and tape on my hands, then they taped my mouth and my legs. They carried me in my bathroom, more specifically in my bathtub.”

The report also corroborates Kim Kardashian staying at the No Address Hotel. Based on the Kardashian’s statements, the masked gunmen waited until Kim’s assistant Simone Harouche was asleep and Kourtney Kardashian—who accompanied Kim on the trip—had already parted ways. According to Kim, some of the men also donned outerwear embroidered with the word “Police,” which may further explain speculation that security was abnormally lax or the robbery was an inside job. Kim further detailed how the stolen items quickly added up to a total of nearly $5 million.

“There were two bracelets by Cartier, all with diamonds, a necklace by Jacob all in gold and diamond, diamond earrings by Lauren Schwartz, and the other was by Yanina,” the report adds. “There were three necklaces by Jacob all in gold, little bracelets, jewels, rings. A necklace by Lauren Schwartz all in diamonds, another necklace with six little diamonds on it. A last necklace with my son’s name (Saint) all in diamond. I also had just a cross-shaped diamond, by Jacob. A watch by Rolex all in yellow gold. There were two rings in yellow gold. I think they robbed me for 5 million dollars. They didn’t rob my cash. They robbed me an iPhone 6.”

In the immediate aftermath of the robbery, Kanye West canceled a stop on his St. Pablo tour. Various news sources report over a dozen people have been arrested in connection with the robbery. Kardashian has since limited her public appearances and social media posts, and the incident is expected to be addressed on her reality show, Keeping up with the Kardashians.