Los Angeles Chargers, Jeff Cumberland booed at Los Angeles Lakers-LA Clippers game
Chargers' new logo, TE jeered at Lakers-Clippers
Chargers' new logo, TE jeered at Lakers-Clippers Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back 1 Related Bar raised high, as success of Patriots'€™ season defined by Super Bowl Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Patriots' Brady: RB White deserves MVP truck Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE Kicker Graham retires after 15 NFL seasons Accused McKnight shooter pleads innocent Brady's jersey missing after Super Bowl LI Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Sports world reacts to Patriots' remarkable Super Bowl LI comeback New England tied for best ATS season ever With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback How the Patriots converted both two-point tries Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Doc Rivers shares the advice he would give to the Chargers with the team moving to Los Angeles and says there's enough room for them in the city. (0:56) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment LOS ANGELES -- The Chargers ' first public presentation in their new city didn't go over so well Saturday. During Saturday's game against the Lakers , the Clippers showed the new Los Angeles Chargers logo on the video screen, and the Staples Center crowd promptly booed. After a few seconds, the screen cut to Chargers tight end Jeff Cumberland , who briefly waved but was also booed. Chargers CEO and president Dean Spanos announced Thursday that the team would move to Los Angeles after 56 seasons in San Diego. The team will play home games the next two seasons at the 30,000-seat StubHub Center in Carson, California. Spanos, his wife, Susie, and two sons, John and AG, were in attendance at Saturday's NBA game. Dean Spanos said he had received a warm reception in Los Angeles. "It really is great to be here," Spanos told Fox Sports Prime Ticket during an in-game interview. "Everybody's been so nice in welcoming me, my family, the Chargers. We're really looking forward to this season." Following a 113-97 victory over the Lakers, Clippers coach Doc Rivers was asked if he had any advice for the Chargers as they deal with a polarizing reception in Los Angeles, which welcomed back the Rams last year. "Well, win," Rivers said. "I don't think there's a [No.] 1 or 2 team yet. I think that the first team that wins will be the first team that wins, if you know what I mean. That would be my only advice. It's good to have them here. You never want anybody to leave a city, but this is a big city, and I think we can handle it. "There's enough room for two basketball teams," Rivers continued. "We have a lot of Clippers fans, and there's a lot of Lakers fans. There are two soccer teams. There are two football teams. I guess there are two baseball teams, even though they're not both in L.A. There's enough room. So it'll be great. We have to something to do on all weekends. That's nice." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Doc Rivers shares the advice he would give to the Chargers with the team moving to Los Angeles and says there's enough room for them in the city. (0:56)

LOS ANGELES -- The Chargers' first public presentation in their new city didn't go over so well Saturday.

During Saturday's game against the Lakers, the Clippers showed the new Los Angeles Chargers logo on the video screen, and the Staples Center crowd promptly booed.

After a few seconds, the screen cut to Chargers tight end Jeff Cumberland, who briefly waved but was also booed.

Chargers CEO and president Dean Spanos announced Thursday that the team would move to Los Angeles after 56 seasons in San Diego. The team will play home games the next two seasons at the 30,000-seat StubHub Center in Carson, California.

Spanos, his wife, Susie, and two sons, John and AG, were in attendance at Saturday's NBA game. Dean Spanos said he had received a warm reception in Los Angeles.

"It really is great to be here," Spanos told Fox Sports Prime Ticket during an in-game interview. "Everybody's been so nice in welcoming me, my family, the Chargers. We're really looking forward to this season."

Following a 113-97 victory over the Lakers, Clippers coach Doc Rivers was asked if he had any advice for the Chargers as they deal with a polarizing reception in Los Angeles, which welcomed back the Rams last year.

"Well, win," Rivers said. "I don't think there's a [No.] 1 or 2 team yet. I think that the first team that wins will be the first team that wins, if you know what I mean. That would be my only advice. It's good to have them here. You never want anybody to leave a city, but this is a big city, and I think we can handle it.

"There's enough room for two basketball teams," Rivers continued. "We have a lot of Clippers fans, and there's a lot of Lakers fans. There are two soccer teams. There are two football teams. I guess there are two baseball teams, even though they're not both in L.A. There's enough room. So it'll be great. We have to something to do on all weekends. That's nice."