Watch Tina Fey as Felicity Jones' Only Hope in 'SNL' Opening Monologue
Watch Tina Fey as Felicity Jones' Only Hope in 'SNL' Opening Monologue
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Watch Tina Fey as Felicity Jones' Only Hope in 'SNL' Opening Monologue  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Felicity Jones is a first-time host and the star of a little indie film you've probably never heard of— . The British actress kicked off 2017's first on January 14 with an opening monologue evoking the role of Jyn Erso, one of few leading ladies in the universe. "I didn't get to use a light saber in the movie," Jones said, "but I did get to transfer a large data file, so it was all very exciting." When Jones admitted she was a little nervous about her debut, help arrived in classic fashion, a hologram of a princess swathed in white—in this case, a sage Tina Fey. Fey comforted Jones by reminding her, "If Steven Seagal can do it, so you can you," then cautioned her that a fatal flaw was built into the SNL system in Season 35: "If you take out Kenan Thompson, the studio will explode." "Is that why he's been on the show so long?" Jones asked. Thompson appeared and answered, "Well, that and he has a family." Jones was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance in 2014's . She also starred in and currently appears in J. A. Bayona's , alongside Liam Neeson as, well, a monster who comes calling.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Felicity Jones is a first-time Saturday Night Live host and the star of a little indie film you've probably never heard of—Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. The British actress kicked off 2017's first SNL on January 14 with an opening monologue evoking the role of Jyn Erso, one of few leading ladies in the Star Wars universe.



"I didn't get to use a light saber in the movie," Jones said, "but I did get to transfer a large data file, so it was all very exciting."



When Jones admitted she was a little nervous about her SNL debut, help arrived in classic Star Wars fashion, a hologram of a princess swathed in white—in this case, a sage Tina Fey.



Fey comforted Jones by reminding her, "If Steven Seagal can do it, so you can you," then cautioned her that a fatal flaw was built into the SNL system in Season 35: "If you take out Kenan Thompson, the studio will explode."



"Is that why he's been on the show so long?" Jones asked.



Thompson appeared and answered, "Well, that and he has a family."



Jones was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance in 2014's The Theory of Everything. She also starred in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 and currently appears in J. A. Bayona's A Monster Calls, alongside Liam Neeson as, well, a monster who comes calling.

