Syrian regime shelling kills 12 in Wadi Barada
Syrian regime shelling kills 12 in Wadi Barada 
t least a dozen civilians were killed and dozens more injured on Sunday by regime shelling in Deir Qanun, a village in Syria's Wadi Barada area, where a standoff over crucial water resources threatened to spin out of control. The escalation was sparked when unknown gunmen shot and killed the negotiator sent from nearby Damascus to repair water infrastructure in exchange for a cessation of hostilities and the withdrawal of rebel fighters. Each side blamed the other for the death of Ahmed al-Ghadban, a retired army officer who had only resumed his duties that day. "This is the highest toll there since the beginning of the truce" on December 30, Rami Abdel Rahman of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said. State media SANA said "terrorists opened fire" on Mr Ghadban after he left a meeting with armed groups in the village of Ain al-Fijeh, about 15 km (9 miles) northwest of Damascus. nti-Assad activists denounced the killing of Ghadban, which they claimed had been ordered by the regime to "kill any hope of a peaceful solution". According to Abdel Rahman, after the shooting, "regime forces and their allies tried to advance to Ain al-Fijeh," bombarding rebel positions with heavy artillery. Ain al-Fijeh, the rebel-controlled spring that supplies Damascus with 70 per cent of its drinking water, is the jewel in the valley’s crown, and a key victory in the fight over vital water resources. For Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, regaining control of water flow is critical to shielding Damascus from the effects of the country’s civil war. ntil water shortages gripped the city in late December, for many of the city's residents whose loyalties lie with Assad, life went on as before the war. The capital is part of what some analysts refer to as “useful Syria”. The Alawite communities on the coast, and the spine running from Daraa in the south to Aleppo in the north, are seen as a core zone of influence where Assad can concentrate his support and exercise his rule. Far from “usable Syria”, in the eastern city of Deir Ezzor, Assad on Sunday lost more territory to Isil. Despite heavy airstrikes by government warplanes, jihadists pressed at the city’s edges for a second straight day, seizing several hilltops near a government air base. At least 12 government fighters and 20 Isil militants were killed in the offensive, which included tunnel bombs and suicide attackers. Isil have held half of Deir Ezzor since 2014. The group has launched several major campaigns to drive government forces out of the city, which in pre-war days was at the heart of the Syrian oil industry. The push in Deir Ezzor comes just a month after the jihadists snatched Palmyra back from government control, suggesting that while Assad and his backers can take territory, holding it is proving to be more complicated.

At least a dozen civilians were killed and dozens more injured on Sunday by regime shelling in Deir Qanun, a village in Syria's Wadi Barada area, where a standoff over crucial water resources threatened to spin out of control.

The escalation was sparked when unknown gunmen shot and killed the negotiator sent from nearby Damascus to repair water infrastructure in exchange for a cessation of hostilities and the withdrawal of rebel fighters.

Each side blamed the other for the death of Ahmed al-Ghadban, a retired army officer who had only resumed his duties that day.

"This is the highest toll there since the beginning of the truce" on December 30, Rami Abdel Rahman of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said.

State media SANA said "terrorists opened fire" on Mr Ghadban after he left a meeting with armed groups in the village of Ain al-Fijeh, about 15 km (9 miles) northwest of Damascus.