Meet Ashton Sanders, Star Of 'Moonlight' And 30 Under 30 Honoree
Meet Ashton Sanders, Star Of 'Moonlight' And 30 Under 30 Honoree
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Robehmed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Ashton Sanders starred as Chiron in coming-of-age drama, 'Moonlight,' which is poised to win big this awards season. (Photo credit: Brian Ach/Invision/AP) Ashton Sanders 21 October 24, 1995  @AshDSanders Inglewood, CA, U.S.A Already have the best, Mahershala Ali. This year particularly has been an extremely busy year for traveling (for business) but between press and film festivals--150 hours Chiron in Stay true to yourself and your craft. Never lose yourself. Never give up on your dream. 2017 30 Under 30: Hollywood & Entertainment I think it’s definitely an advantage-- having success in a field that you love in general is a step up and a blessing. But being under 30, you have the entire world ahead of you and so many opportunities, it seems. Medical Research. Hmm, this is hard. I think that we can really fall into every category. But if I have to choose one--innovators. My iPhone, particularly for business related reasons, and of course my music. Postmates--Roscoe's Chicken and Waffles, The Obama Special. Favorite emoji hands down would have to be the “Rock On" hand emoji, ha. Night owl. Vogue Runway. I was a child, 6 years old to be exact. The definition of success to me is liking yourself and what you do--it’s the most important thing. You can easily be successful and still feel out of touch with yourself and your job. Also, money doesn’t buy you happiness and we should always be trying to achieve greater goals when reaching our “desired” success.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The 2017 30 Under 30 in the Hollywood & Entertainment category join an exclusive list of alumni that includes Donald Glover, Emma Stone, Jennifer Lawrence, Michael B. Jordan and Issa Rae. We caught up with members of the incoming class to learn more about them.

Name: Ashton Sanders

Age: 21

DOB: October 24, 1995

Twitter handle: @AshDSanders

Birth city, state, country: Inglewood, CA, U.S.A

Dream mentor: Already have the best, Mahershala Ali.

How many hours do you spend traveling for work on average per year? This year particularly has been an extremely busy year for traveling (for business) but between press and film festivals--150 hours

Big break? Chiron in Moonlight.

Top Tip for success? Stay true to yourself and your craft. Never lose yourself. Never give up on your dream.

Do you consider being under 30 an advantage or disadvantage?: I think it’s definitely an advantage-- having success in a field that you love in general is a step up and a blessing. But being under 30, you have the entire world ahead of you and so many opportunities, it seems.

If you could donate millions, would you give to (choose one): political/social cause, medical research, religious organization, human rights/disaster relief: Medical Research.

Best way to describe your generation (choose one): inventors, influencers, innovators, idealists: Hmm, this is hard. I think that we can really fall into every category. But if I have to choose one--innovators.

Can’t-live-without gadget: My iPhone, particularly for business related reasons, and of course my music.

Favorite take out order: Postmates--Roscoe's Chicken and Waffles, The Obama Special.

Overused emoji: Favorite emoji hands down would have to be the “Rock On" hand emoji, ha.

Morning person or night owl? Night owl.

Go-to app: Vogue Runway.

When did you decide what you wanted to do in life?: I was a child, 6 years old to be exact.

How do you define success?: The definition of success to me is liking yourself and what you do--it’s the most important thing. You can easily be successful and still feel out of touch with yourself and your job. Also, money doesn’t buy you happiness and we should always be trying to achieve greater goals when reaching our “desired” success.

The 30 Under 30 Hollywood & Entertainment list is edited by Natalie Robehmed, Madeline Berg and Hayley Cuccinello.

See All Of This Year's 30 Under 30 Categories Here

See The 30 Under 30 Hollywood & Entertainment Class Of 2017 Full List Here

Follow on Twitter: #30Under30

Follow me on Twitter.