Did Drake And 2 Chainz Reunite For Another Potential Hit?
Did Drake And 2 Chainz Reunite For Another Potential Hit?
In 2012, Drake and 2 Chainz collaborated on “No Lie,” which was eventually certified platinum and spent 26 weeks on ’s “Hot 100” chart. A recent picture from 2 Chainz’s Instagram feed indicates the two A-listers are looking to recapture the commercial success of their earlier pairing. Early Sunday, 2 Chainz posted a photo of himself in the studio with Drake and captured the picture with the hashtag #PrettyGirlsLikeTrapMusic. Toronto site The6Track.com also furnished a brief video clip of Drake and 2 Chainz from the studio session with what may very well be the finished product or just some previously unreleased 2 Chainz music. New 2 Chainz x Drake being cooked up pic.twitter.com/r9js0MtXTA  With Drake’s album expected to drop sometime during the first quarter of 2017, and 2 Chainz recently having dropped both and as free projects, it’s unclear who will get primary credit for the potential collaboration on their project.

In 2012, Drake and 2 Chainz collaborated on “No Lie,” which was eventually certified platinum and spent 26 weeks on Billboard’s “Hot 100” chart. A recent picture from 2 Chainz’s Instagram feed indicates the two A-listers are looking to recapture the commercial success of their earlier pairing.

Early Sunday, 2 Chainz posted a photo of himself in the studio with Drake and captured the picture with the hashtag #PrettyGirlsLikeTrapMusic. Toronto site The6Track.com also furnished a brief video clip of Drake and 2 Chainz from the studio session with what may very well be the finished product or just some previously unreleased 2 Chainz music.

New 2 Chainz x Drake being cooked up pic.twitter.com/r9js0MtXTA — The6Track (@the6Track) January 15, 2017



With Drake’s More Life album expected to drop sometime during the first quarter of 2017, and 2 Chainz recently having dropped both Hibachi for Lunch and Daniel Son; Necklace Don as free projects, it’s unclear who will get primary credit for the potential collaboration on their project.