Master Sgt. Debra Clayton remembered: 'She believed in helping people'
Remembering Master Sgt. Debra Clayton 
'She believed in helping people': Remembering Master Sgt. Debra Clayton Updated 1401 GMT (2201 HKT) January 13, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Master Sgt. Debra Clayton cared deeply about Orlando's youth "Everything she worked for, she died for," her son says The legacy of Master Sgt. Debra Clayton is one of compassion, hope, and inspiration. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH This loss only strengthens our resolve to fight for justice. Sgt. Clayton grew up in this area and made it her life's work to protect it. pic.twitter.com/4r1ZVj5JLe Sgt. Clayton was extremely active with @pkzorlando . She loved working with kids and they loved her too! Rest peacefully, Sarge. pic.twitter.com/Xfpm4ctiqP Many have asked how they can help. There's a fund for Master Sgt. Clayton's family. This is the ONLY official fund. https://t.co/QfjYmY3nrg  pic.twitter.com/ih2RQxurhI One commendation Sgt. Clayton received in her 17 years at OPD. In this one, @ChiefJohnMina says "we can count on you to go that extra mile" pic.twitter.com/3RvSxRp5Da

Story highlights Master Sgt. Debra Clayton cared deeply about Orlando's youth

"Everything she worked for, she died for," her son says

Orlando, Florida (CNN) The legacy of Master Sgt. Debra Clayton is one of compassion, hope, and inspiration.

"She was a police officer, but she was a community activist. She believed in helping people and her hand was always out to help you," said Jack Williams, one of Clayton's closest friends.

Clayton, 42, died Monday morning, shot and killed outside a Walmart by a suspect on the run. She was one of two officers Orlando lost that day. A few hours later, Norman Lewis, a deputy first class with the Orange County Sheriff's Office, was killed in an vehicle accident while searching for Clayton's assailant.

JUST WATCHED 2 officers dead in Orlando manhunt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 officers dead in Orlando manhunt 01:14

Clayton grew up in Orlando. She went on to the University of Central Florida and received a master's degree. She is being remembered for her service to the community, intelligence and passion to bring people together.

She had worked for the police department for 17 years.

Read More