Why Strategic Investment Isn't Always A Good Strategy For Startups
Why Strategic Investment Isn't Always A Good Strategy For Startups
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Valley Voices       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Know what you’re getting into when you work with a strategic investor. (Credit: Shutterstock) You hear about ‘strategic’ investments every day, and they generally come in two flavors. The first is an “off balance sheet” investment in a private tech company. Examples include Toyota’s investment in Uber earlier this year, and Apple’s $1bn infusion into Didi Kuadi. These are generally one off in nature, and are generally handled within existing organizational structures. However, some corporations have gone even further, and formed dedicated venture capital funds specifically geared toward investing in startups. Comcast , Time Warner , Intel,  Google and GM have all gone this route and are now part of a rapidly expanding ecosystem. CB Insights estimates that 53 new corporate VC units globally began deploying capital in the first half of 2016. With even old-economy corporations such as General Mills and Campbell Soup entering the venture game, it’s clear that everyone wants in on startups. Erin Griffith recently said that financial venture capitalists are now competing with their potential (strategic) buyers for startups, as CPG giants increasingly look to build relationships and invest in upstart disrupters earlier and earlier. Fred Wilson calls corporate VC’s ‘ the devil ’ and argues that it’s ‘last resort’ money for founders to take, whereas Accel’s Rich Wong recommends founders ‘tamp down disdain’ for strategic investors, understanding that said companies may one day become your acquirer. There are differing views on strategic VC’s from among the financial investor community. I’ll provide a framework for how to think about corporate investments in a 2 part article (this being part I). Corporates treat startups as experiments — not a huge deal for them if it goes wrong. Big deal for the startup though! (Credit: Shutterstock) While visiting Japan a few months ago for a tech conference, I was interested in meeting some of my Tokyo-based venture compatriots. I was surprised to learn that a culture of venture capital doesn’t really exist in Japan because corporate R&D teams do a great job of building exploratory new expertise and products, combined with Japan’s ‘job for life’ legacy whereby would-be entrepreneurs are less likely to leave their corporate mothership to start a new company. While U.S. corporate R&D spending is commendable by international standards — $145 billion in-country in 2015, more than any other country — it is not sufficient for keeping large companies at the forefront of innovation nor keep them safe from the threat of Schumpeter’s . Combating risk of their own obsolescence, corporates will pursue one of the following strategies: Acquire a startup for its team, talent, and tech Partner (or launch) an accelerator, working with startups whose products are of strategic relevance to the company Non-recurring engineering paid projects where the corporate provides resources and payment in exchange for a specified project to be completed by the startup In each instance, the corporate will likely consider the startup as an experiment. An experiment in whether or not the startup’s tech works, whether there’s product market fit, and whether or not it makes sense to acquire the company (or a rival in the same space). If the startup folds, then it’s no big deal for the deep-pocketed corporate. By investing, the corporate saw a quick and nimble failure in a new industry sub-space, saving 10x the resources spent should the mothership have been redirected with similar exploratory aim. Union Square’s Fred Wilson, in mid 2016, argued against taking corporate investment and didn’t believe strategics served startups well through investing. He said ‘corporate investing is dumb. I think corporations should BUY companies. Investing in companies makes no sense. Don’t waste your money being a minority investor in something you don’t control. You’re a corporation! You want the asset? Buy it…Making a minority investment in something? What does that do? Make you look smart in front of your boss?’ From the point of view of the corporation, appearing innovative can also be a good thing for large corporations for marketing purposes. Beyond just perception management, internal incubators and accelerators can genuinely get calcified cogs turning at lethargic, fat corporates by . For early stage companies, financial VCs (such as Signia) will rarely invest in a startup a strategic has already invested. This is often due to the strategic’s relative price in-elasticity compared to early stage financial VCs. It’s common parlance to assume ‘strategics don’t mind paying up.’ Those without dedicated funds are not in the market every day and don’t really know what comparable deals are getting priced at, so founders can typically argue for higher pre-money valuations at the negotiating table. It can certainly make sense to bring strategics on board later in a company’s life cycle, off the back of a growing and successful customer — vendor relationship between the two, for example. The value add that seed-stage financial investors bring to the table in terms of help with hiring, product launch, preparing the business for follow on funding, etc. — there’s less of a standard path to add that kind of value with early stage startups from strategics. Their ‘day job’ is not to help the startup grow — it’s to run their corporation to the benefit of shareholders — and mentoring startup experiments can fall to the bottom of the list when standard work beckons. For example, even with in-house incubators, startups can sometimes attract initial attention from divisional heads, but fast become forgotten when traditional everyday business takes up their time.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

You hear about ‘strategic’ investments every day, and they generally come in two flavors. The first is an “off balance sheet” investment in a private tech company. Examples include Toyota’s investment in Uber earlier this year, and Apple’s $1bn infusion into Didi Kuadi. These are generally one off in nature, and are generally handled within existing organizational structures.

However, some corporations have gone even further, and formed dedicated venture capital funds specifically geared toward investing in startups. Comcast, Time Warner, Intel, Google and GM have all gone this route and are now part of a rapidly expanding ecosystem. CB Insights estimates that 53 new corporate VC units globally began deploying capital in the first half of 2016. With even old-economy corporations such as General Mills and Campbell Soup entering the venture game, it’s clear that everyone wants in on startups.

Erin Griffith recently said that financial venture capitalists are now competing with their potential (strategic) buyers for startups, as CPG giants increasingly look to build relationships and invest in upstart disrupters earlier and earlier. Fred Wilson calls corporate VC’s ‘the devil’ and argues that it’s ‘last resort’ money for founders to take, whereas Accel’s Rich Wong recommends founders ‘tamp down disdain’ for strategic investors, understanding that said companies may one day become your acquirer.

There are differing views on strategic VC’s from among the financial investor community. I’ll provide a framework for how to think about corporate investments in a 2 part article (this being part I).

Why are corporate VCs interested in your startup?

While visiting Japan a few months ago for a tech conference, I was interested in meeting some of my Tokyo-based venture compatriots. I was surprised to learn that a culture of venture capital doesn’t really exist in Japan because corporate R&D teams do a great job of building exploratory new expertise and products, combined with Japan’s ‘job for life’ legacy whereby would-be entrepreneurs are less likely to leave their corporate mothership to start a new company.

While U.S. corporate R&D spending is commendable by international standards — $145 billion in-country in 2015, more than any other country — it is not sufficient for keeping large companies at the forefront of innovation nor keep them safe from the threat of Schumpeter’s creative destruction. Combating risk of their own obsolescence, corporates will pursue one of the following strategies:

Acquire a startup for its team, talent, and tech Partner (or launch) an accelerator, working with startups whose products are of strategic relevance to the company Non-recurring engineering paid projects where the corporate provides resources and payment in exchange for a specified project to be completed by the startup

In each instance, the corporate will likely consider the startup as an experiment. An experiment in whether or not the startup’s tech works, whether there’s product market fit, and whether or not it makes sense to acquire the company (or a rival in the same space). If the startup folds, then it’s no big deal for the deep-pocketed corporate. By investing, the corporate saw a quick and nimble failure in a new industry sub-space, saving 10x the resources spent should the mothership have been redirected with similar exploratory aim.

Union Square’s Fred Wilson, in mid 2016, argued against taking corporate investment and didn’t believe strategics served startups well through investing. He said ‘corporate investing is dumb. I think corporations should BUY companies. Investing in companies makes no sense. Don’t waste your money being a minority investor in something you don’t control. You’re a corporation! You want the asset? Buy it…Making a minority investment in something? What does that do? Make you look smart in front of your boss?’

From the point of view of the corporation, appearing innovative can also be a good thing for large corporations for marketing purposes. Beyond just perception management, internal incubators and accelerators can genuinely get calcified cogs turning at lethargic, fat corporates by inspiring internal innovation.

How are corporate VCs different from financial VCs?

For early stage companies, financial VCs (such as Signia) will rarely invest in a startup after a strategic has already invested. This is often due to the strategic’s relative price in-elasticity compared to early stage financial VCs. It’s common parlance to assume ‘strategics don’t mind paying up.’ Those without dedicated funds are not in the market every day and don’t really know what comparable deals are getting priced at, so founders can typically argue for higher pre-money valuations at the negotiating table.

It can certainly make sense to bring strategics on board later in a company’s life cycle, off the back of a growing and successful customer — vendor relationship between the two, for example. The value add that seed-stage financial investors bring to the table in terms of help with hiring, product launch, preparing the business for follow on funding, etc. — there’s less of a standard path to add that kind of value with early stage startups from strategics. Their ‘day job’ is not to help the startup grow — it’s to run their corporation to the benefit of shareholders — and mentoring startup experiments can fall to the bottom of the list when standard work beckons. For example, even with in-house incubators, startups can sometimes attract initial attention from divisional heads, but fast become forgotten when traditional everyday business takes up their time.

Continue reading...