U.S. Shale's Great Reawakening
Here It Comes
U.S. Shale's Great Reawakening   Commodities  Julian Lee is an oil strategist for Bloomberg First Word. Previously he worked as a senior analyst at the Centre for Global Energy Studies.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  OPEC and its friends have just received some uncomfortable reading. The latest forecasts from the U.S. Energy Information Administration suggest that their agreements to boost prices and hasten the rebalancing of oil supply and demand by cutting output may bring the U.S. shale industry out of hibernation faster than they might like. The EIA's monthly report published on Tuesday raised its forecast of global oil demand growth for 2017 to 1.63 million barrels a day from last month's 1.56 million, its third successive increase -- that should be good news for producers. At the same time, though, the EIA boosted its outlook for U.S. oil production. This is where the news gets bad for OPEC. Separate weekly EIA data published on Wednesday showed a 176,000 barrel-a-day jump in U.S. production from the previous week, the biggest increase since May 2015. A large part of that increase came from a revision of fourth-quarter output figures, with U.S. production raised by 100,000 barrels a day from the previous estimate -- this isn't an example of shale responding quickly to higher prices. Why is this important? Because it means that U.S. oil production was already growing more strongly (due to increased drilling rates) than thought at a time when the consensus view was that OPEC would fail to agree to cuts and that oil prices would struggle to rise above $50 per barrel this year. These suppositions were undermined on Nov. 30, when the group agreed to cut output by around 1.2 million barrels a day, followed in early December by pledges from 11 non-OPEC countries to contribute a further 560,000 barrels of cuts. The EIA now sees U.S. production reaching 9.22 million barrels a day by December, an increase of 320,000 barrels over the year. But this could quickly start to look like a conservative forecast. The incoming U.S. president and Congress may turn out to be more supportive of oil extraction than the outgoing ones, after Donald Trump said in September that he would "lift the restrictions on American energy and allow this wealth to pour into our communities." This could give the shale sector a further boost. Given that we now know that U.S. output was rising at a rate of 50,000 barrels a day each month in the last quarter of 2016, the warming price environment created by the OPEC deal and the benign impact of reduced regulation have set the stage for signs of life in shale to gather pace. And if prices go further above $55, that could provide further impetus to its return. It was always going to be a matter of when and not if OPEC would have to start grappling with the return of shale, and it looks like that time had already come even before it started supporting oil prices again. The big question is to what degree will the group and its members comply with what they said they'll do, and how much extra boost that will give to the U.S. shale oil industry. OPEC is already talking of extending the time frame for its output cuts when it meets in May. It may also have to consider deepening them if it's serious about balancing supply and demand. The problem it faces is that doing so will simply improve the outlook for shale. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at jlee1627@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at jryan13@bloomberg.net Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer  Outsized Robot Cars  Blessed Are the Chipmakers   Tech  Thin Cushion Yurt Hurt  Don't Play With Mongolian Fire   Markets  Gain since Duterte took office Optimism alloyed  The Nickel Reversion   Commodities  First Impressions  I'm Fascinated by Snapchat Charts, So I Liveblogged   Tech  Trump on the New York Times Special Edition  Trump Times: A Tale of Two Newsrooms   Media

OPEC and its friends have just received some uncomfortable reading. The latest forecasts from the U.S. Energy Information Administration suggest that their agreements to boost prices and hasten the rebalancing of oil supply and demand by cutting output may bring the U.S. shale industry out of hibernation faster than they might like.

The EIA's monthly report published on Tuesday raised its forecast of global oil demand growth for 2017 to 1.63 million barrels a day from last month's 1.56 million, its third successive increase -- that should be good news for producers. At the same time, though, the EIA boosted its outlook for U.S. oil production.

Demand Growth Strengthening The EIA has been getting more bullish in its forecasts of global oil demand growth for 2017 Source: Department of Energy

This is where the news gets bad for OPEC. Separate weekly EIA data published on Wednesday showed a 176,000 barrel-a-day jump in U.S. production from the previous week, the biggest increase since May 2015. A large part of that increase came from a revision of fourth-quarter output figures, with U.S. production raised by 100,000 barrels a day from the previous estimate -- this isn't an example of shale responding quickly to higher prices.

Steps to Recovery The recovery in U.S. oil production began to accelerate in the final quarter of 2016 Source: Department of Energy

Why is this important? Because it means that U.S. oil production was already growing more strongly (due to increased drilling rates) than thought at a time when the consensus view was that OPEC would fail to agree to cuts and that oil prices would struggle to rise above $50 per barrel this year. These suppositions were undermined on Nov. 30, when the group agreed to cut output by around 1.2 million barrels a day, followed in early December by pledges from 11 non-OPEC countries to contribute a further 560,000 barrels of cuts.

Revising the Future The recovery in U.S. oil production just got a lot faster in the latest short-term outlook Source: Department of Energy

The EIA now sees U.S. production reaching 9.22 million barrels a day by December, an increase of 320,000 barrels over the year. But this could quickly start to look like a conservative forecast.

The incoming U.S. president and Congress may turn out to be more supportive of oil extraction than the outgoing ones, after Donald Trump said in September that he would "lift the restrictions on American energy and allow this wealth to pour into our communities." This could give the shale sector a further boost.

Shale's Reawakening U.S. oil production is growing again as shale comes out of hibernation faster than OPEC may have hoped Source: Department of Energy

Given that we now know that U.S. output was rising at a rate of 50,000 barrels a day each month in the last quarter of 2016, the warming price environment created by the OPEC deal and the benign impact of reduced regulation have set the stage for signs of life in shale to gather pace. And if prices go further above $55, that could provide further impetus to its return.

It was always going to be a matter of when and not if OPEC would have to start grappling with the return of shale, and it looks like that time had already come even before it started supporting oil prices again. The big question is to what degree will the group and its members comply with what they said they'll do, and how much extra boost that will give to the U.S. shale oil industry.

OPEC is already talking of extending the time frame for its output cuts when it meets in May. It may also have to consider deepening them if it's serious about balancing supply and demand. The problem it faces is that doing so will simply improve the outlook for shale.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Julian Lee in London at jlee1627@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Jennifer Ryan at jryan13@bloomberg.net