Here's How WeChat's Parent Company Tencent Celebrated New Year, With A Fake B*lowjob Game
Here's How WeChat's Parent Company Tencent Celebrated New Year, With A Fake B*lowjob Game
Here's How WeChat's Parent Company Tencent Celebrated New Year, With A Fake B*lowjob Game A leaked video of a year-end party of Tencent, which recently emerged as the biggest tech company in China by value, shows four employees engaged in a "game" of simulated oral sex in front of a large group of employees. Two young girls are seen trying to open water bottles held by two company executives between their thighs, according to the video that has gone viral. Tencent Holdings condemned the inappropriateness of the game on Chinese social media site Zhihu, vowing never to repeat such mistakes. The company also said that workers involved had been punished with "demerits" on their company record. The company blamed the incident on inadequate oversight on the behaviour of employees. The company's statement did not seem to soften the anger of a large group of social media users who have lashed out against the behaviour and labelled the company as sexist. A female social media user posted a comment saying, "If they don't do this, then they would be out of a job. We must change this kind of disgraceful male chauvinistic culture!" Another asked, "How could a company treat its workers in this way? Do they not have any sense of decency?" A seven-second viral on social media sites, and circulated through Twitter and YouTube, showed two girls on their knees in front of standing executives while struggling to open the plastic cap of the water bottles. Sounds of a ruckus audience cheering the players in the "game" can be heard in the video. The party involved employees of the instant messaging department of Tencent, which owns China's famous Twitter like, WeChat platform. Two other Chinese tech companies, Alibaba and Baidu, have attracted criticism for their sexist attitudes in the recent past. Alibaba was criticised for allowing people to upload suggestive photos of women, apparently seeking to contact wealthy men, in a social feature within its AliPay app. One post in the social feature, called "Circles" showed a photo of a woman's cleavage, with an apparent request for money, "If you don't gift me, how can you get my contact info and become my friend?" This led to Alipay's Chairwoman Lucy Peng apologising to AliPay users and partners for what she called the "Campus Diary controversy." The Wall Street Journal quoted an internal letter in which she said that while Alipay needed to change to create better services for its users, the type of traffic generated by those Circles went against the values of Alibaba and Alipay. A Baidu executive was demoted after critics pointed out that he had made a sexist presentation at a public event. "If a girl says to me, 'The air conditioning in my dorm doesn't work, and I don't want to go home,' what does she mean? I think it means she wants to kiss and have some sex," he told his audience.

A leaked video of a year-end party of Tencent, which recently emerged as the biggest tech company in China by value, shows four employees engaged in a "game" of simulated oral sex in front of a large group of employees. Two young girls are seen trying to open water bottles held by two company executives between their thighs, according to the video that has gone viral.

wp.com

Tencent Holdings condemned the inappropriateness of the game on Chinese social media site Zhihu, vowing never to repeat such mistakes. The company also said that workers involved had been punished with "demerits" on their company record. The company blamed the incident on inadequate oversight on the behaviour of employees.

The company's statement did not seem to soften the anger of a large group of social media users who have lashed out against the behaviour and labelled the company as sexist.

A female social media user posted a comment saying, "If they don't do this, then they would be out of a job. We must change this kind of disgraceful male chauvinistic culture!" Another asked, "How could a company treat its workers in this way? Do they not have any sense of decency?"

A seven-second viral on social media sites, and circulated through Twitter and YouTube, showed two girls on their knees in front of standing executives while struggling to open the plastic cap of the water bottles. Sounds of a ruckus audience cheering the players in the "game" can be heard in the video. The party involved employees of the instant messaging department of Tencent, which owns China's famous Twitter like, WeChat platform.

Two other Chinese tech companies, Alibaba and Baidu, have attracted criticism for their sexist attitudes in the recent past. Alibaba was criticised for allowing people to upload suggestive photos of women, apparently seeking to contact wealthy men, in a social feature within its AliPay app. One post in the social feature, called "Circles" showed a photo of a woman's cleavage, with an apparent request for money, "If you don't gift me, how can you get my contact info and become my friend?"

This led to Alipay's Chairwoman Lucy Peng apologising to AliPay users and partners for what she called the "Campus Diary controversy." The Wall Street Journal quoted an internal letter in which she said that while Alipay needed to change to create better services for its users, the type of traffic generated by those Circles went against the values of Alibaba and Alipay.

A Baidu executive was demoted after critics pointed out that he had made a sexist presentation at a public event. "If a girl says to me, 'The air conditioning in my dorm doesn't work, and I don't want to go home,' what does she mean? I think it means she wants to kiss and have some sex," he told his audience.

Originally Published in the Times Of India