Store Your Bike in Style
How to Store Your Bike in Style
The company name comes from a cool-looking wood with blue-gray streaks that remain after pine beetles have attacked and killed a tree. The notch in the rack is lined with cork to protect your frame from scratches, and the underside is magnetized to hold keys.  Strong enough to hold a bike and versatile enough to catch coats, yoga mats, or almost anything else you’d want to hang up. Hook a wheel on the steel peg; use the birch-wood side to hold a helmet or lock.  First, screw the knobs into the wall. Then add the powder-coated steel hooks, accessorized with leather covers for paint-friendly bike cradling. Slide the hooks off when not in use if you’re bothered by that sort of thing.  Available in solid walnut or maple, with bronze caps disguising regular old mounting screws (included). If you’re a surfer, Make also sells a rack for your board.   This elegant, ski-shaped rack is the rare vertical model that protects your wall from tire scuffs.

Photographer: Andrew Musson for Bloomberg Businessweek

Bika by Killwood

$300; killwood.ca

The company name comes from a cool-looking wood with blue-gray streaks that remain after pine beetles have attacked and killed a tree. The notch in the rack is lined with cork to protect your frame from scratches, and the underside is magnetized to hold keys.

Photographer: Andrew Musson for Bloomberg Businessweek



Lift hook by Ippinka

$78; lifthook.co

Strong enough to hold a bike and versatile enough to catch coats, yoga mats, or almost anything else you’d want to hang up. Hook a wheel on the steel peg; use the birch-wood side to hold a helmet or lock.







Photographer: Andrew Musson for Bloomberg Businessweek



Bike hook by Alexa Lethen

$128; alexalethen.de

First, screw the knobs into the wall. Then add the powder-coated steel hooks, accessorized with leather covers for paint-friendly bike cradling. Slide the hooks off when not in use if you’re bothered by that sort of thing.







Photographer: Andrew Musson for Bloomberg Businessweek

Make bike rack by Make

$180; themake.co

Available in solid walnut or maple, with bronze caps disguising regular old mounting screws (included). If you’re a surfer, Make also sells a rack for your board.

Photographer: Andrew Musson for Bloomberg Businessweek

Rack by Artifox

$199; theartifox.com

This elegant, ski-shaped rack is the rare vertical model that protects your wall from tire scuffs.