Riff Raff Is Still Campaigning To Perform At Donald Trump's Inauguration
Riff Raff Is Still Campaigning To Perform At Donald Trump's Inauguration
Riff Raff isn’t giving up. In the days following Donald Trump’s election victory, the Houston rapper announced he’d perform at the presidential inauguration for $50,000. And although we’re only five days away from the event, Riff Raff is still trying to lock down a deal. RETWEET & TAG @RealDonaldTrump iF U WANT RiFF RAFF TO PERFORM  "ONLY iN AMERiCA" https://t.co/1zNKjAKq33  AT THE PRESiDENT iNAUGURATiON pic.twitter.com/17BlN19MNe In mid-November, Riff Raff told he would perform at Trump’s inauguration because of one simple fact: He wants to see his bank account swell. “Well, I love money. And I’m in America. And I was born in America. And I love money. So, why wouldn’t I? Gimme a lil’ 50k, I’m good,” he told . “I’ve had to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes, close to a million dollars in taxes myself […] On the bright side, somebody told me that Donald Trump is going to lower the taxes from 40-something percent to 15 percent. That means 300,000 to 400,000 in my bank account personally. That’s a Lambo a year, money that I’ve been giving away. Whoever it is, I don’t care if it’s a pack of Starbursts that’s running for president." Within the last month, it was reported that Trump’s inaugural committee was struggling to find artists to perform at the event; however, the president-elect’s camp later denied this (of course) . Elton John, Céline Dion, and Garth Brooks were just some of the big-name acts who reportedly turned down the offer to perform for Trump, which lead many people to wonder: Would there by a concert at all? Well, on Friday, Trump’s inaugural committee announced they had finalized the event’s entertainment lineup, and revealed this year’s performers would include Toby Keith, Jon Voight, and 3 Doors Down . With only five more days until the event, it's not looking too good for Riff Raff.

Riff Raff isn’t giving up.

In the days following Donald Trump’s election victory, the Houston rapper announced he’d perform at the presidential inauguration for $50,000. And although we’re only five days away from the event, Riff Raff is still trying to lock down a deal.

RETWEET & TAG @RealDonaldTrump iF U WANT RiFF RAFF TO PERFORM



"ONLY iN AMERiCA" https://t.co/1zNKjAKq33



AT THE PRESiDENT iNAUGURATiON pic.twitter.com/17BlN19MNe — RiFF RAFF (@JODYHiGHROLLER) January 15, 2017

In mid-November, Riff Raff told TMZ he would perform at Trump’s inauguration because of one simple fact: He wants to see his bank account swell.

“Well, I love money. And I’m in America. And I was born in America. And I love money. So, why wouldn’t I? Gimme a lil’ 50k, I’m good,” he told TMZ. “I’ve had to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes, close to a million dollars in taxes myself […] On the bright side, somebody told me that Donald Trump is going to lower the taxes from 40-something percent to 15 percent. That means 300,000 to 400,000 in my bank account personally. That’s a Lambo a year, money that I’ve been giving away. Whoever it is, I don’t care if it’s a pack of Starbursts that’s running for president."

Within the last month, it was reported that Trump’s inaugural committee was struggling to find artists to perform at the event; however, the president-elect’s camp later denied this (of course). Elton John, Céline Dion, and Garth Brooks were just some of the big-name acts who reportedly turned down the offer to perform for Trump, which lead many people to wonder: Would there by a concert at all?

Well, on Friday, Trump’s inaugural committee announced they had finalized the event’s entertainment lineup, and revealed this year’s performers would include Toby Keith, Jon Voight, and 3 Doors Down. With only five more days until the event, it's not looking too good for Riff Raff.