Miley Cyrus had a weed bar at Liam Hemsworth and Wayne Coyne's birthday party
Miley Cyrus had a weed bar at Liam Hemsworth and Wayne Coyne's birthday party
Hey, did you know Miley Cyrus likes smoking pot? The singer celebrated more of her favorite things — Liam Hemsworth , the Flaming Lips' Wayne Coyne and her kid sister, Noah — by throwing them a "joint" birthday party in the USA. The bash featured a weed bar from Snoop Dogg's marijuana company, Merry Jane, naturally. SEE ALSO: Liam Hemsworth makes an adorably awkward appearance in the Cyrus Christmas photo Because they are celebrities, letter balloons were involved. ...beginning... @merryjane A photo posted by Wayne Coyne (@waynecoyne5) on Miley accessorized for the occasion with more green. @merryjane hooked it up! Wowzyyyyyyyy! Thanks Uncle @snoopdogg for being such a dope ganja innovator A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on "There was literally a whole bar with bowls of joints, laced chocolate and bags of marijuana for guests to take," a source told . Miley sounds like a gracious host! There were even weed-garitas. Oh HAILLLL YEAH!!!! A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Miley is still wearing grills for some reason. 💚❤️💛💙💜 @waynecoyne5 @katyweaver A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on LOL We are Team WAYYY 2 Much! Lol #choreography n z middle of da party. Fuck yeah! #jblproductions @waynecoyne5 @jesse.light @katyweaver @noahcyrus @juicyj lol #bestpartyever #OhNoMyGrill A video posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on At the end of the night, this horse statue was the only man left standing. The end. A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Hemsworth/Buddy from thanks everyone for celebrating his special day. Thanks for all the birthday wishes everyone! Lots of love! A photo posted by Liam Hemsworth (@liamhemsworth) on Cyrus recently collaborated with The Flaming Lips on the song "We A Family" off their new album, , which was released Friday. BONUS: At 98 years old, this has to be the world’s oldest yoga teacher

Hey, did you know Miley Cyrus likes smoking pot?

The singer celebrated more of her favorite things — Liam Hemsworth, the Flaming Lips' Wayne Coyne and her kid sister, Noah — by throwing them a "joint" birthday party in the USA. The bash featured a weed bar from Snoop Dogg's marijuana company, Merry Jane, naturally.

SEE ALSO: Liam Hemsworth makes an adorably awkward appearance in the Cyrus Christmas photo

Because they are celebrities, letter balloons were involved.

...beginning... @merryjane A photo posted by Wayne Coyne (@waynecoyne5) on Jan 14, 2017 at 2:33pm PST

Miley accessorized for the occasion with more green.

@merryjane hooked it up! Wowzyyyyyyyy! Thanks Uncle @snoopdogg for being such a dope ganja innovator A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Jan 14, 2017 at 12:15pm PST

"There was literally a whole bar with bowls of joints, laced chocolate and bags of marijuana for guests to take," a source told Us Weekly. Miley sounds like a gracious host!

There were even weed-garitas.

Oh HAILLLL YEAH!!!! A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Jan 14, 2017 at 9:25pm PST

Miley is still wearing grills for some reason.

💚❤️💛💙💜 @waynecoyne5 @katyweaver A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Jan 14, 2017 at 12:21pm PST

At the end of the night, this horse statue was the only man left standing.

The end. A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Jan 14, 2017 at 9:42pm PST

Hemsworth/Buddy from Elf thanks everyone for celebrating his special day.

Thanks for all the birthday wishes everyone! Lots of love! A photo posted by Liam Hemsworth (@liamhemsworth) on Jan 13, 2017 at 5:08pm PST

Cyrus recently collaborated with The Flaming Lips on the song "We A Family" off their new album, Oczy Mlody, which was released Friday.