Are Carmelo Anthony's Days With the Knicks Coming to an End?
Are Carmelo Anthony's Days With the Knicks Coming to an End?
The relationship between the New York Knicks and Carmelo Anthony are on the rocks. Earlier this week, Charley Rosen, a good friend of Knicks president Phil Jackson , wrote a piece for Following another demoralizing loss for the Knicks, 'Melo discussed Rosen's claim that he has outlived his usefulness in New York.  Even though Carmelo was made aware of the fact that these were Rosen's words, and not coming from his friend Phil, he wasn't buying it. Regardless of the front that Anthony may think he's putting up, things are getting really bad within the Knicks organization. Following Phil's "ball hog" comments about him, 'Melo admitted that the remarks created a black cloud over the team. It's only a matter of time before Carmelo can no longer brush off the digs Jackson takes at him. sportstips@complex.com

The relationship between the New York Knicks and Carmelo Anthony are on the rocks. Earlier this week, Charley Rosen, a good friend of Knicks president Phil Jackson, wrote a piece for FanRag Sports where he suggested that Anthony has "outlived his usefulness in New York," and could be entertaining the possibility of waiving his no-trade clause, but would only accept a deal to the Los Angeles Clippers or Cleveland Cavaliers.

Following another demoralizing loss for the Knicks, 'Melo discussed Rosen's claim that he has outlived his usefulness in New York. "If that's the case than that's what's coming from that side I guess it's a conversation we should have," Anthony said, per Frank Isola of the New York Daily News. "If they feel like my time in New York is over I guess that's a conversation we should have."

Even though Carmelo was made aware of the fact that these were Rosen's words, and not coming from his friend Phil, he wasn't buying it. "Listen," Anthony said. "If that's what they feel…if that's what's coming from that side that's what's coming from that side. I haven't thought once about that to be honest with you. I hear it. I hear all the rhetoric that's going on out there and I still come to work every day and play and bust my ass and try not to worry about it."

Regardless of the front that Anthony may think he's putting up, things are getting really bad within the Knicks organization. Following Phil's "ball hog" comments about him, 'Melo admitted that the remarks created a black cloud over the team. It's only a matter of time before Carmelo can no longer brush off the digs Jackson takes at him.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.