The National Portrait Gallery unveiled a ‘witty’ picture of Donald Trump

On Friday morning, the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery did what it’s always done before the inauguration of a new president and revealed a portrait of the man in question. So the public did what it’s always done, and came to see it. “Why is he tossing an apple?” asked a woman strolling through with two friends. “Because it’s the Big Apple,” one friend replied. The first woman said that she liked the inclusion of the apple. “I’m a dietitian, so that’s good.” This artwork in question: not, alas, a surprise reappearance of the six-foot-tall painting that Donald Trump bought with his charity’s money and which then went AWOL (Have you seen it? Send tips!), but rather a 1989 studio photograph by the photographer Michael O’Brien. Trump, in a suit and tie, stands against a blue sky backdrop, an apple tossed from his hand hanging in midair. The portrait is temporary. It will hang in its spot on the first floor until the end of February. It’s not an official presidential depiction — those aren’t commissioned until the end of a presidential term, and they join the official gallery upstairs only after the pol has left the White House. “It’s very witty, and we think a good representation,” said David Ward, the museum’s chief historian who was on hand to answer questions about the artwork. “It’s simultaneously a respectful portrait, but it also references Rene Magritte.” (You have seen the Belgian surrealist’s most famous painting: man in suit and tie, blue-sky backdrop, apple covering his face). The portrait was already a part of the gallery’s collection before the election. “We know Trump liked it, because he used it as the cover of his second book.” “Well, there he is,” a young woman said, pausing in front of the portrait and considering it with the discernment one gives to portraits of future leaders of the free world hanging in world-class art museums. “There he is,” she said again. “The future A-hole-in-chief.” “What are we all looking at?” a man asked as he strolled past the portrait with his wife. “Oh heavens, no, starting in a week, I’ll already be stuck with him for four years.” Starting in a week, Trump’s photograph will be displayed in federal buildings all over the country, as is customary. This portrait was an early chance for Washington to grow accustomed to seeing a new, literal face of power. One middle-aged man in a knit cap paused in front to take a photo: himself, in front of Trump, hand extended in a “thumbs-down” gesture. The man introduced himself as a refu­gee who left the former Soviet Union more than 20 years ago. He feared for America. He feared for America, because he thought he saw patterns he’d seen in his own totalitarian regime, and that his adopted country’s citizens weren’t ready for it. “You’ll learn to be subversive,” he said. “You’ll learn to speak in code.” But in the end, he said, everything would turn out all right. “It’s like a fire that will burn through and leave only diamonds.” The former Soviet refu­gee hurried past the portrait and was replaced by a young, heavyset man in glasses, who stood quietly in front of the photograph for several seconds while shaking his head back and forth. “Betcha he didn’t even catch that apple,” the man said finally, and walked away.



Students from Walker Grant Middle School in Fredericksburg, Va., check out a portrait of Donald Trump newly on display at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. (Bonnie Jo Mount/The Washington Post)

On Friday morning, the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery did what it’s always done before the inauguration of a new president and revealed a portrait of the man in question. So the public did what it’s always done, and came to see it.

“Why is he tossing an apple?” asked a woman strolling through with two friends.

“Because it’s the Big Apple,” one friend replied.

The first woman said that she liked the inclusion of the apple. “I’m a dietitian, so that’s good.”

This artwork in question: not, alas, a surprise reappearance of the six-foot-tall painting that Donald Trump bought with his charity’s money and which then went AWOL (Have you seen it? Send tips!), but rather a 1989 studio photograph by the photographer Michael O’Brien. Trump, in a suit and tie, stands against a blue sky backdrop, an apple tossed from his hand hanging in midair.

The portrait is temporary. It will hang in its spot on the first floor until the end of February. It’s not an official presidential depiction — those aren’t commissioned until the end of a presidential term, and they join the official gallery upstairs only after the pol has left the White House.

“It’s very witty, and we think a good representation,” said David Ward, the museum’s chief historian who was on hand to answer questions about the artwork. “It’s simultaneously a respectful portrait, but it also references Rene Magritte.” (You have seen the Belgian surrealist’s most famous painting: man in suit and tie, blue-sky backdrop, apple covering his face). The portrait was already a part of the gallery’s collection before the election. “We know Trump liked it, because he used it as the cover of his second book.”

“Well, there he is,” a young woman said, pausing in front of the portrait and considering it with the discernment one gives to portraits of future leaders of the free world hanging in world-class art museums. “There he is,” she said again. “The future A-hole-in-chief.”

“What are we all looking at?” a man asked as he strolled past the portrait with his wife. “Oh heavens, no, starting in a week, I’ll already be stuck with him for four years.”

Starting in a week, Trump’s photograph will be displayed in federal buildings all over the country, as is customary. This portrait was an early chance for Washington to grow accustomed to seeing a new, literal face of power.

One middle-aged man in a knit cap paused in front to take a photo: himself, in front of Trump, hand extended in a “thumbs-down” gesture. The man introduced himself as a refu­gee who left the former Soviet Union more than 20 years ago. He feared for America. He feared for America, because he thought he saw patterns he’d seen in his own totalitarian regime, and that his adopted country’s citizens weren’t ready for it.

“You’ll learn to be subversive,” he said. “You’ll learn to speak in code.” But in the end, he said, everything would turn out all right. “It’s like a fire that will burn through and leave only diamonds.”

The former Soviet refu­gee hurried past the portrait and was replaced by a young, heavyset man in glasses, who stood quietly in front of the photograph for several seconds while shaking his head back and forth.

“Betcha he didn’t even catch that apple,” the man said finally, and walked away.