Americans Think Obama, Kennedy, Reagan Gave Best Inaugural Addresses
Americans Think Obama, Kennedy, Reagan Gave Best Inaugural Speeches
Shares               President-elect Donald Trump is reportedly drawing inspiration for the first draft of his inaugural speech from presidents John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan -- which may serve him well with the American people who believe those presidents' inaugural addresses were among the best. Together with our partners at SSRS survey research firm, we asked Americans which U.S. president has given the best inaugural speech. The top choice among respondents was outgoing President Barack Obama, followed by presidents John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan. Asked if they plan to tune in to watch Trump's inaugural address on Friday, Jan. 20, forty-one percent of Americans said no, 38 percent said yes and 21 percent said they are unsure if they will watch. Americans are also divided on how they feel about Trump's taking office. Asked what one word best describes how they feel about the upcoming inauguration, respondents said "excited," "hopeful," "scared" and "sad."  Shares                  Americans Think Obama, Kennedy, Reagan Gave Best Inaugural Speeches   Pence May Have to Break Tie in DeVos Confirmation Vote Today   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   The Note: The Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Comparing US to Putin's Russia Draws Bipartisan Backlash   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court

President-elect Donald Trump is reportedly drawing inspiration for the first draft of his inaugural speech from presidents John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan -- which may serve him well with the American people who believe those presidents' inaugural addresses were among the best.

Together with our partners at SSRS survey research firm, we asked Americans which U.S. president has given the best inaugural speech. The top choice among respondents was outgoing President Barack Obama, followed by presidents John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan.

Asked if they plan to tune in to watch Trump's inaugural address on Friday, Jan. 20, forty-one percent of Americans said no, 38 percent said yes and 21 percent said they are unsure if they will watch.

Americans are also divided on how they feel about Trump's taking office. Asked what one word best describes how they feel about the upcoming inauguration, respondents said "excited," "hopeful," "scared" and "sad."

The ABC News/SSRS Poll was conducted using the SSRS Probability Panel. Interviews were conducted online from January 12 – January 13, 2017 among a nationally representative sample of 267 respondents age 18 and older. The margin of error for total respondents is +/-7.7% at the 95% confidence level. Design effect is 1.63. The SSRS Probability Panel is a probability-based, online panel of adults recruited from random digit dialed landline and cell phone numbers. For more information, visit http://ssrs.com/abc-news-ssrs-opinion-poll-week-fifteen-topline/