Martin Luther King Jr: A Life in Pictures Photos



The Rev. Martin Luther King, at the time the director of the bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, with Rosa Parks, Jan. 27, 1956. Don Cravens/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., sits for his for police mugshot, after his arrest for directing a city-wide boycott of segregated buses, Feb. 24, 1956, in Montgomery, Alabama. Don Cravens/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images

Civil rights leader the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. relaxes at home with his wife Coretta and first child, Yolanda, May 1956, in Montgomery, Alabama. Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images

Police officers push Martin Luther King Jr. across a police desk as he is booked for loitering in Montgomery, Alabama, Sept. 3, 1958. His wife, fellow activist and civil rights leader Coretta Scott King, watches. Charles Moore/Getty Images

Dr. Emil A. Naclerio stands at the bedside of the Rev. Martin Luther King in Harlem Hospital in New York, after a three hour operation to remove a knife from his chest, Sept. 20, 1958. Bettmann Archive/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. speaks with a group of schoolgirls, January 1960. Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images

American religious and civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr delivers a speech at the Gillfield Baptist Church, in Petersburg, Virginia, May 1960. Howard Sochurek/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images

After Martin Luther King Jr. on his release from a Georgia prison after leading boycotts. He is greeted by his wife Coretta Scott King and children Marty and Yoki, at the airport in Chamblee, Georgia, Oct. 1, 1960. Bettmann Archive/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. after encountering a white mob protesting against the Freedom Riders in Montgomery, Alabama, May 26, 1961. Express Newspapers/Getty Images

After being arrested during a civil rights march, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. waits in the chief of police's office in Albany, Georgia, Dec. 16, 1961. Bettmann Archive/Getty Images

The Rev. Ralph Abernathy and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. sitting on a church bench during the Freedom Rider crisis in May 1961. Paul Schutzer/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images

Walk to Freedom marchers, including Martin Luther King Jr., center, and Detroit Mayor Jerome P. Cavanaugh, march for racial equality, Detroit, June 1, 1963. Francis Miller/Time & Life Pictures/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. and other leaders at the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington, Aug. 28, 1963. PhotoQuest/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. addresses marchers during his "I Have a Dream" speech at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, Aug. 28, 1963. AP Photo

Martin Luther King Jr. waves to supporters from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial Aug. 28, 1963, during the March on Washington. AFP/Getty Images

American civil rights campaigner Martin Luther King Jr. in 1964. Reg Lancaster/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. waves with his children Yolanda and Martin Luther III from the Magic Skyway ride at the World's Fair, New York, Aug. 12, 1964. Hulton Archive/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. (center left), with John Lewis (second from left) of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, the Rev. Ralph Abernathy (third from left), Ralph Bunche (fifth from left), and Coretta Scott King (center right), arrive in Montgomery, Alabama. They led an estimated 10,000 or more civil rights demonstrators on the last leg of a Selma-to-Montgomery march, March 25, 1965. Bettmann Archive/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King during the Selma-to-Montgomery march, held in support of voter rights, March 1965. With them are the Rev. Ralph Abernathy (second from left) and Pulitzer Prize–winning scientist Ralph Bunche. Robert Abbott Sengstacke/Getty Images

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. makes a speech at a church in Selma, Alabama, March 27, 1965. AFP/Getty Images

President Lyndon B. Johnson hands a pen to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. after signing the Voting Rights Act, in Washington, Aug. 6, 1965. Washington Bureau/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. speaks in New York, Oct. 16, 1965. Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., with Dr. Benjamin Spock (center left), Father Frederick Reed (center right) and union leader Cleveland Robinson (second from right), March 16, 1967, during a demonstration against the Vietnam War, in New York. AFP/Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr., after being fatally shot on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, with Ralph Abernathy, Jesse Jackson and others, April 4, 1968. Joseph Louw/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images

Former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy walks through the streets with civil rights activist Bernard Lee during the funeral procession of Martin Luther King Jr., April 9, 1968, in Atlanta. Hulton Archive/Getty Images

From left, the Rev. Martin Luther King Sr.; Alberta King, the mother of Martin Luther King Jr.; and Coretta Scott King during a memorial service at Morehouse College, April 9, 1968, in Atlanta. New York Times Co./Getty Images

Mourners follow the casket of Martin Luther King Jr. through the streets of Atlanta. Hulton Archive/Getty Images

President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama before he speaks at the dedication of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial, Oct. 16, 2011, in Washington. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images