Amazon's New Credit Card Primed To Disrupt Retail
Amazon's New Credit Card Primed To Disrupt Retail
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Continued from page 1 Like Amazon Prime’s free shipping benefit, Amazon’s strategy with the generous 5% cash back is to make consumers make Amazon their default retailer for virtually all their shopping needs. Since Amazon sells such a wide variety of products ranging from food to electronics, that means consumers can earn 5% cash back on virtually everything – which is more favorable for Amazon Prime cardholders compared with other retail-specific cards. If you are a Prime member, use Amazon regularly for your shopping needs and are searching for a credit card with generous cash back and other benefits, then Amazon’s new credit card is an attractive option.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Continued from page 1

Like Amazon Prime’s free shipping benefit, Amazon’s strategy with the generous 5% cash back is to make consumers make Amazon their default retailer for virtually all their shopping needs. Since Amazon sells such a wide variety of products ranging from food to electronics, that means consumers can earn 5% cash back on virtually everything – which is more favorable for Amazon Prime cardholders compared with other retail-specific cards.

Should You Get This Card?

If you are a Prime member, use Amazon regularly for your shopping needs and are searching for a credit card with generous cash back and other benefits, then Amazon’s new credit card is an attractive option.

What do you think of Amazon’s new credit card? Would you sign up or are there better credit cards that you prefer? Will Amazon’s move impact American Express? Share your perspectives in the comment section below.

Zack Friedman is the founder of Make Lemonade, a personal finance website that offers free and independent financial tips and tools to help save you money on your student loans, personal loans, investment accounts and more. Follow Zack on Twitter and read his columns in Forbes.