Indian man colects more than 50kgs of nails scattered over a road by tyre repair companies
Indian man collects 50 kilograms of nails scattered over a busy road


An Indian engineer has spent the past five years collecting more than 50 kilograms of rusty nails scattered across a busy commuter road allegedly by nearby tyre repair companies trying to drum up business.

Diligent Benedict Jebakumar started his mission in 2012 after repeatedly suffering from punctured tyres while driving along the outer ring road from his home in Bangalore to work.

'It has become a menace to society,' he told local media.

Benedict Jebakumar has spent the past five years collecting nails he finds scattered on a busy commuter road in Bangalore

'I have been witnessing the willful act of repeated scattering of nails on the outer ring road in Bangalore since 2012,' Mr Jebakumar said in an online petition to Bangalore City Police.

'This is done by the miscreants to make money out of fixing the flat tyre caused by their nails at an exorbitant rates. I have been informing the concerned authorities for remedial action but the problem still persists.'

Mr Jebakumar would at first painstakingly pick up every nail he could see by hand, starting at 7am every morning and returning again after work.

However, the systems engineer, 44, has now devised a magnetic foldable fishing rod that allows him to scoop up the nails in a more timely fashion.

Mr Jebakumar weighs the nails he collects from the side of the ring road and documents it on social media

The sharp metal objects come in all shapes and sizes but the diligent engineer collects as many as he can every day

Pictured is an example of one of the nails that causes punctures to commuters on the busy road

He has documented his alarming haul via a Facebook page called My Road, My Responsibility in a bid to get more people to report the problem to the local authorities.

He shares daily photos of his nail collections being weighed on scales.

In 2015, he told The News Minute that in three years nobody had ever approached him to ask about it what he was doing.

'It is such a fast-paced world that nobody has even observed that there is man wandering about a busy main road in search of something. They have not even noticed that these nails are potential threats to their vehicles,' he said.

Mr Jebakumar no longer drives his car to work, instead opting for a bike which has greatly reduced the number of punctures he has encountered.