Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry says he OK with being fourth-highest paid player on team
Curry: I'm OK with being 4th-highest paid Warrior
Curry: I'm OK with being 4th-highest paid Warrior LeBron James defies a long history of misses Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Shumpert suffers ankle sprain early in Cavs' win LeBron James defies a long history of misses Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kerr fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Rodman gets 3 years' probation in freeway crash Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment OAKLAND, Calif. -- Stephen Curry , the two-time MVP, told the Mercury News in a podcast it doesn't bother him that he's the fourth-highest paid player on the Golden State Warriors . "One thing my pops always told me is you never count another man's money," Curry said. "It's what you've got and how you take care of it. And if I'm complaining about $44 million over four years, then I've got other issues in my life." "One thing my pops always told me is you never count another man's money. It's what you've got and how you take care of it. And if I'm complaining about $44 million over four years, then I've got other issues in my life." Stephen Curry Klay Thompson , Draymond Green and Kevin Durant all earn more than Curry. Curry and the Warriors agreed to a four-year, $44 million extension in 2012. He wasn't the player he is today and he was hampered by nagging injuries. But he'll most certainly have an opportunity to play for what he's worth when he becomes an unrestricted free agent at the end of this season. Golden State can offer him a five-year deal for about $210 million. Other suitors can present only a four-year pact at approximately $140 million. It will pay to stay and Curry said as of now, he can't envision himself relocating next summer. "I can't," Curry said. "Like I've said from Day 1, when I was first asked about free agency, this is a perfect place to play. Bay Area fans are amazing, our organization's amazing, we've put together an amazing team that's competing for championships every year. ... There's really no reason that I can see right now that would draw me elsewhere." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

OAKLAND, Calif. -- Stephen Curry, the two-time MVP, told the Mercury News in a podcast it doesn't bother him that he's the fourth-highest paid player on the Golden State Warriors.

"One thing my pops always told me is you never count another man's money," Curry said. "It's what you've got and how you take care of it. And if I'm complaining about $44 million over four years, then I've got other issues in my life."

"One thing my pops always told me is you never count another man's money. It's what you've got and how you take care of it. And if I'm complaining about $44 million over four years, then I've got other issues in my life." Stephen Curry

Klay Thompson, Draymond Green and Kevin Durant all earn more than Curry.

Curry and the Warriors agreed to a four-year, $44 million extension in 2012. He wasn't the player he is today and he was hampered by nagging injuries.

But he'll most certainly have an opportunity to play for what he's worth when he becomes an unrestricted free agent at the end of this season.

Editor's Picks Warriors need to blunt Cavs’ growing mental edge in rivalry Between the lost 3-1 lead, a Christmas Day defeat and that Halloween party prop, the Warriors should have plenty to fuel them Monday against the Cavs.

Golden State can offer him a five-year deal for about $210 million. Other suitors can present only a four-year pact at approximately $140 million.

It will pay to stay and Curry said as of now, he can't envision himself relocating next summer.

"I can't," Curry said. "Like I've said from Day 1, when I was first asked about free agency, this is a perfect place to play. Bay Area fans are amazing, our organization's amazing, we've put together an amazing team that's competing for championships every year. ... There's really no reason that I can see right now that would draw me elsewhere."