Police investigate shooting near primary school in Glasgow as reports of gunfire spark panic
Police investigate shooting near primary school in Glasgow as reports of gunfire spark panic
olice are investigating a shooting that took place near a primary school in Glasgow just after parents dropped their children off. Worried relatives took to social media to question if their children were safe after reports of a firearm being discharged near St George's Primary school in Penilee shortly after 9am. Armed police rushed to the scene, but said there was no threat to any of the children or staff. All pupils and staff are safe at St George's Primary, Penilee. Police dealing with an incident which happened outside school grounds.  Police Scotland spokesman said: "Around 9.05am police received a report of a firearm being discharged in the Penilee area of Glasgow. "Extensive enquiries are ongoing to establish the exact circumstances. Additional police patrols are in the area to provide public reassurance. "It has been reported that the incident occurred outside a primary school in Muirdyke Rd, Penilee. Police officers are currently at the school and there is no threat to any of the children or staff within the school." hief Inspector Simon Jeacocke described the incident as "highly unusual" and said it was understandable people were "very alarmed". "We do believe it was a targeted attack but nonetheless this took place near to a local primary school at the start of the school day, when the area was busy with parents dropping off their children," he said. "Although it would appear that there was an intended victim, anyone could have been injured as a result, putting young children and innocent people at risk." s news of the incident emerged, relatives took to social media in a desperate bid to find out what was happening. One woman wrote: "This true? Is it St. George's? Sorry trying to find out for my mum as helicopters/police cars everywhere and she panicking." Another man said he knew parents who had taken their children out of school due to ongoing concerns. We are aware of a firearms incident in Penilee this morning. We do not believe there is any ongoing threat to any other person. lthough initial reports suggested the school was on lockdown, Glasgow City Council said that police were present and lessons were carrying on as normal. A spokesman for the council added on Twitter: "All pupils and staff are safe at St George's Primary, Penilee. Police dealing with an incident which happened outside school grounds." The school issued the same statement via its Twitter account.

Police are investigating a shooting that took place near a primary school in Glasgow just after parents dropped their children off.

Worried relatives took to social media to question if their children were safe after reports of a firearm being discharged near St George's Primary school in Penilee shortly after 9am.

Armed police rushed to the scene, but said there was no threat to any of the children or staff.