Here's Why 2017 Could Be The Best Year In Wall Street History
Here's Why 2017 Could Be The Best Year In Wall Street History
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Antoine Gara       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Bank stocks have surged nearly 30% since Election Day as investors position for a mix of higher interest rates, stronger growth, and a rollback of some crisis-era regulations under President-elect Donald Trump. These expectations are now being priced into the shares of Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, which sit at record highs, as well as recovering firms such as Morgan Stanley and Bank of America. Goldman Sachs is up 35% since Election Day, as is BofA. Morgan Stanley has surged 28% and JPMorgan has gained 25%. All of these stocks have been fueled by a move in the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield to 2.37% from 1.8% that is expected to improve banks' interest income. But now what? After a bumper rally some analysts are advocating caution. Citigroup’s Keith Horowitz recently downgraded Goldman Sachs, arguing the stock had run too far. Financials have also bridged a wide stock market discount, according to an analysis from Keefe Bruyette & Woods, and now trade at only a slightly lower multiple than the S&P 500. Perhaps a breather is warranted. However, those concerned over the swiftness of the rally may be missing the bigger picture. With banks widely expected to report strengthening fourth quarter-earnings, there’s a case 2017 will be the most profitable year in Wall Street’s history.  Inside Wall Street's Latest Boom Of Lending Half A Trillion Dollars To the Ultrarich Goldman Sachs Group Inc. signage is displayed on a monitor on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg Here’s the big bull case for Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan and BofA after the Trump-rally: Even in a muted growth environment these banks have never been more profitable. And investors are still trying to figure out how much money they can make in an accelerating economy where inflation is setting in. First some numbers. On paper Goldman’s record profits came a decade ago. After all, the bank earned a $11.4 billion profit, or $24.73 a share, on an eye-popping return on equity of 31% in 2007. So why get excited about the $8 billion profit and $18.30 a share in EPS Goldman is forecast to earn in 2017, or its 9.5% RoE? The truth is Goldman’s bumper 2007 profits, fueled by astronomical leverage and an epic credit bubble, were a mirage. When the market soured in 2008, Goldman and its ilk reported record quarterly losses. The crisis felled competitors like Lehman and Bear Stearns, Merrill was taken over, and BofA and Citigroup required massive government bailouts. Bubble-era financial results simply aren’t a good bar for valuing banks or assessing their performance. Without that comparison, firms are actually doing very well. Goldman is forecast to earn $2.6 billion, or $4.78 a share in the fourth quarter, its biggest profit in seven quarters, and expectations are similar for Morgan Stanley. These earnings are fueled by improving revenues due to rising trading activity and the benefit of higher rates. But they’re anchored by years of focus on the bottom line as firms learned how to live without leverage. In the case of Goldman, it meant reining in compensation and buying back the firm's stock at it limped along at book value. At a 2006 peak, Goldman’s compensation-to-revenue ratio was nearly 50%. In the third quarter it was 41%. Meanwhile, the firm’s diluted share count hit a record low last quarter and it is forecast to dip below 400 million diluted shares outstanding in 2018, according to forecasts from Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg. Furthermore, Goldman’s shareholder equity is up 75% from 2007, and its total assets are down over 20%, meaning the firm’s leverage has been cut dramatically. But profits are expected to be strong despite the shrinking -- In 2018 Goldman is forecast to earn $20 a share in EPS on $8.1 billion in net income, according to Barclays forecasts. Similar stories hold true across Wall Street. Morgan Stanley is forecast to earn $7 billion by the end of 2018 and its EPS is poised to hit $3.70, closing in on a pre-crisis peak. But the composition of Morgan Stanley’s earnings is dramatically changed. Instead of an out-sized fixed income trading business, the firm now boasts a $2 trillion wealth management arm that brings in steady profits. JPMorgan’s fourth quarter-earnings will be pressured by a bumper credit card growth initiative, but the firm is expected to reach new record highs in revenues and profits by the end of 2017. Bets on the eventually recovery of Bank of America by billionaires like Warren Buffett and John Paulson are paying off. Citigroup perhaps faces the cloudiest outlook due to its sprawling international operations and heavy exposure to the uncertain Mexican economy. The big bull story is surprisingly simple: Goldman’s shares last peaked well above $230 a share in 2007 when it was on track to generate $24 a share in EPS, arguably a mirage. Now with Goldman trading at $245 a share and giant pools of risk taken out of the bank, the $20 in EPS analysts forecast for 2018 may be a far better bet for investors. Fourth quarter-earnings are worth a close read. It’s not just the balance sheets and expenses that have changed since the crisis. The competitive landscape for Wall Street’s establishment has rarely seemed more favorable due to the retrenchment of European and Asian firms. “We are probably in the best position in the 26 years since I have been here,” said former Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn when leaving the bank for the Trump administration. “Anytime we went to pitch a new piece of business there were 20-plus well capitalized competitors out there,” Cohn said, but that's changed. Some dormant parts of Wall Street like fixed income swaps businesses may revive as the Federal Reserve begins a cycle of hiking rates, which causes macro funds to make new trades and corporations to bolster their hedges. Yet, it’s too be seen how potent these operations are. Then there’s regulatory relief. Since 2009 banks have paid out $233 billion in fines to regulators like the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission, according to an analysis by KBW. Now, many expect the emphasis on sanctions to fade under Trump. Relief from the specter of multi-billion dollar fines will give greater visibility into banks’ earnings and their plans to return investor capital. There are other prospective earnings tailwinds ranging from tax reform, to a loosening of capital requirements and a rethink of restrictions like the Volcker Rule. There’s good reason to believe the bank stock rally will persist. Investors got wind of how undervalued bank shares were in the fourth quarter. Now the big question for 2017 is just how profitable these banks can be. World's 25 Biggest Banks In 2016 How ValueAct Made 65% On Boring Morgan Stanley In A Matter Of Months A Lack Of Discipline On Bonuses Could Spoil The Bank Stock Rally Deutsche Bank Shakeup Means It's Never Been Better For Goldman, JPMorgan The Bet On BofA's TARP Warrants Pays Off    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Bank stocks have surged nearly 30% since Election Day as investors position for a mix of higher interest rates, stronger growth, and a rollback of some crisis-era regulations under President-elect Donald Trump. These expectations are now being priced into the shares of Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, which sit at record highs, as well as recovering firms such as Morgan Stanley and Bank of America.

Goldman Sachs is up 35% since Election Day, as is BofA. Morgan Stanley has surged 28% and JPMorgan has gained 25%. All of these stocks have been fueled by a move in the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield to 2.37% from 1.8% that is expected to improve banks' interest income. But now what? After a bumper rally some analysts are advocating caution.

Citigroup’s Keith Horowitz recently downgraded Goldman Sachs, arguing the stock had run too far. Financials have also bridged a wide stock market discount, according to an analysis from Keefe Bruyette & Woods, and now trade at only a slightly lower multiple than the S&P 500. Perhaps a breather is warranted. However, those concerned over the swiftness of the rally may be missing the bigger picture. With banks widely expected to report strengthening fourth quarter-earnings, there’s a case 2017 will be the most profitable year in Wall Street’s history.

Read More: Inside Wall Street's Latest Boom Of Lending Half A Trillion Dollars To the Ultrarich

Here’s the big bull case for Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan and BofA after the Trump-rally: Even in a muted growth environment these banks have never been more profitable. And investors are still trying to figure out how much money they can make in an accelerating economy where inflation is setting in.

First some numbers. On paper Goldman’s record profits came a decade ago. After all, the bank earned a $11.4 billion profit, or $24.73 a share, on an eye-popping return on equity of 31% in 2007. So why get excited about the $8 billion profit and $18.30 a share in EPS Goldman is forecast to earn in 2017, or its 9.5% RoE? The truth is Goldman’s bumper 2007 profits, fueled by astronomical leverage and an epic credit bubble, were a mirage.

When the market soured in 2008, Goldman and its ilk reported record quarterly losses. The crisis felled competitors like Lehman and Bear Stearns, Merrill was taken over, and BofA and Citigroup required massive government bailouts. Bubble-era financial results simply aren’t a good bar for valuing banks or assessing their performance. Without that comparison, firms are actually doing very well.

Goldman is forecast to earn $2.6 billion, or $4.78 a share in the fourth quarter, its biggest profit in seven quarters, and expectations are similar for Morgan Stanley. These earnings are fueled by improving revenues due to rising trading activity and the benefit of higher rates. But they’re anchored by years of focus on the bottom line as firms learned how to live without leverage. In the case of Goldman, it meant reining in compensation and buying back the firm's stock at it limped along at book value.

At a 2006 peak, Goldman’s compensation-to-revenue ratio was nearly 50%. In the third quarter it was 41%. Meanwhile, the firm’s diluted share count hit a record low last quarter and it is forecast to dip below 400 million diluted shares outstanding in 2018, according to forecasts from Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg. Furthermore, Goldman’s shareholder equity is up 75% from 2007, and its total assets are down over 20%, meaning the firm’s leverage has been cut dramatically. But profits are expected to be strong despite the shrinking -- In 2018 Goldman is forecast to earn $20 a share in EPS on $8.1 billion in net income, according to Barclays forecasts.

Similar stories hold true across Wall Street. Morgan Stanley is forecast to earn $7 billion by the end of 2018 and its EPS is poised to hit $3.70, closing in on a pre-crisis peak. But the composition of Morgan Stanley’s earnings is dramatically changed. Instead of an out-sized fixed income trading business, the firm now boasts a $2 trillion wealth management arm that brings in steady profits.

JPMorgan’s fourth quarter-earnings will be pressured by a bumper credit card growth initiative, but the firm is expected to reach new record highs in revenues and profits by the end of 2017. Bets on the eventually recovery of Bank of America by billionaires like Warren Buffett and John Paulson are paying off. Citigroup perhaps faces the cloudiest outlook due to its sprawling international operations and heavy exposure to the uncertain Mexican economy.

The big bull story is surprisingly simple: Goldman’s shares last peaked well above $230 a share in 2007 when it was on track to generate $24 a share in EPS, arguably a mirage. Now with Goldman trading at $245 a share and giant pools of risk taken out of the bank, the $20 in EPS analysts forecast for 2018 may be a far better bet for investors.

Fourth quarter-earnings are worth a close read. It’s not just the balance sheets and expenses that have changed since the crisis. The competitive landscape for Wall Street’s establishment has rarely seemed more favorable due to the retrenchment of European and Asian firms.

“We are probably in the best position in the 26 years since I have been here,” said former Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn when leaving the bank for the Trump administration. “Anytime we went to pitch a new piece of business there were 20-plus well capitalized competitors out there,” Cohn said, but that's changed.

Some dormant parts of Wall Street like fixed income swaps businesses may revive as the Federal Reserve begins a cycle of hiking rates, which causes macro funds to make new trades and corporations to bolster their hedges. Yet, it’s too be seen how potent these operations are.

Then there’s regulatory relief. Since 2009 banks have paid out $233 billion in fines to regulators like the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission, according to an analysis by KBW. Now, many expect the emphasis on sanctions to fade under Trump. Relief from the specter of multi-billion dollar fines will give greater visibility into banks’ earnings and their plans to return investor capital. There are other prospective earnings tailwinds ranging from tax reform, to a loosening of capital requirements and a rethink of restrictions like the Volcker Rule.

Bottom Line: There’s good reason to believe the bank stock rally will persist. Investors got wind of how undervalued bank shares were in the fourth quarter. Now the big question for 2017 is just how profitable these banks can be.

For More Forbes coverage:

How ValueAct Made 65% On Boring Morgan Stanley In A Matter Of Months

A Lack Of Discipline On Bonuses Could Spoil The Bank Stock Rally

Deutsche Bank Shakeup Means It's Never Been Better For Goldman, JPMorgan

The Bet On BofA's TARP Warrants Pays Off