5-Year-Old Loses Part Of Her Finger In An Accident In School, 300 Parents Storm Premises
5-Year-Old Loses Part Of Her Finger In An Accident In School, 300 Parents Storm Premises
5-Year-Old Loses Part Of Her Finger In An Accident In School, 300 Parents Storm Premises The Indian education system is in complete shambles. Jeevika Mistry, a 5-year-old student of Thakur International School, Kandivli, lost a part of her finger in an accident in school. Jeevika was going from one class to another when her left hand got jammed in a door.  A part of her finger got cut in this, and she was rushed to the school's medical room. The school authorities then informed the parents about it and asked them to come to the school as soon as possible. (Also read: Kashmir Schools Keep Denying This 6-Year-Old Boy Admission - Because He Is Differently-Abled ) Even though everything seems about right till now, here's the real problem. The school authorities didn't take the kid to the hospital even though she was bleeding profusely. They didn't even inform the parents about the enormity of the issue An exhausted Jeevika had been bleeding for more than 30 mins. Read the full post here: Following the incident, more than 300 parents stormed the school premises. They refused to take admission to the next academic year and also boycotted the sports day rehearsal. The school's trustee then assured parents that precaution would be taken to avoid such incidents and that the school would seek an undertaking at the beginning of the year to rush children to hospital in an emergency. (Also read: School Van Driver Held For Raping Minor Girls In His Car For Over 6 Months ) The school's principal, Penelope Miranda, resigned on Wednesday following the incident. The school management has accepted the resignation.

The Indian education system is in complete shambles.

Jeevika Mistry, a 5-year-old student of Thakur International School, Kandivli, lost a part of her finger in an accident in school. Jeevika was going from one class to another when her left hand got jammed in a door. A part of her finger got cut in this, and she was rushed to the school's medical room.

The school authorities then informed the parents about it and asked them to come to the school as soon as possible.

(Also read: Kashmir Schools Keep Denying This 6-Year-Old Boy Admission - Because He Is Differently-Abled)

Even though everything seems about right till now, here's the real problem. The school authorities didn't take the kid to the hospital even though she was bleeding profusely.

They didn't even inform the parents about the enormity of the issue

An exhausted Jeevika had been bleeding for more than 30 mins.

Read the full post here:

Following the incident, more than 300 parents stormed the school premises. They refused to take admission to the next academic year and also boycotted the sports day rehearsal.

The school's trustee then assured parents that precaution would be taken to avoid such incidents and that the school would seek an undertaking at the beginning of the year to rush children to hospital in an emergency.

(Also read: School Van Driver Held For Raping Minor Girls In His Car For Over 6 Months)

The school's principal, Penelope Miranda, resigned on Wednesday following the incident. The school management has accepted the resignation.