'Repealing And Replacing' Obamacare: Whatever You Do, Preserve Medicare Part D And Fill The Donut Hole
'Repealing And Replacing' Obamacare: Whatever You Do, Preserve Medicare Part D And Fill The Donut Hole
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  John Osborn       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. With President-elect Trump complaining about the pharmaceutical industry "getting away with murder" (whatever that means), and Republicans firmly in control of the Congress, there is little doubt that President Obama’s signature domestic accomplishment–the Affordable Care Act–will be modified in the early days of the new administration. But will there be repeal and delay, as most Congressional Republicans seem to favor, or a concurrent vote on a new healthcare plan that will effectively replace the ACA? Will any of the core features of Obamacare, including subsidized healthcare exchanges, Medicaid expansion, individual and small business coverage mandates, and healthcare industry fees, survive this process? U.S. President-elect Donald Trump answers journalists' questions during a press conference on January 11, 2017 in New York. (DON EMMERT/AFP/Getty Images) The ACA is a complicated, multi-faceted law. It is not going to be easy to pick and choose some elements while leaving out others, buffet-style. Let’s see: I would like to have the pre-existing conditions coverage clause, but pass on the insurance purchase requirements . . . in the end, you cannot repeal the laws of economics, and the insurance industry will let us know whether the replacement works under their prevailing risk and expense models. With that said, there has been very little focus on how the repeal and replace initiative might affect the Medicare program. Medicare coverage is among the hottest of the scalding hot political buttons, as the program ranks toward the top of the most popular government entitlements and candidate Trump swore that he would not touch it. But as with many things in Washington, the devil lies in the details. Medicare coverage for the elderly was not the central focus of Obamacare, but Medicare and its Part D prescription drug coverage was altered by the ACA, and could well be affected by the upcoming legislative action. Medicare recipients applaud during a rally and news conference to mark the 46th anniversary of the passage of Medicare in the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center July 27, 2011 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) More than a decade ago, Congress addressed a major health policy problem: despite the largesse of Medicare hospitalization and physician care coverage for the elderly, seniors could not afford to pay for their prescription drugs. Indeed, it was commonplace to see retirees on television news shows claiming that they faced the unenviable choice of paying for either their prescriptions or their food.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By John Osborn and David Beier

With President-elect Trump complaining about the pharmaceutical industry "getting away with murder" (whatever that means), and Republicans firmly in control of the Congress, there is little doubt that President Obama’s signature domestic accomplishment–the Affordable Care Act–will be modified in the early days of the new administration.

But will there be repeal and delay, as most Congressional Republicans seem to favor, or a concurrent vote on a new healthcare plan that will effectively replace the ACA? Will any of the core features of Obamacare, including subsidized healthcare exchanges, Medicaid expansion, individual and small business coverage mandates, and healthcare industry fees, survive this process?

The ACA is a complicated, multi-faceted law. It is not going to be easy to pick and choose some elements while leaving out others, buffet-style. Let’s see: I would like to have the pre-existing conditions coverage clause, but pass on the insurance purchase requirements . . . in the end, you cannot repeal the laws of economics, and the insurance industry will let us know whether the replacement works under their prevailing risk and expense models.

With that said, there has been very little focus on how the repeal and replace initiative might affect the Medicare program. Medicare coverage is among the hottest of the scalding hot political buttons, as the program ranks toward the top of the most popular government entitlements and candidate Trump swore that he would not touch it. But as with many things in Washington, the devil lies in the details. Medicare coverage for the elderly was not the central focus of Obamacare, but Medicare and its Part D prescription drug coverage was altered by the ACA, and could well be affected by the upcoming legislative action.

More than a decade ago, Congress addressed a major health policy problem: despite the largesse of Medicare hospitalization and physician care coverage for the elderly, seniors could not afford to pay for their prescription drugs. Indeed, it was commonplace to see retirees on television news shows claiming that they faced the unenviable choice of paying for either their prescriptions or their food.