15 Mansplaining Stories That Mansplained So Fucking Hard
15 Mansplaining Stories That Mansplained So Fucking Hard
We asked the BuzzFeed Community to share the dumbest shit that’s been mansplained to them. These were the responses. Note: Submissions have been edited for length and/or clarity. The best date ever: I once had a date try to explain to me how to pronounce . — minhn4ab985964 The helpful man: A guy I work with tried to . — courtneyz2 The gynecologist: I told my then-boyfriend that I had originally been prescribed birth control pills to help with my unbearably painful cramps. , otherwise periods don’t hurt… OK. — lexaskru The coach: Once this guy . I mean, it’s not like I haven’t been playing hockey since I was 10. — supersammy The francophiles: I am French. As in born and raised there. I immigrated to the States when I was 30, and because I have barely a hint of an accent, it often does not register with other people that I am actually French, not just of French descent. . Except it’s not. So it always ends up with me telling them the story of how I got cancer when I was 8 years old, and how my parents paid nothing out of pocket for three years of treatment. —Adelaide McMillan, Facebook The IT guy: I work with a guy who comes to my desk at least three times a month asking if I know how to unlock a secure email. I say yes every single time and he is genuinely surprised every single time. —Angela Christine, Facebook The great explorer: Years ago a guy I dated said something about “lions and tigers in Africa.” I told him there aren’t tigers in Africa, unless they are in zoos. He didn’t even apologize; he said, “Well, I guess I was wrong then.” —Fredericka Turner, Facebook The jockey: I’ve been riding since I was 7, and the information was wrong. — katiem48c7261d3 The bathroom attendants: I’ve had so many men waiting for their wives outside of bathrooms explain to me how to use the locking button for the wheelchair bathroom. I told one guy that I had used it before and he only stopped talking to me when the door fully closed.  —Montana Fuge, Facebook The comic geek: My favorite mansplaining moment was on the bus. I have all these pretty hair clips that are flowers with nerd buttons in the middle. So I’m wearing my Deadpool flower on the bus, and this man taps me on the shoulder. And he’s smiling like he’s done me some kind of favor. So I told him which issue of was my favorite, why he’d probably love the random nature of his face in the middle of a flower that someone wears to corporate America, and why his explanation was both condescending and completely unneeded, all before he got off the bus. —Stevie Williams, Facebook The mouse whisperer: I am a herpetologist — I work with reptiles and amphibians — and recently I went to a pet store to buy some frozen mice for a captive snake. The man helping me asked me if I knew how to thaw frozen mice, and I said yes. I was wearing my wildlife service uniform and had already told him that I knew how! —Rachel King, Facebook The helpful hospital friend: My aunt was in ICU for three weeks and her brother-in-law came in. I am a pharmacist who did a monthlong rotation at that particular ICU. —Heather Dawn, Facebook The assistant seamstress: I work as a seamstress, and a customer’s husband kept trying to tell me how to pin a garment, explaining that he’s an engineer, so he just naturally knows how stuff works. I’ve been sewing for 10 years, but I’m sure an engineer knows more about it than I do. — stephanier71 The navigator: When I dropped my grandma off at the bus station, an attendant explained how to get to my destination. That destination was my own street, — sarahm184 The vagina expert: He kept insisting this as I, among other women, told him that was incorrect, and even continued to mansplain when I showed him a vulval diagram. The nerve of some mansplainers. —Elliot Gunderman, Facebook Want to be featured in more posts like this? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter .   Design A Makeup Look And We'll Tell You When You're...    Create A Valentine And We'll Tell You Which Celeb Will...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

10. The comic geek:

My favorite mansplaining moment was on the bus. I have all these pretty hair clips that are flowers with nerd buttons in the middle. So I’m wearing my Deadpool flower on the bus, and this man taps me on the shoulder. He proceeds to tell me, “I like your hair thing because it’s a comic book character, Deadpool. He’s not a hero, though, and I don’t think he would appreciate being on a flower.” And he’s smiling like he’s done me some kind of favor. So I told him which issue of Deadpool was my favorite, why he’d probably love the random nature of his face in the middle of a flower that someone wears to corporate America, and why his explanation was both condescending and completely unneeded, all before he got off the bus.

—Stevie Williams, Facebook