Nick Cannon on Ex Mariah Carey's New Year's Eve Flub: 'She Got a Little Flustered'
Nick Cannon on Ex Mariah Carey's New Year's Eve Flub: 'She Got a Little Flustered'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Nick Cannon on Ex Mariah Carey's New Year's Eve Flub: 'She Got a Little Flustered'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  "But being the diva she is, she said, I'm just going to walk around and pose for seven minutes," he joked of his ex-wife on 'The Ellen DeGeneres Show.' Nick Cannon says he believes ex-wife Mariah Carey got "a little flustered" during her now-infamous New Year's Eve performance. Carey made global headlines with her headlining set, which, leading up to midnight, went careening downhill as she got to “Emotions" and “We Belong Together." With the singer apparently unable to hear through her in-ear monitor, she removed it completely. Then, unable to follow the backing track over the noise of the crowd, Carey eventually abandoned singing and lip-syncing altogether as she became frustrated. In an interview set to air on Monday's , Cannon said that it was simply the nature of live TV.  "Anyone who knows about performing [knows that] things like that can go wrong on live television," he said. "I do live television all the time; I screw up on all the time, so when there are people in your ear saying things and stuff, I think she got a little flustered. But being the diva she is, she said, I'm just going to walk around and pose for seven minutes. And like Ryan Seacrest says, she can do no wrong. So she worked through it." DeGeneres and Cannon also joked that people in the Times Square crowd didn't seem to mind. "They were like, 'She's amazing, and her lips aren't even moving'," he quipped. The singer has blamed the production team for her flub, but Cannon joked that he has a conspiracy theory that the government is to blame: "They set her up; that was a distraction." Cannon also talks about why he's taken to wearing a turban ("I feel royal, mixed with Mommy Dearest," he quipped) and the impending arrival of his new baby, revealing that he's having a boy. Watch the interview below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mariah Carey and actor/TV personality Â Nick Cannon arrive at the 20th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium on January 18, 2014 in Los Angeles, California.Â

"But being the diva she is, she said, I'm just going to walk around and pose for seven minutes," he joked of his ex-wife on 'The Ellen DeGeneres Show.'

Nick Cannon says he believes ex-wife Mariah Carey got "a little flustered" during her now-infamous New Year's Eve performance.

Carey made global headlines with her Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve With Ryan Seacrest headlining set, which, leading up to midnight, went careening downhill as she got to “Emotions" and “We Belong Together." With the singer apparently unable to hear through her in-ear monitor, she removed it completely. Then, unable to follow the backing track over the noise of the crowd, Carey eventually abandoned singing and lip-syncing altogether as she became frustrated.

In an interview set to air on Monday's The Ellen DeGeneres Show, Cannon said that it was simply the nature of live TV.

"Anyone who knows about performing [knows that] things like that can go wrong on live television," he said. "I do live television all the time; I screw up on America's Got Talent all the time, so when there are people in your ear saying things and stuff, I think she got a little flustered. But being the diva she is, she said, I'm just going to walk around and pose for seven minutes. And like Ryan Seacrest says, she can do no wrong. So she worked through it."

DeGeneres and Cannon also joked that people in the Times Square crowd didn't seem to mind. "They were like, 'She's amazing, and her lips aren't even moving'," he quipped.

The singer has blamed the production team for her flub, but Cannon joked that he has a conspiracy theory that the government is to blame: "They set her up; that was a distraction."

Cannon also talks about why he's taken to wearing a turban ("I feel royal, mixed with Mommy Dearest," he quipped) and the impending arrival of his new baby, revealing that he's having a boy. Watch the interview below.

This article originally appeared on The Hollywood Reporter.