49ers Head Coach Search: Latest News, Rumors, Speculation on Position
49ers Head Coach Search: Latest News, Rumors, Speculation on Position
The San Francisco 49ers have compiled a list of potential replacements for former head coach Chip Kelly, who finished with a 2-14 record during his lone season with the franchise, and now it appears as though they have narrowed the search down to one. Continue for updates. 9ers CEO Jed York and vice president Paraag Marathe on Friday in Atlanta, per Matt Maiocco of CSN Bay Area. Maiocco Maiocco reported Jan. 20 that Shanahan isn't expected to ask for full personnel control. On Sunday, however, La Canfora reported it's "likely" Shanahan will get control over the roster. The 49ers' plan is to extend an offer to Shanahan when Atlanta's season concludes, ESPN's Adam Schefter reported Jan. 17. He added the 49ers are expected to request a second interview after the NFC Championship Game. Schefter reported Jan. 23 the 49ers will meet with Shanahan on Jan. 27 or 28. The 49ers are expected to have their general manager candidates meet with Shanahan this week, Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported Jan. 17. Rapoport also reported the 49ers came into last week with Shanahan and New England Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels as "co-favorites," but McDaniels is out of the search. On Jan. 2, Rapoport reported the franchise would meet with Shanahan on Jan. 6 or 7. Doug Hendrickson , the agent of Seattle Seahawks offensive line coach Tom Cable, said the coach is no longer interested in the job opening. Rapoport had reported earlier that On Jan. 15, the 49ers announced they met with Cable. Schefter reported on the interview Jan. 8. On Jan. 2, Maiocco first reported San Francisco's interest in Cable. "They did a great job with their presentation and, again, humbled to be included in that process and at this time it's just best for my family and myself to remain here in New England and focus on this year's playoffs and finish out the year however it turns out," McDaniels told reporters on a conference call Monday. Earlier, La Canfora reported McDaniels was "very unlikely" to take the 49ers job and was "set to bow out from consideration and remain with the Patriots." La Canfora added that McDaniels "has given the 49ers situation much consideration and his dropping out not a reflection on them, just a personal decision." La Canfora reported the 49ers were "very much interested" in McDaniels, but for him, a potential cross-country move with a young family was "not likely." The 49ers announced they interviewed McDaniels on Jan. 7 Jason Cole of Bleacher Report reported Jan. 7 there was "increasing talk Eric Branch of the also reported the 49ers were McDaniels' preferred destination. The 49ers appealed to him because of their " Cole reported Jan. 4 that McDaniels was the 49ers' top candidate: A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI NFL Comeback Player of the Year Jordy Nelson Top 5 NFL Interception Leaders of 2016 Insider Buzz: Rams Could Let Trumaine Johnson Walk in Free Agency Insider Buzz: NFL Being Urged to Decrease TNF Games; Goodell Not Budging Insider Buzz: Las Vegas Deal Dead, but Raiders Haven't Contacted City of Oakland Insider Buzz: Belichick Could Pull Out Old Trick to Slow Down Julio Jones in SB Tale of the Tape: Do Patriots or Falcons Have Advantage in Super Bowl LI? NFL Award Predictions: Who Will Take Home Hardware at 'Honors' Ceremony? Why Dion Lewis Will Be Patriots Good Luck Charm in Super Bowl LI Which Group of Road Graders Will Win Offensive Line of the Year at NFL Honors? Deflategate to Lady Gaga: Prop Bets That Will Keep You Hooked on Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: Patriots Will Move Fast on Garoppolo Trade This Offseason Insider Buzz: Romo Wants to Face Cowboys in 2017 Season Can Super Bowl LI Patriots Cement Legacy as Top Team of New England Dynasty Era? Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Insider Buzz: John Elway, Rich McKay Endorsed John Lynch for 49ers GM Job Insider Buzz: Raiders to Vegas Hits a Snag, Lease Proposal Seen as 'Insulting' Why One of College Football's Worst Teams Will Be a Winner in Super Bowl LI Atlanta Falcons X-Factors to Disrupt Patriots Offense in Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: 'Unconventional' John Lynch Hire Won't Impact Shanahan to 49ers Insider Buzz: Teams Take 'Precautions' Before Facing Patriots, Shred Game Plans NCAA Lacrosse to Super Bowl LI: Patriots WR Chris Hogan's Rise to the Top Simms in 60: Falcons and Patriots Have Most Creative Offenses, Take Notice NFL Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Who Had the Best Attendance in the NFL in 2016? Insider Buzz: Former Bills Coaches Angry at 'Lazy' Dareus' Criticism of Rex Ryan Insider Buzz: Spanos Denies Wanting to Move Chargers Back to SD, Won't Sell Team Insider Buzz: Outgoing Rams Coaching Staff Blames Todd Gurley's Struggles on Him From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey Insider Buzz: Stanford's Solomon Thomas Looking Like Top-10 Talent Jackson vs. Garcon: Redskins Are Facing Difficult 2017 Free Agent Decision Simms' Hidden Truth: Falcons Use of Julio Jones Too Dynamic for NE to Shut Down Insider Buzz: Chiefs' Chris Ballard Emerging as Favorite for Colts' GM Job Insider Buzz: 3 Teams Eyeing Free Agent DeSean Jackson If Let Go by Washington Simms' Hidden Truth: X-Factors for Patriots to Slow Down Explosive Falcons in SB Insider Buzz: Collins Deal Will Be Baseline for Patriots to Ink Dont'a Hightower Insider Buzz: Raiders Hope Carr Contract Won't Reset QB Market, No Rush on Deal Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies How Tom Brady, Bill Belichick and the Patriots Rewrote the History Books Chris Hogan Lived Up to His "7/11" Nickname in Patriots AFC Title Victory Insider Buzz: CLE & SF Both Landing Spots for Kirk Cousins in Offseason Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 AFC CHAMPIONSHIP PREVIEW: TOM BRADY POISED TO MAKE HISTORY WITH PATRIOTS WIN The Key Player in the AFC Championship Game Tom Brady Poised to Make History with Victory Over Pittsburgh Steelers Insider Buzz: Shanahan May Cede Control of Roster to GM; 2 Lead Candidates Emerge Insider Buzz: Raiders Face Hurdles in Vegas Move; Owners Want Them in Oakland New England Patriots Have NFL's Ultimate Postseason Home-Field Advantage Can Home-Field Advantage Help Falcons Close Georgia Dome with NFC Championship? Simms' Hidden Truth: NE Can Slow Creative PIT Defense with Only 2 WRs on Field Simms' Hidden Truth: PIT Must Unleash Top Pass-Rushers on NE's Interior Linemen Insider Buzz: 49ers Expected to Target Kirk Cousins If Shanahan Named Head Coach On Jan. 2, Schefter and Matt Barrows of the identified McDaniels as an early candidate. McDaniels, 40, was widely expected to be among the hottest coaching candidates this offseason. He previously served as the Denver Broncos ' head coach for part of two seasons in 2009 and 2010. Denver went 11-17 during McDaniels' tenure, and he has spent the last six years rebuilding his reputation as one of the NFL's brightest offensive minds. McDaniels returned to the Patriots as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach in 2012, a post he held from 2006 to 2008. New England has scored more points than any other team over that stretch, ranking fourth or better in scoring offense in each of the last five seasons. Football Outsiders has ranked the Patriots sixth or better in total offense every season since McDaniels' return. While much of that can be attributed to the greatness of Tom Brady, McDaniels was able to impress during the Patriots' four-game stretch without their star quarterback in 2016. The Patriots started 3-1 without Brady despite backup Jimmy Garoppolo going down with an injury. LeGarrette Blount led the NFL with 18 rushing touchdowns, and Brady put together an MVP-level performance after returning in Week 5. Only the Atlanta Falcons finished with more regular-season points, and New England clinched the AFC's top seed with a win Sunday over the Miami Dolphins . Cole tweeted Carolina Panthers defensive coordinator Sean McDermott met with the 49ers, the team announced, per Maiocco . However, McDermott landed in Buffalo, taking the head coaching role with the Bills. Silver reported Washington Redskins offensive coordinator Sean McVay "crushed" his interview with the 49ers. However, McVay eventually took the head coaching job with the Los Angeles Rams. 4 The 49ers announced they interviewed Buffalo Bills interim head coach Anthony Lynn on Jan. 4. Rapoport first reported Lynn would interview with the 49ers on Jan. 4. Rapoport noted Lynn "made a positive impression" when he last met with the franchise. Lynn would eventually take the head coaching role with the Los Angeles Chargers. NFL Insider Rand Getlin reported Miami Dolphins defensive coordinator Vance Joseph was set to meet with the 49ers regarding their head coach opening. On Jan. 2, Maiocco Maiocco reported the 49ers were interested in Jacksonville  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Kyle Shanahan / Associated Press

The San Francisco 49ers have compiled a list of potential replacements for former head coach Chip Kelly, who finished with a 2-14 record during his lone season with the franchise, and now it appears as though they have narrowed the search down to one.

Continue for updates.

Shanahan Reportedly Expected to Take 49ers Job

Friday, Jan. 27

Atlanta Falcons offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan will meet with 49ers CEO Jed York and vice president Paraag Marathe on Friday in Atlanta, per Matt Maiocco of CSN Bay Area.

The Falcons are "convinced" Shanahan will accept the 49ers head coaching position, Maiocco reported Jan. 18. Michael Silver of NFL Network first reported Jan. 17 that Shanahan is expected to accept the gig. However, Jason La Canfora of CBSSports.com reported the same day that it's not a sure thing, calling it a "fluid situation."

Maiocco reported Jan. 20 that Shanahan isn't expected to ask for full personnel control. On Sunday, however, La Canfora reported it's "likely" Shanahan will get control over the roster.

The 49ers' plan is to extend an offer to Shanahan when Atlanta's season concludes, ESPN's Adam Schefter reported Jan. 17. He added the 49ers are expected to request a second interview after the NFC Championship Game.

Schefter reported Jan. 23 the 49ers will meet with Shanahan on Jan. 27 or 28.

The 49ers are expected to have their general manager candidates meet with Shanahan this week, Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported Jan. 17.

Rapoport also reported the 49ers came into last week with Shanahan and New England Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels as "co-favorites," but McDaniels is out of the search.

On Jan. 2, Rapoport reported the franchise would meet with Shanahan on Jan. 6 or 7.

Cable Bows Out of 49ers' Hunt

Tuesday, Jan. 17

Doug Hendrickson, the agent of Seattle Seahawks offensive line coach Tom Cable, said the coach is no longer interested in the job opening.

Rapoport had reported earlier that Cable was "still in the mix" for the 49ers head coaching job, even though Shanahan has emerged as the front-runner for the position.

On Jan. 15, the 49ers announced they met with Cable.

Schefter reported on the interview Jan. 8.

On Jan. 2, Maiocco first reported San Francisco's interest in Cable.

McDaniels Withdraws from 49ers' Search

Monday, Jan. 16

"They did a great job with their presentation and, again, humbled to be included in that process and at this time it's just best for my family and myself to remain here in New England and focus on this year's playoffs and finish out the year however it turns out," McDaniels told reporters on a conference call Monday.

Earlier, La Canfora reported McDaniels was "very unlikely" to take the 49ers job and was "set to bow out from consideration and remain with the Patriots." La Canfora added that McDaniels "has given the 49ers situation much consideration and his dropping out not a reflection on them, just a personal decision."

La Canfora reported the 49ers were "very much interested" in McDaniels, but for him, a potential cross-country move with a young family was "not likely."

The 49ers announced they interviewed McDaniels on Jan. 7

Jason Cole of Bleacher Report reported Jan. 7 there was "increasing talk that [McDaniels] and Louis Riddick are actually tied to each other for a coach-GM pairing," with San Francisco as the destination being discussed.

Eric Branch of the San Francisco Chronicle also reported the 49ers were McDaniels' preferred destination. The 49ers appealed to him because of their "clean-slate situation and [York's] stated commitment to patiently rebuilding," per Branch.

Cole reported Jan. 4 that McDaniels was the 49ers' top candidate:

A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI NFL Comeback Player of the Year Jordy Nelson Top 5 NFL Interception Leaders of 2016 Insider Buzz: Rams Could Let Trumaine Johnson Walk in Free Agency Insider Buzz: NFL Being Urged to Decrease TNF Games; Goodell Not Budging Insider Buzz: Las Vegas Deal Dead, but Raiders Haven't Contacted City of Oakland Insider Buzz: Belichick Could Pull Out Old Trick to Slow Down Julio Jones in SB Tale of the Tape: Do Patriots or Falcons Have Advantage in Super Bowl LI? NFL Award Predictions: Who Will Take Home Hardware at 'Honors' Ceremony? Why Dion Lewis Will Be Patriots Good Luck Charm in Super Bowl LI Which Group of Road Graders Will Win Offensive Line of the Year at NFL Honors? Deflategate to Lady Gaga: Prop Bets That Will Keep You Hooked on Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: Patriots Will Move Fast on Garoppolo Trade This Offseason Insider Buzz: Romo Wants to Face Cowboys in 2017 Season Can Super Bowl LI Patriots Cement Legacy as Top Team of New England Dynasty Era? Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Insider Buzz: John Elway, Rich McKay Endorsed John Lynch for 49ers GM Job Insider Buzz: Raiders to Vegas Hits a Snag, Lease Proposal Seen as 'Insulting' Why One of College Football's Worst Teams Will Be a Winner in Super Bowl LI Atlanta Falcons X-Factors to Disrupt Patriots Offense in Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: 'Unconventional' John Lynch Hire Won't Impact Shanahan to 49ers Insider Buzz: Teams Take 'Precautions' Before Facing Patriots, Shred Game Plans NCAA Lacrosse to Super Bowl LI: Patriots WR Chris Hogan's Rise to the Top Simms in 60: Falcons and Patriots Have Most Creative Offenses, Take Notice NFL Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Who Had the Best Attendance in the NFL in 2016? Insider Buzz: Former Bills Coaches Angry at 'Lazy' Dareus' Criticism of Rex Ryan Insider Buzz: Spanos Denies Wanting to Move Chargers Back to SD, Won't Sell Team Insider Buzz: Outgoing Rams Coaching Staff Blames Todd Gurley's Struggles on Him From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey Insider Buzz: Stanford's Solomon Thomas Looking Like Top-10 Talent Jackson vs. Garcon: Redskins Are Facing Difficult 2017 Free Agent Decision Simms' Hidden Truth: Falcons Use of Julio Jones Too Dynamic for NE to Shut Down Insider Buzz: Chiefs' Chris Ballard Emerging as Favorite for Colts' GM Job Insider Buzz: 3 Teams Eyeing Free Agent DeSean Jackson If Let Go by Washington Simms' Hidden Truth: X-Factors for Patriots to Slow Down Explosive Falcons in SB Insider Buzz: Collins Deal Will Be Baseline for Patriots to Ink Dont'a Hightower Insider Buzz: Raiders Hope Carr Contract Won't Reset QB Market, No Rush on Deal Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies How Tom Brady, Bill Belichick and the Patriots Rewrote the History Books Chris Hogan Lived Up to His "7/11" Nickname in Patriots AFC Title Victory Insider Buzz: CLE & SF Both Landing Spots for Kirk Cousins in Offseason Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 AFC CHAMPIONSHIP PREVIEW: TOM BRADY POISED TO MAKE HISTORY WITH PATRIOTS WIN The Key Player in the AFC Championship Game Tom Brady Poised to Make History with Victory Over Pittsburgh Steelers Insider Buzz: Shanahan May Cede Control of Roster to GM; 2 Lead Candidates Emerge Insider Buzz: Raiders Face Hurdles in Vegas Move; Owners Want Them in Oakland New England Patriots Have NFL's Ultimate Postseason Home-Field Advantage Can Home-Field Advantage Help Falcons Close Georgia Dome with NFC Championship? Simms' Hidden Truth: NE Can Slow Creative PIT Defense with Only 2 WRs on Field Simms' Hidden Truth: PIT Must Unleash Top Pass-Rushers on NE's Interior Linemen Insider Buzz: 49ers Expected to Target Kirk Cousins If Shanahan Named Head Coach

On Jan. 2, Schefter and Matt Barrows of the Sacramento Bee identified McDaniels as an early candidate.

McDaniels, 40, was widely expected to be among the hottest coaching candidates this offseason. He previously served as the Denver Broncos' head coach for part of two seasons in 2009 and 2010. Denver went 11-17 during McDaniels' tenure, and he has spent the last six years rebuilding his reputation as one of the NFL's brightest offensive minds.

McDaniels returned to the Patriots as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach in 2012, a post he held from 2006 to 2008. New England has scored more points than any other team over that stretch, ranking fourth or better in scoring offense in each of the last five seasons.

Football Outsiders has ranked the Patriots sixth or better in total offense every season since McDaniels' return.

While much of that can be attributed to the greatness of Tom Brady, McDaniels was able to impress during the Patriots' four-game stretch without their star quarterback in 2016. The Patriots started 3-1 without Brady despite backup Jimmy Garoppolo going down with an injury.

LeGarrette Blount led the NFL with 18 rushing touchdowns, and Brady put together an MVP-level performance after returning in Week 5. Only the Atlanta Falcons finished with more regular-season points, and New England clinched the AFC's top seed with a win Sunday over the Miami Dolphins.

McDaniels discussed a potential return to head coaching duties with reporters in November:

I've said it before and I'll say it again: I definitely would love to be a head coach again. There are only 32 of those in the world. They are opportunities that don't come around very often, and if you would ever be so fortunate and blessed to have another opportunity to do it—for myself, it would be a second time—that would be an opportunity I would look forward to.

Multiple Candidates Reportedly Open to York's Plans

Thursday, Jan. 12

Cole tweeted McDaniels and Shanahan "have told people they are very comfortable with how [York] plans to change direction of team."

McDermott Interviewed with 49ers

Tuesday, Jan. 10

Carolina Panthers defensive coordinator Sean McDermott met with the 49ers, the team announced, per Maiocco. However, McDermott landed in Buffalo, taking the head coaching role with the Bills.

McVay Reportedly Impressive in Interview

Monday, Jan. 9

Silver reported Washington Redskins offensive coordinator Sean McVay "crushed" his interview with the 49ers.

However, McVay eventually took the head coaching job with the Los Angeles Rams.

49ers Were Interested in Lynn

Wednesday, Jan. 4

The 49ers announced they interviewed Buffalo Bills interim head coach Anthony Lynn on Jan. 4.

Rapoport first reported Lynn would interview with the 49ers on Jan. 4. Rapoport noted Lynn "made a positive impression" when he last met with the franchise.

Lynn would eventually take the head coaching role with the Los Angeles Chargers.

Joseph Met with 49ers

Tuesday, Jan. 3

NFL Insider Rand Getlin reported Miami Dolphins defensive coordinator Vance Joseph was set to meet with the 49ers regarding their head coach opening. On Jan. 2, Maiocco reported Joseph was a target for San Francisco.

However, Joseph eventually accepted the head coaching job with the Broncos.

49ers Showed Interest in Marrone

Monday, Jan. 2

Maiocco reported the 49ers were interested in Jacksonville Jaguars interim coach Doug Marrone. However, the Jaguars opted to bring Marrone back as head coach.

49ers' New Coach Faces Uphill Battle

The 49ers went 2-14 during Kelly's only season, a miserable run that seemed doomed from the outset. Kelly inherited a roster no coach alive could have won with and did little to coach his players up. His most admirable bit of coaching was an improvement in player relationships—especially in his support of controversial quarterback Colin Kaepernick.

Whoever takes over will be walking into a situation that is dysfunctional at best, though it is likely on the rise after the departure of general manager Trent Baalke.

Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.