Spicer: Trump Will Meet Today With Martin Luther King III

Spicer: Trump Will Meet Today With Martin Luther King III // // // // // President-elect Donald Trump is set to meet with Martin Luther King III today in New York on the heels of a public back-and-forth with civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). Incoming White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer discussed the Martin Luther King Jr. Day meeting this morning on "Fox & Friends." Spicer said Trump will meet with Dr. King's oldest son to "talk about the legacy of Dr. King, ways to continue to enfranchise people and advocate for more people to be part of the voting process." Spicer said Rep. Lewis is an "icon" of voting rights and civil rights, so it was "disappointing" to hear him question the legitimacy of a U.S. presidential election. He added that Trump is willing to work with anyone on uniting Americans and bringing jobs back, but he is not going to be silent when attacked. "Donald Trump is leaving a successful business to fight for this country, to fight for American workers and he's not gonna sit back and let people take potshots," he said. Spicer said Trump was never scheduled to travel to Washington, D.C. today following reports that he had canceled a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. Watch the clip above.

President-elect Donald Trump is set to meet with Martin Luther King III today in New York on the heels of a public back-and-forth with civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis (D-GA).

Incoming White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer discussed the Martin Luther King Jr. Day meeting this morning on "Fox & Friends."

Spicer said Trump will meet with Dr. King's oldest son to "talk about the legacy of Dr. King, ways to continue to enfranchise people and advocate for more people to be part of the voting process."

Spicer said Rep. Lewis is an "icon" of voting rights and civil rights, so it was "disappointing" to hear him question the legitimacy of a U.S. presidential election.

He added that Trump is willing to work with anyone on uniting Americans and bringing jobs back, but he is not going to be silent when attacked.

"Donald Trump is leaving a successful business to fight for this country, to fight for American workers and he's not gonna sit back and let people take potshots," he said.

Spicer said Trump was never scheduled to travel to Washington, D.C. today following reports that he had canceled a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture.

Watch the clip above.

Clinton Global Initiative to Close Amid Drop in Foreign Donations

Report: George Soros Lost Nearly a Billion Dollars in the Market After Trump Win

Inauguration Workers Cover Up 'Don's Johns' on Portable Toilets on Capitol Hill