Now, Navjot Singh Sidhu Says He's 'A Born Congressman', This Is His 'Ghar Wapsi'
Now, Navjot Singh Sidhu Says He's 'A Born Congressman', This Is His 'Ghar Wapsi'
Now, Navjot Singh Sidhu Says He's 'A Born Congressman', This Is His 'Ghar Wapsi' A day after he formally joined the Congress party ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, former BJP man Navjot Singh Sidhu said he's a "born Congressman" and his entry into the Congress is akin to a "ghar wapasi." "I'm a born Congressman; from birth, I'm essentially a Congressman. I've come back to my roots," Sidhu said today at a press conference, adding that his father worked with the Congress for 40 years. "Drugs are a reality in Punjab, the lives of youth are being destroyed," Sidhu said. Sidhu, who was earlier with the BJP, demurred when asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but he did say that unlike for most, Punjab was on the top of his agenda. "I was not ready to leave Amritsar to fight from safe seats in 2014 though I was offered it," the former cricketer said. Separately, other opposition leaders criticised Sidhu. "It's difficult to take anything that Navjot Sidhu says seriously," said Bikram Singh Majithia of the Shiromani Akali Dal, ANI reported. "Will people forget what he said about Sonia and Rahul Gandhi? He used the most derogatory words for Dr Manmohan Singh sahib," Majithia added. In his first press conference since joining Congress, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed the press about his decision to join the party. Speaking from the Congress headquarters, along with Ajay Maken and Asha Kumari, Sidhu said he was a 'born Congressman'. "I have just come back to my roots, I was born to be part of Congress," the newly inducted Congress minister said.

A day after he formally joined the Congress party ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, former BJP man Navjot Singh Sidhu said he's a "born Congressman" and his entry into the Congress is akin to a "ghar wapasi."

indianexpress.com

"I'm a born Congressman; from birth, I'm essentially a Congressman. I've come back to my roots," Sidhu said today at a press conference, adding that his father worked with the Congress for 40 years.

He added that he would contest from the constituency the Congress asks him to fight from and that the issue of drugs will be top on his electoral agenda.

"Drugs are a reality in Punjab, the lives of youth are being destroyed," Sidhu said. Sidhu, who was earlier with the BJP, demurred when asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but he did say that unlike for most, Punjab was on the top of his agenda.

"I was not ready to leave Amritsar to fight from safe seats in 2014 though I was offered it," the former cricketer said.

BCCL

Separately, other opposition leaders criticised Sidhu.

"It's difficult to take anything that Navjot Sidhu says seriously," said Bikram Singh Majithia of the Shiromani Akali Dal, ANI reported. "Will people forget what he said about Sonia and Rahul Gandhi? He used the most derogatory words for Dr Manmohan Singh sahib," Majithia added.

Parkash Singh Badal called Sidhu someone who changes parties per his convenience. "He changes parties and makes deals, people don't know this about him," Badal said, according to ANI.

In his first press conference since joining Congress, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed the press about his decision to join the party. Speaking from the Congress headquarters, along with Ajay Maken and Asha Kumari, Sidhu said he was a 'born Congressman'.

"I have just come back to my roots, I was born to be part of Congress," the newly inducted Congress minister said.

BCCL





Speaking about his mission in the party, Sidhu said, "this isn't my personal battle, but the fight for Punjab's well-being and it's existence, and I am only the medium."

On his alleged tiff with Congress MP and former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Sidhu said, " if two countries can sort out their issues through conversation, and when Lalu-Nitish can come together, then why can't we do the same?"

Sidhu refrained from answering questions on his views on Narendra Modi as PM, instead of saying, "they chose an alliance, and I chose Punjab."

On not joining the AAP, he said, "they didn't want me to contest elections. How would I fight for the betterment of the state if I can't fight in the polls? I cannot be a showpiece for the party."

NDTV

"Kejriwal himself tweeted that I had no demands, and he called me an icon."

Sidhu joined the Congress on January 15th, after meeting Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi, after bypassing local leadership. The party said it would be "immensely strengthened" in poll-bound Punjab even as the former BJP Amritsar MP described his joining the Congress as "beginning of a new inning".

"Beginning of a new inning., On the front foot........ Punjab, Punjabiyat & every Punjabi must win !!! (sic)," he tweeted after joining Congress.

Beginning of a new inning. On the front foot........ Punjab, Punjabiyat & every Punjabi must win !!! pic.twitter.com/up0WzzoaxJ — Navjot Singh Sidhu (@sherryontopp) January 15, 2017

53-year-old Sidhu is likely to contest from Amritsar East Assembly seat. Sidhu had resigned from Rajya Sabha and quit BJP following which his wife Navjot Kaur had joined Congress on November 28.

He faced a major setback in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls after the BJP replaced him with Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley for the Amritsar seat. The latter lost to Punjab Congress chief Amarinder Singh.