Samsung Electronics finds faulty BATTERIES caused Galaxy Note 7s to burst into flames
Samsung Electronics probe finds BATTERIES cause phone explosions


Samsung Electronics' investigation into what caused some Galaxy Note 7s to catch fire has concluded that the batteries caused the devices to explode, a source said.

The company will likely announce the results of the probe on January 23, revealing what faults led to the massive recall scandal that is said to have cost $19billion.

The firm will also announce new measures it is taking to avoid a repeat of the product safety failures in its future devices.

Scroll down for video

Samsung Electronics investigation into what caused some Galaxy Note 7s to catch fire has concluded that the batteries were the cause of the explosion

Samsung will likely announce the results of the investigation on January 23. The firm will also announce new measures it is taking to avoid a repeat of the product safety failures in its future devices

Samsung could not be immediately reached for comment.

The mobile phone's batteries were suspected to be the issue in October as the company began research into the bizarre explosions.

Photos showing the aftermath of the explosive test reveal the charred remains of the smartphone and its battery.

The alarming photos were revealed just a day after one of the popular mobile's began giving off smoke on a Southwest Airlines flight to Baltimore from Louisville, Kentucky.

The conditions of the lab test do not replicate the nature of the malfunctions experienced by Note 7 owners.

However, Samsung has faced harsh criticism following the emergence of the potentially dangerous product flaw involving overheating of the Note 7's battery.

Customers whose devices spontaneously set on fire shared their pictures since the first incidents were reported in August

Some of the toughest criticism levelled at the Korean brand has been over its fumbling of the recall.

Samsung axed its Galaxy Note 7 smartphone in October, stopping production of the faulty device a day after it halted global sales of the product and offering everyone their money back.

The decision could potentially cost the firm $19billion. Experts estimate the axing of the device could cost nearly $17billion in lost sales and Samsung could have to shell out an estimated $2.2billion if every 2.5 million handset produced was refunded at an average cost of $850.

Samsung Electronics shares fell 8 per cent in Seoul Tuesday, wiping out about $17 billion of market value, before the KRX stock exchange closed at 3pm KST - the recall in total could cost them over $19 billion

Samsung has struggled to regain customer confidence after producing the faulty phones.

The company only stopped selling the device after finding that even the supposedly safer replacements it was providing for recalled Note 7 phones were catching fire.

A number of well-documented instances across the globe were reported, injuring customers as young as 13 due to the spontaneous combustion.

A Jeep burst into flames in Florida after the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 set alight when it was put on charge - the company only stopped producing the phones entirely after their replacement models continued to explode

GIRL, 13, SUFFERS MINOR BURN AS NOTE 7 REPLACEMENT MELTS IN HER HAND A Minnesota father says his daughter suffered a minor burn to her thumb when her replacement Samsung smartphone melted in her hand last week. Andrew Zuis of Farmington, Minn., said his daughter, Abby, was holding the Galaxy Note 7 in her left hand Friday when it melted. Zuis saidthat the family had acquired the new phone on the day the replacement phones were released. There had been no problem with the original phone, he said. 'It's very fortunate Abby was not injured and was holding the phone,' Zuis said. 'If it was in her pocket, I think it would have been a whole different situation. I'm just very disappointed in Samsung and their product.' Andrew Zuis, of Farmington, Minn., showed the replacement Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone belonging to his 13-year-old daughter Abby, that melted in her hand 'She's done with Note 7s right now,' Zuis said of his daughter. Reports of more replacement phones catching fire continued Zuis provided KSTP-TV with receipts showing that the family bought a Galaxy Note 7 in August and then exchanged it Sept. 21 after Samsung announced the recall. 'She's done with Note 7s right now,' Zuis said of his daughter. A Samsung representative told KSTP that an investigation is underway. 'We want to reassure our customers that we take every report seriously and we are engaged with the Zuis family to ensure we are doing everything we can for them and their daughter,' the representative said in a statement.

Despite the widespread criticism of the company and the Galaxy Note 7, Samsung recently revealed they will be releasing a new Galaxy model - the S8.

For many, the release comes as an opportunity for the company to redeem themselves after accumulating a negative reputation over the last six months.

Samsung heir Lee Jae-Yong returned home on Friday after marathon questioning by South Korean prosecutors as a suspect in a massive corruption scandal involving impeached President Park Geun-Hye.

Vice chairman of Samsung Electronics and the son of Samsung Group chairman Lee Kun-Hee were quizzed for 22 hours over allegations of bribery.

Lee Jae-yong, vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, arrives to be questioned as a suspect in a corruption scandal that led to the impeachment of President Park Geun-Hye, in Seoul on January 12, 2017

Prosecutors will soon decide whether to issue an arrest warrant for Lee. If they decide to proceed, he will be the first South Korean business tycoon to be arrested in the widening probe into the scandal.

Three other Samsung executives may also be arrested, according to the spokesman.

More than a dozen people have already been arrested in the case, including Choi and her niece, a former culture minister, an ex-health minister, a former top presidential aide for economic affairs, and a college professor.