Priyanka Chopra's Koffee Teaser, SRK's Valuable Teachings For His Sons & More From Ent!
Priyanka Chopra's Koffee Teaser, SRK's Valuable Teachings For His Sons & More From Ent!
Priyanka Chopra's Koffee Teaser, SRK's Valuable Teachings For His Sons & More From Ent! 1.Father Of A Daughter Himself, SRK Says He'll Behead His Sons Aryan & AbRam If They Hurt A Woman In an interview with Femina, SRK said,"I tell Aryan and even AbRam never hurt a woman. If you do, I'll behead you. And no, times have not changed. A girl is not your chhadi-buddy; show some respect." 2.Vin Diesel Bids Adieu To India With A Cute Post, Cheers To The New Ambassador Of Cutting Chai The talented actor took to Instagram to post a very cute picture of himself with our gorgeous lady Deepika. Interestingly, the highlight of this picture is the glasses of cutting chai that the duo can be seen holding! Yes, not just that even a utensil filled with tea can be seen boiling on the gas stove! 3.Karan Johar Tells All In His Book, Says His Ugly Spat With Kareena Over Money Lasted For A Year An excerpt from his book reads, “My first problem was with Kareena. She asked for too much money and we had some kind of a fallout at that time. Mujhse Dosti Karoge! had just released, directed by Kunal Kohli. She said, ‘Aditya Chopra’s assistant Kunal Kohli has made this flop, so Karan Johar’s assistant, Nikhil Advani is not to be trusted either’. The weekend of Mujhse Dosti Karoge‘s release, I offered her Kal Ho Naa Ho, and she asked for the same money that Shah Rukh Khan was getting. I said, ‘Sorry’. 4.Salman Plays The Peacemaker, Wishes SRK & Hrithik Luck for Their Films By Posting A Throwback Pic! The Dabangg actor decided to douse the fire when he posted a throwback picture with SRK and Hrithik yesterday. What’s more, he even wished good luck to both the actors for their films. He then went on to thank Hrithik’s father Rakesh Roshan for giving him some amazing memories of working with SRK in Karan Arjun. 5. From Her Sex Life, Kissing An Ex To Marriage Plans, PC To Bare It All On Koffee With Karan Global star Priyanka Chopra will be making an appearance on the show, SOLO! Yes, because she doesn't need a partner. She herself is entertainment central! From gulping coffee shots, discussing her sex life and making some dark confessions, PC is set to bare it all.

1.Father Of A Daughter Himself, SRK Says He'll Behead His Sons Aryan & AbRam If They Hurt A Woman

In an interview with Femina, SRK said,"I tell Aryan and even AbRam never hurt a woman. If you do, I'll behead you. And no, times have not changed. A girl is not your chhadi-buddy; show some respect."

2.Vin Diesel Bids Adieu To India With A Cute Post, Cheers To The New Ambassador Of Cutting Chai

The talented actor took to Instagram to post a very cute picture of himself with our gorgeous lady Deepika. Interestingly, the highlight of this picture is the glasses of cutting chai that the duo can be seen holding! Yes, not just that even a utensil filled with tea can be seen boiling on the gas stove!

3.Karan Johar Tells All In His Book, Says His Ugly Spat With Kareena Over Money Lasted For A Year

stylish pie

An excerpt from his book reads, “My first problem was with Kareena. She asked for too much money and we had some kind of a fallout at that time. Mujhse Dosti Karoge! had just released, directed by Kunal Kohli. She said, ‘Aditya Chopra’s assistant Kunal Kohli has made this flop, so Karan Johar’s assistant, Nikhil Advani is not to be trusted either’. The weekend of Mujhse Dosti Karoge‘s release, I offered her Kal Ho Naa Ho, and she asked for the same money that Shah Rukh Khan was getting. I said, ‘Sorry’.

4.Salman Plays The Peacemaker, Wishes SRK & Hrithik Luck for Their Films By Posting A Throwback Pic!

The Dabangg actor decided to douse the fire when he posted a throwback picture with SRK and Hrithik yesterday.

What’s more, he even wished good luck to both the actors for their films. He then went on to thank Hrithik’s father Rakesh Roshan for giving him some amazing memories of working with SRK in Karan Arjun.

5. From Her Sex Life, Kissing An Ex To Marriage Plans, PC To Bare It All On Koffee With Karan

Star World

Global star Priyanka Chopra will be making an appearance on the show, SOLO! Yes, because she doesn't need a partner. She herself is entertainment central! From gulping coffee shots, discussing her sex life and making some dark confessions, PC is set to bare it all.