Super Bowl ticket prices drop after Dallas Cowboys' loss
Super Bowl ticket prices drop after Cowboys lose
Super Bowl ticket prices drop after Cowboys lose Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Steelers cut former Browns top-10 pick Gilbert Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE SB draws 111.3M viewers on Fox, down slightly Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star 49ers must continue to practice patience with Kyle Shanahan Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Ryan Clark breaks down the Cowboys' 34-31 playoff loss to the Packers. (1:34) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com's sports business reporter since 2012; previously at ESPN from 2000-06 Appears on SportsCenter, ESPN Radio, ESPN.com and with ABC News Formerly worked as analyst at CNBC Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The Super Bowl ticket resale market slumped minutes after the Dallas Cowboys lost to the Green Bay Packers on Sunday night. Before Sunday's playoff game, the cheapest ticket to Super Bowl LI on StubHub was $4,195. Shortly after the Cowboys were defeated 34-31 on a field goal as time ran out, the get-in price was down 20 percent to $3,349. Tickets in the lower end zone dropped 18 percent to $4,307. Ticket brokers had already been benefiting from people speculating that the Cowboys would make their first Super Bowl in 21 years -- and in nearby Houston, no less. "The threat of the Cowboys playing in a Super Bowl within a four-hour drive of their home stadium was propping up get-in ticket prices to unprecedented levels," said Patrick Ryan, co-founder of Eventellect, a Houston-based ticket distribution company. "Cowboys fans were willing to take the risk of buying tickets and their team not making it because of the uncertainty of what would happen if they did make it." It remains to be seen how On Location Experiences, a hospitality company partly owned by NFL owners, will react to the tickets they are offering. The company is the only ticket seller of Super Bowl seats at this point that allows fans to buy specific seats to the game, instead of zones offered by brokers who don't yet have their hands on the seats they are selling. Ryan said the money floating around Houston, without the Cowboys fans, will also drop. "Tickets to all the major parties will come down in value, as there will be fewer fans, in general, coming to town to experience the Super Bowl festivities," Ryan said. Should their team make the Super Bowl, Packers and New England Patriots fans have strong travel contingents, but they've had their chances to attend the big game over the years. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Super Bowl ticket resale market slumped minutes after the Dallas Cowboys lost to the Green Bay Packers on Sunday night.

Before Sunday's playoff game, the cheapest ticket to Super Bowl LI on StubHub was $4,195. Shortly after the Cowboys were defeated 34-31 on a field goal as time ran out, the get-in price was down 20 percent to $3,349. Tickets in the lower end zone dropped 18 percent to $4,307.

Ticket brokers had already been benefiting from people speculating that the Cowboys would make their first Super Bowl in 21 years -- and in nearby Houston, no less.

"The threat of the Cowboys playing in a Super Bowl within a four-hour drive of their home stadium was propping up get-in ticket prices to unprecedented levels," said Patrick Ryan, co-founder of Eventellect, a Houston-based ticket distribution company. "Cowboys fans were willing to take the risk of buying tickets and their team not making it because of the uncertainty of what would happen if they did make it."

It remains to be seen how On Location Experiences, a hospitality company partly owned by NFL owners, will react to the tickets they are offering. The company is the only ticket seller of Super Bowl seats at this point that allows fans to buy specific seats to the game, instead of zones offered by brokers who don't yet have their hands on the seats they are selling.

Ryan said the money floating around Houston, without the Cowboys fans, will also drop.

"Tickets to all the major parties will come down in value, as there will be fewer fans, in general, coming to town to experience the Super Bowl festivities," Ryan said.

Should their team make the Super Bowl, Packers and New England Patriots fans have strong travel contingents, but they've had their chances to attend the big game over the years.