Rob Thomas Shows His 'Smooth' Side in Performance for New Series of 'Front and Center': Exclusive Premiere
Rob Thomas Shows His 'Smooth' Side in Performance for New Series of 'Front and Center': Exclusive Premiere
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Rob Thomas Shows His 'Smooth' Side in Performance for New Series of 'Front and Center': Exclusive Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  turns on the charm and charisma for his “Smooth” performance at the historic Iridium jazz club in NYC. ` The arena-filling singer switches gears for the show, which was shot for the upcoming nine-part series. And he’s in fine company. The likes of have enchanted audiences at the intimate Iridium venue. “I’m telling stories and stories are better shared when it’s a smaller group of people, then when you do it in a room like this, where all these legendary people have played,” the three-time Grammy winner tells . “There’s just a funk in this room that you can’t get anywhere else. It’s pretty cool.”  The series, now in its seventh season, features legends from across many genres. The nine new episodes include performances by and others. Thomas kicks off the new season with a session in which he delivers some of his biggest hits, including “Lonely No More,” “3am,” his new song “We Are One” and, of course, “Smooth,” his global hit collaboration with . Watch the clip below. And for more information visit FrontAndCenter.com   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Rob Thomas during his Front and Center concert series performanceÂ at Iridium in New York City.

Rob Thomas turns on the charm and charisma for his “Smooth” performance at the historic Iridium jazz club in NYC. `

The arena-filling Matchbox Twenty singer switches gears for the show, which was shot for the upcoming nine-part Front and Center series. And he’s in fine company. The likes of Kenny Garrett, Jacky Terrasson, Charlie Haden, Kenny Barron and Benny Carter have enchanted audiences at the intimate Iridium venue.

“I’m telling stories and stories are better shared when it’s a smaller group of people, then when you do it in a room like this, where all these legendary people have played,” the three-time Grammy winner tells Billboard. “There’s just a funk in this room that you can’t get anywhere else. It’s pretty cool.”

The Front and Center series, now in its seventh season, features legends from across many genres. The nine new episodes include performances by Shawn Mendes, Cheap Trick, Southside Johnny, Steve Vai, Kaleo, Dawes and others.

Thomas kicks off the new season with a session in which he delivers some of his biggest hits, including “Lonely No More,” “3am,” his new song “We Are One” and, of course, “Smooth,” his global hit collaboration with Santana.

Watch the clip below. And for more information visit FrontAndCenter.com

