Manchester house explosion: Five hurt as home destroyed in Blackley blast
Manchester house explosion: Five hurt as home destroyed in Blackley blast
ive people have been injured after a house was destroyed by an explosion in Manchester . Pictures from the scene in Blackley show the street strewn with rubble after the end-of-terrace house had its roof blown off and collapsed on Monday afternoon. One person was taken to hospital following the blast, just before 12.30pm, the North West Ambulance Service (NWAS) said. Greater Manchester Police said the cause of the explosion, which also damaged the house next door and a parked car, was still unknown. mergency services sealed off the street after bricks and furniture littered the pavement following the explosion. A NWAS spokeswoman said: "We have taken one patient to Salford Royal Hospital and in total it looks like there are five people with injuries. "We received a call at 12.16pm and we have a lot of resources on the scene." esidents in the area described how their own houses shook due to the force of the blast. Firefighters also rescued a small kitten from the debris of the house. Firefighters have rescued this little kitten from the debris at the house explosion in Blackley. It's being very well looked after. pic.twitter.com/W1qQHimKXI reater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service posted photos of the kitten on Twitter and said: "Firefighters have rescued this little kitten from the debris at the house explosion in Blackley. "It's being very well looked after." Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service spokesman said: "Crews are assessing the scene and carrying out a primary search of the area. One casualty is being treated by the road. "An aerial unit from Stretford is en route, along with two TIUs from Ashton and Leigh, a command unit from Rochdale, a timber unit from Rochdale, and a fire dog."

Five people have been injured after a house was destroyed by an explosion in Manchester.

Pictures from the scene in Blackley show the street strewn with rubble after the end-of-terrace house had its roof blown off and collapsed on Monday afternoon.

One person was taken to hospital following the blast, just before 12.30pm, the North West Ambulance Service (NWAS) said.

Greater Manchester Police said the cause of the explosion, which also damaged the house next door and a parked car, was still unknown.