Philippines government bans Pornhub and other adult sites
The world's most avid porn viewers will have to do without


The Philippines government has blocked Internet users from accessing the world's most popular porn websites.

It comes only 10 days after a survey showed that for the third year running Filipinos had spent more time, per visit, on Pornhub than any other nation.

But on Saturday access to Pornhub, Xvideos, Redtube and several other sites was forbidden on PCs, laptops and mobile phones. Users were redirected to a page notifying them of such a ban.

The Deputy Commissioner of the Philippines National Telecommunications Commission, Edgardo Cabarios, told CNN they had ordered all the country's top Internet service providers to block access to adult sites.

Customers of two of the main ISPs, Smart and Sun Cellular, confirmed to the BBC they were blocked.

The move by the government of President Rodrigo Duterte (pictured, left) is believed to be part of his campaign to clean up Filipino society

The notice said: 'This website has been ordered blocked under authority of the Philippine government pursuant to Republic Act 9775 or the Anti-Child Pornography Law.'

There is no suggestion any of the websites in question had posted images of under-age children.

But the censorship of the adult websites is in line with President Rodrigo Duterte's determination to 'clean up' Filipino society.

Pornhub's Vice President, Corey Price, told Mail Online: 'Non-consensual and child pornography is strictly prohibited on Pornhub. It's disappointing that Pornhub was blocked as it will just drive people to use less vetted, riskier, smaller websites. We're open to working with government officials to meet their standards in the Philippines.'

When it comes to the length of each individual session of 'me time', Filipinos watch considerably more than any other country

Since his election in May last year the 71-year-old has ordered a clampdown on drugs - which has led to 5,700 people being killed in the last six months amid claims of extrajudicial killings - and corruption.

Earlier this month Pornhub's own survey found Filipinos spent an average of 12 minutes and 45 seconds on the adult website, almost two minutes longer than the next most avid viewers, South Africans.

Ironically the age of consent in the Philippines is just 12 years of age.

Pornhub is the world's most popular adult website, with 87.8 billion video views a year and 60 million visitors every day

But people who logged onto Pornhub in the Philippines this week got only this message

The Inquirer website said that under the country's Anti-Child Pornography Law adult websites are required to 'report the presence of child pornography, as well as the particulars the person maintaining, hosting, distributing or in any manner contributing to such Internet address, to the proper authorities' within seven days.

In 2014, the Philippines National Telecommunications Commission issued a memo ordering Internet service providers to ban access to sites containing child pornography.

Many other countries - Saudi Arabia, China, Indonesia, Cuba, Iceland, Thailand, Egypt and Pakistan - block online porn.

In September last year Russia banned Pornhub, YouPorn and nine other porn websites and, following complaints, suggested users 'meet someone in real life'.