Should You Change Your Investments Under President Trump?
Should You Change Your Investments Under President Trump?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Allan Eberhart       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Regardless of whether you’ll be celebrating or self-medicating when Donald Trump takes the oath of office on January 20, you may be wondering what investment changes you should consider with the change of our Commander in Chief. President-elect Donald Trump speaks at a news cenference at Trump Tower on January 11, 2017 in New York City.(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) If you’re an active investor, there is preliminary evidence that the correlation among various investments has fallen since the Trump victory, suggesting more differentiation between winning and losing investments and therefore more opportunities for big gains and, ahem, losses from trading. For example, bank stocks like Goldman Sachs have soared about 32% since the election on November 8 to year-end while others such as health care stocks like Medtronic PLC have dropped about 15%. I’m committed to a globally diversified set of stock and bond index funds, and so I won’t pretend to know any Trump investment plays. But should index investors at least consider reducing their investment in the stock market with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) rising to a historic high following the election? The answer is not necessarily. There’s nothing inherently special about the DJIA or any stock market index rising to a historic high. Indeed, as long as the stock market is reasonably efficient, we should expect it to continue to set new highs each year ad infinitum for the simple reason that we should expect stock prices to rise over time (i.e., we should expect stock returns to be positive). This doesn’t mean, of course, that the actual returns to stocks will always be positive—the possibility of a difference between what we expect stock returns to be and what the returns turn out to be is what makes stocks a risky investment—but it’s reasonable to expect stock returns to be positive as a reward to investors willing to accept the risk of stock investing. This same logic applies to the bond market. There is, however, evidence that the stock market isn’t so efficient. Some financial metrics appear to reveal when it’s overvalued and subsequent stock returns may be negative. Nobel Laureate Robert Shiller’s Cyclically Adjusted Price-Earnings ( CAPE ) Ratio is one of the more prominent measures (i.e., when the CAPE Ratio is above its long-term average, the stock market may be overvalued). There also is some evidence that interest rates tend to rise when they are below the typical historic rate. In these cases, the bond market may be “overvalued” in the sense that bond prices fall when interest rates rise and this can cause subsequent bond returns to be negative. How do the markets look now? Well, the current CAPE Ratio (28.3) is not only conspicuously above its long-term average (16.7), it’s higher than it was before the Great Recession. Moreover, interest rates are close to historic lows even though they’ve ticked up since Trump’s victory (e.g., the 10-year Treasury rate is currently about 2.4% versus the typical historic rate of 5.5% and the historic low of 1.5% from 1953-2016 ). Yowser! The stock market and the bond market may both be overvalued. Is now the time to sell your stocks and bonds and sock your money away in—as the great wide receiver Randy Moss would say—“ straight cash homie ”? For committed index investors, the answer is no because index investing embraces the efficient market hypothesis view that you can’t beat the market. That means you can’t pick stocks (i.e., invest in individual stocks in an attempt to beat the stock market) time the market (e.g., alter your mix of stocks, bonds, and risk-free investments in an attempt to beat the overall stock and bond market performance). And it’s that latter point that index investors can often forget. You may be wisely diversified across stocks and bonds with index funds, but you can undo this wisdom with foolish attempts to time when to invest relatively more (less) in stocks based on your assessment that the stock market is undervalued (overvalued). People who do this are called market timers, and they’re another type of active investor. Recent evidence suggests that the odds are against market timers. One way of reconciling this with the evidence cited above is that there is no magic number for the CAPE Ratio, interest rates, or any other measure that gives a clear “sell now” or “buy now” decision. This ambiguity is just one reason why successful market timing is, oh what’s the word I’m searching for… . But if you think that you can do it and enjoy doing the necessary research, then knock yourself out. After all, the evidence cited above and other recent evidence finds that some market timers are successful. Moreover, as I explained last month with stock pickers, we index investors depend on a core of active investors. In this case, it’s market timers willing to trade when they believe markets have become overvalued or undervalued. Their trades make it more likely that markets will be properly valued and therefore more likely that index investors will earn a return commensurate with their investment risk. Avoiding market timing doesn’t imply avoiding rebalancing your portfolio, however. If, for example, your desired investment mix is 60% stocks and 40% bonds and stocks now comprise 70% of your portfolio after the stock market’s recent rise, then reducing your relative investment in the stock market can make sense. But make sure that you know the value of of your household investments before you consider such rebalancing and always check on the tax consequences of selling any investments in taxable accounts (e.g., it can often be possible to rebalance without selling any investments in taxable accounts). Finally, regardless of whether you rebalance or not, a well-diversified portfolio of stock and bond index funds doesn’t immunize you against the risk of a collapse in stock and bond markets around the world. If you don’t want to accept this risk, then you should only invest in risk-free investments such as cash for immediate expenses. But unless you’re wealthy enough to earn the low risk-free rate on your entire portfolio and still be able to, say, retire comfortably, you’ll have to accept this risk for at least part of your portfolio. As with the outcome of the presidential election, you can’t control this risk and so there’s no use in worrying about it. Take comfort in that fact and enjoy your celebration or self-medication on January 20. Allan Eberhart is a Professor of Finance and Founding Director of the Master of Science in Finance Program at Georgetown University . Follow him on twitter @ProfAEberhart    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Regardless of whether you’ll be celebrating or self-medicating when Donald Trump takes the oath of office on January 20, you may be wondering what investment changes you should consider with the change of our Commander in Chief.

If you’re an active investor, there is preliminary evidence that the correlation among various investments has fallen since the Trump victory, suggesting more differentiation between winning and losing investments and therefore more opportunities for big gains and, ahem, losses from trading. For example, bank stocks like Goldman Sachs have soared about 32% since the election on November 8 to year-end while others such as health care stocks like Medtronic PLC have dropped about 15%.

I’m committed to a globally diversified set of stock and bond index funds, and so I won’t pretend to know any Trump investment plays. But should index investors at least consider reducing their investment in the stock market with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) rising to a historic high following the election?

The answer is not necessarily. There’s nothing inherently special about the DJIA or any stock market index rising to a historic high. Indeed, as long as the stock market is reasonably efficient, we should expect it to continue to set new highs each year ad infinitum for the simple reason that we should expect stock prices to rise over time (i.e., we should expect stock returns to be positive). This doesn’t mean, of course, that the actual returns to stocks will always be positive—the possibility of a difference between what we expect stock returns to be and what the returns turn out to be is what makes stocks a risky investment—but it’s reasonable to expect stock returns to be positive as a reward to investors willing to accept the risk of stock investing. This same logic applies to the bond market.

There is, however, evidence that the stock market isn’t so efficient. Some financial metrics appear to reveal when it’s overvalued and subsequent stock returns may be negative. Nobel Laureate Robert Shiller’s Cyclically Adjusted Price-Earnings (CAPE) Ratio is one of the more prominent measures (i.e., when the CAPE Ratio is above its long-term average, the stock market may be overvalued). There also is some evidence that interest rates tend to rise when they are below the typical historic rate. In these cases, the bond market may be “overvalued” in the sense that bond prices fall when interest rates rise and this can cause subsequent bond returns to be negative.

How do the markets look now? Well, the current CAPE Ratio (28.3) is not only conspicuously above its long-term average (16.7), it’s higher than it was before the Great Recession. Moreover, interest rates are close to historic lows even though they’ve ticked up since Trump’s victory (e.g., the 10-year Treasury rate is currently about 2.4% versus the typical historic rate of 5.5% and the historic low of 1.5% from 1953-2016).

Yowser! The stock market and the bond market may both be overvalued. Is now the time to sell your stocks and bonds and sock your money away in—as the great wide receiver Randy Moss would say—“straight cash homie”?

For committed index investors, the answer is no because index investing embraces the efficient market hypothesis view that you can’t beat the market. That means you can’t pick stocks (i.e., invest in individual stocks in an attempt to beat the stock market) or time the market (e.g., alter your mix of stocks, bonds, and risk-free investments in an attempt to beat the overall stock and bond market performance). And it’s that latter point that index investors can often forget. You may be wisely diversified across stocks and bonds with index funds, but you can undo this wisdom with foolish attempts to time when to invest relatively more (less) in stocks based on your assessment that the stock market is undervalued (overvalued). People who do this are called market timers, and they’re another type of active investor.

Recent evidence suggests that the odds are against market timers. One way of reconciling this with the evidence cited above is that there is no magic number for the CAPE Ratio, interest rates, or any other measure that gives a clear “sell now” or “buy now” decision. This ambiguity is just one reason why successful market timing is, oh what’s the word I’m searching for…hard. But if you think that you can do it and enjoy doing the necessary research, then knock yourself out. After all, the evidence cited above and other recent evidence finds that some market timers are successful.

Moreover, as I explained last month with stock pickers, we index investors depend on a core of active investors. In this case, it’s market timers willing to trade when they believe markets have become overvalued or undervalued. Their trades make it more likely that markets will be properly valued and therefore more likely that index investors will earn a return commensurate with their investment risk.

Avoiding market timing doesn’t imply avoiding rebalancing your portfolio, however. If, for example, your desired investment mix is 60% stocks and 40% bonds and stocks now comprise 70% of your portfolio after the stock market’s recent rise, then reducing your relative investment in the stock market can make sense. But make sure that you know the value of all of your household investments before you consider such rebalancing and always check on the tax consequences of selling any investments in taxable accounts (e.g., it can often be possible to rebalance without selling any investments in taxable accounts).

Finally, regardless of whether you rebalance or not, a well-diversified portfolio of stock and bond index funds doesn’t immunize you against the risk of a collapse in stock and bond markets around the world. If you don’t want to accept this risk, then you should only invest in risk-free investments such as cash for immediate expenses. But unless you’re wealthy enough to earn the low risk-free rate on your entire portfolio and still be able to, say, retire comfortably, you’ll have to accept this risk for at least part of your portfolio. As with the outcome of the presidential election, you can’t control this risk and so there’s no use in worrying about it. Take comfort in that fact and enjoy your celebration or self-medication on January 20.

Allan Eberhart is a Professor of Finance and Founding Director of the Master of Science in Finance Program at Georgetown University. Follow him on twitter @ProfAEberhart