Britain's redundant red telephone boxes get makeover



Britain's redundant red telephone boxes get makeover

Updated

On the outskirts of London, rows of red telephone boxes sit rusting in a "graveyard".

Their paint peels, their glass slowly cracks and weeds grow where thousands of calls were once made.

That's until Christian Lewis comes along to strip, repaint and rewire the cast iron British icons, so they look as good as new.

"We get enquiries from across the globe and for a fully refurbished older model they sell for up to 12,500 pounds ($21,000)," the restoration expert says.

"We recently sold one to Ozzy Osbourne.

"Today we live in a different world where a phone box is an anonymous flat packed thing that's designed [for someone] to set fire to it or break it.

"These were beautiful things that were meant to be looked after and I think the public appreciate that."

Payphone drastically declined

Many phone boxes on the streets of central London are more often used as a photo prop for tourists than for actual payphone calls.

Every year more across Britain are ripped out.

"Payphones are going through a complete transformation," head of payphones at BT Neil Scoresby says.

"Everyone's carrying around a mobile phone these days so we don't have so much demand."

But many communities want to keep their phone box and the telecommunications giant puts the redundant boxes up for "adoption" for $1.68.

Red telephone boxes given new purpose

Some 3,500 now have new lives, housing defibrillators, salad bars, souvenir shops and even tiny coffee shops.

"It's small but I've got used to it," Umar Khalid, who runs micro-coffee shop Kape Barako in north London, says.

"I can only utilise 60 centimetres square so I had to fit coffee machine, grinder everything in there.

"It's now a tourist attraction — lots of people take photos."

On the other side of the city, Lewisham locals have set up a micro-library, which is complete with shelves and a regular supply of new books.

"I love it," Lewisham resident Eoin Beford says.

"It's always nice to have amenities for people and particularly at a time when some of the libraries are shutting."

Some red telephone boxes will keep on ringing

There is occasionally community opposition when the much-loved, yet underutilised boxes are removed from the street.

But some have significant heritage value and BT is promising they won't completely disappear from the streets any time soon.

"We'll be retaining many red payphones because we know they're popular with residents and tourists," Mr Scoresby says.

"We're incredibly proud of them too."

Topics: information-and-communication, travel-and-tourism, lifestyle-and-leisure, united-kingdom

First posted