Clinton Global Initiative to Close Amid Drop in Foreign Donations

Clinton Global Initiative to Close Amid Drop in Foreign Donations // // The Clinton Global Initiative is closing its doors for good, Ed Henry reported this morning. Henry said on "Fox & Friends" that, according to a new filing, the Clinton Global Initiative will lay off 22 people and close its main office in New York. He said that the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) is a key part of the overall foundation, hosting a yearly event for world leaders to showcase the Clintons' clout. The Clinton campaign denied that money from foreign donors to the foundation was tied to access to the former secretary of state. The New York Observer reported : [...] as soon as Clinton lost the election, many of the criticisms directed toward the Clinton Foundation were reaffirmed. Foreign governments began pulling out of annual donations, signaling the organization’s clout was predicated on donor access to the Clintons, rather than its philanthropic work. In November, the Australian government confirmed it “has not renewed any of its partnerships with the scandal-plagued Clinton Foundation, effectively ending 10 years of taxpayer-funded contributions worth more than $88 million. Henry said the "kicker" is that the CGI is planning to close on tax day, April 15, after previously re-filing years of returns due to mistakes. Watch the report above.

The Clinton Global Initiative is closing its doors for good, Ed Henry reported this morning.

Henry said on "Fox & Friends" that, according to a new filing, the Clinton Global Initiative will lay off 22 people and close its main office in New York.

He said that the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) is a key part of the overall foundation, hosting a yearly event for world leaders to showcase the Clintons' clout.

The Clinton campaign denied that money from foreign donors to the foundation was tied to access to the former secretary of state.

The New York Observer reported:

[...] as soon as Clinton lost the election, many of the criticisms directed toward the Clinton Foundation were reaffirmed. Foreign governments began pulling out of annual donations, signaling the organization’s clout was predicated on donor access to the Clintons, rather than its philanthropic work. In November, the Australian government confirmed it “has not renewed any of its partnerships with the scandal-plagued Clinton Foundation, effectively ending 10 years of taxpayer-funded contributions worth more than $88 million.

Henry said the "kicker" is that the CGI is planning to close on tax day, April 15, after previously re-filing years of returns due to mistakes.

Watch the report above.

Report: George Soros Lost Nearly a Billion Dollars in the Market After Trump Win

Judge Jeanine: DOJ Probe of Comey Is 'Nonsense,' Lynch Should Be the Target

Inauguration Workers Cover Up 'Don's Johns' on Portable Toilets on Capitol Hill