Ezekiel Elliott of Dallas Cowboys on probe -- NFL seems to be dragging feet
Elliott on probe: NFL seems to be dragging feet
Elliott on probe: NFL seems to be dragging feet Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Brady named Super Bowl MVP after historic rally Brady's jersey missing after Super Bowl LI Falcons' Ryan on loss: 'There are no words' Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE Pats' Kraft calls title 'unequivocally the sweetest' Accused McKnight shooter pleads innocent Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Behind the scenes of Super Bowl 51 Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Full stop. Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Players recall how the biggest plays of Super Bowl LI went down Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Sports world reacts to Patriots' remarkable Super Bowl LI comeback New England tied for best ATS season ever With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback How the Patriots converted both two-point tries The five best commercials from Super Bowl LI Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Adam Schefter explains where the NFL's investigation into Ezekiel Elliott's ongoing  domestic violence case leaves the running back as the Cowboys forge ahead in the postseason. (1:05) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered NFL since 1997, Cowboys since 2003 Previously covered Bengals and Dolphins Lives in Dallas area with his wife and two children Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment FRISCO, Texas -- Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott wants the NFL's investigation into domestic violence claims that were not pursued by legal authorities to end. "I do want closure," Elliott told reporters after the Cowboys' 34-31 loss to the Green Bay Packers on Sunday. "I would rather it not drag on this long. If there was something to find, which there's not, they would've found it by now. The police did a very thorough investigation. I will tell you this -- it just seems like they're dragging their feet right now. Who knows, man? I'm just ready for it to end." Elliott played his rookie season under the cloud of suspicion regarding a domestic violence incident involving a former girlfriend last July, and the NFL's investigation has not yet concluded. League sources told ESPN's Adam Schefter the NFL has submitted follow-up questions to Elliott within the last month, and Elliott is still in the process of responding. A player does not have to be charged in the legal system to be suspended by the NFL for a violation of the personal conduct policy. Over the summer, Elliott's ex-girlfriend posted pictures of her bruised arms on Instagram and tagged Elliott, sparking an investigation that has lasted all season. Police in Aventura, Florida, were also called to Elliott's apartment in February to investigate an altercation involving the same woman, according to a report by USA Today Sports. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Adam Schefter explains where the NFL's investigation into Ezekiel Elliott's ongoing domestic violence case leaves the running back as the Cowboys forge ahead in the postseason. (1:05)

FRISCO, Texas -- Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott wants the NFL's investigation into domestic violence claims that were not pursued by legal authorities to end.

"I do want closure," Elliott told reporters after the Cowboys' 34-31 loss to the Green Bay Packers on Sunday. "I would rather it not drag on this long. If there was something to find, which there's not, they would've found it by now. The police did a very thorough investigation. I will tell you this -- it just seems like they're dragging their feet right now. Who knows, man? I'm just ready for it to end."

Editor's Picks Sources: NFL queries Elliott on assault claims Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott is still in the process of responding to the NFL's questions related to assault accusations made against him, sources told ESPN.

Elliott played his rookie season under the cloud of suspicion regarding a domestic violence incident involving a former girlfriend last July, and the NFL's investigation has not yet concluded. League sources told ESPN's Adam Schefter the NFL has submitted follow-up questions to Elliott within the last month, and Elliott is still in the process of responding.

A player does not have to be charged in the legal system to be suspended by the NFL for a violation of the personal conduct policy.

Over the summer, Elliott's ex-girlfriend posted pictures of her bruised arms on Instagram and tagged Elliott, sparking an investigation that has lasted all season. Police in Aventura, Florida, were also called to Elliott's apartment in February to investigate an altercation involving the same woman, according to a report by USA Today Sports.