How 'genderless nipples' is challenging Instagram's nudity policy
How 'genderless nipples' is challenging Instagram's nudity policy
Instagram's insistence on removing photos of any nipples belonging to women (and only women) is well-known. One account, aligned with the #FreeTheNipple cause, is tricking the platform's strict nudity policies. Genderless_Nipples posts close-up photos of nipples that make it hard to tell whether the photo is of a man or a woman. SEE ALSO: 'OITNB' star joins #FreeTheNipple campaign by Photoshopping women's nipples over his own Instagram has come under fire before for its strict stance on female nudity, even when that nudity is not sexualized. The app often removes photos showing women's nipples and does not do the same for men. The account, spotted by , has had photos of male nipples removed from its page since it started posting in December. Merry Nipples to all of you! ⭐️ A photo posted by Genderless Nipples (@genderless_nipples) on "Instagram, you can't even tell the difference between male and female nipples; who could!? So why even bother banning female nipples if they can be so similar?" the account holders wrote in a post . The account's bio implores users and Instagram to "support all genders" and change Instagram's policy on female nudity. We would LOVE to post more diverse nipples, but we are really only receiving the ones we post. Send us all your nips! All skin tones, tattooed, pierced, inverted, ... - we love them all! ❤️ A photo posted by Genderless Nipples (@genderless_nipples) on #FreeTheNipple activists have tried to outsmart Instagram before, most notably when women copied-and-pasted cutouts of male nipples over their own. BONUS: Glowing bike path in Dutch town is like a moving Van Gogh painting

Instagram's insistence on removing photos of any nipples belonging to women (and only women) is well-known. One account, aligned with the #FreeTheNipple cause, is tricking the platform's strict nudity policies.

Genderless_Nipples posts close-up photos of nipples that make it hard to tell whether the photo is of a man or a woman.

Instagram has come under fire before for its strict stance on female nudity, even when that nudity is not sexualized. The app often removes photos showing women's nipples and does not do the same for men.

The account, spotted by Paper Magazine, has had photos of male nipples removed from its page since it started posting in December.

Merry Nipples to all of you! ⭐️ A photo posted by Genderless Nipples (@genderless_nipples) on Dec 24, 2016 at 12:00am PST

"Instagram, you can't even tell the difference between male and female nipples; who could!? So why even bother banning female nipples if they can be so similar?" the account holders wrote in a post.

The account's bio implores users and Instagram to "support all genders" and change Instagram's policy on female nudity.

#FreeTheNipple activists have tried to outsmart Instagram before, most notably when women copied-and-pasted cutouts of male nipples over their own.