Sources: Trump labor pick Andrew Puzder has voiced second thoughts about nomination
Sources: Trump labor pick Andrew Puzder has voiced second thoughts about nomination
Sources: Trump labor pick Andrew Puzder has voiced second thoughts about nomination Updated 1848 GMT (0248 HKT) January 17, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Republican sources say Trump labor secretary pick Andrew Puzder may be having second thoughts A confirmation hearing has not yet been set for Puzder President-elect Donald Trump's choice to be labor secretary has voiced second thoughts in recent days, because of a relentless barrage of criticism from Democrats, labor unions and other liberal groups, a business ally and GOP sources tell CNN. I am looking forward to my hearing. This story has been updated

Story highlights Republican sources say Trump labor secretary pick Andrew Puzder may be having second thoughts

A confirmation hearing has not yet been set for Puzder

Washington (CNN) President-elect Donald Trump's choice to be labor secretary has voiced second thoughts in recent days, because of a relentless barrage of criticism from Democrats, labor unions and other liberal groups, a business ally and GOP sources tell CNN.

Andy Puzder is the CEO of the company that owns the Hardees and Carl's Jr. fast food chains.

"He may be bailing," said a Republican source plugged into the Trump transition effort. "He is not into the pounding he is taking, and the paperwork."

A Trump transition spokesperson declined to comment, but later pointed to a tweet made by Puzder after CNN's report, which said: "I am looking forward to my hearing."

I am looking forward to my hearing. — Andy Puzder (@AndyPuzder) January 16, 2017

Democrats and their allies have launched an aggressive campaign against Puzder, who opposes key Democratic workplace priorities, including the goal of a $15 federal minimum wage.

Read More