Man Pretending To Be Justin Bieber Allegedly Extorted A Child Into Sending Him Nude Photos
Man Pretending To Be Justin Bieber Allegedly Extorted A Child Into Sending Him Nude Photos
Police have arrested a man who allegedly posed as Justin Bieber to extort young fans into sending him their nude photos. According to , Bryan Asrary is being accused of monitoring Bieber’s Instagram page and targeting young girls who would comment on the posts. He allegedly sent a direct message to a 9-year-old girl in 2014, insisting he had a relationship with the pop star and could arrange a text meeting between the two. After he received the girl’s phone number, he sent her text messages posing as the singer, and later threatened to harm her if she did not send him nude photo. The child eventually sent him nude selfies and a video. reports Asrary allegedly threatened the girl again in 2016, claiming he would publish the images and footage if she did not send him more. The girl told her mother about the threats, and her mother then alerted the authorities. According to the online publication, when Asrary was confronted by police, he confessed to extorting the girl and other young fans into sending him their nude photos. He now faces several charges, including extortion and child pornography.

Police have arrested a man who allegedly posed as Justin Bieber to extort young fans into sending him their nude photos.

According to TMZ, Bryan Asrary is being accused of monitoring Bieber’s Instagram page and targeting young girls who would comment on the posts. He allegedly sent a direct message to a 9-year-old girl in 2014, insisting he had a relationship with the pop star and could arrange a text meeting between the two. After he received the girl’s phone number, he sent her text messages posing as the singer, and later threatened to harm her if she did not send him nude photo. The child eventually sent him nude selfies and a video.

TMZ reports Asrary allegedly threatened the girl again in 2016, claiming he would publish the images and footage if she did not send him more. The girl told her mother about the threats, and her mother then alerted the authorities.

According to the online publication, when Asrary was confronted by police, he confessed to extorting the girl and other young fans into sending him their nude photos. He now faces several charges, including extortion and child pornography.