Donald Trump can't stop getting baited by SNL, labels show 'bad television' on Twitter after Alec Baldwin sketch
Donald Trump can't stop getting baited by SNL, labels show 'bad television' on Twitter after Alec Baldwin sketch
Popular videos    How to dance if you want to seem attractive, according to study      Katy Perry has finally released her latest banger      Love Knot afternoon tea at Conrad London St. James      Emma Watson enters a surveillance dystopia in The Circle trailer   Over the weekend, returned once more to American TV screens, hosted by British actor Felicity Jones. Of course, the cast couldn’t help themselves, deciding to mock Donald Trump over claims regarding a ‘pee pee party’ in an alleged Russian dossier. The President-elect has once again been forced to use Twitter, calling the comedy show “the worst of NBC”, “not funny”, and “really bad television”. “NBC News is bad,” the soon-to-be Leader of the Free World wrote on social media, “but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television!” . @NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! Whether or not you believe Trump’s Twitter behaviour to be presidential is beside the point: the Republican has attacked on numerous occasions already, often picking out Alec Baldwin’s orange-faced impression for being particularly offensive. Baldwin has previously promised the President-elect he would stop mocking him on one condition: the public release of his tax returns . Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On Mexicans   “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Senator McCain   “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”   Getty Images     On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”   Getty Images     On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”   AFP/Getty Images     On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."   Getty Images     On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”   AFP/Getty Images     On president Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”   Getty Images     On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."   AFP/Getty Images     On Hilary Clinton's emails   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”   AFP/Getty Images     On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”   Getty Images     On tax loopholes   "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."   AFP/Getty Images     On his accuser   “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”   Getty Images     On his pro-life stance   “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable”   Getty Images     On his accusers   "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”   Getty Images     On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”   Getty Images  Unfortunately, is not the only show Trump’s spent time harassing. Since winning the US election, Trump has been critical of - a show he was the regular host of - and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Just four days until the inauguration! More about: SNL Saturday Night Live Donald Trump Comments

Over the weekend, SNL returned once more to American TV screens, hosted by British actor Felicity Jones. Of course, the cast couldn’t help themselves, deciding to mock Donald Trump over claims regarding a ‘pee pee party’ in an alleged Russian dossier.

The President-elect has once again been forced to use Twitter, calling the comedy show “the worst of NBC”, “not funny”, and “really bad television”.

“NBC News is bad,” the soon-to-be Leader of the Free World wrote on social media, “but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television!”

.@NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 15 January 2017

Whether or not you believe Trump’s Twitter behaviour to be presidential is beside the point: the Republican has attacked SNL on numerous occasions already, often picking out Alec Baldwin’s orange-faced impression for being particularly offensive.

Baldwin has previously promised the President-elect he would stop mocking him on one condition: the public release of his tax returns.

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On Mexicans “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.” AFP/Getty Images

2/18 On Senator McCain “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” Getty Images

3/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” AFP/Getty Images

4/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Getty Images

5/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” AFP/Getty Images

6/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." Getty Images

7/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” AFP/Getty Images

8/18 On president Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” Getty Images

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." AFP/Getty Images

10/18 On Hilary Clinton's emails “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” AFP/Getty Images

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” Getty Images

12/18 On tax loopholes "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." AFP/Getty Images

13/18 On his accuser “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” Getty Images

14/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” Getty Images

15/18 On his pro-life stance “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable” Getty Images

16/18 On his accusers "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Getty Images

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” Getty Images

18/18 On Hillary Clinton “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Getty Images

Unfortunately, SNL is not the only show Trump’s spent time harassing. Since winning the US election, Trump has been critical of New Celebrity Apprentice - a show he was the regular host of - and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Just four days until the inauguration!