Multiple Oregon Football Players Hospitalized Following Intense Workouts
Multiple Oregon Football Players Hospitalized Following Intense Workouts
Andrew Greif of reported on Jan. 16 that three Oregon Ducks football players, were hospitalized after "grueling strength and conditioning workouts." On Friday, Greif reported the three players have been released from the hospital, where they had been since late last week. On Jan. 17, The workouts that sent the three players to the hospital came after the team returned from its holiday break. Since the Ducks did not make a bowl game in 2016, the players worked out on their own during that time off before returning to team-sanctioned workouts. Oregon hired head coach Willie Taggart after a dismal 4-8 effort during the 2016 campaign. Taggart, who went 10-2 at South Florida last season, brought Oderinde with him from the Bulls. Taggart visited the hospitalized players, per Greif, who shared a statement the school released on behalf of the athletic department: The safety and welfare of all of our student-athletes is paramount in all that we do. While we cannot comment on the health of our individual students, we have implemented modifications as we transition back into full training to prevent further occurrences. We thank our medical staff and trainers for their continued monitoring of the students and we will continue to support our young men as they recover. Greif cited multiple sources who called the workouts similar to military basic training. Some players had elevated levels of creatine kinase, which Greif said is a symptom of rhabdomyolysis. Poutasi's mother said her son was diagnosed with Citing the NCAA medical handbook , Greif added that "a syndrome in which soft muscle tissue is broken down with 'leakage into the bloodstream of muscle contents.'" This isn't the first time athletes have been impacted by rhabdomyolysis, per Greif: The Ducks are training for what they hope will be a bounce-back 2017 season only two years removed from a College Football Playoff National Championship Game appearance. They'll open the season Sept. 2 against Southern Utah. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Thomas Boyd/Associated Press

Andrew Greif of The Oregonian reported on Jan. 16 that three Oregon Ducks football players, offensive lineman Doug Brenner, offensive lineman Sam Poutasi and tight end Cam McCormick, were hospitalized after "grueling strength and conditioning workouts."

On Friday, Greif reported the three players have been released from the hospital, where they had been since late last week.

On Jan. 17, strength and conditioning coach Irele Oderinde was suspended without pay for one month, according to Jen Beyrie The Oregonian.

The workouts that sent the three players to the hospital came after the team returned from its holiday break. Since the Ducks did not make a bowl game in 2016, the players worked out on their own during that time off before returning to team-sanctioned workouts.

Oregon hired head coach Willie Taggart after a dismal 4-8 effort during the 2016 campaign. Taggart, who went 10-2 at South Florida last season, brought Oderinde with him from the Bulls.

Taggart visited the hospitalized players, per Greif, who shared a statement the school released on behalf of the athletic department:

The safety and welfare of all of our student-athletes is paramount in all that we do. While we cannot comment on the health of our individual students, we have implemented modifications as we transition back into full training to prevent further occurrences. We thank our medical staff and trainers for their continued monitoring of the students and we will continue to support our young men as they recover.

Greif cited multiple sources who called the workouts similar to military basic training. Some players had elevated levels of creatine kinase, which Greif said is a symptom of rhabdomyolysis. Poutasi's mother said her son was diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis.

Citing the NCAA medical handbook, Greif added that rhabdomyolysis is "a syndrome in which soft muscle tissue is broken down with 'leakage into the bloodstream of muscle contents.'"

This isn't the first time athletes have been impacted by rhabdomyolysis, per Greif:

Reported Cases of Rhabdomyolysis Incident Year 8 Texas Women's University Volleyball Players 2016 13 University of Iowa Football Players 2011 24 McMinnville High School Football Players 2010 Source: The Oregonian

The Ducks are training for what they hope will be a bounce-back 2017 season only two years removed from a College Football Playoff National Championship Game appearance.

They'll open the season Sept. 2 against Southern Utah.