Bill Belichick Responds In Typical Fashion to Mike Tomlin Calling the Patriots 'A**holes'
Bill Belichick Responds In Typical Fashion to Mike Tomlin Calling the Patriots 'A**holes'
On Sunday night Antonio Brown gave us a rare glimpse of the immediate postgame festivities of an NFL team that just won a playoff game by broadcasting a Facebook Live video from the Steelers' locker room after their 18-16 victory over the Chiefs. Unfortunately, he also inadvertently broadcast coach Mike Tomlin giving their Conference Championship foes, the Patriots, some bulletin board material when he told his team "We just spotted these assholes [New England] a day and a half. They played yesterday. Our game got moved to tonight. We’re going to touch down at 4 o’clock in the fucking morning. So be it. We’ll be ready for their asses. But you ain’t got to tell them we’re coming." While it's more than fair to point out that a team playing in the conference title game doesn't need bulletin board material for added motivation, you still don't want to do anything to capture the attention of Bill Belichick and/or Tom Brady. Those guys are borderline sociopathic in their preparation as it is. That being said, it was no shock when Belichick was asked about the comments of his contemporary by sports radio station WEEI Belichick responded by telling the Boston-based production that he doesn't use social media apps like "Snapface" and "InstantChat," and therefore he doesn't care too much about the 17-minute long video Brown sent out: On @WEEI , Belichick asked about Tomlin's a-hole comment: "As you know I'm not on Snapface and all that so I don't really get those." More from Belichick, who loves screwing up the names of social-media platforms: "Not worried too much about what they put on InstantChat." This is not the first time Belichick has tried to be condescending by intentionally screwing up the names of social media sites. It's up to you to decide if he's overplaying how out of touch he is by butchering them so badly. And while this is the exact way we would've expected him to respond, if he goes for two with a 20-pt. lead this Sunday we'll know, without a shadow of a doubt, that this is BS.

On Sunday night Antonio Brown gave us a rare glimpse of the immediate postgame festivities of an NFL team that just won a playoff game by broadcasting a Facebook Live video from the Steelers' locker room after their 18-16 victory over the Chiefs. Unfortunately, he also inadvertently broadcast coach Mike Tomlin giving their Conference Championship foes, the Patriots, some bulletin board material when he told his team "We just spotted these assholes [New England] a day and a half. They played yesterday. Our game got moved to tonight. We’re going to touch down at 4 o’clock in the fucking morning. So be it. We’ll be ready for their asses. But you ain’t got to tell them we’re coming."

While it's more than fair to point out that a team playing in the conference title game doesn't need bulletin board material for added motivation, you still don't want to do anything to capture the attention of Bill Belichick and/or Tom Brady. Those guys are borderline sociopathic in their preparation as it is.

That being said, it was no shock when Belichick was asked about the comments of his contemporary by sports radio station WEEI. Belichick responded by telling the Boston-based production that he doesn't use social media apps like "Snapface" and "InstantChat," and therefore he doesn't care too much about the 17-minute long video Brown sent out:

On @WEEI, Belichick asked about Tomlin's a-hole comment: "As you know I'm not on Snapface and all that so I don't really get those." — Phil Perry (@PhilAPerry) January 16, 2017

More from Belichick, who loves screwing up the names of social-media platforms: "Not worried too much about what they put on InstantChat." — Phil Perry (@PhilAPerry) January 16, 2017

This is not the first time Belichick has tried to be condescending by intentionally screwing up the names of social media sites. It's up to you to decide if he's overplaying how out of touch he is by butchering them so badly. And while this is the exact way we would've expected him to respond, if he goes for two with a 20-pt. lead this Sunday we'll know, without a shadow of a doubt, that this is BS.