Yahoo hack: How to know if your account has been breached, and what to do next



Yahoo hack: How to know if your account has been breached, and what to do next

Updated

More than 3,000 government-linked email accounts have been compromised — but what does that actually mean? And has your account been affected?

The government-linked accounts were among 1 billion hacked as part of the Yahoo data breach, but data has also been stolen from MySpace, LinkedIn, Adobe, Dropbox, tumblr, Snapchat and Sony.

That means if you have an account with one of those companies, your data may have been stolen.

How can I check?

Microsoft's Troy Hunt runs haveibeenpwned.com that includes the details of most major data breaches, but doesn't yet contain the details of the latest Yahoo hack.

Oh no, I've been breached!

If your account has been breached, it means a couple of things.

Firstly, someone has the email address and password you used to log in to that website at the time of the data breach.

Secondly, someone could have accessed your account on that site.

Thirdly, if you use that same email address and password on other websites, then someone can potentially access those accounts too.

It does not necessarily mean your email account has been compromised.

What should I do?

You should immediately change your password on any user account you suspect may have been compromised.

If your password has been breached, make sure you are not using it on any other sites.

Internet security gurus have forever been saying you should use different passwords on different sites, but how many of us actually follow the advice?

Next you need to consider whether someone could have accessed personal information by logging on to the breached account, and if so what type of personal information?

You may need to make changes or be extra vigilant to make sure your privacy has not been compromised in any other ways.

Which websites have been breached?

Mr Hunt has published a database with 1.6 billion unique email addresses found in data stolen from different sites.

These are usually email addresses associated with user accounts on those services, and may indicate an account has been compromised.

The sites include:

MySpace — 360 million

LinkedIn — 165 million

tumblr — 65 million

Ashley Maddison — 31 million

Snapchat — 4.7 million (usernames and passwords not email addresses stolen)

What's a good password?

Here's a hint — if it contains "password," "qwerty" or "1234" it is a terrible password.

There are various lists of the most common passwords, but generally any consecutive numbers or letters are a bad idea.

Pets, spouses and children's names are also common passwords and are relatively easy to guess.

The general advice is to use a mix of upper case and lower case letters and numbers and make sure it is long.

Many sites offer two factor authentication which you can enable to make your account more secure.

Two-factor authentication is a login process that requires a password and one other form of authorisation, often through a different device. For example, you might need to enter a code that is sent by SMS to your mobile. Sites like your bank or corporate network may actually require it, but many others offer it as an optional security enhancement.

Topics: hacking, computers-and-technology, science-and-technology, australia

First posted