Ex-Black Panther: John Lewis 'Presided Over Destruction Of Black America'

Ex-Black Panther: John Lewis 'Presided Over Destruction Of Black America' // // // // // Mason Weaver, an author and former member of the Black Panther movement, said Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) presided over the "destruction of black America" in the years following his march with other Civil Rights leaders across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in 1965. Responding to Lewis' contention that President-elect Donald Trump is "not a legitimate president", Weaver called Lewis an "illegitimate Congressman." Weaver called Lewis a "Civil Rights turncoat" who has "collaborated with the Democratic Party to oppress black America." He said the people who beat and ran over Lewis and his fellow marchers that day were Democrats, also pointing to the party affiliation of former Gov. George Wallace (D-Ala.), an avowed segregationist of the time. "After they beat his behind on that bridge... he got up and joined them," Weaver said of Lewis. "He joined the oppressors and became a stooge for them." Weaver said he could not understand why any African-American could identify as a Democrat, calling them the "party of the Klan" and the "party that went to war to keep slaves." "If you're a real man, John Lewis, you stand up tomorrow and you apologize," Weaver said. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Mason Weaver, an author and former member of the Black Panther movement, said Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) presided over the "destruction of black America" in the years following his march with other Civil Rights leaders across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in 1965.

Responding to Lewis' contention that President-elect Donald Trump is "not a legitimate president", Weaver called Lewis an "illegitimate Congressman."

Weaver called Lewis a "Civil Rights turncoat" who has "collaborated with the Democratic Party to oppress black America."

'First 100 Days' Exclusive: Will McCain Support Tillerson Despite Russia Concerns?

O'Reilly: $500K Raised for AL Band to Attend Inauguration 'Repudiation of Race-Baiters'

'Shame on You': Bennett Rips Dems Who Plan to Skip Inauguration

He said the people who beat and ran over Lewis and his fellow marchers that day were Democrats, also pointing to the party affiliation of former Gov. George Wallace (D-Ala.), an avowed segregationist of the time.

"After they beat his behind on that bridge... he got up and joined them," Weaver said of Lewis. "He joined the oppressors and became a stooge for them."

Weaver said he could not understand why any African-American could identify as a Democrat, calling them the "party of the Klan" and the "party that went to war to keep slaves."

"If you're a real man, John Lewis, you stand up tomorrow and you apologize," Weaver said.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Conway: 'Disappointing' Civil Rights 'Legend' Lewis Using His Platform to Attack Trump

Krauthammer Explains Why Dems Skipping Inauguration Is 'Not a Good Sign'

MLK III Responds to Lewis Dispute After 'Constructive Meeting' With Trump