Get Set For A Desi Version Of 'Fifty Shades Of Grey' In This Web Series By Vikram Bhatt!
Get Set For A Desi Version Of 'Fifty Shades Of Grey' In This Web Series By Vikram Bhatt!
Get Set For A Desi Version Of 'Fifty Shades Of Grey' In This Web Series By Vikram Bhatt! We all know the fixation Indian directors have with Hollywood movies. The latest movie that has been 'Indianised' for us is ! Author EL James' popular novel series found its way into Hollywood when its movie was released in 2015. Even though it didn’t do as well as it was expected to, it did not deter the makers one bit. On the contrary, they decided to go ahead with their plan and come up with the second installment, which is all set to hit the silver screen on Valentine’s Day this year. Cut to India. Director Vikram Bhatt has taken inspiration from the series to launch a web series. Yes, you read that right - not a film but a full-throttle web series! Titled (Yes, they couldn’t come up with anything more cliché than this), the promo was released yesterday. It has managed to create ripples of excitement in the audience already. Describing his latest venture, Vikram Bhatt said, “It is erotica, the kind that lives in all of us… the sexual fantasies within us which we are often too frightened to talk about for the fear of being judged by society. Maaya is not afraid, it dares to talk of them!” The highlight of is its plot twist. Anastasia Steele's role is being played by Shama Sikander and guess what. Unlike its Hollywood counterpart, our desi submissive is married! A Mumbai housewife, who is unhappy in her marriage, finds her way into the dark and exciting world of BDSM – Bondage, Dominance/Submission, Sadism and Masochism(for the uninitiated).

We all know the fixation Indian directors have with Hollywood movies. The latest movie that has been 'Indianised' for us is Fifty Shades Of Grey!

youtube

Author EL James' popular novel series Fifty Shades Of Grey found its way into Hollywood when its movie was released in 2015. Even though it didn’t do as well as it was expected to, it did not deter the makers one bit. On the contrary, they decided to go ahead with their plan and come up with the second installment, Fifty Shades Darker, which is all set to hit the silver screen on Valentine’s Day this year.

popsugar

Cut to India. Director Vikram Bhatt has taken inspiration from the series to launch a web series. Yes, you read that right - not a film but a full-throttle web series!

YouTube

Titled Maaya (Yes, they couldn’t come up with anything more cliché than this), the promo was released yesterday. It has managed to create ripples of excitement in the audience already.

Describing his latest venture, Vikram Bhatt said, “It is erotica, the kind that lives in all of us… the sexual fantasies within us which we are often too frightened to talk about for the fear of being judged by society. Maaya is not afraid, it dares to talk of them!”

YouTube

The highlight of Maaya is its plot twist. Anastasia Steele's role is being played by Shama Sikander and guess what. Unlike its Hollywood counterpart, our desi submissive is married!

YouTube

A Mumbai housewife, who is unhappy in her marriage, finds her way into the dark and exciting world of BDSM – Bondage, Dominance/Submission, Sadism and Masochism(for the uninitiated).

Now if you compare the original with this one there is one massive twist in the tale. After you get over the sexual fantasies she lives with her Dominant partner, the heroine is said to be suffering from Retrograde Amnesia which makes her forget her colorful escapades.

YouTube

Meanwhile, the husband finds out about his wife’s unfaithfulness and plans vengeance. He goes behind her back and has an affair with another woman. The saga captures all the chaos that follows mixed up with some ‘kinky fuckery’ - a term Ana came up with in the book/Hollywood movie.

Maaya also stars Veer Aryan, Vipul Gupta, Aradhya Taing and Parina Chopra, apart from Shama Sikander.

Without further ado, here's the trailer:

The web series will kick off on January 27th which also happens to be Bhatt’s birthday.