European leaders defiant against Donald Trump's labelling of NATO as 'obsolete'



European leaders defiant against Donald Trump's labelling of NATO as 'obsolete'

Updated

Stunned European leaders are reacting with defiance to the US President-elect Donald Trump labelling the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) "obsolete".

Key points: French President says Europe has "no need for outside advice"

Donald Trump criticised Angela Merkel for allowing 1 million refugees into her country

John Kerry called Mr Trump's comments 'inappropriate'

Mr Trump also predicted that the European Union would continue to fracture.

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said there were "no signals that there is an easing of tensions" when he spoke to European foreign ministers and NATO foreign ministers.

"I think all of the NATO member states read the interview with the same concerns as myself," he said.

"It is difficult to read the interview to the end without feeling concerned."

French President Francois Hollande went further by saying that Europe "has no need for outside advice to tell it what to do".

But EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini urged her peers to remain calm.

"It's very important for us all to refrain from unilateral actions," she said.

In a speech at the German Chambers of Commerce, Chancellor Angela Merkel did not mention Mr Trump by name, but did indirectly respond to his remarks.

"We are experiencing a Europe that is certainly showing signs of uncertainty," she said.

"The referendum in Great Britain was a great shock for us all and is a big slash in the future of the Union.

"I think we must now focus all our energy on two things, firstly to continue good relations with Great Britain.

"There are many, many reasons and not just trade commitments but also we are NATO partners, and we are tied together in friendship."

Ms Merkel said in her speech that now more than ever, Germany held a position of great responsibility and she was ready to fight for her principles.

"I beg you, don't go for short-sighted opportunism too quickly but stand by the principles that we have acknowledged over and over again," she said.

"He who won't fight for his ideals of basic principles, he who goes for the small short-term advantage and gives up his foundations can not achieve success in the long-term."

Trump's comments inappropriate: John Kerry

Mr Trump had earlier criticised Ms Merkel for allowing 1 million refugees into her country last year.

But US Secretary of State John Kerry praised the German Chancellor for her welcoming policy.

"I think she's been extraordinarily courageous, I think she's been extraordinarily important to Europe as an entity and we, the Obama administration, have valued her leadership enormously," he said.

He told CNN that Mr Trump should not get into the habit of commenting directly on the issues of US allies.

"Frankly it was inappropriate for a president-elect of the United States to be stepping in to the politics of other countries in a quite direct manner," he said.

European leaders have been holding their breath to see just what happens after Mr Trump's inauguration on Friday.

Already he has called Brexit a "great idea", saying it had paved the way for other countries to leave the block.

Topics: us-elections, government-and-politics, foreign-affairs, world-politics, european-union, germany, italy, united-states

First posted