MH370: Families express dismay as search ends after three years with mystery unsolved
MH370: Families express dismay as search ends after three years with mystery unsolved
lmost three years after MH370 disappeared during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, the search is over – and the plane remains missing. In a joint statement, Malaysia, Australia and China said an underwater search spanning 46,000 square miles in the southern Indian Ocean has been completed. But the plane, which was carrying 239 passengers, has not been found . “Today the last search vessel has left the underwater search area,” said the statement, released in Australia on Tuesday afternoon. “ Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has not been located… Despite every effort using the best science available, cutting edge technology, as well as modelling and advice from highly skilled professionals who are the best in their field, unfortunately, the search has not been able to locate the aircraft.” he statement added: “Accordingly, the underwater search for MH370 has been suspended.” The decision to suspend the operation disappointed the family members of passengers, who have begun conducting their own search for debris. A report released by the Australian search agency last month advised that – if the plane was not found in the existing zone – it was most likely to be in a 9,653 square-mile to the north. But the nations leading the search appear to have decided not to follow the advice  and instead have suspended an operation that is believed to be the most complex hunt in aviation history. The cost has been estimated at £90 million. he joint statement by the three transport ministers of Malaysia, Australia and China said the search would be suspended until any new information emerged. “The decision to suspend the underwater search has not been taken lightly nor without sadness,” the statement said. “Whilst combined scientific studies have continued to refine areas of probability, to date no new information has been discovered to determine the specific location of the aircraft… We remain hopeful that new information will come to light and that at some point in the future the aircraft will be located.” The lack of resolution has caused agony for family members of the flight's passengers, who have begged officials to continue the hunt for their loved ones. A next-of-kin support group called Voice 370 said it was "dismayed" by the announcement, adding that investigators could not leave the matter unsolved. "In our view, extending the search to the new area defined by the experts is an inescapable duty owed to the flying public in the interest of aviation safety," Voice 370 said. "The whole series of events since the plane disappeared has been nothing but frustrating," said Grace Nathan, a Malaysian whose mother was on board Flight 370. "It continues to be frustrating and we just hope they will continue to search. ... They've already searched 120,000 square kilometers. What is another 25,000?" he cause of the plane’s disappearance remains an enduring mystery. Some aviation experts believe that the timing of the plane’s disappearance – as it was switching between national airspaces – as well as its subsequent route and its ability to fly for hours after its communications went down all indicate that the pilot or co-pilot must have been involved. However, investigators have found no firm evidence that the plane was sabotaged – and some experts have blamed a mechanical fault. ince the Boeing 777 went missing in March 2014, debris has washed up in beaches along the coastline of Mozambique, Tanzania, Madagascar, Reunion Island and Mauritius. The joint statement paid tribute to those involved in the search and to those who lost their lives. “Today’s announcement is significant for our three countries, but more importantly for the family and friends of those on board the aircraft,” the statement said. “We again take this opportunity to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives and acknowledge the enormous loss felt by their loved ones.”

Almost three years after MH370 disappeared during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, the search is over – and the plane remains missing.

In a joint statement, Malaysia, Australia and China said an underwater search spanning 46,000 square miles in the southern Indian Ocean has been completed. But the plane, which was carrying 239 passengers, has not been found.

“Today the last search vessel has left the underwater search area,” said the statement, released in Australia on Tuesday afternoon.

“Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has not been located… Despite every effort using the best science available, cutting edge technology, as well as modelling and advice from highly skilled professionals who are the best in their field, unfortunately, the search has not been able to locate the aircraft.”