Justin Trudeau under investigation for possible ethics violation over Bahamas trip
Justin Trudeau under investigation for possible ethics violation over Bahamas trip
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is under investigation for a holiday he took on a private island belonging to a billionaire spiritual leader. Canada’s federal conflict-of-interest and ethics office said it was probing whether the visit to the island, which took place over the new year, broke rules preventing ministers from accepting bribes. Mr Trudeau said he was “more than happy” to answer the commissioner’s questions. Read more Justin Trudeau encourages a more realistic view on Canada 'Genuine leaders are in short supply', says Joe Biden Justin Trudeau cries as he is reunited with Syrian refugee The island is owned by Prince Shah Karim Al Hussaini Aga Khan - leader to the world’s 15 million Ismaili Muslims, a denomination of Shia Islam. He also heads a foundation that is a registered lobbyist that has received hundred of millions in grants from the federal government in recent decades The 71-year-old is a close family friend of the Canadian Prime Minister and was an honorary pallbearer at the funeral of Mr Trudeau's father, Pierre. He chairs a development network, which promotes investment in Asia and Africa, and is considered the world’s 11th richest royals – just ahead of the Queen – according to Forbes . Mr Trudeau was accompanied on the trip to the billionaire's island by his family and two fellow Liberal politicians: MP Seamus O'Reagan and Party President Anna Gainey.   Obama makes the same crap joke every time he sees Justin Trudeau The destination of the visit was initially kept secret, with the Prime Minister's office claiming it was necessary to protect the Trudeau family's privacy. But after news of the location leaked, Mr Trudeau went on the record about the vacation, admitting using the Aga Khan's private helicopter. Mr Trudeau defended the secrecy shrouding the visit at a press conference: "This was our personal family vacation and the questions you're asking, I allow you to reflect on them." Yet the helicopter ride the prime minister admitted to taking may violate rules introduced underhis own leadership, which bans government ministers from accepting sponsored travel on private aircraft without permission from the ethics commissioner. The Canadian leader is also under investigation for separate allegations that he broke conflict-of-interest laws by attending Liberal Party fundraisers where small groups met with him after making 1,500 Canadian dollar (£946) donations. Justin Trudeau               Justin Trudeau    Day out   The family get in the boat with climate change   AP     Keeping fit   Jogging over the Alexandria bridge with the Mexican president   AP     Family comes first   “Sophie inspires me every day to be better. I wouldn’t be here tonight if it weren’t for her leadership and her example."   AP     Three-way handshake   Trudeau has vowed to strengthen international relations.   Twitter     Bromance   Friendship with the White House   The White House     Pandas   Just because.   Twitter     Yoga   The plank became an internet sensation   Twitter     Making history   Trudeau's gender-balanced cabinet was the first of its kind   AP  The two inquiries, which are the first time Mr Trudeau has been investigated for breaching such ethics rules, threaten to undermine Mr Trudeau's claims of leading an "open and transparent" government. Yet fall-out from the probes will only be political, since the ethics office can only hand out small fines. The investigation comes Mr Trudeau turned down a visit to the annual World Economic Forum in Davos so he could travel around Canada, in what has been seen as a move to connect to ordinary Canadians. More about: Justin Trudeau Aga Khan Comments

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is under investigation for a holiday he took on a private island belonging to a billionaire spiritual leader.

Canada’s federal conflict-of-interest and ethics office said it was probing whether the visit to the island, which took place over the new year, broke rules preventing ministers from accepting bribes.

Mr Trudeau said he was “more than happy” to answer the commissioner’s questions.

The island is owned by Prince Shah Karim Al Hussaini Aga Khan - leader to the world’s 15 million Ismaili Muslims, a denomination of Shia Islam.

He also heads a foundation that is a registered lobbyist that has received hundred of millions in grants from the federal government in recent decades

The 71-year-old is a close family friend of the Canadian Prime Minister and was an honorary pallbearer at the funeral of Mr Trudeau's father, Pierre.

Justin Trudeau vows to defend women and stick up to Trump

He chairs a development network, which promotes investment in Asia and Africa, and is considered the world’s 11th richest royals – just ahead of the Queen – according to Forbes.

Mr Trudeau was accompanied on the trip to the billionaire's island by his family and two fellow Liberal politicians: MP Seamus O'Reagan and Party President Anna Gainey.

The destination of the visit was initially kept secret, with the Prime Minister's office claiming it was necessary to protect the Trudeau family's privacy.

But after news of the location leaked, Mr Trudeau went on the record about the vacation, admitting using the Aga Khan's private helicopter.

Mr Trudeau defended the secrecy shrouding the visit at a press conference: "This was our personal family vacation and the questions you're asking, I allow you to reflect on them."

Yet the helicopter ride the prime minister admitted to taking may violate rules introduced underhis own leadership, which bans government ministers from accepting sponsored travel on private aircraft without permission from the ethics commissioner.

The Canadian leader is also under investigation for separate allegations that he broke conflict-of-interest laws by attending Liberal Party fundraisers where small groups met with him after making 1,500 Canadian dollar (£946) donations.

Justin Trudeau







8 show all Justin Trudeau













1/8 Day out The family get in the boat with climate change AP

2/8 Keeping fit Jogging over the Alexandria bridge with the Mexican president AP

3/8 Family comes first “Sophie inspires me every day to be better. I wouldn’t be here tonight if it weren’t for her leadership and her example." AP

4/8 Three-way handshake Trudeau has vowed to strengthen international relations. Twitter

5/8 Bromance Friendship with the White House The White House

6/8 Pandas Just because. Twitter

7/8 Yoga The plank became an internet sensation Twitter

8/8 Making history Trudeau's gender-balanced cabinet was the first of its kind AP

The two inquiries, which are the first time Mr Trudeau has been investigated for breaching such ethics rules, threaten to undermine Mr Trudeau's claims of leading an "open and transparent" government.

Yet fall-out from the probes will only be political, since the ethics office can only hand out small fines.

The investigation comes Mr Trudeau turned down a visit to the annual World Economic Forum in Davos so he could travel around Canada, in what has been seen as a move to connect to ordinary Canadians.