If You Can Get 10/10 On This Quiz, You Must Work At Dunder-Mifflin
If You Can Get 10/10 On This Quiz, You Must Work At Dunder-Mifflin
Phyllis wins Flonkerton in a photo finish.                   The captain of the cruise — who has to deal with an extra annoying Michael the whole evening — is Captain Jack.                It was Creed, but only because he kept stealing chips all night.                   Dwight wants to be frozen so that he can have the time to learn the moves he needs to defeat the person who killed him.                Michael plans to jump from the roof onto a bounce house procured by Dwight and Andy.                Dwight has the diary to keep secrets from his computer, but he uses it to prove that the disastrous Golden Tickets were Michael’s idea.                   They play , which Jim is terrible at.                   Andy gets a role in , which is interrupted by his ringing cell phone, popping balloons, a rolling wine bottle, and Cece crying.                   Oscar explains at the garage sale that he keeps getting DVDs as gifts even though he’s not a fan.                   Dwight, Creed, and Kevin all dress up as the Joker, much to Kevin’s dismay.  If You Can Get 10/10 On This Quiz, You Must Work At Dunder-Mifflin  You clearly don’t work at Dunder-Mifflin.     You know a few things about the greatest paper supply office in the country, but not a lot. Maybe you work there and just sleep at your desk a lot. Are you Stanley?     You’re clearly an expert in all things Dunder-Mifflin, so you must be a valued employee deserving of a shiny Dundie award.     You DEFINITELY work at Dunder-Mifflin. In fact, you know so much about the people there, you’re probably the regional manager…or at least the assistant to the regional manager.    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   Drake Spoke Out Against President Trump Last Night...    Which Character From The Office Would Be Your Work...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.