7 Ways To Eat Healthier This Week
7 Ways To Eat Healthier This Week
Add lentils to spaghetti sauce for extra fiber and protein. joanne-eatswellwithothers.com Here’s a vegetarian version — but you could easily do this with a meat-based sauce, too. Pick one night this week to prep an easy, make-ahead salad for the next day’s lunch. To get you started, here are a dozen go-to salad ideas that BuzzFeed readers swear by.  Switch up your hummus game by DIY’ing these versions that are equal parts delicious, colorful, and good for you: Lauren Zaser / BuzzFeed This hummus trio blends protein-packed chickpeas with spicy roasted carrots; fresh green herbs and garlic; and lemony beets. : Fire up your slow cooker and try one of these better-for-you ideas for dinner: Find Crock Pot-ready recipes for chili, chicken soup, spaghetti squash, and more here .  Freeze leftover Greek yogurt or pureed greens into ice cube trays for ready-to-use boosters that you can pop into smoothies. mayihavethatrecipe.com popsugar.com Cheers to smoothies that basically make themselves. More on yogurt bites here, and freezing greens here. Curb cravings by snacking on foods high in healthy fats — like toast with peanut butter or avocado. As Liz Moody, healthy food blogger and founder of Sprouted Routes , explained to BuzzFeed Health: “This may sound counterintuitive but when trying to lose weight, many people make the mistake of cutting fat from their diet, which can leave them feeling super hungry, cranky, and less likely to stick to the plan long-term (which is key!). , or giving up too soon.”  For a seasonal, oven-baked sweet treat, stuff pears with pecans + cinnamon, then drizzle with honey. If you don’t have pecans, walnuts or granola would work perfectly too. Find the full recipe here , and find out what else is in season this month here .    Cheesy Cornbread-Topped Chili    Bacon-Wrapped Slow Cooker Pulled Pork  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.