Traffic Deaths Continued To Rise In 2016, But Reasons Why Are Elusive
Traffic Deaths Continued To Rise In 2016, But Reasons Why Are Elusive
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Cheryl and Christopher Jensen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Mark Rosekind, Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, speaks during a news conference. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) More bad news about traffic fatalities was delivered Friday by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. In the first nine months of 2016, an estimated 27,875 people died in motor vehicle crashes on our roadways. That is an increase of about 8% compared to the 25,808 fatalities in the first nine months of 2015. And 2015 itself was a record breaker. Traffic deaths in 2015 spiked 7.2% over 2014, which was the largest percentage increase in 50 years. But it seems that the federal agency is not much closer to finding answers to this complex problem, according to Friday's online meeting with representatives from the private sector, academia and safety organizations. N.H.T.S.A. representatives said that more than 100 people had called in to the meeting. And there was no discussion about possible reasons for why traffic deaths increased so greatly in some regions of the country but not in others. Fatalities increased 20% in Region 1, which comprises Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont, but only 1% in Region 8, which comprises Colorado, Nevada, North and South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming. You might think “population” looking at those extremes but not necessarily. Here are the other regions and their increases: Fatalities increased by 2% in Region 2 (New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania); by 4% in Region 3 (District of Columbia, Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia); by 15% in Region 4 (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee); by 4% in Region 5 (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin); by 11% in Region 6 (Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas); by 12% in Region 7 (Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska); by 5% in Region 9 (Arizona, California and Hawaii); and by 3% in Region 10 (Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington). The meeting was seen as a progress report in the agency's efforts to find out what is causing the rise in traffic deaths and to come up with strategies to combat it. Those efforts started with a “call to action” to data scientists and public health experts in August of 2016 to help it find the reasons for the increase. And then in October it launched a Road to Zero coalition to present a 30-year plan to get to zero traffic deaths. N.H.T.S.A. is trying to involve anyone and everyone who might have information or studies to share, who might want to use its fatality data for studies, and to link individuals, companies, organizations and academia to get to the bottom of what’s happening.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Cheryl Jensen

More bad news about traffic fatalities was delivered Friday by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

In the first nine months of 2016, an estimated 27,875 people died in motor vehicle crashes on our roadways. That is an increase of about 8% compared to the 25,808 fatalities in the first nine months of 2015.

And 2015 itself was a record breaker. Traffic deaths in 2015 spiked 7.2% over 2014, which was the largest percentage increase in 50 years.

But it seems that the federal agency is not much closer to finding answers to this complex problem, according to Friday's online meeting with representatives from the private sector, academia and safety organizations. N.H.T.S.A. representatives said that more than 100 people had called in to the meeting.

And there was no discussion about possible reasons for why traffic deaths increased so greatly in some regions of the country but not in others.

Fatalities increased 20% in Region 1, which comprises Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont, but only 1% in Region 8, which comprises Colorado, Nevada, North and South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming. You might think “population” looking at those extremes but not necessarily. Here are the other regions and their increases:

Fatalities increased by 2% in Region 2 (New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania);

by 4% in Region 3 (District of Columbia, Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia);

by 15% in Region 4 (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee);

by 4% in Region 5 (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin);

by 11% in Region 6 (Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas);

by 12% in Region 7 (Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska);

by 5% in Region 9 (Arizona, California and Hawaii); and

by 3% in Region 10 (Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington).

The meeting was seen as a progress report in the agency's efforts to find out what is causing the rise in traffic deaths and to come up with strategies to combat it. Those efforts started with a “call to action” to data scientists and public health experts in August of 2016 to help it find the reasons for the increase. And then in October it launched a Road to Zero coalition to present a 30-year plan to get to zero traffic deaths.

N.H.T.S.A. is trying to involve anyone and everyone who might have information or studies to share, who might want to use its fatality data for studies, and to link individuals, companies, organizations and academia to get to the bottom of what’s happening.