James Harrison celebrated the Steelers' win in the most James Harrison way possible
James Harrison celebrates win in most James Harrison way possible
James Harrison celebrates win in most James Harrison way possible Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Steelers cut former Browns top-10 pick Gilbert Oh, baby: Parents call pre-rally newborn Brady SB draws 111.3M viewers on Fox, down slightly Plenty on to-do list for 49ers' Kyle Shanahan, John Lynch Jerry Rice on Larry Fitzgerald's decision: 'I hope he's at peace with it' Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Seahawks can take valuable lessons away from Super Bowl LI Chiefs can beat Super Bowl teams -- in regular season Potential QB options for the Browns in 2017 Terrell Owens shouldn't hurt Calvin Johnson's HOF chances, but first ballot is no lock Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Steelers should stop giving up draft picks for other teams' cornerbacks Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Ryan Clark isn't shocked at all to see James Harrison workout in Pittsburgh right after the Steelers returned from Kansas City. (1:54) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment At 3:46 a.m. ET on Monday, the Pittsburgh Steelers ' Twitter account alerted fans that they had made it home from their grueling 18-16 divisional-playoff win in Kansas City on Sunday. We're back home. 🛬 Thanks for making the trip with us, #SteelersNation . — Pittsburgh Steelers (@steelers) January 16, 2017 It's fair to assume that the next step for most on the plane was to find the nearest bed. This rings particularly true for 38-year-old linebacker James Harrison , who played all but three of Pittsburgh's 58 defensive snaps and was involved in arguably the biggest play of the game . Instead, Harrison went to an early morning gym session.  Speed 600 A video posted by James Harrison (@jhharrison92) on

Ryan Clark isn't shocked at all to see James Harrison workout in Pittsburgh right after the Steelers returned from Kansas City. (1:54)

Clark the least surprised with Harrison's postgame workout (1:54)

At 3:46 a.m. ET on Monday, the Pittsburgh Steelers' Twitter account alerted fans that they had made it home from their grueling 18-16 divisional-playoff win in Kansas City on Sunday.

We're back home. 🛬



Thanks for making the trip with us, #SteelersNation. — Pittsburgh Steelers (@steelers) January 16, 2017

It's fair to assume that the next step for most on the plane was to find the nearest bed. This rings particularly true for 38-year-old linebacker James Harrison, who played all but three of Pittsburgh's 58 defensive snaps and was involved in arguably the biggest play of the game.

Instead, Harrison went to an early morning gym session.

Speed 600 A video posted by James Harrison (@jhharrison92) on Jan 16, 2017 at 2:10am PST

Banded takeoffs A video posted by James Harrison (@jhharrison92) on Jan 16, 2017 at 2:29am PST

Bar back raises A video posted by James Harrison (@jhharrison92) on Jan 16, 2017 at 2:44am PST

Between the New York Giants wide receivers' controversial Miami trip, Antonio Brown's Facebook Live mishap and now Harrison, this NFL season, if nothing else, has provided us a range of interesting reactions to wins.