WATCH: Little Girl Wows With Amazing Taylor Swift Impersonation

WATCH: Little Girl Wows With Amazing Taylor Swift Impersonation // // A seven-year-old girl has become a worldwide sensation after her amazing impersonation of Taylor Swift went viral. Xiamara Vigor brought the house down with her rendition of Swift's 2008 hit "You Belong With Me" on the Filipino television show "Your Face Sounds Familiar: Kids." The show is a singing competition in which kids emulate their idols. Vigor had her Swift impression down pat, with the pop star's signature red lipstick, finger wagging, eye rolling and hair flipping. The audience and the show’s judges were left stunned by the two-minute routine, which even included a costume change. After her performance wowed the internet she said on her official Instagram account, "I just did what I love to do and magical things started to happen." Vigor is a child star in the Philippines and appears in a primetime family TV show. Watch the incredible performance above, and share your reaction in the comments.

A seven-year-old girl has become a worldwide sensation after her amazing impersonation of Taylor Swift went viral.

Xiamara Vigor brought the house down with her rendition of Swift's 2008 hit "You Belong With Me" on the Filipino television show "Your Face Sounds Familiar: Kids."

The show is a singing competition in which kids emulate their idols.

Vigor had her Swift impression down pat, with the pop star's signature red lipstick, finger wagging, eye rolling and hair flipping.

The audience and the show’s judges were left stunned by the two-minute routine, which even included a costume change.

After her performance wowed the internet she said on her official Instagram account, "I just did what I love to do and magical things started to happen."

Vigor is a child star in the Philippines and appears in a primetime family TV show.

Watch the incredible performance above, and share your reaction in the comments.

NYPD: 12-Year-Old Boy Tried to Rob Classmate of Chicken McNugget at Gunpoint

Beware Netflix Customers! Email Scam Targeting Users' Personal Info

Man Gets Back at DMV by Paying Car Taxes With 300K Pennies

Krispy Kreme Employee Writes 'Black Lives Matter' on Officer's Order