Former CIA rendition agent issues plea to Donald Trump as she faces jail in Italy
Former CIA rendition agent issues plea to Donald Trump as she faces jail in Italy
former CIA agent who is about to be jailed in Italy for her role in a snatch operation against a jihadist suspect, has pleaded to President-elect Donald Trump to review her case and “stop this precedent of US diplomats and US military intelligence officers being convicted by foreign courts”. Sabrina de Sousa was one of 23 US officials convicted in absentia by an Italian court in 2009 for their roles in the “extraordinary rendition” of Abu Omar, an Egyptian citizen the CIA plucked from a street in Milan in February 2003 before handing him over to the authorities in Egypt. In October 2015 Ms de Sousa was arrested in Portugal under a European Arrest Warrant when she was planning to fly on to India in order to visit her mother. Ms De Sousa has since battled extradition from Portugal to Italy, where she faces a sentence of five years in prison for her part in the abduction of Abu Omar. She has lost all of her appeals. “I am awaiting extradition. On Tuesday I am scheduled to see a doctor who will appraise whether I am fit to fly,” the 61-year-old US citizen told The Telegraph, adding that she had recently undergone eye surgery. Ms De Sousa spoke out on Fox News on Monday night against the lack of interest in her case shown by the outgoing Obama administration. “The US Embassy in Portugal reached out to me to process me for this extradition. You know, to make sure my travel documents are up to date and sign the privacy waiver. The notion itself is a little bit surreal.” s De Sousa says she will be the first CIA operative and US diplomat to be jailed in a foreign country, claiming that she played a minor role in the abduction of Abu Omar by translating certain documents. I’m optimistic,” she said when asked about the possible impact of Trump’s presidency on her case. “This case requires proper investigation and accountability, and that needs to take place in Washington, not in a foreign court.” Ms De Sousa’s lawyer in Portugal, Manuel Magalhães e Silva, says that Italy has gone back on a promise to offer his client a retrial because it does not wish to reveal the level of cooperation between US and Italian secret services in the abduction operation. “She could not be convicted without things being clarified. The Abu Omar affair is a murky one between Italy and the CIA.” Abu Omar was released without charge four years after being handed over to the Egyptian authorities, who, he has since claimed, subjected him to torture while in jail.

A former CIA agent who is about to be jailed in Italy for her role in a snatch operation against a jihadist suspect, has pleaded to President-elect Donald Trump to review her case and “stop this precedent of US diplomats and US military intelligence officers being convicted by foreign courts”.

Sabrina de Sousa was one of 23 US officials convicted in absentia by an Italian court in 2009 for their roles in the “extraordinary rendition” of Abu Omar, an Egyptian citizen the CIA plucked from a street in Milan in February 2003 before handing him over to the authorities in Egypt.

In October 2015 Ms de Sousa was arrested in Portugal under a European Arrest Warrant when she was planning to fly on to India in order to visit her mother. Ms De Sousa has since battled extradition from Portugal to Italy, where she faces a sentence of five years in prison for her part in the abduction of Abu Omar. She has lost all of her appeals.

“I am awaiting extradition. On Tuesday I am scheduled to see a doctor who will appraise whether I am fit to fly,” the 61-year-old US citizen told The Telegraph, adding that she had recently undergone eye surgery.

Ms De Sousa spoke out on Fox News on Monday night against the lack of interest in her case shown by the outgoing Obama administration.