Brexit: What will be the short-term damage when the UK leaves the EU single market?



Brexit: What will be the short-term damage when the UK leaves the EU single market?

Updated

The UK is heading for a hard Brexit after Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May confirmed that when the UK leaves the EU, it will also be withdrawing from Europe's single market.

In a landmark speech Ms May made it clear that she would be prioritising immigration control over remaining a member of the EU's internal market, which was set up to remove barriers to trade.

Instead the conservative Prime Minister hopes Britain will be able to strike a series of bold new trade agreements.

During the Brexit referendum, Ms May made it clear that if the UK left the EU and the single market, Britain would be worse off.

Now as prime minister, she is leading the push to leave both institutions.

What is a single market? A group of nations who agree to remove barriers to trade

Goods, people, services and capital move around as freely as within a single country

Citizens can study, live, shop, work and retire in any member state

"What I am proposing cannot mean membership of the single market. European leaders have said many times that membership means accepting the four freedoms of goods, capital, services and people," she said.

Ms May is not willing to sacrifice control over immigration for membership of the single market.

She is now banking on being able to quickly negotiate tariff free trade with the EU and fast track free trade agreements with a wide range of nations.

"So an important part of the new strategic partnership we seek with the EU will be the pursuit of the greatest possible access to the single market on a fully reciprocal basis through a comprehensive free trade agreement," she said.

But trade agreements can take years to negotiate.

Short-term damage on trade

The EU has preferential trade deals with over 50 countries and is in the middle of negotiating another 70 plus — the UK would have to re-negotiate deals with all of these countries.

And what damage could withdrawing from those preferential deals have in the short term?

Last year a leaked memo from Treasury warned that if the UK left the single market the country's GDP could fall by as much as 9.5 per cent.

Liberal Democrats leader Tim Farron shares those concerns.

"To take us out of the single market without even arguing our case, to wave the white flag across the cliffs of Dover, as Theresa may has just done and give up what's best for Britain is an insult to business, it is damaging to Britain's future."

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn says his party will be holding the PM to account to make sure Britain gets some form of access to the single market.

"I think we have to have a deal that ensures we have access to the market, we have British jobs dependent on the market, that's what we will be pushing for."

Ms May believes the mutual interests of the EU and the UK will overcome any desire to punish Britain over trade. But if that is not the case, the Prime Minister has a warning.

"No deal for Britain is better than a bad deal for Britain. Because we would still be able to trade with Europe, we would still be free to strike trade deals across the world, and we would have the freedom to set a competitive tax rates and embrace the policies that would attract the world's best companies and biggest investors to Britain."

Ms May has now outlined some of the key objectives behind her Brexit strategy, but it will be a while yet until we know what the true impact will be on the British economy.

Topics: trade, international-aid-and-trade, business-economics-and-finance, globalisation---economy, economic-trends, government-and-politics, united-kingdom, european-union

First posted