Betty White Through the Years - ABC News



Betty White is seen here in her senior year in 1940 Beverly Hills High School in Beverly Hills, California. Seth Poppel/Yearbook Library

Betty White is seen in her sophomore year in the Beverly Hills High School yearbook, 1937. Seth Poppel/Yearbook Library

American actress Betty White (left), actor Eddie Albert, and an unidentified woman pose in front of the a KLAC-TV camera during a broadcast of the talk show, 'Hollywood on Television,' Los Angeles, California, 1952. Nigel Dobinson/Getty Images

American actor Betty White sits in a canvas chair with her name written on the back, looking over her shoulder in a backyard garden, circa 1956. Hulton Archive/Getty Images

Betty White stared alongside Bill Williams in "Date with the Angels" which aired Sept. 6, 1957. ABC/Getty Images

American actor Betty White stands smiling with her husband, TV producer and host Allen Ludden at an International Broadcasting Awards dinner tribute to Mary Tyler Moore, March 19, 1974. Frank Edwards/Getty Images

Betty White is seen in a 1977 promotional photo for "The Betty White Show." CBS/Getty Images

"The Betty White Show" featuring Betty White and John Hillerman, 1977. CBS via Getty Images

Mary Tyler Moore as Mary Richards sits at her desk as Betty White as Sue Ann Nivens talks to her and Gavin MacLeod as Murray Slaughter listens, in a scene from 'The Mary Tyler Moore Show', Los Angeles. CBS Photo Archive/Getty Images

Betty White is seen on Sept. 21, 1986 at the Emmy Awards. Ron Galella/Getty Images

Betty White, Bea Arthur, Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty appear on the TV show "Golden Girls". ABC

Ever the dog lover, Betty White is photographed during Old Navy Nationwide Search for New Canine Mascot, April 2006, Franklin Canyon Park in Beverly Hills, Calif. E. Charbonneau/Getty Images

Actress Betty White makes a few remarks after being named an honorary Forest Ranger at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts on November 9, 2010 in Washington, DC. Paul Morigi/Getty Images

This image provided by Snickers shows part of a television ad featuring actress Betty White scheduled to air during the 2010 Super Bowl. Snickers/AP Photo

Actress Betty White attends the unveiling of her wax figure at Madame Tussauds Hollywood, June 4, 2012, in Los Angeles. David Livingston/Getty Images

Actors Valerie Bertinelli, Jane Leeves, Wendy Malick and Betty White appear onstage at the 25th Anniversary Genesis Awards at the Century Plaza Hotel on March 19, 2011 in Los Angeles, California. Kevin Winter/Getty Images

U.S. President Barack Obama talks with actress Betty White in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington, June 11, 2012. Pete Souza/The White House

Betty White spoofs Miley Cyrus' 'wrecking ball' video in a TV promo for her show "Betty White's Off Their Rockers." Lifetime

Betty White arrives for "An Evening with Betty White," May 10, 2012, in North Hollywood, Calif. Toby Canham/Getty Images