Katy Perry Debuts New Blonde Hair at Trump Portrait Unveiling
Katy Perry Debuts New Blonde Hair at Trump Portrait Unveiling
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Katy Perry Debuts New Blonde Hair at Trump Portrait Unveiling  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Katy Perry appeared at her friend -- artist Sham Ibrahim’s -- art exhibit in Palm Springs on Saturday (Jan. 14) as Ibrahim unveiled her portrait of President-elect Donald Trump. But that wasn’t the only thing that debuted that night, as Perry showed off her new blonde locks. A giddy Perry posed with Ibrahim -- as well as alongside the artist's portrait of Trump as a diaper-clad baby, toying with an American-flag emblazoned cut-out of the United States.  Later, the singer left to celebrate her boyfriend Orlando Bloom’s 40 birthday at a onesie surprise party. Perry will be attending the Women's March on Washington on Jan. 21 -- the first day of Trump's presidential administration. View another shot of Perry's new hair-do (and Trump's portrait) below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Sham Ibrahim and Katy Perry pose for a photo with a Donald Trump portrait at Oscar's on Jan. 14, 2017 in Palm Springs, Calif. Â

Katy Perry appeared at her friend -- artist Sham Ibrahim’s -- art exhibit in Palm Springs on Saturday (Jan. 14) as Ibrahim unveiled her portrait of President-elect Donald Trump. But that wasn’t the only thing that debuted that night, as Perry showed off her new blonde locks.

A giddy Perry posed with Ibrahim -- as well as alongside the artist's portrait of Trump as a diaper-clad baby, toying with an American-flag emblazoned cut-out of the United States.

Later, the singer left to celebrate her boyfriend Orlando Bloom’s 40th birthday at a onesie surprise party.

Perry will be attending the Women's March on Washington on Jan. 21 -- the first day of Trump's presidential administration.

View another shot of Perry's new hair-do (and Trump's portrait) below.