Chinese President Defends Globalisation At Davos, Says No One Can Win Trade War
Chinese President Defends Globalisation At Davos, Says No One Can Win Trade War
Chinese President Defends Globalisation At Davos, Says No One Can Win Trade War In three days, Donald Trump is all set to assume the Oval Office as the 45 President of The US and the entire world is on its toes, waiting to see how global economic policies and political relationships will get affected. China’s President Xi Jinping, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland’s Davos has defended globalisation. He began his opening lines at the forum by quoting Charles Dickens: “It was the best of time, it was the worst of times”. Xi Jinping said, “We live in a time of incredible change. We face global challenges like terrorism and refugees.” And people are wondering what has gone wrong? Globalisation, which was once seen as a treasury cave is now seen as “Pandora’s box”. He said protectionism is not the way forward for trade and “no-one will emerge as a winner in a trade war.” “Pursuing protectionism is just like locking oneself in a dark room,” he told global leaders at the forum. The Chinese President added that the global financial crisis wasn’t a result of globalisation but of failed regulation. He quoted a Chinese proverb in the same context: “Honey melons hang from bitter vines.” And continued by saying, “Nothing is perfect in this world.” The President also urged that there is “no point” in pointing fingers at globalisation for problems facing the world today. The refugee crisis and the Arab Spring did not happen because of open markets, he said. "It is true that economic globalization created new problems but this is no justification to write off economic globalization altogether. Rather we should adapt to and guide economic globalization, cushion its negative impacts and deliver its benefits for all countries," he said.

In three days, Donald Trump is all set to assume the Oval Office as the 45th President of The US and the entire world is on its toes, waiting to see how global economic policies and political relationships will get affected. China’s President Xi Jinping, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland’s Davos has defended globalisation.

Reuters

He began his opening lines at the forum by quoting Charles Dickens: “It was the best of time, it was the worst of times”.

Xi Jinping said, “We live in a time of incredible change. We face global challenges like terrorism and refugees.” And people are wondering what has gone wrong? Globalisation, which was once seen as a treasury cave is now seen as “Pandora’s box”.

Reuters

He said protectionism is not the way forward for trade and “no-one will emerge as a winner in a trade war.”

“Pursuing protectionism is just like locking oneself in a dark room,” he told global leaders at the forum. The Chinese President added that the global financial crisis wasn’t a result of globalisation but of failed regulation.

He quoted a Chinese proverb in the same context: “Honey melons hang from bitter vines.” And continued by saying, “Nothing is perfect in this world.”

Reuters

The President also urged that there is “no point” in pointing fingers at globalisation for problems facing the world today. The refugee crisis and the Arab Spring did not happen because of open markets, he said.

"It is true that economic globalization created new problems but this is no justification to write off economic globalization altogether. Rather we should adapt to and guide economic globalization, cushion its negative impacts and deliver its benefits for all countries," he said.

The solution, he continued, for war, conflict and regional turmoil lies in “promising peace and restoring stability.