Exclusive: Premiere of ONI's 'The Only Cure' Video Featuring Lamb of God's Randy Blythe
Exclusive: Premiere of ONI's 'The Only Cure' Video Featuring Lamb of God's Randy Blythe
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Exclusive: Premiere of ONI's 'The Only Cure' Video Featuring Lamb of God's Randy Blythe  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Canadian progressive metal band ONI's debut album, (Blacklight Media/Metal Blade Records), features a menacing beast on its cover: a massive horned statue of an , which is a demon from Japanese folklore. And the group majorly amped up the creepy factor for its new video for album track "The Only Cure." The somewhat NSFW clip features a torture scenario straight out of a camp horror movie that contains a few squeamish moments. But the video treatment for the song — which features frontman Jake Oni trading vocal licks with none other than Lamb of God singer Randy Blythe—is as straightforward as you could get in terms of being a visual representation for the track. “'The Only Cure' is about a guy getting captured by a serial killer and getting killed by getting his chest cut open," explains Oni. "I came up with the gory ideas for the video. The song is about someone getting their chest cut open, so I felt like it would have been wrong to make the music video any other way."  Oni adds that "The Only Cure" is "one of the stronger songs on the album," which was produced by Josh Wilbur (Lamb of God, Gojira ). "It’s a good representation of our current sound and where we will be going." Blythe helped co-write the track with Oni, who showed Blythe lyrics that he was writing, which gave Blythe an idea of what Oni was going for. "His ear for rhythm is awesome," enthuses Oni. Director Abraham Roofeh, who shot ONI's first music video, for "Eternal Recurrence," is known for his work in creating branded content for such major names as Sarah Jessica Parker, and Schwinn. Watch the video for "The Only Cure" below: Blythe says of the clip, "What a super-creepy video! Horror fans will love it. The production is Hollywood film-quality; it looks like something out of a or movie. I had a lot of fun with the ONI guys recording this track, and it's cool to see the music set to such dramatic scenery. Nightmares..." Meanwhile, ONI also kicks off a U.K. tour today (Jan. 17) with Devil You Know . The two acts will play the following dates this month: Jan. 17 - Glasgow, Scotland @ G2 Jan. 18 - Newcastle upon Tyne, England @ the Cluny Jan. 19 - Nottingham, England @ Rescue Rooms Jan. 20 - Sheffield, England @ Corporation Jan. 22 - London, England @ Underworld Jan. 23 - Swansea, Wales @ the Scene Jan. 24 - Bristol, England @ the Fleece Jan. 25 - Southampton, England @ Talking Heads For more information about ONI, visit the band's Facebook page.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Canadian progressive metal band ONI's debut album, Ironshore (Blacklight Media/Metal Blade Records), features a menacing beast on its cover: a massive horned statue of an oni, which is a demon from Japanese folklore. And the group majorly amped up the creepy factor for its new video for album track "The Only Cure."

The somewhat NSFW clip features a torture scenario straight out of a camp horror movie that contains a few squeamish moments. But the video treatment for the song — which features frontman Jake Oni trading vocal licks with none other than Lamb of God singer Randy Blythe—is as straightforward as you could get in terms of being a visual representation for the track.

“'The Only Cure' is about a guy getting captured by a serial killer and getting killed by getting his chest cut open," explains Oni. "I came up with the gory ideas for the video. The song is about someone getting their chest cut open, so I felt like it would have been wrong to make the music video any other way."

Oni adds that "The Only Cure" is "one of the stronger songs on the album," which was produced by Josh Wilbur (Lamb of God, Gojira). "It’s a good representation of our current sound and where we will be going." Blythe helped co-write the track with Oni, who showed Blythe lyrics that he was writing, which gave Blythe an idea of what Oni was going for. "His ear for rhythm is awesome," enthuses Oni.

Director Abraham Roofeh, who shot ONI's first music video, for "Eternal Recurrence," is known for his work in creating branded content for such major names as Sarah Jessica Parker, Esquire and Schwinn.

Watch the video for "The Only Cure" below:

Blythe says of the clip, "What a super-creepy video! Horror fans will love it. The production is Hollywood film-quality; it looks like something out of a Saw or Hostel movie. I had a lot of fun with the ONI guys recording this track, and it's cool to see the music set to such dramatic scenery. Nightmares..."

Meanwhile, ONI also kicks off a U.K. tour today (Jan. 17) with Devil You Know. The two acts will play the following dates this month:

Jan. 17 - Glasgow, Scotland @ G2

Jan. 18 - Newcastle upon Tyne, England @ the Cluny

Jan. 19 - Nottingham, England @ Rescue Rooms

Jan. 20 - Sheffield, England @ Corporation

Jan. 22 - London, England @ Underworld

Jan. 23 - Swansea, Wales @ the Scene

Jan. 24 - Bristol, England @ the Fleece

Jan. 25 - Southampton, England @ Talking Heads

For more information about ONI, visit the band's Facebook page.