Delhi Molester Couldn't Even Keep Count Of His Victims + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Delhi Molester Couldn't Even Keep Count Of His Victims + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Delhi Molester Couldn't Even Keep Count Of His Victims + 5 Other Major Reads From Today The 38-year-old man who was arrested here yesterday for allegedly sexually assaulting hundreds of minor girls told police he used to "derive fun" out of the act and had his "first prey" in 2001. Sunil Rastogi also told the police he is superstitious and would travel to Delhi from Rudrapur in Uttarkhand only by Sampark Kranti Express and wore a red jacket every time he came here thinking it was "lucky" for him. His parents stay in Gharoli area near New Ashok Nagar and he used to come once a week to visit them when he targeted the minor girls, they said. Read more here Here are 5 more stories for you: 1. My Statement Is Based On Scientific Research And Journals, Says Rajasthan Minister On His Cow Comment It seems like being trolled on the internet for his bizarre comment that "cow is the only animal to exhale oxygen", has not affected Rajasthan education minister Vasudev Devnani. He said that his statement on Saturday which was widely mocked was based on scientific journals and research papers. Read more here 2. These IAS Aspirants Are Helping India's Sex Workers Go Cashless On November 8, 2016, the world came crashing down for many when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his demonetisation move. Over two months later, even as the nation limps towards some semblance of normalcy, there are those who remain relegated to the margins of the digital payment world, for whom e-wallets and ATM cards are an entirely alien concept. Of these, perhaps the most wretched are commercial sex workers — the stigma of their profession barring them from the education and awareness required to use alternatives to cash. In a bid to bring these workers into the cashless arena, a group of civil service aspirants from the city decided to take this learning to the sex workers at Budhwar Peth and make them aware of their options. Read more here

Womanindia/Representational Image

The 38-year-old man who was arrested here yesterday for allegedly sexually assaulting hundreds of minor girls told police he used to "derive fun" out of the act and had his "first prey" in 2001.

Sunil Rastogi also told the police he is superstitious and would travel to Delhi from Rudrapur in Uttarkhand only by Sampark Kranti Express and wore a red jacket every time he came here thinking it was "lucky" for him.

His parents stay in Gharoli area near New Ashok Nagar and he used to come once a week to visit them when he targeted the minor girls, they said. Read more here

Here are 5 more stories for you:

1. My Statement Is Based On Scientific Research And Journals, Says Rajasthan Minister On His Cow Comment

BCCL/ File

It seems like being trolled on the internet for his bizarre comment that "cow is the only animal to exhale oxygen", has not affected Rajasthan education minister Vasudev Devnani.

He said that his statement on Saturday which was widely mocked was based on scientific journals and research papers. Read more here

2. These IAS Aspirants Are Helping India's Sex Workers Go Cashless

BCCL

On November 8, 2016, the world came crashing down for many when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his demonetisation move. Over two months later, even as the nation limps towards some semblance of normalcy, there are those who remain relegated to the margins of the digital payment world, for whom e-wallets and ATM cards are an entirely alien concept.

Of these, perhaps the most wretched are commercial sex workers — the stigma of their profession barring them from the education and awareness required to use alternatives to cash.

In a bid to bring these workers into the cashless arena, a group of civil service aspirants from the city decided to take this learning to the sex workers at Budhwar Peth and make them aware of their options. Read more here

3. Facebook, Twitter & YouTube Might Asked To Help Set Up A Secretariat To Fight Child Porn

amazonaws.com

For the first time in India, the government will create a one-stop secretariat exclusively to deal with complaints of online child porn comprising child rights activists, law enforcement officials as well as bureaucrats.

This comes a day after 38-year-old Sunil Rastogi, a tailor by profession, was arrested for attempting to molest two minor girls. He confessed to police that he has attempted to assault more than 2,500 minors in the last 12 years.

On Monday, the women and child development ministry held a meeting with representatives of the ministry of home affairs, department of information and technology, Delhi police, Andhra Pradesh police and a number of NGOs working in the area of child sexual abuse to kickstart a national alliance against child porn in the new digital era. Read more here

4. BJP Gives Election Ticket To Ganesh Joshi, Whose Strikes Caused The Death Of Shaktiman The Hors

BCCL

BJP MLA from Mussoorie, Ganesh Joshi who had been embroiled in controversy after a video emerged of him hitting a police horse went viral has been given the election ticket once again.

The sitting MLA from Mussoorie will contest the polls from the same seat in the upcoming state assembly elections.

Joshi had come under severe criticism from across the board, including political parties and animal rights groups for his action.

The MLA who had initially denied allegations was however charged with animal cruelty.

The police horse was wounded on the back limb in an attack by Joshi and others during an opposition protest against the state government in March. Read more here

5. A More Powerful Odd-Even Scheme Might Return As Part Of Delhi's New Pollution Action Plan

BCCL

Concerned over high air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR, Centre today empowered the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control and Prevention Authority (EPCA) to enforce the Graded Response Action Plan under which odd-even scheme and halt on construction activities may be imposed across the region if air quality remains at the 'emergency' level for 48-hours.

The ambitious plan, first of its kind in the country, also envisages the roll out of a host of other emergency measures including closure of schools, power plants and advisories asking people to avoid polluted areas and restrict outdoor movement. Read more here