BJP Has Given Election Ticket To Ganesh Joshi, Who Unwarranted Blows Caused The Death Of Police Horse Shaktiman
BJP Gives Election Ticket To Ganesh Joshi, Whose Strikes Caused The Death Of Shaktiman The Hors
BJP Has Given Election Ticket To Ganesh Joshi, Who Unwarranted Blows Caused The Death Of Police Horse Shaktiman BJP  MLA from Mussoorie, Ganesh Joshi who had been embroiled in controversy after a video emerged of him hitting a police horse went viral has been given the election ticket once again. The sitting MLA from Mussoorie will contest the polls from the same seat in the upcoming state assembly elections. Joshi had come under severe criticism from across the board, including political parties and animal rights groups for his action. The MLA who had initially denied allegations was however charged with animal cruelty. The police horse was wounded on the back limb in an attack by Joshi and others during an opposition protest against the state government in March. Despite being amputated and fitted with a prosthetic leg , it died in April last year due to infection. After the death of Shaktiman, under fire Joshi had offered to chop off his own legs if found guilty. The state government had erected a life-size statue of the horse in the state capital, but it mysteriously disappeared just days before the inauguration.

BJP MLA from Mussoorie, Ganesh Joshi who had been embroiled in controversy after a video emerged of him hitting a police horse went viral has been given the election ticket once again.

BCCL

The sitting MLA from Mussoorie will contest the polls from the same seat in the upcoming state assembly elections.

Joshi had come under severe criticism from across the board, including political parties and animal rights groups for his action.

BCCL

The MLA who had initially denied allegations was however charged with animal cruelty.

The police horse was wounded on the back limb in an attack by Joshi and others during an opposition protest against the state government in March.

BCCL

Despite being amputated and fitted with a prosthetic leg, it died in April last year due to infection.

After the death of Shaktiman, under fire Joshi had offered to chop off his own legs if found guilty.

The state government had erected a life-size statue of the horse in the state capital, but it mysteriously disappeared just days before the inauguration.