Chelsea Handler blames Trump's presidency on the Kardashians
Chelsea Handler blames Trump's presidency on the Kardashians
As usual, Chelsea Handler has a hot take. In a new interview with , Handler shared her interesting perspective on the Kardashian's role in getting Donald Trump elected. SEE ALSO: Chelsea Handler to lead 'Women's March' at the Sundance Film Festival When asked what people could have done differently during the presidential campaign, Handler had a straightforward response: "Stop covering [Trump] so much." "They were treating him as an entertainer first. It was a reality show. We’ve turned into a reality show," she explained. "I blame the Kardashians, personally; the beginning of the end was the Kardashians. The way these people have blown up and don’t go away — it’s surreal. Everyone is for sale," she said, alluding to the fact that both the Trump and Kardashian families have benefitted from riding the coattails of countless headlines and media attention, despite the often ludicrous "content" they generate. While Handler may be known for her celebrity commentary, she hasn't been shying away from talking politics as of late. Her guests on the Netflix talk show include the usual slew of celebrities, but also a variety of  representatives and political commentators—like U.S. secretary of education John King, Jr, or CNN's Van Jones.  But Handler has also been doing work outside of the small screen. The comedian will be leading a Women's March this week at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. This isn't the first time Handler has linked Trump's election to the Kardashian's fame. "I blame the Kardashians for Donald Trump," Handler said in a video for in September. "While you're busy filling your asses with whatever is in there, this is what rest of the country is dealing with, this lunatic! Not you Khloe, you're my favorite," she ranted. BONUS: NBD, just a massive alligator out for a stroll

As usual, Chelsea Handler has a hot take.

In a new interview with Variety, Handler shared her interesting perspective on the Kardashian's role in getting Donald Trump elected.

When asked what people could have done differently during the presidential campaign, Handler had a straightforward response: "Stop covering [Trump] so much."

"They were treating him as an entertainer first. It was a reality show. We’ve turned into a reality show," she explained.

"I blame the Kardashians, personally; the beginning of the end was the Kardashians. The way these people have blown up and don’t go away — it’s surreal. Everyone is for sale," she said, alluding to the fact that both the Trump and Kardashian families have benefitted from riding the coattails of countless headlines and media attention, despite the often ludicrous "content" they generate.

While Handler may be known for her celebrity commentary, she hasn't been shying away from talking politics as of late.

Her guests on the Netflix talk show Chelsea include the usual slew of celebrities, but also a variety of representatives and political commentators—like U.S. secretary of education John King, Jr, or CNN's Van Jones. But Handler has also been doing work outside of the small screen. The comedian will be leading a Women's March this week at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah.

This isn't the first time Handler has linked Trump's election to the Kardashian's fame.

"I blame the Kardashians for Donald Trump," Handler said in a video for Vanity Fair in September.

"While you're busy filling your asses with whatever is in there, this is what rest of the country is dealing with, this lunatic! Not you Khloe, you're my favorite," she ranted.