Ricky Rubio Trade Rumors: News, Speculation Surrounding Timberwolves Guard
Ricky Rubio Trade Rumors: News, Speculation Surrounding Timberwolves Guard
The Minnesota Timberwolves have finally done the seemingly inevitable, placing point guard Ricky Rubio on the trade block. Continue for updates. Marc Stein and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com reported Friday the Timberwolves and Detroit Pistons are discussing a multiplayer trade that would include Rubio and Pistons point guard Reggie Jackson. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical first reported on Jan. 17 that the Timberwolves are "actively" looking to move Rubio, though no trade is imminent. Forward Shabazz Muhammad is also being offered with Rubio in a package deal.  Rubio, 26, is averaging a career-low 7.6 points and 7.9 assists per game in his first season under coach Tom Thibodeau. Selected fifth overall in the 2009 draft, Rubio has been the cause of speculation since Minnesota selected Kris Dunn last June. Dunn hasn't done much to prove he's the point guard of the future. He enters Tuesday averaging 3.9 points, 2.3 assists and 2.1 rebounds, struggling with shot creation and jump shot consistency. The Timberwolves are reportedly looking for a "bridge" point guard who can ease Dunn's eventual transition into the starter role. They have had preliminary discussions with the Sacramento Kings but are holding out for a better package in return. Rubio's flaws are well-publicized and likely not changing at this point. His jumper and finishing ability near the rim are essentially broken. He has shot under 40 percent in each of his six NBA seasons and is currently knocking down a career-low 24.7 percent of his threes. Given that free-throw shooting is typically a good indicator of shot form and Rubio is an 81.9 percent free-throw shooter, it's fair to wonder if Rubio has hit a mental hurdle with his shot that he'll never get over.   Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Danny Bollinger/Getty Images

The Minnesota Timberwolves have finally done the seemingly inevitable, placing point guard Ricky Rubio on the trade block.

Continue for updates.

Wolves, Pistons Talk PG Swap

Saturday, Jan. 21

Marc Stein and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com reported Friday the Timberwolves and Detroit Pistons are discussing a multiplayer trade that would include Rubio and Pistons point guard Reggie Jackson.

"That is normal NBA personnel work," Pistons head coach Stan Van Gundy said, per Vince Ellis of the Detroit Free Press. "Nothing more. Nothing less.

"I texted Reggie and just said, 'This is crazy season and we're not trading you for Ricky Rubio.' That was it. I don't normally address it, but the fact that it was out there and it concerned his agent enough to call, I addressed it," Van Gundy said Saturday, per Aaron McMann of Mlive.com.

Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical first reported on Jan. 17 that the Timberwolves are "actively" looking to move Rubio, though no trade is imminent. Forward Shabazz Muhammad is also being offered with Rubio in a package deal.

Rubio's Offensive Flaws Limit His Upside

Rubio, 26, is averaging a career-low 7.6 points and 7.9 assists per game in his first season under coach Tom Thibodeau.

Selected fifth overall in the 2009 draft, Rubio has been the cause of speculation since Minnesota selected Kris Dunn last June. Dunn hasn't done much to prove he's the point guard of the future. He enters Tuesday averaging 3.9 points, 2.3 assists and 2.1 rebounds, struggling with shot creation and jump shot consistency.

The Timberwolves are reportedly looking for a "bridge" point guard who can ease Dunn's eventual transition into the starter role. They have had preliminary discussions with the Sacramento Kings but are holding out for a better package in return.

Rubio's flaws are well-publicized and likely not changing at this point. His jumper and finishing ability near the rim are essentially broken. He has shot under 40 percent in each of his six NBA seasons and is currently knocking down a career-low 24.7 percent of his threes. Given that free-throw shooting is typically a good indicator of shot form and Rubio is an 81.9 percent free-throw shooter, it's fair to wonder if Rubio has hit a mental hurdle with his shot that he'll never get over.

"I gotta be more aggressive. But at the same time, run the team," Rubio told Sports Illustrated's Andrew Sharp. "It's just something, 'Should I run the team or should I score?' I gotta learn how to balance that and be more aggressive sometimes."

Rubio's skills are also just as obvious. He's a preternatural passer and playmaker; perhaps only LeBron James is better at finding holes in open space. While rarely mentioned among the game's best defenders, Rubio averages 2.2 steals per game for his career, is a good on-ball defender and rarely makes mental errors. Only Chris Paul and Patrick Beverley have a better defensive RPM than Rubio, per ESPN.com.

On nights when Rubio is even an adequate shooter, he can look like one of the NBA's best point guards. But his flaws are so glaring in a league where shooting is more important than ever that it's likely he'll always be a polarizing player.

Wolves brass made their opinion on Rubio clear when they drafted Dunn.

Follow Tyler Conway (@jtylerconway) on Twitter.