How Alice's 'Resident Evil' homecoming will change everything (Paid Content by Sony)
How Alice's 'Resident Evil' homecoming will change everything (Paid Content)
All good stories come full circle, so it’s no surprise that we find ourselves back with Alice in the place where it all began in Resident Evil’s last installment: The Final Chapter. The sixth and final installment of the Resident Evil franchise is coming February 2017, and will see Alice’s final stand off with Umbrella Corp bring her right back to where the story began: Raccoon City. Since 2002 the Resident Evil film empire has grown to become the most successful film series based on a game of all time, grossing over $1 billion worldwide. As an iconic underdog character, the time to say goodbye to Alice will be bittersweet for fans around the world, who have followed her journey from Umbrella Corp agent to world defender and all round badass. Her journey to reach The Final Chapter has been a turbulent ride for all, and fans are eagerly waiting to discover just what Alice’s homecoming means – The Hive in Raccoon City is a place full of rocky memories for followers of the series. Ali Larter, Milla Jovovich and Ruby Rose star in Screen Gems' RESIDENT EVIL: THE FINAL CHAPTER. The Hive is the genetic research facility run by pharmaceutical company Umbrella Corp, hidden deep beneath Raccoon City. The beginning of Alice’s tale sees the deadly T-virus contained within The Hive - a virus which was never meant to break the surface of the control centre. As a security official for the Corporation, Alice has her memory wiped by the AI system in control of the area, while the T-virus mutates to create an army of the undead. As the story unfolds across the following four films, the epidemic of the T-virus outbreak threatens to end humanity, and it’s our heroine that stands between survival and extinction for the human race. Facing perils from zombies and humans alike, Alice finds herself in a number of nail-biting scenarios, and her last outing in The Final Chapter promises to bring her character full circle: she’s back to face The Hive. She’s lost countless friends and allies along the way to this final showdown, and the Alice of The Final Chapter has come a long way from the Alice we met in 2002’s original Resident Evil film. Will Alice be able to save humanity once and for all? Or will Umbrella Corp finally claim their most dangerous nemesis? The wait for answers is nearly over. Watch Next: Re-creating the web shooting scene from the original 'Spider-Man'

All good stories come full circle, so it’s no surprise that we find ourselves back with Alice in the place where it all began in Resident Evil’s last installment: The Final Chapter.

The sixth and final installment of the Resident Evil franchise is coming February 2017, and will see Alice’s final stand off with Umbrella Corp bring her right back to where the story began: Raccoon City. Since 2002 the Resident Evil film empire has grown to become the most successful film series based on a game of all time, grossing over $1 billion worldwide.

As an iconic underdog character, the time to say goodbye to Alice will be bittersweet for fans around the world, who have followed her journey from Umbrella Corp agent to world defender and all round badass. Her journey to reach The Final Chapter has been a turbulent ride for all, and fans are eagerly waiting to discover just what Alice’s homecoming means – The Hive in Raccoon City is a place full of rocky memories for followers of the series.

Ali Larter, Milla Jovovich and Ruby Rose star in Screen Gems' RESIDENT EVIL: THE FINAL CHAPTER.

The Hive is the genetic research facility run by pharmaceutical company Umbrella Corp, hidden deep beneath Raccoon City. The beginning of Alice’s tale sees the deadly T-virus contained within The Hive - a virus which was never meant to break the surface of the control centre. As a security official for the Corporation, Alice has her memory wiped by the AI system in control of the area, while the T-virus mutates to create an army of the undead.

As the story unfolds across the following four films, the epidemic of the T-virus outbreak threatens to end humanity, and it’s our heroine that stands between survival and extinction for the human race. Facing perils from zombies and humans alike, Alice finds herself in a number of nail-biting scenarios, and her last outing in The Final Chapter promises to bring her character full circle: she’s back to face The Hive. She’s lost countless friends and allies along the way to this final showdown, and the Alice of The Final Chapter has come a long way from the Alice we met in 2002’s original Resident Evil film.

Will Alice be able to save humanity once and for all? Or will Umbrella Corp finally claim their most dangerous nemesis? The wait for answers is nearly over.





Watch Next: Re-creating the web shooting scene from the original 'Spider-Man'