NASA Is Planning To Land On An Asteroid Worth $10,000 Million Billion!
NASA Is Planning To Land On An Asteroid Worth $10,000 Million Billion!
NASA Is Planning To Land On An Asteroid Worth $10,000 Million Billion! There's a mysterious piece of rock floating around in our solar system that could be worth $10,000 quadrillion dollars, we don't know how much is that. NASA is planning a mission to visit it. This asteroid measures about 210 kilometres in diameter. Take the distance from the Sun to the Earth, and triple that - that's how far away '16 Psyche' is located. According to Lindy Elkins-Tanton, the lead scientist on the NASA mission and the director of Arizona State University's School of Earth and Space Exploration, the asteroid's iron content would be worth US $10,000 quadrillion. "This is an opportunity to explore a new type of world - not one of rock or ice, but of metal," said Psyche Principal Investigator Lindy Elkins-Tanton of Arizona State University in Tempe in a news release. 16 Psyche is the only known object of its kind in the solar system, and this is the only way humans will ever visit a core. We learn about inner space by visiting outer space. Psyche, also a robotic mission, will be arriving at the asteroid in 2030, following an Earth gravity assist spacecraft manoeuvre in 2024 and a Mars flyby in 2025. The mission will help scientists understand how planets and other bodies separated into their layers - including cores, mantles and crusts - early in their histories.

There's a mysterious piece of rock floating around in our solar system that could be worth $10,000 quadrillion dollars, we don't know how much is that. NASA is planning a mission to visit it. This asteroid measures about 210 kilometres in diameter. Take the distance from the Sun to the Earth, and triple that - that's how far away '16 Psyche' is located.

According to Lindy Elkins-Tanton, the lead scientist on the NASA mission and the director of Arizona State University's School of Earth and Space Exploration, the asteroid's iron content would be worth US $10,000 quadrillion.

However, NASA isn't planning this mission to the nickel and iron asteroid for business reasons, but to assess if Psyche is a "protoplanet," or the exposed core of an early planet that lost its outer layers to numerous space collisions.

"This is an opportunity to explore a new type of world - not one of rock or ice, but of metal," said Psyche Principal Investigator Lindy Elkins-Tanton of Arizona State University in Tempe in a news release.

16 Psyche is the only known object of its kind in the solar system, and this is the only way humans will ever visit a core. We learn about inner space by visiting outer space. Psyche, also a robotic mission, will be arriving at the asteroid in 2030, following an Earth gravity assist spacecraft manoeuvre in 2024 and a Mars flyby in 2025.

The mission will help scientists understand how planets and other bodies separated into their layers - including cores, mantles and crusts - early in their histories.

Agency inputs