Finding Shelter From Trump's Tweet Storm
Finding Shelter From Trump's Tweet Storm
Finding Shelter From Trump's Tweet Storm   Autos  Brooke Sutherland is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering deals. She previously wrote an M&A column for Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Dealing with Donald Trump's Twitter rants is a new phenomenon for U.S. companies. For many of his favorite targets, creating jobs isn't. General Motors Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on Tuesday became the latest corporations to talk up the part they're playing in the president-elect's plan to become "the greatest jobs producer that God ever created." GM largely just summed up U.S. spending plans that had been in the works for a while, but it did so with panache , touting a $1 billion headline number and pledging to create or retain (emphasis on retain ) about 7,000 jobs. Only about 2,000 of those will be in factories. Wal-Mart, meanwhile, celebrated the planned addition of 10,000 retail jobs, even as it expands its store count at a slower pace. Wal-Mart and GM aren't the first companies to retool past plans into a good PR moment. Honestly, given how easily companies can turn Trump's ire into praise with a few "big league" numbers, more power to them. This time two weeks ago, Trump was openly attacking GM on Twitter, claiming (without context, according to the company) that it made Chevrolet Cruze vehicles sold in the U.S. in Mexico. By midday on Tuesday, Trump had already tweeted his thanks to the company. Moving on! Thank you to General Motors and Walmart for starting the big jobs push back into the U.S.! These are real jobs that are being preserved or created, and that is a good thing. But while such announcements have taken on new meaning in the wake of Tweet Storm Trump, GM and Wal-Mart have been making them since well before he came along and neither company is demonstrating a significant shift in strategy. Here is a sampling. In August 2014, GM said it would move production of the Cadillac SRX sport-utility vehicle from Mexico to a Tennessee facility. A contract signed in 2015 with the United Auto Workers union included a commitment by GM to invest $8.3 billion in U.S. factories in total and create or retain (there's that word again) more than 3,300 jobs. GM has also cut a number of jobs, often in response to shifting demand -- see here and here -- but the net effect on U.S. employment in the wake of the financial crisis has been positive. GM says it's invested more than $21 billion in its U.S. operations since 2009. The planned $1 billion in spending actually pales in comparison to the $2.9 billion of investments announced in 2016. Wal-Mart, like most retailers, has had to close stores to cope with the shift to online shopping, and with that has come job cuts. But the company has still managed to keep its overall U.S. employment flat to trending upward following the financial crisis. A Sam's Club opening in Ankeny, Iowa, in May 2015 brought 160 jobs to the area , while a location in El Paso that opened earlier that year added 170 positions. Neither of those sound particularly impressive on their own, but those jobs add up over time. Then, of course, there is Wal-Mart's decision to raise minimum wages for its employees. There are real issues undermining an American manufacturing revival and focusing on nice-sounding jobs announcements keeps us from addressing them. While Trump has spent plenty of time railing against companies that manufacture goods in Mexico, he's failed to give a solid answer as to how he will manage an ongoing effort to automate more factory work . Robots are coming for U.S. jobs. United Technologies Corp. CEO Greg Hayes acknowledged as much after "saving" 800 positions at the company's Carrier unit. The automation trend was implicit in the fact that Ford Motor Co.'s $700 million Michigan investment plan will create just 700 jobs . Meanwhile, Carrier is still moving some jobs to Mexico and GM hasn’t backed away from its plan to invest $5 billion in Mexico plants by 2018. Companies know how to play the job-creation and press-release games. Does Trump? This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.   To contact the author of this story: in at bsutherland7@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at bewilliams@bloomberg.net Singapore Slight Wishful Thinking  Snagging Aramco Won't Be Easy, Singapore   Deals  Uber free rides offered in China changing gears  Uber's Big Fat Indian Wedding Service   Tech  Google Play's Starting Spot in China's Market Lukewarm Welcome  Google Won't Play in China   Tech  Stock Surge Revisionist History  Gary Cohn Doesn't Need a Time Machine   Markets  Curves Showing Not So Fast  JPMorgan's China News Is Great...for China   Markets  Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer

Dealing with Donald Trump's Twitter rants is a new phenomenon for U.S. companies. For many of his favorite targets, creating jobs isn't.

General Motors Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on Tuesday became the latest corporations to talk up the part they're playing in the president-elect's plan to become "the greatest jobs producer that God ever created." GM largely just summed up U.S. spending plans that had been in the works for a while, but it did so with panache, touting a $1 billion headline number and pledging to create or retain (emphasis on retain) about 7,000 jobs. Only about 2,000 of those will be in factories. Wal-Mart, meanwhile, celebrated the planned addition of 10,000 retail jobs, even as it expands its store count at a slower pace.

Times They Are A'Changing Wal-Mart spiked on its jobs plan, but last year when it said it was closing 269 stores and putting 10,000 U.S. jobs at risk , the shares faltered in part because some investors didn't think the closures went far enough. Source: Bloomberg

Wal-Mart and GM aren't the first companies to retool past plans into a good PR moment. Honestly, given how easily companies can turn Trump's ire into praise with a few "big league" numbers, more power to them. This time two weeks ago, Trump was openly attacking GM on Twitter, claiming (without context, according to the company) that it made Chevrolet Cruze vehicles sold in the U.S. in Mexico. By midday on Tuesday, Trump had already tweeted his thanks to the company. Moving on!

Thank you to General Motors and Walmart for starting the big jobs push back into the U.S.! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 17, 2017

These are real jobs that are being preserved or created, and that is a good thing. But while such announcements have taken on new meaning in the wake of Tweet Storm Trump, GM and Wal-Mart have been making them since well before he came along and neither company is demonstrating a significant shift in strategy.

Here is a sampling. In August 2014, GM said it would move production of the Cadillac SRX sport-utility vehicle from Mexico to a Tennessee facility. A contract signed in 2015 with the United Auto Workers union included a commitment by GM to invest $8.3 billion in U.S. factories in total and create or retain (there's that word again) more than 3,300 jobs. GM has also cut a number of jobs, often in response to shifting demand -- see here and here -- but the net effect on U.S. employment in the wake of the financial crisis has been positive.

Digging Out of a Hole GM had to be bailed out by the U.S. government in 2009. Since then, it's been adding jobs. Source: Bloomberg, company filings

GM says it's invested more than $21 billion in its U.S. operations since 2009. The planned $1 billion in spending actually pales in comparison to the $2.9 billion of investments announced in 2016.

Wal-Mart, like most retailers, has had to close stores to cope with the shift to online shopping, and with that has come job cuts. But the company has still managed to keep its overall U.S. employment flat to trending upward following the financial crisis. A Sam's Club opening in Ankeny, Iowa, in May 2015 brought 160 jobs to the area, while a location in El Paso that opened earlier that year added 170 positions. Neither of those sound particularly impressive on their own, but those jobs add up over time. Then, of course, there is Wal-Mart's decision to raise minimum wages for its employees.

All Aboard Wal-Mart has kept employment in the U.S. generally flat over the past few years, a feat at a time when many retailers are shutting stores Source: Bloomberg, company filings

There are real issues undermining an American manufacturing revival and focusing on nice-sounding jobs announcements keeps us from addressing them. While Trump has spent plenty of time railing against companies that manufacture goods in Mexico, he's failed to give a solid answer as to how he will manage an ongoing effort to automate more factory work. Robots are coming for U.S. jobs. United Technologies Corp. CEO Greg Hayes acknowledged as much after "saving" 800 positions at the company's Carrier unit. The automation trend was implicit in the fact that Ford Motor Co.'s $700 million Michigan investment plan will create just 700 jobs. Meanwhile, Carrier is still moving some jobs to Mexico and GM hasn’t backed away from its plan to invest $5 billion in Mexico plants by 2018.

Companies know how to play the job-creation and press-release games. Does Trump?

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Brooke Sutherland in New York at bsutherland7@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Beth Williams at bewilliams@bloomberg.net