Chance the Rapper and Anderson .Paak Preview a New Track
Chance the Rapper and Anderson .Paak Preview a New Track
Have Chance the Rapper and Anderson .Paak joined forces once again? It definitely appears that way. On Tuesday, .Paak posted a Snapchat video in which he and Chance are seen having a drink while listening to an unreleased track. “It’s still West Side, West Side right on time, nigga,” .Paak says in the clip, before raising his glass and adding, “This is to a good year.” The snippet features Chano’s vocals over a funk-infused beat. Neither artists have provided any details about the track, but if it is in fact another joint effort, we’re sure it’s going to be nothing short of aces. Chance and .Paak, who are both nominated for Best New Artist at this year’s Grammys , previously collaborated on Chance’s track “Blessings (Reprise).” The two have also announced or hinted at several upcoming projects: .Paak will drop an album with his band The Free Nationals this year, and Chance is believed to have more collaborations with Childish Gambino and DJ Khaled on the way. It’s clear we can expect big things from the artists in the upcoming months. But will they deliver another collaborative track? We’re crossing our fingers.

Have Chance the Rapper and Anderson .Paak joined forces once again? It definitely appears that way.

On Tuesday, .Paak posted a Snapchat video in which he and Chance are seen having a drink while listening to an unreleased track.

“It’s still West Side, West Side right on time, nigga,” .Paak says in the clip, before raising his glass and adding, “This is to a good year.”

The snippet features Chano’s vocals over a funk-infused beat. Neither artists have provided any details about the track, but if it is in fact another joint effort, we’re sure it’s going to be nothing short of aces. Chance and .Paak, who are both nominated for Best New Artist at this year’s Grammys, previously collaborated on Chance’s Coloring Book track “Blessings (Reprise).” The two have also announced or hinted at several upcoming projects: .Paak will drop an album with his band The Free Nationals this year, and Chance is believed to have more collaborations with Childish Gambino and DJ Khaled on the way.

It’s clear we can expect big things from the artists in the upcoming months. But will they deliver another collaborative track? We’re crossing our fingers.