11 Heartwarming And Hilarious Stories About LGBT Parents Coming Out To Their Kids
11 Heartwarming And Hilarious Stories About LGBT Parents Coming Out To Their Kids
You hear a lot of stories about kids coming out to their parents — but what’s it like for LGBT parents to come out to their children? We asked LGBT parents (and kids of LGBT parents) in the BuzzFeed Community to share their personal coming out stories. Here are a few of our favorites: This enlightening conversation: “I came out to my mom via a Skype message in college and when we talked about it later she came out to me! A better outcome than either of us had ever thought would happen.” — psychisweird And this surprising assumption: “When my partner and I were in the beginning stages of adopting our daughter at age 5, we were on an outing in the car on the first or second weekend we were spending with her. We explained that we were in a relationship just like other couples she knows. ‘Oh,’ she said, paused, and then, ‘Awkward.’” — roberta1103high This above-and-beyond moment: “My kids were amazingly supportive, even though it meant that the family they had known their whole lives would be changing. My 15-year-old son has even been painting his nails in solidarity. And his twin sister goes to GSA meetings at school.” —Matt Nightingale, via Twitter This little show of appreciation: “My kids took the news that I was trans very well, better than I expected and my youngest immediately started calling me daddy — sweetest thing ever. He also made a card at school — ” —Kai Gagnon, Facebook The coming-out moment that never actually happened: “My mom never actually came out. She just let my sister and I grow up with her same-sex relationships as normalcy.” —Kaylin Evans, Facebook And this hilarious misunderstanding: “My dad never actually ever came out to me. It was 1990 and I was 11 years old. All I knew was that my dad ‘did’ something and that was why my mom and dad got a divorce. It took me three years to realize his roommate was his boyfriend. Up until that point, I worried about what he ‘did.’ It would have been better if he came out to me early on. Either way, gay or member of the mafia, I loved my dad no matter what.” —Elizabeth Collins This beautiful lesson: “My dad came out to my sister and me when I was 12. The hardest part about my dad coming out to the family was that he still didn’t come out publicly. In a conservative state like Idaho, he would have lost his job. The good thing was that my parents remained friends even though their marriage ended. We learned to lean on each other in the face of adversity and become a stronger family. ” —Natalie Perry And this family meeting: “We had a family meeting when I was 12 and I already knew that my mum was gay. My parents explained what was going on. I was so scared for her. She’s good now though, and having two moms is the best!” — carolinec43b04396f This totally ~ whatever ~ reaction: “While my 11-year-old daughter was making hot chocolate, I told her that my ‘friend’ was actually my girlfriend. She said, ‘Okay. Do you want any hot chocolate?’ Her lack of a reaction threw me off, so I tried to clarify by saying, ‘That means I’ll hug her and kiss her like I would with a man.’  “We’ve been together for a year now, and they’re as close as I’d hoped they’d be.” — JackieMajors This one, for all the furry children out there: “I looked my little girl right in the face and said, ‘I’m gay AF.’ “Naturally, Lillian, being a Border collie-heeler didn’t care and gave me some kisses.” —Hamilton Reigh Skynard, Facebook And this total tear-jerker: “Growing up in the suburbs of Houston, I learned to care less about what people thought of myself and my two moms and more about what I could do to help other families who looked like mine. I thought marriage equality would come someday for my moms, but I never knew what that would look like.  —AJ Costa Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter !   Koreans Got Photoshopped With Double Eyelids And It...    The Ballerina Who Accused Her Instructor Of Sexual...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

9. This totally ~ whatever ~ reaction:

“While my 11-year-old daughter was making hot chocolate, I told her that my ‘friend’ was actually my girlfriend. She said, ‘Okay. Do you want any hot chocolate?’ Her lack of a reaction threw me off, so I tried to clarify by saying, ‘That means I’ll hug her and kiss her like I would with a man.’ She looked at me like ‘no shit’ and said, ‘Do you want hot chocolate or not?’

“We’ve been together for a year now, and they’re as close as I’d hoped they’d be.”

—JackieMajors