Obamas begin moving possessions into luxury new home ahead of White House exit
Obamas begin moving possessions into luxury new home ahead of White House exit 
fter eight years in the White House, the Obamas have begun the process of moving their treasured belongings into their luxury new home. Barack and Michelle Obama have chosen to move into the salubrious Washington DC neighbourhood of Kalorama, with furniture removal vans spotted outside their plush new home this week. vanka Trump and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos will be among their famous neighbours when they finally say goodbye to the White House. ine art boxes were among the couples’ belongings loaded off the truck, which also had boxes labelled “cleaning supplies”, “school supplies” and “dog supplies”, CNN reports . Three sets of golf clubs were also brought into the property, hardly a surprise for a president who played a total of 306 rounds of golf during his time in office . he Obamas are leasing the 8,200sq ft property, which has nine bedrooms and is worth $4.3 million (£3.4 million), according to reports. Mr Obama will hold his final press conference as president today before leaving the office for the final time on Friday. e used his farewell speech last week to issue a warning about the state of American democracy. "Democracy does not require uniformity," he said. "Our founders quarreled and compromised, and expected us to do the same. But they knew that democracy does require a basic sense of solidarity – the idea that for all our outward differences, we are all in this together; that we rise or fall as one." e added: "It falls to each of us to be those anxious, jealous guardians of our democracy. Because for all our outward differences, we all share the same proud title: Citizen. "Ultimately, that’s what our democracy demands. It needs you." Donald Trump will be sworn in as the new US president on Jan 20, with his inauguration set to be disrupted by widespread protests . Meanwhile, the incredible Obama-Biden "bromance" memes are back .

After eight years in the White House, the Obamas have begun the process of moving their treasured belongings into their luxury new home.

Barack and Michelle Obama have chosen to move into the salubrious Washington DC neighbourhood of Kalorama, with furniture removal vans spotted outside their plush new home this week.