Tennis Star Stanislas Wawrinka Smashes Opponent's Balls, Says Sorry Afterwards!
Tennis Star Stanislas Wawrinka Smashes Opponent's Balls, Says Sorry Afterwards!
Tennis Star Stanislas Wawrinka Smashes Opponent's Balls, Says Sorry Afterwards! One of the favourites to win the Australian Open Stanislas Wawrinka was left embarrassed after he smashed the ball at his opponent's groin during a first round match. The man hurting was Slovakian Martin Klizan who got hit where it hurts most. The three-time Grand Slam champion Wawrinka went on to win the tense five-setter 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4 but it wasn't without some drama. In the final set Wawrinka fired a volley back at Klizan after he had conceded the point. #Wawrinka  #Klizan  #AusOpen  pic.twitter.com/CrahzeeEYx Once again. New balls please... #Klizan vs #Wawrinka in #AusOpen 1R. #ouch  https://t.co/AYzeOB8vC9 The Swiss fourth seed quickly jumped over the net to say sorry to Klizan who had sunk to his haunches in agony. "That was, for sure, a tough shot for him. The thing is there are some players they fake you, and you stop playing and then they just put up the racquet. So for me I already miss some easy ones. For me the most important thing was to run straight over to him. I just wanted to make sure he was okay. I realised he was okay. I'm sorry I touch him in the wrong place. But I think it was okay at the end," Wawrinka said. Hope Klizan recovered in time and his vitals are in place!

One of the favourites to win the Australian Open Stanislas Wawrinka was left embarrassed after he smashed the ball at his opponent's groin during a first round match. The man hurting was Slovakian Martin Klizan who got hit where it hurts most.

AP

The three-time Grand Slam champion Wawrinka went on to win the tense five-setter 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4 but it wasn't without some drama. In the final set Wawrinka fired a volley back at Klizan after he had conceded the point.

The Swiss fourth seed quickly jumped over the net to say sorry to Klizan who had sunk to his haunches in agony.

AP

"That was, for sure, a tough shot for him. The thing is there are some players they fake you, and you stop playing and then they just put up the racquet. So for me I already miss some easy ones. For me the most important thing was to run straight over to him. I just wanted to make sure he was okay. I realised he was okay. I'm sorry I touch him in the wrong place. But I think it was okay at the end," Wawrinka said.

AFP

Hope Klizan recovered in time and his vitals are in place!