Like Melania Trump, You Too Can Have a Glam Room, for $50,000
Like Melania Trump, You Too Can Have a Glam Room, for $50,000
Melania Trump made headlines when her makeup artist announced that the incoming first lady would, in fact, have her own glam room . Guess what? She’s not alone. Not by a long mascara wand. Mariah Carey has one. As does Kendall Kenner. As does Kim Kardashian . As does Beyoncé . “They are becoming more and more popular,” says makeup artist Jamie Greenberg, who works with Kaley Cuoco and Tracee Ellis Ross. “Women love a place to get ready. Everything is in place. Comfortable seating and good lighting are guaranteed every time. It’s like a man cave!” A starter glam room will run you about $50,000, says Martyn Lawrence Bullard, who created the ones in the Jenner and Kardashian homes. “So many people want a glam room with a hair-washing sink and the full-on facility. They don’t want to go to salons anymore. Three of my new clients are getting glam rooms. It’s the thing to have,” says Bullard. So now you may be asking: What exactly goes into a proper atelier where you get your hair and makeup and nails done? First and foremost, it’s all about comfort and ease. “A chair and a light. Lighting is life or death. I wish every woman had lighting, and her life would change,” says Sir John, a brand ambassador and celebrity makeup artist for L’Oréal Paris, as well as Beyoncé’s go-to beauty guru. “It’s a sanctuary. Hopefully there’s a candle so it smells good. I’ll bring in my favorite candle, Diptyque Roses . Beyoncé is obsessed with it. I wear the fragrance. We’re a big family. All of us have great rapport. Hair is doing hair. I’m doing makeup. All of us are only here because of the relationship we have with Beyoncé.” Glam rooms are nothing new. We’re just suddenly hearing so much more about them. One major advocate is Kylie Jenner, whose space is stocked with makeup and her collection of wigs.

Melania Trump made headlines when her makeup artist announced that the incoming first lady would, in fact, have her own glam room.

Guess what?

She’s not alone. Not by a long mascara wand.

Mariah Carey has one. As does Kendall Kenner. As does Kim Kardashian. As does Beyoncé.

“They are becoming more and more popular,” says makeup artist Jamie Greenberg, who works with Kaley Cuoco and Tracee Ellis Ross. “Women love a place to get ready. Everything is in place. Comfortable seating and good lighting are guaranteed every time. It’s like a man cave!”

A starter glam room will run you about $50,000, says Martyn Lawrence Bullard, who created the ones in the Jenner and Kardashian homes.

“So many people want a glam room with a hair-washing sink and the full-on facility. They don’t want to go to salons anymore. Three of my new clients are getting glam rooms. It’s the thing to have,” says Bullard.

Photo: Getty Images More

So now you may be asking: What exactly goes into a proper atelier where you get your hair and makeup and nails done? First and foremost, it’s all about comfort and ease.

“A chair and a light. Lighting is life or death. I wish every woman had lighting, and her life would change,” says Sir John, a brand ambassador and celebrity makeup artist for L’Oréal Paris, as well as Beyoncé’s go-to beauty guru. “It’s a sanctuary. Hopefully there’s a candle so it smells good. I’ll bring in my favorite candle, Diptyque Roses. Beyoncé is obsessed with it. I wear the fragrance. We’re a big family. All of us have great rapport. Hair is doing hair. I’m doing makeup. All of us are only here because of the relationship we have with Beyoncé.”

Photo: Getty Images More

Glam rooms are nothing new. We’re just suddenly hearing so much more about them. One major advocate is Kylie Jenner, whose space is stocked with makeup and her collection of wigs.

“If anything, this is us having a resurgence of when women had vanities. This is a modern take on old Hollywood. They had that attention to detail,” says Sir John. “Guys have had bat caves. Women have a boudoir. It’s a French thing as well. Parisian women have never let the essence of getting ready go.”

Read more:

Aly Raisman on Her Sizzling Sports Illustrated Shoot: It Was ‘Empowering’

‘I Don’t Work Out to Fit Into a Dress, the Dress Has to Fit Me’ and Other Wise Words From Lea Michele