Infertile woman gives birth after 'three-parent baby' IVF
Infertile woman, 34, undergoing 'three-parent' IVF treatment


Infertile couples could still have children through using the 'three-parent' IVF technique, scientists claim.

Scientists used the controversial method to help a 34-year-old woman who was unable to conceive, it has been announced.

The 34-year-old woman's eggs were fertilised using her partner's sperm, but then their combined genes were transferred into a donor egg.

This allowed for the child to have the same genetic identity as her parents, but has a small amount of different DNA from the second woman.

She gave birth to her daughter on January 5 after trying for more than a decade to start her family, The Times reports.

Scroll down for video

Scientists used the controversial 'three-parent baby' method to help a 34-year-old Ukrainian woman who was unable to conceive (stock)

Previously, she had undergone four cycles of IVF, but all had been unsuccessful in helping her to start a family.

Initial tests have revealed that the baby is 'completely healthy', according to Dr Valery Zukin, who led the work at the Kiev clinic.

He said the treatment could be particularly helpful for women whose embryos stop growing.

Dr Zukin, who has another 29-year-old woman expecting to give birth in March, told the newspaper: 'It's like the opening of a new era.

'Before, we could only increase the selection of embryos. But for us this moment opens up the possibility of augmenting embryos.'

This was the first time pronuclear transfer had been used to give birth to a child, Dr Zukin said.

Doctors fertilised both the woman's and a donor's egg using her partner's sperm.

They waited for the nucleus' in both eggs to mature, before replacing the one in the donor egg with that from the mother's - allowing for the parents genes to be carried.

But a very small, unavoidable amount of secondary DNA from the donor was also used in the process.

However, a slightly different method was used to give birth to the world's first three-parent baby by US scientists in Mexico last year.

She gave birth on January 5 after trying for more than a decade to start her family (stock)

The Jordanian-born mother had already lost two children to Leigh's syndrome - a severe neurological disorder that attacks the nervous system.

It gradually inhibits a child's mental and physical abilities from the moment they are born. Sufferers typically die by the age of three due to lung failure.

In that instance, doctors incorporated a small amount of donor DNA into his cells to avoid passing on the damaged mitochondria.

HOW THE BABY WAS BORN 1. Doctors fertilised the 34-year-old woman's egg using her partner's sperm 2. They then also fertilised the donor egg with her partner's sperm 3. Both nucleus' of each egg were then allowed to mature 4. Doctors then replaced the nucleus in the donor's egg with that of the infertile woman's

Unpublished test results of the boy in December indicated he is healthy and has no sign of the genetic disease carried by his parents.

The levels of mutant mitochondria were low, around 3 or 4 per cent, as experts claimed the defective cells will remain at acceptable levels.

The clinic where the boy was conceived, New York City's New Hope Fertility Center, is working with more couples hoping to avoid similar conditions.

However, previous reports have suggested this 'three-parent' approach may have already been used by researchers in China, with a child born using the technique.

The procedure is conducted by doctors taking eggs from a mother with damaged mitochondria, while eggs are donated from a woman who has healthy versions.

The nucleus, which contains the majority of her genetic material, is then removed and saved from the mother's egg.

However, the donor's nucleus is removed and discarded to prevent any genes being passed on.

Doctors then place the mother's nucleus into the donor's eggs with the healthy mitochondria. They then fertilise it using the father's sperm.

But critics say the technique is not fool-proof and small numbers of faulty mitochondria may still be 'carried over' into the child, and even replicate in the developing embryo.

They also argue that unforeseen problems might occur once the procedure is used to create human babies.

While concerns have also been raised about the method, as mitochondria contain a small amount of DNA, meaning the child inherits genes from the mother, father and donor.

Speaking of the new birth using the pronuclear transfer method, Professor Adam Balen, chairman of the British Fertility Society, said it was 'something that needs to be extremely carefully thought through and treated with caution'.