We Haven't A Moment To Lose, Urges Shakira After Getting Humanitarian Award At World Economic Forum
Popstar Shakira Honoured With Humanitarian Award At World Economic Forum
We Haven't A Moment To Lose, Urges Shakira After Getting Humanitarian Award At World Economic Forum From popstar to global sweetheart to a humanitarian with a burning cause - there's many a name Shakira's earned over the span of her career over the past years. Her most recent achievement? Receiving the Crystal Award during the Crystal Award ceremony, at the World Economic Forum. "We should be devastated that, in 2017, there are still 250 million kids under five who are still at risk, who will likely be stunted physically and intellectually," Shakira said on 16 January, 2017. She urged governments, businesses and leaders to get behind the cause for children. "We need to apply the brains and strategies of business and the assets and human resources and talents of your companies to do social good and to solve social problems," she said. @shakira to Davos: Save our children now https://t.co/OdVCCrRvm8  #wef17  pic.twitter.com/iOK69k27G0 "Today's babies will drive tomorrow's business. Their capacity to contribute will shape tomorrow's societies, will solve tomorrow's problems." The others who were awarded humanitarian awards at WEF included violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter and Hollywood actor Forest Whitaker. A nonprofit foundation, the World Economic Forum is committed to addressing and resolving world issues by getting together leaders from across different fields. Check out her moving speech below:

From popstar to global sweetheart to a humanitarian with a burning cause - there's many a name Shakira's earned over the span of her career over the past years.

Her most recent achievement? Receiving the Crystal Award during the Crystal Award ceremony, at the World Economic Forum.

Screengrab

"We should be devastated that, in 2017, there are still 250 million kids under five who are still at risk, who will likely be stunted physically and intellectually," Shakira said on 16 January, 2017.

She urged governments, businesses and leaders to get behind the cause for children. "We need to apply the brains and strategies of business and the assets and human resources and talents of your companies to do social good and to solve social problems," she said.

"Today's babies will drive tomorrow's business. Their capacity to contribute will shape tomorrow's societies, will solve tomorrow's problems."

The others who were awarded humanitarian awards at WEF included violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter and Hollywood actor Forest Whitaker.

A nonprofit foundation, the World Economic Forum is committed to addressing and resolving world issues by getting together leaders from across different fields.

Check out her moving speech below:

Lead image: screengrab