Selena Gomez Sings and Dances in New Studio Clips: Watch
Selena Gomez Sings and Dances in New Studio Clips: Watch 
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Selena Gomez Sings and Dances in New Studio Clips: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  OK, so is the studio. With her collaborators. And they’re singing and dancing and looking positively adorable. But is it just the start of something beautiful, another album perhaps? Or just musicians hanging out in familiar turf with a good reason to celebrate. Selena spent time in the studio with songwriters Justin Tranter and Julia Michaels on the weekend, where they sang and smiled and shared it all on Intagram.  “When the people who changed your life create magic… I’m so happy for you guys – one of my favorite songs they have ever written,” Gomez wrote in the caption of her post, which she shared Sunday (Jan. 15). When the people who changed your life create magic @imjmichaels @tranterjustin I'm so happy for you guys -one of my favorite songs they have ever written A video posted by Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) on Republic Group president Charlie Walk shared his own post with the hashtag #issues, referencing Julia Michaels’ debut single of that name (written by Michaels and Tranter), which dropped last week and is clearly the kick-starter for this party. The unofficial @imjmichaels #issues sing along session with @tranterjustin & @selenagomez. A video posted by Charlie Walk (@charliewalk) on  And Tranter had another. He captioned the clip: "We got #issues@imjmichaels @selenagomez (I love these two so much I could scream)." We got #issues @imjmichaels @selenagomez (I love these two so much I could scream) A video posted by justin tranter (@tranterjustin) on Gomez’ last album release, 2015’s , reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200. Its predecessor, , hit the top in 2013. But without further details and cold, hard facts, Selena’s fans will have to sit tight for news on a new release. The wait continues...

Selena Gomez Sings and Dances in New Studio Clips: Watch

OK, so Selena Gomez is the studio. With her collaborators. And they’re singing and dancing and looking positively adorable. But is it just the start of something beautiful, another album perhaps? Or just musicians hanging out in familiar turf with a good reason to celebrate.

Selena spent time in the studio with songwriters Justin Tranter and Julia Michaels on the weekend, where they sang and smiled and shared it all on Intagram.

“When the people who changed your life create magic… I’m so happy for you guys – one of my favorite songs they have ever written,” Gomez wrote in the caption of her post, which she shared Sunday (Jan. 15).

When the people who changed your life create magic @imjmichaels @tranterjustin I'm so happy for you guys -one of my favorite songs they have ever written A video posted by Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) on Jan 15, 2017 at 7:47pm PST

Republic Group president Charlie Walk shared his own post with the hashtag #issues, referencing Julia Michaels’ debut single of that name (written by Michaels and Tranter), which dropped last week and is clearly the kick-starter for this party.

The unofficial @imjmichaels #issues sing along session with @tranterjustin & @selenagomez. A video posted by Charlie Walk (@charliewalk) on Jan 16, 2017 at 6:14am PST

And Tranter had another. He captioned the clip: "We got #issues@imjmichaels @selenagomez (I love these two so much I could scream)."

We got #issues @imjmichaels @selenagomez (I love these two so much I could scream) A video posted by justin tranter (@tranterjustin) on Jan 15, 2017 at 8:10pm PST

Gomez’ last album release, 2015’s Revival, reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200. Its predecessor, Stars Dance, hit the top in 2013. But without further details and cold, hard facts, Selena’s fans will have to sit tight for news on a new release. The wait continues...