A Scary Number of People Think the ACA and Obamacare Are Totally Different Things
A Scary Number of People Think the ACA and Obamacare Are Totally Different Things
Before you read another word or watch another dumb video, please consume the following fact with vigor: The AFFORDABLE CARE ACT and so-called "OBAMACARE" are Sadly, years of Republican fuckery have inspired more people than we'd thought to believe the ACA and "Obamacare" are two separate things. Again: They are not. Jimmy Kimmel , who's already done such a thing on at least one other occasion , decided to hit the streets of Los Angeles Tuesday to ask if people preferred either the ACA or "Obamacare," which are (one more time for those in the back!) EXACTLY THE SAME THING. "As you know, Republicans in Congress have been hard at work looking to repeal and replace Obamacare right now," Kimmel told his audience Tuesday. "People have very strong opinions about the President's healthcare plan. And back in 2013, we conducted an experiment here on the show. We went out on the street and we asked people, which was better: Obamacare or the Affordable Care Act? As anyone who knows anything about this subject knows, Obamacare is just a nickname for the Affordable Care Act. They're the same thing." Revisiting the experiment, Kimmel explained, was his way of testing if the nation has learned anything over the past few years. Spoiler: They kinda haven't? Thankfully, this latest experiment closes out with a proudly high AF dude who offers some much-needed wisdom to Kimmel's audience: "I mean, Obama's pretty tight so I guess I'll probably go with Obama."

Before you read another word or watch another dumb video, please consume the following fact with vigor: The AFFORDABLE CARE ACT and so-called "OBAMACARE" are exactly the same thing.

Sadly, years of Republican fuckery have inspired more people than we'd thought to believe the ACA and "Obamacare" are two separate things. Again: They are not. Jimmy Kimmel, who's already done such a thing on at least one other occasion, decided to hit the streets of Los Angeles Tuesday to ask if people preferred either the ACA or "Obamacare," which are (one more time for those in the back!) EXACTLY THE SAME THING.

"As you know, Republicans in Congress have been hard at work looking to repeal and replace Obamacare right now," Kimmel told his audience Tuesday. "People have very strong opinions about the President's healthcare plan. And back in 2013, we conducted an experiment here on the show. We went out on the street and we asked people, which was better: Obamacare or the Affordable Care Act? As anyone who knows anything about this subject knows, Obamacare is just a nickname for the Affordable Care Act. They're the same thing." Revisiting the experiment, Kimmel explained, was his way of testing if the nation has learned anything over the past few years.

Spoiler: They kinda haven't?

Thankfully, this latest experiment closes out with a proudly high AF dude who offers some much-needed wisdom to Kimmel's audience: