This Instagram Account Is Using Nipples To Make A Point About Gender Equality
This Instagram Account Is Using Nipples To Make A Point About Gender Equality
Everyone knows that Instagram has come under fire because of their rules about female nudity. They suspended Rihanna’s account after she posted a topless photo of herself on the cover of magazine. They’ve also removed pictures of Chelsea Handler , Scout Willis, and Miley Cyrus. According to their Community Guidelines , you can only show post-mastectomy scarring, nipples in photos of paintings and sculptures, or breastfeeding nipples. Which is why @genderless_nipples , an Instagram account showing nipples up close and personal, is sort of genius. Evelyne Wyss, Morgan-Lee Wagner, and Marco Russo created the account, which now has over 38,000 followers. The trio started the account to make a point about the platform’s flawed rules when it comes to censorship. “We are not against following the rules, but we think these should be applied to all genders equally,” Wyss told BuzzFeed. “By uploading a close-up picture, how could Instagram even tell the difference? We want to show them their guidelines won’t work in today’s society anymore.” And it appears people want to #freethenipple. “We’ve never counted, but we get around 90 submissions daily, which is amazing,” said Wyss. “We wanted to spark a conversation and to challenge people’s perception of what is sexual and what actually might not be at all.” So far, Wyss says they’ve gotten mostly positive responses. “We’ve gotten a lot of messages from people who want to tell us how important they feel this project is. The comments are very interesting, people are debating, which is exactly what we wanted,” she told BuzzFeed. As for Instagram, it appears they can’t tell the difference between male and female nipples. A male nipple was recently removed from the account.  View on Instagram “We just had one of our male nipples removed by them, but they can’t even tell the difference between male and female nipples, so why even bother banning female nipples if they look so similar?” asked Wyss. “They basically just proved our point.”   This Wire Nail Trend Is Going To Blow Your Mind    24 Incredibly Gorgeous Statement Necklaces You Can...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.