25 Children Have Been Selected From Across India For The Revered National Bravery Awards
25 Children Have Been Selected From Across India For The Revered National Bravery Awards
25 Children Have Been Selected From Across India For The Revered National Bravery Awards Twenty-five children from across the country have been selected for the revered Indian Council for Child Welfare’s (ICCW) National Bravery Awards to be presented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 23. Of these 25, four awards are being awarded posthumously. The greatest of all, the Bharat Award, will be given to 8-year-old Tarh Peju of Arunachal Pradesh, who sacrificed her life in an attempt to save two of her friends from drowning. 25 children selected for National #Bravery Awards 2016. These include 13 girls. 4 of awards given posthumously. #AIRPics : Suparna Saikia pic.twitter.com/fGx6fuu22l Among others, Roluahpuii and Lalhriatpuii from Mizoram, and Tushar Verma from Chattisgarh have been given Bapu Gaidhani Award posthumously. Two girls, Shivani Gond, 17, and Tejasweeta Pradhan, 18 from West Bengal are being awarded for helping the police bust a cross-border human trafficking racket, leading to the arrest of suspects in the cases of missing girls from both India and Nepal. Two girls win National Bravery Awards for tricking traffickers and busting cross-border racket https://t.co/wmk4VGMJ3w by @AnuraNagaraj Two Schoolgirls Win National Bravery Awards For Tricking Traffickers, Busting Cross-border... https://t.co/0YSVGBIl7g  pic.twitter.com/0aZaPOzZhV They will be awarded the same for "showing exemplary courage". “These awards were initiated to give due recognition to to the children who distinguish themselves by performing outstanding deeds of bravery and to inspire other children to emulate their example,” ICCW President Gita Siddhartha told IANS. 25 children including 13 girls selected for National Bravery Awards https://t.co/gCor2Gn4vr  pic.twitter.com/yTpic2KaxN The Sanjay Chopra Award has been conferred on 15-year-old Sumit Mamgain of Uttarakhand who showed extreme bravery in fighting off a leopard to save his cousin.

Twenty-five children from across the country have been selected for the revered Indian Council for Child Welfare’s (ICCW) National Bravery Awards to be presented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 23.

Of these 25, four awards are being awarded posthumously.

The greatest of all, the Bharat Award, will be given to 8-year-old Tarh Peju of Arunachal Pradesh, who sacrificed her life in an attempt to save two of her friends from drowning.

25 children selected for National #Bravery Awards 2016. These include 13 girls. 4 of awards given posthumously. #AIRPics: Suparna Saikia pic.twitter.com/fGx6fuu22l — All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) January 17, 2017

Among others, Roluahpuii and Lalhriatpuii from Mizoram, and Tushar Verma from Chattisgarh have been given Bapu Gaidhani Award posthumously.

Two girls, Shivani Gond, 17, and Tejasweeta Pradhan, 18 from West Bengal are being awarded for helping the police bust a cross-border human trafficking racket, leading to the arrest of suspects in the cases of missing girls from both India and Nepal.

Two girls win National Bravery Awards for tricking traffickers and busting cross-border racket https://t.co/wmk4VGMJ3w by @AnuraNagaraj — Reuters India (@ReutersIndia) January 16, 2017

Two Schoolgirls Win National Bravery Awards For Tricking Traffickers, Busting Cross-border... https://t.co/0YSVGBIl7g pic.twitter.com/0aZaPOzZhV — News India Times (@newsindia5) January 17, 2017

They will be awarded the same for "showing exemplary courage".

“These awards were initiated to give due recognition to to the children who distinguish themselves by performing outstanding deeds of bravery and to inspire other children to emulate their example,” ICCW President Gita Siddhartha told IANS.

25 children including 13 girls selected for National Bravery Awards https://t.co/gCor2Gn4vr pic.twitter.com/yTpic2KaxN — UCC India (@UCC_India) January 17, 2017

The Sanjay Chopra Award has been conferred on 15-year-old Sumit Mamgain of Uttarakhand who showed extreme bravery in fighting off a leopard to save his cousin.

Dignitaries from various industries, NGOs, and offices participated in the selection process.