Babies remember their birth language
Babies remember their birth language


Babies are remarkable at taking in knowledge about the language they hear.

Even in the first few months of their lives, children begin to learn about how to pronounce words – and it seems this is a skill they never forget.

A new study has shown even if a baby moves country at a young age and never learns its birth language; it will always retain some hidden knowledge of the words it heard in its early life.

Babies are remarkable at taking in knowledge about the language they hear. Even in the first few months of their lives, children begin to learn about how to pronounce words – and it seems this is a skill they never forget (stock image)

Dr Jiyoun Choi and colleauges at Hanyang University in Seoul tested Dutch-speaking adults adopted from South Korea.

The researcher gave the adults a series of Korean consonants to pronounce, which are unlike those spoken in Dutch.

They compared the adopted people’s ability to pronounce the consonants with a group of people who had never been exposed to the Korean language as children.

Both groups performed to the same level before given training, but after a short training session, the international adoptees exceeded expectations compared to the others.

The study, published today in the Royal Society Open Science, is the first to show people who have been adopted early in their life and never learnt their birth language always retain some of that knowledge.

The study shows the early experience of adopted children in their birth language gives them an advantage later in life when speaking their mother tongue, even if they think it is forgotten (stock image)

‘Children adopted early in life into another linguistic community typically forget their birth language but retain, unaware, relevant linguistic knowledge that may facilitate (re)learning of birth-language patterns, the authors wrote in the study.

'This finding indicates that useful language knowledge is laid down in [the] very early months of life, which can be retained without further input of the language and revealed via re-learning,' Dr Choi told BBC News.

Of the adoptee group, half had been adopted at 17 months or older, when talking would have begun, while half had been under six months.

WHY BABY TALK IS GOOD FOR YOUR CHILD’S BRAIN Baby-talk and nursery rhymes help babies to learn by getting their brainwaves in tune with their mothers, a study at the end of last year found. While talking in a soothing, sing-song voice has long been known to help babies learn, scientists were not sure what effect this has on the child’s brain. Now brain scans of mother and baby show that their brain waves start to closely match each other as mum sings a nursery rhyme. Dr Victoria Leong, a researcher at Cambridge University said speaking in a soothing sing-song voice – dubbed ‘motherese’ – helps the baby to enter a state where it is more receptive to learning. Dr Leong is able to say that the brain waves are matching by ‘hyperscanning’ - carrying out brain scans of mother and baby at the same time.

There was no difference in their ability, suggesting experience in speaking the language made no difference.

This suggests the 'adoptees' retained knowledge of Korean transferred from perception to production and appears to be abstract in nature rather than dependent on the amount of experience,’ the authors wrote.

The ‘language learning process occurs very early in life, and useful language knowledge is laid down in the very early months of life as our study suggests,' Dr Choi said.

'Try to talk to your babies as much as possible because they are absorbing and digesting what you are saying.'