Ken Wyatt's supporters say he could be next Indigenous affairs minister



Ken Wyatt's supporters say he could be next Indigenous affairs minister

Posted

West Australian Indigenous MP Ken Wyatt's supporters have welcomed his new ministry but say he would be well qualified to become the Federal Indigenous affairs minister.

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull yesterday announced Mr Wyatt would be the Indigenous Health Minister and Minister for Aged Care.

Northern Territory Senator Nigel Scullion has retained the Indigenous Affairs portfolio, despite being roundly criticised last year for his response to abuse in Darwin's Don Dale detention centre.

But Mr Wyatt's backers believe it is a role he should be given in the future.

Fred Chaney, a fellow West Australian — who was Malcolm Fraser's Aboriginal Affairs Minister — is one of them.

"It would certainly be my hope that at some time he is Indigenous affairs minister, I think he's uniquely equipped to do that job, it would be a genuine first to have an Aboriginal person in that position."

Before entering politics Mr Wyatt held a number of senior public service roles in Indigenous affairs in Western Australia and New South Wales.

"I think if you look at Ken's extensive experience as a public servant as well as a politician, as a minister, you can see that he's very well qualified for that job," Mr Chaney said.

Calls for Senator Scullion to resign

Former Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Justice Commissioner Tom Calma also believes Mr Wyatt's well placed to become Indigenous affairs minister and has previously suggested Senator Scullion consider resigning.

"My criticism is of any minister who is not listening to their constituents and not looking at the research, it happened that we were talking about Minister Scullion at the time (in August 2016) but that goes for any minister."

"I think this is where Ken is so much different, in that he is engaging and he does engage with all the population and I think if Ken in the future had aspirations to be the Indigenous affairs minister I think he'd be quite capable of doing that."

As the head of the Kimberley Aboriginal Medical Service based in Broome in northern Western Australia, Vicki O'Donnell has worked closely with Ken Wyatt on the ground.

She too believes his new role as Indigenous Health minister would stand him in good stead for a bigger job.

"He certainly weighs things up, he doesn't make judgements and it's someone you can negotiate with," Ms O'Donnell said.

Nigel Scullion said through his spokesman he's committed to serving the full parliamentary term as Indigenous Affairs Minister.

Topics: indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, government-and-politics, indigenous-policy, federal-government, parliament, wa, australia