John Cummings obituary

John Cummings, who has died aged 73, was one of an increasingly rare breed of Labour MPs schooled in the trade union movement, in industrial militancy and in local government, and whose roots propelled them, not always enthusiastically, into a later life in parliament. Unimpressed by political careerists, disdainful of sections of the London metropolitan left and deeply uncomfortable with New Labour, John was “real” Labour, even if he shied away from apparently easy epithets. This extended to his choice of newspapers: he religiously took the Daily Telegraph, claiming that he needed to read it “to find out what the enemy are up to”. Following in the footsteps of Sidney Webb , Ramsay MacDonald , Manny Shinwell and Jack Dormand , John represented the totemic Durham mining constituency of Easington from 1987 until 2010. When he was elected to parliament at the same time as a fellow former miner, Ronnie Campbell, the pair were memorably described by the journalist Andrew Roth as “rough diamonds, set to shine”. But John had come to prominence well before going to Westminster. The journalist John Pilger recognised and admired him in his 1986 book Heroes, having interviewed him underground at Murton Colliery in between the convulsive strikes of the early 1970s that succeeded in toppling Edward Heath ’s Conservative government. A personally inscribed pottery miner’s lamp given by Pilger to John sat on his hearth in his home village of Murton. Before being elected to parliament, he had been both chairman and leader of Easington district council at different times between 1973 and 1987. By the early 1980s, and with John as one of the leading lights in the Seam (Save Easington Area Mines) campaign, the Thatcher government finally moved against the National Union of Mineworkers with its controversial pit closure programme. The Durham coalfield came out solidly for the strike in 1984, but as the year dragged on and conditions became ever more desperate for the miners and their families, a trickle of men began to return to work. Some of the more brutal confrontations of that bitter year were played out as police effectively occupied villages such as Easington Colliery and pursued fleeing pickets. At this time, John was often accompanied by his “picket pup”, Grit, a Jack Russell terrier. He would later claim that he had trained the dog to “nip at policemen’s ankles”. Grit’s exertions and loyalty to the cause were later to earn him an obituary in Tribune magazine. John’s lifelong friend John Winter, with whom he trained to be a colliery electrician in the late 1950s, recalled watching an early televised parliamentary committee dealing with the state of the beaches in the north-east (the National Coal Board used to tip waste into the sea), in which John spoke. “He declared: ‘The poor bairns are plodging in muck and clarts up to their oxters.’ Whether the rest of those learned men understood what he was talking about, I don’t know, but he made his point forcibly and with passion. The next time I saw him I suggested that the BBC should use interpretative captions. He laughed ... and lit another tab.” Born in Newcastle, John was a fifth-generation miner, the son of Mary (nee Cain) and George Cummings. Educated at Murton council infants, junior and senior schools and Easington Technical College, he trained as a colliery apprentice electrician between 1958 and 1963 before beginning a mining career that was to last until he entered parliament. His period spent in local government also included a stint as a member of the Northumbrian Water Authority (1977-83) and the Peterlee and Aycliffe Development Corporation (1980-87). He was a member of the environment select committee in its various guises from 1990, until he was promoted to become an opposition whip by Tony Blair in 1995. In the 1960s John had led a trade union youth exchange to Czechoslovakia and this began his long interest in the region. He was chairman of the all-party Czech and Slovak group between 1997 and 2010. Following a visit to Tangshan after a terrible earthquake in 1976 that killed many miners, he developed a fascination with China, and a succession of sometimes bewildered invited Chinese diplomats would find themselves downing pints of bitter in the Colliery Inn in Murton on the eve of the annual Durham Miners’ Gala. Despite their obvious differences, John enjoyed a cordial relationship with Blair, his parliamentary neighbour in the adjoining Sedgefield constituency. He would sometimes joke that the industrial part of Blair’s constituency was “bandit territory, and he [Blair] has got me to keep an eye on it”. Blair’s own dalliance with Catholicism led him to invite John, a Roman Catholic, for a private meeting as he prepared to visit the pope on the eve of the Iraq war. John was always circumspect about the conversation, although he once let on that Blair wanted “to learn more about St Thomas Aquinas and his theory of the just war”. Despite voting to go to war himself, John later came to regret his decision deeply. He is survived by a sister, Aileen. John Scott Cummings, politician, born 6 July 1943; died 4 January 2017                                         Topics  Labour   Trade unions   The miners' strike 1984-85   Politics past   Local government

John Cummings, who has died aged 73, was one of an increasingly rare breed of Labour MPs schooled in the trade union movement, in industrial militancy and in local government, and whose roots propelled them, not always enthusiastically, into a later life in parliament.

Unimpressed by political careerists, disdainful of sections of the London metropolitan left and deeply uncomfortable with New Labour, John was “real” Labour, even if he shied away from apparently easy epithets. This extended to his choice of newspapers: he religiously took the Daily Telegraph, claiming that he needed to read it “to find out what the enemy are up to”.

Following in the footsteps of Sidney Webb, Ramsay MacDonald, Manny Shinwell and Jack Dormand, John represented the totemic Durham mining constituency of Easington from 1987 until 2010. When he was elected to parliament at the same time as a fellow former miner, Ronnie Campbell, the pair were memorably described by the journalist Andrew Roth as “rough diamonds, set to shine”. But John had come to prominence well before going to Westminster.

The journalist John Pilger recognised and admired him in his 1986 book Heroes, having interviewed him underground at Murton Colliery in between the convulsive strikes of the early 1970s that succeeded in toppling Edward Heath’s Conservative government. A personally inscribed pottery miner’s lamp given by Pilger to John sat on his hearth in his home village of Murton. Before being elected to parliament, he had been both chairman and leader of Easington district council at different times between 1973 and 1987.

By the early 1980s, and with John as one of the leading lights in the Seam (Save Easington Area Mines) campaign, the Thatcher government finally moved against the National Union of Mineworkers with its controversial pit closure programme. The Durham coalfield came out solidly for the strike in 1984, but as the year dragged on and conditions became ever more desperate for the miners and their families, a trickle of men began to return to work. Some of the more brutal confrontations of that bitter year were played out as police effectively occupied villages such as Easington Colliery and pursued fleeing pickets. At this time, John was often accompanied by his “picket pup”, Grit, a Jack Russell terrier. He would later claim that he had trained the dog to “nip at policemen’s ankles”. Grit’s exertions and loyalty to the cause were later to earn him an obituary in Tribune magazine.

John’s lifelong friend John Winter, with whom he trained to be a colliery electrician in the late 1950s, recalled watching an early televised parliamentary committee dealing with the state of the beaches in the north-east (the National Coal Board used to tip waste into the sea), in which John spoke. “He declared: ‘The poor bairns are plodging in muck and clarts up to their oxters.’ Whether the rest of those learned men understood what he was talking about, I don’t know, but he made his point forcibly and with passion. The next time I saw him I suggested that the BBC should use interpretative captions. He laughed ... and lit another tab.”

Born in Newcastle, John was a fifth-generation miner, the son of Mary (nee Cain) and George Cummings. Educated at Murton council infants, junior and senior schools and Easington Technical College, he trained as a colliery apprentice electrician between 1958 and 1963 before beginning a mining career that was to last until he entered parliament. His period spent in local government also included a stint as a member of the Northumbrian Water Authority (1977-83) and the Peterlee and Aycliffe Development Corporation (1980-87). He was a member of the environment select committee in its various guises from 1990, until he was promoted to become an opposition whip by Tony Blair in 1995.

In the 1960s John had led a trade union youth exchange to Czechoslovakia and this began his long interest in the region. He was chairman of the all-party Czech and Slovak group between 1997 and 2010. Following a visit to Tangshan after a terrible earthquake in 1976 that killed many miners, he developed a fascination with China, and a succession of sometimes bewildered invited Chinese diplomats would find themselves downing pints of bitter in the Colliery Inn in Murton on the eve of the annual Durham Miners’ Gala.

Despite their obvious differences, John enjoyed a cordial relationship with Blair, his parliamentary neighbour in the adjoining Sedgefield constituency. He would sometimes joke that the industrial part of Blair’s constituency was “bandit territory, and he [Blair] has got me to keep an eye on it”. Blair’s own dalliance with Catholicism led him to invite John, a Roman Catholic, for a private meeting as he prepared to visit the pope on the eve of the Iraq war. John was always circumspect about the conversation, although he once let on that Blair wanted “to learn more about St Thomas Aquinas and his theory of the just war”. Despite voting to go to war himself, John later came to regret his decision deeply.

He is survived by a sister, Aileen.

• John Scott Cummings, politician, born 6 July 1943; died 4 January 2017