Donald Trump inauguration: Sam Moore of Sam & Dave to perform celebration concert amid dropouts
Donald Trump inauguration: Sam Moore of Sam & Dave to perform celebration concert amid dropouts
Despite an increasing number of dropouts over the past week, Donald Trump celebration concert Make America Great Again! has tapped Sam Moore of soul duo Sam and Dave to perform. The ceremony - which is due to take place one day before the President-elect's inauguration (20 January) - will see the likes of US band 3 Doors Down, country singer Toby Keith and actor Jon Voight attending. 81-year-old Moore hit the big-time in the 60s singing alongside Dave Prater, their most famous track being a cover of the song "Soul Man" which they recorded in 1967. Moore said in a press release: “I was a participant in the civil rights movement and have seen many positive changes and advancement in my 81 years of living in this wonderful country, but I know we must all join hands and work together with our new President. I honestly believe that if we can accomplish this, the best is yet to come. We all as Americans need to unite behind our new President and give him a chance. He needs everyone’s support to make America greater, stronger and an even better country.” One singer who may not be impressed with this news is Bruce Springsteen who has been vocal about his dislike of President-elect Trump; he cites Sam and Dave as one of his chief inspirations. Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On Mexicans   “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Senator McCain   “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”   Getty Images     On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”   Getty Images     On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”   AFP/Getty Images     On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."   Getty Images     On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”   AFP/Getty Images     On president Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”   Getty Images     On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."   AFP/Getty Images     On Hilary Clinton's emails   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”   AFP/Getty Images     On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”   Getty Images     On tax loopholes   "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."   AFP/Getty Images     On his accuser   “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”   Getty Images     On his pro-life stance   “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable”   Getty Images     On his accusers   "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”   Getty Images     On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”   Getty Images  Springsteen tribute act The B Street Band are one of the acts who have dropped out of performing at Trump's inauguration which currently has just one big name attached: finalist Jackie Evancho. Singer Jennifer Holliday pulled out of her planned celebration concert performance after receiving death threats. Trump's inauguration will take place at the Capitol in Washington, DC. These are all the bands, singers and performers expected to play the event. More about: Donald Trump presidential inauguration Sam Moore Comments

Despite an increasing number of dropouts over the past week, Donald Trump celebration concert Make America Great Again! has tapped Sam Moore of soul duo Sam and Dave to perform.

The ceremony - which is due to take place one day before the President-elect's inauguration (20 January) - will see the likes of US band 3 Doors Down, country singer Toby Keith and actor Jon Voight attending.

81-year-old Moore hit the big-time in the 60s singing alongside Dave Prater, their most famous track being a cover of the song "Soul Man" which they recorded in 1967.

Moore said in a press release: “I was a participant in the civil rights movement and have seen many positive changes and advancement in my 81 years of living in this wonderful country, but I know we must all join hands and work together with our new President. I honestly believe that if we can accomplish this, the best is yet to come. We all as Americans need to unite behind our new President and give him a chance. He needs everyone’s support to make America greater, stronger and an even better country.”

One singer who may not be impressed with this news is Bruce Springsteen who has been vocal about his dislike of President-elect Trump; he cites Sam and Dave as one of his chief inspirations.

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On Mexicans “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.” AFP/Getty Images

2/18 On Senator McCain “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” Getty Images

3/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” AFP/Getty Images

4/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Getty Images

5/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” AFP/Getty Images

6/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." Getty Images

7/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” AFP/Getty Images

8/18 On president Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” Getty Images

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." AFP/Getty Images

10/18 On Hilary Clinton's emails “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” AFP/Getty Images

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” Getty Images

12/18 On tax loopholes "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." AFP/Getty Images

13/18 On his accuser “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” Getty Images

14/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” Getty Images

15/18 On his pro-life stance “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable” Getty Images

16/18 On his accusers "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Getty Images

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” Getty Images

18/18 On Hillary Clinton “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Getty Images

Springsteen tribute act The B Street Band are one of the acts who have dropped out of performing at Trump's inauguration which currently has just one big name attached: America's Got Talent finalist Jackie Evancho.

Other singers who have turned down the opportunity to perform include Charlotte Church and The X Factor UK contestant Rebecca Ferguson who wrote an open letter stating she'd only attend should she be able to perform the historically important song "Strange Fruit."

All the artists who have refused to play Trump's inauguration

Controversy has surrounded the event ever since The Rockettes revealed they were contractually obliged to perform even if they did not wish to.

Singer Jennifer Holliday pulled out of her planned celebration concert performance after receiving death threats.

Trump's inauguration will take place at the Capitol in Washington, DC. These are all the bands, singers and performers expected to play the event.