The unicorn latte looks too beautiful to drink
The unicorn latte looks too beautiful to drink
Unicorn lattes are the next rainbow bagel. A Brooklyn cafe called The End is responsible for creating this buzz-worthy beverage. But while the drink is called a latte, there is no actual coffee in it. SEE ALSO: Unicorn macarons are a thing now, and Instagrammers are losing it The End provided with their menu so we could see exactly what goes into a unicorn latte: ginger, lemon, coconut milk, honey and e3 live blue green algae, which gives the drink its blue color. The drink is garnished with turmeric and pomegranate powder, as well as edible flowers or vegan sprinkles. Image:  The End Brooklyn The unicorn latte is one of five "healing lattes" you can order at The End, and all of them tap into the unexpected. "It was named the Unicorn Latte because the recipe is made to help tap into your most mystical, colorful and vibrant self," The End told . "We want you to fly high and this drink helps you do so." Image:  The End Brooklyn Is "flying high" equivalent to the boost that regular caffeine gives us? In order words, can the unicorn latte replace a coffee-based latte? The End claims that the e3 in the drink can help decalcify the pineal gland in your brain.Â "Decalcifying the gland can lead to extreme mental clarity, and helps on restore health and vibrancy to the physical body. It is quickly becoming the antidote to the mid-afternoon brain fog for our customers." While this sounds amazing, it may not work for everyone. Especially for the over-caffeinated New Yorker, nothing can replace the kick of good old espresso. What are you looking to manifest in 2017? We want to fly HIGH and for you to join us. That's why we came up with our Unicorn Latte ðŸ¦„ made with blue green algae, lemon, ginger, honey and coconut mylk let this plant magic fuel your ascension âœ¨ðŸ“¸: @_pcq via @tmagazine #butfirstmagic #unicornlatte A photo posted by The End Brooklyn (@thendbrooklyn) on The unicorn latte is just one of many options on The End's Plant Alchemy Bar menu, which was first launched in December. It's a list of "diverse, clean and plant-based potions to help awaken your senses, elevate your mind and enhance your greatest superpower: your intuition." The menu features juice and tea lattes in addition to healing lattes, and all 12 oz. drinks sell for $9. While unicorn lattes are certainly as unique as the animal they are named after, unicorn-themed things have recently risen to popularity, with unicorn maracons blowing up Instagram and unicorn eyeliner sweeping through the world of makeup. What unicorn-inspired item will the world think up next? BONUS: 8 facts you didn't know about pizza

Unicorn lattes are the next rainbow bagel.

A Brooklyn cafe called The End is responsible for creating this buzz-worthy beverage. But while the drink is called a latte, there is no actual coffee in it.

The End provided Mashable with their menu so we could see exactly what goes into a unicorn latte: ginger, lemon, coconut milk, honey and e3 live blue green algae, which gives the drink its blue color. The drink is garnished with turmeric and pomegranate powder, as well as edible flowers or vegan sprinkles.

Image: The End Brooklyn

The unicorn latte is one of five "healing lattes" you can order at The End, and all of them tap into the unexpected.

"It was named the Unicorn Latte because the recipe is made to help tap into your most mystical, colorful and vibrant self," The End told Mashable. "We want you to fly high and this drink helps you do so."

Image: The End Brooklyn

Is "flying high" equivalent to the boost that regular caffeine gives us? In order words, can the unicorn latte replace a coffee-based latte? The End claims that the e3 in the drink can help decalcify the pineal gland in your brain.Â

"Decalcifying the gland can lead to extreme mental clarity, and helps on restore health and vibrancy to the physical body. It is quickly becoming the antidote to the mid-afternoon brain fog for our customers."

While this sounds amazing, it may not work for everyone. Especially for the over-caffeinated New Yorker, nothing can replace the kick of good old espresso.

The unicorn latte is just one of many options on The End's Plant Alchemy Bar menu, which was first launched in December. It's a list of "diverse, clean and plant-based potions to help awaken your senses, elevate your mind and enhance your greatest superpower: your intuition." The menu features juice and tea lattes in addition to healing lattes, and all 12 oz. drinks sell for $9.

While unicorn lattes are certainly as unique as the animal they are named after, unicorn-themed things have recently risen to popularity, with unicorn maracons blowing up Instagram and unicorn eyeliner sweeping through the world of makeup. What unicorn-inspired item will the world think up next?