You big babies! Giant sumo wrestlers wince as they receive a flu jab
You big babies! Giant sumo wrestlers wince as they receive a flu jab 


Not many people enjoy having an injection, and these giants of sumo wrestling are no exception.

Although they might look big and tough, the looks on their faces showed that they were not so brave when it came to having a flu jab.

As they received their vaccinations in Japan, the wrestlers were clearly upset and their faces shows them struggling as they attempted to avoid looking like cry-babies.

These sumo wrestlers were taken to a clinic in Japan to receive their flu vaccinations

From the looks on their faces, most of the giant wrestlers did not enjoy the experience

The pictures were posted on the Japanese Sumo Association's official social media account

To add insult to injury, the Japanese Sumo Association posted snapshots of their terror struck faces on their official social media account.

They hope that images of the squeamish sumos - with a combined weight of three tonnes - might make ordinary folk feel they should be brave and face the challenge.

Twenty of them were taken down to their local anti flu clinic to be given their shots.

Some apparently took it better than others, but most looked like they would rather face an opponent in the ring any day as they rolled up the sleeves of their yukaya kimonos.

The wrestlers struggled to hide their obvious discomfort - which showed in their faces

Twenty wrestlers in total received their shots at their local anti flu clinic

Health experts say Japan's influenza season got off to an early start last month

Hot spots of the disease have already been identified in Okinawa and Tochigi

Health experts in Japan say that the country's influenza season got off to an early start last month.

Ministry of health officials have advised those infected to wear masks to prevent spreading the virus through coughs and sneezes and to thoroughly wash their hands several times a day.

Hot spots have already been identified in Okinawa and Tochigi.