Siena Coach Jimmy Patsos Shakes Imaginary Hands After Rider Walks Off Floor
Siena Coach Jimmy Patsos Shakes Imaginary Hands After Rider Walks Off Floor
via @byesline: jimmy patsos just wants to shake hands dot gif https://t.co/peLhir3u71 The Rider Broncs didn't want to shake hands after they lost to the Siena Saints 78-68 on Tuesday night. Siena head coach Jimmy Patsos didn't care. With one hand in his pocket, the 50-year-old strolled along the sideline miming a handshake motion. Patsos didn't just shake one ghost hand, either—he acted as if he was congratulating the entire team on a good game. Here's another look from Michael Kelly of the : Siena wins 78-68. Rider walks off, no handhakes. Jimmy Patsos does the handshakes on his own, anyway. https://t.co/iV4Ko2zmWo Rider coach Kevin Baggett pointed to the locker room, instructing his team to avoid any more confrontation after what had been a chippy game. Here's Rider head coach Kevin Bagget going face to face with Siena coach Jimmy Patsos. https://t.co/bwIg1ye0xs So, technicals: Siena's Richard, Patsos. Flagrant 2/ejection to Wright

Rider's tech are Baggett, Jordan. Flagrant 2/ejection is Durham After things cooled off and Patsos exited in a way that'd make Vince McMahon proud, he said he was just happy nobody got hurt: "Things got out of hand the last couple of minutes. Thank God nobody got hurt." - Siena's Jimmy Patsos. Patsos finishes this by walking though the tunnel, pumping his arms. WWE is alive. https://t.co/inFCd4RyXP [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

The Rider Broncs didn't want to shake hands after they lost to the Siena Saints 78-68 on Tuesday night.

Siena head coach Jimmy Patsos didn't care.

With one hand in his pocket, the 50-year-old strolled along the sideline miming a handshake motion. Patsos didn't just shake one ghost hand, either—he acted as if he was congratulating the entire team on a good game.

Here's another look from Michael Kelly of the Daily Gazette:

Rider coach Kevin Baggett pointed to the locker room, instructing his team to avoid any more confrontation after what had been a chippy game.

After things cooled off and Patsos exited in a way that'd make Vince McMahon proud, he said he was just happy nobody got hurt:

[Twitter]