Who Will Design Melania Trump’s Inaugural Ball Gown?
Who Will Design Melania Trump’s Inaugural Ball Gown?
Nothing gets the fashion press going more than speculation about what the newly minted FLOTUS will wear to the inaugural ball . Michelle Obama stunned the world in a white gown by a then relatively unknown designer, Jason Wu , back in 2009, and Wu has since gone on to major worldwide success. Since November, some designers have come forward and said they have no interest in working with the upcoming first lady, but wherever one's political interest lies, there is no doubt ex-model Melania Trump looks great in a frock. As for what she’ll wear, we doubt that Melania will pull a Michelle and pick a gown by a small designer. If anything, the question should be, will Melania break with tradition and wear a non-American designer? After all, her most successful look to date has been a white dress by a Serbian-born designer and a pink pussy-bow blouse by an Italian designer . Looking back at Melania's style , it has been more about the big-name designers rather than the unknowns. Rumors have been swirling that Ralph Lauren will dress Melania for the inauguration, and on Wednesday, WWD reported that Karl Lagerfeld  may dress her too, but it didn’t say whether he’d do so under the Chanel brand or his own eponymous line. Here’s what we know for sure: Melania Trump has a penchant for the classic high-fashion European designers. Dior, Valentino, Gucci, Dolce & Gabbana, and Chanel are just a few of her favorites. So far, boldface names Tommy Hilfiger , Carolina Herrera and Diane von Furstenberg have all said they would dress the soon-to-be first lady, so let the countdown and the speculation begin! Who will be the one who gets the honor of dressing the next FLOTUS for the inaugural ball?

Nothing gets the fashion press going more than speculation about what the newly minted FLOTUS will wear to the inaugural ball.

Michelle Obama stunned the world in a white gown by a then relatively unknown designer, Jason Wu, back in 2009, and Wu has since gone on to major worldwide success.

Since November, some designers have come forward and said they have no interest in working with the upcoming first lady, but wherever one's political interest lies, there is no doubt ex-model Melania Trump looks great in a frock.

As for what she’ll wear, we doubt that Melania will pull a Michelle and pick a gown by a small designer. If anything, the question should be, will Melania break with tradition and wear a non-American designer? After all, her most successful look to date has been a white dress by a Serbian-born designer and a pink pussy-bow blouse by an Italian designer. Looking back at Melania's style, it has been more about the big-name designers rather than the unknowns.

Rumors have been swirling that Ralph Lauren will dress Melania for the inauguration, and on Wednesday, WWD reported that Karl Lagerfeld may dress her too, but it didn’t say whether he’d do so under the Chanel brand or his own eponymous line.

Here’s what we know for sure: Melania Trump has a penchant for the classic high-fashion European designers. Dior, Valentino, Gucci, Dolce & Gabbana, and Chanel are just a few of her favorites. So far, boldface names Tommy Hilfiger, Carolina Herrera and Diane von Furstenberg have all said they would dress the soon-to-be first lady, so let the countdown and the speculation begin!

Who will be the one who gets the honor of dressing the next FLOTUS for the inaugural ball?

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.