Barack Obama warns Donald Trump of 'enormous consequences' to Middle East shift in final press conference
Barack Obama warns Donald Trump of 'enormous consequences' to Middle East shift in final press conference
arack Obama warned Donald Trump that sweeping policy changes in the Middle East would have "enormous consequences" as he delivered his final press conference as president. He said he feared "the moment may be passing" for a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians, which had been one of the goals of his two-term presidency. The president said that he stood by the decision last month to allow a UN Security Council resolution to pass criticising Israel over the growth of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territories - a move widely condemned by the incoming Trump administration. Mr Obama warned Mr Trump against any "sudden, unilateral moves" on the conflict, two days before handing the presidency over to the Republican. "The actions that we take have enormous consequences and ramifications.. We're still the biggest kid on the block," he said. "If you're gonna make big shifts in policy, there will be consequences and just make sure you've thought it through." eplying to a question over Mr Trump's statements that he would consider ending the sanctions on Russia, Mr Obama said Moscow had "returned to the adversarial relationship that existed during the Cold War," and that the US had to ensure it remained on the "right side of history", as he said it had been in standing up to Russia in the past. “At my core, I think we’re going to be ok. We just have to fight for it, we have to work for it.” -— @POTUS  https://t.co/A0xwumsNNI r Obama's harshest critique of Mr Trump came amid praise for his daughters, whom he said were disappointed by the election result but managed to stay optimistic. "They paid attention to what their mom had to say in the campaign and they believed it, because it's consistent with what we've had to say in the household," he said of Michelle Obama's comments that Mr Trump had abused his power in his relationships with women. He suggested that Mr Trump's behaviour did not match what he and Mrs Obama had "tried to model for them," and that the president-elect's "values" did not align with those that he had tried to instill. As he left the White House press room for the final time, he said to the Washington press corps: "Good luck." Obama: Voter fraud claims are 'fake news' r Obama broke out the now-ubiquitous label that has become a favourite of his Oval Office successor's during his press conference. He said claims of widespread voter fraud were "fake news" and rooted in the history of suppressing the black vote. "We've got more work to do on race. It is simply not true that things have gotten worse," he said, while adding that Americans still all too often fall back into stereotypes and prejudice. Mr Obama still managed to pivot back to a more optimistic stance, saying: "I believe in this country. I believe in the American people. I believe that people are more good than bad." Obama on the future of the presidency Obama slams Trump, while praising his daughters r Obama's harshest critique of Mr Trump came amid praise for his daughters. He said they were were disappointed by the election result but managed to stay optimistic. "They paid attention to what their mom had to say in the campaign and they believed it, because it's consistent with what we've had to say in the household," he said of Michelle Obama's comments that Mr Trump had abused his power in his relationships with women. He suggested that Mr Trump's behaviour did not match what he and Mrs Obama had "tried to model for them," and that the president-elects "values" did not align with those that he had tried to instill. Obama on his daughters' reactions to Trump's win r Obama has said his daughters were disappointed in the election results but refused to lose hope. Here are his comments about his daughters, paraphrased. an my daughters are something. And they just surprise and enchant and impress me more and more every day as they grow up. So these days when we talk we talk as parent to child but also we learn from them, and I think it was really interesting to see how Malia and Sasha reacted. They were disappointed. They paid attention to what their mom had to say in the campaign and they believed it, because it's consistent with what we've had to say in the household... what I've tried to model for them... but we've also tried to teach them resilience and teach them hope and that the only thing that's the end of the world is the end of the world.... They don't mope, but what makes me proudest about them is they also don't get cynical about it. They have not assumed that because their side didn't win... that automatically America has somehow rejected them or rejected their values. I don't think they feel that way. Obama: America will eventually have 'a whole bunch of mixed up' presidents r Obama has spoken about the need for inclusiveness in American society and politics, predicting that it would not be rare to have non-white male presidents in the future. "We're going to have a woman president, a Latino president, a Jewish president, a Hindu president," he said. Eventually, he added, there would be mixed race presidents that defy a single label, "and that's OK too." Obama warns Trump: be aware there will be consequences to big policy shifts r Obama has warned Mr Trump about make sweeping policy changes: The actions that we take have enormous consequences and ramifications.. We're the biggest kid on the block. If you're gonna make big shifts in policy, there will be consequences and just make sure you've thought it through. Obama's post-presidency: writing, not running r Obama says he will not be running for office again "any time soon", and will take a step back from the national stage to digest his experience as president.  What Citizen Obama will speak out on r Obama said he plans to give Mr Trump plenty of space to operate after he leaves office, but will speak out when America's values are at stake. He offered some examples of things that would cause him to take a public stand. "Systematic discrimination being ratified in some fashion" "Explicit or functional obstacles to people being able to vote" "Institutional efforts to silence dissent or the press" "Efforts to round up kids who have grown up here and for all intents and purposes are American kids and send them somewhere else" Obama dodges inauguration boycott question r Obama declined to comment on the 60-some Democrats planning to boycott Friday's inauguration. "I'm not going to comment on those issues. All I know is I'm going to be there, and so is Michelle," he said. He said he has had "cordial" conversations with his successor during the transition. Pres. Obama on conversations with Pres.-elect Trump: "They are cordial...I have offered my best advice, counsel about certain issues." pic.twitter.com/lfoRZpqANq Obama: Russia acting like Cold War adversary r Obama was asked about Donald Trump's statements that he would consider ending the sanctions on Russia if Vladimir Putin reduced nuclear weapons stockpiles, or was otherwise "helping" the US. He said his standard for ending sanctions would be if Russia stopped violating international norms. Mr Obama said Russia had, "returned to the adversarial relationship that existed during the Cold War," and that the US had to ensure it remained on the "right side of history", as he said it had been in standing up to Russia in the past.  Obama 'confident justice has been served' over Chelsea Manning n the Chelsea Manning decision, the president said: First of all, let's be clear, Chelsea Manning has served a tough prison sentence. Given she went to trial, that due process was carried out, that she took responsibility for her crime, that the sentence she received was very disproportional to others and that she had served a certain amount of time that it made sense to commute. I feel comfortable justice has been served and a message has been sent. n terms of whether the decision could now mean Julian Assange may be extradited to the US, he said: I don't pay a lot of attention to Mr Assange's tweets and I'd refer you to the justice department about for any questions about extradition. Obama pays tribute to George HW Bush he 44th president p[ays tribute to the 41st, who is in hospital along with his wife Barbara: They have been a constant source of friendship and good cousel for Michelle and me over the years... They are as good a couple as we know. We want to send our prayers to them. Mike Pence attacks Obama over Manning decision ice President-elect Mike Pence says President Barack Obama's decision to commute Chelsea Manning's sentence was a "mistake," and is calling the convicted leaker a "traitor." Pence says in an interview airing on Wednesday night with Fox News' Brett Baier that Manning's actions compromised national security, endangered American personnel and compromised individuals in Afghanistan who were cooperating with US forces. The former Army intelligence analyst asked Obama to commute her 35-year sentence for giving classified government and military documents to the WikiLeaks website.  Obama bids farewell resident Barack Obama is expected to defend his decision to shorten the sentence of convicted leaker Chelsea Manning when he holds his final news conference this afternoon, two days before his second term ends. Manning was among 273 people granted clemency on Tuesday by Obama. The former Army intelligence analyst asked Obama last November to commute her 35-year sentence for giving classified government and military documents to the WikiLeaks website. Manning is more than six years into the sentence. She is to be released from prison in May. Republicans blasted the decision to commute Manning's sentence, with House Speaker Paul Ryan calling it "outrageous" and saying Obama had set a "dangerous precedent" that anyone guilty of compromising US national security will no longer have to pay for their crimes.

Obama gives last press conference as president

Says of Chelsea Manning, "justice has been served"

Lays out issues that he will speak out on post-presidency

Trump making final preparations for Friday inauguration

Barack Obama warned Donald Trump that sweeping policy changes in the Middle East would have "enormous consequences" as he delivered his final press conference as president.

He said he feared "the moment may be passing" for a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians, which had been one of the goals of his two-term presidency.

The president said that he stood by the decision last month to allow a UN Security Council resolution to pass criticising Israel over the growth of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territories - a move widely condemned by the incoming Trump administration.

Mr Obama warned Mr Trump against any "sudden, unilateral moves" on the conflict, two days before handing the presidency over to the Republican.