The Guardian view on Putin’s Europe: the new fellow travellers | Editorial

ith all the speculation surrounding Russia’s influence over European politics, seeking clarity and finding a sense of balance is a challenge. To say that Mr Putin’s regime engineered the rise of populist forces on the continent is an exaggeration if not a fallacy. France’s far-right Front National was created in 1972, years before Mr Putin got anywhere close to power. Austria’s nationalist Freedom party registered its first electoral success in 2000, at a time when Russia’s foreign policy was still geared towards finding a modus vivendi with the EU – not seeking to undermine it. Nor are all of Europe’s populists pro-Putin: Poland’s ruling nationalist PiS party is a staunch critic of the man. But that’s not to say Mr Putin’s regime hasn’t cultivated radical fringe groups in Europe, nor that some haven’t applauded him in return. Russia’s interactions with Europe have in fact become hard to analyse without taking into account the many political threads the Kremlin has built up within the EU, along with the ideological impact this has on the continent’s elections. With key European votes this year, Russia’s sway must be scrutinised, but in a cool-headed way. The double trap is to either deny or overstate Moscow’s hand. It’s not as if the Kremlin today ran a network of “comrade” parties in Europe as it did during the cold war. These days, it’s not communist revolution that’s on Moscow’s agenda, nor are its levers quite the same. If Mr Putin’s Russia finds a degree of sympathy in parts of European politics, it’s on a more complex basis altogether and in a much transformed global environment. In recent years, his swerve towards hardline nationalism and ultraconservative slogans have put him in tune with far-right European groups who share similar views. But it is also clear he has a constituency among parts of Europe’s far left, for reasons that have little to do with cultural affinities but point to the rise of anti-western sentiment. Tactical opportunism mixes at times with awkward ideological proximity. Moscow has undeniably capitalised on the growth of European movements that are fascinated by a strong man, who believe Islam and immigration are threats, who resent cultural liberalisation and who equate economic integration with a dismantling of national sovereignty. From Marine Le Pen to the leader of Hungary’s Jobbik party, there is no lack of public support for Mr Putin among Europe’s far-right populists. Much of it was on display in the aftermath of Russia’s military incursion in Ukraine in 2014. But for a variety of reasons Putin sympathisers are also found among hard-left groups, as illustrated by Alexis Tsipras’s coalition in Greece , which last year lambasted sanctions against Russia. In this realm, critics of global capitalism find common ground with Russia’s oligarchic power structure. To document a precise axis between Moscow and European populists is not a simple task. Financial connections are suspected but have rarely been proven or admitted. Russia’s support is mostly detected through its propaganda machine. One revealing moment, however, came in 2014 when several radical European parties, both left and right, sent “observers” to Crimea’s staged “referendum” . Recently the Austrian FPO party signed a “cooperation agreement” with Moscow’s “United Russia”. There are indications that Italy’s Five Star movement may be joining the fold . The Kremlin stands to gain in many ways. Europe’s populists, left and right, tend to downplay Putin’s destabilising moves in Ukraine and Syria because their worldview has generally been centred on criticism of the US. Echoing Moscow’s hostility to the EU – and its drive to get sanctions lifted – they ascribe the Ukrainian crisis to western overreach. Still, Mr Putin’s populist de facto allies in Europe form an incoherent group; far-left critics of Nato and globalisation (such as Die Linke, in Germany) find themselves sitting alongside xenophobes and admirers of authoritarianism. This paints a picture where extremes meet to Moscow’s advantage. Voters can be helped through this maze. Casting some light on these discrepancies helps unmask what lies within. Putin may enjoy being seen as a disrupter of liberal democracy as much as he would like to see the EU unravel, but that does little to hide the contradictions among supportive groups in Europe who cast him either as a champion of nativism, an anti-establishment hero or a welcome challenge to a US-led global order. With the arrival of Donald Trump , exposing Europe’s pro-Putin populist web, its many contradictions, and at times its opaqueness, has never been more urgent. Topics  Vladimir Putin   Russia   European Union   Europe   The far right     Donald Trump   Marine Le Pen   France   Italy   Germany   Hungary

Moscow may relish a role as a disrupter of liberal democracy as much as it would like to see the EU unravel, but that does little to hide the contradictions among pro-Russian political groups in Europe

With all the speculation surrounding Russia’s influence over European politics, seeking clarity and finding a sense of balance is a challenge. To say that Mr Putin’s regime engineered the rise of populist forces on the continent is an exaggeration if not a fallacy. France’s far-right Front National was created in 1972, years before Mr Putin got anywhere close to power. Austria’s nationalist Freedom party registered its first electoral success in 2000, at a time when Russia’s foreign policy was still geared towards finding a modus vivendi with the EU – not seeking to undermine it. Nor are all of Europe’s populists pro-Putin: Poland’s ruling nationalist PiS party is a staunch critic of the man. But that’s not to say Mr Putin’s regime hasn’t cultivated radical fringe groups in Europe, nor that some haven’t applauded him in return. Russia’s interactions with Europe have in fact become hard to analyse without taking into account the many political threads the Kremlin has built up within the EU, along with the ideological impact this has on the continent’s elections. With key European votes this year, Russia’s sway must be scrutinised, but in a cool-headed way.

The double trap is to either deny or overstate Moscow’s hand. It’s not as if the Kremlin today ran a network of “comrade” parties in Europe as it did during the cold war. These days, it’s not communist revolution that’s on Moscow’s agenda, nor are its levers quite the same. If Mr Putin’s Russia finds a degree of sympathy in parts of European politics, it’s on a more complex basis altogether and in a much transformed global environment. In recent years, his swerve towards hardline nationalism and ultraconservative slogans have put him in tune with far-right European groups who share similar views. But it is also clear he has a constituency among parts of Europe’s far left, for reasons that have little to do with cultural affinities but point to the rise of anti-western sentiment.

Tactical opportunism mixes at times with awkward ideological proximity. Moscow has undeniably capitalised on the growth of European movements that are fascinated by a strong man, who believe Islam and immigration are threats, who resent cultural liberalisation and who equate economic integration with a dismantling of national sovereignty. From Marine Le Pen to the leader of Hungary’s Jobbik party, there is no lack of public support for Mr Putin among Europe’s far-right populists. Much of it was on display in the aftermath of Russia’s military incursion in Ukraine in 2014. But for a variety of reasons Putin sympathisers are also found among hard-left groups, as illustrated by Alexis Tsipras’s coalition in Greece, which last year lambasted sanctions against Russia. In this realm, critics of global capitalism find common ground with Russia’s oligarchic power structure.

To document a precise axis between Moscow and European populists is not a simple task. Financial connections are suspected but have rarely been proven or admitted. Russia’s support is mostly detected through its propaganda machine. One revealing moment, however, came in 2014 when several radical European parties, both left and right, sent “observers” to Crimea’s staged “referendum”. Recently the Austrian FPO party signed a “cooperation agreement” with Moscow’s “United Russia”. There are indications that Italy’s Five Star movement may be joining the fold. The Kremlin stands to gain in many ways. Europe’s populists, left and right, tend to downplay Putin’s destabilising moves in Ukraine and Syria because their worldview has generally been centred on criticism of the US. Echoing Moscow’s hostility to the EU – and its drive to get sanctions lifted – they ascribe the Ukrainian crisis to western overreach. Still, Mr Putin’s populist de facto allies in Europe form an incoherent group; far-left critics of Nato and globalisation (such as Die Linke, in Germany) find themselves sitting alongside xenophobes and admirers of authoritarianism. This paints a picture where extremes meet to Moscow’s advantage.

Voters can be helped through this maze. Casting some light on these discrepancies helps unmask what lies within. Putin may enjoy being seen as a disrupter of liberal democracy as much as he would like to see the EU unravel, but that does little to hide the contradictions among supportive groups in Europe who cast him either as a champion of nativism, an anti-establishment hero or a welcome challenge to a US-led global order. With the arrival of Donald Trump, exposing Europe’s pro-Putin populist web, its many contradictions, and at times its opaqueness, has never been more urgent.