President-Elect Donald Trump Tells His Biggest Lie Yet
President-Elect Donald Trump Tells His Biggest Lie Yet
Breaking: A man who just days ago tweeted his disapproval of and civil rights icon John Lewis now claims he's not a fan of the very platform from which those tweets were sent. In a puff piece courtesy of Tuesday, Trump claimed the only reason he even uses Twitter is because journalists keep doing journalism. "Look, I don't like tweeting," Trump claimed. "I have other things I could be doing, but I get very dishonest media, very dishonest press, and it's my only way that I can counteract." Amazingly, Trump then mentioned Lewis again before diving a bit further into his reasoning for being so prolific on Twitter: "...If the press were honest - which it's not - I would absolutely not use Twitter. I wouldn't have to." -President-elect Trump pic.twitter.com/duF1ljATHY "When people make statements about me, I'm able to say it and call 'em out," Trump said. "You know, I have now… I'm gonna be close to 50 million people including Facebook and Instagram and different things. I'm gonna be very close to 50 million people, so when people misrepresent me, because the press is very dishonest, unbelievably dishonest, and when people misrepresent me, I have at least a way of saying it's a false statement." A sizable portion of the American people, however, feel differently about Trump's use of Twitter . A poll released by Quinnipiac University last week found that 64 percent of voters think Trump should delete his damn account as soon as he steps into the White House. Broken down by demographic, the number of people who feel Trump should stop tweeting leaps to 71 percent among those between the ages of 18 and 34. Anyway, here are some recent tweets from someone who allegedly doesn't like to tweet: Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a..... FAKE NEWS - A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT! " @zhu_amy3 : @realDonaldTrump It's Morning in America again!!! ☀️☀️☀️Thank you President-Elect Donald Trump!!! So proud of you!!!!" THANKS! Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S. I can use all the help I can get! . @NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! And here's Trump staring into the camera while allegedly using a pen to put his own words onto a piece of paper: Writing my inaugural address at the Winter White House, Mar-a-Lago, three weeks ago. Looking forward to Friday. #Inauguration  pic.twitter.com/S701FdTCQu But he definitely doesn't like tweeting.

Breaking: A man who just days ago tweeted his disapproval of Saturday Night Live and civil rights icon John Lewis now claims he's not a fan of the very platform from which those tweets were sent. In a puff piece courtesy of Fox & Friends Tuesday, Trump claimed the only reason he even uses Twitter is because journalists keep doing journalism.

"Look, I don't like tweeting," Trump claimed. "I have other things I could be doing, but I get very dishonest media, very dishonest press, and it's my only way that I can counteract." Amazingly, Trump then mentioned Lewis again before diving a bit further into his reasoning for being so prolific on Twitter:

"...If the press were honest - which it's not - I would absolutely not use Twitter. I wouldn't have to." -President-elect Trump pic.twitter.com/duF1ljATHY — FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) January 18, 2017

"When people make statements about me, I'm able to say it and call 'em out," Trump said. "You know, I have now… I'm gonna be close to 50 million people including Facebook and Instagram and different things. I'm gonna be very close to 50 million people, so when people misrepresent me, because the press is very dishonest, unbelievably dishonest, and when people misrepresent me, I have at least a way of saying it's a false statement."

A sizable portion of the American people, however, feel differently about Trump's use of Twitter. A poll released by Quinnipiac University last week found that 64 percent of voters think Trump should delete his damn account as soon as he steps into the White House. Broken down by demographic, the number of people who feel Trump should stop tweeting leaps to 71 percent among those between the ages of 18 and 34.

Anyway, here are some recent tweets from someone who allegedly doesn't like to tweet:

Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017

FAKE NEWS - A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017

"@zhu_amy3: @realDonaldTrump It's Morning in America again!!! ☀️☀️☀️Thank you President-Elect Donald Trump!!! So proud of you!!!!" THANKS! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2017

Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S. I can use all the help I can get! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2017

.@NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2017

And here's Trump staring into the camera while allegedly using a pen to put his own words onto a piece of paper:

Writing my inaugural address at the Winter White House, Mar-a-Lago, three weeks ago. Looking forward to Friday. #Inauguration pic.twitter.com/S701FdTCQu — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 18, 2017

But he definitely doesn't like tweeting.