The Chainsmokers Teamed With Sony For First 'Lost In Music' VR Festival Experience
The Chainsmokers Teamed With Sony For First 'Lost In Music' VR Festival Experience
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance The Chainsmokers Teamed With Sony For First 'Lost In Music' VR Festival Experience  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Why does summer festival season ever have to end? Well, because the Earth spins on an axis while it circles the Sun, days get longer and shorter depending on its position in space, so on and so forth. BORING! We want to party forever, and thanks to developments in virtual reality technology, human kind is closer to perma-summer than ever before. Sony is doing its part to warm the winter months with a new, immersive event series called Lost in Music, the first event of which, dubbed “The Beginning,” debuted days ago with DJ performances from The Chainsmokers and fellow Disruptor Records artists Lost Kings and Vanic . Attendees were greeted in a sophisticated scene construction. People felt a real chill as they walked through a “snow-covered forest” into a room where Playstation VR headsets awaited. Once immersed in the 360 world, viewers “flew” from the winter back to warmer summer surroundings, and when the headset came off, they were whisked into a big, green, and summery new room where the snow had melted from the trees and a great big hill served as a stage.  “This theatrical experience for Sony and The Chainsmokers is a great combination of cutting edge VR, running in real-time for maximum ‘presence,’ with a hyper-real musical experience, all taking place in the real world,” says Tim Dillon, Head of VR & Immersive Content at MPC, in an emailed statement. This was only the first of a handful of Lost in Music events Sony has up its sleeve. Check out pics from the event below, and visit Lost in Music online for more information.

Why does summer festival season ever have to end? Well, because the Earth spins on an axis while it circles the Sun, days get longer and shorter depending on its position in space, so on and so forth. BORING! We want to party forever, and thanks to developments in virtual reality technology, human kind is closer to perma-summer than ever before.

Sony is doing its part to warm the winter months with a new, immersive event series called Lost in Music, the first event of which, dubbed “The Beginning,” debuted days ago with DJ performances from The Chainsmokers and fellow Disruptor Records artists Lost Kings and Vanic.

Attendees were greeted in a sophisticated scene construction. People felt a real chill as they walked through a “snow-covered forest” into a room where Playstation VR headsets awaited. Once immersed in the 360 world, viewers “flew” from the winter back to warmer summer surroundings, and when the headset came off, they were whisked into a big, green, and summery new room where the snow had melted from the trees and a great big hill served as a stage.

“This theatrical experience for Sony and The Chainsmokers is a great combination of cutting edge VR, running in real-time for maximum ‘presence,’ with a hyper-real musical experience, all taking place in the real world,” says Tim Dillon, Head of VR & Immersive Content at MPC, in an emailed statement.

This was only the first of a handful of Lost in Music events Sony has up its sleeve. Check out pics from the event below, and visit Lost in Music online for more information.