Kerry Washington Says ‘Scandal’ Had to Rewrite Russian Hacking Plot Line
Kerry Washington Says ‘Scandal’ Had to Rewrite Russian Hacking Plot Line
Rather than art imitating life, according to Kerry Washington, life is now imitating art. Washington, star of the hit ABC show , stopped by on Tuesday and talked about changes that had to be made to the show’s plot because the real-life U.S. election hit a little too close to what had been written for the show months before. There was one storyline in particular that the writers never saw coming in real life. “Shonda (Rhimes) was thinking of doing a Russian hacking story toward the end of the season that we had to scrap because it used to be that was this crazy show that was outside the realm of possibility. Not anymore,” Washington said. Ellen DeGeneres followed with, “That is outrageous that you had to get rid of the Russian hackers because it actually happened. So now , it’s not a drama anymore, it’s a documentary.” Whether or not the Russian hackers actually influenced our election is a point of contention between president-elect Donald Trump and pretty much the entire intelligence community. Trump, of course, is skeptical that it occurred, while every intelligence agency in this country recently signed a letter saying that it did. Another similarity between and the U.S. election may be the outcome. Washington said we’ll find out who the next president will be within the first 10 minutes of the show. She didn’t necessarily give away any spoilers, but may have dropped a pretty big hint. You’ve been warned. “We shot the episodes way before the actual election, so we were just following the story of what they thought was good for these characters. But it will be hard to believe that we didn’t know about our election because it’s so surreal what happens on the show,” Washington said. Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter .

Rather than art imitating life, according to Kerry Washington, life is now imitating art. Washington, star of the hit ABC show Scandal, stopped by Ellen on Tuesday and talked about changes that had to be made to the show’s plot because the real-life U.S. election hit a little too close to what had been written for the show months before. There was one storyline in particular that the writers never saw coming in real life.

“Shonda (Rhimes) was thinking of doing a Russian hacking story toward the end of the season that we had to scrap because it used to be that Scandal was this crazy show that was outside the realm of possibility. Not anymore,” Washington said.

Ellen DeGeneres followed with, “That is outrageous that you had to get rid of the Russian hackers because it actually happened. So now Scandal, it’s not a drama anymore, it’s a documentary.”

Whether or not the Russian hackers actually influenced our election is a point of contention between president-elect Donald Trump and pretty much the entire intelligence community. Trump, of course, is skeptical that it occurred, while every intelligence agency in this country recently signed a letter saying that it did.

Another similarity between Scandal and the U.S. election may be the outcome. Washington said we’ll find out who the next president will be within the first 10 minutes of the show. She didn’t necessarily give away any spoilers, but may have dropped a pretty big hint. You’ve been warned.

“We shot the episodes way before the actual election, so we were just following the story of what they thought was good for these characters. But it will be hard to believe that we didn’t know about our election because it’s so surreal what happens on the show,” Washington said.

Check out Joe Biden praising Mike Pence, attempting to quell national security fears on ‘The View’:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.