Former Motown Singer Chrisette Michele Will Perform at Donald Trump's Inauguration
Former Motown Singer Chrisette Michele Will Perform at Donald Trump's Inauguration
With only two more days until Donald Trump’s inauguration , R&B singer Chrisette Michele has announced she will perform during the festivities. According to the , the 34-year-old singer-songwriter inked the deal about a week ago, but decided to keep her involvement "a big secret" because she feared potential backlash. Michele’s team reportedly became concerned following the wave of criticism singer Jennifer Holliday faced after she was listed as an inauguration performer . (Holliday, a black singer and actress, has since backed out of the gig .) Sources told the that Trump’s inaugural committee contacted Michele to perform "Intentional" alongside singers Travis Greene, Jonathan McReynolds, and Tye Tribbet; however, that plan was later scrapped after two of the three artists rejected the offer. Michele ultimately agreed to perform a solo R&B set, much to the dismay of Questlove, who reacted to the news on Twitter. I'd pay Chrisette to NOT perform 😔 Others also expressed their disappointment in Michele, a former Motown singer who has worked with everyone from Drake and Rick Ross to Jay Z and Ghostface Killah. You can check out some of the Twitter responses below. Chrisette Michele after she seen that check for Donald Trump's Inauguration concert. 💵 pic.twitter.com/akQaGIoDzk When black folks find out Chrisette Michele is sangin' for Trump! pic.twitter.com/kzNQGSCHFN I hope whatever Donald Trump is paying Chrisette Michele is enough to last her a lifetime because 90% of her fans are gone. I don't even think Trump knows who Chrisette Michele is but any chance he can say "look at my African American over there" he'll takr it. Well how long is Chrisette Michele cancelled? Black twitter: a couple of forevers... Chrisette Michele performing at the Inauguration? pic.twitter.com/iTHMKJRGsw Leave Chrisette Michele alone this probably the only gig she can get booked for ​The news has also sparked the hashtag #ChrisetteIsCanceled: Trump is not 4 black ppl. Trump is not 4 women. As a member of both demographics, #ChrisetteMichele should be ashamed #ChrisetteIsCancelled She is removed from all further subscription and participation in Black Girl Magic #ChrisetteIsCancelled I went to a #chrisettemichelle concert three years ago. Now I want my money back. #ChrisetteIsCancelled 😤 Even though her career seems to have flatlined a year or two ago.  #ChrisetteIsCancelled . What's wrong with her? #ChrisetteIsCancelled Thank God for streaming. I can dramatically delete her w/o being pissed that I lost money. #chrisettemichelle

With only two more days until Donald Trump’s inauguration, R&B singer Chrisette Michele has announced she will perform during the festivities.

According to the New York Daily News, the 34-year-old singer-songwriter inked the deal about a week ago, but decided to keep her involvement "a big secret" because she feared potential backlash. Michele’s team reportedly became concerned following the wave of criticism singer Jennifer Holliday faced after she was listed as an inauguration performer. (Holliday, a black singer and actress, has since backed out of the gig.)

Sources told the Daily News that Trump’s inaugural committee contacted Michele to perform "Intentional" alongside singers Travis Greene, Jonathan McReynolds, and Tye Tribbet; however, that plan was later scrapped after two of the three artists rejected the offer. Michele ultimately agreed to perform a solo R&B set, much to the dismay of Questlove, who reacted to the news on Twitter.

I'd pay Chrisette to NOT perform 😔 — Questlove Gomez (@questlove) January 18, 2017

Others also expressed their disappointment in Michele, a former Motown singer who has worked with everyone from Drake and Rick Ross to Jay Z and Ghostface Killah.

You can check out some of the Twitter responses below.

Chrisette Michele after she seen that check for Donald Trump's Inauguration concert. 💵 pic.twitter.com/akQaGIoDzk — NUFF$AID (@nuffsaidNY) January 18, 2017

When black folks find out Chrisette Michele is sangin' for Trump! pic.twitter.com/kzNQGSCHFN — E. Mo Black 😭 (@EmoNegro1) January 18, 2017

I hope whatever Donald Trump is paying Chrisette Michele is enough to last her a lifetime because 90% of her fans are gone. — Trent Britain Jéter (@IamTrentJeter) January 18, 2017

I don't even think Trump knows who Chrisette Michele is but any chance he can say "look at my African American over there" he'll takr it. — ㅤㅤㅤㅤㅤ (@You_Love_Ernest) January 18, 2017

Well how long is Chrisette Michele cancelled?

Black twitter: a couple of forevers... — Ash (@Melanin_poppin_) January 18, 2017

Chrisette Michele performing at the Inauguration? pic.twitter.com/iTHMKJRGsw — QuavoGiselleKnowles. (@asieybarbie) January 18, 2017

Leave Chrisette Michele alone this probably the only gig she can get booked for — @ (@OGICEY) January 18, 2017

​The news has also sparked the hashtag #ChrisetteIsCanceled:

Trump is not 4 black ppl. Trump is not 4 women. As a member of both demographics, #ChrisetteMichele should be ashamed #ChrisetteIsCancelled — Kiesha Preston (@MsKieshaNicole) January 18, 2017

She is removed from all further subscription and participation in Black Girl Magic #ChrisetteIsCancelled — Caroline (@Quamalis) January 18, 2017

I went to a #chrisettemichelle concert three years ago. Now I want my money back. #ChrisetteIsCancelled 😤 — Ama (@musu_feefiefo) January 18, 2017

Even though her career seems to have flatlined a year or two ago.

#ChrisetteIsCancelled. What's wrong with her? — Da Curvylitist 💋 (@fabfreshandfly) January 18, 2017