How Adam Carolla Went From Manual Laborer To Media Mogul
How Adam Carolla Went From Manual Laborer To Media Mogul
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Steven Bertoni       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Image courtesy of Podcast One) Listen to the full episode here: Before Adam Carolla became a media force (comedian; radio, TV, and podcast host; best selling author; movie director) he was digging ditches. And we're not talking summer job here. For almost 2 decades after high school, Carolla was a day laborer--hanging drywall, laying stucco, earthquake proofing buildings in earthquake-prone Los Angeles. A chance encounter changed all that. During a job he noticed a guy at a neighboring house who spent the afternoons working on a motorcycle. One day Carolla, a car nut who now owns the world's largest collection of Paul Newman race cars , struck up a conversation with him. The guy with the motorcycle? Jay Leno. Although not yet of Tonight Show fame, Leno gave Carolla (now the host of the popular on PodcastOne) a few tips that started him down the path of media stardom. On the debut episode of our new FORBES podcast, , Carolla shares with me how he got his start in showbiz, and key lessons from his unlikely rise to fame. Each week on I'll sit down with the types brash leaders, entrepreneurs, and entertainers you find on the cover of FORBES Magazine. Think of it as an audio longread. Thanks for tuning in and subscribing. The Forbes Interview podcast "It was a big chance encounter for me, not for him. It was a nuisance for him. He was working-- sorry, he was renting a house up in the Hollywood Hills. And I was working on the house directly across the street from his house. But these were very narrow hill streets. I was trying to do stucco patch outside these people's house, like, sorta up on their balcony. And I was lookin' off to my right. And I would see Jay come out, it seemed like about noon. And he'd come out and he'd get the newspaper and he'd go back in. I thought, 'That's not a bad schedule this guy's keeping over here.' And then at this other point about 1:00 or what have you, he would come out, now dressed head to toe in denim and open his garage and start fiddling with his motorcycles. And I think I knew it was Jay Leno. And I knew he was a working comedian. He wasn't hosting the or anything. And I told him 'You know, I like wrenching on stuff too. So, you know, if you need any help or whatever, if you don't mind me hanging out with you.' And he was, like, amenable to it.  I started explaining that, 'I'm interested in comedy and I'm curious how you got started or what advice you would have for me'. He told me, 'Go to the Deli Smoker.' I don't know why. It's a little crappy deli on Ventura Boulevard in Studio City. And he said, 'They have open mics. Go do something there.' And later on, I did a few sets there. I think I even made a recording of me doing some comedy there. And at some point I think I dropped it off in his mailbox or something with my phone number on it. And we finished the job. We moved on. And the next time I saw Jay Leno in person was when me and Jimmy were doing the ." Adam Carolla producing his popular podcast (Photo courtesy of Podcast One) My feeling is, 'have an idea that you wanna pass along.' Like, first and foremost, what's your idea? Not, where's the stage? Where's the idea?" Once you have your idea and you have your ideas and thus you write things and you shape and you mold and you inform yourself and you shape an opinion, then you could be sharing it and we're talking about Twitter, YouTube, or whatever we're talkin' about now. But who the hell knows what's gonna be around in four years or 12 years? For a young person this listening that wants to have some celebrity or build a following or an audience or whatever. Build a voice and an opinion first. And then if it resonates with the audience, then you'll get an audience. If it doesn't, the technology or the modality or the microphone is kinda moot.  I mean, don't get so caught up in the conveyance of your idea. Focus a little more on the idea and having a lot of ideas and a lot of ideas every day. And then I think magically things will work out."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Listen to the full episode here:

Before Adam Carolla became a media force (comedian; radio, TV, and podcast host; best selling author; movie director) he was digging ditches. And we're not talking summer job here. For almost 2 decades after high school, Carolla was a day laborer--hanging drywall, laying stucco, earthquake proofing buildings in earthquake-prone Los Angeles.

A chance encounter changed all that. During a job he noticed a guy at a neighboring house who spent the afternoons working on a motorcycle. One day Carolla, a car nut who now owns the world's largest collection of Paul Newman race cars, struck up a conversation with him. The guy with the motorcycle? Jay Leno. Although not yet of Tonight Show fame, Leno gave Carolla (now the host of the popular Adam Carolla Show on PodcastOne) a few tips that started him down the path of media stardom.

On the debut episode of our new FORBES podcast, The Forbes Interview, Carolla shares with me how he got his start in showbiz, and key lessons from his unlikely rise to fame. Each week on The Forbes Interview, I'll sit down with the types brash leaders, entrepreneurs, and entertainers you find on the cover of FORBES Magazine. Think of it as an audio longread. Thanks for tuning in and subscribing.

Adam Carolla on his lucky break with Jay Leno:

"It was a big chance encounter for me, not for him. It was a nuisance for him. He was working-- sorry, he was renting a house up in the Hollywood Hills. And I was working on the house directly across the street from his house. But these were very narrow hill streets. I was trying to do stucco patch outside these people's house, like, sorta up on their balcony. And I was lookin' off to my right. And I would see Jay come out, it seemed like about noon. And he'd come out and he'd get the newspaper and he'd go back in.

I thought, 'That's not a bad schedule this guy's keeping over here.' And then at this other point about 1:00 or what have you, he would come out, now dressed head to toe in denim and open his garage and start fiddling with his motorcycles. And I think I knew it was Jay Leno. And I knew he was a working comedian. He wasn't hosting the Tonight Show or anything. And I told him 'You know, I like wrenching on stuff too. So, you know, if you need any help or whatever, if you don't mind me hanging out with you.' And he was, like, amenable to it. I started explaining that, 'I'm interested in comedy and I'm curious how you got started or what advice you would have for me'. He told me, 'Go to the Deli Smoker.' I don't know why. It's a little crappy deli on Ventura Boulevard in Studio City. And he said, 'They have open mics. Go do something there.' And later on, I did a few sets there. I think I even made a recording of me doing some comedy there. And at some point I think I dropped it off in his mailbox or something with my phone number on it. And we finished the job. We moved on. And the next time I saw Jay Leno in person was when me and Jimmy were doing the Tonight Show."

Adam Carolla on how to get into media and comedy today in the age of social media:

My feeling is, 'have an idea that you wanna pass along.' Like, first and foremost, what's your idea? Not, where's the stage? Where's the idea?" Once you have your idea and you have your ideas and thus you write things and you shape and you mold and you inform yourself and you shape an opinion, then you could be sharing it and we're talking about Twitter, YouTube, or whatever we're talkin' about now. But who the hell knows what's gonna be around in four years or 12 years? For a young person this listening that wants to have some celebrity or build a following or an audience or whatever. Build a voice and an opinion first. And then if it resonates with the audience, then you'll get an audience. If it doesn't, the technology or the modality or the microphone is kinda moot. I mean, don't get so caught up in the conveyance of your idea. Focus a little more on the idea and having a lot of ideas and a lot of ideas every day. And then I think magically things will work out."