Former President George HW Bush Admitted to ICU
Former President George HW Bush Admitted to ICU
Shares               Former President George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush have been hospitalized in Houston, according to his office. George Bush, 92, was admitted to the intensive care unit at Houston Methodist Hospital to "address an acute respiratory problem stemming from pneumonia ," his office said in a statement. "Doctors performed a procedure to protect and clear his airway that required sedation," the statement read. "President Bush is stable and resting comfortably in the ICU, where he will remain for observation." As a precaution, Barbara Bush, 91, was also admitted to the Houston Methodist Hospital this morning for fatigue and coughing, the statement said. In his final presidential press conference this afternoon, President Obama said he had been in touch with their family about the Bushes' conditions. "They have not only dedicated their lives to this country. They have been a constant source of friendship and support and good counsel for Michelle and me over the years," Obama said. "They are as fine a couple as we know, and so we want to send our prayers and our love to them. Really good people."    Shares                  Former President George HW Bush Admitted to ICU   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   The Note: The Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Comparing US to Putin's Russia Draws Bipartisan Backlash   Democrat: 'Everything Depends' on Gorsuch's Answers   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court

Former President George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush have been hospitalized in Houston, according to his office.

George Bush, 92, was admitted to the intensive care unit at Houston Methodist Hospital to "address an acute respiratory problem stemming from pneumonia," his office said in a statement.

"Doctors performed a procedure to protect and clear his airway that required sedation," the statement read. "President Bush is stable and resting comfortably in the ICU, where he will remain for observation."

As a precaution, Barbara Bush, 91, was also admitted to the Houston Methodist Hospital this morning for fatigue and coughing, the statement said.

In his final presidential press conference this afternoon, President Obama said he had been in touch with their family about the Bushes' conditions.

"They have not only dedicated their lives to this country. They have been a constant source of friendship and support and good counsel for Michelle and me over the years," Obama said. "They are as fine a couple as we know, and so we want to send our prayers and our love to them. Really good people."

This is a breaking news story. Please check back for updates.

ABC News' Gina Sunseri contributed to this report.