Barack Obama uses final press conference as US President to defend slashing Chelsea Manning's sentence



Barack Obama uses final press conference as US President to defend slashing Chelsea Manning's sentence

Updated

United States President Barack Obama has defended his decision to commute the prison sentence of Chelsea Manning, the former US army intelligence analyst jailed for leaking classified files to WikiLeaks.

Key points: Obama says constructive relationship with Russia in US and world's interest

Outgoing president backed two-state solution to solve Israeli-Palestinian issue

Trump "won election so appropriate to go forward with his vision and values"

In his final press conference before his term ends on Friday, Mr Obama covered a range of issues including President-elect Donald Trump and the US relationship with Russia.

He also sent his thoughts and prayers to former president George HW Bush and wife Barbara, who have both been admitted to hospital.

On Manning, Mr Obama said she had served a tough prison sentence, due process had been carried out and she took responsibility for her crime.

The former army private was serving a 35-year sentence, but will now be released on May 17.

She leaked hundreds of thousands of military incident logs, which detailed the abuse of detainees and an increase in civilian deaths during the Iraq war, to the WikiLeaks website.

It was the biggest breach of classified materials in US history.

Mr Obama told a packed news conference Manning's sentence was disproportionate to other leakers and it made sense to commute and not pardon her sentence.

"I feel very comfortable that justice has been served and a message has been sent," he said.

Russia sanctions about Ukraine sovereignty, not nuclear weapons

Mr Obama said it was in the interest of the US and the world to have a constructive relationship with Russia although Vladimir Putin's return to the presidency had escalated anti-American rhetoric in Russia.

Just the day before Mr Putin had accused the outgoing US administration of trying to undermine Mr Trump by spreading fake allegations and said those who are doing it are "worse than prostitutes".

Mr Obama defended the sanctions on Russia which he said were because of encroachments on Ukraine sovereignty and independence.

He said it would best serve American and global interests if there was no confusion between why the Ukraine sanctions were imposed and "a whole set of other issues".

And on Mr Trump, Mr Obama said as he won the election, it was, "appropriate for him to go forward with his vision and values".

He said many of Mr Trump's views would be shaped by advisers and it was important to pay attention to the confirmation hearings.

Israel's chance to fix 'unsustainable' situation might be passing

On the Middle East, Mr Obama said: "I continue to be worried about Israeli-Palestinian issue because the status quo is unsustainable, bad for both countries, the region and national security."

He said the US could not force the parties to arrive at peace, but it could encourage and facilitate it.

Last month, the Obama administration allowed the UN Security Council to adopt a resolution demanding an end to Israeli settlements, defying pressure from Mr Trump as well as Israel and several US senators who urged Washington to use its veto.

Mr Obama told reporters he could not see how the issue would be resolved in a way that maintained Israel as both Jewish and a democracy if there was not two states.

He said the goal of the UN resolution was to say the growth of settlements would increasingly make a two-state solution impossible and it was important for the US to send a "wake up call" that this moment might be passing.

Just a week ago, Mr Obama's administration repealed a measure granting automatic residency to virtually every Cuban who arrived in the United States, whether or not they had visas.

The move ended a longstanding exception to US immigration policy.

Obama told journalists the "wet foot, dry foot" immigration policy for Cubans — which made the distinction between asylum seekers caught on waters between Cuba and the US and people who made it to shore — was "a carryover of the old way of thinking" that did not make sense anymore.

As well addressing some of his final decisions, Mr Obama defended the importance of a free press.

He told reporters that while he might not have enjoyed every story they filed, journalists were supposed to be sceptics, not sycophants, and ask tough questions.

"You're supposed to cast a critical eye on folks who hold enormous power and make sure that we are accountable to the people who sent us here — and you have done that," Mr Obama said.

"Having you in this building has made this place work better. It keeps us honest. It makes us work harder.

"I spent a lot of time in my farewell address talking about the state of our democracy. It goes without saying that essential to that is a free press.

"So America needs you and our democracy needs you."

Reuters

Topics: world-politics, united-states

First posted