The forecast won’t budge — rain seems inevitable for Trump’s inauguration

The forecast has become more certain that Friday is going to be cloudy, damp and cool for President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration ceremony and the subsequent parade. Given the crowds and tight security at the event, we’re recommending raincoats and ponchos instead of umbrellas — even for the nonticketed areas. If you’re heading downtown Friday, expect temperatures to be in the 40s. The high looks like it will be in the upper 40s — maybe 50 degrees on the nose — but that’s not going to feel warm with showers and gray, cloudy skies. Dress warmly with a waterproof outer layer, which has the added benefit of blocking the breeze. The Secret Service is prohibiting umbrellas in the ticketed areas of the Mall. Even in the nonticketed areas, “any other items determined to be potential safety hazards” will be confiscated, which doesn’t entirely rule out umbrellas. If you’re going to take an umbrella, I suggest something small and cheap that, in the worst case, you won’t regret handing over to authorities. Saturday events will be dry. Clouds may hang around but temperatures will be as much as 10 degrees warmer. Overall, it will be the more pleasant day to be outside.   Rain start time is still the uncertainty on Friday, but our confidence is very high that crowds will have to deal with showers at some point. Rain could begin as early as 7 a.m. and last until late afternoon. We’re not expecting heavy rain, just a cool, damp day with showers on and off. Just after sunrise, the temperature in D.C. will only be in the upper 30s, and it might already be raining. If you’re heading down to the Capitol around 7 or 8 a.m., bundle up. At noon, which is Trump’s swearing-in time, there’s a 70 percent chance of showers, and the temperature will have climbed above 45 degrees. At approximately 3 p.m., when the parade will begin, temperatures could be around 50 degrees, and the rain may have started to fade, but best to hang on to your ponchos in case of stray showers. Here’s what the other outlets are predicting for Friday: The : 49 degrees, 80 percent chance of rain mainly before 4 p.m. : 49 degrees, rain likely after 10 a.m. : 49 degrees, 57 percent chance of rain



The Capitol in Washington, is seen at dawn, Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2017, as the city prepares for Friday’s inauguration of Donald Trump as president. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)

The forecast has become more certain that Friday is going to be cloudy, damp and cool for President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration ceremony and the subsequent parade. Given the crowds and tight security at the event, we’re recommending raincoats and ponchos instead of umbrellas — even for the nonticketed areas.

If you’re heading downtown Friday, expect temperatures to be in the 40s. The high looks like it will be in the upper 40s — maybe 50 degrees on the nose — but that’s not going to feel warm with showers and gray, cloudy skies. Dress warmly with a waterproof outer layer, which has the added benefit of blocking the breeze.

The Secret Service is prohibiting umbrellas in the ticketed areas of the Mall. Even in the nonticketed areas, “any other items determined to be potential safety hazards” will be confiscated, which doesn’t entirely rule out umbrellas. If you’re going to take an umbrella, I suggest something small and cheap that, in the worst case, you won’t regret handing over to authorities.

Saturday events will be dry. Clouds may hang around but temperatures will be as much as 10 degrees warmer. Overall, it will be the more pleasant day to be outside.

[Inauguration Day 2017: Latest news and updates]

Rain start time is still the uncertainty on Friday, but our confidence is very high that crowds will have to deal with showers at some point. Rain could begin as early as 7 a.m. and last until late afternoon. We’re not expecting heavy rain, just a cool, damp day with showers on and off.

Just after sunrise, the temperature in D.C. will only be in the upper 30s, and it might already be raining. If you’re heading down to the Capitol around 7 or 8 a.m., bundle up. At noon, which is Trump’s swearing-in time, there’s a 70 percent chance of showers, and the temperature will have climbed above 45 degrees. At approximately 3 p.m., when the parade will begin, temperatures could be around 50 degrees, and the rain may have started to fade, but best to hang on to your ponchos in case of stray showers.

Here’s what the other outlets are predicting for Friday:

The National Weather Service: 49 degrees, 80 percent chance of rain mainly before 4 p.m.

Weather Underground: 49 degrees, rain likely after 10 a.m.

AccuWeather: 49 degrees, 57 percent chance of rain