Choice for Health Secretary Is Vague on Replacing Affordable Care Act
Choice for Health Secretary Is Vague on Replacing Affordable Care Act
Bernie Sanders Gets Tough on Tom Price Tom Price, the nominee for secretary of health and human services, answered pointed questions from Senator Bernie Sanders during his confirmation hearing on Wednesday.      WASHINGTON — Representative Tom Price, the man President-elect Donald J. Trump has chosen to lead the Department of Health and Human Services , promised on Wednesday to make sure people do not “fall through the cracks” if the Affordable Care Act is repealed, and set a goal to increase the number of people with health insurance . But at a hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, Mr. Price provided only vague reassurance to members of both parties who pressed him for specific policies. Republicans concluded he was well qualified; Democrats were not satisfied. “Just days ago, President-elect Trump promised, quote, ‘insurance for everybody,’” said Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the committee. “But Congressman Price, your own proposals would cause millions of people to lose coverage, force many people to pay more for their care, and leave people with pre-existing conditions vulnerable to insurance companies’ rejecting them or charging them more.” In four hours of testimony, Mr. Price, an orthopedic surgeon from the affluent northern suburbs of Atlanta, set lofty goals for a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s signature domestic achievement, but did not say how he would achieve them. Advertisement Mr. Price, 62, also denied impropriety in his trading of stocks in health care and pharmaceutical companies, saying he had left many details to his broker. The Wall Street Journal reported last month that he had traded more than $300,000 worth of shares while promoting legislation that could have affected the companies he owned stock in. Advertisement Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, said one investment looked like a “sweetheart” deal. But Mr. Price said, “I had no access to nonpublic information.” Like several other candidates for top jobs in the Trump administration, Mr. Price put a little distance between himself and the president-elect on several issues. Graphic Donald Trump’s Cabinet Is Taking Shape. Here’s the Latest List. A list of appointees and nominees for top posts in the new administration. Mr. Trump said last week that drug companies were “getting away with murder” and that Medicare should negotiate with drugmakers to secure lower prices, a position long championed by Democrats and fiercely opposed by Republicans. Asked if he would press Congress to authorize such negotiations, Mr. Price did not give a definitive answer. “I think we need to find solutions to the challenges of folks’ gaining access to needed medication,” he said. He added that, if confirmed, he would try to give states more freedom and flexibility under Medicaid , the federal-state program that provides coverage for more than 70 million low-income people. In response to questions, he said states should be allowed to require certain able-bodied adults without children to work, seek work or participate in job training as a condition of receiving Medicaid. Some Republican governors want to impose such requirements, but the Obama administration has turned down their proposals. Mr. Price praised Indiana’s program to expand Medicaid eligibility under the Affordable Care Act with conservative policies that state officials say promote “personal responsibility.” “States know best” how to care for their Medicaid beneficiaries, he said, adding, “What Indiana has done is really a best practice, I think, for many other states to follow.” Mr. Trump has not said much about the future of Medicaid in the 31 states that have expanded eligibility, with large amounts of federal money. Advertisement Democratic senators were often frustrated in their efforts to get Mr. Price to say whether he supported the coverage requirements and insurance mandates in the Affordable Care Act. In a typical response, he said that patients should have “access to the kind of coverage that they want,” rather than having it dictated to them by the government. Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Mr. Price appeared to support the coverage and protections provided by the Affordable Care Act, but that “we don’t get any specifics as to how that’s going to occur” if the law is repealed. Without mandating coverage of specific benefits, Mr. Price said, the Trump administration could “make certain that individuals had the care and the kind of coverage that they needed for whatever diagnosis would befall them.” He said the administration could put in place “a different construct” that “would allow for every single person to gain access to the coverage that they want and have nobody fall through the cracks.” He did not say how the Trump team would guarantee such protection. Mr. Trump has expressed support for a provision of the 2010 health law under which insurers must allow children to stay on their parents’ policies until the age of 26. This is “baked into the insurance programs that are out there right now,” Mr. Price said. “I think that the insurance industry has included individuals up to age 26 on their parents’ policies virtually across the board,” he said, “and I don’t see any reason that that would change.” Democrats were skeptical. Senator Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire said there was no guarantee that such protections would continue in the absence of federal requirements. Insurance companies did not routinely cover drug abuse treatment in the past and might not do so in the future without a requirement, she said. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the number of uninsured Americans could increase by 18 million in one year if Congress repealed major parts of the health care law while leaving others. Mr. Price tried on Wednesday to allay fears of disruption. Advertisement “I think there’s been a lot of talk about individuals losing health coverage,” Mr. Price said. “That is not our goal, nor is it our desire, nor is it our plan.” “One of the important things that we need to convey to the American people is that nobody’s interested in pulling the rug out from under anybody,” he said. “We believe that it’s absolutely imperative that individuals that have health coverage be able to keep health coverage and move, hopefully, to greater choices and opportunities for them to gain the kind of coverage that they want for themselves and for their families.” Mr. Price said he would “absolutely” consider administrative action to stabilize the market for insurers, which are supposed to submit proposals for 2018 coverage in April. Insurers say it will be nearly impossible to calculate premiums if they have no idea what will replace the health care law. Mr. Price championed “medical innovation” as an essential ingredient of high-quality care but criticized the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, which was created by the health law to test new ways of paying doctors, hospitals and other providers. He said that the agency had great promise, but that too often, its experiments were compulsory for doctors and nearly nationwide in scope. He said he “adamantly opposed the mandatory nature” of some payment models, like one for joint replacement surgery and one for expensive drugs administered in doctors’ offices. Mr. Price said he would not object if Medicare tested payment methods with small pilot projects that could expand if successful. The health committee will not vote on Mr. Price’s nomination. Another hearing has been scheduled for Tuesday by the Senate Finance Committee, which will vote on whether to recommend confirmation. The committees share authority over issues for which the Health and Human Services Department is responsible. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2017, on Page A15 of the with the headline: Trump’s Health Secretary Pick Is Vague on Affordable Care Act Replacement.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Mr. Price, 62, also denied impropriety in his trading of stocks in health care and pharmaceutical companies, saying he had left many details to his broker. The Wall Street Journal reported last month that he had traded more than $300,000 worth of shares while promoting legislation that could have affected the companies he owned stock in.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, said one investment looked like a “sweetheart” deal. But Mr. Price said, “I had no access to nonpublic information.”

Like several other candidates for top jobs in the Trump administration, Mr. Price put a little distance between himself and the president-elect on several issues.

Mr. Trump said last week that drug companies were “getting away with murder” and that Medicare should negotiate with drugmakers to secure lower prices, a position long championed by Democrats and fiercely opposed by Republicans.

Asked if he would press Congress to authorize such negotiations, Mr. Price did not give a definitive answer. “I think we need to find solutions to the challenges of folks’ gaining access to needed medication,” he said.

He added that, if confirmed, he would try to give states more freedom and flexibility under Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides coverage for more than 70 million low-income people. In response to questions, he said states should be allowed to require certain able-bodied adults without children to work, seek work or participate in job training as a condition of receiving Medicaid. Some Republican governors want to impose such requirements, but the Obama administration has turned down their proposals.

Mr. Price praised Indiana’s program to expand Medicaid eligibility under the Affordable Care Act with conservative policies that state officials say promote “personal responsibility.”

“States know best” how to care for their Medicaid beneficiaries, he said, adding, “What Indiana has done is really a best practice, I think, for many other states to follow.”

Mr. Trump has not said much about the future of Medicaid in the 31 states that have expanded eligibility, with large amounts of federal money.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Democratic senators were often frustrated in their efforts to get Mr. Price to say whether he supported the coverage requirements and insurance mandates in the Affordable Care Act.

Photo

In a typical response, he said that patients should have “access to the kind of coverage that they want,” rather than having it dictated to them by the government.

Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Mr. Price appeared to support the coverage and protections provided by the Affordable Care Act, but that “we don’t get any specifics as to how that’s going to occur” if the law is repealed.

Without mandating coverage of specific benefits, Mr. Price said, the Trump administration could “make certain that individuals had the care and the kind of coverage that they needed for whatever diagnosis would befall them.”

He said the administration could put in place “a different construct” that “would allow for every single person to gain access to the coverage that they want and have nobody fall through the cracks.”

He did not say how the Trump team would guarantee such protection.

Mr. Trump has expressed support for a provision of the 2010 health law under which insurers must allow children to stay on their parents’ policies until the age of 26. This is “baked into the insurance programs that are out there right now,” Mr. Price said.

“I think that the insurance industry has included individuals up to age 26 on their parents’ policies virtually across the board,” he said, “and I don’t see any reason that that would change.”

Democrats were skeptical. Senator Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire said there was no guarantee that such protections would continue in the absence of federal requirements. Insurance companies did not routinely cover drug abuse treatment in the past and might not do so in the future without a requirement, she said.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the number of uninsured Americans could increase by 18 million in one year if Congress repealed major parts of the health care law while leaving others. Mr. Price tried on Wednesday to allay fears of disruption.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I think there’s been a lot of talk about individuals losing health coverage,” Mr. Price said. “That is not our goal, nor is it our desire, nor is it our plan.”

“One of the important things that we need to convey to the American people is that nobody’s interested in pulling the rug out from under anybody,” he said. “We believe that it’s absolutely imperative that individuals that have health coverage be able to keep health coverage and move, hopefully, to greater choices and opportunities for them to gain the kind of coverage that they want for themselves and for their families.”

Mr. Price said he would “absolutely” consider administrative action to stabilize the market for insurers, which are supposed to submit proposals for 2018 coverage in April. Insurers say it will be nearly impossible to calculate premiums if they have no idea what will replace the health care law.

Mr. Price championed “medical innovation” as an essential ingredient of high-quality care but criticized the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, which was created by the health law to test new ways of paying doctors, hospitals and other providers.

He said that the agency had great promise, but that too often, its experiments were compulsory for doctors and nearly nationwide in scope. He said he “adamantly opposed the mandatory nature” of some payment models, like one for joint replacement surgery and one for expensive drugs administered in doctors’ offices.

Mr. Price said he would not object if Medicare tested payment methods with small pilot projects that could expand if successful.

The health committee will not vote on Mr. Price’s nomination. Another hearing has been scheduled for Tuesday by the Senate Finance Committee, which will vote on whether to recommend confirmation. The committees share authority over issues for which the Health and Human Services Department is responsible.