Deepika's Candid Confessions About Vin Diesel, Salman Gets Acquitted & More From The Ent World
Deepika's Candid Confessions About Vin Diesel, Salman Gets Acquitted & More From The Ent World
Deepika's Candid Confessions About Vin Diesel, Salman Gets Acquitted & More From The Ent World 1. Bhai Does It Again! Salman Khan Acquitted In Arms Act Case Due To Lack Of Evidence Salman Khan gets another clean chit. Jodhpur court has acquitted the actor. After two cases of poaching of chinkara, this is the third case of alleged poaching of two blackbucks. Reports claim that lack of evidence is the biggest reason behind Salman getting a clean chit in the case. 2. I Have ‘Amazing Babies’ With Vin In My Head, Said Deepika Padukone To Ellen DeGeneres On Her Show "But, it's all in my head! So yeah, I mean in my head I think, like yeah, we are together and we have this amazing chemistry, and we live together and we have these amazing babies! But it's all in my head.", said Deepika on the show. 3. SRK Almost Took A Bullet From Underworld Don Abu Salem For Best Friend Karan Johar in 1998 Just a few days before the release of Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, Karan was put in a small room with two security guards for his protection. In one of the chapters, he mentioned, "Shah Rukh said, 'What nonsense!' He went inside and dragged me out. He said, 'I'm standing here in front of you. Let's see who shoots you. I'm standing right here.'""I said, 'No, no, no, my mother was...' He told my mother, 'Nothing's gonna happen. I'm a Pathan. Nothing can happen to me and nothing will happen to your son. He's like my brother. Nothing's gonna happen.'" 4. We Are Loving Friends, Says Hrithik On His Relationship With Sussanne Khan After The Divorce A very beautiful day..😇😊❤🌈 #happysoulsareprettiest #familiasagrada #dublife A photo posted by Sussanne Khan (@suzkr) on Dec 28, 2016 at 7:44am PST   In an interview with Mumbai Mirror, Hrithik said, "My relationship with Sussanne is peaceful. We are loving parents and friends to each other. I need all my equations to be harmonious. If I feel that I am not contributing to a person’s growth or vice versa, the whole exercise is pointless." 5. Salman Khan thanks fans after acquittal in 1998 Arms Act case Salman Khan took to Twitter to thank all his fans. He wrote, "Thank you for all the support and good wishes"

1. Bhai Does It Again! Salman Khan Acquitted In Arms Act Case Due To Lack Of Evidence

BCCL

Salman Khan gets another clean chit. Jodhpur court has acquitted the actor. After two cases of poaching of chinkara, this is the third case of alleged poaching of two blackbucks. Reports claim that lack of evidence is the biggest reason behind Salman getting a clean chit in the case.

2. I Have ‘Amazing Babies’ With Vin In My Head, Said Deepika Padukone To Ellen DeGeneres On Her Show

Romedy Now/Instagram

"But, it's all in my head! So yeah, I mean in my head I think, like yeah, we are together and we have this amazing chemistry, and we live together and we have these amazing babies! But it's all in my head.", said Deepika on the show.

3. SRK Almost Took A Bullet From Underworld Don Abu Salem For Best Friend Karan Johar in 1998

Twitter

Just a few days before the release of Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, Karan was put in a small room with two security guards for his protection. In one of the chapters, he mentioned, "Shah Rukh said, 'What nonsense!' He went inside and dragged me out. He said, 'I'm standing here in front of you. Let's see who shoots you. I'm standing right here.'""I said, 'No, no, no, my mother was...' He told my mother, 'Nothing's gonna happen. I'm a Pathan. Nothing can happen to me and nothing will happen to your son. He's like my brother. Nothing's gonna happen.'"

4. We Are Loving Friends, Says Hrithik On His Relationship With Sussanne Khan After The Divorce

A very beautiful day..😇😊❤🌈 #happysoulsareprettiest #familiasagrada #dublife A photo posted by Sussanne Khan (@suzkr) on Dec 28, 2016 at 7:44am PST

In an interview with Mumbai Mirror, Hrithik said, "My relationship with Sussanne is peaceful. We are loving parents and friends to each other. I need all my equations to be harmonious. If I feel that I am not contributing to a person’s growth or vice versa, the whole exercise is pointless."

5. Salman Khan thanks fans after acquittal in 1998 Arms Act case

BCCL

Salman Khan took to Twitter to thank all his fans. He wrote, "Thank you for all the support and good wishes"