Italy earthquakes: Many feared dead in hotel buried by avalanche
Italy earthquakes: Many feared dead in hotel buried by avalanche
Popular videos    Brexit bill: MPs vote to trigger Article 50      US officially puts Iran on notice after ballistic missile launch      Trump tells GOP to 'go nuclear' to stop Democrats blocking SC pick      Watch Donald Trump's speech marking Black History Month in full   Thirty people are missing and feared dead after an avalanche buried a small hotel in the mountains of central Italy, following a series of earthquakes . The avalanche covered the four-storey hotel in Abruzzo, an earthquake-hit zone of central Italy that had suffered days of heavy snow, smashing through windows and sending mattresses hundreds of yards down the mountain. The Italian civil protection agency said it was working to get emergency vehicles to the Hotel Rigopiano, in the town of Farindola, through roads covered in snow, joining initial rescue efforts overnight by alpine rescue squads. Earlier this morning, Italian news agency Ansa quoted the head of a mountain rescue squad saying "there are many dead". In pictures: Deadly avalanche buries Italian hotel               In pictures: Deadly avalanche buries Italian hotel       Firefighters vehicles make their way to the hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy   AP        Rescuers make their way to the hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy.   A hotel in the mountainous region hit again by quakes has been covered by an avalanche. Italian media say the avalanche covered the three-story hotel in the central region of Abruzzo   AP        a convoy of emergency vehicles en route to hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola (Pescara), Abruzzo region.   According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region. Authorities believe that the avalanche was apparently triggered by a series of earthquakes in central Italy   EPA        Two dogs wonder past a vehicle and mounds of snow at a nearby sports ground in Montereale.  Several people have died after a ski hotel was buried by an avalanche in earthquake-hit central Italy, local media reported quoting rescue services. 'There are many dead,' Antonio Crocetta, the head of a group of Alpine police that was trying to reach the cut-off hotel   Getty Images        The hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola (Pescara).   According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region   EPA        A mountain view from the main road to Monterale, after a 5.7-magnitude earthquake struck the region.  Several people have died after a ski hotel was buried by an avalanche in earthquake-hit central Italy   Getty Images        Piles of snow and rubble cascading down the stairway into the foyer of the hotel Rigopiano in Farindola, Italy   AP        A man being escorted by Alpine policemen outside the Hotel Rigopiano, near the village of Farinfola, on the eastern lower slopes of the Gran Sasso mountain.
Up to 30 people were feared to have died after an Italian mountain Hotel Rigopiano was engulfed by a powerful avalanche in the earthquake-ravaged centre of the country. Italy's Civil Protection agency confirmed the Hotel Rigopiano had been engulfed by a two-metre high wall of snow and that emergency services were struggling to get ambulances and diggers to the site   Getty Images        An Italian firefighters helicopter flies during rescue operations in the area where an hotel was hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy   AP        An aerial view of the Rigopiano Hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy   AP        Firefighters during rescue operations at hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Pescara.   EPA        According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region. Authorities believe that the avalanche was apparently triggered by a series of earthquakes in central Italy   EPA  The first rescuers reached the hotel on skis at around 4am local time (3am GMT) on Thursday morning, despite the fact that one of only two survivors found so far appears to have raised the alarm on Wednesday afternoon. Video posted online showed rescue workers met with an eerie silence as they searched the four-star spa hotel.   Footage shows rescuers search for up to 30 feared dead in buried hotel Two men who were outside the building at the time of the disaster raised the alarm. "I am alive because I went to get something from my car," one of the two, Giampiero Parete, told medical staff, according to the newspaper. He told doctors his wife and two children were buried in the avalanche. "Help, we're dying of cold," one couple trapped inside wrote to rescuers, according to Ansa. Another man, identified by news reports as Fabio Salzetta, sent a text message saying he had escaped with a maintenance worker, but others were trapped inside. quoted the text message as saying: "Some walls were knocked down." And: "I'm outside with a maintenance worker but you can't see anything of the hotel, there's only a wall of snow in front of me." Video footage showed rescuers arriving at the hotel, which had been buried under the avalanche. Later footage showed piles of snow and rubble cascading down the stairway into the foyer of the hotel. Rigopiano Farindola Fabrizio Curcio "We're dropping our rescue units down by helicopter and they are starting to dig," said Luca Cari, a spokesman for the national fire brigades. Rescue efforts were hampered by the snow, making it difficult to clear roads for heavy vehicles and ambulances to get through. Rescue vehicles had still not reached the hotel by nightfall on Thursday. Criticism over the response time of emergency services began with restaurant owner Quintino Marcella, who said he received a phone call at 5.30pm on Wednesday from one of his chefs, believed to be Mr Parete. "He calls me and says 'Help me, an avalanche has hit and the hotel isn't there anymore. It's disappeared. It's buried. Two of us are here but call rescue crews'." Mr Marcella said he immediately called police and a local emergency coordination centre, but was assured the hotel had phoned two or three hours earlier reporting everything was OK. He said he frantically tried to call other emergency numbers but no one took him seriously. However, the head of the Italy's civil protection authority has defended the response to a new series of earthquakes coupled with unusual snowfall. Fabrizio Curcio said authorities are confronting "two exceptional events that already alone would have created great difficulty in the response." While it is still not clear whether the start of the avalanche can be attributed to the earthquakes, it followed a spate of strong tremors which hit central Italy on Wednesday. Four magnitude 5.2-and-higher quakes struck near the hill town of Amatrice, around 100 km (60 miles) northeast of Rome, in the space of four hours. Much of the area had already been abandoned after last year's earthquakes. A deadly 6.2 magnitude earthquake killed nearly 300 people in the country's central regions in August. That was followed by at least two more deadly earthquakes in Umbria and Marche in October, both measuring over six on the Richter scale. Italy's Apennine mountains lie along an active fault line between the Adriatic and Eurasian plates , causing frequent seismic activity. Seismologists say previous quakes have stressed the Laga Fault, which is rupturing. More about: Italy Earthquake Italy earthquake Comments

Thirty people are missing and feared dead after an avalanche buried a small hotel in the mountains of central Italy, following a series of earthquakes.

The avalanche covered the four-storey hotel in Abruzzo, an earthquake-hit zone of central Italy that had suffered days of heavy snow, smashing through windows and sending mattresses hundreds of yards down the mountain.

The Italian civil protection agency said it was working to get emergency vehicles to the Hotel Rigopiano, in the town of Farindola, through roads covered in snow, joining initial rescue efforts overnight by alpine rescue squads.

Earlier this morning, Italian news agency Ansa quoted the head of a mountain rescue squad saying "there are many dead".

In pictures: Deadly avalanche buries Italian hotel







12 show all In pictures: Deadly avalanche buries Italian hotel





















1/12 Firefighters vehicles make their way to the hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy AP

2/12 Rescuers make their way to the hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy. A hotel in the mountainous region hit again by quakes has been covered by an avalanche. Italian media say the avalanche covered the three-story hotel in the central region of Abruzzo AP

3/12 a convoy of emergency vehicles en route to hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola (Pescara), Abruzzo region. According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region. Authorities believe that the avalanche was apparently triggered by a series of earthquakes in central Italy EPA

4/12 Two dogs wonder past a vehicle and mounds of snow at a nearby sports ground in Montereale. Several people have died after a ski hotel was buried by an avalanche in earthquake-hit central Italy, local media reported quoting rescue services. 'There are many dead,' Antonio Crocetta, the head of a group of Alpine police that was trying to reach the cut-off hotel Getty Images

5/12 The hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola (Pescara). According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region EPA

6/12 A mountain view from the main road to Monterale, after a 5.7-magnitude earthquake struck the region. Several people have died after a ski hotel was buried by an avalanche in earthquake-hit central Italy Getty Images

7/12 Piles of snow and rubble cascading down the stairway into the foyer of the hotel Rigopiano in Farindola, Italy AP

8/12 A man being escorted by Alpine policemen outside the Hotel Rigopiano, near the village of Farinfola, on the eastern lower slopes of the Gran Sasso mountain. Up to 30 people were feared to have died after an Italian mountain Hotel Rigopiano was engulfed by a powerful avalanche in the earthquake-ravaged centre of the country. Italy's Civil Protection agency confirmed the Hotel Rigopiano had been engulfed by a two-metre high wall of snow and that emergency services were struggling to get ambulances and diggers to the site Getty Images

9/12 An Italian firefighters helicopter flies during rescue operations in the area where an hotel was hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy AP

10/12 An aerial view of the Rigopiano Hotel hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Italy AP

11/12 Firefighters during rescue operations at hotel Rigopiano after it was hit by an avalanche in Farindola, Pescara. EPA

12/12 According to an Italian mountain rescue team, several people have been killed in an avalanche that has hit a hotel near the Gran Sasso mountain in Abruzzo region. Authorities believe that the avalanche was apparently triggered by a series of earthquakes in central Italy EPA

The first rescuers reached the hotel on skis at around 4am local time (3am GMT) on Thursday morning, despite the fact that one of only two survivors found so far appears to have raised the alarm on Wednesday afternoon. Video posted online showed rescue workers met with an eerie silence as they searched the four-star spa hotel.

Two men who were outside the building at the time of the disaster raised the alarm.

"I am alive because I went to get something from my car," one of the two, Giampiero Parete, told medical staff, according to the La Repubblica newspaper.

He told doctors his wife and two children were buried in the avalanche.

"Help, we're dying of cold," one couple trapped inside wrote to rescuers, according to Ansa.

Another man, identified by news reports as Fabio Salzetta, sent a text message saying he had escaped with a maintenance worker, but others were trapped inside.

Corriere della Sera quoted the text message as saying: "Some walls were knocked down." And: "I'm outside with a maintenance worker but you can't see anything of the hotel, there's only a wall of snow in front of me."

Video footage showed rescuers arriving at the hotel, which had been buried under the avalanche.

Later footage showed piles of snow and rubble cascading down the stairway into the foyer of the hotel.

Video shows show piles of snow and rubble cascading down the stairway into the foyer of the hotel (AP)

"Around 30 people are unaccounted for, between guests and workers at the Hotel Rigopiano in Farindola," said Fabrizio Curcio, head of Italy's civil protection department.

"We're dropping our rescue units down by helicopter and they are starting to dig," said Luca Cari, a spokesman for the national fire brigades.

Rescue efforts were hampered by the snow, making it difficult to clear roads for heavy vehicles and ambulances to get through. Rescue vehicles had still not reached the hotel by nightfall on Thursday.

Video shows show piles of snow and rubble inside the hotel (AP)

Criticism over the response time of emergency services began with restaurant owner Quintino Marcella, who said he received a phone call at 5.30pm on Wednesday from one of his chefs, believed to be Mr Parete.

"He calls me and says 'Help me, an avalanche has hit and the hotel isn't there anymore. It's disappeared. It's buried. Two of us are here but call rescue crews'."

Mr Marcella said he immediately called police and a local emergency coordination centre, but was assured the hotel had phoned two or three hours earlier reporting everything was OK.

He said he frantically tried to call other emergency numbers but no one took him seriously.

However, the head of the Italy's civil protection authority has defended the response to a new series of earthquakes coupled with unusual snowfall.

Fabrizio Curcio said authorities are confronting "two exceptional events that already alone would have created great difficulty in the response."

Four magnitude 5.4 and stronger earthquakes hit Central Italy on Wednesday, 18 January ( USGS )

While it is still not clear whether the start of the avalanche can be attributed to the earthquakes, it followed a spate of strong tremors which hit central Italy on Wednesday.

Four magnitude 5.2-and-higher quakes struck near the hill town of Amatrice, around 100 km (60 miles) northeast of Rome, in the space of four hours. Much of the area had already been abandoned after last year's earthquakes.

A deadly 6.2 magnitude earthquake killed nearly 300 people in the country's central regions in August.

That was followed by at least two more deadly earthquakes in Umbria and Marche in October, both measuring over six on the Richter scale.

Italy's Apennine mountains lie along an active fault line between the Adriatic and Eurasian plates, causing frequent seismic activity.

Seismologists say previous quakes have stressed the Laga Fault, which is rupturing.