Rudy Gay Injury: Updates on Kings Star's Recovery from Achilles Surgery
Rudy Gay Injury: Updates on Kings Star's Recovery from Achilles Surgery
Sacramento Kings forward Rudy Gay suffered a torn left Achilles tendon during the third quarter of a Jan. 18 game against the Indiana Pacers , the team announced . Gay underwent successful surgery on Monday and is expected to be ready for next season. Continue for updates. Here's what Gay had to say about Dr. Martin O'Malley and the recovery process following the surgery, per the team : Dr. O'Malley did an exceptional job, and I am truly thankful for him and his team. I am expected to make a full and complete recovery within the next few weeks and plan to resume on court activities by early summer. I am 100 percent committed to returning stronger than ever and will work extremely hard to get there. O'Malley also added, "He will be on crutches and in a boot for the next six weeks. He will start physical therapy in two weeks and formal rehabilitation at eight weeks post-surgery. It is anticipated that he will be able to participate in training camp and be ready to play at the start of next season."  The news comes as a gut-punch for Gay, who is in the midst of a fine season. Prior to the injury, he was averaging 18.7 points, 6.4 rebounds and 1.5 steals on 45 percent shooting from the field and 35.8 percent shooting from three. The injury could also have serious financial ramifications for Gay and the Kings. According to The Vertical's Adrian , Gay was expected to decline his $14.2 million player option for next season and become an unrestricted free agent. But now that he's suffered a major setback, the situation has grown more complicated. So long as Gay is sidelined, Sacramento's offense will take a hit. Head coach Dave could turn to Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Rocky Widner/Getty Images

Sacramento Kings forward Rudy Gay suffered a torn left Achilles tendon during the third quarter of a Jan. 18 game against the Indiana Pacers, the team announced. Gay underwent successful surgery on Monday and is expected to be ready for next season.

Continue for updates.

Gay Comments on Surgery

Friday, Jan. 27

Here's what Gay had to say about Dr. Martin O'Malley and the recovery process following the surgery, per the team:

Dr. O'Malley did an exceptional job, and I am truly thankful for him and his team. I am expected to make a full and complete recovery within the next few weeks and plan to resume on court activities by early summer. I am 100 percent committed to returning stronger than ever and will work extremely hard to get there.

O'Malley also added, "He will be on crutches and in a boot for the next six weeks. He will start physical therapy in two weeks and formal rehabilitation at eight weeks post-surgery. It is anticipated that he will be able to participate in training camp and be ready to play at the start of next season."

Gay Crucial to Kings' Offense

The news comes as a gut-punch for Gay, who is in the midst of a fine season. Prior to the injury, he was averaging 18.7 points, 6.4 rebounds and 1.5 steals on 45 percent shooting from the field and 35.8 percent shooting from three.

The injury could also have serious financial ramifications for Gay and the Kings.

According to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski, Gay was expected to decline his $14.2 million player option for next season and become an unrestricted free agent. But now that he's suffered a major setback, the situation has grown more complicated.

So long as Gay is sidelined, Sacramento's offense will take a hit. Head coach Dave Joerger could turn to Matt Barnes to play the 3, though he doesn't bring the same kind of offensive prowess that Gay does.

If the Kings can't find a suitable replacement, their chances in making the playoffs will significantly decrease.