11 Inspiring Stories Of People Who Bounced Back After Failing
11 Inspiring Stories Of People Who Bounced Back After Failing
11 Inspiring Stories Of People Who Bounced Back After Failing It is said that failure is the stepping stone to success. But what if failure, like a cursed omen, keeps repeating itself in one’s life and brings them disappointment and depression? At such times, patience, perseverance and characters are tested. It is during this time that human nature bounces back and proves its mettle. No matter how bad the situation, when the going gets tough, the tough get going. Here are 11 people who turned failure into their biggest strengths, rising like a phoenix from the ashes. 1. Soichiro Honda Imagine your entire factory being bombed twice, and then crumbling a third time after an earthquake! If we were Soichiro Honda, we would have thought that it’s destiny that doesn’t want us to build a business. However, Soichiro had no such thoughts. The founder of Honda automobiles did not give up despite his factory being bombed twice in World War ll. He then thought of making a bicycle that had a small motor in it. The scooter was then exported to the US and it was a huge hit. Thereon began the successful journey of an entrepreneur who never looked back. 2.  Ratan Tata When Tata Indica was showing no signs of progress, Ratan Tata decided to approach Ford to sell the car project. The Tatas went to Detroit, where they met Bill Ford who taunted Ratan Tata by saying, “Why did you enter in the passenger car business when you were not knowing of it? It will be favor if we buy this business from you”. This made Tata withdraw the offer. A couple of years later, when Ford was in losses, Tata group was offered the deal of buying Jaguar-Land Rover. At that time, Bill Ford said to Ratan Tata, "You are doing a big favour for us by buying Jaguar- Land Rover". Now that's a comeback! 3. J.K. Rowling Before getting her Potter books published, J.K. Rowling used to consider herself a failure. She was jobless, divorced and penniless. She had a kid, whom she couldn’t take good care of due to having no money. It was after her divorce that she started writing Harry Potter. In 1995, around 12 major publishing houses rejected Harry Potter. Two years later, Bloomsbury decided to take it up and the rest is history. 4. Anurag Kashyap Director Anurag Kashyap’s first film was taken down by the Censor Board and never made it to the theatres. His next film was delayed due to its controversial topic. His third film fell prey to negative reviews and bombed at the box-office. Then came and that made Kashyap a cult director. Kashyap has also mentioned in his interviews that he has slept on the streets because he had no money to rent a room when he came to Bombay. 5. Manoj Bhargava Manoj Bhargava, a billionaire entrepreneur in the US, was a taxi driver till the age of 30! The owner of the 5-Hour energy line was a Math prodigy. However, he discontinued college and began driving taxis to sustain his family needs. He then went to India and became a monk in an ashram. After more than a decade at the monastery, he moved back permanently to the States and then decided to change his life by entering the energy-drink market.

It is said that failure is the stepping stone to success. But what if failure, like a cursed omen, keeps repeating itself in one’s life and brings them disappointment and depression? At such times, patience, perseverance and characters are tested. It is during this time that human nature bounces back and proves its mettle. No matter how bad the situation, when the going gets tough, the tough get going.

Here are 11 people who turned failure into their biggest strengths, rising like a phoenix from the ashes.

1. Soichiro Honda

Image Credit: thetimes.co.uk

Imagine your entire factory being bombed twice, and then crumbling a third time after an earthquake! If we were Soichiro Honda, we would have thought that it’s destiny that doesn’t want us to build a business. However, Soichiro had no such thoughts. The founder of Honda automobiles did not give up despite his factory being bombed twice in World War ll. He then thought of making a bicycle that had a small motor in it. The scooter was then exported to the US and it was a huge hit. Thereon began the successful journey of an entrepreneur who never looked back.

2. Ratan Tata

Image Credit: insideiim

When Tata Indica was showing no signs of progress, Ratan Tata decided to approach Ford to sell the car project. The Tatas went to Detroit, where they met Bill Ford who taunted Ratan Tata by saying, “Why did you enter in the passenger car business when you were not knowing of it? It will be favor if we buy this business from you”. This made Tata withdraw the offer. A couple of years later, when Ford was in losses, Tata group was offered the deal of buying Jaguar-Land Rover. At that time, Bill Ford said to Ratan Tata, "You are doing a big favour for us by buying Jaguar- Land Rover". Now that's a comeback!

3. J.K. Rowling

Image Credit: telegraph

Before getting her Potter books published, J.K. Rowling used to consider herself a failure. She was jobless, divorced and penniless. She had a kid, whom she couldn’t take good care of due to having no money. It was after her divorce that she started writing Harry Potter. In 1995, around 12 major publishing houses rejected Harry Potter. Two years later, Bloomsbury decided to take it up and the rest is history.

4. Anurag Kashyap

Image Credit: india.com

Director Anurag Kashyap’s first film Paanch was taken down by the Censor Board and never made it to the theatres. His next film Black Friday was delayed due to its controversial topic. His third film No Smoking fell prey to negative reviews and bombed at the box-office. Then came Dev D and Gangs of Wasseypur that made Kashyap a cult director. Kashyap has also mentioned in his interviews that he has slept on the streets because he had no money to rent a room when he came to Bombay.

5. Manoj Bhargava

Image Credit: Economic Times

Manoj Bhargava, a billionaire entrepreneur in the US, was a taxi driver till the age of 30! The owner of the 5-Hour energy line was a Math prodigy. However, he discontinued college and began driving taxis to sustain his family needs. He then went to India and became a monk in an ashram. After more than a decade at the monastery, he moved back permanently to the States and then decided to change his life by entering the energy-drink market.

6. Steve Jobs

Image Credit: biography

Let’s not forget that the co-founder of Apple was fired from his own company! Steve Jobs rose like a phoenix after he was ousted from Apple. He then focussed on Next and Pixar and then returned to Apple to take it over from where he left. In a commencement speech, Steve Jobs has mentioned that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to him.

7. Nawazuddin Siddiqui

Image Credit: images.dawn.com

The Gangs of Wasseypur actor has lived the so called ‘Bollywood struggle’. Born to humble farmers in UP, Nawazuddin first worked as a chemist in a petrochemical company. He then left UP for Delhi where he had to earn a livelihood by taking up the job of a watchman. He bagged his first minuscule role in Sarfarosh, after which he kept making rounds of casting director offices to get noticed. He got his big break after he was noticed as a reporter in Peepli Live.

8. Chris Gardner

Image Credit: thecityinfluencer

The movie Pursuit of Happyness was based on the life of entrepreneur and stockbroker Chris Gardner. Gardner was cursed with bad luck as what he saw as a medical business opportunity turned into a burden nobody was ready to buy. His girlfriend left him and he became homeless. He then applied to an internship program at San Francisco-based brokerage firm Dean Witter and from there on he worked at a breakneck speed towards success.

9. Walt Disney

Image Credit: 7tint

The creator of Mickey Mouse tasted failure first when he went bankrupt after the failure of a cartoon series in Kansas City. Disney then headed to LA with $40 in cash, and an imitation-leather suitcase containing only a shirt, two undershorts, two pairs of socks and some drawing materials. He badly wanted to be an actor. However, life had some different plans for him. He and his brother then decided to open an animation studio in California. Look what that became!

10. Henry Ford

Image Credit: farmingtoncommunity

Believe it or not, Henry Ford went bankrupt five times! But that didn't stop him from becoming the man who revolutionised industrial production. Ford was a farm boy who started as a machine shop apprentice. He then went on to become chief engineer. In 1893, he built his first car and from there on he struggled to bring down the cost of production, which eventually led to the production of affordable cars.

11. Thomas Edison

Image Credit: thinkjarcollective

The inventor failed 1,000 times while inventing the light bulb! He even gave the now famous quote - “I have not failed 10,000 times. I have not failed once. I have succeeded in proving that those 10,000 ways will not work. When I have eliminated the ways that will not work, I will find the way that will work.” Now, that’s how one should approach failure.