#DearPresidentTrump: Americans' messages for the 45th president
Dear President Trump: Everyday American's messages to the 45th president
Tweet     Stumble     Email  Dear President Trump... “I’m retired military. I did 22 years in the service. I served in Desert Storm. My husband also served in the war. My daughter’s military as well. So we fought to serve for our country and we believe in what this country stands for. And all we’re asking is that you would do a fair job and be equal toward everyone, and make our prison system equal in fair for all people. We look forward to working with you, and we’re praying that you’ll do the right thing this whole nation. Thank you.” “Why don’t you stop acting like a teenage schoolboy with your Twitter account. And all that attacking the media and everything else that you’ve done that proves that you’re not qualified to be president. Pretty sure that’s not going to happen.” “I want to thank you and Mike Pence for working so hard to win the election. I look forward to you and your team making America great for everyone. I pray everyday for your success, and I’m a hundred percent behind you. Thank you.” “You have been given an incredible opportunity. Stop self-defeating, stop the self-destructive ridiculous behavior, and start acting the way the children of this country need to have their leaders, their public leaders, behave.” “I have been very anxious since the election and I have yet to hear anything from President-elect Trump to help ease my fears. In fact, my fears are growing daily. I don’t know how to answer my eight and nine-year-old students’ questions about the future of the world. I hear them asking, ‘Will there be war now?’ These children remember Trump saying, and I quote, ‘I like war.’ President-elect Trump, be careful with our country. Be mindful, and show some self control.” “I would like to see you straighten up the immigration system and create a good process where people can come into the country through a good process. I would also like to see you appoint judges who are fair-minded and interpret the Constitution as it was written and then intended by our forefathers. I would like to see you regain a strong support for Israel and reestablish strength around the world that has been lost in the last eight years. I would like to see equitable trade with our countries and to set a climate where manufacturing is again welcomed here. I would like to see you clean up the government waste that has taken over Washington, and maybe even eliminate or reorganize some of the departments. I would like to see you bring your business sense to Washington and help the country. And lastly I would like to see you keep your strong resolve to make America great again. And I want to wish God’s blessing on you as you go.” “I want to say congratulations, and I feel like he is more than willing to make the changes that our country needs, and we definitely need a change. And I totally agree with his ideas, and I wish him nothing but the best. I do have one concern and that is that he change -- not take the pre-existing condition clause -- out of Obamacare. My husband is very ill and needs a liver transplant... at no fault of his own he has an autoimmune disease. It’s rare and our only hope of him getting this transplant is with the insurance we have now. No other company is going to want to take him and do a transplant if they get rid of the pre-existing condition stipulation. So please, that’s the one thing I ask and it’s not just for him, but a lot of other people I know that will need that. Please do not take that away.” “My name is Dan and I’m a highschool student from Indiana. I just want to say that I was never a supporter of you, and I don’t -- I’m not particularly fond of you or your viewpoints, but that I wish you the best in office, and I hope that you can prove me wrong, what I think of you. And I hope that by the end of your presidency, I will have thought that it was a great four or eight years. I care a lot about this earth and the environment and the people in it, and I just hope from the bottom of my heart that you can make me happy with the choices you make over your presidency. Thank you sir, and here’s to a great four to eight years.” Do you have a message for Mr. Trump? Here’s how you can share: Call us and leave a voice message at 646-926-1CBS (1227) Tweet using #DearPresidentTrump Post a video of yourself to Instagram using the hashtag #DearPresidentTrump                Tweet     Stumble     Email

Hope, worry, excitement and fear. Those were some of the messages everyday Americans shared with CBS News about how they viewed the next four years.

As President-elect Donald Trump prepares to take office, CBS News asked Americans to share their messages to Mr. Trump using the hashtag #DearPresidentTrump. Over the course of just a few days, more than 3,000 voicemails as well as a collection of videos and tweets came in from people across the country. Some were supporters of Mr. Trump others were not.

Many of the messages differed, with some expressing concerns, optimism, and even advice for the 45th president of the United States. However, one common theme emerged: Most people wanted what was best for the country. Here’s what some had to say:

Dear President Trump...

























Angela, Oklahoma



“I’m retired military. I did 22 years in the service. I served in Desert Storm. My husband also served in the war. My daughter’s military as well. So we fought to serve for our country and we believe in what this country stands for. And all we’re asking is that you would do a fair job and be equal toward everyone, and make our prison system equal in fair for all people. We look forward to working with you, and we’re praying that you’ll do the right thing this whole nation. Thank you.”

























Dave, Colorado



“Why don’t you stop acting like a teenage schoolboy with your Twitter account. And all that attacking the media and everything else that you’ve done that proves that you’re not qualified to be president. Pretty sure that’s not going to happen.”





























Sandy, Arizona



“I want to thank you and Mike Pence for working so hard to win the election. I look forward to you and your team making America great for everyone. I pray everyday for your success, and I’m a hundred percent behind you. Thank you.”

























Rebecca, Washington



“You have been given an incredible opportunity. Stop self-defeating, stop the self-destructive ridiculous behavior, and start acting the way the children of this country need to have their leaders, their public leaders, behave.”





























Maureen, New York



“I have been very anxious since the election and I have yet to hear anything from President-elect Trump to help ease my fears. In fact, my fears are growing daily. I don’t know how to answer my eight and nine-year-old students’ questions about the future of the world. I hear them asking, ‘Will there be war now?’ These children remember Trump saying, and I quote, ‘I like war.’ President-elect Trump, be careful with our country. Be mindful, and show some self control.”

























Nancy, Pennsylvania



“I would like to see you straighten up the immigration system and create a good process where people can come into the country through a good process. I would also like to see you appoint judges who are fair-minded and interpret the Constitution as it was written and then intended by our forefathers. I would like to see you regain a strong support for Israel and reestablish strength around the world that has been lost in the last eight years. I would like to see equitable trade with our countries and to set a climate where manufacturing is again welcomed here. I would like to see you clean up the government waste that has taken over Washington, and maybe even eliminate or reorganize some of the departments. I would like to see you bring your business sense to Washington and help the country. And lastly I would like to see you keep your strong resolve to make America great again. And I want to wish God’s blessing on you as you go.”

























Dana, Missouri



“I want to say congratulations, and I feel like he is more than willing to make the changes that our country needs, and we definitely need a change. And I totally agree with his ideas, and I wish him nothing but the best. I do have one concern and that is that he change -- not take the pre-existing condition clause -- out of Obamacare. My husband is very ill and needs a liver transplant... at no fault of his own he has an autoimmune disease. It’s rare and our only hope of him getting this transplant is with the insurance we have now. No other company is going to want to take him and do a transplant if they get rid of the pre-existing condition stipulation. So please, that’s the one thing I ask and it’s not just for him, but a lot of other people I know that will need that. Please do not take that away.”

























Dan, Indiana



“My name is Dan and I’m a highschool student from Indiana. I just want to say that I was never a supporter of you, and I don’t -- I’m not particularly fond of you or your viewpoints, but that I wish you the best in office, and I hope that you can prove me wrong, what I think of you. And I hope that by the end of your presidency, I will have thought that it was a great four or eight years. I care a lot about this earth and the environment and the people in it, and I just hope from the bottom of my heart that you can make me happy with the choices you make over your presidency. Thank you sir, and here’s to a great four to eight years.”



Do you have a message for Mr. Trump? Here’s how you can share:

Call us and leave a voice message at 646-926-1CBS (1227)



Tweet using #DearPresidentTrump



Post a video of yourself to Instagram using the hashtag #DearPresidentTrump

CBS News’ Jareen Imam, Kevin Prince, Rebecca Lee and Jean Song contributed to this report.