Forest Officials Watch As 'Fox Jallikattu' Is Organised In Tamil Nadu
Forest Officials Watch As 'Fox Jallikattu' Is Organised In Tamil Nadu
Forest Officials Watch As 'Fox Jallikattu' Is Organised In Tamil Nadu Forest officials on Wednesday allowed the villagers of Chinnamanaickenpalayam near Salem to organise a Jallikattu-like event with a fox. Although foxes come under the Wildlife Protection Act, the event was organised with forest officials watching. The officials tied the animal's mouth to prevent it from biting the participants. The event, dubbed as 'fox Jallikattu', is conducted every year on the day of 'Kaanum Pongal' at various places in Salem district. On Wednesday, the villagers brought the fox in front of a temple and worshipped it. The animal was garlanded with flowers. Then the hind leg of the fox was tied with a thin rope while villagers participating in the 'fox Jallikattu' chased the animal trying to catch it, according to A Suresh Balan, one of the organisers of the event. Also Read: No Jallikattu This Pongal, Supreme Court Dismisses Plea Of Tamil Nadu Government To Lift The Ban He said the fox will be released into the forest. Also Read: Jallikattu - A Blood-Soaked Chapter In Indian Traditional Sports, Wasn't Always That Way

Forest officials on Wednesday allowed the villagers of Chinnamanaickenpalayam near Salem to organise a Jallikattu-like event with a fox. Although foxes come under the Wildlife Protection Act, the event was organised with forest officials watching. The officials tied the animal's mouth to prevent it from biting the participants.

TOI

The event, dubbed as 'fox Jallikattu', is conducted every year on the day of 'Kaanum Pongal' at various places in Salem district.

TOI

On Wednesday, the villagers brought the fox in front of a temple and worshipped it. The animal was garlanded with flowers. Then the hind leg of the fox was tied with a thin rope while villagers participating in the 'fox Jallikattu' chased the animal trying to catch it, according to A Suresh Balan, one of the organisers of the event.

Also Read: No Jallikattu This Pongal, Supreme Court Dismisses Plea Of Tamil Nadu Government To Lift The Ban

He said the fox will be released into the forest.

Also Read: Jallikattu - A Blood-Soaked Chapter In Indian Traditional Sports, Wasn't Always That Way

Originally Published In The Times Of India