Quiz: Can you spot the 'fake news' headlines about Donald Trump?
Quiz: Can you spot the 'fake news' headlines about Donald Trump? 
e are living in a post-truth , 'fake news' landscape, in which Donald Trump is about to become the President of the United States, but can you pick out the hoax headlines about the next commander-in-chief? Facebook has promised to clamp down on 'fake news' websites after suggestions, denied by the social network, that it influenced the US election result. Trump has even addressed the issue directly, c alling the leaking of an alleged Russian dossier making lurid allegations against him 'fake news '. He tweeted: Intelligence agencies should never have allowed this fake news to "leak" into the public. One last shot at me.Are we living in Nazi Germany? Test your own knowledge of 'fake news' below by identifying the real and false headlines: 1. Answer: Alec Baldwin has planned an anti-Trump rally ahead of the inauguration and he also joked he would perform the AC/DC song 'Highway to Hell' at the event. He tweeted: I wanna perform at Trump's inauguration. I wanna sing HIGHWAY TO HELL https://t.co/fCTArIajFb 2. Answer: A fake quote credited to the late Nirvana singer Kurt Cobain began circulating on social media in July 2016. Website Snopes noted it was published on the “Trump Train” Facebook page and has since been debunked. Kurt Cobain knew it all along about @realDonaldTrump . #Trump  pic.twitter.com/9Y0vuaatxM 3. Answer: Denzel Washington's publicist called the story "100% complete fabrication" after fake quotes about the actor praising Trump were widely circulated. This Facebook trending story is 100% made up. Nothing in it is true. This post of it alone has 10k shares in the last six hours. pic.twitter.com/UpgNtMo3xZ 4. Answer: : The new species has been christened 'Neopalpa donaldtrumpi' in honour of America's 45th president . 5. Answer: : "He arrived here and immediately ran off to meet Moscow prostitutes?" Putin said in his first public comment on claims the Russian security services blackmailed Mr Trump. "This is an adult and, moreover, a man who for many years has organised beauty contests. He socialised with the most beautiful women in the world. I can hardly imagine he rushed to the hotel to meet our girls of lower social responsibility -even though they are the best in the world, of course." 6. Answer: : Mexico drug lord El Chapo Guzman 'vowed to make Trump swallow his words' after the Republican tweeted: Can you envision Jeb Bush or Hillary Clinton negotiating with 'El Chapo', the Mexican drug lord who escaped from prison? .... ...Trump, however, would kick his ass! 7. Answer: : According to Snopes , fake news site the Baltimore Gazette was responsible for circulating a bogus Trump tax return on social media. 8. Answer: This headline is actually true. A Russian company has issued 45 silver coins bearing Trump’s portrait to mark his upcoming inauguration . 9. Answer: Trump has repeatedly denied he does not wear a wig, even inviting a woman to take a closer look at a rally in 2015 . A photoshopped image claiming to show Trump without a wig and make-up was circulated by satirical website Liberal Darkness, according to Snopes . 10. Answer: The Queen, of course, did not offer to restore British rule in the United States. The story originated from a satirical column written by Andy Borowitz in the New Yorker and was later shared as a fake article on Tumblr. eanwhile, a Trump waxwork has been unveiled at Madame Tussauds in London ahead of the inauguration, which is set to be hit by a series of protests . The incredible Obama-Biden 'bromance' memes are back

We are living in a post-truth, 'fake news' landscape, in which Donald Trump is about to become the President of the United States, but can you pick out the hoax headlines about the next commander-in-chief?

Facebook has promised to clamp down on 'fake news' websites after suggestions, denied by the social network, that it influenced the US election result.

Trump has even addressed the issue directly, calling the leaking of an alleged Russian dossier making lurid allegations against him 'fake news'.

He tweeted: