9 incredible things we learnt from the CIA's declassified documents - aliens, psychic powers and invisible ink recipes
9 incredible things we learnt from the CIA's declassified documents - aliens, psychic powers and invisible ink recipes
he CIA has just released around 13 million pages of declassified documents online spanning from the 1940s to the 1990s – Discussions about assassinating Fidel Castro, information on Nazi war criminals and Cold War surveillance are among the trove of documents released under the Freedom of Information Act after pressure from activists. mong the more unusual records include the CIA’s secret search for alien life, Uri Geller being 'recruited' by the agency and recipes for invisible ink. The searchable records have been made available online for the first time having previously been stored at the National Archives in Maryland. 1. Uri Geller passed a psychic test poonbender Uri Geller may have his sceptics, but the CIA were impressed by his psychic abilities after they tested his “clairvoyant” and “telepathic” abilities. The US intelligence agency concluded he was a ‘convincing paranormal’ after secret experiments in 1973 which involved him successfully replicating the random drawings of an agent in a separate room. “I did many things for the CIA,” Geller explained. “They wanted me to stand outside the Russian embassy in Mexico, and erase floppy discs being flown out by Russian agents.” 2. The Stargate Project he CIA was interested in the powers of Geller as part of the bizarre Stargate programme, a rather ambitious plan involving what the CIA called "remote viewing," and trying to recruit "psychic warriors". 3. The CIA’s secret hunt for alien life he CIA studied photographs of alleged sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOS). One report featured an “unusual phenomenon” spotted on the Iranian / USSR border in June 1966, which lasted for around five minutes. “We suddenly observed a brilliant white sphere approximating the colouration and intensity of [a] full bright moon,” the witness said. “The sphere appeared suddenly and at the first sighting was approximately three times the size of a full moon. “Toward the end of this period it became very faint and its enormous size seemed to fill the sky.” 4. The threat of UFOS nother report featured diagrams of what space craft from other worlds might look like and discussed if they were “a possible threat” to American security. Pictures also showed agents experimenting with saucer-like objects. “Since 1947, approximately 1,500 official reports of sightings have been received, of these about 20% are as yet unexplained,” one report says. 5. Recipes for invisible ink here were also recipes for making invisible ink published, and a report titled “How to open sealed letters”, showing how to get into people’s post without them knowing. “Make a silver print, fixed and bleached in mercury chloride,” the recipe says. “To make visible, dip in hypo.” The report adds: “Messages are printed on the human body with invisible ink. To destroy messages, the body should be scrubbed, and then washed with lime or lemon juice, to eradicate all markings.” 6. Fidel Castro he CIA was also interested in a conversation between American journalist Barbara Walters and Cuban revolutionary Fidel Castro in 1977. In the interview, Walters asks: “I sometimes feel that you feel everything, everything comes back to the CIA. When do you think -, or, do you have proof of the last CIA attack against you, the last plan, to perhaps assassinate you?” 7. See into the future? n 1980, it compiled a report into whether it was possible for clairvoyants to see in the future, or to use telekinesis to move objects. “The report on “remote perturbation” said: “In view of the obvious military value of being able to disturb sensitive enemy equipment, it is to the advantage of the Army to assess the validity of the claims.” 8. ‘Magician’ walks into laboratory nother document discusses a so-called magician from Tbilisi, Georgia, who was apparently healing people with his hands in 1969, NewsTalk reports. 9. The Berlin Tunnel project uring the Cold War, the CIA created a tunnel in Berlin to tap into the Soviet Army headquarters in the city. Work began the using a US Air Force radar site and a warehouse in West Berlin as cover for the construction. Construction took a year and the finished tunnel was 1,476 feet long. It ceased as an active operation in 1956, a report reveals. Could you survive an alien invasion? 8 ways to stay alive if disaster strikes

The CIA has just released around 13 million pages of declassified documents online spanning from the 1940s to the 1990s – so what have we learnt?

Discussions about assassinating Fidel Castro, information on Nazi war criminals and Cold War surveillance are among the trove of documents released under the Freedom of Information Act after pressure from activists.