House Speaker Ryan Hopes White House Will Be 'Tempering Agent' for Trump
Ryan Hopes White House Will Be 'Tempering Agent' for Trump
Shares               House Speaker Paul Ryan said he believes the White House will be a "tempering agent" for President-elect Donald Trump and get him to focus on work rather than picking fights on social media. "We're different people," Ryan said of him and Trump in a nearly 60-minute sit-down interview with Charlie Rose on Wednesday. "We constantly communicate and that ... has done a lot to build trust."  House Speaker Paul Ryan said he believes the Oval Office will be a "tempering agent" for president-elect Donald Trump and get him to focus on work rather than picking fights on social media.        When asked about the role of Russian hacking in the election, Ryan said he didn't think it had an influence on the outcome, adding that he believes it all came down to how the candidates connected with voters. “I just think what [Hillary Clinton] did not do is connect with people," he said. Ryan added that he believes that Trump knows Russia is a "malevolent" actor, describing the president-elect's approach as "transactional" and "carrot-stick diplomacy." "I think this is going to be an unconventional presidency," Ryan said. Ryan did little to clarify the details of Trump’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, but he said the funding for it would come directly from Obamacare. “Obamacare is built on a house of sand that is quickly collapsing, so we want to take those resources and direct it toward what we think is smarter replacement policy,” he said. Shares                  Ryan Hopes White House Will Be 'Tempering Agent' for Trump   The Note: The Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Comparing US to Putin's Russia Draws Bipartisan Backlash   Democrat: 'Everything Depends' on Gorsuch's Answers   GOP Sen. Sasse Doesn't 'Understand' Trump on Putin or 'So-Called Judges'   VP Pence Responds on Whether Administration Should Repair Obamacare Instead of Repeal and Replace   Mike Pence on LGBT Rights: Discrimination Has 'No Place' in Trump Administration   Mike Pence on Russia in Ukraine: 'We're Watching and Very Troubled'   VP Mike Pence Did Not Ask Supreme Court Nominee About Roe V. Wade   Pence Warns Iran to 'Think Twice' Before Testing Trump Administration   Tom Brady on Missing Super Bowl Jersey: If It Shows Up on eBay 'Let Me Know'   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win

House Speaker Paul Ryan said he believes the White House will be a "tempering agent" for President-elect Donald Trump and get him to focus on work rather than picking fights on social media.

"We're different people," Ryan said of him and Trump in a nearly 60-minute sit-down interview with Charlie Rose on Wednesday. "We constantly communicate and that ... has done a lot to build trust."

WHAT TO KNOW House Speaker Paul Ryan said he believes the Oval Office will be a "tempering agent" for president-elect Donald Trump and get him to focus on work rather than picking fights on social media.

During the interview, Ryan touched on everything from Trump’s plan to build a wall to Russia’s alleged interference in the presidential election.

When asked about the role of Russian hacking in the election, Ryan said he didn't think it had an influence on the outcome, adding that he believes it all came down to how the candidates connected with voters.

“I just think what [Hillary Clinton] did not do is connect with people," he said.

Ryan added that he believes that Trump knows Russia is a "malevolent" actor, describing the president-elect's approach as "transactional" and "carrot-stick diplomacy."

"I think this is going to be an unconventional presidency," Ryan said.

Ryan did little to clarify the details of Trump’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, but he said the funding for it would come directly from Obamacare.

“Obamacare is built on a house of sand that is quickly collapsing, so we want to take those resources and direct it toward what we think is smarter replacement policy,” he said.