Microsoft’s Scaring Windows 7 Users, Claims It’s Highly Insecure, But Don’t Worry
Microsoft’s Scaring Windows 7 Users, Claims It’s Highly Insecure, But Don’t Worry
Microsoft’s Scaring Windows 7 Users, Claims It’s Highly Insecure, But Don’t Worry

Do you use Microsoft’s Windows 7 operating system on your laptop or desktop? If you do, your system may be highly insecure and vulnerable to innovative cyberattacks that Windows 7 is fundamentally incapable of dealing with, according to Microsoft.

Microsoft’s Scaring Windows 7 Users, Claims It’s Highly Insecure

Microsoft just made the announcement on its German blog (which has since been taken down), warning Windows 7 users that the operating system is failing badly given the environment of online security threats circa 2017. Not only that, but Microsoft is also ending all official support, including updates and patches, for Windows 7 by 2020 -- eleven years after Windows 7 was initially released back in 2009.

The Redmond software giant’s painting a picture of utter doom and gloom for Windows 7. Markus Nitschke, head of Microsoft Germany had this to say about the situation, "Windows 7 is based on long-outdated security architectures," and that the OS "does not meet the requirements of modern technology, nor the high security requirements of IT departments."

Microsoft Windows 10 is the company's future vision of the OS and platform

What now for Windows 7 users? Does this mean you press the panic button and finally upgrade to Windows 10? Not so fast…

Nice try, Microsoft!

Microsoft may be over-exaggerating Windows 7’s problems after all, because it uses the same blog post to push Windows 7 users towards Windows 10 which the company claims is its most secure operating system till date. Ambitious sales tactic much?

2020 is still a long way away, and if you’re using a licensed, genuine copy of Windows 7, don’t worry, you’ll still be fine because Microsoft is obligated to provide the latest security patches and updates to Windows 7 to keep the almost decade old operating system in immaculate working condition. It’s not just consumers, but a lot of small and large scale businesses still use Windows 7, and don’t think they’ll shift to Windows 7 until their licenses run out in 2020.

Microsoft is scaring Windows 7 users unnecessarily and trying to force them to adopt Windows 10

Earlier this month, Microsoft had tried pushing users of old Windows operating systems towards Windows 10 claiming similar doomsday messaging -- use Windows 7 “at your own risk, at your own peril”. But hey, that’s the same as your mom nagging you to take care while crossing the road when you were little -- sure, crossing the road was (and still is) dangerous, but then you took precautions. Looked left and right, formed human chains with other school kids, etc. It’s something similar with Windows 7. As long as you install an antivirus software and keep it updated through periodically released software patches and updates, Windows 7 should be good to use till 2020.

What’s really unprofessional on Microsoft’s part is the use of scare-tactics it’s deploying to push users towards Windows 10 and drive its adoption. Why can’t it just remain patient and realise that Windows 7 users will eventually only ever upgrade to Windows 10, whenever the need arises, and that they don’t need to be pushed until 2020?

Oh well. We know Microsoft well enough, and have been tracking it since the days of Windows XP, to know that this isn’t the first time (nor will it be the last time) it’s tried to pull one of these sales stunts.

Also read: Cellular PC Era Starts As Windows 10 Will Run On New Mobile ARM Chips From 2017