Spike Lee Vows to Never Use Chrisette Michele's Music Over Inauguration Performance
Spike Lee Vows to Never Use Chrisette Michele's Music Over Inauguration Performance
If you're a performer that's anywhere on the list of entertainment for Donald Trump's inauguration , you're getting flamed online. Chrisette Michele is learning that lesson now; even her open letter regarding her performance is catching heat on the internets, and the situation has pissed off one of the greatest filmmakers of our time, Spike Lee. Lee took to Instagram (which he is wont to do when something is on his mind) to confirm that while he was planning on using Chrisette Michele's 2016 song "Black Girl Magic" for his upcoming Netflix original series (which is an adaptation of his 1986 film). Good Morning Folks. I Wuz Sorry To Read That "Sistuh Girl" Is Singin' At DT's Inauguration (And To Use His Fav Word-SAD). I Wuz Thinkin' 'bout Using Chrisette's Song- BLACK GIRL MAGIC In My Netflix Series SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT.... NOT ANYMORE. And Dat's Da Truth, Ruth. A photo posted by Spike Lee (@officialspikelee) on Jan 19, 2017 at 4:10am PST "I Wuz Sorry To Read," Spike wrote, "That "Sistuh Girl" Is Singin' At DT's Inauguration (And To Use His Fav Word-SAD). I Wuz Thinkin' 'bout Using Chrisette's Song- BLACK GIRL MAGIC In My Netflix Series SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT.... NOT ANYMORE. And Dat's Da Truth, Ruth." For those who aren't up on the last line, it's a line from his epic 1989 film . Maybe you need to channel Mister Señor Love Daddy to get your point across. While Michele hasn't clapped at anyone since penning her open letter, people like ?uestlove and Deray McKesson have been speaking out against Michele performing at the inauguration. I'd pay Chrisette to NOT perform 😔 . @ChrisetteM , singing at Trump's inauguration will not push Trump to suddenly value black people. He's chosen a stance of bigotry & racism. https://t.co/5RbxMSc26r Others are just having a field day going in on Chrisette. Chrisette Michele's reason for performing: pic.twitter.com/gsTu6eW81p Y’all pray for @ChrisetteM . Ain’t nothing wrong with her she just stupid as hell. @ChrisetteM why this font at 7am pic.twitter.com/kfmqZIZpvF . @ChrisetteM fixed it pic.twitter.com/qKE3VWKz9f Whatever the case may be, Chrisette seems to have burned a number of her fans and supporters with this move...and potential paydays.

If you're a performer that's anywhere on the list of entertainment for Donald Trump's inauguration, you're getting flamed online. Chrisette Michele is learning that lesson now; even her open letter regarding her performance is catching heat on the internets, and the situation has pissed off one of the greatest filmmakers of our time, Spike Lee.

Lee took to Instagram (which he is wont to do when something is on his mind) to confirm that while he was planning on using Chrisette Michele's 2016 song "Black Girl Magic" for his upcoming Netflix original series She's Gotta Have It (which is an adaptation of his 1986 film).

"I Wuz Sorry To Read," Spike wrote, "That "Sistuh Girl" Is Singin' At DT's Inauguration (And To Use His Fav Word-SAD). I Wuz Thinkin' 'bout Using Chrisette's Song- BLACK GIRL MAGIC In My Netflix Series SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT.... NOT ANYMORE. And Dat's Da Truth, Ruth."

For those who aren't up on the last line, it's a line from his epic 1989 film Do The Right Thing. Maybe you need to channel Mister Señor Love Daddy to get your point across.

While Michele hasn't clapped at anyone since penning her open letter, people like ?uestlove and Deray McKesson have been speaking out against Michele performing at the inauguration.

I'd pay Chrisette to NOT perform 😔 — Questlove Gomez (@questlove) January 18, 2017

.@ChrisetteM, singing at Trump's inauguration will not push Trump to suddenly value black people. He's chosen a stance of bigotry & racism. https://t.co/5RbxMSc26r — deray mckesson (@deray) January 19, 2017

Others are just having a field day going in on Chrisette.

Y’all pray for @ChrisetteM. Ain’t nothing wrong with her she just stupid as hell. — that stuff (@_cornbreads) January 19, 2017

Whatever the case may be, Chrisette seems to have burned a number of her fans and supporters with this move...and potential paydays.