Inside the Nazis' infamous Mauthausen concentration camps
Inside the Nazis' infamous Mauthausen concentration camps


This is the Nazi death camp where Hitler ordered the most 'incorrigible political enemies of the Reich' to be sent.

Prisoners at Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria were forced to climb 186 steps, while carrying 50-kilogram blocks of granite, 'without a second's rest' for 12 hours a day.

A collection of harrowing images from the German Federal Archive show prisoners undertaking back-breaking labour at the camp, which was built around a working quarry with the mission to work inmates to death.

The Nazis named the camp ‘the bone grinder’ and one of its most punishing features was the brutal steps, roughly carved into the cliff face of the quarry, called the ‘Stairs of Death’.

Exhausted prisoners would often collapse and topple back on those following them, creating a horrific domino effect.

Christian Bernadac, a French resistance fighter who was imprisoned at Mauthausen, and later wrote a book titled The 186 Steps, recalled how the steps ‘were simply cut with a pick into the clay and rock, held in place by logs, unequal in height and tread, and therefore extremely difficult, not only for climbing but also for the descent.

The photo (left) shows inmates carrying roughly-hewn blocks of stone – often weighing as much as 50 kilograms – up the 186 stairs known as The Stairs of Death. Pictured (right) is the same stairs today, 72 years after the camp was liberated. The stairs have been refitted and straightened so that tourists can easily climb up and down them

Prisoners are pictured during forced labour in the Wiener Graben quarry at the Mauthausen concentration camp

The crematorium oven at the Nazi death camp is pictured (left). When the inmates were totally exhausted after having worked in the quarries for 12 hours a day (right), or if they were too ill or too weak to work, they would be killed

The prisoners painstakingly carried the stone up the steps while dressed in their striped prison uniform and unsteady sandals.

‘Stones rolled under our wooden-soled sandals, and we were forced to keep moving at a very rapid pace,’ Mr Bernadac said.

‘The work consisted of carrying up a stone of considerable size and weight, along the 186 steps, after which there was still a considerable distance to cover. The man who chose a stone found to be too small was out of luck. And all of this went on at the rate of eight to ten trips per day. The pace was infernal, without a second's rest.’

Another survivor said a guard would ask prisoners if they wanted to rest for a minute on a ledge - but would execute anyone who accepted the offer.

Former inmate Aba Lewitt recalled the brutal practice as Austria marked the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Mauthausen in 2015.

He said: 'The guard said, "Well, then, sit over there" - then he shot him. He said the inmate tried to escape the camp. That happened umpteen times every day.'

Other prisons remembered how Hitler’s sadistic SS guards would often force prisoners to race up the stairs carrying the blocks of stone.

Those who survived the ordeal would then be placed in a line-up at the edge of the cliff, called ‘The Parachutists Wall’. The men were held at gun-point and given the impossible choice of choosing whether to be shot or to push the prisoner in front of him off the cliff.

Nazi SS officers climb the Stairs of Death in April 1941. One is pictured smoking as he makes his way to the concentration camp

Pictured (left) is a prisoner in ragged clothes who was beaten at the Stairs of Death at Mauthausen concentration camp. Pictured (right) are child prisoners who were locked up at the camp

Prisoners at forced labour in the Wiener Graben quarry. The Mauthausen concentration camp was built at the edge of the quarry so that prison labour could be used to take the granite for Hitler's grandiose building plans

A view of the Wiener Graben quarry and stone Stairs of Death is pictured. Prisoners would often be placed in a line-up at the edge of a cliff known as 'The Parachutists Wall'. At gun-point each prisoner would have the option of being shot or pushing the prisoner in front of him off the cliff

During a prisoner roll call they were forced to perform the Nazi salute. The prisoner nearest to the camera is pictured saluting with his left hand instead of extending his right arm. Only if physical disability prevented raising the right arm was it acceptable to raise the left

This horrific photo shows hundreds of new prisoners in the garage courtyard of the concentration camp in June 1941 after a Typhus outbreak. Prisoners were stripped naked and deloused. Outbreaks of typhus tend to occur in areas where there is close human contact and poor sanitation. The bacteria that cause typhus are carried by body lice, ticks, mites and fleas

Some prisoners, unable to bear the tortures of the camp, would willfully jump as part of a suicide pact.

Between 122,766 and 320,000 people died at Mauthausen, Austria's largest concentration camp, in the years between the first railway wagon of inmates arrived in 1938 and the camp’s liberation by American troops in 1945.

If prisoners survived their hard labour shifts in the quarry, the SS and Kapos found other ways to kill them.

Boston University history professor James Schmidt wrote in a 2005 paper that inmates were starved to death in bunkers, hung, thrown at electric barb wire fences and killed in mass shootings.

Some 3,000 inmates died of hypothermia after being forced to take and icy shower and then stay outside, while others were drowned in large barrels of water.

Mauthausen, situated about 20 kilometers east of the city of Linz in Upper Austria, had some of the most brutal detention conditions of the time.

It was classified Grade III and was a place where ‘incorrigible political enemies of the Reich’ were sent to be exterminated.

Today the Stairs of Death at Mauthausen concentration camp form part of the guided tours at the Mauthausen Memorial

A crematorium cold store and a hallway inside the prison block at the concentration camp are pictured

Austrian and German criminals, political prisoners, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Roma were first imprisoned in the camp but as time went on Jews, Poles, Spanish civil war refugees and Soviets were also among the tortured.

A platoon of 23 men from the 11th Armored Division of the US Third Army, led by Staff Sgt. Albert J. Kosiek, liberated the camp on May 5, 1945.

Louis Haefliger, the Red Cross representative, who led the US troops to the camp recalled the horrific scenes of the day in the book 'The 186 Steps'.

'The camp at Mauthausen was overcrowded, and the camps of Gusen I and II filled beyond human limits. There were as many as five sick men to a narrow camp bed.

'There were sixty thousand human beings - men, women and children... The Krematorium chimney smoked day and night. The sanitary conditions were at the lowest imaginable level. They were dying of hunger,' Mr Haefliger said.

Today, the ‘Stairs of Death’ form part of the guided tours at the Mauthausen Memorial. The stairs have been redone and straightened so that tourists can easily climb up and down them.

The Mauthausen quarry is now overgrown with trees and bushes and much of the camp site is also covered by residential areas built after the war.

The barrack 1 interior at Mauthausen concentration camp shows the bunk beds were prisoners slept

The crematorium autopsy room at Mauthausen concentration camp (left). A prisoner food parcel list (right) from 1943

These are just some of the prisoner tags found at a mass grave at the concentration camp. Identification of inmates in Nazi concentration camps was performed with identification numbers instead of names