PC Wins Her Second People's Choice Award, Deepika's Lungi Dance With James Corden & More From Ent
PC Wins People's Choice Award, Deepika's Lungi Dance With James Corden And More From Ent World
PC Wins Her Second People's Choice Award, Deepika's Lungi Dance With James Corden And More From Ent 1. Priyanka Chopra's Speech On Winning Her Second People's Choice Award For Quantico Is Beautiful And history just repeated itself! Priyanka Chopra has made India proud once again as she bagged her second People’s choice Awards 2017 for Favourite Dramatic TV Actress. PC attended the award show in Los Angeles, donning a gorgeous peach ensemble by Sally LaPointe. 2. After Vin Diesel, Deepika Padukone Teaches Host James Corden The 'Lungi Dance' On His Show After a kickass and absolutely entertaining stint at American chat show The Ellen DeGeneres show, DP also shot for The Late Late show with James Corden. Deepika appeared on the show with her co-star Vin Diesel, who kept on admiring her throughout the show. One of the key highlights of the show was the  ‘Lungi dance’ that she made James do. 3. 100 Days Are Left For 'Baahubali 2' And The Excited Fans Have Already Started The Countdown #Young #Rebel #Star #Prabhas #In #Baahubali #Mahishmathi #Royal #King #tfi #Tollywood #love #like #follow #us #on #insta #instagram #baahubali2 #i #1 A photo posted by Prabhas Followers (@prabhas__followers) on Jan 12, 2017 at 10:20pm PST   Baahubali 2 is all set to hit the theaters on April 28 and even though there are 100 days left for the release, fans have taken over Twitter and in no time #100DaysToBaahubali2 started trending. 4. This short film starring Gauahar Khan and Huma Qureshi Proves That Relationships Are complicated Only Because We Make Them So is a story about a woman who suddenly craves to meet an ex-boyfriend after eight long years of parting ways. Hesitant at first, she finally gives in to her desire to catch up with the guy, who is now a married man. Now, catching up with an ex is an awkward thing in itself but meeting his family, well the feeling cannot be expressed in mere words. 5. Mahira Khan Is Upset Because She's Unable To Promote Her Bollywood Debut Film 'Raees' In India In an interview, Mahira said, “Of course, I feel bad. When you put so much effort and hard work in a project, you wish to see the results." Mahira also spoke how Fawad Khan's role in ‘Ae Dil Hai Mushkil’ was reportedly cut short due to India-Pakistan tension. Mahira added, “I’m not privy to that but I am content with my part in the Rahul Dholakia directorial.”

1. Priyanka Chopra's Speech On Winning Her Second People's Choice Award For Quantico Is Beautiful

Twitter

And history just repeated itself! Priyanka Chopra has made India proud once again as she bagged her second People’s choice Awards 2017 for Favourite Dramatic TV Actress. PC attended the award show in Los Angeles, donning a gorgeous peach ensemble by Sally LaPointe.

2. After Vin Diesel, Deepika Padukone Teaches Host James Corden The 'Lungi Dance' On His Show

Twitter

After a kickass and absolutely entertaining stint at American chat show The Ellen DeGeneres show, DP also shot for The Late Late show with James Corden. Deepika appeared on the show with her co-star Vin Diesel, who kept on admiring her throughout the show. One of the key highlights of the show was the ‘Lungi dance’ that she made James do.

3. 100 Days Are Left For 'Baahubali 2' And The Excited Fans Have Already Started The Countdown

Baahubali 2 is all set to hit the theaters on April 28 and even though there are 100 days left for the release, fans have taken over Twitter and in no time #100DaysToBaahubali2 started trending.

4. This short film starring Gauahar Khan and Huma Qureshi Proves That Relationships Are complicated Only Because We Make Them So

YouTube Screengrab

Ek Dopahar’ is a story about a woman who suddenly craves to meet an ex-boyfriend after eight long years of parting ways. Hesitant at first, she finally gives in to her desire to catch up with the guy, who is now a married man. Now, catching up with an ex is an awkward thing in itself but meeting his family, well the feeling cannot be expressed in mere words.

5. Mahira Khan Is Upset Because She's Unable To Promote Her Bollywood Debut Film 'Raees' In India

Red Chillies

In an interview, Mahira said, “Of course, I feel bad. When you put so much effort and hard work in a project, you wish to see the results." Mahira also spoke how Fawad Khan's role in ‘Ae Dil Hai Mushkil’ was reportedly cut short due to India-Pakistan tension. Mahira added, “I’m not privy to that but I am content with my part in the Rahul Dholakia directorial.”