2017 NFL Mock Draft 1.0 Round 1
Kiper's 2017 NFL Mock Draft 1.0: Two QBs in top 10
Kiper's 2017 NFL Mock Draft 1.0: Two QBs in top 10 Sources: Green purposely tried to rile up Durant White forgot to keep ball from SB game winner Phil tweets shot at Carmelo, escalates feud Packers part ways with oft-injured RB Starks Sarkisian leaves Alabama to become Falcons OC Boy attacked at school gets invite from Rizzo True or false: College basketball's most important questions answered Nene steals and slams with authority #NBArank Rising Stars: Who made the top 50? Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Offseason predictions for every NFL team Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl 1 Related Predicting the Patriots' offseason: Will Garoppolo get traded? Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends Good luck, Pitt: Panthers have toughest 2017 non-con slate Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Contemplative Crosby at a crossroads Cassidy faces major challenge Who's your MVP for 2017? We've got one for every team Four-Ball: Taking stock of Tiger's comeback Joost a hero twice over in one extraordinary life Mel Kiper Jr. shares his expectations for where Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson could be drafted, and sees the Bills as a possibility. (0:36) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment The deadline for underclassmen to declare for the 2017 NFL draft has passed, and the field is set . That means it's time for Mock Draft 1.0. A few reminders: NFL teams are still early in their evaluations. No team has a draft board yet, and we still have to get through postseason all-star games, combine testing, medicals, pro days and individual workouts. There's a time until the draft, and we have to get through free agency before we truly know each team's needs. That's why several of these picks are based on who I think is the best player available. In some cases, I have identified a few needs that could be targeted. Any questions? Good. Off we go. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Insider

Mel Kiper Jr. shares his expectations for where Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson could be drafted, and sees the Bills as a possibility. (0:36)

Kiper sees Watson going in middle of the first round (0:36)

The deadline for underclassmen to declare for the 2017 NFL draft has passed, and the field is set. That means it's time for Mock Draft 1.0.

A few reminders:

NFL teams are still early in their evaluations. No team has a draft board yet, and we still have to get through postseason all-star games, combine testing, medicals, pro days and individual workouts.

There's a long time until the draft, and we have to get through free agency before we truly know each team's needs. That's why several of these picks are based on who I think is the best player available. In some cases, I have identified a few needs that could be targeted.

Any questions? Good. Off we go.

Note: One asterisk denotes a junior, and two asterisks denote a redshirt sophomore.