Tegan and Sara Launch Fight For Equality and Justice with Hollywood Event
Tegan and Sara Launch Fight For Equality and Justice with Hollywood Event
Tegan and Sara Launch Fight For Equality and Justice with Hollywood Event  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Tegan and Sara are moving full speed ahead on their mission to fight for justice and equality. On Wednesday (Jan. 18) the indie-pop duo brought over 50 LGBTQ women together in Hollywood to launch a coordinated effort for equality in “economic status, health and representation.” Tegan and Sara opened the event with a touching keynote, telling their own personal story of coming out and seeking equality. “Coming out at the age of 18 wasn't painless, it was 1998 after all but what was made clear by our entire family was that we deserved the same love, the saw laws, and the same respect as if we had been born heterosexual.” It was a day full of presentations, emotional speeches and plenty of information for how to get involved and join the fight to ensure fair legislation is passed and that the lane of communication stays open between citizens and those in power. Speakers included Governor Kate Brown and Vivek Shraya, Nina Chaubal and Greta Gustava, co-founders of TransLife. After the speeches and presentations, attendees began generating action plans.  Tegan and Sara have supported social change and progression for LGBTQ community throughout their career, the most recent example of their activism being the launch of The Tegan and Sara Foundation in December. The organization “works for economic justice, health, and representation for LGBTQ girls and women.” Find out more about The Tegan and Sara Foundation here .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Tegan and Sara pose with Clea Duvall after their welcome address in Los Angeles on Jan. 19, 2017.

Tegan and Sara are moving full speed ahead on their mission to fight for justice and equality.

On Wednesday (Jan. 18) the indie-pop duo brought over 50 LGBTQ women together in Hollywood to launch a coordinated effort for equality in “economic status, health and representation.”

Tegan and Sara opened the event with a touching keynote, telling their own personal story of coming out and seeking equality. “Coming out at the age of 18 wasn't painless, it was 1998 after all but what was made clear by our entire family was that we deserved the same love, the saw laws, and the same respect as if we had been born heterosexual.”

It was a day full of presentations, emotional speeches and plenty of information for how to get involved and join the fight to ensure fair legislation is passed and that the lane of communication stays open between citizens and those in power. Speakers included Governor Kate Brown and Vivek Shraya, Nina Chaubal and Greta Gustava, co-founders of TransLife. After the speeches and presentations, attendees began generating action plans.

Tegan and Sara have supported social change and progression for LGBTQ community throughout their career, the most recent example of their activism being the launch of The Tegan and Sara Foundation in December. The organization “works for economic justice, health, and representation for LGBTQ girls and women.”

Find out more about The Tegan and Sara Foundation here.