Champagne, Prosecco, and ... British Fizz? Why the new name for our bubbly is causing a stir
Champagne, Prosecco, and ... British Fizz? Why the new name for our bubbly is causing a stir
espite having been granted protected regional status in late 2016 , producers of English sparkling wine have been struggling to find a name for the drink as recognisable across the world as champagne or prosecco . But it appears winemakers may have found the answer they've been looking for – and the name might surprise you. When New York bar owner Jason Hicks begun using the term 'British Fizz' on his wine lists, he probably didn't realise that he was coining a product. But Bob and Sam Lindo, from the UK Vineyard Association , saw the menu and their organisation is now in the process of applying for protected geographical indication (PGI) status for the term, to ensure that only parkling winemakers with grapes grown in England, Wales, or Scotland will be able to use the name 'British Fizz' on their labels. ome worry the name could cause confusion among consumers, as many may mistake it for 'British wine' - a cheaper wine made from imported and reconstituted grape must. Bob Lindo, author of the PGI application, says the name isn't intended to replace English sparkling wine, as it is currently known: "This is a way for us to reclaim the 'British' category for people producing wines with English grown grapes. It isn't meant to be a catch-all name. "It's for people, like those living in the States, who maybe aren't aware of the differences between British wine and English sparkling wine, who just call everything 'British', and will find this category useful." am Lindo, chairman of the UKVA and a winemaker, added that the name is a way to protect the industry and uninformed consumers from producers importing grape juice concentrate to then market it as 'British wine', despite not being made with British grown grapes. Speaking to The Times, Lindo said: "The issue of what to call British wine was on the agenda of the first meeting of the vineyards association 50 years ago and has never been resolved. "No one's ever going to agree on the name so maybe we have to roll with the name that people are already using and protect that name before we lose it." However, while Lindo says there is wide support among fellow winemakers, not everyone is convinced by the name. @pauljnorbury I agree. Awful name and lack of imagination! @LanghamWinery  @teamdb Utterly laughable.A sure fire way to cheapen the value of a product that is and should be about quality and class. #britishfizz  #mustdobetter UK Vineyard Assoc. applies for PGI status for "British Fizz". @RealKenBruce nails it: "This the best we could do? 'Plonk' not available?!" British Fizz? They can do better, surely! https://t.co/SBT3g4kGV9 ine columnist and expert Victoria Moore said: "It's quite surprising as producers have spent years and years correcting people who refer to "British wine", which legally means something quite different – wine made from reconstituted grape must which may have been imported, quite horrible. "I'm not sure I like the term British fizz as it sounds a bit cheap. English Sparkling Wine is the term currently used, and although it's longer I think that sounds much classier." Wine writer Susy Atkins said: "I've heard of a few 'trendy' names being passed around such as 'Brit Pop' but I think it is too early to be looking for a name. "English sparkling wine is the brand and, as it's still early days, I want to see more development of the style before we start to think about trendy names for it."

Despite having been granted protected regional status in late 2016, producers of English sparkling wine have been struggling to find a name for the drink as recognisable across the world as champagne or prosecco.

But it appears winemakers may have found the answer they've been looking for – and the name might surprise you.

When New York bar owner Jason Hicks begun using the term 'British Fizz' on his wine lists, he probably didn't realise that he was coining a product. But Bob and Sam Lindo, from the UK Vineyard Association, saw the menu and their organisation is now in the process of applying for protected geographical indication (PGI) status for the term, to ensure that only parkling winemakers with grapes grown in England, Wales, or Scotland will be able to use the name 'British Fizz' on their labels.