Brexit jitters mean less junk mail (and less money for the Royal Mail)

Royal Mail’s share price has fallen after uncertainty over the UK’s future relationship with the European Union curbed the amount of junk mail and business letters being sent. While group revenues were flat for the nine months to 25 December, the postal service said correspondence in the business world had slowed. “We are seeing the impact of overall business uncertainty in the UK on letter volumes, in particular advertising and business letters,” the company said in a statement which sent its shares down by more than 5%. Royal Mail warned in November that it had experienced a drop-off in marketing business – better known as junk mail – both before and after the EU referendum , as firms reined in spending. While it did not directly reference Brexit in its latest update, sources familiar with the postal service’s fortunes said advertising and corporate correspondence are being choked off by corporate jitters over the UK’s future EU relationship. It said this uncertainty was responsible for a 2% fall in revenue at UKPIL, the parcels, letters and marketing business which provides the lion’s share of Royal Mail’s income. “This impacted UKPIL revenue despite a solid performance from UK parcels against a highly competitive backdrop,” the firm said. Royal Mail also took a £10m hit on the weakened value of sterling, which is down around 18% since the vote to leave the EU. Althought the weakness of the pound boosted its export income by £20m in the nine-month period it was more than wiped out by a £30m increase in terminal dues – fees paid by the Royal Mail to foreign postal services for processing letters sent from the UK. Overall revenues were flat, as increased parcels business – up 2% in volume and 3% in revenue – offset the decline in letters. Royal Mail noted that growth was fed in particular by the consumer parcels sector, which has been boosted by online shoppers ordering products for home delivery. Although the Royal Mail’s shares fell 5% on the trading update, its shares are still nearly a pound higher than the £3.30 price set by the government when it kicked off the privatisation of the postal service via a stock market float in 2013. The government was widely criticised for setting the price too low and allowing City of London investors to grab cheap stock, curbing the amount raised for the Exchequer. Since it was privatised, the Royal Mail has also announced cuts to workers’ “simply unaffordable” pensions . The company pays around £400m a year into its “defined benefit” scheme, which guarantees a pension based on a postal worker’s average salary over his or her lifetime, rather than what happens on the stock market. But the company said financial market conditions had deteriorated so much that the cost of keeping the plan fully open would balloon to £900m over the next few years. Although the cuts were first mooted just before the EU referendum, historic lows in bond markets following the vote have made the pensions even less affordable to companies. The Communication Workers Union, which represents most of Royal Mail’s workforce, has pledged to defend its members pension rights. Topics  Royal Mail   EU referendum and Brexit   Sterling

Royal Mail’s share price has fallen after uncertainty over the UK’s future relationship with the European Union curbed the amount of junk mail and business letters being sent.

While group revenues were flat for the nine months to 25 December, the postal service said correspondence in the business world had slowed.

“We are seeing the impact of overall business uncertainty in the UK on letter volumes, in particular advertising and business letters,” the company said in a statement which sent its shares down by more than 5%.

Royal Mail warned in November that it had experienced a drop-off in marketing business – better known as junk mail – both before and after the EU referendum, as firms reined in spending.

Royal Mail says Brexit uncertainty causing dip in junk mail sent by post Read more

While it did not directly reference Brexit in its latest update, sources familiar with the postal service’s fortunes said advertising and corporate correspondence are being choked off by corporate jitters over the UK’s future EU relationship.

It said this uncertainty was responsible for a 2% fall in revenue at UKPIL, the parcels, letters and marketing business which provides the lion’s share of Royal Mail’s income.

“This impacted UKPIL revenue despite a solid performance from UK parcels against a highly competitive backdrop,” the firm said.

Royal Mail also took a £10m hit on the weakened value of sterling, which is down around 18% since the vote to leave the EU.

Althought the weakness of the pound boosted its export income by £20m in the nine-month period it was more than wiped out by a £30m increase in terminal dues – fees paid by the Royal Mail to foreign postal services for processing letters sent from the UK.

Overall revenues were flat, as increased parcels business – up 2% in volume and 3% in revenue – offset the decline in letters. Royal Mail noted that growth was fed in particular by the consumer parcels sector, which has been boosted by online shoppers ordering products for home delivery.

Although the Royal Mail’s shares fell 5% on the trading update, its shares are still nearly a pound higher than the £3.30 price set by the government when it kicked off the privatisation of the postal service via a stock market float in 2013.

The government was widely criticised for setting the price too low and allowing City of London investors to grab cheap stock, curbing the amount raised for the Exchequer.

Since it was privatised, the Royal Mail has also announced cuts to workers’ “simply unaffordable” pensions.

The company pays around £400m a year into its “defined benefit” scheme, which guarantees a pension based on a postal worker’s average salary over his or her lifetime, rather than what happens on the stock market.

But the company said financial market conditions had deteriorated so much that the cost of keeping the plan fully open would balloon to £900m over the next few years.

Although the cuts were first mooted just before the EU referendum, historic lows in bond markets following the vote have made the pensions even less affordable to companies.

The Communication Workers Union, which represents most of Royal Mail’s workforce, has pledged to defend its members pension rights.