Taliban bomb expert accidently kills himself and four sons
Taliban bomb expert accidently kills himself and four sons


An expert Taliban bomb maker accidentally killed himself and his four sons in while building a cache of roadside bombs in northern Afghanistan

Kamal Khan, a Taliban commander in the northern part of the Sar-i-Pul province of Afghanistan, died overnight while making explosive devices in his home.

Zabiullah Amani, spokesman for the provincial governor said Khan was believed to be the Taliban's best maker of roadside bombs in the region.

Khan is believed to have been responsible for roadside bombs, like this one in November which exploded outside the German consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif, northern Afghanistan

These bombs have been frequently and effectively used for years against both government security forces and international troops in Afghanistan.

While the Taliban's heartland is in southern Afghanistan, they have become increasingly active and dangerous in northern Afghanistan as well.

Afghan civilians are paying a heavy price for the escalating conflict across the country.

A total of 2,562 civilians were killed and another 5,835 wounded in the first nine months of 2016, according to a UN report.

Last week more than 50 people were killed in multiple Taliban bombings across Afghanistan. The bombs frequently hit civilians, including children STOCK PHOTO

Last week, over 50 people, mostly civilians, were killed in multiple Taliban bombings across Afghanistan.

At least seven civilians, including a women and three children, were killed when their truck hit a roadside bomb in eastern Afghanistan on Sunday, officials said.

The villagers were travelling from Pacheer Agam district to a nearby village in Nangarhar province, Hijratullah Rahmani district governor of Pacheer Agam told AFP.

'Unfortunately, in the blast, seven civilians, including a woman and three children were killed and one wounded,' he said.

No one claimed responsibility, but the interior ministry in a statement blamed 'enemies of peace and stability,' a term Afghan officials use to refer to Taliban.



