Chinese man broadcast himself butchering a puppy
Chinese man broadcast himself butchering a puppy as revenge


A man has caused outrage after live-streaming himself dissecting a puppy.

One day before his live dissection on January 17, he had posted pictures showing him trying to strangle the tiny canine on Chinese social media.

The man said he was seeking revenge on a group of animal lovers who had caused a traffic jam on November 19 last year while rescuing dogs; and the traffic jam had cost him the chance of seeing a dying relative for the last time, reported Peoples' Daily Online.

Merciless: The puppy was tied up before being dissected by the Chinese man on January 17

Horrifying: The man then posted the video on his account with a post saying 'finally it's here'

The man posted the pictures and a live video on his account on Weibo, a Chinese micro-blogging website, under the account 'I have a puppy here'.

The account has been taken down by the man, who remains unidentified.

The man first posted a picture of two puppies on his account.

In the post, he claimed that the puppies were brothers and that 'one is going to put on a show while the other will be sent to a pet shop'.

On January 16, the man released a set of four pictures, showing one of the puppies being strangled by a rope.

One day later, a live video was posted onto Weibo under his account, showing him butchering the puppy.

The puppy's limbs were tightly tied onto a rubber mat. Its mouth was wrapped in bandages.

The man then cut open the puppy's body using a scalpel. The pet cried in pain.

At one point of the video, the puppy's rib cage, intestines and other internal organs were exposed.

The man tied a rope around the puppy's head on January 16 and he wrote 'it's not gonna be hanged because it has more to suffer than hanging.'

Soon after, the video was taken down by the management of Weibo. But he re-uploaded it a few more times.

The man claimed that he had treated the dissection in a 'seriously scientific manner'.

Web users quickly condemned the man's cruel behaviour, calling him 'monstrous' and 'inhumane'.

One angry web user commented: 'A dog's life is a life too, just like human's! It's illegal to do so.'

In response to the outcry, the man said he had missed the chance to see his dying relative because of a group of people who were rescuing dogs on the road.

The man said: 'If there hadn't been a group of animal lovers blocking the highway and causing traffic jam, I could be on my way to Beijing to see my dying relative.'

The man said he had arrived half an hour late at the hospital, narrowly missing the chance to see the family member.

He said animal lovers were to blame.

However, his explanation sparked further criticism from the internet as one web user said: 'This man has psychological problems.

'Though what the animal lovers did on the highway was wrong, what you've done did not help bringing your relative back!'

In a conversation with a web user (pictured), the man said animal lovers who had blocked a highway were the cause of his revenge act

In another conversation (pictured), he said because of the animal lovers he had not been able to see his dying relative for the last time

Chinese lawyers told Peoples' Daily Online that there are no any laws and regulations to ban people from live-streaming dissections on animals as long as the uploaders claim the video is broadcast for research or medical purposes.

However if the live video causes public unrest, there might be a violation of the Chinese civil law.

The lawyers added that it could be difficult to file a case based on situations like this in China.

Elisa Allen, Director of PETA UK, urged the Chinese authorities to identify this 'highly unstable, violent, and dangerous man'.

Ms Allen said: 'By mercilessly killing a vulnerable puppy as a result of his uncontrolled anger, he has shown that he poses a real danger to others.'

She urged anyone who recognises anything in the video to contact authorities immediately.