Here's The BS Reason Kanye Wasn't Invited To Perform At Trump's Inauguration
Here's The BS Reason Kanye Wasn't Invited To Perform At Trump's Inauguration
Despite Kanye West 's baffling meeting at Trump Tower in December, the chair of the former host's Presidential Inaugural Committee has revealed he was never asked to perform at the inauguration festivities. Longtime Trump BFF Tom Barrack, speaking with , suggested West and his work weren't "typically and traditionally American" enough to warrant an appearance. "We haven't asked him," Barrack told  's Erin Burnett. "He considers himself a friend of the President-elect, but it's not the venue. The venue we have for entertainment is filled out, it's perfect, it's going to be typically and traditionally American, and Kanye is a great guy but we just haven't asked him to perform. We move on with our agenda." Of course, as many quickly noted when Barrack's explainer hit Twitter, there is arguably more American than hip hop: Hip hop was invented in America and Kanye is from the Midwest. Sounds typically American to me. https://t.co/keCe7wZUHA There is nothing more American than hip hop. It is, to use the word literally, literally American. https://t.co/xutIk7aBRX via @Esquire So apparently @kanyewest is not "traditionally american" enough; or in other words 🗣 THEY DON'T FUCK WITH YOUR KIND pic.twitter.com/8nvPj1jn9z cc: @kanyewest you care to interpret this? https://t.co/QCEK4SxZAA West, who told a Saint Pablo audience in November he "would have voted for Trump" just days before being hospitalized, confounded fans and pundits alike with his heavily publicized Trump Tower meeting last month. According to  , West met with Trump to discuss the possibility of becoming an "ambassador of sorts." West, however, has not publicly clarified the nature of the meeting other than sharing a series of semi-vague tweets and a photo of his signed copy of magazine: I wanted to meet with Trump today to discuss multicultural issues. These issues included bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago. I feel it is important to have a direct line of communication with our future President if we truly want change. #2024 pic.twitter.com/tNMBk0sZJw But, um, I think 6 Doors Up or some shit is performing?

Despite Kanye West's baffling meeting at Trump Tower in December, the chair of the former Apprentice host's Presidential Inaugural Committee has revealed he was never asked to perform at the inauguration festivities. Longtime Trump BFF Tom Barrack, speaking with CNN, suggested West and his work weren't "typically and traditionally American" enough to warrant an appearance.

"We haven't asked him," Barrack told OutFront's Erin Burnett. "He considers himself a friend of the President-elect, but it's not the venue. The venue we have for entertainment is filled out, it's perfect, it's going to be typically and traditionally American, and Kanye is a great guy but we just haven't asked him to perform. We move on with our agenda."

Of course, as many quickly noted when Barrack's explainer hit Twitter, there is arguably nothing more American than hip hop:

Hip hop was invented in America and Kanye is from the Midwest. Sounds typically American to me. https://t.co/keCe7wZUHA — 💀Maggie Serota 💀 (@maggieserota) January 19, 2017

There is nothing more American than hip hop. It is, to use the word literally, literally American. https://t.co/xutIk7aBRX via @Esquire — Luke O'Neil (@lukeoneil47) January 19, 2017

So apparently @kanyewest is not "traditionally american" enough; or in other words 🗣 THEY DON'T FUCK WITH YOUR KIND pic.twitter.com/8nvPj1jn9z — اليعاقبة السود🎥 (@TheReelAnderson) January 19, 2017

West, who told a Saint Pablo audience in November he "would have voted for Trump" just days before being hospitalized, confounded fans and pundits alike with his heavily publicized Trump Tower meeting last month. According to E! News, West met with Trump to discuss the possibility of becoming an "ambassador of sorts." West, however, has not publicly clarified the nature of the meeting other than sharing a series of semi-vague tweets and a photo of his signed copy of TIME magazine:

I wanted to meet with Trump today to discuss multicultural issues. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) December 13, 2016

These issues included bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) December 13, 2016

I feel it is important to have a direct line of communication with our future President if we truly want change. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) December 13, 2016

#2024 — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) December 13, 2016

But, um, I think 6 Doors Up or some shit is performing?