Donald Trump arrives in Washington DC ahead of inauguration



Donald Trump arrives in Washington DC ahead of inauguration

Updated

US President-elect Donald Trump has swept into Washington on a military jet and quickly set to building better ties to the Republican Congress as he kicked off three days of inaugural festivities.

Washington braced for an onslaught of crowds and demonstrators — with all the attendant hoopla and hand-wringing.

Mr Trump was quickly taking on more of the trappings of the presidency, giving a salute to the Air Force officer who welcomed him as he stepped off the jet with wife Melania at Joint Base Andrews just outside Washington.

His first stop was a luncheon in a ballroom at his own hotel, where he gave a shout-out to GOP congressional leaders, declaring: "I just want to let the world know we're doing very well together".

House Speaker Paul Ryan, he said, will finally have someone to sign legislation into law.

Then Mr Trump veered into the territory of the unknowable to boast his Cabinet selections had "by far the highest IQ of any Cabinet ever".

Just blocks away, the White House was quickly emptying out.

President Barack Obama's schedule was clear beyond his daily briefing and his final weekly lunch with Vice President Joe Biden.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, in a tweet, called Inauguration Eve "a momentous day before a historic day", as security barricades and blockades went up around Washington in preparation for the swearing-in ceremony.

"We are all ready to go to work," Mr Pence said at a morning news conference.

"In fact, we can't wait to get to work for the American people to make it great again."

Trump kicks off schedule with wreath-laying

Mr Trump's public schedule for the inaugural celebration started with an afternoon wreath-laying at Arlington National Cemetery, where he was joined by Vice President-elect Mike Pence.

The pair silently placed a wreath in front of the Tomb of the Unknowns — a monument dedicated to service members whose remains were never identified.

After placing the wreath, the two men put their hands on their hearts as solemn music played.

Next up was a welcome concert on the steps of Lincoln Memorial ending with fireworks.

The two-hour concert, open to the public, featured country star Toby Keith, soul singer Sam Moore, actor Jon Voight and The Piano Guys.

It did not include singer Jennifer Holliday, originally announced as one of the headliners. She backed out after an outcry from Trump critics.

Before departing for Washington, Mr Trump announced his final Cabinet choice: former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue for agriculture secretary.

Spokesman Sean Spicer said the President-elect was continuing to make "edits and additions" to the inaugural address he will deliver at the swearing-in.

Trump transfers from personal jet to USAF plane

Never mind about Mr Trump's gilded private plane: He arrived on a Boeing 757 that is part of the fleet of military planes that become Air Force One whenever the president is aboard.

The President-elect, who flew to Washington without any press on his plane, was joined on the trip by a gaggle of his children, grandchildren and other members of his extended family.

At the luncheon, Mr Trump invited his future first lady to speak, and Mrs Trump told the crowd, "Tomorrow we're starting the work," adding that "there's "a lot of possibility and a lot to take care of".

Mr Trump made sure to work in a plug for his hotel, saying, "This is a gorgeous room. A total genius must have built this place".

Reporters covering Mr Trump's remark were removed from the room before the President-elect finished speaking.





Topics: world-politics, us-elections, united-states

First posted