Dem Rep Cleaver: ‘I’ve Been Getting All Kinds of Hate Phone Calls’ for Deciding To Attend Inauguration
Dem Rep Cleaver: 'I've Been Getting All Kinds of Hate Phone Calls' for Deciding To Attend Inauguration - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On Thursday’s broadcast of the Fox News Channel’s “Your World with Neil Cavuto,” Representative Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) stated that his decision to attend President-Elect Donald Trump’s inauguration has resulted in him “getting all kinds of hate phone calls.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Cleaver said, while discussing Guantanamo Bay,”I mean, we can’t just declare this side is evil and wrong and this side is right and royal. I mean, we’ve got to get to a point where we start working with each other. That’s one of the reasons I’m coming to the inauguration. Look, I’ve been getting all kinds of hate phone calls. They started about three days ago. People calling me names.” He added that the calls are “people telling me that I have no business going to the inauguration, that Donald Trump is going to do damage to this country.” Cleaver did say there is “a lot of anxiety” about Trump, but people are angry at him just because he intends to show up to the inauguration. He concluded, “[N[obody voted for me wondering whether or not I believe that I needed to be civil, or that the dialogue needs to change in Washington. And so my words, I hope, will always match my actions, or the reverse.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On Thursday’s broadcast of the Fox News Channel’s “Your World with Neil Cavuto,” Representative Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) stated that his decision to attend President-Elect Donald Trump’s inauguration has resulted in him “getting all kinds of hate phone calls.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Cleaver said, while discussing Guantanamo Bay,”I mean, we can’t just declare this side is evil and wrong and this side is right and royal. I mean, we’ve got to get to a point where we start working with each other. That’s one of the reasons I’m coming to the inauguration. Look, I’ve been getting all kinds of hate phone calls. They started about three days ago. People calling me names.”

He added that the calls are “people telling me that I have no business going to the inauguration, that Donald Trump is going to do damage to this country.”

Cleaver did say there is “a lot of anxiety” about Trump, but people are angry at him just because he intends to show up to the inauguration.

He concluded, “[N[obody voted for me wondering whether or not I believe that I needed to be civil, or that the dialogue needs to change in Washington. And so my words, I hope, will always match my actions, or the reverse.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett