Miguel Ferrer, “NCIS: Los Angeles” star, is dead at 61
Miguel Ferrer, “NCIS: Los Angeles” star, is dead at 61
Miguel Ferrer attends the 141st Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs on May 2, 2015 in Louisville, Kentucky.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Noted character actor Miguel Ferrer, star of “Crossing Jordan,” “Twin Peaks” and “NCIS: Los Angeles,” has died following a battle with cancer. He was 61. Born in Santa Monica, California, Ferrer began his career working on numerous television shows in the 1980s, with guest appearances on the likes of “CHiPs,” “Cagney & Lacey” and “Magnum P.I.” In 1990, he debuted as FBI agent Albert Rosenfeld on David Lynch’s “Twin Peaks.” Ferrer reprised that role on Showtime’s upcoming “Twin Peaks” revival, which debuts later this year. His death was first reported by Deadline . In 2001, he starred opposite Jill Hennessy on “Crossing Jordan,” which ran for six years. And in 2012 he joined the cast of “NCIS: Los Angeles” opposite LL Cool J and Chris O’Donnell. Ferrer’s numerous film gigs included “RoboCop,” “Blank Check,” Hot Shots! Part Deux” and “Iron Man 3.” He is survived by his wife and two sons. “Today, ‘NCIS: Los Angeles’ lost a beloved family member,” showrunner R. Scott Gemmill said in a statement. “Miguel was a man of tremendous talent who had a powerful dramatic presence on screen, a wicked sense of humor, and a huge heart. Our thoughts go out to his wife Lori, his sons, and his entire family. He will be greatly missed.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Ned Ehrbar is an entertainment producer for CBS News.

Noted character actor Miguel Ferrer, star of “Crossing Jordan,” “Twin Peaks” and “NCIS: Los Angeles,” has died following a battle with cancer. He was 61.

Born in Santa Monica, California, Ferrer began his career working on numerous television shows in the 1980s, with guest appearances on the likes of “CHiPs,” “Cagney & Lacey” and “Magnum P.I.” In 1990, he debuted as FBI agent Albert Rosenfeld on David Lynch’s “Twin Peaks.”

Ferrer reprised that role on Showtime’s upcoming “Twin Peaks” revival, which debuts later this year. His death was first reported by Deadline.

In 2001, he starred opposite Jill Hennessy on “Crossing Jordan,” which ran for six years. And in 2012 he joined the cast of “NCIS: Los Angeles” opposite LL Cool J and Chris O’Donnell.

Ferrer’s numerous film gigs included “RoboCop,” “Blank Check,” Hot Shots! Part Deux” and “Iron Man 3.” He is survived by his wife and two sons.

“Today, ‘NCIS: Los Angeles’ lost a beloved family member,” showrunner R. Scott Gemmill said in a statement. “Miguel was a man of tremendous talent who had a powerful dramatic presence on screen, a wicked sense of humor, and a huge heart. Our thoughts go out to his wife Lori, his sons, and his entire family. He will be greatly missed.”