Praying at the inaugural service: An imam, a rabbi, a Hindu priest and an abundance of pastors

The morning after he becomes president of the United States, Donald Trump will hear prayers at Washington National Cathedral from more than two-dozen spiritual leaders of a wide variety of faiths. The National Prayer Service, an inauguration tradition that has come to include clergy from many religions, will this year feature representatives of the Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, Sikh, Baha’i, Navajo, Mormon, Greek Orthodox and many other faiths. Some of the clergy, all of whom were announced as participants on Thursday, supported Trump during his campaign for president, such as prosperity gospel preachers Bishop Harry Jackson of Maryland and the Rev. Darrell Scott of Ohio.   Several come from the Washington area, including Priest Narayanachar L. Dialakote from the Sri Siva Vishnu Temple in Lanham, Imam Mohamed Magid from the All Dulles Area Muslim Society Center in Sterling, and Jesse Singh, the chair of the Sikh Associations of Baltimore. Others come from churches across the country. Christian denominations represented at the jam-packed prayer service include the Catholic Church, the Greek Orthodox Church, evangelical churches and several leaders of the Episcopal Church, which hosts the inaugural service every four years in its seat, Washington National Cathedral. Relatives of two of the most influential American religious leaders in history will participate: Alveda King, who is a niece of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and an antiabortion activist, and Cissie Graham Lynch, a granddaughter of evangelist Billy Graham.   Not everyone asked to participate in the service this year said yes — one rabbi wrote in The Post this week about declining the invitation because of his opposition to Trump’s values. The service will include two Jewish clergy: Cantor Mikhail Manevich from the Washington Hebrew Congregation, a neighbor of Washington National Cathedral, and Rabbi Fred Raskind from Temple Bet Yam in St. Augustine, Fla. The cantor and the imam’s role in the service will be the call to prayer, which they will lead along with the Rev. Canon Rosemarie Duncan from the cathedral. The rabbi, three pastors and Sajid Tarar , a Muslim man from Baltimore who prayed for Trump onstage at the Republican National Convention, will read biblical passages. Others will read prayers for peace, the nation, those who govern and those who serve. There will not be a sermon. Here’s the complete list of participants provided by the Presidential Inaugural Committee:

The morning after he becomes president of the United States, Donald Trump will hear prayers at Washington National Cathedral from more than two-dozen spiritual leaders of a wide variety of faiths.

The National Prayer Service, an inauguration tradition that has come to include clergy from many religions, will this year feature representatives of the Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, Sikh, Baha’i, Navajo, Mormon, Greek Orthodox and many other faiths.

Some of the clergy, all of whom were announced as participants on Thursday, supported Trump during his campaign for president, such as prosperity gospel preachers Bishop Harry Jackson of Maryland and the Rev. Darrell Scott of Ohio.

[Paula White, prosperity preacher once investigated by the Senate, is a controversial pick for inauguration prayer]

Several come from the Washington area, including Priest Narayanachar L. Dialakote from the Sri Siva Vishnu Temple in Lanham, Imam Mohamed Magid from the All Dulles Area Muslim Society Center in Sterling, and Jesse Singh, the chair of the Sikh Associations of Baltimore.

Others come from churches across the country. Christian denominations represented at the jam-packed prayer service include the Catholic Church, the Greek Orthodox Church, evangelical churches and several leaders of the Episcopal Church, which hosts the inaugural service every four years in its seat, Washington National Cathedral.

Relatives of two of the most influential American religious leaders in history will participate: Alveda King, who is a niece of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and an antiabortion activist, and Cissie Graham Lynch, a granddaughter of evangelist Billy Graham.

[Who’s praying at the inauguration itself: Franklin Graham, Cardinal Dolan, and four more]

Not everyone asked to participate in the service this year said yes — one rabbi wrote in The Post this week about declining the invitation because of his opposition to Trump’s values. The service will include two Jewish clergy: Cantor Mikhail Manevich from the Washington Hebrew Congregation, a neighbor of Washington National Cathedral, and Rabbi Fred Raskind from Temple Bet Yam in St. Augustine, Fla.

The cantor and the imam’s role in the service will be the call to prayer, which they will lead along with the Rev. Canon Rosemarie Duncan from the cathedral. The rabbi, three pastors and Sajid Tarar, a Muslim man from Baltimore who prayed for Trump onstage at the Republican National Convention, will read biblical passages.

Others will read prayers for peace, the nation, those who govern and those who serve. There will not be a sermon.

Here’s the complete list of participants provided by the Presidential Inaugural Committee:

Hon. Carlyle Begay

Navajo Nation

Rt. Rev. Mariann Edgar Budde, Bishop of Washington

Episcopal Church

Rt. Rev. James B. Magness, Bishop Suffragan for Federal Ministries

Episcopal Church

Rev. Randall Marshall Hollerith, Dean, Washington National Cathedral

Episcopal Church

Cantor Mikhail Manevich

Washington Hebrew Congregation

Rabbi Fred Raskind

Temple Bet Yam, St. Augustine, Fla.

Alveda King

Pastoral Associate, Priests for Life, Atlanta, Ga.

Bishop Harry Jackson

Hope Christian Church, Beltsville, Md.

Priest Narayanachar L. Dialakote

Sri Siva Vishnu Temple, Lanham, Md.

Elder D. Todd Christofferson, Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Imam Mohamed Magid

All Dulles Area Muslim Society Center, Sterling, Va.

Sajid Tarar

Baltimore

Pastor Greg Laurie

Harvest Christian Fellowship, Riverside, Calif.

Jack Graham

Prestonwood Baptist Church, Plano, Tex.

His Eminence Geron Archbishop Demetrios of America

Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America

Rev. Canon Rosemarie Logan Duncan, Canon of Worship, Washington National Cathedral

Episcopal Church

David Jeremiah

Shadow Mountain Community Church, El Cajon, Calif.

Rev. Ronnie Floyd

Cross Church, Springdale, Ark.

David Swanson

First Presbyterian Church, Orlando

Jesse Singh

Chairman of the Board of Sikh Associations of Baltimore

Ian McIlraith

Soka Gakkai International — USA, Los Angeles

Anthony Vance

National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States

Cissie Graham Lynch

Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Charlotte, N.C.

Pastor Ramiro Pena

Christ the King Baptist Church, Waco, Tex.

Donald Cardinal Wuerl, Archbishop of Washington, D.C.

Roman Catholic Church

Rev. Darrell Scott

New Spirit Revival Center, Cleveland Heights, Ohio