Your Guide to Inauguration Day 2017
Your Guide to Inauguration Day 2017
Live: Inauguration Day 2017 The scene in Washington on Inauguration Day.      Donald J. Trump took the oath of office outside the Capitol on Friday to become the 45th president of the United States. There was plenty of pomp and a good deal of protest, too, as hundreds of thousands of people descended on Washington to mark the occasion. Here is a guide to the week’s festivities, demonstrations and much more. The Schedule The official inaugural festivities commenced Thursday afternoon and do not wrap up until Saturday morning. Below are some of the highlights; and here is an expanded schedule . American officials and other dignitaries gathered on the West Front of the Capitol for the official inauguration ceremony. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. administered the oath of office , and Mr. Trump delivered his inaugural address . Graphic Donald Trump’s Inaugural Speech, Annotated New York Times reporters analyze the 45th president’s comments. After reviewing the American armed forces, President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence led the inaugural parade from the Capitol down Pennsylvania Avenue, with thousands of military personnel representing each branch participating. Advertisement There will be two official inaugural balls on separate floors of the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, and the Armed Services Ball, which will be at the National Building Museum. Mr. Trump is expected to make remarks and take to the dance floor at all three. Advertisement The Washington National Cathedral will host the traditional prayer service for Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence to begin their terms in prayer and reflection. The service marks the end of the official inaugural schedule. Expected to be the week’s largest protest action, the march begins with a rally at the base of Capitol Hill. The schedule of speakers has not been announced, nor has the route the marchers will take when they begin moving at 1:15 p.m. How to Watch Coverage of Inauguration Day is being carried live by ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, PBS and Fox News. Many news sites will carry feeds of the festivities. We’d prefer you stay right here with nytimes.com . (See more below.) We have live video and real-time analysis from our political reporters. You can also follow our Inauguration Briefing to catch up on all the highlights. The New York Times mobile app will have you covered, and you can sign up for alerts on the important events. Twitter will also be streaming the inauguration live at inauguration.twitter.com . Follow The Times on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram and Snapchat (nytimes) for videos, photos and stories from the inauguration and protests. : Official tickets for the prime viewing areas have already been distributed, but inaugural spectators can watch the swearing-in ceremony from along the National Mall or set up along the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route. Be prepared for significant security and traffic delays. Here is more information on how to attend in person. K St NW New York Ave NW Limited vehicle access No vehicle access G St NW White House E St NW 19th St NW 21st St NW Archives Federal Triangle Parade Route Constitution Ave NW 3rd St SW Lincoln Memorial Washington Monument National Mall Capitol Potomac River Smithsonian Tidal Basin Virginia Ave SW D St SW Ticketed viewing areas Non-ticketed viewing areas 1/4 MILE Closed Metro stations K St NW Limited vehicle access No vehicle access 19th St NW White House E St NW Archives Federal Triangle Parade route Lincoln Memorial Washington Monument National Mall Capitol Smithsonian D St SW Closed Metro stations Ticketed viewing areas 1/2 MILE Non-ticketed viewing areas K St NW Limited vehicle access No vehicle access 19th St NW White House E St NW Archives Federal Triangle Parade route Lincoln Memorial Washington Monument National Mall Capitol Potomac River Smithsonian D St SW Closed Metro stations Ticketed viewing areas 1/2 MILE Non-ticketed viewing areas Parade route Capitol 1st St NW K St NW National Mall Archives D St SW E St NW Smithsonian No vehicle access Federal Triangle Washington Monument White House 19th St NW Limited vehicle access Lincoln Memorial Closed Metro stations Ticketed viewing areas N 1/2 MILE Non-ticketed viewing areas K St NW New York Ave NW Limited vehicle access No vehicle access G St NW White House E St NW 19th St NW 21st St NW Archives Federal Triangle Parade Route Constitution Ave NW 3rd St SW Lincoln Memorial Washington Monument National Mall Capitol Smithsonian Tidal Basin Virginia Ave SW D St SW Ticketed viewing areas Non-ticketed viewing areas 1/4 MILE Closed Metro stations  The Political Atmosphere As Mr. Trump takes office on Friday, he is less popular than any new president in modern American history, according to a series of surveys published in recent days. The numbers suggest that rather than unifying a divided electorate, his transition to power has continued the polarization from the campaign. Polls released on Tuesday by CNN and ORC and by The Washington Post and ABC News found that just 40 percent of Americans approved of the job Mr. Trump has been doing during the transition. Advertisement Mr. Trump’s aides say they have had that atmosphere in mind while planning the week’s festivities. More than 60 Democrats in the House of Representatives said they would not attend the ceremony — many of them citing Mr. Trump’s recent criticism of Representative John Lewis, a civil rights icon. The Security A well-armed security bubble has encircled much of downtown Washington, as almost 30,000 local, state and federal officials work to ensure that the transfer of power goes off without a hitch. The authorities began enforcing a soft and a hard perimeter in central Washington in the early hours of Friday morning, and other road closings around the region followed. Only local vehicles were allowed within the soft perimeter. No civilian vehicles could pass inside the hard perimeter, where federal security forces were screening anyone hoping to enter by foot. To assure security, many items , including backpacks and posters, are prohibited on the Capitol grounds, along the parade route and at the inaugural balls. The National Park Service decided on Thursday to allow small umbrellas onto the National Mall and parade route because of rain in the forecast. The Swearing-In The official swearing-in ceremony began on Friday on the West Front of the Capitol overlooking the Mall. Most of the nation’s dignitaries were on hand, including Mr. Trump’s presidential opponent, Hillary Clinton, and her husband, former President Bill Clinton. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Jackie Evancho, a 16-year-old singer best known from “America’s Got Talent,” performed the national anthem. And six religious leaders chosen by Mr. Trump offered blessings. As Chief Justice Roberts administered the oath of office, Mr. Trump rested his hand on two Bibles : his childhood Bible and the Lincoln Bible, which Mr. Obama also used. Advertisement Mr. Trump recited the 35 words mandated by the Constitution : “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.” He then delivered his inaugural address. The Parade After they officially review the armed services Friday afternoon, Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence will lead a parade on Pennsylvania Avenue from the Capitol to the White House. A tradition since Thomas Jefferson’s inauguration in 1801, the parade is one of the inauguration’s highlights and typically draws large crowds and TV viewers around the country. More than 8,000 people will march behind the president and vice president, according to the Presidential Inaugural Committee, including representatives of each branch of the American armed services, as well as high school, college and police bands that have volunteered to perform . This year’s parade is expected to be considerably shorter — about 90 minutes — than those celebrating Mr. Trump’s recent predecessors. It will also pass a certain conspicuous building that bears the name of the 45th president. The Inaugural Balls Come nightfall, many of the inaugural revelers will dress in their best evening wear to attend balls across the capital — including some to galvanize resistance to Mr. Trump. All in all, the night should be tamer than eight years ago, when the Obamas attended 10 official inaugural balls and supporters held scores of others. Mr. Trump will attend just three official balls himself. Two of those, “Liberty” and “Freedom,” will take place at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center and are available to supporters who donated to his inauguration or purchased tickets. The third, the “Salute to Our Armed Services Ball,” will be at the National Building Museum for active duty and reserve military members, wounded veterans, emergency medical workers and Medal of Honor recipients. Mr. Trump will deliver remarks at all three balls and, as is customary, he will oblige the attendees with a ceremonial first dance with his wife, Melania. The Protests Protesters are not unusual at an inauguration, but Mr. Trump’s is expected to attract many more than usual . Law enforcement officials said they were expecting 99 groups to carry out demonstrations of all sorts over the inaugural period, including 63 on Friday. The largest event by far will be the Women’s March on Washington , which is on Saturday and is expected to attract several hundred thousand people. Beginning with a rally at 10 a.m. at Independence Avenue and Third Street SW, near the Capitol, the march is intended to raise awareness about a variety of social issues . Here’s what you need to know . Other protests will be scattered throughout the city. Two of the largest are Inaugurate the Resistance and #DisruptJ20 . Complete Coverage From The Times The New York Times has dozens of reporters around Washington and across the country providing live, comprehensive coverage of Inauguration Day online, on social media and in print. Here are some of the highlights: Get on-the-ground reporting, photography and video from across Washington and around the country. Advertisement Join Times journalists for updates and analysis beginning at 10 a.m. Find an annotation of Mr. Trump’s inaugural address by our politics and policy reporters. Senators, family and former presidents: See who stood on the inaugural platform alongside Mr. Trump. Listen on Saturday to a special Inauguration episode of our political podcast. Step into the heart of Washington with 360-degree videos from around the capital and the National Mall. Flip through photographs of the official and nonofficial inaugural balls being held around Washington. Sign up for mobile news alerts about the day’s most significant moments at nytimes.com/mobile . Follow us on Twitter at @nytpolitics , on Instagram at @nytimes and on Snapchat at nytimes. Get updates and live interviews on Facebook at facebook.com/nytpolitics . A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2017, on Page A13 of the with the headline: Expect Pomp and a Good Deal of Protest, Too.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.             WHERE TO GO NOW

The Political Atmosphere

As Mr. Trump takes office on Friday, he is less popular than any new president in modern American history, according to a series of surveys published in recent days. The numbers suggest that rather than unifying a divided electorate, his transition to power has continued the polarization from the campaign.

Polls released on Tuesday by CNN and ORC and by The Washington Post and ABC News found that just 40 percent of Americans approved of the job Mr. Trump has been doing during the transition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump’s aides say they have had that atmosphere in mind while planning the week’s festivities.

More than 60 Democrats in the House of Representatives said they would not attend the ceremony — many of them citing Mr. Trump’s recent criticism of Representative John Lewis, a civil rights icon.

Photo

The Security

A well-armed security bubble has encircled much of downtown Washington, as almost 30,000 local, state and federal officials work to ensure that the transfer of power goes off without a hitch.

The authorities began enforcing a soft and a hard perimeter in central Washington in the early hours of Friday morning, and other road closings around the region followed. Only local vehicles were allowed within the soft perimeter. No civilian vehicles could pass inside the hard perimeter, where federal security forces were screening anyone hoping to enter by foot.

To assure security, many items, including backpacks and posters, are prohibited on the Capitol grounds, along the parade route and at the inaugural balls. The National Park Service decided on Thursday to allow small umbrellas onto the National Mall and parade route because of rain in the forecast.

The Swearing-In

The official swearing-in ceremony began on Friday on the West Front of the Capitol overlooking the Mall. Most of the nation’s dignitaries were on hand, including Mr. Trump’s presidential opponent, Hillary Clinton, and her husband, former President Bill Clinton.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Jackie Evancho, a 16-year-old singer best known from “America’s Got Talent,” performed the national anthem. And six religious leaders chosen by Mr. Trump offered blessings.

As Chief Justice Roberts administered the oath of office, Mr. Trump rested his hand on two Bibles: his childhood Bible and the Lincoln Bible, which Mr. Obama also used.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump recited the 35 words mandated by the Constitution:

“I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.”

He then delivered his inaugural address.

The Parade

After they officially review the armed services Friday afternoon, Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence will lead a parade on Pennsylvania Avenue from the Capitol to the White House. A tradition since Thomas Jefferson’s inauguration in 1801, the parade is one of the inauguration’s highlights and typically draws large crowds and TV viewers around the country.

More than 8,000 people will march behind the president and vice president, according to the Presidential Inaugural Committee, including representatives of each branch of the American armed services, as well as high school, college and police bands that have volunteered to perform. This year’s parade is expected to be considerably shorter — about 90 minutes — than those celebrating Mr. Trump’s recent predecessors. It will also pass a certain conspicuous building that bears the name of the 45th president.

The Inaugural Balls

Come nightfall, many of the inaugural revelers will dress in their best evening wear to attend balls across the capital — including some to galvanize resistance to Mr. Trump. All in all, the night should be tamer than eight years ago, when the Obamas attended 10 official inaugural balls and supporters held scores of others.

Mr. Trump will attend just three official balls himself. Two of those, “Liberty” and “Freedom,” will take place at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center and are available to supporters who donated to his inauguration or purchased tickets. The third, the “Salute to Our Armed Services Ball,” will be at the National Building Museum for active duty and reserve military members, wounded veterans, emergency medical workers and Medal of Honor recipients. Mr. Trump will deliver remarks at all three balls and, as is customary, he will oblige the attendees with a ceremonial first dance with his wife, Melania.

The Protests

Protesters are not unusual at an inauguration, but Mr. Trump’s is expected to attract many more than usual. Law enforcement officials said they were expecting 99 groups to carry out demonstrations of all sorts over the inaugural period, including 63 on Friday.

The largest event by far will be the Women’s March on Washington, which is on Saturday and is expected to attract several hundred thousand people. Beginning with a rally at 10 a.m. at Independence Avenue and Third Street SW, near the Capitol, the march is intended to raise awareness about a variety of social issues. Here’s what you need to know.

Other protests will be scattered throughout the city. Two of the largest are Inaugurate the Resistance and #DisruptJ20.

Complete Coverage From The Times

The New York Times has dozens of reporters around Washington and across the country providing live, comprehensive coverage of Inauguration Day online, on social media and in print. Here are some of the highlights:

LIVE COVERAGE Get on-the-ground reporting, photography and video from across Washington and around the country.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

LIVE CHAT Join Times journalists for updates and analysis beginning at 10 a.m.

THE INAUGURAL ADDRESS Find an annotation of Mr. Trump’s inaugural address by our politics and policy reporters.

WHO’S WHO Senators, family and former presidents: See who stood on the inaugural platform alongside Mr. Trump.

THE RUN-UP Listen on Saturday to a special Inauguration episode of our political podcast.

360 VIDEO Step into the heart of Washington with 360-degree videos from around the capital and the National Mall.

THE BALLS Flip through photographs of the official and nonofficial inaugural balls being held around Washington.

MOBILE ALERTS Sign up for mobile news alerts about the day’s most significant moments at nytimes.com/mobile.

SOCIAL MEDIA Follow us on Twitter at @nytpolitics, on Instagram at @nytimes and on Snapchat at nytimes. Get updates and live interviews on Facebook at facebook.com/nytpolitics.