'Screw Our President!': Anti-Trump Protests Erupt in DC

'Screw Our President!': Anti-Trump Protests Erupt in DC // // // // Just hours before President-elect Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States, anti-Trump protests have broken out in Washington, D.C. On "Tucker Carlson Tonight," Griff Jenkins reported from the nation's capital, where protesters gathered outside the National Press Club. Jenkins spoke to a young boy who participated in starting a fire. "Why'd you start that fire?" Jenkins asked. "Because I felt like it, and because I'm just saying, 'Screw our president!'" the boy said. Jenkins also spoke to Lacy MacAuley, a spokeswoman for DisruptJ20, which aims to cause a significant disruption during the inauguration festivities. "We have to really be concerned about this dangerous direction our country is going in," MacAuley said. "When you come for our communities, when you come for us, and when you try to violate our rights, we will resist." Riot police at DeploraBall protest at National Press Club. #disruptj20  pic.twitter.com/ltyWZeMoy5 — Hailey Branson-Potts (@haileybranson) January 20, 2017 Protests outside the #DeploraBall at Nat'l Press Club pic.twitter.com/wl0i5xZfaG — Greg Krieg (@GregJKrieg) January 20, 2017 Protestor affected by tear gas @WTOP  pic.twitter.com/Cae81JaMAF — Michelle Basch (@mbaschWTOP) January 20, 2017 #DisruptJ20 protester lifts fire outside the #DeploraBall  pic.twitter.com/CFcCEEcEl9 — Alexander Rubinstein (@AlexR_DC) January 20, 2017 Heavy security here at Deploraball. Lots of protesters outside. pic.twitter.com/Q004IVs1kL — Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) January 20, 2017 Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

Just hours before President-elect Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States, anti-Trump protests have broken out in Washington, D.C.

On "Tucker Carlson Tonight," Griff Jenkins reported from the nation's capital, where protesters gathered outside the National Press Club.

Jenkins spoke to a young boy who participated in starting a fire.

"Why'd you start that fire?" Jenkins asked.

"Because I felt like it, and because I'm just saying, 'Screw our president!'" the boy said.

Jenkins also spoke to Lacy MacAuley, a spokeswoman for DisruptJ20, which aims to cause a significant disruption during the inauguration festivities.

"We have to really be concerned about this dangerous direction our country is going in," MacAuley said. "When you come for our communities, when you come for us, and when you try to violate our rights, we will resist."

Riot police at DeploraBall protest at National Press Club. #disruptj20 pic.twitter.com/ltyWZeMoy5 — Hailey Branson-Potts (@haileybranson) January 20, 2017

Protests outside the #DeploraBall at Nat'l Press Club pic.twitter.com/wl0i5xZfaG — Greg Krieg (@GregJKrieg) January 20, 2017

Heavy security here at Deploraball. Lots of protesters outside. pic.twitter.com/Q004IVs1kL — Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) January 20, 2017

Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

FL Man Arrested for Threatening to Kill Trump at Inauguration

Gingrich: Dems Skipping Trump's Inauguration Are Abandoning America

Girls Scouts Under Fire for Marching in Trump's Inaugural Parade

FL Woman Says Trump Paid Her $1,000 Dinner Bill at His D.C. Hotel