Russell Westbrook's All-Star starter snub befuddles NBA peers
Russell Westbrook's All-Star starter snub befuddles NBA peers
Russell Westbrook's All-Star starter snub befuddles NBA peers NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Pierce comes back in for a 3 in Garden finale Singer flubs 'O Canada' before Nets-Raptors Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Furious Kerr tossed for arguing calls midcourt Is it finally John Wall's time? Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Stephen Curry, Warriors come up short against Kings Kevin Love's game shines bright in New York spotlight Cavaliers hoping for post-deadline, free-agent magic LeBron on Melo: 'I just want him to be happy' Derrick Rose on Knicks: 'The rebuild could be me going, too' Top fantasy basketball waiver-wire pickups at every position Russell Westbrook paints another masterpiece In current and all-time battle, Celtics ahead of Lakers Celtics' Stevens to coach East in All-Star Game Yao Ming's No. 11 jersey retired by Rockets Rockets use Harden plus intangibles to beat Bulls Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment A number of current and former NBA players voiced their displeasure with Russell Westbrook not being named a Western Conference All-Star starter , despite the Oklahoma City Thunder star averaging a triple-double over his first 44 games this season. Triple-Doubles All-Star starters (COMBINED)=19 Russ=21 Nobody deserves to start in the all star game over Russ. — Enes Kanter (@Enes_Kanter) January 20, 2017 Dude averaging a triple double and not starting in the all star game is wild. — Chandler Parsons (@ChandlerParsons) January 20, 2017 If leading the league in ppg and averaging a triple double isnt good enough lol #sheeesh  #PGpositionsnojoke — Jeremy Lin (@JLin7) January 20, 2017 I know he won't care either way, it's all about the team, but Nobody deserves to start in the all star game over Russ. — Anthony Morrow (@MrAnthonyMorrow) January 20, 2017 Start over Russ.... Tragic😳 — Cameron Payne (@campayne) January 20, 2017 Kevin Garnett on TNT just called Russell Westbrook not starting the All-Star game "the league's all-time history snub." — Fred Katz (@FredKatz) January 20, 2017 This season, All-Star Game starters were determined by voting from fans (50 percent), current players and media (both 25 percent). While Westbrook was first in voting among both players and media, he finished third in the fan voting. Stephen Curry , who will start alongside James Harden at guard for the West, finished first. After being informed Westbrook didn't get the starting nod, Los Angeles Clippers coach Doc Rivers told ESPN : "Fake news. I am just shocked the fans don't see the same thing we see." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

A number of current and former NBA players voiced their displeasure with Russell Westbrook not being named a Western Conference All-Star starter, despite the Oklahoma City Thunder star averaging a triple-double over his first 44 games this season.

Triple-Doubles



All-Star starters (COMBINED)=19

Russ=21



Nobody deserves to start in the all star game over Russ. — Enes Kanter (@Enes_Kanter) January 20, 2017

Dude averaging a triple double and not starting in the all star game is wild. — Chandler Parsons (@ChandlerParsons) January 20, 2017

If leading the league in ppg and averaging a triple double isnt good enough lol #sheeesh #PGpositionsnojoke — Jeremy Lin (@JLin7) January 20, 2017

I know he won't care either way, it's all about the team, but Nobody deserves to start in the all star game over Russ. — Anthony Morrow (@MrAnthonyMorrow) January 20, 2017

Start over Russ.... Tragic😳 — Cameron Payne (@campayne) January 20, 2017

Kevin Garnett on TNT just called Russell Westbrook not starting the All-Star game "the league's all-time history snub." — Fred Katz (@FredKatz) January 20, 2017

This season, All-Star Game starters were determined by voting from fans (50 percent), current players and media (both 25 percent).

While Westbrook was first in voting among both players and media, he finished third in the fan voting. Stephen Curry, who will start alongside James Harden at guard for the West, finished first.

After being informed Westbrook didn't get the starting nod, Los Angeles Clippers coach Doc Rivers told ESPN: "Fake news. I am just shocked the fans don't see the same thing we see."