High school student tells Betsy DeVos exactly how her policies would hurt her
High school student tells Betsy DeVos exactly how her policies would hurt her
Betsy Devos' confirmation hearing didn't go well , but Dannah Wilson's speech was a different story. In a speech delivered to the AFL-CIO, Michigan student Dannah Wilson delivered an emphatic and thoughtful statement about how Department of Education nominee Betsy DeVos's policies would probe hurtful to students everywhere. DeVos spent years in Michigan, where Dannah Wilson is a student, pushing for the privatization of the public education system as well as helping foster the spread of charter schools. Both of these movements, among other factors contributed to a stressful education experience for Wilson, who claims her and her siblings have collectively attended 22 different schools. Wilson is a Detroit high schooler and volunteer at 482Forward , a non-profit organization dedicated to, "creating a Detroit where every student graduates ready to become a fully engaged participant in the world, equipped with the character and the capacity to negotiate her environment and change it for the better." Wilson certainly embodies that message. Within 24 hours of being posted the speech was shared by the American Federation for Teachers and racked up more than 3 million views. Puppies predicting the Super Bowl are the only sports analysts we need This guy made his own self-lacing sneakers out of Lego No silly human, you may not take this cat's hard-earned money Someone beat 'Resident Evil 7' on the hardest difficulty using only a knife

Betsy Devos' confirmation hearing didn't go well, but Dannah Wilson's speech was a different story.

In a speech delivered to the AFL-CIO, Michigan student Dannah Wilson delivered an emphatic and thoughtful statement about how Department of Education nominee Betsy DeVos's policies would probe hurtful to students everywhere.

DeVos spent years in Michigan, where Dannah Wilson is a student, pushing for the privatization of the public education system as well as helping foster the spread of charter schools. Both of these movements, among other factors contributed to a stressful education experience for Wilson, who claims her and her siblings have collectively attended 22 different schools.

Wilson is a Detroit high schooler and volunteer at 482Forward, a non-profit organization dedicated to, "creating a Detroit where every student graduates ready to become a fully engaged participant in the world, equipped with the character and the capacity to negotiate her environment and change it for the better." Wilson certainly embodies that message.

Within 24 hours of being posted the speech was shared by the American Federation for Teachers and racked up more than 3 million views.