Secondary school league tables 2016: Grammar school children excel while comprehensives fall behind, figures show
Secondary school league tables 2016: 
Grammar school children excel while comprehensives fall behind, figures show
rammar schools allow children to achieve their potential, new Government figures reveal, while the brightest 150,000 state school children do not excel at comprehensives. Official data released by the Department for Education (DfE) shows that 94 per cent of children at grammar schools have made good progress by the time they are 16, compared to less than half (49 per cent) of students at non-selective schools. The figures will come as a boost for Prime Minister Theresa May’s plans to overturn the ban on grammar schools imposed by Labour some 20 years ago. nder the Government’s new ranking system – called Progress 8 – the 157,627 children who are classed as “high” achievers when they leave primary school are not exceeding by the time they reach GCSEs. Gareth Johnson MP, who is leading the campaign for grammars, said the figures “highlight very clearly the strengths of grammar schools” and show that academic children “flourish” in selective schools. “We shouldn’t try to pretend that all children are the same. We need diversity in education and grammars play an important part in this,” he said. ominic Raab MP, a former minister, said that academically gifted children must not be “held back by the dogmatic objections of the left-leaning educational establishment." Fellow backbencher Chris Philp said the figures are a “massive boost" for the argument in favour of grammar schools, and will "silence critics”. “I think it is very hard to see how the opponents of grammar schools can make their case when these figures show so clearly grammars help children develop ad fulfil potential," he said. t comes after Education Secretary Justine Greening gave a strong indication that the Government will  press ahead with grammar school plans in the face of stiff opposition. A consultation on expanding selective education closed before Christmas and the responses are being analysed by officials. The policy has divided Conservatives and angered teaching unions. But Ms Greening said this week education reforms cannot be put "on one side because people feel that there are things we shouldn't be looking at". his year is the first time that schools have been measured for progress as well as attainment. In previous years, the DfE has ranked schools according to the proportion of pupils achieving at least five grade A* to Cs at GCSE, including English and maths. This measure has now been scrapped in favour of Progress 8, which measures progress of each pupil from the end of primary school up to GCSEs. It compares pupils' results with the achievements of other pupils that have the same prior attainment and measures performance across eight qualifications. The eight “core” subjects measured by Progress 8 are English, maths, history or geography, the sciences, and a language. hadow Education Secretary Angela Rayner said that it is not a fair comparison to look at grammar school progress versus comprehensives. “Grammars cream off those who can pass exams at an early age,” she said. “But these are a tiny minority of children, invariably from better off families who can afford private tuition to cram them. “More new grammar schools with the Tories will just widen the attainment gap between the better off and the rest – and our country will ultimately be the poorer.” The figures, published on Thursday, also revealed a clear north-south divide with one in six secondary schools in the North West of England is under-performing. Every single school in Knowsley, Merseyside, was failing, as were 90 per cent of schools in Redcar and Cleveland, North Yorkshire.  Meanwhile, London has the lowest proportion of under-performing schools. Kevin Courtney, General Secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said "it would be a mistake to think that Progress 8 is a trustworthy measure of progress”. He said the majority of teachers question its validity as the results for 11-year-olds are “narrowly based and notoriously unreliable". Nick Gibb, the schools standard minister, said the figures “confirm the hard work of teachers and pupils across the country is leading to higher standards”. ur unique interactive version of the tables below allows you to search these results and others by specific school or region and compare schools of your choice against one another. If you want to search by specific school or postcode you can type it into the search box.

Grammar schools allow children to achieve their potential, new Government figures reveal, while the brightest 150,000 state school children do not excel at comprehensives.

Official data released by the Department for Education (DfE) shows that 94 per cent of children at grammar schools have made good progress by the time they are 16, compared to less than half (49 per cent) of students at non-selective schools.

The figures will come as a boost for Prime Minister Theresa May’s plans to overturn the ban on grammar schools imposed by Labour some 20 years ago.