Organization Urges Teachers, Students to Skip School & Protest Trump

Organization Urges Teachers, Students to Skip School & Protest Trump // // // // The National Education Association urged students and teachers to skip school today to protest President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration. "On Thursday, January 19, the day before Donald Trump assumes the presidency, thousands of students, parents, educators and community members from across the nation will hold rallies in front of school buildings to inclusively stand up for all students," the NEA said about the "National Day of Action." The protests were organized by the Alliance to Reclaim Our Schools, in opposition to Trump's presidency and his appointment for education secretary, Betsy DeVos. On "The First 100 Days" tonight, NEA Vice President Becky Pringle explained that her organization is focused on equity and access in public education. "We have joined forces with our parents and with communities and with educators all over this country to bring light to that and to bring resources to those schools and those parents, so that they can address the issues that our students are facing in those schools," Pringle said. She said they always want students in classrooms so they can learn, but they also support students' right to rally and voice their concerns. Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

The National Education Association urged students and teachers to skip school today to protest President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration.

"On Thursday, January 19, the day before Donald Trump assumes the presidency, thousands of students, parents, educators and community members from across the nation will hold rallies in front of school buildings to inclusively stand up for all students," the NEA said about the "National Day of Action."

The protests were organized by the Alliance to Reclaim Our Schools, in opposition to Trump's presidency and his appointment for education secretary, Betsy DeVos.

On "The First 100 Days" tonight, NEA Vice President Becky Pringle explained that her organization is focused on equity and access in public education.

"We have joined forces with our parents and with communities and with educators all over this country to bring light to that and to bring resources to those schools and those parents, so that they can address the issues that our students are facing in those schools," Pringle said.

She said they always want students in classrooms so they can learn, but they also support students' right to rally and voice their concerns.

Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

FL Man Arrested for Threatening to Kill Trump at Inauguration

Gingrich: Dems Skipping Trump's Inauguration Are Abandoning America

Girls Scouts Under Fire for Marching in Trump's Inaugural Parade

FL Woman Says Trump Paid Her $1,000 Dinner Bill at His D.C. Hotel