Taking The Automation Route, Infosys 'Releases' 9,000 Employees, Cuts Down On Hirings
Taking The Automation Route, Infosys 'Releases' 9,000 Employees, Cuts Down On Hirings
Taking The Automation Route, Infosys 'Releases' 9,000 Employees, Cuts Down On Hirings Infosys has "released" 8,000-9,000 employees in the past one year because of automation of lower-end jobs, the company's human resources head Krishnamurthy Shankar said. He said these employees are now working on more advanced projects. "We have been releasing about 2,000 people every quarter and also training them in special courses that will help them in their new assignments," Shankar said on the sidelines of an event organised by the Bengaluru chapter of Global Shapers, a body backed by the World Economic Forum. Also Read: Automation May Lead To 69 Per Cent Jobs Cuts In India: World Bank Shankar added that with automation set to increase in intensity, the number of people it hires will come down over time. It's actually coming down already, though all of it may not be a reflection of automation and is likely also to be the result of the company not doing as well this fiscal as it expected. Infosys added 5,700 people in the first nine months of this fiscal, compared to about 17,000 in the same period last year. In the December quarter, Infosys' total employee strength actually declined -an extremely rare occurrence for India's No. 2 IT services company. The total strength fell by 66 to 1,99,763. Also Read: Automation Will Leave 20 Crore Young Indians Jobless In Next 9 Years, Warns Infosys Veteran Mohandas Pai Most big IT services companies are investing heavily in automation of processes in their traditional businesses like BPO, application management and infrastructure management. Wipro has an automation platform called Holmes. The company's global HR head Saurabh Govil said in November that some 3,200 people were released through automation to do more innovative work. The target is to take that figure to 4,500 this fiscal. Such initiatives are helping companies improve their operating margins.

Infosys has "released" 8,000-9,000 employees in the past one year because of automation of lower-end jobs, the company's human resources head Krishnamurthy Shankar said. He said these employees are now working on more advanced projects.

Reuters

"We have been releasing about 2,000 people every quarter and also training them in special courses that will help them in their new assignments," Shankar said on the sidelines of an event organised by the Bengaluru chapter of Global Shapers, a body backed by the World Economic Forum.

Also Read: Automation May Lead To 69 Per Cent Jobs Cuts In India: World Bank

Shankar added that with automation set to increase in intensity, the number of people it hires will come down over time.

BCCL

It's actually coming down already, though all of it may not be a reflection of automation and is likely also to be the result of the company not doing as well this fiscal as it expected. Infosys added 5,700 people in the first nine months of this fiscal, compared to about 17,000 in the same period last year.

In the December quarter, Infosys' total employee strength actually declined -an extremely rare occurrence for India's No. 2 IT services company. The total strength fell by 66 to 1,99,763.

Also Read: Automation Will Leave 20 Crore Young Indians Jobless In Next 9 Years, Warns Infosys Veteran Mohandas Pai

Most big IT services companies are investing heavily in automation of processes in their traditional businesses like BPO, application management and infrastructure management. Wipro has an automation platform called Holmes.

Reuters

The company's global HR head Saurabh Govil said in November that some 3,200 people were released through automation to do more innovative work. The target is to take that figure to 4,500 this fiscal. Such initiatives are helping companies improve their operating margins.

Also Read: Infosys Is Officially Hiring Less Techies As Automation Becomes Rage In India's IT Sector

With TOI inputs