The Most Famous Celebrity Pet Accounts on Instagram
The Most Famous Celebrity Pet Accounts on Instagram
Celebrity pets are starting to take over Instagram, and yes, they probably have more followers than the majority of people you know. These four-legged friends are living the life of luxury just like their famous owners, and they are taking to social media (or their owners are) to show off their fabulous lives! So which famous pets top the list of the most followed celebrity pets on Instagram? Take a look at the list below: Amanda Seyfried’s dog, Finn, has 43.5k followers (@ finnsite ) Paris Hilton’s dog, Princess Paris Jr., has 45.5k followers (@ princessparisjr ) Bobby Flay’s orange Maine coon cat, Nacho, has 80.1k followers (@ nachoflay ) Karl Lagerfeld’s cat, Choupette Lagerfeld, has 91.5k followers (@ choupettesdiary ) The late Carrie Fisher’s beloved dog, Gary, has 124k followers (@ garyfisher ) Marc Jacobs’s dog, Neville, has 198k followers (@ nevillejacobs ) Andy Cohen’s dog, Wacha, has 205k followers (@ therealwacha ) Lady Gaga’s French bulldog, Miss Asia Kinney, has 236k followers (@ missasiakinney ) Kylie Jenner’s Italian greyhounds, Norman and Bambi, have a joint account that has 465k followers (@ normieandbambijenner ) Twitter , .

Celebrity pets are starting to take over Instagram, and yes, they probably have more followers than the majority of people you know. These four-legged friends are living the life of luxury just like their famous owners, and they are taking to social media (or their owners are) to show off their fabulous lives! So which famous pets top the list of the most followed celebrity pets on Instagram? Take a look at the list below:

Amanda Seyfried’s dog, Finn, has 43.5k followers (@finnsite) Paris Hilton’s dog, Princess Paris Jr., has 45.5k followers (@princessparisjr) Bobby Flay’s orange Maine coon cat, Nacho, has 80.1k followers (@nachoflay) Karl Lagerfeld’s cat, Choupette Lagerfeld, has 91.5k followers (@choupettesdiary) The late Carrie Fisher’s beloved dog, Gary, has 124k followers (@garyfisher) Marc Jacobs’s dog, Neville, has 198k followers (@nevillejacobs) Andy Cohen’s dog, Wacha, has 205k followers (@therealwacha) Lady Gaga’s French bulldog, Miss Asia Kinney, has 236k followers (@missasiakinney) Kylie Jenner’s Italian greyhounds, Norman and Bambi, have a joint account that has 465k followers (@normieandbambijenner)

Kerry Washington talked about partying until the early morning with the Obamas:

Tell us what you think! Share your comments with us on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Julissa Bermudez, on Twitter.