Era of Doping Outrage Is Ending in America's Pastime
An Era of Outrage Is Ending in America's Pastime
America's era of anger and outrage didn't begin with Donald Trump, the Tea Party, Barack Obama, the financial crisis or George W. Bush. You could say it began in 1998, as the St. Louis Cardinals' Mark McGwire and the Chicago Cubs' Sammy Sosa chased one of baseball's most hallowed records: the single-season home run total of 61. This week, the voting results released for the Baseball Hall of Fame Class of 2017 show that the sport is finally ready to move on from its steroid era outrage, providing hope that perhaps one day America will as well. The summer of 1998 restored baseball's popularity after the 1994 strike and cancellation of the World Series. Thanks in part to the talent dilution brought about by expansion teams in Arizona and Tampa Bay, both McGwire and Sosa broke the home run mark set by the New York Yankees' Roger Maris in 1961. Internet media was in its infancy, so ESPN's "SportsCenter" was must-see television for fans. Attendance at Wrigley Field in Chicago rose 20 percent, while attendance in St. Louis rose 35 percent.  Baseball's love affair with its late 1990s home run era changed in the mid-2000s. In late 2003, former American League most valuable player Jason Giambi admitted in front of a grand jury to using steroids and human growth hormone. Immediately rumors began to swirl about other prominent sluggers. What blew up the story was the publication of two books: 2005's "Juiced," an autobiography by McGwire's former teammate Jose Canseco, and 2006's "Game of Shadows," which chronicled the investigation of San Francisco Giants star Barry Bonds and the BALCO sports nutrition center. Seemingly overnight, a generation of baseball players was tarnished. Scandal brought about the typical investigations, blame game and outrage. George Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader, conducted a 20-month investigation into the use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs in baseball. His report, released in late 2007, included 89 players alleged to have used illegal PEDs. The sport changed its testing program and policies related to PEDs, and many of the players accused of using them became public villains for the remainder of their careers. McGwire was the first prominent player associated with the steroid era to appear on the Hall of Fame ballot; in 2007, he got just 23.5 percent of the vote. It was a sign that the baseball writers who cast votes were going to hold PED usage against players. Rafael Palmeiro, whose 569 home runs and 3,020 hits would have made him a lock for the Hall were it not for his association with PED usage, showed up on his first ballot in 2011 and got just 11 percent of the vote . In 2013, suspected PED users Bonds, Sosa and pitcher Roger Clemens first appeared on the ballot, and nobody was elected to the Hall for the first time since 1996. The process had become gridlocked: The rule permit voters to select a maximum of 10 players, and too many suspected PED users were garnering above 5 percent of votes, enough to remain on the ballot for the next year, but not enough to clear the 75 percent threshold for election. Something had to change. The Hall of Fame has reformed the process somewhat to address these shortcomings. In 2014, it limited the maximum number of years a player could stay on the ballot to 10 years , down from 15, in order to flush the steroid-era players through the system, one way or another, faster. McGwire appeared on his 10th and final ballot in 2016. In 2015, it stopped allowing writers who hadn't actively covered baseball in more than 10 years from voting, removing older, perhaps more unforgiving, voters from the process. These changes, especially the shifting demographics of the electorate, have given a lift to the prospects of the two most obvious Hall of Fame candidates from the era: Clemens and Bonds. Their voting tallies have been nearly identical in recent years. In their first three years on the ballot they both garnered voting percentages in the mid-30s. After inactive writers were removed from the process, in 2016 they jumped to about 45 percent. In the 2017 vote, they garnered about 54 percent. One more voting change is coming next year, forcing all voters to make their ballots public, which may give their chances an additional lift . The now increasingly likely odds that players from the steroid era will soon be elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame begins to close the book on an era of outrage that roiled the sport for most of the 2000s. Voting reform, changing demographics and the passage of time all played a part in making it happen. As the U.S., seemingly more paralyzed by outrage and polarization every year, braces itself for the Trump administration, baseball provides a glimmer of hope that this too may pass. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. To contact the author of this story: at csen9@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at sshick@bloomberg.net Facebook Twitter Email

America's era of anger and outrage didn't begin with Donald Trump, the Tea Party, Barack Obama, the financial crisis or George W. Bush. You could say it began in 1998, as the St. Louis Cardinals' Mark McGwire and the Chicago Cubs' Sammy Sosa chased one of baseball's most hallowed records: the single-season home run total of 61. This week, the voting results released for the Baseball Hall of Fame Class of 2017 show that the sport is finally ready to move on from its steroid era outrage, providing hope that perhaps one day America will as well.

The summer of 1998 restored baseball's popularity after the 1994 strike and cancellation of the World Series. Thanks in part to the talent dilution brought about by expansion teams in Arizona and Tampa Bay, both McGwire and Sosa broke the home run mark set by the New York Yankees' Roger Maris in 1961. Internet media was in its infancy, so ESPN's "SportsCenter" was must-see television for fans. Attendance at Wrigley Field in Chicago rose 20 percent, while attendance in St. Louis rose 35 percent.

QuickTake Baseball's Drug War

Baseball's love affair with its late 1990s home run era changed in the mid-2000s. In late 2003, former American League most valuable player Jason Giambi admitted in front of a grand jury to using steroids and human growth hormone. Immediately rumors began to swirl about other prominent sluggers. What blew up the story was the publication of two books: 2005's "Juiced," an autobiography by McGwire's former teammate Jose Canseco, and 2006's "Game of Shadows," which chronicled the investigation of San Francisco Giants star Barry Bonds and the BALCO sports nutrition center. Seemingly overnight, a generation of baseball players was tarnished.

Scandal brought about the typical investigations, blame game and outrage. George Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader, conducted a 20-month investigation into the use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs in baseball. His report, released in late 2007, included 89 players alleged to have used illegal PEDs. The sport changed its testing program and policies related to PEDs, and many of the players accused of using them became public villains for the remainder of their careers.

McGwire was the first prominent player associated with the steroid era to appear on the Hall of Fame ballot; in 2007, he got just 23.5 percent of the vote. It was a sign that the baseball writers who cast votes were going to hold PED usage against players. Rafael Palmeiro, whose 569 home runs and 3,020 hits would have made him a lock for the Hall were it not for his association with PED usage, showed up on his first ballot in 2011 and got just 11 percent of the vote.

In 2013, suspected PED users Bonds, Sosa and pitcher Roger Clemens first appeared on the ballot, and nobody was elected to the Hall for the first time since 1996. The process had become gridlocked: The rule permit voters to select a maximum of 10 players, and too many suspected PED users were garnering above 5 percent of votes, enough to remain on the ballot for the next year, but not enough to clear the 75 percent threshold for election. Something had to change.

The Hall of Fame has reformed the process somewhat to address these shortcomings. In 2014, it limited the maximum number of years a player could stay on the ballot to 10 years, down from 15, in order to flush the steroid-era players through the system, one way or another, faster. McGwire appeared on his 10th and final ballot in 2016. In 2015, it stopped allowing writers who hadn't actively covered baseball in more than 10 years from voting, removing older, perhaps more unforgiving, voters from the process.

These changes, especially the shifting demographics of the electorate, have given a lift to the prospects of the two most obvious Hall of Fame candidates from the era: Clemens and Bonds. Their voting tallies have been nearly identical in recent years. In their first three years on the ballot they both garnered voting percentages in the mid-30s. After inactive writers were removed from the process, in 2016 they jumped to about 45 percent. In the 2017 vote, they garnered about 54 percent. One more voting change is coming next year, forcing all voters to make their ballots public, which may give their chances an additional lift.

The now increasingly likely odds that players from the steroid era will soon be elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame begins to close the book on an era of outrage that roiled the sport for most of the 2000s. Voting reform, changing demographics and the passage of time all played a part in making it happen. As the U.S., seemingly more paralyzed by outrage and polarization every year, braces itself for the Trump administration, baseball provides a glimmer of hope that this too may pass.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Conor Sen at csen9@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Stacey Shick at sshick@bloomberg.net