Apple's iPhone 8 will recognize its owner's face
New iPhone 8 rumours sugget handset will recognize its owner's face


Apple's iPhone 8 may still be months away, but the rumors about the highly anticipated smartphone are flooding the internet.

The latest rumor was leaked by Cowen and Company that suggests this year's tenth anniversary handset will have 'some form of facial/gesture recognition'.

Sources also speculated that there will be a new 5.8 inch model, complete with a 'wraparound' OLED screen with a Touch ID fingerprint sensor underneath the glass.

The latest rumor was leaked by Cowen and Company that suggests this year's iOS handset will have 'some form of facial/gesture recognition'. A new laser sensor and an infrared sensor mounted near the front-facing camera

IPHONE 8 RUMORS Several rumors have been circulating about the iPhone 8, and suggest the next device may have: - Dual-lens 3D camera - Augmented reality to generate real-time views of surroundings - Curved glass casing - Plastic OLED screen - Wireless charging - A folding element - New 5 inch (12.7 centimeter) and 5.8 inch (14.7 centimeter) model, which will have a wraparound, OLED screen - 5.8 inch will be designed with the Touch ID finger print sensor 'under the glass and in the active display area.' - A new 'pure white' model - Aluminum back will be replaced with two reinforced glass panes and a metal frame in the middle - Facial recognition

Written by Timothy Arcuri, a Cowen and Company analyst, the note was firest reported by Kif Leswing withBusiness Insider.

'Other features appear to include some form of facial/gesture recognition supported by a new laser sensor and an infrared sensor mounted near the front-facing camera and, as expected, should also finally include wireless charging,' Arcuri wrote.

Although this is the first news about a new type of depth sensor, the firm had previously purchased an infrared sensor company, Primesense, back in 2013 that may be the creator of the technology.

And, according to Business Insider, if Apple is to add the augmented reality features that are also rumored in the iPhone, it will need to develop a new kind of sensor.

In addition to predicting new technology, Arcuri suggests that the iPhone 8 will result in record number of shipments.

This may be due to the disappointment that many iOS users had with last year's iPhone7 - as it seems to be just a refreshed iPhone 6.

And these loyal customers are expecting Apple to make up for their blunder with cutting-edge features.

Arcuri said he believes the next iPhone, which he is calling the 'iPhone 10' or 'iPhone X,' will be 'yuge' and could spark a 'supercycle' of upgraders.

He also predicted there will be three models for the next flagship iPhone – the traditional 4.7- and 5.5-inch models, but with a new 5.8-inch handset.

The 5.8-inch iPhone, Arcuri suggests, will have a 'wraparound' OLED screen that will be designed with the Touch ID finger print sensor 'under the glass and in the active display area.'

Another rumor to hit the web gives insight to what Apple's phone may look like.

Coming from an 'upstream supply chain', the speculation suggests that the Cupertino company is ditching the aluminium back cover.

Rumors also say there will be three iPhone 8 models – the 4.7in, 5.5in and a 5.8-inch handset. The 5.8-inch iPhone, Arcuri suggests, will have a 'wraparound' OLED screen that will be designed with the Touch ID finger print sensor 'under the glass and in the active display area'

Instead, it will be designed with a stainless steel forging process that brings together two reinforced glass panels supported by a metal frame.

It was first reported by Chinese newspaper DigiTimes, which revealed the new components would be ordered from Foxconn electronics US-based Jabil – firms who worked with Apple in creating the iPhone 4, reports 9To5Mac.

'The metal bezel will be made of stainless steel using a forging process to enhance its sturdiness and reduce costs and manufacturing time,' reports DigiTimes.

Other than giving the iPhone 8 a sleeker design, this move will ensure the glass panels in the front and back hold together.

And it should decrease costs by 30 percent to 50 percent.