Court Says Rapes Took Place At Murthal During Jat Protest In 2016, Directs Cops To Find Rapists
Court Says Rapes Took Place At Murthal During Jat Protest In 2016, Asks Cops To Find Rapists
Court Says Rapes Took Place At Murthal During Jat Protest In 2016, Directs Cops To Find Rapists The Punjab and Haryana high court observed has that the statements of some witnesses and the recovery of women's undergarments indicate that rapes had taken place at Murthal during Jat quota protests in February 2016. The court asked the state police special investigation team to find the culprits to instill confidence in the public. Also Read: Haryana Govt Denies Any Gang Rapes Happened During Jat Protest In Murthal. HC Takes Note, Acts! The judges also observed that two witnesses, one of them a taxi driver, had said that women were dragged out of their vehicles, which indicated that rapes had taken place. The HC has stayed the framing of charges in the rape case being heard in a trial court in Sonipat. Haryana Police filed an FIR after the HC took suo motu cognisance of newspaper reports. Also Read: Police And Army Deny Mass Gang Rape At Murthal, But Witnesses Claim They Saw Women's Clothes Being Ripped Off Police had accused five alleged rioters of rape, but the charge was dropped as their blood did not match semen samples taken from the undergarments. The HC also asked the SIT to file an affidavit before the trial court that rape charges hadn't been dropped and were still under investigation. He alleged had the Sonipat trial judge not informed the high court about rape charges being dropped against the five accused, the SIT would have closed the case much earlier. Gupta also opposed the SIT's efforts to record the statement of one of the witnesses, Raj Kumar, before the trial court under CrPC Section 164. Also Read: More Eyewitnesses Emerge In Murthal Gang Rape As Police Forms Special Probe Committee He said the SIT was acting as the defence in the case and making deliberate attempts to drop rape charges in the case. He asked the court to hand the case to CBI.

The Punjab and Haryana high court observed has that the statements of some witnesses and the recovery of women's undergarments indicate that rapes had taken place at Murthal during Jat quota protests in February 2016.

BCCL

The court asked the state police special investigation team to find the culprits to instill confidence in the public.

Also Read: Haryana Govt Denies Any Gang Rapes Happened During Jat Protest In Murthal. HC Takes Note, Acts!

The judges also observed that two witnesses, one of them a taxi driver, had said that women were dragged out of their vehicles, which indicated that rapes had taken place.

BCCL

The HC has stayed the framing of charges in the rape case being heard in a trial court in Sonipat. Haryana Police filed an FIR after the HC took suo motu cognisance of newspaper reports.

Also Read: Police And Army Deny Mass Gang Rape At Murthal, But Witnesses Claim They Saw Women's Clothes Being Ripped Off

Police had accused five alleged rioters of rape, but the charge was dropped as their blood did not match semen samples taken from the undergarments. The HC also asked the SIT to file an affidavit before the trial court that rape charges hadn't been dropped and were still under investigation.

BCCL

He alleged had the Sonipat trial judge not informed the high court about rape charges being dropped against the five accused, the SIT would have closed the case much earlier. Gupta also opposed the SIT's efforts to record the statement of one of the witnesses, Raj Kumar, before the trial court under CrPC Section 164.

Also Read: More Eyewitnesses Emerge In Murthal Gang Rape As Police Forms Special Probe Committee

He said the SIT was acting as the defence in the case and making deliberate attempts to drop rape charges in the case. He asked the court to hand the case to CBI.

BCCL

At this, the bench asked the CBI counsel to inform it whether the agency was ready to probe the case. The CBI counsel said though the agency was overburdened, it would follow the directions of the court.

Also Read: Delhi Woman Alleges Gang Rape In Murthal During Jat Agitation, FIR Filed By Haryana Police

The counsel for the state government, however, informed the court that the SIT was still probing the case and trying to find the victims and the accused.

Inputs From TNN