Donald Trump supporters descend on Washington DC ahead of inauguration



Donald Trump supporters descend on Washington DC ahead of inauguration

Updated

Almost 1 million people are expected on the streets of Washington DC to see the inauguration of Donald Trump.

Many will come from far afield, from the inland so-called "flyover states" that helped Mr Trump get elected. Places like Western Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Wisconsin.

Many voters in rural America regard themselves as the forgotten people and, for them, a vote for Donald Trump was a vote against elitism and the Washington establishment in favour of something fresh in the form of a New York billionaire who pays little regard to convention.

Among those in DC for the big event are Mike McMullen and Marianne Stearns, friends from Pittsburgh who have been firm supporters of Mr Trump throughout his campaign.

They are particularly in favour of his plans to tighten immigration and to build a wall across the Mexican border, and to dismantle and replace the Obamacare health scheme.

"I really think they're going to repeal and replace Obamacare and just get rid of it, and I think the wall it's going to be started not day one but definitely within a couple of weeks," Mr McMullen said during the drive down from Pittsburgh to DC.

Both are keenly aware of the division that Mr Trump's election has highlighted.

For Ms Stearns, it is important he addresses that head on.

"I'd like to hear that he wants to work together for the good of the country," she says.

"I know everyone's not going to agree. I mean, we didn't even with other presidents but I'd like everyone to work because right now the country isn't in a good place."

Mr Trump has set himself a huge agenda in his first 100 days and plans to get to work immediately with executive orders to take apart departing President Barack Obama's policies.

While the President-elect has spent the past 10 weeks nominating his key cabinet members and beginning the process of getting them confirmed, his presidency will only now begin to take shape.

Historically, presidents have a honeymoon period of about 200 days to push key personnel and policies through so there is no time to waste if Mr Trump wants to set a framework for the next four — or eight — years.

His supporters' patience is not open-ended either. They expect results in line with his large scale promises.

"You've got the House, you've got the Senate, now he's got to govern, now he's got to lead," Mr McMullen said.

"Right, and you know you can talk and talk but it's what he does," Ms Stearns added.

Parts of Washington are now locked down ahead of the inauguration. As well as supporters like Mr McMullen and Ms Stearns, thousands of protestors are expected.

Topics: us-elections, government-and-politics, world-politics, united-states

First posted