Donald Trump seemingly forgot Obama had an inauguration concert
Donald Trump seemingly forgot Obama had an inauguration concert
Popular videos    Could A Cure for Wellness be the first great horror film of 2017?      Ghost in the Shell spot gets inside Scarlett Johansson's The Major      Donald Trump spent a National Prayer meeting plugging The Apprentice      Trump vows to 'totally destroy' US rules on religion in politics   Eight years ago, then-incoming President Barack Obama held an enormous concert at the Lincoln memorial called “We Are One.” During the ceremony, the likes of Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Mary J. Blige, John Legend, and Stevie Wonder played, making for a wonderful event remembered the world over. Sorry, did I just write remembered the world over? Perhaps not. Somehow, Donald Trump , the now incoming President of the United States, completely forgot Obama ever held an event in front of the Lincoln memorial. Not only that, but Trump basically patted himself on the back for coming up with eh idea of holding an inauguration concert the day before the inauguration. Donald Trump's most controversial quotes               Donald Trump's most controversial quotes    On Mexicans   “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Senator McCain   “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”   Getty Images     On Megyn Kelly   “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.”   AFP/Getty Images     On Vladimir Putin   “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.”   Getty Images     On his popularity   “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.”   AFP/Getty Images     On torture   "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding."   Getty Images     On his body   “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.”   AFP/Getty Images     On president Obama   “He is the founder of Isis.”   Getty Images     On the Second Amendment   "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."   AFP/Getty Images     On Hilary Clinton's emails   “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”   AFP/Getty Images     On sexual assault   In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault:
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.”   Getty Images     On tax loopholes   "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from."   AFP/Getty Images     On his accuser   “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “Such a nasty woman”   Getty Images     On his pro-life stance   “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable”   Getty Images     On his accusers   "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.”   Getty Images     On the 'rigged' election system   “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.”   Getty Images     On Hillary Clinton   “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”   Getty Images  “This started out tonight being a small little concert, and then we had the idea of doing it in front of the Lincoln memorial,” he said onstage during the “Make America Great Again!” concert. “I don’t know if it has ever been done before, but if it has, very seldom. And the people came by the thousands and thousands, all the way back.” Later on, during the same speech, he added: “We didn’t even know if people would come tonight, this hasn’t been done before.” The moment starts around the 1:59:00 mark in the below video. Presumably, Trump is joking, right? Could the 45th President of the United States really believe he came up with the novel idea of holding a celebratory inauguration concert at the Lincoln memorial despite the 44th President of the United States holding exactly the same concert? Just one of many, many, many questions we’ll be asking of Trump over the next four years. Meanwhile, also at the concert, Jon Voight thanked Trump for running for President , despite Trump saying of his daughter, actress Angelina Jolie: “She’s been with so many guys she makes me look like a baby.” More about: Barack Obama Donald Trump Comments

Eight years ago, then-incoming President Barack Obama held an enormous concert at the Lincoln memorial called “We Are One.”

During the ceremony, the likes of Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Mary J. Blige, John Legend, and Stevie Wonder played, making for a wonderful event remembered the world over.

Sorry, did I just write remembered the world over? Perhaps not. Somehow, Donald Trump, the now incoming President of the United States, completely forgot Obama ever held an event in front of the Lincoln memorial.

Not only that, but Trump basically patted himself on the back for coming up with eh idea of holding an inauguration concert the day before the inauguration.

Donald Trump's most controversial quotes







18 show all Donald Trump's most controversial quotes

































1/18 On Mexicans “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending the best. They’re not sending you, they’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bring crime. They’re rapists… And some, I assume, are good people.” AFP/Getty Images

2/18 On Senator McCain “He’s not a war hero... He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” Getty Images

3/18 On Megyn Kelly “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.” AFP/Getty Images

4/18 On Vladimir Putin “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Getty Images

5/18 On his popularity “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” AFP/Getty Images

6/18 On torture "I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding." Getty Images

7/18 On his body “Look at those hands, are they small hands? And, [Republican rival Marco Rubio] referred to my hands: ‘If they’re small, something else must be small.’ I guarantee you there’s no problem. I guarantee.” AFP/Getty Images

8/18 On president Obama “He is the founder of Isis.” Getty Images

9/18 On the Second Amendment "Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know." AFP/Getty Images

10/18 On Hilary Clinton's emails “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.” AFP/Getty Images

11/18 On sexual assault In a statement regarding the release of a 2005 video in which he can be heard boasting about sexual assault: “This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course.” Getty Images

12/18 On tax loopholes "I absolutely used it, and so did Warren Buffett, and so did George Soros and so did many people who Hillary is getting money from." AFP/Getty Images

13/18 On his accuser “Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you.” Getty Images

14/18 On Hillary Clinton “Such a nasty woman” Getty Images

15/18 On his pro-life stance “Based on what she's saying ... you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month, on the final day, and that's unacceptable” Getty Images

16/18 On his accusers "Total fabrication. The events never happened. Never. All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.” Getty Images

17/18 On the 'rigged' election system “I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win.” Getty Images

18/18 On Hillary Clinton “I hate to say it but if I win I'm going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation. There has never been so many lies, so much deception. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.” Getty Images

“This started out tonight being a small little concert, and then we had the idea of doing it in front of the Lincoln memorial,” he said onstage during the “Make America Great Again!” concert. “I don’t know if it has ever been done before, but if it has, very seldom. And the people came by the thousands and thousands, all the way back.”

Later on, during the same speech, he added: “We didn’t even know if people would come tonight, this hasn’t been done before.” The moment starts around the 1:59:00 mark in the below video.

Presumably, Trump is joking, right? Could the 45th President of the United States really believe he came up with the novel idea of holding a celebratory inauguration concert at the Lincoln memorial despite the 44th President of the United States holding exactly the same concert? Just one of many, many, many questions we’ll be asking of Trump over the next four years.

Meanwhile, also at the concert, Jon Voight thanked Trump for running for President, despite Trump saying of his daughter, actress Angelina Jolie: “She’s been with so many guys she makes me look like a baby.”