Shah Rukh Khan Just Met His Mumbai Cobbler Fan Who Was Inspired By His Dialogue In 'Raees'
Shah Rukh Khan Just Met His Mumbai Cobbler Fan Who Was Inspired By His Dialogue In 'Raees'
Shah Rukh Khan Just Met His Mumbai Cobbler Fan Who Was Inspired By His Dialogue In 'Raees' Shah Rukh Khan has been an inspiration for many and for reasons more than one. In addition to playing a love-lorn hero in reel life, SRK is a life and love guru in real life as well. His pearls of wisdom have changed many lives. Remember when we told you how a Mumbai-based cobbler got inspired by a dialogue from Shah Rukh Khan's ? One of the most significant dialogues from saw cobbler Rohidas inspired. Rohidas, who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, was inspired by the dialogue, and put up a banner on the walls of his roadside shop. Talking to the media, Rohidas revealed how he was really left inspired after hearing the dialogue. When SRK was asked on the same, he said, "I am very touched and very happy that people think like this and get inspired. I am sure there are many more people, who think that no work is below dignity." In the bargain, Rohidas got the golden chance of meeting Shah Rukh Khan and even gifted him a pair of shoes. The Rahul Dholakia-directed is slated to hit theatres on January 25.

Shah Rukh Khan has been an inspiration for many and for reasons more than one. In addition to playing a love-lorn hero in reel life, SRK is a life and love guru in real life as well. His pearls of wisdom have changed many lives. Remember when we told you how a Mumbai-based cobbler got inspired by a dialogue from Shah Rukh Khan's Raees?

One of the most significant dialogues from Raees, "Koi Dhandha Chota Nahi Hota Aur Dhandhe Se Bada Koi Dharam Nahi Hota" saw cobbler Rohidas inspired.

Rohidas, who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, was inspired by the dialogue, and put up a banner on the walls of his roadside shop.

Talking to the media, Rohidas revealed how he was really left inspired after hearing the dialogue. When SRK was asked on the same, he said,

"I am very touched and very happy that people think like this and get inspired. I am sure there are many more people, who think that no work is below dignity."

In the bargain, Rohidas got the golden chance of meeting Shah Rukh Khan and even gifted him a pair of shoes.

The Rahul Dholakia-directed Raees is slated to hit theatres on January 25.