Corey Lewandowski says Trump won’t hold inaugural boycott against Dems
Corey Lewandowski says Trump won’t hold inaugural boycott against Dems
U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski at a rally at the Dayton International Airport in Dayton, Ohio March 12, 2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Jan 20, 2017 6:05 AM EST President-elect Donald Trump’s former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, says he’s humbled as his former boss begins his presidency and promises that Mr. Trump won’t hold a grudge against the 60-plus House Democrats who are boycotting his inauguration. When pressed by CBS News Chief White House Correspondent Major Garrett during his podcast “The Takeout,” Lewandowski insisted that those boycotting Democrats will get their calls to Mr. Trump returned -- if they reach out during his presidency. “Of course they will, because he’s the president of everybody,” he said. Explore the inauguration in a 360-degree video CBSN presents the inauguration of Donald J. Trump, 45th president of the United States of America, in an interactive 360-degree video Lewandowski, famous for his combativeness and criticized for his over-aggressiveness with reporters, told “The Takeout” he now has a different perspective as Trump begins his time in the White House. “It’s unbelievably humbling,” said Lewandowski, who was fired as Trump’s campaign manager in June and has opened a lobbying firm one block from the White House. “I’m trying to sit back and enjoy the moment… knowing that in a very short period of time, a friend of mine is going to become president of the United States. It’s amazing because two years ago, nobody thought it was possible,” he said “For me, I want to sit back and enjoy it,” Lewandowski added.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Steve Chaggaris is CBS News' senior political editor.

President-elect Donald Trump’s former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, says he’s humbled as his former boss begins his presidency and promises that Mr. Trump won’t hold a grudge against the 60-plus House Democrats who are boycotting his inauguration.

When pressed by CBS News Chief White House Correspondent Major Garrett during his podcast “The Takeout,” Lewandowski insisted that those boycotting Democrats will get their calls to Mr. Trump returned -- if they reach out during his presidency.

“Of course they will, because he’s the president of everybody,” he said.

Lewandowski, famous for his combativeness and criticized for his over-aggressiveness with reporters, told “The Takeout” he now has a different perspective as Trump begins his time in the White House.

“It’s unbelievably humbling,” said Lewandowski, who was fired as Trump’s campaign manager in June and has opened a lobbying firm one block from the White House.

“I’m trying to sit back and enjoy the moment… knowing that in a very short period of time, a friend of mine is going to become president of the United States. It’s amazing because two years ago, nobody thought it was possible,” he said

“For me, I want to sit back and enjoy it,” Lewandowski added.

New episodes of “The Takeout” are available Friday mornings on iTunes, Google Play and Stitcher. And follow “The Takeout” on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter: @TakeoutPodcast.