Mexican man with the half-metre PENIS rejects reduction
The man with the half-metre PENIS


The man with the world's longest penis has rejected the possibility of having a reduction - even if it means he won't ever have sex.

Roberto Esquivel Cabrera, 54, from Saltillo, Mexico, has a penis measuring a colossal 18.9 inches when flaccid - touching his knee.

He made headlines worldwide in 2015 after a video went viral showing him weighing his member to prove its authenticity.

His half-metre penis smashed the unofficial record believed to belong to US actor Jonah Falcon, whose penis was 9.5 inches flaccid and 13.5 inches when erect.

'I would like to be in the Guinness Book of Records but they don't recognise this record,' he told Barcroft TV.

Scroll down for video

Roberto Esquivel Cabrera, 54, from Saltillo, Mexico, has a penis measuring a colossal 18.9 inches. He made headlines worldwide in 2015 after a video went viral showing him weighing his member to prove its authenticity

'I am famous because I have the biggest penis in the world. I am happy with my penis, I know nobody has the size I have.'

But despite his pride, members of the medical community have urged him to at least consider a penile reduction.

Dr Jesus David Salazar Gonzalez said: 'We have advised him "Roberto, the best thing for you is that the doctors give a normal shape to your penis so that it doesn't hurt you, in order to have sexual relationships, in order to have children".

'But he doesn't accept it, he'd rather have a penis bigger than the rest of the people.

'In Latin culture whoever has the bigger penis is more macho.

'It's something that makes him different to the rest of the people and makes him feels special.'

Doctors recently did a thorough examination of Mr Cabrera's penis, confirming suspicions that the bulk of his nearly 20-inch penis is foreskin.

His penile glands stretch only seven inches, meaning the rest of his member is completely foreskin and blood vessels.

Doctors say his penis became quite so large because he has been stretching it with weights ever since he was a teenager

They have also been able to offer some insight in just how his penis became quite so large - they say he has been stretching his penis with weights since his teenager.

Dr Gonzalez added: 'He was obsessed with the penis length.

'He began with this enlargement since he was a teenager, wrapping some bands around his penis with some weights and trying to stretch it.'

HOW IS HIS PENIS SO BIG? Mr Cabrera began stretching the length of his penis using weights when he was a teenager. By wrapping bands around his member, it placed tension which resulted in small tears in the tissue. The body naturally repairs these tears, resulting in new cellular growth and causing a larger penis. But unlike stretching a material, the penis will not only gain in length but also girth. Source: PEGym

The sheer size of Mr Cabrera's penis causes him a number of health problems, including frequent urinary tract infections because not all his urine escapes his lengthy foreskin.

While he keeps his colossal member wrapped in bandages to escape chaffing.

He is also unable to sleep chest down and has to put his penis on its own pillow to escape discomfort during the night.

And an active sex life is off limits for him as his penis has too much girth to have intercourse.

Mr Cabrera added: 'Some people ask me if I put some condoms on it and the answer is: I cannot. I can never penetrate anyone because it is too thick.'

While living in the US, he attempted to have sex twice, but the first woman backed out as soon as she saw his penis.

While the other one had to stop because it was too painful.

Mr Cabrera says his penis is a 'disability' and stops him working - forcing him to rely on food banks to survive.

Doctors recently did a thorough examination of Mr Cabrera's penis, confirming suspicions that the bulk of his nearly 20 inch penis is foreskin

'I cannot wear a uniform like anybody in the companies and also I cannot get on my knees,' he said.

'I cannot run fast and so the companies think badly of me. They say that they will call me, but they never do.'

I am happy with my penis, I know nobody has the size I have. I would like to be in the Guinness Book of Records but they don't recognise this record. Roberto Esquivel Cabrera, 54

According to Mr Cabrera, after initially dismissing his claim, the government has now recognised him as disabled.

Every four months they provide him with some economic assistance, but 'it's not enough', he says.

Another downside to having such a gigantic penis is that many people believe it is a hoax.

He said: 'Sometimes when the people ask me if it's real or not, I ask them "Do you want to see it?'''

But he has allowed Dr Gonzalez to touch it to confirm its authenticity.

While the doctors also believe there may be a neurological explanation for his desire for an ever-larger penis.

But despite his pride, members of the medical community have urged him to at least consider a penile reduction

'In an encephalogram we observed that he had an alteration at the right temporal lobe,' Dr Gonzalez said.

'This alteration gives people exotic ideas, for example they tend to speak a lot about religion or they are very persevering and stubborn.

IN COMPARISON? Below are a list of average penis sizes of various animals. Blue Whale: 96 inches Elephant: 72 inches Giraffe: 40 inches Walrus: 25 inches Roberto Cabrera: 18 inches Pig: 18 inches Argentine blue-bill lake duck: 17 inches Average human: 5 inches Chimpanzee: 3 inches Gorilla: 1 inch

'Like these women who go for bigger breasts, or men who want bigger gluteals, he modifies his body in the same way.'

However, there is a darker side to Mr Cabrera's past - while living in the US he was convicted on a string of indecency charges.

They include a felony assault charge for exposing himself to two underage girls, a conviction he appealed unsuccessfully.

He was forced to leave the US in 2001 but has now set his sights set on returning.

An adult entertainment company offered to pay for a reduction, but he refused and says his goal is to to meet the right woman.

While he also has hopes of becoming a porn star in the future.

He added: 'I am happy with my penis and I wish to go back to the US and spend the rest of my life over there.

'I don't feel sad because I know in the US there is a lot of women. One of them will be the right size for me.

'I would like to be a porn star and I think I would make a lot of money over there.

'And the people are not like over here, they are more liberal: they don't care about what I have in my pants.'