Trump's 20 Million Twitter Followers Get Smaller Under The Microscope
Trump's 20 Million Twitter Followers Get Smaller Under The Microscope
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Rob Salkowitz       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Trump's Twitter profile reveals a complex picture. Image by Rob Salkowitz. Donald J. Trump hit an awesome milestone this week, one he’s been working toward for years, and which he obviously views with great importance and utmost respect: he has passed 20 million followers on Twitter. Not only has this massive online following been crucial in the president-elect’s rise to power, but Twitter has been his primary instrument for communicating with the world since the election. Earlier this week, Trump promised to unleash his followers on opponents, including fellow Republicans, if they don’t fall in line behind his policy agenda. The more contentious things become in Washington, the more likely we are to hear Trump’s prodigious Twitter following being used as a cudgel against his less follower-endowed opponents, and as an indicator of his broad popularity. So who are these 20 million? Are they really an online army at his command, a monolithic block of shock troops and #deplorables ready to #MAGA? Analysis by data science platform Affinio , which uses machine learning to identify clusters of common traits and interests within a data set, reveals the picture is quite a bit more complicated. President-elect Donald Trump speaks to the media following a meeting with Steve Harvey at Trump Tower on January 13, 2017 in New York. (BRYAN R. SMITH/AFP/Getty Images) As of Jan. 16 at 1 p.m. ET, there were 19.92 million accounts following @RealDonaldTrump (he passed 20 million shortly thereafter). That's a lot, but remember, any Twitter account of that size accumulates a fair amount of detritus in the form of bots, spam accounts and other zombie followers who don't represent engaged users. In addition, big celebrities on Twitter are often followed by a number of overseas accounts that may or may not be legitimate. In Trump's case, many of those followers come from Moscow or elsewhere in Russia, India, Nigeria and Latin American countries, primarily Venezuela and Mexico.  It's not surprising that our PEOTUS is followed by people around the world, but those people should not be counted as part of Trump's electoral base in the U.S. Heatmap of Donald Trump's 20 million Twitter followers worldwide, including many accounts which may be bots, spam or inactive users. Generated by Affinio platform, 1/16/17. If you limit the scope of analysis to accounts of users who self-identify as living in the United States, those 20 million total followers worldwide become more like 3 million active domestic Twitter users who included a location setting in their Twitter profile, and thus are likely to represent actual people and businesses. Affinio says they often see large shifts in audience size by applying this kind of geography filter. What do we know about these followers? Based on an analysis of user profiles, about 52% are male, 48% female, with a plurality falling within the ages of 24-34. An additional 28% or so are 35-44, and 18% are older than 45. Just about 13%, or about 360,000, tweet more than 15 times per month, indicating a high level of engagement. They also fall into 10 distinct categories, some obvious and others less so. Word cloud of keywords from Trump followers' Twitter bios. Generated by Affinio platform, 1/16/17.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Donald J. Trump hit an awesome milestone this week, one he’s been working toward for years, and which he obviously views with great importance and utmost respect: he has passed 20 million followers on Twitter.

Not only has this massive online following been crucial in the president-elect’s rise to power, but Twitter has been his primary instrument for communicating with the world since the election. Earlier this week, Trump promised to unleash his followers on opponents, including fellow Republicans, if they don’t fall in line behind his policy agenda. The more contentious things become in Washington, the more likely we are to hear Trump’s prodigious Twitter following being used as a cudgel against his less follower-endowed opponents, and as an indicator of his broad popularity.

So who are these 20 million? Are they really an online army at his command, a monolithic block of shock troops and #deplorables ready to #MAGA? Analysis by data science platform Affinio, which uses machine learning to identify clusters of common traits and interests within a data set, reveals the picture is quite a bit more complicated.

20 Million? Depends On How You Count

As of Jan. 16 at 1 p.m. ET, there were 19.92 million accounts following @RealDonaldTrump (he passed 20 million shortly thereafter). That's a lot, but remember, any Twitter account of that size accumulates a fair amount of detritus in the form of bots, spam accounts and other zombie followers who don't represent engaged users. In addition, big celebrities on Twitter are often followed by a number of overseas accounts that may or may not be legitimate. In Trump's case, many of those followers come from Moscow or elsewhere in Russia, India, Nigeria and Latin American countries, primarily Venezuela and Mexico. It's not surprising that our PEOTUS is followed by people around the world, but those people should not be counted as part of Trump's electoral base in the U.S.

If you limit the scope of analysis to accounts of users who self-identify as living in the United States, those 20 million total followers worldwide become more like 3 million active domestic Twitter users who included a location setting in their Twitter profile, and thus are likely to represent actual people and businesses. Affinio says they often see large shifts in audience size by applying this kind of geography filter.

What do we know about these followers? Based on an analysis of user profiles, about 52% are male, 48% female, with a plurality falling within the ages of 24-34. An additional 28% or so are 35-44, and 18% are older than 45. Just about 13%, or about 360,000, tweet more than 15 times per month, indicating a high level of engagement. They also fall into 10 distinct categories, some obvious and others less so.