Someone made a map of the world according to Donald Trump
Someone made a map of the world according to Donald Trump
Maps are always good for visualisation, and Bulgarian artist Yanko Tsvetkov has made a map of what the world (supposedly) looks like to the Commander-in-Chief-in-waiting. His ‘global stereotype’ maps became so popular he ended up publishing the satirical images in two books, and most recently an edition, Well, Tsvetkov struck again, this time with a World Map According to Donald Trump:     When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.   In a blog post about the map, Tsvetkov wrote: It’s time to face things as they really are: Trump, for all his potential as a shrewd businessman, actually possesses the mentality of a rural alcoholic whose only experience with political debate starts and ends at a local pub. If you’re a bit more sentimental and forgiving, you can picture him as that racist uncle you still care about because deep in his heart he’s a 'good person.' Being an idiot excuses you from idiotic actions. Being a clever person acting like an idiot, doesn’t.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Donald Trump's worldview has often been the subject of intense debate - AND NOW HE'S ACTUALLY GOING TO BE THE MOST POWERFUL MAN IN THE WORLD.

Maps are always good for visualisation, and Bulgarian artist Yanko Tsvetkov has made a map of what the world (supposedly) looks like to the Commander-in-Chief-in-waiting.

His ‘global stereotype’ maps became so popular he ended up publishing the satirical images in two books, and most recently an iBooks edition, Atlas of Prejudice: The Complete Stereotype Map Collection.

Well, Tsvetkov struck again, this time with a World Map According to Donald Trump:

And it's a truly beautiful work of art





Tsvetkov incorporated all of Trump's sentiments. Like when he said he'd ban all Muslims from entering the US because they're a security threat...





And that time he implied Mexicans are rapists:

When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.





In a blog post about the map, Tsvetkov wrote:

It’s time to face things as they really are: Trump, for all his potential as a shrewd businessman, actually possesses the mentality of a rural alcoholic whose only experience with political debate starts and ends at a local pub. If you’re a bit more sentimental and forgiving, you can picture him as that racist uncle you still care about because deep in his heart he’s a 'good person.' Being an idiot excuses you from idiotic actions. Being a clever person acting like an idiot, doesn’t.

Map courtesy of Yanko Tsvetkov. You can find more of his work here.

More: Here are the funniest 'global stereotype' maps

More: The stereotype map of Britain's counties, according to Google autocomplete results