Donald Trump inauguration: How to watch and stream the Presidential ceremony online
Donald Trump inauguration: How to watch and stream the Presidential ceremony online
It’s finally here: the day Donald Trump officially becomes the 45th President of the United States. Like much of the world, you’re probably keen to watch the ceremony take place: look no further as we have all the information you need right here. the Inaugural Swearing-In Ceremony will begin at followed by the Inaugural Parade at 15:00 EST (20:00 GMT). A stream of the ceremony is available below, courtesy of The White House’s Youtube account. To watch on TV in the UK, BBC One will be showing the ceremony, coverage starting at 16:00 GMT. Obviously, Donald Trump will take his vows, officially making him President, but that’s not all. Ex-America’s Got Talent contestant Jackie Evancho will sing the national anthem at 5.20 GMT, while the Radio City Rockettes will also perform. Trump Inauguration protests around the World               Trump Inauguration protests around the World       Activists from Greenpeace display a message reading "Mr President, walls divide. Build Bridges!" along the Berlin wall in Berlin on January 20, 2017 to coincide with the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United State   Getty        An activist holds up a sign at the "We Stand United" rally on the eve of US President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration outside Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York on January 19, 2017 in New York   Getty        Protesters burn a U.S. flag and a mock flag with pictures of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump outside the U.S. embassy in metro Manila, Philippines   Getty        Filipino protestors hold placcards during a protest rally in front of the US embassy in Manila, Philippines, 20 January 2017. On the eve of President-elect Donald Trump's inaguration as the 45th president of the United States, Filipinos and Fil-Americans held a protest in front of the US embassy in Manila to denounce the incoming US president.   Getty        Hong Kong police officers and security guards look on as an anarchist protester belonging to the Disrupt J20 movement sits after using a heavy duty D-lock and motorcycle lock to chain himself to a railing at the entrance gate to the Consulate General of the United States of America in Hong Kong to protest the inauguration of United States President-elect Donald Trump, Hong Kong, China, 20 January 2017. Two activists were arrested and taken away by Hong Kong police during the demonstration.   Getty        A banner is unfurled on London's Tower Bridge, organised by Bridges Not Walls - a partnership between grassroots activists and campaigners working on a range of issues, formed in the wake of Donald Trump's election, which aims to build bridges to a world free from hatred and oppression.   Getty        Protesters chain themselves to an entry point prior at the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump in Washington, DC, U.S.   Getty        Bridges Not Walls banner dropped from Molenbeek bridge in Brussels, Belgium, 20 January 2017, in an Greenpeace action part of protests Wolrd protest in solidarity with people in the US, the day  Donald Trump sworn in as the 45th President of the United States.   Getty        A woman holds an anti-U.S. President-elect Donald Trump placard during a rally in Tokyo, Japan,   Getty        A Palestinian protester holds a placard during a demonstration against the construction of Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and against US President-elect Donald Trump, on January 20, 2017, near the settlement of Maale Adumim, east of Jerusalem   Getty        Banners on North Bridge in Edinburgh as part of the Bridges Not Walls protest against US President Donald Trump on the day of his inauguration   Getty        Russian artist Vasily Slonov (L) and his assistant carry a life-sized cutout, which is an artwork created by Slonov and titled "Siberian Inauguration", before its presentation on the occasion of the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, in a street in Krasnoyarsk, Russia   Getty        A woman holds a banner during a march to thank outgoing President Barack Obama and reject US President-elect Donald Trump before his inauguration at a park in Tokyo, Japan, 20 January 2017.   EPA        Palestinian demonstrators protesting this week against a promise by Donald Trump to re-locate the US embassy to Jerusalem   Reuters  Notably, Charlie Brotman, the 89-year-old announcer who has taken part in Presidential Inauguration ceremonies for the last 60 years has been dropped from procedings, leaving Brotman “heartbroken” . Meanwhile, yesterday the “Make America Great Again! Welcome Celebration” took place, with 3 Doors Down, Toby Keith, and various others performing. Here are the five main talking points from that concert. More about: Donald Trump Donald Trump inauguration Comments

It’s finally here: the day Donald Trump officially becomes the 45th President of the United States. Like much of the world, you’re probably keen to watch the ceremony take place: look no further as we have all the information you need right here.

When is the ceremony and how to watch?

the Inaugural Swearing-In Ceremony will begin at 11:30 EST (16:30 GMT) followed by the Inaugural Parade at 15:00 EST (20:00 GMT).

A stream of the ceremony is available below, courtesy of The White House’s Youtube account. To watch on TV in the UK, BBC One will be showing the ceremony, coverage starting at 16:00 GMT.

What’s going to happen?

Obviously, Donald Trump will take his vows, officially making him President, but that’s not all. Ex-America’s Got Talent contestant Jackie Evancho will sing the national anthem at 5.20 GMT, while the Radio City Rockettes will also perform.

Anything else I should know?

Trump Inauguration protests around the World







14 show all Trump Inauguration protests around the World

























1/14 Activists from Greenpeace display a message reading "Mr President, walls divide. Build Bridges!" along the Berlin wall in Berlin on January 20, 2017 to coincide with the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United State Getty

2/14 An activist holds up a sign at the "We Stand United" rally on the eve of US President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration outside Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York on January 19, 2017 in New York Getty

3/14 Protesters burn a U.S. flag and a mock flag with pictures of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump outside the U.S. embassy in metro Manila, Philippines Getty

4/14 Filipino protestors hold placcards during a protest rally in front of the US embassy in Manila, Philippines, 20 January 2017. On the eve of President-elect Donald Trump's inaguration as the 45th president of the United States, Filipinos and Fil-Americans held a protest in front of the US embassy in Manila to denounce the incoming US president. Getty

5/14 Hong Kong police officers and security guards look on as an anarchist protester belonging to the Disrupt J20 movement sits after using a heavy duty D-lock and motorcycle lock to chain himself to a railing at the entrance gate to the Consulate General of the United States of America in Hong Kong to protest the inauguration of United States President-elect Donald Trump, Hong Kong, China, 20 January 2017. Two activists were arrested and taken away by Hong Kong police during the demonstration. Getty

6/14 A banner is unfurled on London's Tower Bridge, organised by Bridges Not Walls - a partnership between grassroots activists and campaigners working on a range of issues, formed in the wake of Donald Trump's election, which aims to build bridges to a world free from hatred and oppression. Getty

7/14 Protesters chain themselves to an entry point prior at the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump in Washington, DC, U.S. Getty

8/14 Bridges Not Walls banner dropped from Molenbeek bridge in Brussels, Belgium, 20 January 2017, in an Greenpeace action part of protests Wolrd protest in solidarity with people in the US, the day Donald Trump sworn in as the 45th President of the United States. Getty

9/14 A woman holds an anti-U.S. President-elect Donald Trump placard during a rally in Tokyo, Japan, Getty

10/14 A Palestinian protester holds a placard during a demonstration against the construction of Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and against US President-elect Donald Trump, on January 20, 2017, near the settlement of Maale Adumim, east of Jerusalem Getty

11/14 Banners on North Bridge in Edinburgh as part of the Bridges Not Walls protest against US President Donald Trump on the day of his inauguration Getty

12/14 Russian artist Vasily Slonov (L) and his assistant carry a life-sized cutout, which is an artwork created by Slonov and titled "Siberian Inauguration", before its presentation on the occasion of the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, in a street in Krasnoyarsk, Russia Getty

13/14 A woman holds a banner during a march to thank outgoing President Barack Obama and reject US President-elect Donald Trump before his inauguration at a park in Tokyo, Japan, 20 January 2017. EPA

14/14 Palestinian demonstrators protesting this week against a promise by Donald Trump to re-locate the US embassy to Jerusalem Reuters

Notably, Charlie Brotman, the 89-year-old announcer who has taken part in Presidential Inauguration ceremonies for the last 60 years has been dropped from procedings, leaving Brotman “heartbroken”.

Meanwhile, yesterday the “Make America Great Again! Welcome Celebration” took place, with 3 Doors Down, Toby Keith, and various others performing. Here are the five main talking points from that concert.