A&E crisis deepens despite drop in numbers attending casualty units
A&E crisis deepens despite drop in numbers attending casualty units 
ew figures show a deepening winter crisis across the NHS with 52 Accident & Emergency departments ordering ambulances to be diverted to other hospitals. The record high comes despite a significant drop in the number of patients arriving at casualty units, following repeated advice to stay away unless need is severe. The figure is almost twice the 27 recorded in the same week last year. And 45 per cent of NHS trusts in England declared a major alert last week as services came under pressure. Sixty-eight trusts out of 152 raised the alarm at least once due to bed shortages and problems managing the flow of patients through A&E. The figure  is a rise on the 65 issued the week before. Overall, NHS hospitals issued 294 operational alerts over the week from January 7 to 13, saying they were experiencing major pressures. Some 27 trusts issued an alert on every single day, while 15 NHS trusts have done so for 11 days in succession. Health officials said the figures could not be directly compared, as they had "toughened" up definitions so that more alerts were included in the latest statistics. Meanwhile bed occupancy continued to rise - despite a drop in A&E visits and in the number of patients admitted as an emergency. The number of A&E attendances dropped to 347,000,  well down from 376,000 the week before. Weekly emergency admissions fell from 90,000 cases to 88,000. It comes as hospitals struggle to cope with rising cases of flu, and norovirus levels which are 75 per cent higher than last year. Figures for the week ending 15 January show 20.3 GP consultations for flu per 100,000 people. The previous week there  were 18.8 cases of flu per 100,000 people, a steep rise from the 12 per 100,000 recorded in the week ending 1 January.  n NHS England spokesman, said:  “Demand moderated somewhat last week, but A&E departments remain under pressure, with flu cases set to increase and norovirus still higher than last year. "As flu increases we would remind the public that if you're otherwise healthy, usually you can manage flu symptoms yourself at home and there's no need to see a GP. Most people feel better within a week." On a single day, January 9th, 61 hospital trusts issued alerts, the highest number since a new system of Operational Pressures Escalation Levels was introduced. Norman Lamb, Liberal Democrat health spokesperson said: “This NHS winter crisis brings bad news day after day and patients are paying the price. “The Government are doing nothing to deal with it. I don’t know how bad the figures need to get for them to actually take action." The figures show 15 NHS trusts have issued such alerts every single day from Jan 3 to Jan 13.  They are: University Hospitals Of North Midlands NHS Trust East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust North Cumbria University Hospitals NHS Trust St Helens And Knowsley Hospitals NHS Trust Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust Dartford And Gravesham NHS Trust East Sussex Healthcare NHS Trust Isle Of Wight NHS Trust Medway NHS Foundation Trust Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust Royal United Hospital Bath NHS Foundation Trust Surrey And Sussex Healthcare NHS Trust Hospital trusts reported bed occupancy levels of 95.8 per cent - up from 94. per cent in the previous week. It comes despite repeated pleas from health officials to reduce capacity to levels of 85 per cent, in order to free beds for the most urgent cases. NHS trust have been ordered to suspend the vast majority of operations for at least a month as hospitals cope with what senior doctors have called the worst winter crisis in the history of the NHS. An NHS Improvement spokesperson said: “Despite dealing with record demand, compounded by high numbers of people with flu or vomiting, staff within the NHS are pulling out all the stops to provide the public with quick access to the highest quality care possible. “Even at this busy time for the NHS, almost nine out of ten patients who turn up to A&E departments are seen within four hours. “The NHS needs everyone to play their part by using alternatives to A&E departments where appropriate. This includes GP services, NHS 111 and local pharmacies.” Separate data suggests that almost every hospital in the UK is dangerously short of nurses. Staff said patients were being left unwashed, unmonitored and without crucial medications, amid a worsening crisis in the country’s hospitals. The analysis by Health Service Journal show 96 per cent of acute hospitals failed to provide the planned number of registered nurses to cover day shifts in October - the worst performance since analysis began in 2014. Nurses said they were working in “ desperately unsafe ” circumstances, with one saying she felt “sick to the stomach” at the risks being posed. The analysis by Health Service Journal tracked NHS data from 2014/15 to 2016/17. In total, 214 of 224 acute hospitals failed to fully fill their day shifts last October- a rate of 96 per cent - while while 190 (85 per cent) were understaffed at night.  Both figures are the worst since tracking began in 2014. Nurses said they were being reduced to tears regularly, with one describing an “overwhelming feeling of sadness” at failing to deliver the care patients deserved. ne working in the south west of England said: "The most patients I have ever had is 16 on a night shift, I know for a fact that I did not do all the observations and can only hope that I did not cause anyone any real harm." Another said: "Corners are cut and safety is compromised daily, we just do a really good job of covering it up”. An incident report disclosed one nurse left looking after 24 patients during 2015. The short-staffing left patients without care and medication, as unhappy relatives pleaded for help.  ne of England’s most senior nurses said the pressures the NHS was under were the worst she had ever experienced. Ruth May, executive director at NHS Improvement - the health service watchdog -  said: “We all know the NHS is dealing with intense pressure at the moment. It’s the toughest I have ever seen it.” Janet Davies, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: “This is yet more evidence that there are too few nurses caring for patients, putting people at serious risk. “There are already at least 24,000 nursing vacancies in the UK and it’s getting worse every single day.” The new figures also suggest healthcare assistants are routinely being employed to stand in for nurses.  Research published in November found that patients are a fifth more likely to die in hospitals where nurses are replaced with less-qualified staff. A Department of Health spokesman said: "We expect all parts of the NHS to make sure they have the right staff, in the right place, at the right time to provide safe care — that's why there are already almost 26,000 extra clinical staff, including almost 11,400 additional doctors and over 11,200 additional nurses on our wards since May 2010.” Dewsbury and District Hospital 75% Pontefract General Infirmary 77% Princess Alexandra Hospital, Harlow 77% University Hospital of North Tees 77% Royal Albert Edward infirmary, Wigan 79%

New figures show a deepening winter crisis across the NHS with 52 Accident & Emergency departments ordering ambulances to be diverted to other hospitals.

The record high comes despite a significant drop in the number of patients arriving at casualty units, following repeated advice to stay away unless need is severe.

The figure is almost twice the 27 recorded in the same week last year.

And 45 per cent of NHS trusts in England declared a major alert last week as services came under pressure.

Sixty-eight trusts out of 152 raised the alarm at least once due to bed shortages and problems managing the flow of patients through A&E.

The figure is a rise on the 65 issued the week before.

Overall, NHS hospitals issued 294 operational alerts over the week from January 7 to 13, saying they were experiencing major pressures.

Some 27 trusts issued an alert on every single day, while 15 NHS trusts have done so for 11 days in succession.

Health officials said the figures could not be directly compared, as they had "toughened" up definitions so that more alerts were included in the latest statistics.

Meanwhile bed occupancy continued to rise - despite a drop in A&E visits and in the number of patients admitted as an emergency.

The number of A&E attendances dropped to 347,000, well down from 376,000 the week before.

Weekly emergency admissions fell from 90,000 cases to 88,000.

It comes as hospitals struggle to cope with rising cases of flu, and norovirus levels which are 75 per cent higher than last year.

Figures for the week ending 15 January show 20.3 GP consultations for flu per 100,000 people.

The previous week there were 18.8 cases of flu per 100,000 people, a steep rise from the 12 per 100,000 recorded in the week ending 1 January.