This Is What 100 Years Of Women’s Protest Looks Like In The US
This Is What 100 Years Of Women's Protest Looks Like In The US
Dr. Anna Shaw and Carrie Chapman Catt, founder of the League of Women Voters, lead an estimated 20,000 supporters in a women’s suffrage march on New York’s Fifth Avenue in 1915. Suffragette Lucy Branham speaks at a rally in Washington, DC, circa 1919. Suffragettes hold a jubilee celebrating their victory. Melanie Lowenthal, who was one of the leaders of the demonstration, celebrates the dawn of political equality in 1920. Women in Chicago being arrested for wearing one-piece bathing suits without the required leg coverings, in 1922. Women in Boston carry signs protesting the employment of prosperous married women, who they claimed had many of the high-salaried jobs in the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, 1935. Members of the Women’s Organization to War on Styles picket a dress shop in Berkeley, California, on Aug. 23, 1947, in protest of longer skirts and padded hips. Educator and civil rights activist Mary McLeod Bethune and former leader of the National Association of Colored Women (and daughter of former slaves) Mary Church Terrell sit for a portrait with a large crowd of supporters on Nov. 23, 1947. Claudia Jones and Betty Gannett smile in a prison van after being indicted for advocating the overthrow of the US government by force, on July 17, 1951. Rosa Parks is fingerprinted after her refusal to move to the back of a bus to accommodate a white passenger launched a bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, 1956. Women are forcibly carried to a patrol wagon during a demonstration in New York City, 1963. Young women clap and sing along to a freedom song between speeches at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on Aug. 28, 1963. Women march in support of the Black Panther Party in New Haven, Connecticut, in November 1969. Women demonstrate on Liberty Island in support of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment on Aug. 10, 1970. The demonstration was to show support for the proposed equal rights amendment. Women march in a large parade down New York’s Fifth Avenue in 1970, on the 50th anniversary of the passage of the 19th Amendment. Women march up New York’s Fifth Avenue during a demonstration for women’s rights on Aug. 26, 1971. Women march up New York’s Fifth Avenue during a demonstration for women’s rights on Aug. 26, 1971. A woman stands on a corner protesting unequal pay for women in Cincinnati, circa 1971. Young men and women gather at a park in Pittsburgh to demonstrate for reproductive rights in 1974. Older women gather at a demonstration in Pittsburgh in support of the Equal Rights Amendment in 1976. Leaders of the women’s movement pass a torch that was carried by foot from New York to Houston for the November 1977 National Women’s Conference. Among the marchers are tennis star Billie Jean King, in a blue shirt and tan pants; former US Congresswoman Bella Abzug, wearing her trademark hat; and feminist writer Betty Friedan, in a red coat. A group of feminists chained themselves together outside the Illinois Senate in Springfield to show support for the ratification of the ERA on June 3, 1982. Two women embrace during the pride parade in New York City in June 1982. Protesters hold signs at the March for Women’s Lives in Washington, DC, on March 9, 1986. Abortion rights advocates take part in the March for Women’s Equality in Washington, DC, on April 9, 1989. Women wear signs and masks during an abortion rights march in Washington, DC, in 1992. Demonstrators celebrate their womanhood and sexuality at the March on Washington for Lesbian, Gay, and Bi Equal Rights and Liberation on April 25, 1993. Tens of thousands of people gather on the National Mall in Washington, DC, for a rally and march which focused on protecting women’s reproductive rights, on April 25, 2004. A pro–abortion rights marcher confronts an anti–abortion rights protester at the March for Women’s Lives in Washington, DC, on April 25, 2004. Iraqi civil engineer Faiza al-Araji takes part in a demonstration against the war in Iraq, organized by the women’s anti-war group Code Pink, on March 8, 2006. Couple Shelly Bailes, left, and Ellen Pontac react after hearing that California’s Supreme Court upheld a ban on same-sex marriage in San Francisco on May 26, 2009. The Correctional Association of New York’s Women in Prison Project, New York Civil Liberties Union, and Women on the Rise Telling HerStory hold a protest in front of Gov. David Paterson’s office in New York to call on the governor to sign the Anti-Shackling Bill. On Aug. 26, 2009, Paterson signed into law a bill that largely bans the use of restraints on inmates during childbirth, making New York the sixth state in the country to do so. Veteran Evelyn Thomas is arrested at the White House after handcuffing herself to a fence in protest of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy on Nov. 15, 2010. Feminist leaders and activists hold a protest in front of the International Monetary Fund Headquarters demanding that IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn be removed from his post in Washington, DC, on May 18, 2011. Two women kiss outside the Supreme Court in front of anti-gay protesters from the Westboro Baptist Church as hundreds of marriage equality supporters and protesters crowd the sidewalk before oral arguments in the case on March 27, 2013. Members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, dressed as the 22 founders who participated in the women’s suffrage march of 1913, retrace the footsteps of their founders in Washington, DC, on March 3, 2013. Actor Logan Browning joins demonstrators protesting against police violence, including the chokehold death of unarmed black man Eric Garner in New York, as they march in 2015. Margot Riphagen, of New Orleans, wears a birth control costume as she protests in front of the Supreme Court in Washington, DC, in 2015, while the court hears oral arguments in the challenges of President Barack Obama’s health care law requirement that businesses provide their female employees with health insurance that includes access to contraceptives. Women participate in the GoTopless Pride Parade in New York on Aug. 23, 2015. The GoTopless group fights for women to have the same constitutional right that men have to go topless in public. A participant holds a sign during the 2nd Annual Amber Rose SlutWalk Festival in Los Angeles on Oct. 1, 2016. The event seeks to end slut-shaming, victim-blaming, and sexual assaults. The #GOPHandsOffMe movement returns for its third wave of protests across the country on Nov. 3, 2016. In New York City, they formed a wall of women outside Trump Tower, sending a clear message that women of color will defeat Trump and the GOP’s politics of racism and misogyny.   No Surprises: Pick A Disney Princess, Villain, And...    18 Times Leslie Knope And Ann Perkin's Friendship Made...

Yanina Manolova / AP

The Correctional Association of New York’s Women in Prison Project, New York Civil Liberties Union, and Women on the Rise Telling HerStory hold a protest in front of Gov. David Paterson’s office in New York to call on the governor to sign the Anti-Shackling Bill. On Aug. 26, 2009, Paterson signed into law a bill that largely bans the use of restraints on inmates during childbirth, making New York the sixth state in the country to do so.