Angie Martinez to Develop TV Projects With Endemol Shine
Angie Martinez to Develop TV Projects With Endemol Shine
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Angie Martinez to Develop TV Projects With Endemol Shine  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The popular radio personality will pursue both unscripted and scripted projects. Angie Martinez is looking beyond radio. The popular host, no stranger to commuters in New York and Miami, has signed her first development deal. Martinez has entered into a pact with Endemol Shine North America, where she'll develop TV projects, both scripted and unscripted, for traditional and digital platforms. "Working with Endemol Shine is an exciting first step for me in defining the next phase of my career," said Martinez. "I'm looking forward to using my voice and platform to develop content that authentically speaks to the culture."  On the radio for more than 20 years, Martinez is no stranger to TV. She's a fixture on the daytime talk-show circuit and, last year, released her first memoir, which became a New York Times best-seller. Martinez will pursue TV projects under the Endemol Shine shingle Major TV. "Angie is undeniably one of the most influential personalities in pop culture," said Endemol Shine North America president Cris Abrego. "We're thrilled to be in business with her, and we're already developing a handful of original, ground-breaking projects with Angie and the team at Major TV." This story originally appeared on .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The Voice of New York on Power 105.1 Angie Martinez attends as 5th Annual Dove Self-Esteem Weekend kicks-off at the United Nations on October 9, 2014 in New York City. Â (Photo by

The popular radio personality will pursue both unscripted and scripted projects.

Angie Martinez is looking beyond radio. The popular host, no stranger to commuters in New York and Miami, has signed her first development deal.

Martinez has entered into a pact with Endemol Shine North America, where she'll develop TV projects, both scripted and unscripted, for traditional and digital platforms.

"Working with Endemol Shine is an exciting first step for me in defining the next phase of my career," said Martinez. "I'm looking forward to using my voice and platform to develop content that authentically speaks to the culture."

On the radio for more than 20 years, Martinez is no stranger to TV. She's a fixture on the daytime talk-show circuit and, last year, released her first memoir, which became a New York Times best-seller.

Martinez will pursue TV projects under the Endemol Shine shingle Major TV.

"Angie is undeniably one of the most influential personalities in pop culture," said Endemol Shine North America president Cris Abrego. "We're thrilled to be in business with her, and we're already developing a handful of original, ground-breaking projects with Angie and the team at Major TV."



This story originally appeared on The Hollywood Reporter.