Why 5 Trump Voters Are Going to the Inauguration
Why 5 Trump Voters Are Going to the Inauguration
Why 5 Trump Voters Are Going to the Inauguration By Sabrina Tavernise What is it about President-elect Donald J. Trump that appeals to so many Americans? Here are the views of five people who voted for him. They responded to a query that The New York Times sent out last week asking to hear from people going to the inauguration . They are from very different backgrounds and geography. One is a native of Minneapolis, now working at a tech start-up in Mountain View, Calif. Another is a gay man from Massachusetts. But they are all glad he won. They say they are waiting to see how he governs before drawing any conclusions. Bryce Youngquist 34, works at a small tech start-up in Mountain View, Calif. He is from Minneapolis. Mr. Youngquist flew to Washington from California this week and was walking around the capital on Thursday with a friend, taking in the sights and watching as the police put up metal barricades. “When he started running, it felt like a joke. I got a T-shirt and hat. I thought, years from now, it will be amazing to have these. He said some very outlandish things, but the root of what he was saying, I could see the point he was trying to make. None of the other guys really spoke to me. “I consider myself a Republican, but I was never really that political. I didn’t take Trump that seriously. But in some ways I did connect with him. It was definitely a process for me. “We knew what we were getting with Hillary. She’d be an extension of Obama. I voted for Romney. If Romney had had a little more spine, like Trump, he would have been a lot more successful. Now Trump is the leader of this country. He makes people cringe, but I don’t mind that. We need a tough guy up there. “I don’t think he is as bad as the media portrays him. I am waiting for him to be in office to see what he does. If he makes awful decisions, I won’t support him. “The staunch Hillary supporters could never admit she was a flawed candidate. They saw her as a saint. That drove me to Trump even more.” Sheree S. Rudd 62, real estate broker in Fairview, Tenn., outside Nashville A sitter was coming to stay with Ms. Rudd’s two cockapoo dogs and her cat, and she and her fiancé set off driving to Washington on Tuesday night. She voted for Mr. Trump and even sent him a check during the campaign. Her father, who died in 1998, was a Democrat. “Trump reminds me of my daddy in a way. He would tell it like it is. He was bold. He was very colorful. He played steel guitar. Even acted in several movies. My daddy would just fill a room with his personality. He was funny. He had this sense of humor. Much like Donald Trump. “He’s always kind of been interesting to me. When this election started, he was saying what I was thinking. No one else had the guts to say it. Sometimes I cringed. Like when he said ‘nasty woman’ about Hillary. I thought: ‘Donald, don’t say that. You should have some manners.’ But then on the other hand, it was a little funny. My daddy might have said something just like that. “I’m thinking this guy is coming straight out of nowhere, going to jump in here real quick and then get out. I myself was a highway commissioner. I lived on this road. It was so horrible. All the neighbors hated it. The road department would not maintain it. I’d go to the road department meetings. There were all these guys sitting around in John Deere hats laughing me out of the room because I was a woman. Well, election time came up, and I thought why not. I won in a landslide. I had a four-year term. It was a paid position, through county government. I was the only woman ever on the road board at that point, as far as I know. I said, heck, I’m gonna get this road fixed. And I got it fixed. People would stop me on the street and say, ‘Lady, I don’t know you, but thank you for that road.’ So I’m seeing Donald Trump being a total outsider. He’s got the confidence and the guts to go in there and get it done. And get out quick.” John Paul Moran 49, marketing company owner in Boston Mr. Moran was flying to Washington on Thursday from Boston to attend the inauguration. He would be meeting up with some other Trump supporters from Massachusetts. “I’ve supported Republicans for years. I’m also gay. That puts me in a unique situation. It goes against the grain of what we’re told by liberals we’re supposed to believe. “Donald Trump has been more pro-gay than Hillary. She was against gay marriage until the math showed it would help her with votes. He called Islamic terrorism for what it is, and no one was willing to do that. He is the ultimate outsider in a very broken system. “He’s the kind of president that our founding fathers intended — someone who stepped away from his professional life to serve the country. Not someone who has had a lifelong career in politics. “Decades of handouts from the government have only hurt the poor. The belief that our government is our salvation is not what our founding fathers intended. I really believed that Obama and his policies would bring people together. But they didn’t. I tried to watch his speech and I just laughed. Obama just doesn’t get it. “Conservatives have been doing a terrible job connecting with young people. It might be a short window for Trump and conservatives to get their points across if they don’t do more to attract younger people. This could be a last stand.” Mallory Farrar 26, of Huntington Beach, Calif., works for a hotel in Orange County. Ms. Farrar is going to Washington for the inauguration with her parents and her brother. It will be her first visit to the capital. “I voted for Trump because I liked the idea of a radical shake-up and change. He is going into a pretty broken system of politics, and something crazy might be needed. “I heard someone describe it that Trump is like chemotherapy. Sometimes a little poison can be good to cure the broader disease. I’m a moderate Republican in fiscal matters, but I’m liberal on cultural matters like gay marriage. My gay friends have just as much right to get married as I do. I grew up in a moderately conservative home. But it was a household that embraces diversity. I went to a small private Christian liberal arts college. “I woke up to some unpleasant Facebook notifications — people questioning why I’m going to the inauguration. I respect people going to protest Trump, just as I respect people cheering and celebrating. The respect for one another is so important. If we truly are the United States of America, we need to respect that diversity of opinion and embrace it, rather than let that be a negative thing that divides us.” Langston Bowens 21, a student at the University of New Mexico, majoring in economics and international studies. He is from Detroit. Mr. Bowens is the co-host of a show on a Fox News Radio affiliate in Albuquerque. He ran Marco Rubio’s national student grass-roots campaign as a volunteer. He eventually switched to supporting Mr. Trump. “I was on the ‘Never Trump’ train. But one of my closest friends said, ‘Listen, just go to a rally.’ He didn’t give any argument. He just said go. “So I went to one. And I did a total 180. It was like professional wrestling. You think, oh, wrestling is dumb, you know it’s fake when you watch it on TV. But when you go, you suddenly feel this whole vibe. He’s interacting with the crowd. They’re chanting stuff. He’s saying, ‘I love you, too, you beautiful people.’ “It’s like sales. I worked in car sales. In sales, you are not weaving a lie, but you show part of the picture, in order to connect with the person you are talking to. Trump is like that. The drain the swamp thing. He tried it out as a line. The crowd responded well, so he said it again and again. It was a sales tactic he used to get the crowd involved. I thought there was a mutual understanding on all sides that this was only rhetoric. To have some fun. “I’m very conscious of race. I believe that there is significant police brutality against blacks. I believe my community is suffering. But I believe people are confusing nationalism with racism. I think people are misunderstanding what Trump is saying. It feels racist, but it’s not. “Limiting Muslim immigration. It’s discriminatory, but it’s not racist. It waters down the word racist. There are real racists out there. There are real people who think our race is inferior and wouldn’t hire us. But when we talk about racism all the time like this, it diminishes the weight of that word. “I think it’s less that Hillary was a woman and more that Trump was an alpha male. Men just pulled more for the alpha male personality than the Type A female. “I have a Trump flag that I keep in my office and a MAGA hat. I just decided to put a sticker on my car. It’s a Chevy Malibu. I didn’t want to put the sticker on before the election, because I didn’t want it to get keyed.”

Why 5 Trump Voters Are Going to the Inauguration

What is it about President-elect Donald J. Trump that appeals to so many Americans?

Here are the views of five people who voted for him. They responded to a query that The New York Times sent out last week asking to hear from people going to the inauguration. They are from very different backgrounds and geography.

One is a native of Minneapolis, now working at a tech start-up in Mountain View, Calif. Another is a gay man from Massachusetts. But they are all glad he won. They say they are waiting to see how he governs before drawing any conclusions.

These interviews have been condensed.

Bryce Youngquist

34, works at a small tech start-up in Mountain View, Calif. He is from Minneapolis.

Image

Mr. Youngquist flew to Washington from California this week and was walking around the capital on Thursday with a friend, taking in the sights and watching as the police put up metal barricades.

“When he started running, it felt like a joke. I got a T-shirt and hat. I thought, years from now, it will be amazing to have these. He said some very outlandish things, but the root of what he was saying, I could see the point he was trying to make. None of the other guys really spoke to me.

“I consider myself a Republican, but I was never really that political. I didn’t take Trump that seriously. But in some ways I did connect with him. It was definitely a process for me.

“We knew what we were getting with Hillary. She’d be an extension of Obama. I voted for Romney. If Romney had had a little more spine, like Trump, he would have been a lot more successful. Now Trump is the leader of this country. He makes people cringe, but I don’t mind that. We need a tough guy up there.

“I don’t think he is as bad as the media portrays him. I am waiting for him to be in office to see what he does. If he makes awful decisions, I won’t support him.

“The staunch Hillary supporters could never admit she was a flawed candidate. They saw her as a saint. That drove me to Trump even more.”

Sheree S. Rudd

62, real estate broker in Fairview, Tenn., outside Nashville

Image

A sitter was coming to stay with Ms. Rudd’s two cockapoo dogs and her cat, and she and her fiancé set off driving to Washington on Tuesday night. She voted for Mr. Trump and even sent him a check during the campaign. Her father, who died in 1998, was a Democrat.

“Trump reminds me of my daddy in a way. He would tell it like it is. He was bold. He was very colorful. He played steel guitar. Even acted in several movies. My daddy would just fill a room with his personality. He was funny. He had this sense of humor. Much like Donald Trump.

“He’s always kind of been interesting to me. When this election started, he was saying what I was thinking. No one else had the guts to say it. Sometimes I cringed. Like when he said ‘nasty woman’ about Hillary. I thought: ‘Donald, don’t say that. You should have some manners.’ But then on the other hand, it was a little funny. My daddy might have said something just like that.

“I’m thinking this guy is coming straight out of nowhere, going to jump in here real quick and then get out. I myself was a highway commissioner. I lived on this road. It was so horrible. All the neighbors hated it. The road department would not maintain it. I’d go to the road department meetings. There were all these guys sitting around in John Deere hats laughing me out of the room because I was a woman. Well, election time came up, and I thought why not. I won in a landslide. I had a four-year term. It was a paid position, through county government. I was the only woman ever on the road board at that point, as far as I know. I said, heck, I’m gonna get this road fixed. And I got it fixed. People would stop me on the street and say, ‘Lady, I don’t know you, but thank you for that road.’ So I’m seeing Donald Trump being a total outsider. He’s got the confidence and the guts to go in there and get it done. And get out quick.”

John Paul Moran

49, marketing company owner in Boston

Image

Mr. Moran was flying to Washington on Thursday from Boston to attend the inauguration. He would be meeting up with some other Trump supporters from Massachusetts.

“I’ve supported Republicans for years. I’m also gay. That puts me in a unique situation. It goes against the grain of what we’re told by liberals we’re supposed to believe.

“Donald Trump has been more pro-gay than Hillary. She was against gay marriage until the math showed it would help her with votes. He called Islamic terrorism for what it is, and no one was willing to do that. He is the ultimate outsider in a very broken system.

“He’s the kind of president that our founding fathers intended — someone who stepped away from his professional life to serve the country. Not someone who has had a lifelong career in politics.

“Decades of handouts from the government have only hurt the poor. The belief that our government is our salvation is not what our founding fathers intended. I really believed that Obama and his policies would bring people together. But they didn’t. I tried to watch his speech and I just laughed. Obama just doesn’t get it.

“Conservatives have been doing a terrible job connecting with young people. It might be a short window for Trump and conservatives to get their points across if they don’t do more to attract younger people. This could be a last stand.”

Mallory Farrar

26, of Huntington Beach, Calif., works for a hotel in Orange County.

Image

Ms. Farrar is going to Washington for the inauguration with her parents and her brother. It will be her first visit to the capital.

“I voted for Trump because I liked the idea of a radical shake-up and change. He is going into a pretty broken system of politics, and something crazy might be needed.

“I heard someone describe it that Trump is like chemotherapy. Sometimes a little poison can be good to cure the broader disease. I’m a moderate Republican in fiscal matters, but I’m liberal on cultural matters like gay marriage. My gay friends have just as much right to get married as I do. I grew up in a moderately conservative home. But it was a household that embraces diversity. I went to a small private Christian liberal arts college.

“I woke up to some unpleasant Facebook notifications — people questioning why I’m going to the inauguration. I respect people going to protest Trump, just as I respect people cheering and celebrating. The respect for one another is so important. If we truly are the United States of America, we need to respect that diversity of opinion and embrace it, rather than let that be a negative thing that divides us.”

Langston Bowens

21, a student at the University of New Mexico, majoring in economics and international studies. He is from Detroit.

Image

Mr. Bowens is the co-host of a show on a Fox News Radio affiliate in Albuquerque. He ran Marco Rubio’s national student grass-roots campaign as a volunteer. He eventually switched to supporting Mr. Trump.

“I was on the ‘Never Trump’ train. But one of my closest friends said, ‘Listen, just go to a rally.’ He didn’t give any argument. He just said go.

“So I went to one. And I did a total 180. It was like professional wrestling. You think, oh, wrestling is dumb, you know it’s fake when you watch it on TV. But when you go, you suddenly feel this whole vibe. He’s interacting with the crowd. They’re chanting stuff. He’s saying, ‘I love you, too, you beautiful people.’

“It’s like sales. I worked in car sales. In sales, you are not weaving a lie, but you show part of the picture, in order to connect with the person you are talking to. Trump is like that. The drain the swamp thing. He tried it out as a line. The crowd responded well, so he said it again and again. It was a sales tactic he used to get the crowd involved. I thought there was a mutual understanding on all sides that this was only rhetoric. To have some fun.

“I’m very conscious of race. I believe that there is significant police brutality against blacks. I believe my community is suffering. But I believe people are confusing nationalism with racism. I think people are misunderstanding what Trump is saying. It feels racist, but it’s not.

“Limiting Muslim immigration. It’s discriminatory, but it’s not racist. It waters down the word racist. There are real racists out there. There are real people who think our race is inferior and wouldn’t hire us. But when we talk about racism all the time like this, it diminishes the weight of that word.

“I think it’s less that Hillary was a woman and more that Trump was an alpha male. Men just pulled more for the alpha male personality than the Type A female.

“I have a Trump flag that I keep in my office and a MAGA hat. I just decided to put a sticker on my car. It’s a Chevy Malibu. I didn’t want to put the sticker on before the election, because I didn’t want it to get keyed.”