Dangerous Game: can a Calum Best vehicle with Darren Day as a Russian mob boss really exist?

I need your help. I’ve just watched a trailer for a film called Dangerous Game, and I think someone might be having me on. Ostensibly, Dangerous Game is a British crime thriller due out this summer, but I can’t shake the suspicion that the film doesn’t actually exist, and this trailer has been precision engineered specifically to send me – and me alone – to the point of gibbering meltdown. I mean, it can’t be real. It just can’t. Remember in Point Break , where the antagonists managed to satirise the concept of global capitalism by robbing banks dressed as old presidents? Well, in Dangerous Game, some robbers knock off a shoe shop while dressed as latter-period Gary Lineker . That’s probably satirical, isn’t it? It has to be. Oh, screw it, here’s the entire plot of Dangerous Game: a premiership footballer gets in trouble with the Russian mafia, and is forced to throw games and – for some inexplicable reason – rob some shoe shops. There. That’s it. Now we can concentrate on more important things, such as the fact that the lead role is played by Calum Best, a man most famous for being on Celebrity Big Brother twice. “You know what they say,” Best grunts 22 seconds into the trailer. “A friend helps you move, but a true friend helps you move a dead body.” No they don’t, Calum. Nobody says that. I just Googled “A friend helps you move, but a true friend helps you move a dead body”. It had only two results, and both of those came from a Teen Wolf fan fiction forum . One member of the Russian mafia is a psychotic bitch. We know this because a character says, “Let me go, you psychotic bitch.” Incidentally – and I promise I’m not making this up – I just Googled: “Let me go, you psychotic bitch.” There were only six results, and one of them came from a Teen Wolf fan fiction site . Do you see what I mean? This cannot possibly be a real film. It’s a joke trailer, made after a day of farming Teen Wolf fan fiction sites for dialogue. It has to be. Also, Darren Day plays a Russian mob boss. I mean, I’m not being paranoid, am I? This is supposedly a film where Calum Best dresses up as Gary Lineker and robs a shoe shop at the behest of Darren Day, while exclusively talking in lines from Teen Wolf fan fiction sites, and the robberies end up being covered by a confused and constipated-looking newsreader reporting from what appears to be the set of one of those adverts that use fake newsrooms to tell you how nice a specific brand of dog food is. Someone is pulling my leg here, and I can’t say I appreciate it. OK, you’ve shown your hand a little too much here, Dangerous Game. Sure, I was on the fence for a while, but then you went and included a scene in which a woman from the MTV reality show Ex on the Beach turns to former Nuts TV presenter Lucy Pinder and says: “Is this seriously happening?” That’s a little too on the nose for my liking. Also, I Googled “Is this seriously happening?” and – guess what – one of the results comes from a Teen Wolf fan fiction site called Wolfmanji . Just to underline how unstoppably fake this trailer is, here’s Alex Reid. So that means Alex Reid , Darren Day, Calum Best, Lucy Pinder and a woman from Ex on the Beach were all considered to be the best actors for their respective parts, along with Chris Kamara, Darren Day’s wife, two people from from Towie, an impressionist from the seventh series of Britain’s Got Talent, a number of cast members from a film called Gangsters Gamblers Geezers and a man called Shizzio. This film does not exist. It just cannot possibly exist. Oh, and the trailer ends with a shout-out to Calum Best’s Twitter page, which seems unprofessional to the point of stupidity. Nice try, Dangerous Game, but you’re not fooling anyone. Especially since you almost definitely took your title from another Teen Wolf fan fiction page . Topics  Alex Reid

I need your help. I’ve just watched a trailer for a film called Dangerous Game, and I think someone might be having me on.

Ostensibly, Dangerous Game is a British crime thriller due out this summer, but I can’t shake the suspicion that the film doesn’t actually exist, and this trailer has been precision engineered specifically to send me – and me alone – to the point of gibbering meltdown. I mean, it can’t be real. It just can’t.

Remember in Point Break, where the antagonists managed to satirise the concept of global capitalism by robbing banks dressed as old presidents? Well, in Dangerous Game, some robbers knock off a shoe shop while dressed as latter-period Gary Lineker. That’s probably satirical, isn’t it? It has to be.

Oh, screw it, here’s the entire plot of Dangerous Game: a premiership footballer gets in trouble with the Russian mafia, and is forced to throw games and – for some inexplicable reason – rob some shoe shops. There. That’s it. Now we can concentrate on more important things, such as the fact that the lead role is played by Calum Best, a man most famous for being on Celebrity Big Brother twice.

“You know what they say,” Best grunts 22 seconds into the trailer. “A friend helps you move, but a true friend helps you move a dead body.” No they don’t, Calum. Nobody says that. I just Googled “A friend helps you move, but a true friend helps you move a dead body”. It had only two results, and both of those came from a Teen Wolf fan fiction forum.

One member of the Russian mafia is a psychotic bitch. We know this because a character says, “Let me go, you psychotic bitch.” Incidentally – and I promise I’m not making this up – I just Googled: “Let me go, you psychotic bitch.” There were only six results, and one of them came from a Teen Wolf fan fiction site. Do you see what I mean? This cannot possibly be a real film. It’s a joke trailer, made after a day of farming Teen Wolf fan fiction sites for dialogue. It has to be.

Also, Darren Day plays a Russian mob boss.

I mean, I’m not being paranoid, am I? This is supposedly a film where Calum Best dresses up as Gary Lineker and robs a shoe shop at the behest of Darren Day, while exclusively talking in lines from Teen Wolf fan fiction sites, and the robberies end up being covered by a confused and constipated-looking newsreader reporting from what appears to be the set of one of those adverts that use fake newsrooms to tell you how nice a specific brand of dog food is. Someone is pulling my leg here, and I can’t say I appreciate it.

OK, you’ve shown your hand a little too much here, Dangerous Game. Sure, I was on the fence for a while, but then you went and included a scene in which a woman from the MTV reality show Ex on the Beach turns to former Nuts TV presenter Lucy Pinder and says: “Is this seriously happening?” That’s a little too on the nose for my liking. Also, I Googled “Is this seriously happening?” and – guess what – one of the results comes from a Teen Wolf fan fiction site called Wolfmanji.

Just to underline how unstoppably fake this trailer is, here’s Alex Reid. So that means Alex Reid, Darren Day, Calum Best, Lucy Pinder and a woman from Ex on the Beach were all considered to be the best actors for their respective parts, along with Chris Kamara, Darren Day’s wife, two people from from Towie, an impressionist from the seventh series of Britain’s Got Talent, a number of cast members from a film called Gangsters Gamblers Geezers and a man called Shizzio. This film does not exist. It just cannot possibly exist.

Oh, and the trailer ends with a shout-out to Calum Best’s Twitter page, which seems unprofessional to the point of stupidity. Nice try, Dangerous Game, but you’re not fooling anyone. Especially since you almost definitely took your title from another Teen Wolf fan fiction page.