Face-planting panda cub Fushun creates havoc again
Face-planting panda cub Fushun creates havoc again at a panda party


He might be the naughtiest panda in the world.

Fushun the cub, which melted the world's hearts with his face-plant last year, has caused trouble again at a panda party.

The six-month-old bear wouldn't stay still as his keeper Mei Yan tried to present him to the public at China's Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda today.

Scroll down for video

Put me down! Fushun wouldn't remain still at a panda party today held by the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda

Stop it! At one point, the naughty cub tried to bully a panda next to him. A keeper had to grab Fushun's paws to prevent it

Head first dive! Fushun rose to global fame when he tumbled off the stage to the ground during an event last September

Fushun met the public along with 22 other panda cubs in the event held to celebrate the upcoming Chinese New Year, which will arrive on January 28, reported People's Daily Online.

All of the bears were born in 2016 at the breeding centre, which is situated in the capital city of south-west China's Sichuan Province.

While the other cubs sat relatively still in their keepers' arms, Fushun kept wiggling his body and waving his limbs. His keeper, Mei Yan, had trouble carrying the mischievous bear, which weighs 10.2kg (22.5 pounds).

At one point, Fushun tried to bully a panda next to him. The other panda's keeper had to grab Fushun's paws to stop him from moving around.

I'm here! Fushun the panda, held by bespectacled keeper Mei Yan, waved his paw to the camera at the event today

Happy Lunar New Year! A total of 23 cubs, including Fushun, met the public and celebrated the upcoming Chinese New Year

Let's be friends! Two panda cubs bonded with each other as their keepers held them in their arms during the event

How are you today? All of the bears were born in 2016 at the breeding centre in Chengdu, capital of China's Sichuan Province

Say cheese! Giant panda cubs and their keepers attended the event as they wished the Chinese public a happy new year

Fushun was born at the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda on July 14, 2016, weighing 175.2 grams (6.1 ounces). He is the son of nine-year-old panda Qifu and has a younger twin sister.

Fushun's name means 'fortune and smooth' in Chinese while his sister's name, Fulai, means 'fortune comes'.

The little panda rose to global fame last September when it was two months old.

This is not going to end well: Another playful cub tried to crawl over its keeper shoulder when it was presented to the public

Successful: Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda has bred 243 cubs, with 176 surviving, since its founding in 1987

The panda cub stole the show at a presentation at the breeding centre after it tumbled from the stage it was on and face-planted to the ground.

The presentation was held for the centre to showcase 27 newborn cubs to the public.

A video footage of the event showed that all cuddly cubs lying on a green stage at the panda base in Chengdu. Most of them seemed to be behaving themselves.

Not such a good idea: Fushun the panda landed right on its head after it decided to make an escape during an event last year

Curious: Fushun gained fans from around the world after he tried to escape from a stage before falling down head first

Now that's a surprised face: 27 panda cubs were shown off to the public last September as he made the mischievous escape

However, Fushun, which was on the left hand side of the stage, seemed to have other ideas. He was seen making a giant leap for the grass below the stage.

The panda appeared to land on its head with its legs up in the air.

A keeper could be seen running after the cub to try and catch it.

The picture showing the exact moment Fushun fell to the ground was selected by Reuters as one of the best pictures of 2016.

Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda has the world's largest artificial breeding population of captive giant pandas. Founded in 1987, the centre has bred 243 cubs, with 176 surviving.