Inauguration by the numbers: Rockettes, White House records and weed
Inauguration by the numbers: Rockettes, White House records and weed
On Jan. 20, the United States will host its 58th inauguration ceremony to swear in the country’s 45th president: Donald Trump. Since George Washington’s first inaugural in 1789, the quadrennial tradition has changed cities and added a parade, a luncheon and a number of celebratory balls. The event this year is also expected to draw demonstrators by the thousands to the nation’s capital, adding another layer to the weekend’s festivities. Here are some important numbers to know as we approach the transition of power from President Obama to President-elect Trump. The number of military personnel that will be providing security and support for the inauguration. Per the Military Times , this will include troops in ceremonial roles and National Guard members providing security assistance to local and federal law enforcement groups. The cost of a commemorative inaugural Metro SmarTrip pass, which allows unlimited use of Washington’s Metrorail and Metrobus on January 20. Metrorail will be open at 4 a.m. on Inauguration Day and will run until midnight, but five stations downtown (Archives, Federal Triangle, Mt Vernon Square, Pentagon and Smithsonian) will be closed for security purposes. The cost of the cheapest package deal offered by the Trump inaugural committee, as reported by Yahoo News’ Mike Isikoff . Twenty-five grand buys you two tickets to the Inaugural Parade, an “entertainment-filled” Victory Reception and admission to both Thursday’s welcome concert and Fireworks show and a black-tie ball. For a million dollars, you get all of that plus dinner with Vice President-elect Mike Pence, lunch with future first lady Melania Trump and other perks. The last time there was an inaugural parade without Charles Brotman as the announcer . The 89-year-old has worked every parade since Dwight Eisenhower’s second inaugural but is being replaced this year by Steve Ray, a freelance radio announcer and Trump supporter . Brotman told Washington’s WJLA-TV he was “heartbroken” by the decision but wished Ray well. The estimated total cost of President Obama’s first inauguration in 2009, which includes public and private money spent on everything from security and a Bruce Springsteen concert to rented big screens for the National Mall and inaugural balls. This year’s inauguration is estimated to cost between $175 and 200 million . The number of words in the shortest ever inaugural address, delivered by George Washington in 1793 at the start of his second term as president. William Henry Harrison delivered the longest address in 1841, clocking in at over 8,000 words and going nearly two hours. The number of full-time Radio City Rockettes who have declined to perform at the inauguration, according to one dancer’s interview with Marie Claire . The storied dance troupe consists of 13 full-timers and 80 seasonal high-kickers. Reports that Madison Square Company, which runs the dance group, had threatened to fire dancers who refused to attend sparked a furor, and the organization later said participation is fully voluntary . The famed group previously performed at the 2001 and 2005 inaugurations of George W. Bush. The potential total number of pro- and anti-Trump demonstrators, according to National Park Service estimates . At least 26 groups have applied for permits for inauguration weekend, with the estimated number of attendees per group ranging from 200,000 (Women’s March on Washington) to three (a fasting vigil in support of the Equal Rights Amendment). The potential economic boost to the Washington area, according to a study authored by George Mason professor Stephen Fuller. “The economic impacts will spread to Baltimore; there aren’t enough hotel rooms to accommodate all of these [people],” said Fuller in an interview with WTOP . The year of the first inauguration to take place in Washington, D.C., with Thomas Jefferson’s swearing in as president. The previous three were held in New York City (Washington’s first term) and Philadelphia (Washington’s second term and John Adams’ one term). The estimated size of the crowd expected to assemble in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 20 for the inauguration ceremony. The record is 1.8 million, set in 2009 for President Obama’s first inauguration. The number of people who will be sitting on the inaugural platform , which is built anew every four years. It will be over 10,000 square feet (the same size as the 2005 edition, which was the largest ever constructed) and will seat the Trump and Pence families, Paul Ryan, the Supreme Court Justices, former presidents (including George W. Bush and Bill Clinton), governors, the Joint Chiefs of Staffs and other government officials. Bleachers built on the Upper West Terrace will hold another 1,000 people, including the choir that will perform during the ceremony. The expected cost of the inauguration just to the city of Washington D.C., according to Mayor Muriel Bowser . Bowser said that the federal government has already signed off on $19 million of the cost to be paid back to the city and she expects the full amount to eventually be approved. The approximate number of singers from the Mormon Tabernacle Choir that will be making the trip to Washington to perform . The all-volunteer group based in Salt Lake City has 360 members but saw one singer resign following their acceptance of the inaugural committee’s invitation. The number of miles of coastline the Coast Guard will be securing in the Washington area, patrolled by 19 small boats. According to a Coast Guard spokesperson, the security zones will be enforced from 6 a.m. on Jan. 15 through 6 a.m. on Jan. 24. During this period, entry into or remaining in the zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard. Public vessels and vessels already at berth at the time the security zone is implemented do not have to depart. The year artist George Caleb Bingham finished “The Verdict of the People,” the painting that will be on display at the inaugural luncheon. Rep. Roy Blunt of Missouri, who chairs the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies (JCCIC), selected the piece from the Saint Louis Art Museum, which is loaning it for the Jan. 20 meal. The choice of painting, which depicts the results of an election being announced and features a slave pulling a cart, has caused a stir in the St. Louis art community. “So although this was painted in 1855 and it reflects a very different state of America,” art historian Ivy Cooper told the Columbia Missourian , “I think ironically it also reflects the kind of division and the kind of exclusion that Donald Trump would bring to his presidency.” Cooper and another local artist started a petition to stop the painting from being sent to Washington. The approximate number of free tickets distributed for the actual swearing-in ceremony. The tickets, which allow access to viewing areas near the Capitol, are allotted to members of Congress who then distribute them to constituents. Some of the tickets are available for resale on secondary markets, but the JCCIC is working with companies like eBay and StubHub to prevent inaugural listings. (While it is not illegal to resell the tickets, organizers have said it violates the spirit of the event.) The remaining spectators, potentially half a million in number, will be able to watch on the National Mall west of 4th street. : The record for coldest temperature at an inauguration , which occurred for Ronald Reagan’s second term in 1985 and caused the festivities to be moved indoors to the Capitol Rotunda. It was a stark contrast from Reagan’s first inaugural in 1981, which set the record for warmest January inauguration with a temperature of 55. (Gerald Ford’s August 1974 ceremony was warmest overall at 89 degrees.) The number of joints that the DCMJ organization plans to hand out on Inauguration Day. The group advocates for marijuana legalization in the District and wants to make a statement during the new president’s speech. “At 4 minutes and 20 seconds into President Trump’s speech we’ll light up,” said the group on its website . “Unless President Trump comes out now in support of full cannabis legalization in all 50 States and D.C.!” It’s currently legal to possess and grow small amounts of marijuana in D.C., but public consumption and possession on federal grounds are both still illegal. Most memorable inauguration speech moments Will the Trumps get a White House dog? A brief history of presidential pets Report: Trump is writing his own inaugural address — with Reagan and JFK in mind

On Jan. 20, the United States will host its 58th inauguration ceremony to swear in the country’s 45th president: Donald Trump. Since George Washington’s first inaugural in 1789, the quadrennial tradition has changed cities and added a parade, a luncheon and a number of celebratory balls. The event this year is also expected to draw demonstrators by the thousands to the nation’s capital, adding another layer to the weekend’s festivities. Here are some important numbers to know as we approach the transition of power from President Obama to President-elect Trump.

13,000: The number of military personnel that will be providing security and support for the inauguration. Per the Military Times, this will include troops in ceremonial roles and National Guard members providing security assistance to local and federal law enforcement groups.

$10: The cost of a commemorative inaugural Metro SmarTrip pass, which allows unlimited use of Washington’s Metrorail and Metrobus on January 20. Metrorail will be open at 4 a.m. on Inauguration Day and will run until midnight, but five stations downtown (Archives, Federal Triangle, Mt Vernon Square, Pentagon and Smithsonian) will be closed for security purposes.

$25,000: The cost of the cheapest package deal offered by the Trump inaugural committee, as reported by Yahoo News’ Mike Isikoff. Twenty-five grand buys you two tickets to the Inaugural Parade, an “entertainment-filled” Victory Reception and admission to both Thursday’s welcome concert and Fireworks show and a black-tie ball. For a million dollars, you get all of that plus dinner with Vice President-elect Mike Pence, lunch with future first lady Melania Trump and other perks.

1953: The last time there was an inaugural parade without Charles Brotman as the announcer. The 89-year-old has worked every parade since Dwight Eisenhower’s second inaugural but is being replaced this year by Steve Ray, a freelance radio announcer and Trump supporter. Brotman told Washington’s WJLA-TV he was “heartbroken” by the decision but wished Ray well.

$170 million: The estimated total cost of President Obama’s first inauguration in 2009, which includes public and private money spent on everything from security and a Bruce Springsteen concert to rented big screens for the National Mall and inaugural balls. This year’s inauguration is estimated to cost between $175 and 200 million.

136: The number of words in the shortest ever inaugural address, delivered by George Washington in 1793 at the start of his second term as president. William Henry Harrison delivered the longest address in 1841, clocking in at over 8,000 words and going nearly two hours.

3: The number of full-time Radio City Rockettes who have declined to perform at the inauguration, according to one dancer’s interview with Marie Claire. The storied dance troupe consists of 13 full-timers and 80 seasonal high-kickers. Reports that Madison Square Company, which runs the dance group, had threatened to fire dancers who refused to attend sparked a furor, and the organization later said participation is fully voluntary. The famed group previously performed at the 2001 and 2005 inaugurations of George W. Bush.

400,000: The potential total number of pro- and anti-Trump demonstrators, according to National Park Service estimates. At least 26 groups have applied for permits for inauguration weekend, with the estimated number of attendees per group ranging from 200,000 (Women’s March on Washington) to three (a fasting vigil in support of the Equal Rights Amendment).

$1.4 billion: The potential economic boost to the Washington area, according to a study authored by George Mason professor Stephen Fuller. “The economic impacts will spread to Baltimore; there aren’t enough hotel rooms to accommodate all of these [people],” said Fuller in an interview with WTOP.

1801: The year of the first inauguration to take place in Washington, D.C., with Thomas Jefferson’s swearing in as president. The previous three were held in New York City (Washington’s first term) and Philadelphia (Washington’s second term and John Adams’ one term).

800,000: The estimated size of the crowd expected to assemble in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 20 for the inauguration ceremony. The record is 1.8 million, set in 2009 for President Obama’s first inauguration.