Mr. Reality TV Goes to Washington
Mr. Reality TV Goes to Washington
Asked by Matt Lauer on “Today” for some adjectives to describe an Inauguration Day that few people predicted before November, NBC’s Chuck Todd offered these: “Unusual. Anxious. Uncertain.” Here are a few more: Heady. Surreal. And tense. The tension was partly the hangover from the bitter election. But it also came because two contradictory narratives were colliding on television: that of the inauguration ritual and that of the new president, Donald J. Trump. The Inauguration Day narrative is a stately quadrennial serial. It has a soothing script: unity, reconciliation and — as anchors must have intoned a billion times — “the peaceful transition of power.” Its history-marinated pageantry assures us that our norms and institutions are bigger than any individual. The candidacy of Mr. Trump, on the other hand, was an agitated 24/7 multiplatform soap opera, full of intrigue, racy dialogue and shocking twists. In the itchy-Twitter-fingered persona of Mr. Trump and the dire messaging of his campaign guru, Stephen K. Bannon, it sent the message that all bets were off, and norms and institutions were made to be smashed. Advertisement All morning, talking heads uneasily asked which version of the story would win out. Would Mr. Trump, like most new presidents, reach out to the losing side? Would there be a sign, any sign, that things would calm down? Would he tweet again? Advertisement “The key of ‘we’ is what he ought to be singing in,” said the conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt on NBC. On CNN, a word cloud of sentiments from viewers gave “Unity” as the word they most wanted to hear from the new president. Even on the Trump-friendly “Fox and Friends” on Fox News, the mood was unsettled, a strange mix of happy and aggrieved. The Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway showed up in a quasimilitary dress she described as “Trump revolutionary wear” and spoke of the “enormous sacrifices” her boss was making: “He actually gave up more money, more power, more prestige, more position than he will have.” Other presidents have taken office amid recession, depression, war. The crisis this time was the campaign itself, which was run through with racist and sexist comments and ended with nearly three million more people voting for his opponent. (Though Mr. Trump drew thousands of avid, red-hatted fans, aerial shots showed far bigger patches of bare ground than at Barack Obama’s first inauguration.) How do you acknowledge all that while also recognizing that millions of Americans were elated? In 2009, the networks had an easy out : covering a racial milestone. Had Hillary Clinton won, raw as the feelings still would have been, there would have been the fallback of covering America’s first female president. Highlights of Trump’s Inaugural Speech “From this day forward, it's going to be only America first, America first,” President Trump declared in a forceful 16-minute Inaugural Address.      Instead, they had the first reality-TV president, whose appeal came precisely from drama and social-media sucker-punches. At a televised inauguration-eve dinner, he was still reliving his campaign fights with relish. “I will say, the other side is going absolutely crazy,” he told supporters. The next morning, anchors wondered yet again if they would spy that rarest of creatures, the Donald Trump pivot. It did not emerge in his speech , an us-vs.-them polemic delivered in the rain and aimed to delight his base, “the forgotten men and women.” He stuck to his script, but his pugilistic delivery made even phrases like “Heal! Our! Divisions!” sound like fighting words. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Then the new president was feted in Statuary Hall by the same Washington insiders he railed against. He stopped off first to sign documents and joke with congressional leaders. The scene looked familiar, as Fox’s Bret Baier noted: “It does look like the boardroom from ‘The Apprentice.’” It was only one of the day’s uncanny images, including any time a chyron read “President Trump.” Two years ago, on NBC, Mr. Trump was still in his final season as a reality host; now he was beginning his first season as the star of “America.” Advertisement What role would he play? The glad-hander or the agitator? Pointedly, Mr. Trump didn’t shake Mrs. Clinton’s hand before his speech. Just as pointedly, he greeted her warmly and mouthed “Thank you” at the luncheon, which fewer people were probably watching. Was he — as she was criticized for — maintaining both a public and a private (or less public) position? Or does consistency even matter to him? Mr. Trump got where he is on the reality-TV principle of sowing chaos. And he campaigned on a theme of defending against chaos. It may have even helped his messaging that some protesters in the capital clashed with police; TV coverage cut to scenes of unrest during the afternoon. The violent protesters were kept away, however, from the inaugural parade, which crept past the new Trump International Hotel, the first product placement of the administration . The celebrations would go on into the night. Mr. Trump, those who cover him report, sleeps very little. And his inauguration suggested that America, and its news media, should not expect a soothing rest any time soon. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2017, on Page A22 of the with the headline: Inauguration Watch: Mr. Reality TV Goes to Washington.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

All morning, talking heads uneasily asked which version of the story would win out. Would Mr. Trump, like most new presidents, reach out to the losing side? Would there be a sign, any sign, that things would calm down? Would he tweet again?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The key of ‘we’ is what he ought to be singing in,” said the conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt on NBC. On CNN, a word cloud of sentiments from viewers gave “Unity” as the word they most wanted to hear from the new president.

Even on the Trump-friendly “Fox and Friends” on Fox News, the mood was unsettled, a strange mix of happy and aggrieved. The Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway showed up in a quasimilitary dress she described as “Trump revolutionary wear” and spoke of the “enormous sacrifices” her boss was making: “He actually gave up more money, more power, more prestige, more position than he will have.”

Other presidents have taken office amid recession, depression, war. The crisis this time was the campaign itself, which was run through with racist and sexist comments and ended with nearly three million more people voting for his opponent. (Though Mr. Trump drew thousands of avid, red-hatted fans, aerial shots showed far bigger patches of bare ground than at Barack Obama’s first inauguration.)

How do you acknowledge all that while also recognizing that millions of Americans were elated? In 2009, the networks had an easy out: covering a racial milestone. Had Hillary Clinton won, raw as the feelings still would have been, there would have been the fallback of covering America’s first female president.

Video

Instead, they had the first reality-TV president, whose appeal came precisely from drama and social-media sucker-punches. At a televised inauguration-eve dinner, he was still reliving his campaign fights with relish. “I will say, the other side is going absolutely crazy,” he told supporters.

The next morning, anchors wondered yet again if they would spy that rarest of creatures, the Donald Trump pivot.

It did not emerge in his speech, an us-vs.-them polemic delivered in the rain and aimed to delight his base, “the forgotten men and women.” He stuck to his script, but his pugilistic delivery made even phrases like “Heal! Our! Divisions!” sound like fighting words.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Then the new president was feted in Statuary Hall by the same Washington insiders he railed against. He stopped off first to sign documents and joke with congressional leaders. The scene looked familiar, as Fox’s Bret Baier noted: “It does look like the boardroom from ‘The Apprentice.’”

It was only one of the day’s uncanny images, including any time a chyron read “President Trump.” Two years ago, on NBC, Mr. Trump was still in his final season as a reality host; now he was beginning his first season as the star of “America.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What role would he play? The glad-hander or the agitator? Pointedly, Mr. Trump didn’t shake Mrs. Clinton’s hand before his speech. Just as pointedly, he greeted her warmly and mouthed “Thank you” at the luncheon, which fewer people were probably watching. Was he — as she was criticized for — maintaining both a public and a private (or less public) position?

Or does consistency even matter to him? Mr. Trump got where he is on the reality-TV principle of sowing chaos.

And he campaigned on a theme of defending against chaos. It may have even helped his messaging that some protesters in the capital clashed with police; TV coverage cut to scenes of unrest during the afternoon.

The violent protesters were kept away, however, from the inaugural parade, which crept past the new Trump International Hotel, the first product placement of the administration.

The celebrations would go on into the night. Mr. Trump, those who cover him report, sleeps very little. And his inauguration suggested that America, and its news media, should not expect a soothing rest any time soon.