First lady's Jackie-esque style works hard to set gracious tone for Trump

Someone in the White House did their best to use the inauguration podium to set a gracious and dignified tone for the incoming administration. However, that person was not the new president. Melania Trump’s sleek blue dress and jacket, custom-made by Ralph Lauren with matching heels and formal gloves, harked back to the Kennedy inauguration of 1961. Her understated chic stood in stark contrast to the red baseball caps worn by the Trump faithful gathered in Washington. Melania’s style has evolved steadily over the past year. Metallics have been sidelined in favour of neutrals; stretch fabrics for smooth tailoring. This shift was starker than ever at the swearing-in, with her long hair, usually worn in bouncy curls, swept into a formal updo. The high neckline of her jacket echoed the shape of the beige Oleg Cassini coat worn by Jackie Kennedy when she became first lady. Worn with diamond earrings that must have been visible from space, Melania’s look made no attempt at a common touch. In its sleek glamour, it suggested close reading of the Claire Underwood playbook, the icy first lady at the heart of Netflix’s House of Cards. The Ralph Lauren outfit represented a coup for Melania, who has been publicly snubbed by prominent US designers included Marc Jacobs and Tom Ford. The Ralph Lauren brand, which connects the macho Americana of denim and cowboy boots with Upper East Side glamour, represents an idealised vision of the same American dream of which Donald Trump spoke in blunter terms from the podium. A Ralph Lauren spokesman said of dressing Melania: “It was important to us to uphold and celebrate the tradition of creating iconic American style for this moment.” Lauren, who has now dressed five first ladies, made a bipartisan statement by also dressing Hillary Clinton for the occasion, in a white trouser suit and matching coat. Clinton has worn white , a colour associated with the suffragettes, on several high profile occasions. The president, meanwhile, was recognisably the candidate from the campaign trail, with only an expensive-looking overcoat in place of a sports jacket as a nod to the gravitas of the occasion. His tie was still red and still slightly oversized. While Obama also stuck to party colours with a blue tie, his wife swapped colours with the new first lady, with Melania’s pale blue dress in contrast to Michelle Obama’s deep red. A fashion statement underscoring the peaceful transfer of power, perhaps? Ivanka Trump also wore a white trouser suit for the inauguration. The choice of another first lady favourite name, Oscar de la Renta, seemed to reflect the unusually high public profile Ivanka is expected to have as first daughter. But her low-key inauguration look ceded the position of second most high-profile female in the Trump line to Kellyanne Conway, in a striking marching-band style Gucci coat which the Trump adviser said was “just Gucci” and described as “Trump revolutionary wear”. Topics  Melania Trump   Donald Trump inauguration   Jackie Onassis   Donald Trump   Women's hair     Beauty   Marc Jacobs

Someone in the White House did their best to use the inauguration podium to set a gracious and dignified tone for the incoming administration. However, that person was not the new president.

Melania Trump’s sleek blue dress and jacket, custom-made by Ralph Lauren with matching heels and formal gloves, harked back to the Kennedy inauguration of 1961. Her understated chic stood in stark contrast to the red baseball caps worn by the Trump faithful gathered in Washington.

Melania’s style has evolved steadily over the past year. Metallics have been sidelined in favour of neutrals; stretch fabrics for smooth tailoring. This shift was starker than ever at the swearing-in, with her long hair, usually worn in bouncy curls, swept into a formal updo. The high neckline of her jacket echoed the shape of the beige Oleg Cassini coat worn by Jackie Kennedy when she became first lady.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The president and the first lady walk hand-in-hand after Trump’s swearing-in. Photograph: Pool/Getty Images

Worn with diamond earrings that must have been visible from space, Melania’s look made no attempt at a common touch. In its sleek glamour, it suggested close reading of the Claire Underwood playbook, the icy first lady at the heart of Netflix’s House of Cards.

The Ralph Lauren outfit represented a coup for Melania, who has been publicly snubbed by prominent US designers included Marc Jacobs and Tom Ford. The Ralph Lauren brand, which connects the macho Americana of denim and cowboy boots with Upper East Side glamour, represents an idealised vision of the same American dream of which Donald Trump spoke in blunter terms from the podium.

A Ralph Lauren spokesman said of dressing Melania: “It was important to us to uphold and celebrate the tradition of creating iconic American style for this moment.” Lauren, who has now dressed five first ladies, made a bipartisan statement by also dressing Hillary Clinton for the occasion, in a white trouser suit and matching coat. Clinton has worn white, a colour associated with the suffragettes, on several high profile occasions.

The president, meanwhile, was recognisably the candidate from the campaign trail, with only an expensive-looking overcoat in place of a sports jacket as a nod to the gravitas of the occasion. His tie was still red and still slightly oversized.

While Obama also stuck to party colours with a blue tie, his wife swapped colours with the new first lady, with Melania’s pale blue dress in contrast to Michelle Obama’s deep red. A fashion statement underscoring the peaceful transfer of power, perhaps?

Ivanka Trump also wore a white trouser suit for the inauguration. The choice of another first lady favourite name, Oscar de la Renta, seemed to reflect the unusually high public profile Ivanka is expected to have as first daughter.

But her low-key inauguration look ceded the position of second most high-profile female in the Trump line to Kellyanne Conway, in a striking marching-band style Gucci coat which the Trump adviser said was “just Gucci” and described as “Trump revolutionary wear”.