Donald Trump’s inauguration review: From 3 Doors Down to Jackie Evancho
Donald Trump’s inauguration review: From 3 Doors Down to Jackie Evancho
A jittery Jackie Evancho took to the stage to perform the US national anthem following the official swearing-in ceremony of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States. The runner-up of who has sold one million albums since she appeared on the show, was very Bambi-in-front-of-the-headlights as she sang to the thousands (but not as many as Obama’s gig) of people who came to see Trump being sworn in. This performance followed a desperate plea to viewers to “forget about rivals and politics for a second and just think about America and the pretty song that I’m singing”. Good luck with that, Jackie. Former US President Obama was seen standing behind the performance singing the anthem along with her, while former First Lady Michelle Obama appeared to be finding it difficult to enjoy the moment. It doesn’t exactly stand up to her partner’s own inaugural celebrations, does it? The list of prolific and respected artists performing for Trump’s inauguration fell miserably short in comparison to those who performed at Obama’s – Evancho’s (occasionally flat) opera vocals don’t exactly match up to Beyonce. Speaking of, it’s been impossible not to notice just how white this inauguration ceremony has been, but then that’s not really a surprise: the vast majority of black pop and mainstream musicians have essentially boycotted Donald Trump’s inauguration. So Trump’s team resorted to bands that scream good ‘ol fashioned American patriotism ; namely classic country and rock bands who are happy to stand in front of the American flag and yell about how much they love the US-of-A. Earlier in the inauguration celebrations, country ‘supergroup’ The Frontmen of Country performed to a CGI backdrop of the American flag for the Make American Great Again concert. Read more Gorillaz release first new music in 6 years Donald Trump says 'From this day on, it's America first' House of Cards season 5 release date announced Little Texas’ Tim Rushlow, Restless Heart’s Larry Stewart, and Diamond Rio’s Marty Row, performed several songs from their bands’ respective back catalogues, starting with Restless Hearts’ “Bluest Eyes in Texas”. As if they needed to make things any more patriotic, an Army veteran joined them onstage during Restless Hearts’ “Why Does It Have to Be (Wrong or Right)”. With an announcer making sure to mention their “global success”, rock band 3 Doors Down took to the stage, performing renditions of “Kryptonite”, “The Broken”, “When I'm Gone” and “Here Without You”. “The Broken” includes the lyric “this is a call to the broken/to all the ones who’ve been thrown away/this is a call to the broken/stand up and take back your world today”. The Obamas celebrate the Inauguration in 2009 and 2013               The Obamas celebrate the Inauguration in 2009 and 2013       WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 21:  U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama thank supporters during the Commander in Chief Inaugural Ball at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama was sworn in for his second term earlier in the day.  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)   Getty Images        U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama arrive for the Inaugural Ball at the Walter Washington Convention Center January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama started his second term by taking the Oath of Office earlier in the day during a ceremony on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol.   Getty Images        U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama arrive for the Inaugural Ball at the Walter Washington Convention Center January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama started his second term by taking the Oath of Office earlier in the day during a ceremony on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol.   Getty Images        U.S. President Barack Obama dances with first lady Michelle Obama during the Inaugural Ball January 21, 2013 at Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, DC. Barack Obama was re-elected for a second term as President of the United States.   Getty Images        President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama ride in a golf cart  an Inaugural ball 1/20/09
Official White House Photo by Pete Souza   Getty Images        US President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama dance during the Youth Inaugural Ball at the Hilton Washington in Washington, DC, January 20, 2009. Obama was sworn in as the 44th US president earlier in the day. AFP PHOTO / Saul LOEB (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)   AFP/Getty Images        (L-R) US President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, Michelle Obama and president-elect Barack Obama stand outside the Diplomatic entrance of the White House on November 10, 2008 in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president.     AFP PHOTO/Tim SLOAN (Photo credit should read TIM SLOAN/AFP/Getty Images)   Getty Images        (L-R) US President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, Michelle Obama and president-elect Barack Obama stand outside the Diplomatic entrance of the White House on November 10, 2008 in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president.     AFP PHOTO/Tim SLOAN (Photo credit should read TIM SLOAN/AFP/Getty Images)   AFP/Getty Images        US President George W. Bush and president-elect Barack Obama make their way through the Colonnade on November 10, 208 to a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president.         AFP PHOTO/Mandel NGAN (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)   AFP/Getty Images        performs during MTV & ServiceNation: Live From The Youth Inaugural Ball at the Hilton Washington on January 20, 2009 in Washington, DC. President Barack Obama was sworn in as the 44th President of the United States today, becoming the first African-American to be elected President of the US.   Getty Images  It’s a clear nod to Trump’s one consistent message of “taking back America” – from quite who from has remained uncertain. 3 Doors Down work well as a band for Trump’s inauguration; they attempted to follow in the footsteps of Nirvana and Kurt Cobain’s deep yet catchy lyrics and grunge guitars, but fell short and ended up with material that sounds more self-pitying than introspective – as put it, “passing off narcissism as integrity”. DJ Ravi Drums performed a rather bizarre, short set that featured dancers (the Rocketbots) in astronaut-type costumes – with an audience member’s laughter ringing out distinctly in the silence that greeted them walking onto the stage. At the end of the set the Rocketbots seemed to malfunction and drop to the floor before The Piano Guys arrived and began to interfere with a helpless Yamaha grand. Country music legend Toby Keith, who was a registered Democrat until 2008 and who branded President Trump a “media whore”, was by far the biggest name the inaugural committee managed to land.   Arcade Fire, Moby and more release new anti-Donald Trump protest songs Keith performed a number of his biggest hits for attendees, including “American Soldier”, “Courtest of the Red, White and Blue (The Angry American)” and “Made In America”. He thanked Barack Obama for his work as president, and for Donald Trump for taking on the presidency. The whole thing was undeniably boring – you literally couldn’t pay me to attend a gig of this calibre – but it wasn’t really about the music to begin with. It does, however, remind America and the rest of the world of who Trump will serve as US President. He didn’t get the stars he wanted. But with acts largely comprised of white, male, rich, older Americans plus one young, decorative female (Evancho) – Trump has put the people he will benefit most on full display. More about: Donald Trump us president President of the United States 3 Doors Down Jackie Evancho Michelle Obama Barack Obama presidential inauguration Inauguration concert Comments

A jittery Jackie Evancho took to the stage to perform the US national anthem following the official swearing-in ceremony of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States.

The runner-up of America’s Got Talent, who has sold one million albums since she appeared on the show, was very Bambi-in-front-of-the-headlights as she sang to the thousands (but not as many as Obama’s gig) of people who came to see Trump being sworn in.

This performance followed a desperate plea to CBS viewers to “forget about rivals and politics for a second and just think about America and the pretty song that I’m singing”. Good luck with that, Jackie.

All the artists who have refused to play Trump's inauguration

Former US President Obama was seen standing behind the performance singing the anthem along with her, while former First Lady Michelle Obama appeared to be finding it difficult to enjoy the moment. It doesn’t exactly stand up to her partner’s own inaugural celebrations, does it?

The list of prolific and respected artists performing for Trump’s inauguration fell miserably short in comparison to those who performed at Obama’s – Evancho’s (occasionally flat) opera vocals don’t exactly match up to Beyonce.

Speaking of, it’s been impossible not to notice just how white this inauguration ceremony has been, but then that’s not really a surprise: the vast majority of black pop and mainstream musicians have essentially boycotted Donald Trump’s inauguration.

So Trump’s team resorted to bands that scream good ‘ol fashioned American patriotism; namely classic country and rock bands who are happy to stand in front of the American flag and yell about how much they love the US-of-A.

Earlier in the inauguration celebrations, country ‘supergroup’ The Frontmen of Country performed to a CGI backdrop of the American flag for the Make American Great Again concert.

Little Texas’ Tim Rushlow, Restless Heart’s Larry Stewart, and Diamond Rio’s Marty Row, performed several songs from their bands’ respective back catalogues, starting with Restless Hearts’ “Bluest Eyes in Texas”. As if they needed to make things any more patriotic, an Army veteran joined them onstage during Restless Hearts’ “Why Does It Have to Be (Wrong or Right)”.

With an announcer making sure to mention their “global success”, rock band 3 Doors Down took to the stage, performing renditions of “Kryptonite”, “The Broken”, “When I'm Gone” and “Here Without You”.

“The Broken” includes the lyric “this is a call to the broken/to all the ones who’ve been thrown away/this is a call to the broken/stand up and take back your world today”.

The Obamas celebrate the Inauguration in 2009 and 2013







10 show all The Obamas celebrate the Inauguration in 2009 and 2013

















1/10 WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 21: U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama thank supporters during the Commander in Chief Inaugural Ball at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama was sworn in for his second term earlier in the day. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Getty Images

2/10 U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama arrive for the Inaugural Ball at the Walter Washington Convention Center January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama started his second term by taking the Oath of Office earlier in the day during a ceremony on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol. Getty Images

3/10 U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama arrive for the Inaugural Ball at the Walter Washington Convention Center January 21, 2013 in Washington, DC. President Obama started his second term by taking the Oath of Office earlier in the day during a ceremony on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol. Getty Images

4/10 U.S. President Barack Obama dances with first lady Michelle Obama during the Inaugural Ball January 21, 2013 at Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, DC. Barack Obama was re-elected for a second term as President of the United States. Getty Images

5/10 President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama ride in a golf cart an Inaugural ball 1/20/09 Official White House Photo by Pete Souza Getty Images

6/10 US President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama dance during the Youth Inaugural Ball at the Hilton Washington in Washington, DC, January 20, 2009. Obama was sworn in as the 44th US president earlier in the day. AFP PHOTO / Saul LOEB (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) AFP/Getty Images

7/10 (L-R) US President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, Michelle Obama and president-elect Barack Obama stand outside the Diplomatic entrance of the White House on November 10, 2008 in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president. AFP PHOTO/Tim SLOAN (Photo credit should read TIM SLOAN/AFP/Getty Images) Getty Images

8/10 (L-R) US President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, Michelle Obama and president-elect Barack Obama stand outside the Diplomatic entrance of the White House on November 10, 2008 in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president. AFP PHOTO/Tim SLOAN (Photo credit should read TIM SLOAN/AFP/Getty Images) AFP/Getty Images

9/10 US President George W. Bush and president-elect Barack Obama make their way through the Colonnade on November 10, 208 to a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. Obama is visiting the White House at the invitation of Bush ahead of his January 20, 2009 inauguration as the next president. AFP PHOTO/Mandel NGAN (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images) AFP/Getty Images

10/10 performs during MTV & ServiceNation: Live From The Youth Inaugural Ball at the Hilton Washington on January 20, 2009 in Washington, DC. President Barack Obama was sworn in as the 44th President of the United States today, becoming the first African-American to be elected President of the US. Getty Images

It’s a clear nod to Trump’s one consistent message of “taking back America” – from quite who from has remained uncertain. 3 Doors Down work well as a band for Trump’s inauguration; they attempted to follow in the footsteps of Nirvana and Kurt Cobain’s deep yet catchy lyrics and grunge guitars, but fell short and ended up with material that sounds more self-pitying than introspective – as Vulture put it, “passing off narcissism as integrity”.

DJ Ravi Drums performed a rather bizarre, short set that featured dancers (the Rocketbots) in astronaut-type costumes – with an audience member’s laughter ringing out distinctly in the silence that greeted them walking onto the stage. At the end of the set the Rocketbots seemed to malfunction and drop to the floor before The Piano Guys arrived and began to interfere with a helpless Yamaha grand.

Country music legend Toby Keith, who was a registered Democrat until 2008 and who branded President Trump a “media whore”, was by far the biggest name the inaugural committee managed to land.

Keith performed a number of his biggest hits for attendees, including “American Soldier”, “Courtest of the Red, White and Blue (The Angry American)” and “Made In America”. He thanked Barack Obama for his work as president, and for Donald Trump for taking on the presidency.

The whole thing was undeniably boring – you literally couldn’t pay me to attend a gig of this calibre – but it wasn’t really about the music to begin with. It does, however, remind America and the rest of the world of who Trump will serve as US President.

He didn’t get the stars he wanted. But with acts largely comprised of white, male, rich, older Americans plus one young, decorative female (Evancho) – Trump has put the people he will benefit most on full display.