BBC uses wrong subtitles during live inauguration
BBC uses wrong subtitles during live coverage of inauguration


Millions of people tuned in to watch Donald Trump become President today - but as the BBC showed live footage of the historic moment, it used subtitles from a children's television show.

Viewers took to social media during the broadcast of Trump's inauguration ceremony, noting the BBC appeared to be using subtitles from Tracy Beaker spin-off, The Dumping Ground.

As Trump's face appeared on the screen, the subtitles read, 'Oh whatever' and, 'mum will get into trouble', while 'Just shut it, yeah? Oi! Leave him alone' appeared across Barack Obama's image.

As the BBC showed live footage of Donald Trump being sworn it, it appeared to use subtitles from a children's television show

Twitter user @Kaytality uploaded the footage showing what appeared to be incorrect subtitles, adding: 'BBC News have the wrong subtitles on and it's pretty glorious.'

As Trump was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States, the subtitles reportedly read: 'No-one wants you here.

'You're only in a mood because Mo's gone.

'Just shut it, yeah? Oi! Leave him alone! Just tell him to get out of my face.'

The subtitles were shown as Donald Trump and Barack Obama bowed their heads while listening to Timothy Cardinal Dolan delivering a prayer.

The dialogue appeared to have come from the popular children's series The Dumping Ground, which is shown on CBBC.

According to social media, the dialogue from children's series, The Dumping Ground flashed up on the screen

As Trump was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States, the subtitles reportedly read: 'No-one wants you here'

Viewers took to social media in their droves to comment on the apparent gaffe.

BBC is investigating the origins of the apparent mistake and looking at whether any localised issues may have affected the viewer.

A BBC spokesperson said: 'We have not found any evidence or had other feedback from viewers that our main output covering the inauguration was subtitled incorrectly.'

Twitter user @Kaytality uploaded the footage showing what appeared to be incorrect subtitles, adding: 'BBC News have the wrong subtitles on and it's pretty glorious'