See President Obama's final moments at the White House
See President Obama's final moments at the White House
News See President Obama's final moments at the White House It's official: The movers have come and gone and the Obamas have left the White House. Former Chief Official White House Photographer Pete Souza, who documented Obama's presidency , posted his final photos of the former president bidding farewell to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.  President Obama waves from the steps of Executive One helicopter following the inauguration of Donald Trump at the U.S. Capitol. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on More News videos Laptop explosions caught on video spur new concerns about batteries Washington attorney general on travel ban: Trump does not have ‘unfettered authority’ Trump travel ban still on hold as new voices speak out against it Trump's defense of ‘killer’ Putin sparks backlash from both parties In one photo, President Obama steps out of the Oval Office for the final time as president. In another, he waves goodbye from the steps of Executive One following Donald Trump's inauguration.  Farewell. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on   "What a great experience I've had the past eight years," Souza wrote in one of the captions. Text Display Background Enhancements Obamas Wave Farewell Before Departing Joint Base Andrews Obamas Wave Farewell Before Departing Joint Base Andrews More video Watch Donald Trump's Full Inaugural Address Watch Donald Trump Take the Presidential Oath of Office High Profile LA Democrats Discuss The Way Forward 'There's Nothing Right About This': Detroiters Protest Against Trump's Immigration Ban Souza posted the photos from his Instagram account , where he explained his old photos of the 44th president will remain visible on his other account, @petesouza44 . The dedicated photographer, like the president he served, plans to take a much-needed break.   "I may not post that much initially as I try to take a little break, sleep late, do whatever my wife wants me to do, go to the gym every day, see some concerts, watch some movies, read some books, drink some wine...you get the idea," he wrote.  Another view of President Obama leaving the Oval Office for the last time this morning (taken with remote camera). A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on  President Obama leaves the Oval Office this morning for the last time. What a great experience I've had the past eight years. Every photo I've posted to this account has been archived and locked at @petesouza44. This account (@petesouza) will now be my personal account so I hope you will continue to follow me. I expect to be very active on Instagram although I may not post that much initially as I try to take a little break, sleep late, do whatever my wife wants me to do, go the gym every day, see some concerts, watch some movies, read some books, drink some wine....you get idea. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Speaking of new social accounts, Trump has already taken over at @POTUS on Twitter , while Obama has returned to his old account, @BarackObama , writing on Twitter, "Is this thing still on?" The Obamas have said they plan to stay in Washington, D.C. and have reportedly rented a nine-bedroom mansion in the Kalorama neighborhood . Text Display Background Enhancements Trump Signs First Documents As President Trump Signs First Documents As President More video Watch Donald Trump's Full Inaugural Address Watch Donald Trump Take the Presidential Oath of Office High Profile LA Democrats Discuss The Way Forward 'There's Nothing Right About This': Detroiters Protest Against Trump's Immigration Ban

share tweet pin email

It's official: The movers have come and gone and the Obamas have left the White House.

Former Chief Official White House Photographer Pete Souza, who documented Obama's presidency, posted his final photos of the former president bidding farewell to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.

President Obama waves from the steps of Executive One helicopter following the inauguration of Donald Trump at the U.S. Capitol. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jan 20, 2017 at 12:01pm PST

In one photo, President Obama steps out of the Oval Office for the final time as president. In another, he waves goodbye from the steps of Executive One following Donald Trump's inauguration.

Farewell. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jan 20, 2017 at 12:06pm PST

RELATED: Jenna Bush Hager and Barbara Bush share their Inauguration Day memories

"What a great experience I've had the past eight years," Souza wrote in one of the captions.

Souza posted the photos from his Instagram account, where he explained his old photos of the 44th president will remain visible on his other account, @petesouza44. The dedicated photographer, like the president he served, plans to take a much-needed break.

RELATED: Kellyanne Conway celebrates inauguration sporting 'Trump Revolutionary Wear'

"I may not post that much initially as I try to take a little break, sleep late, do whatever my wife wants me to do, go to the gym every day, see some concerts, watch some movies, read some books, drink some wine...you get the idea," he wrote.

Another view of President Obama leaving the Oval Office for the last time this morning (taken with remote camera). A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jan 20, 2017 at 11:58am PST

Speaking of new social accounts, Trump has already taken over at @POTUS on Twitter, while Obama has returned to his old account, @BarackObama, writing on Twitter, "Is this thing still on?"

The Obamas have said they plan to stay in Washington, D.C. and have reportedly rented a nine-bedroom mansion in the Kalorama neighborhood.