These Moms Say The Girl Scouts' Newest Cookie Rejects Science, Conflicts With Its STEM Advocacy
These Moms Say The Girl Scouts' Newest Cookie Rejects Science, Conflicts With Its STEM Advocacy
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kavin Senapathy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. SACRAMENTO, CA - JUNE 23: California Girl Scout Gold Award recipients look onto the Assembly floor during a proclamation recognizing the award's 100th anniversary on June 23, 2016 in Sacramento, California. (Photo by Kelly Sullivan/Getty Images for Girl Scouts)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

From Thin Mints to Peanut Butter Patties, Girl Scout cookies are a beloved annual American staple. But more important than door-to-door treats is the Girl Scouts’ emphasis on empowering girls, with a noble mission “of building girls of courage, confidence, and character, who make the world a better place.”

As leaders in STEM education, one would expect the Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA) to stand by science and evidence, which they’ve done until recently. The organization has been a battleground for the hot-button issue of GMOs, or food with ingredients derived from genetically engineered crops. In the scientific community, genetic engineering is accepted as safe agricultural breeding methods that can achieve traits that other methods can’t. But with far-reaching ideologically and financially motivated campaigns to disparage these techniques, combined with confusion and a marketplace dominated by buzzwords, “non-GMO” fluff has gained a foothold in the consumer psyche.

The campaign to pressure the GSUSA into dropping ingredients sourced from plants engineered with modern molecular techniques, better known by the nebulous term “GMO,” ignited controversy in 2013 when a California mom launched the Facebook page advising scout parents to boycott the annual sales drive. Her goal? Persuading the organization to go GMO-free. Her then 6-year-old daughter Alicia Serratos allegedly led the movement, with social media plastered with images of her dimpled, gap-toothed grin holding signs with messages like, “Please take GMOs out of our Girl Scout cookies. If I get 100,000 signatures, I get to fly to New York to hand deliver my petition!” With heavy promotion from fringe anti-GMO activist sites like GMOInside and NaturalNews.com, the campaign went viral, gaining over 40,000 signatures.

The organization, which supports STEM education for girls and offers merit badges in “Science and Technology” as well as in “Innovation,” kept its cookie money where its mouth is. All of the organization’s cookies contained one or more ingredients derived from GMO crops, and a statement on the GSUSA website explained why, as I described here. But that has changed with the 2017 Girl Scout cookie season, which is underway or fast approaching in most areas.

In a November 22nd post, the Remove GMOs from Girl Scout Cookies page, along with larger anti-GMO activist groups declared a small but meaningful victory. The Girl Scouts caved to demands and released the first “non-GMO” Girl Scout treat: the new S’mores sandwich cookie, from Little Brownie Bakers is “made with ingredients that are verified as not containing genetically modified organisms” according to the GSUSA site. Anti-GMO (and anti-vaccine, anti-fluoridated water, pro-cancer conspiracy theory) group March Against Monsanto, which boasts over a million followers on social media, joined in the celebration, declaring, “[N]on-GMO has officially gone mainstream: one of the country’s most recognized institutions, the Girl Scouts of the USA (formerly known as America) has announced its first-ever (officially speaking, anyway) non-GMO cookie.” MAM notes that ABC Bakers also makes nine separate Girl Scout Cookie flavors, and urges readers to ask the company to make more non-GMO Girl Scout Cookie varieties. The petitioners’ next goal is to get all of the classic treats to go both non-GMO and organic.

A group of moms who started a grassroots pro-GMO parenting movement, known by hashtag #Moms4GMOs (and #Dads4GMOs), and who feature prominently in the upcoming Science Moms short documentary (in which I also appear), is calling foul. “Non-GMO labels encourage and perpetuate fears about biotechnology,” explains plant geneticist Dr. Anastasia Bodnar. “I would hope that Girl Scouts are learning about science and technology, not learning to fear it.”

The hypocrisy of a STEM positive group that prides itself on empowering girls ignoring scientific consensus is thick. “It's like they want to teach girls to be strong and independent but then they cave to fear marketing directed at women,” says neuroscientist Dr. Alison Bernstein, touching on the fact that GMO fear mongering is often targeted at moms.

One comment submitted to ABC Bakers reads, “PLEASE make a non-GMO (or even better, an organic) cookie option! As a troop leader with kids who have food sensitivities, I'd love to be able to let my own Girl Scouts eat them without worry of their sensitivities. And I know MANY others who would actually buy the cookies who haven't in the past because of this as well.” While avoiding allergens is crucial for someone with a food allergy, whether or not an ingredient was derived from a genetically engineered crop has no impact on its allergenicity or other health effects. Dr. Layla Katiraee, an NGS product development scientist, says non-GMO foods offer “no health benefits, zilch,” adding that non-GMO labels “give the impression that it's better or that GMOs are something that should be avoided.”

Of course, cookies are hardly health food, but as Bernstein quips in a clip from Science Moms on recent pressure for GSUSA to change their cookie formulation, “[Y]ou’re attacking them because their junk food isn’t healthy? They’re cookies. Let them be cookies.” As a report from the American Association for the Advancement of Science puts it, “consuming foods containing ingredients derived from GM crops is no riskier than consuming the same foods containing ingredients from crop plants modified by conventional plant improvement techniques.” In other words, a non-GMO cookie is no better than one with ingredients derived from genetic engineering, nor is any product with a non-GMO label better than its counterpart.

It’s not just harmless marketing—the proliferation of products certified or labeled non-GMO has a tangible impact. Katiraee says that “it demonizes a promising technology and shrouds it in a shadow of negativity. Given the challenges that we face with a changing climate and a growing population, we can't afford to stigmatize technologies that could help us face these challenges.”

This is the impact that these moms worry about most. Anti-GMO sentiment contributes to consumer fear and rejection, which influences policy makers and leads to the overly stringent regulations keeping real solutions from farmers' fields. These include oranges engineered to be resistant to the disease devastating the industry, bananas resistant to the disease wreaking havoc in east Africa, where it is a staple food, and more. The work of scientists who have engineered solutions to real agricultural, nutritional, and environmental problems languishes in regulatory limbo. Entire counties of American farmers have lost the right to grow GMO crops that offer better yields and other benefits.

Becoming part of this problem conflicts with the Girl Scouts' objectives. “Girls are fast-forwarding into the future—thanks to STEM,” GSUSA’s website boasts. My hope is that the backward trajectory won’t continue.