Kendrick Lamar, Rihanna, Adele And More Say Farewell To Obama
Kendrick Lamar, Rihanna, Adele And More Say Farewell To Obama 
It's no secret that when it came to the hip-hop and pop music world , Barack Obama was really, really popular among artists. Like, really popular . He often invited rappers to the White House and was just an overall really cool guy. We all knew and appreciated this about him. With Obama leaving office, the hip-hop and music community have started to thank him for his service and wish him farewell. "We really gonna miss you champ. The good you've done & opportunities you've given. Truly never know what we've got til it's gone. Thank u," Kendrick Lamar wrote on Twitter. Adele also wished Obama farewell on Twitter, sharing a pic of him waving goodbye. Rihanna showed respect to Obama in the most Rihanna way ever by posting a pic of Obama on Instagram with the caption, "worst breakup ever." Hard to say she's lying, too. More artists are sure to share their thoughts on Obama as we go along, but for now, check out a few below. ✌🏻 pic.twitter.com/XlcB8deroc @potus We really gonna miss you champ. The good you've done & opportunity's you've given. Truly never know what we got til its gone. Thank u worst breakup ever. 🙌🏿 A photo posted by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Jan 20, 2017 at 9:22am PST #ThankYouObamas . I'm proud to know you. Proud to have supported you. Thank you for your wisdom, grace and service to your country.

It's no secret that when it came to the hip-hop and pop music world, Barack Obama was really, really popular among artists. Like, really popular. He often invited rappers to the White House and was just an overall really cool guy. We all knew and appreciated this about him. With Obama leaving office, the hip-hop and music community have started to thank him for his service and wish him farewell.

"We really gonna miss you champ. The good you've done & opportunities you've given. Truly never know what we've got til it's gone. Thank u," Kendrick Lamar wrote on Twitter. Adele also wished Obama farewell on Twitter, sharing a pic of him waving goodbye. Rihanna showed respect to Obama in the most Rihanna way ever by posting a pic of Obama on Instagram with the caption, "worst breakup ever." Hard to say she's lying, too.

More artists are sure to share their thoughts on Obama as we go along, but for now, check out a few below.

@potus We really gonna miss you champ. The good you've done & opportunity's you've given. Truly never know what we got til its gone. Thank u — Kendrick Lamar (@kendricklamar) January 20, 2017

worst breakup ever. 🙌🏿 A photo posted by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Jan 20, 2017 at 9:22am PST