Trump White House Appears to Send Veiled Warning to Black Lives Matter Protesters
Trump White House Appears to Send Veiled Warning to Black Lives Matter Protesters
Donald Trump got sworn is as the president on Friday. Consequently, a bunch of governmental policies (see: climate change, civil rights, healthcare, immigration, etc. ) have been changed on the White House website. Whether you're elated or terrified, a change in approach from a contrasting regime shouldn't come as much of a shock. That is kind of the point of elections, after all. However, as we noted earlier, it's standard protocol for an incoming administration to erase all existing materials of the site to start anew. So, who knows, maybe they'll beef it up in the next few weeks? It's not like they had two-and-a-half months to prep for this or anything. In place of the aforementioned sections, a bunch of sections popped up , one of which was entitled " Standing Up For Our Law Enforcement Community ." Upon reading the page, you may note that it contains a number of sentences that don't exactly take a Rhodes Scholar to figure out which group they're directed at. For example, this excerpt echoes the oft-repeated theme that the incoming commander in chief will head a vague sounding "law and order administration." Note the final two sentences: "The Trump Administration will be a law and order administration. President Trump will honor our men and women in uniform and will support their mission of protecting the public. The dangerous anti-police atmosphere in America is wrong. The Trump Administration will end it." What "end it" means, specifically, is unclear. The section goes on to say: "Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the rioter, the looter, or the violent disrupter. Our job is to make life more comfortable for parents who want their kids to be able to walk the streets safely. Or the senior citizen waiting for a bus. Or the young child walking home from school." The section also contained these lines, which sound ominous: "Supporting law enforcement means supporting our citizens’ ability to protect themselves. We will uphold Americans’ Second Amendment rights at every level of our judicial system." Anyway none of this probably came as much of a surprise to you if you had picked up a newspaper at any point in the last two years . As for now, they're just words on a website intended to appeal to a base (don't bother noting the irony there). Like pretty much everything else, only time will tell what type of consequences these will have as they play out in real life. But given Trump's lifelong history of racist actions , it's certain that this is not just rhetoric.

Donald Trump got sworn is as the president on Friday. Consequently, a bunch of governmental policies (see: climate change, civil rights, healthcare, immigration, etc.) have been changed on the White House website. Whether you're elated or terrified, a change in approach from a contrasting regime shouldn't come as much of a shock. That is kind of the point of elections, after all.

However, as we noted earlier, it's standard protocol for an incoming administration to erase all existing materials of the site to start anew. So, who knows, maybe they'll beef it up in the next few weeks? It's not like they had two-and-a-half months to prep for this or anything.

In place of the aforementioned sections, a bunch of new sections popped up, one of which was entitled "Standing Up For Our Law Enforcement Community." Upon reading the page, you may note that it contains a number of sentences that don't exactly take a Rhodes Scholar to figure out which group they're directed at. For example, this excerpt echoes the oft-repeated theme that the incoming commander in chief will head a vague sounding "law and order administration." Note the final two sentences:

"The Trump Administration will be a law and order administration. President Trump will honor our men and women in uniform and will support their mission of protecting the public. The dangerous anti-police atmosphere in America is wrong. The Trump Administration will end it."

What "end it" means, specifically, is unclear. The section goes on to say:

"Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the rioter, the looter, or the violent disrupter. Our job is to make life more comfortable for parents who want their kids to be able to walk the streets safely. Or the senior citizen waiting for a bus. Or the young child walking home from school."

The section also contained these lines, which sound ominous:

"Supporting law enforcement means supporting our citizens’ ability to protect themselves. We will uphold Americans’ Second Amendment rights at every level of our judicial system."

Anyway none of this probably came as much of a surprise to you if you had picked up a newspaper at any point in the last two years. As for now, they're just words on a website intended to appeal to a base (don't bother noting the irony there). Like pretty much everything else, only time will tell what type of consequences these will have as they play out in real life. But given Trump's lifelong history of racist actions, it's certain that this is not just rhetoric.