Donald Trump's inauguration in newspapers around the world
'What if he did the job?' Newspapers around the world react to Trump


Newspapers across the globe dedicated their front pages to Donald Trump's inauguration on Friday, offering their take on how the 45th president of the United States will impact the world.

France's Le Figaro featured the mogul on the cover of its magazine edition, writing: 'What if he did the job?' The conservative paper chose to outline what it described on its cover as 'the assets of an unpredictable president'.

In the UK, The Independent took a far less optimistic approach, writing on its front page: 'So help us God.'

News readers in Japan, Israel, Iceland, the United Arab Emirates and many more countries all caught a glimpse of America's new commander-in-chief on his inauguration.

French newspaper Le Figaro dedicated its magazine edition to Donald Trump, writing 'What if he did the job?' before outlining the 'assets of an unpredictable president'

In the UK, The Independent took a far less optimistic approach, writing on its front page: 'So help us God' before wondering what Trump's presidency means for the US and the world

Germany's Der Spiegel featured a game of pool made up of several countries' flags as well as Putin's portrait. A pool ball in the colors of the Stars And Stripes can be seen, ready to be launched into the others. The headline reads: 'The new world order - Trump's game'

Mainichi Shimbun (left), one of Japan's biggest three dailies, made a similar choice with a photo of Trump taking the oath with Melania, Barron, Ivanka and Tiffany next to him. Frettabladid (right), Iceland's most circulated newspaper, gave the mogul a small space on its bottom left corner

The New York Times, with which Trump has many times feuded in the past, dedicated its front page to the president, quoting: 'This American carnage stops'

Trump also appeared on the front page of the Washington Post, which also picked up on the 'American carnage' quote like the New York Times did

German weekly magazine Der Spiegel dedicated its cover to Trump but did not show his photo, opting instead for a game of pool made up of several countries' flags as well as Putin's portrait.

A pool ball in the colors of the Stars And Stripes can be seen, ready to be launched into the others. The headline reads: 'The new world order - Trump's game.'

Also in Germany, Hamburg's daily the Hamburger Morgenpost featured the mogul with his raised fist, quoting from his inaugural speech: 'America first! America first!'

A photo of Trump being sworn in with Melania by his side also circulated on the front page of multiple editions of regional newspaper Hessische/Niedersächsische Allgemeine.

The same image appeared on the front page of the French Figaro, which in addition to its magazine edition also carved out space for the new president on its newspaper version.

Russia's Novaya Gazeta dedicated the homepage of its website to the inauguration on Friday, showing Trump and his family during the oath ceremony

Qatar's pro-government daily Al-Sharq ran a picture of the president being sworn in, with his wife Melania, his son Barron, and his daughter Ivanka also featured by his side

The United Arab Emirates' Gulf News (left) also pictured the billionaire next to his wife, youngest son and eldest daughter, this time with Donald Jr in the frame. The country's Khaleej Times (right) dedicated the top half of its front page to the mogul, writing: 'It's a new world'

China Daily gave Trump one column on the right of its front page, writing: 'Early birds gather to see Trump sworn in' above a story on inauguration events

In the UK, The Guardian opted for a Trump-centric front page, with a photo of the president with his fist raised and the quote: 'From this moment on it's going to be only America first'

Germany's daily the Hamburger Morgenpost (left) featured the same fist bump photo, quoting from Trumps inaugural speech: 'America first! America first!' A photo of Trump being sworn in with Melania by his side also circulated on the front page of multiple editions of regional newspaper Hessische/Niedersächsische Allgemeine (right)

Also in France, the Aujourd'hui En France daily featured a portrait of Trump on its Friday edition, calling him: 'The abnormal president' - a play on Francois Hollande's 2012 campaign, during which he said repeatedly he wanted to be a 'normal' president.

China Daily gave Trump one column on the right of its front page, writing: 'Early birds gather to see Trump sworn in' above a story on inauguration events.

Qatar's pro-government daily Al-Sharq ran a picture of the president being sworn in, with his wife Melania, his son Barron, and his daughter Ivanka also featured by his side.

Also in France, the Aujourd'hui En France daily featured a portrait of Trump on its Friday edition, calling him: 'The abnormal president' - a play on Francois Hollande's 2012 campaign, during which he said repeatedly he wanted to be a 'normal' president

In Germany, the Abendzeitung Muenchen (left) ran a picture of Trump with the word 'D-Day' and the Der Tagesspiegel (right) also went for a raised-fist photo

'In God we trust': The Times in the UK showed Trump waving to the audience with his family and vice-president Mike Pence by his side, opting to quote the presidential oath

French newspaper Liberation ran a photograph of Trump looking out of a window on their front page

In Israel, The Jerusalem Post featured Trump on Friday, picturing the president on his way out of plane, right above a story about Jewish groups planning to march on Washington

Mainichi Shimbun, one of Japan's biggest three dailies, made a similar choice with a photo of Trump taking the oath with Melania, Barron, Ivanka and Tiffany next to him.

The United Arab Emirates' Gulf News also pictured the billionaire next to his wife, youngest son and eldest daughter, this time with Donald Jr in the frame. The country's Khaleej Times dedicated the top half of its front page to the mogul, writing: 'Its a new world.'

Frettabladid, Iceland's most circulated newspaper, gave the mogul a small space on its bottom left corner.

In Israel, The Jerusalem Post featured Trump on its Friday edition, picturing the president on his way out of plane, right above a story about Jewish groups planning to march on Washington.