Exclusive: Actress Jane Fonda Lists Modernist Beverly Hills Mansion For $13 Million
Exclusive: Actress Jane Fonda Lists Modernist Beverly Hills Mansion For $13 Million
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Samantha Sharf       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Unlimited Style Real Estate Photography) Actress Jane Fonda and music producer Richard Perry toured more than 30 houses before falling in love with the modernist Beverly Hills mansion they now call home. Five years after buying the place the couple is on the move again. Today they put the homes on the market with an asking price of $12.995 million, more than $5 million above what they paid. "I took one look at the house and I knew, I just knew," recalls Fonda in a video interview. Fonda declined to talk for this article, but her sales agents exclusively shared with FORBES a video featuring a tour and Fonda's memories of the home. "This place has taste," says Fonda, describing the home's strong lines, stainless steel front door and abundance of windows capturing the California vista of her childhood. "The house inspires me to be comfortable and have a great time," says Fonda, noting they easily hosted 150-people for her 75th birthday celebration. Fonda, now 79, is a two-time Academy Award winner. She currently stars in Grace and Frankie, a Netflix series about two women who form an unlikely friendship after their husbands announce they are in love. In addition to her acting, Fonda is famous for her activism, workout videos and love life. She has been linked to Perry since 2009. Prolific in his own right, Perry, 74, has produced music for legends including Ray Charles, Ringo Starr, Tina Turner and Ella Fitzgerald. Their home together is peppered with markers of their success: gold records line the walls of the den and six brightly colored portraits of Fonda by Andy Warhol line a stairway. The couple will take these and their impressive art collection with them, but the next owner will get five bedrooms, six bathrooms, a gym, a media room and a home office. As well as a distinctive glass-elevator that connects the first and second floors. The master suite includes a sitting room, his and hers bathrooms and a massive walk-in-closet. "This is the first time in my 79-years that I have had a closet that you could walk in and see everything that you have," says Fonda. At 7,000 square-feet the home is 2.7-times the size of the average home built on the West Coast today. The 3/4-acre property is also large for the area. Originally built in 1961, the previous owner completely remodeled the home. The biggest changes were the addition of eco-friendly elements such as bamboo floors, solar heating and glazed UV windows. Located in the Trousdale section of Beverley Hills, the property boasts a meditation garden (with fountain), as well as sweeping canyon and ocean views that the agents say provide a resort-like feel and complete privacy. Listing agents Jade Mills and Valerie Fitzgerald of Coldwell Banker Previews International would say why Fonda and Perry are selling, but say they intend to relocate nearby. "Whoever ends up with it," says Fonda. "I hope you love it as much as we have." Inside Jane Fonda's $13 Million Home -- Follow @samsharf    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Actress Jane Fonda and music producer Richard Perry toured more than 30 houses before falling in love with the modernist Beverly Hills mansion they now call home. Five years after buying the place the couple is on the move again. Today they put the homes on the market with an asking price of $12.995 million, more than $5 million above what they paid.

"I took one look at the house and I knew, I just knew," recalls Fonda in a video interview. Fonda declined to talk for this article, but her sales agents exclusively shared with FORBES a video featuring a tour and Fonda's memories of the home. "This place has taste," says Fonda, describing the home's strong lines, stainless steel front door and abundance of windows capturing the California vista of her childhood.

"The house inspires me to be comfortable and have a great time," says Fonda, noting they easily hosted 150-people for her 75th birthday celebration.

Fonda, now 79, is a two-time Academy Award winner. She currently stars in Grace and Frankie, a Netflix series about two women who form an unlikely friendship after their husbands announce they are in love. In addition to her acting, Fonda is famous for her activism, workout videos and love life. She has been linked to Perry since 2009. Prolific in his own right, Perry, 74, has produced music for legends including Ray Charles, Ringo Starr, Tina Turner and Ella Fitzgerald.

Their home together is peppered with markers of their success: gold records line the walls of the den and six brightly colored portraits of Fonda by Andy Warhol line a stairway. The couple will take these and their impressive art collection with them, but the next owner will get five bedrooms, six bathrooms, a gym, a media room and a home office. As well as a distinctive glass-elevator that connects the first and second floors.

The master suite includes a sitting room, his and hers bathrooms and a massive walk-in-closet. "This is the first time in my 79-years that I have had a closet that you could walk in and see everything that you have," says Fonda.

At 7,000 square-feet the home is 2.7-times the size of the average home built on the West Coast today. The 3/4-acre property is also large for the area. Originally built in 1961, the previous owner completely remodeled the home. The biggest changes were the addition of eco-friendly elements such as bamboo floors, solar heating and glazed UV windows. Located in the Trousdale section of Beverley Hills, the property boasts a meditation garden (with fountain), as well as sweeping canyon and ocean views that the agents say provide a resort-like feel and complete privacy.

Listing agents Jade Mills and Valerie Fitzgerald of Coldwell Banker Previews International would say why Fonda and Perry are selling, but say they intend to relocate nearby.

"Whoever ends up with it," says Fonda. "I hope you love it as much as we have."

--

Follow @samsharf