South West sustainable egg farmer fights blanket environmental policy geared at large-scale farms



South West sustainable egg farmer fights blanket environmental policy geared at large-scale farms

Posted

A farmer in the south-west region of WA says it is difficult to develop small, sustainable egg farms because government regulations are designed for large-scale factory farms.

Blythe Calnan set up an egg farm at her Binningup property after losing her milking job when several dairy farmers were dumped by processor Brownes last year.

Her first 200 hens have started laying and she has lined up buyers, but she is waiting for shire approval before her eggs can be sold.

The application is before the Shire of Harvey, which is considering input from the Department of Water, which has strict policies to protect water supplies.

The policy dictates there be mandatory distances, or buffer zones, between the chickens and surface and ground water to protect waterways from nutrient run-off.

But the Environmental Code of Practice for Poultry Farms in Western Australia is designed for farms with an average of 12,000 chickens.

Ms Calnan said her small property, which she hopes to stock with a maximum 400 chickens, operates using sustainable methods and should not be subject to the same conditions as a factory farm.

She said that her operation had been deemed high-risk because she did not want to implement the buffer zones of up to 300 metres required by the Government's poultry farm policy.

"We do not have the same impact to either environment or community as those large operations," she said.

Ms Calnan said the Department of Water told her there needed to be adequate separation distances from the water table year-round.

But she said that meant in winter much of her low-lying property could not be used and the chickens would be in a small area, defeating the purpose of regenerative farming.

"There has to be some common sense in our policy making and there has to be a case-by-case investigation," she said.

Department will not oppose plan if risks are managed

Ms Calnan contacted Water Minister Mia Davies who arranged for Department of Water officials to visit the property in person.

The department said if potential risks could be managed, it would not oppose her plan.

Ms Calnan said she ran her farm using a sustainable, regenerative method, rotating her small flock to fresh pasture every few days across most of her property.

"Our chickens are always on grass, their manure is feeding that grass," she said.

"We have perennial species so that they're growing all year round, and because they move on they're spreading an even part of manure around, fertilising the pasture."

Ms Calnan said it was ironic there was nothing preventing her from buying in artificial fertiliser or chicken manure to grow pasture for her cattle.

"Actually having the chickens here doing the work for us is a problem," she said.

Ms Calnan said small, sustainable producers also presented a fantastic tourism opportunity for the region, with young families already visiting her farm.

"We have thousands and thousands of people driving right through the region and if they've got reasons to stop then I think they will."

Topics: sustainable-and-alternative-farming, poultry-and-egg-production, binningup-6233