Obama Ranks High Among U.S. Presidents For Granting Clemency [Infographic]
Obama Ranks High Among U.S. Presidents For Granting Clemency [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Among the final acts of his presidency, Barack Obama announced that he would commute the sentences of 330 prisoners, the majority of whom have been serving time for minor drug offences. Earlier this week, the White House announced that Obama has granted more commutations than any other president in U.S. history. Chelsea Manning, the army intelligence analyst convicted of leaking sensitive information to Wikileaks, was a notable inmate granted clemency this week. However, drug offenders long called for harsh sentences for drug offenders to be phased out, claiming the punishment is excessive and pushes incarceration rates to unacceptable levels. Even though a historic number of inmates will walk free over the course of the next few months, thousands more either saw their petitions denied or are still awaiting a decision. Obama's clemency quest was truly exceptional by historical standards and Donald Trump is highly unlikely to continue it. If he reverts back to recent presidents' pattern of granting few commutations, plenty of non-violent offenders will remain behind bars for years to come.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Among the final acts of his presidency, Barack Obama announced that he would commute the sentences of 330 prisoners, the majority of whom have been serving time for minor drug offences. Earlier this week, the White House announced that Obama has granted more commutations than any other president in U.S. history.

In terms of overall executive clemency actions, Obama has granted the most of any president since Harry S. Truman. However, he has proven unique by focusing on commutations, an order that effectively cuts somebody's prison sentence short. Pardons on the other hand are generally granted after a person has served their time, acting as a gesture of forgiveness and restoring somebody's rights (something a commutation does not do).

Chelsea Manning, the army intelligence analyst convicted of leaking sensitive information to Wikileaks, was a notable inmate granted clemency this week. However, drug offenders accounted for the bulk of commutations both this week and throughout Obama's presidency. Obama has long called for harsh sentences for drug offenders to be phased out, claiming the punishment is excessive and pushes incarceration rates to unacceptable levels.

Even though a historic number of inmates will walk free over the course of the next few months, thousands more either saw their petitions denied or are still awaiting a decision. Obama's clemency quest was truly exceptional by historical standards and Donald Trump is highly unlikely to continue it. If he reverts back to recent presidents' pattern of granting few commutations, plenty of non-violent offenders will remain behind bars for years to come.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)