The Week in Pictures: Jan. 13 - 20
The Week in Pictures: Jan. 13 - 20
President-elect Donald Trump, left, and his wife Melania Trump arrive to the "Make America Great Again Welcome Concert" at the Lincoln Memorial on Jan. 19 in Washington, D.C. Keith Andrews visits the memorial to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 16, a national holiday that observes the birthday of the civil rights icon. President Donald Trump takes the oath of office from Chief Justice John Roberts, as his wife Melania holds the bible on Capitol Hill on Jan. 20. Trump's children look on, from left, Barron, Ivanka, Eric and Tiffany. Snow covers Kandy Freeman's hair as she participates in a Black Lives Matter protest in front of Trump Tower in New York on Jan. 14. Mexican drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman is escorted by police as he arrives at Long Island MacArthur airport in New York on Jan. 19 after his extradition from Mexico. The epic quest to bring Guzman to the U.S. culminated Friday in a New York courtroom, where the feared former leader of the Sinaloa cartel appeared in a navy jail uniform to face charges that could keep him behind bars for the rest of his life. Firefighters work amid the remains of a crashed Turkish Boeing 747 cargo plane outside Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, on Jan. 16. At least 37 people were killed when the aircraft, on a flight from Hong-Kong to Bishkek, crashed into a residential area near Kyrgyzstan's capital. A migrant stands inside an abandoned train wagon used as a makeshift shelter near Belgrade's main railway station on Jan. 16. Some 7,000 migrants from Asia and the Middle East are stranded in Serbia. Refugee camps are packed and only women and children are likely to be let into them, leaving the men to seek shelter where they can. President Donald Trump talks with former President Barack Obama on the steps of the U.S. Capitol after Trump's inauguration on Jan. 20. First lady Melania Trump and Michelle Obama look on.

11.

Mexican drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman is escorted by police as he arrives at Long Island MacArthur airport in New York on Jan. 19 after his extradition from Mexico.

The epic quest to bring Guzman to the U.S. culminated Friday in a New York courtroom, where the feared former leader of the Sinaloa cartel appeared in a navy jail uniform to face charges that could keep him behind bars for the rest of his life.

U.S. officials via Reuters