Ordinance On Jallikattu, Court Observation On Murthal Rape And Other Must Read Stories
Ordinance On Jallikattu, Court Observation On Murthal Rape And Other Must Read Stories
Ordinance On Jallikattu, Court Observation On Murthal Rape And Other Must Read Stories As the protests continue to spread all over Tamil Nadu, chief minister O Panneerselvam said that an ordinance will be issued within two days on lifting the ban on Jallikattu. The draft ordinance, in this regard, has already been sent to the home ministry. The legislation is aimed at bypassing the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA Act) under which the popular sport, which is intertwined with the Tamil culture. Read more 1. RBI Denies Exchanging Old Notes Worth Rs 50K Belonging To A Man Who Died On 26 Dec The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has declined a man's request to accept old demonetised notes left by his dead father. Mastan Singh Maran, a Bhopal resident, submitted all the documents ranging from hospital bills to death certificate of his father at the RBI branch but the officials refused to accept as only NRIs are now eligible for exchanging old currency notes now as per guidelines. Read more 2. Court Says Rapes Took Place At Murthal During Jat Protest In 2016, Directs Cops To Find Rapists The Punjab and Haryana high court observed has that the statements of some witnesses and the recovery of women's undergarments indicate that rapes had taken place at Murthal during Jat quota protests in February 2016. The court asked the state police special investigation team to find the culprits to instill confidence in the public. Read more 3. Mangalyaan Orbit Realigned To Avoid Long-Duration Eclipse Of Mars, Says ISRO The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has successfully realigned the orbit of its Mars Orbiter Mission ‘Mangalyaan’ so it is not affected by long-duration eclipse, Isro chairman A.S. Kiran Kumar said on Friday.

As the protests continue to spread all over Tamil Nadu, chief minister O Panneerselvam said that an ordinance will be issued within two days on lifting the ban on Jallikattu. The draft ordinance, in this regard, has already been sent to the home ministry.

The legislation is aimed at bypassing the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA Act) under which the popular sport, which is intertwined with the Tamil culture. Read more

1. RBI Denies Exchanging Old Notes Worth Rs 50K Belonging To A Man Who Died On 26 Dec

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has declined a man's request to accept old demonetised notes left by his dead father.

Mastan Singh Maran, a Bhopal resident, submitted all the documents ranging from hospital bills to death certificate of his father at the RBI branch but the officials refused to accept as only NRIs are now eligible for exchanging old currency notes now as per guidelines. Read more

2. Court Says Rapes Took Place At Murthal During Jat Protest In 2016, Directs Cops To Find Rapists

The Punjab and Haryana high court observed has that the statements of some witnesses and the recovery of women's undergarments indicate that rapes had taken place at Murthal during Jat quota protests in February 2016.

The court asked the state police special investigation team to find the culprits to instill confidence in the public. Read more

3. Mangalyaan Orbit Realigned To Avoid Long-Duration Eclipse Of Mars, Says ISRO

The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has successfully realigned the orbit of its Mars Orbiter Mission ‘Mangalyaan’ so it is not affected by long-duration eclipse, Isro chairman A.S. Kiran Kumar said on Friday.

The correction in the trajectory of Mangalyaan was required to keep the power supply strong during the eclipse — caused by shadow of Mars falling on it for 7-8 hours — so that it could continue to function longer, as Mangalyaan’s battery cannot support long-duration eclipse. Read more

4. Class XI Boy Posts 'Bye' On Facebook, Commits Suicide After Being 'Humiliated By Teacher'

When Class-XI student Samprit Banerjee posted a goodbye message on Facebook on Wednesday night, friends who noticed it did not guess for a moment he was bidding adieu to life.

Though no suicide note was found, the boy is suspected to have taken his own life as he was upset over being rebuked for his poor performance in his half-yearly examination. Read more

5. After Recapture, Islamic State Destroys Parts Of Historic Roman Theater In Syrian City Of Palmyra

Nearly a month after Islamic State militants took control of Syria's historic town of Palmyra, it has now emerged that the jihadists have destroyed a landmark ancient Roman monument and parts of the theater in the city.

Syrian state media on Friday confirmed reports of the destruction first trickled out of the IS-held town late in December. Read more