Senate Confirms Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security
Senate Confirms Secretaries of Defense, Homeland Security
Shares               The Senate confirmed two of President Donald Trump 's cabinet nominees Friday just hours after his swearing in, and scheduled a third confirmation vote next Monday. In a 98-1 vote, the Senate confirmed retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis as Trump's secretary of Defense, with Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand , D-New York, opposing his nomination and Sen. Jeff Sessions , R-Alabama, Trump's pick for attorney general, not voting. Later Friday evening, the Senate also approved Gen. John Kelly to lead the Department of Homeland Security in a vote of 88-11. Trump, in his first White House statement, said he was "pleased" by the confirmation votes on the two top national security positions. "These uniquely qualified leaders will immediately begin the important work of rebuilding our military, defending our nation and securing our borders. I am proud to have these two American heroes join my administration," he said. Eight years ago, the Senate cleared seven of President Obama's nominees on his first day in office, and 13 by the end of the first week. The votes on Trump's national security team came as a trio of Senate Democrats threatened to hold up a confirmation vote on Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Kansas, Trump's pick to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. As top congressional leaders mingled at a lunch shortly after Trump's swearing in, top Senate Republicans and Democrats were still wrangling over when to bring Pompeo's nomination to the Senate floor. Sens. Ron Wyden , D-Oregon, Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut and Patrick Leahy , D-Vermont, demanded more time to debate Pompeo's nomination.   Republicans chafed at Democrats' comments on the first day of a new administration. "Why the hell can't we just go ahead and give the president his national security team?" said Sen. John McCain , R-Arizona, on the Senate floor. The Senate will hold additional debate and vote on Pompeo's confirmation Monday, after holding a procedural vote today. The Senate cleared that measure in a 89-8 vote. Several Senate panels will vote on Trump's nominees next week, including Secretary of State nominee Rex Tillerson . Sen. Marco Rubio , R-Florida, has not said if he'll support Tillerson, and could be a deciding vote against the nomination in committee. Shares                  Senate Confirms Secretaries of Defense, Homeland Security   Government's Own Warnings to Law Enforcement Often Cite Media Reports Trump Says Don’t Exist   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   Appeals Court to Decide on Challenge to Trump's Immigration Executive Order   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban but Regrets Quick Rollout   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Lawmakers' Phones Ring off the Hook Over Trump's Education Pick   The Note: A Day of Tests for Trump   2 Other Times Kellyanne Conway Referred to Bowling Green 'Massacre' or 'Attack'   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Army Will Grant Easement Allowing Dakota Access Pipeline Construction to Resume   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeast Louisiana

The Senate confirmed two of President Donald Trump's cabinet nominees Friday just hours after his swearing in, and scheduled a third confirmation vote next Monday.

In a 98-1 vote, the Senate confirmed retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis as Trump's secretary of Defense, with Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-New York, opposing his nomination and Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Alabama, Trump's pick for attorney general, not voting.

Later Friday evening, the Senate also approved Gen. John Kelly to lead the Department of Homeland Security in a vote of 88-11.

Trump, in his first White House statement, said he was "pleased" by the confirmation votes on the two top national security positions.

"These uniquely qualified leaders will immediately begin the important work of rebuilding our military, defending our nation and securing our borders. I am proud to have these two American heroes join my administration," he said.

Eight years ago, the Senate cleared seven of President Obama's nominees on his first day in office, and 13 by the end of the first week.

The votes on Trump's national security team came as a trio of Senate Democrats threatened to hold up a confirmation vote on Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Kansas, Trump's pick to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. As top congressional leaders mingled at a lunch shortly after Trump's swearing in, top Senate Republicans and Democrats were still wrangling over when to bring Pompeo's nomination to the Senate floor.

Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon, Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut and Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont, demanded more time to debate Pompeo's nomination.

Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

Republicans chafed at Democrats' comments on the first day of a new administration.

"Why the hell can't we just go ahead and give the president his national security team?" said Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, on the Senate floor.

The Senate will hold additional debate and vote on Pompeo's confirmation Monday, after holding a procedural vote today. The Senate cleared that measure in a 89-8 vote.

Several Senate panels will vote on Trump's nominees next week, including Secretary of State nominee Rex Tillerson.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, has not said if he'll support Tillerson, and could be a deciding vote against the nomination in committee.