Johnny Manziel says he is sober, needs only 'one team to believe in me' in order to return to NFL
Manziel says he's sober, wants to return to NFL
Manziel says he's sober, wants to return to NFL Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Steelers cut former Browns top-10 pick Gilbert Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE SB draws 111.3M viewers on Fox, down slightly Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star 49ers must continue to practice patience with Kyle Shanahan Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Stephen A. Smith is concerned that Johnny Manziel may be extended another chance to play football before he is healthy enough to return. (1:54) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Johnny Manziel says he has achieved sobriety without professional assistance and is determined to resume his career in the NFL. In a message sent Friday to ESPN's Ed Werder, Manziel wrote, "I refuse to let my entire life of sports from the age of 4 be squandered by partying. I just got sick of it. One day I didn't like what I saw in the mirror and realized I could really help people in the position I'm in. "I love sports, I love football and when you take something away from yourself you realize it the hard way. The happiness from doing it sober has been ASTRONOMICAL. Beyond my wildest imagination and once that continued other good things started happening in my life and it just clicked." Manziel's message to Werder came one day after the former Cleveland Browns quarterback tweeted that he is trying to be a better person and thanked those who helped him during a "rough" 2016. Manziel said Friday his next priority is playing quarterback again in the NFL. When asked his immediate goal, Manziel wrote: "PLAY FOOTBALL. A pre season game, anything I don't care what it is. Only need one team to believe in me and I'll do anything to make that a possibility." Manziel, whom the Browns selected with the 22nd overall pick in the 2014 NFL draft, spent 10 weeks in rehab after his rookie season. He was suspended for the first four games of the 2016 season for violating the NFL's substance abuse policy. Manziel faced the threat of an additional suspension as the NFL investigated whether he violated its personal-conduct policy. But his 2016 season effectively ended last March, when the Browns released him. Manziel reached an agreement last month with the Dallas County district attorney's office to have domestic violence charges dropped if he meets certain conditions throughout the year. He was accused of hitting and threatening his former girlfriend during a night out last January. Manziel, 24, is scheduled to make his first announced promotional appearance since leaving the NFL. He will sign autographs in two memorabilia shops at Texas malls during Super Bowl week. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Stephen A. Smith is concerned that Johnny Manziel may be extended another chance to play football before he is healthy enough to return. (1:54)

Johnny Manziel says he has achieved sobriety without professional assistance and is determined to resume his career in the NFL.

In a message sent Friday to ESPN's Ed Werder, Manziel wrote, "I refuse to let my entire life of sports from the age of 4 be squandered by partying. I just got sick of it. One day I didn't like what I saw in the mirror and realized I could really help people in the position I'm in.

Editor's Picks Manziel says he's 'happy' after 'rough' 2016 On Twitter, ex-Cleveland Browns QB Johnny Manziel thanked those who helped him during "the truly rough patches" in 2016.

"I love sports, I love football and when you take something away from yourself you realize it the hard way. The happiness from doing it sober has been ASTRONOMICAL. Beyond my wildest imagination and once that continued other good things started happening in my life and it just clicked."

Manziel's message to Werder came one day after the former Cleveland Browns quarterback tweeted that he is trying to be a better person and thanked those who helped him during a "rough" 2016.

Manziel said Friday his next priority is playing quarterback again in the NFL. When asked his immediate goal, Manziel wrote: "PLAY FOOTBALL. A pre season game, anything I don't care what it is. Only need one team to believe in me and I'll do anything to make that a possibility."

Manziel, whom the Browns selected with the 22nd overall pick in the 2014 NFL draft, spent 10 weeks in rehab after his rookie season. He was suspended for the first four games of the 2016 season for violating the NFL's substance abuse policy. Manziel faced the threat of an additional suspension as the NFL investigated whether he violated its personal-conduct policy. But his 2016 season effectively ended last March, when the Browns released him.

Manziel reached an agreement last month with the Dallas County district attorney's office to have domestic violence charges dropped if he meets certain conditions throughout the year. He was accused of hitting and threatening his former girlfriend during a night out last January.

Manziel, 24, is scheduled to make his first announced promotional appearance since leaving the NFL. He will sign autographs in two memorabilia shops at Texas malls during Super Bowl week.