Amid historically low approval ratings, Trump now has to turn vision into policy
Amid historically low approval ratings, Trump now has to turn vision into policy
Tweet     Stumble     Email  “The time for empty talk is over.  Now arrives the hour of action,” President Trump said in his inaugural address . Within hours of being sworn in , the new president got down to business with Congressional leaders, signing nominations for his Cabinet picks -- but he may wait until Monday to take action on immigration, Obamacare, and trade, among other programs. “From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land,” Mr. Trump said Friday . Now Mr. Trump will try to turn his vision into policy. That requires getting Congress to approve the rest of his Cabinet now that retired generals James Mattis and John Kelly have been confirmed as secretaries of defense and homeland security. Inauguration of Donald Trump The highlights from the inauguration of Donald Trump on Jan. 20, 2017 in Washington, D.C. The President also plans to announce his nominee to the Supreme Court within two weeks. There’s been a vacancy on the bench since the death of Antonin Scalia almost a year ago. And next week, Mexican officials will come to Washington to begin talks about renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) -- and building a border wall. Mr. Trump may also decide to relocate the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem, a move that would send shock waves trough the Middle East. The first family will also need to get accustomed to life in the White House. This week, the Obama family’s belongings were moved out of the executive mansion and on Friday, in just a few short hours, Trump family’s were moved in and unpacked. President Trump will begin his first day on the job with an historically low approval rating among the American public -- and that could start to complicate his agenda on Capitol Hill.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Principally assigned to the State Department, Margaret Brennan also serves as a CBS News general assignment correspondent based in Washington, D.C.

“The time for empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action,” President Trump said in his inaugural address.

Within hours of being sworn in, the new president got down to business with Congressional leaders, signing nominations for his Cabinet picks -- but he may wait until Monday to take action on immigration, Obamacare, and trade, among other programs.

“From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land,” Mr. Trump said Friday.

Now Mr. Trump will try to turn his vision into policy.

That requires getting Congress to approve the rest of his Cabinet now that retired generals James Mattis and John Kelly have been confirmed as secretaries of defense and homeland security.

The President also plans to announce his nominee to the Supreme Court within two weeks. There’s been a vacancy on the bench since the death of Antonin Scalia almost a year ago.

And next week, Mexican officials will come to Washington to begin talks about renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) -- and building a border wall.

Mr. Trump may also decide to relocate the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem, a move that would send shock waves trough the Middle East.

The first family will also need to get accustomed to life in the White House. This week, the Obama family’s belongings were moved out of the executive mansion and on Friday, in just a few short hours, Trump family’s were moved in and unpacked.

President Trump will begin his first day on the job with an historically low approval rating among the American public -- and that could start to complicate his agenda on Capitol Hill.