A Day Into Trump's Presidency And The LGBT Rights And Climate Change Pages Get Deleted From The White House Website
A Day Into Trump's Presidency, The LGBT Rights Page Gets Deleted From The White House Website
A Day Into Trump's Presidency And The LGBT Rights And Climate Change Pages Get Deleted From The White House Website Just one day into Donald Trump’s presidency and changes can already be felt. For starters, the climate change and LGBT rights page has been deleted from the White House website. They have instead been replaced by a page that reads, “Sign up for updates from President Donald J. Trump”. President Obama’s administration had set up the LGBT page to engage with the community and it also included a blog about policy commitment and information about the White House’s LGBT work. The now-deleted LGBT page under Obama’s presidency read, “President Obama is committed to working with all Americans to create the brightest future for our country through innovation, education and building new technologies and more connected communities. “Since taking office, the President has demonstrated that his vision for a brighter future includes greater equality for LGBT Americans. The President and his Administration are dedicated to eliminating barriers to equality, fighting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and engaging LGBT communities across the country.” The LGBT community has expressed concerns that their rights will take a step back during Trump’s presidency and given that Vice President Mike Pence opposed laws protecting the LGBT community when he served as Indiana’s governor. All related information and news on climate change has also been removed from the White House’s website.

Just one day into Donald Trump’s presidency and changes can already be felt. For starters, the climate change and LGBT rights page has been deleted from the White House website.

Reuters

They have instead been replaced by a page that reads, “Sign up for updates from President Donald J. Trump”.

President Obama’s administration had set up the LGBT page to engage with the community and it also included a blog about policy commitment and information about the White House’s LGBT work.

Whitehouse.gov

The now-deleted LGBT page under Obama’s presidency read, “President Obama is committed to working with all Americans to create the brightest future for our country through innovation, education and building new technologies and more connected communities.

“Since taking office, the President has demonstrated that his vision for a brighter future includes greater equality for LGBT Americans. The President and his Administration are dedicated to eliminating barriers to equality, fighting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and engaging LGBT communities across the country.”

The LGBT community has expressed concerns that their rights will take a step back during Trump’s presidency and given that Vice President Mike Pence opposed laws protecting the LGBT community when he served as Indiana’s governor.

All related information and news on climate change has also been removed from the White House’s website.