How a Pennsylvania teenager feels about the future under Donald Trump

Three times, President Trump mentioned the factories. Each time, Matt Gane clapped, feeling as though the country’s new leader was talking about his hometown. Gane, 17, had taken a bus from Delaware County, Pa., to watch Trump assume the presidency. He stood with his father, Ed, who drafts layouts on contract for local plants, near the back of the Mall, where the distant Capitol looked like a dollhouse. “One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores,” Trump declared above them on a jumbo screen. “Not even a thought about the millions and millions of American workers that were left behind.” Gane was too young to vote in November, but he supported the businessman, who complained about the economy just like his dad. On Friday, he wore a blue “Trump for President” hoodie and snapped iPhone photos of the jumbo Trump. Raindrops flecked his square-rimmed glasses. “Politicians prospered, but the jobs left and the factories closed,” Trump told the crowd. “The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country.” “Woo!” Gane shouted. He will graduate next year from high school in Aston Township, Pa. He has considered becoming a nurse, like his mother, or a teacher. He finds his dad’s job interesting, too. “If [Trump] does what he promised,” Gane said, “if he brings back the jobs, there are going to be plenty of opportunities." Gane’s historically blue county backed Hillary Clinton, though less enthusiastically than it voted for former president Barack Obama. Ed Gane, 59, said that’s probably because the future seemed bleak. One of his employers recently slashed about a third of its staff. “Where I’m from, we see kids get engineering degrees and then end up working at a McDonald’s,” he said. “If you don’t have manufacturing, you don’t need engineers.” Roughly 5 million U.S. manufacturing jobs have vanished over the past two decades, and economists ascribe the shrinkage to a blend of trade and technology. Trump hasn’t addressed this aspect of automation, but he has threatened to slap tariffs on goods, particularly vehicles, created outside the county and sold on U.S. soil. Such measures, analysts say, would be tough to pass through Republican lawmakers .



Matt Gane hangs out on the Mall in Washington with his dad, Ed Gane. (Photo by Danielle Paquette)

Three times, President Trump mentioned the factories. Each time, Matt Gane clapped, feeling as though the country’s new leader was talking about his hometown.

Gane, 17, had taken a bus from Delaware County, Pa., to watch Trump assume the presidency. He stood with his father, Ed, who drafts layouts on contract for local plants, near the back of the Mall, where the distant Capitol looked like a dollhouse.

“One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores,” Trump declared above them on a jumbo screen. “Not even a thought about the millions and millions of American workers that were left behind.”

Gane was too young to vote in November, but he supported the businessman, who complained about the economy just like his dad. On Friday, he wore a blue “Trump for President” hoodie and snapped iPhone photos of the jumbo Trump. Raindrops flecked his square-rimmed glasses.

“Politicians prospered, but the jobs left and the factories closed,” Trump told the crowd. “The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country.”

“Woo!” Gane shouted.

He will graduate next year from high school in Aston Township, Pa. He has considered becoming a nurse, like his mother, or a teacher. He finds his dad’s job interesting, too.

“If [Trump] does what he promised,” Gane said, “if he brings back the jobs, there are going to be plenty of opportunities."

Since 2001, Delaware County has lost about a third of its manufacturing jobs, dropping from 20,807 to 14,701. Over the past five years, a Boeing rotorcraft factory, one of the area’s largest employers, has cut its staff from 6,200 to 4,650.

Gane’s historically blue county backed Hillary Clinton, though less enthusiastically than it voted for former president Barack Obama.

Ed Gane, 59, said that’s probably because the future seemed bleak. One of his employers recently slashed about a third of its staff. He hopes Trump will follow through on his promise to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, which he believes sparked an exodus of jobs from the United States.

“Where I’m from, we see kids get engineering degrees and then end up working at a McDonald’s,” he said. “If you don’t have manufacturing, you don’t need engineers.”

Roughly 5 million U.S. manufacturing jobs have vanished over the past two decades, and economists ascribe the shrinkage to a blend of trade and technology. The debate continues over which force was worse for employment, but a recent study from Indiana’s Ball State University found labor-reducing machinery has quashed more jobs, since factories can now produce more goods with fewer people.

Trump hasn’t addressed this aspect of automation, but he has threatened to slap tariffs on goods, particularly vehicles, created outside the county and sold on U.S. soil. Such measures, analysts say, would be tough to pass through Republican lawmakers.

States in the Rust Belt, such as Pennsylvania, bore much of the nation’s manufacturing job loss and unexpectedly pushed Trump to victory. He described the landscape Friday in his speech: “Rusted out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation.”