Why are you protesting the Trump administration?

and    One day after Donald Trump’s inauguration, on 21 January, hundreds of thousands of people will gather in Washington for the Women’s March on Washington. And while America’s capital will host the largest event, it is hardly alone: more than 300 simultaneous protests are expected across the US, with dozens more solidarity marches planned around the world. If you’re attending an event this weekend, we’d like you to tell us why taking part is important to you. What does activism look like where you are, and what does it mean to you? We’d also like you to share a photograph, or selfie, of yourself protesting. We’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting in print and online. How to contribute You can upload your images and stories through GuardianWitness by clicking the “Contribute with GuardianWitness” button above. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the Guardian app and search for “GuardianWitness assignments”. You can fill in the form below, telling us why taking part is important to you. We’d also like you to share a photograph, or selfie, of you at the protest. You can also email your answers to the questions below along with your photograph to: carmen.fishwick@theguardian.com. GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site. Topics  Donald Trump inauguration   US politics   Feminism   Donald Trump   Women

One day after Donald Trump’s inauguration, on 21 January, hundreds of thousands of people will gather in Washington for the Women’s March on Washington. And while America’s capital will host the largest event, it is hardly alone: more than 300 simultaneous protests are expected across the US, with dozens more solidarity marches planned around the world.

If you’re attending an event this weekend, we’d like you to tell us why taking part is important to you. What does activism look like where you are, and what does it mean to you? We’d also like you to share a photograph, or selfie, of yourself protesting.

We’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting in print and online.

How to contribute

You can upload your images and stories through GuardianWitness by clicking the “Contribute with GuardianWitness” button above. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the Guardian app and search for “GuardianWitness assignments”.

You can fill in the form below, telling us why taking part is important to you. We’d also like you to share a photograph, or selfie, of you at the protest.

You can also email your answers to the questions below along with your photograph to: carmen.fishwick@theguardian.com.

