'Change Will Come': Voices of the Women's March on Washington
'Change Will Come': Voices of the Women's March on Washington
The day after Donald J. Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States, hundreds of thousands descended on the nation’s capital for the Women’s March on Washington. The event, which began with a Facebook page hours after Trump was elected, is expected to be the largest inauguration-related demonstration in U.S. history. Ahead of the march, The New York Times asked readers what was motivating them to attend the event, and what they hoped would result from the event, if anything. Here are some of those responses, which have been condensed and edited for clarity. We also asked readers who are attending Trump’s inauguration about their reasons for making the journey to Washington.               The Democrats are angry, and I hope that they get their house in order to fight in the house and senate and in local elections, where change will really be made. But what I also hope from this march, is that the Democrats and moderate Republicans see that they have support to fight. That this president does not have a mandate to rule.            As a man I feel I have an obligation to take a stand and say Trump’s comments about groping women aren’t just “locker room talk.” I also want to stand up for the rights of women to control their own bodies and make their own health care decisions, rights that will be under serious threat these next few years. Even though I’m not a woman, an affront to the rights of women is an affront to the rights of us all.     I’m 25, gay, Hispanic and a woman — how can I not march? I don’t want to look back on my life and wish I had done more. I already feel the weight of this past election, wishing I had done more. I want to stand next to my sisters.                                     A unified group of people who share these values would have stood up, shown up and used their voices in a peaceful constructive manner. By doing so, the powers at be will know that a majority of Americans are prepared to stand and fight for what we believe in.            Advertisement

The day after Donald J. Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States, hundreds of thousands descended on the nation’s capital for the Women’s March on Washington. The event, which began with a Facebook page hours after Trump was elected, is expected to be the largest inauguration-related demonstration in U.S. history.

Ahead of the march, The New York Times asked readers what was motivating them to attend the event, and what they hoped would result from the event, if anything.

Here are some of those responses, which have been condensed and edited for clarity.

We also asked readers who are attending Trump’s inauguration about their reasons for making the journey to Washington.