Four Italy hotel avalanche survivors are rescued
Four survivors pulled from Italian hotel after avalanche


There are hopes that more survivors could be pulled from the Italian hotel hit by a massive avalanche on Wednesday, as rescuers reported hearing noises from beneath the snow.

Two men and two women were pulled from the ruins of Hotel Rigopiano, in Farindola, central Italy, overnight after hours of painstaking digging by firemen, who were having to move cautiously for fear the buried air pockets might collapse.

It comes after four children and a woman were saved on Friday, dug out from under tonnes of snow and debris in the remote valley in the Italian Alps.

Fire service spokesman Alberto Maiolo said rescuers had heard noises, but it was not clear whether they were caused by survivors still trapped under the tons of snow and debris.

Pictures have emerged of the moment a young girl in a pink jumper is pulled from the rubble by a smiling rescue worker on Friday

Four children were rescued on Friday, dug out from under tonnes of snow and debris in the remote valley in the Italian Alps

Italian rescue workers pull a young boy out of the snow. Rescue officer Marco Bini said: 'The snow insulated them and protected them from the freezing temperatures outside. It was like being in an igloo'

One of the three children that were rescued from the avalanche-hit Rigopiano Hotel late on Friday night is pictured in an ambulance

Rescuers are hopeful that more survivors could be pulled out after noises were heard from beneath the snow

He told Sky TG24 TV that the noises 'could be the drip of snow melt, material shifting' or from survivors.

Authorities believe that about 23 people are still missing from the avalanche that almost entirely buried the hotel.

Five people have been found dead following the avalanche disaster.

According to local media reports earlier in the day, rescuers have heard a number of other voices had been heard under the rubble, but that it was proving hard to establish where exactly they were.

There was no immediate confirmation of this from the emergency services.

However, rescue workers said pulling the nine survivors from the snow had raised hopes others would be found in similar air pockets.

'The snow insulated them and protected them from the freezing temperatures outside. It was like being in an igloo,' rescue officer Marco Bini said.

A girl carried to safety by rescue workers on Friday. A total of four children have been pulled out of the hotel

Rescue teams would continue to work night and day until everyone was accounted for, a fire brigade spokesman said

A woman is seen being pulled to safety by rescue workers on Friday, two days after an avalanche destroyed the hotel

Authorities believe that about 23 people are still missing from the avalanche that almost entirely buried the hotel

Rescue workers have been using shovels, saws and just their gloved hands in a hope to get to survivors

According to local media reports, rescuers have heard a number of other voices from under the rubble. These reports were unconfirmed

Pictured is one of the other children pulled out to safety on Friday. A total of nine survivors have now been pulled to safety

One of the female survivors who was pulled to safety on Friday, two days after the avalanche hit the hotel

Firefighters are continuing efforts to get to other potential survivors still trapped inside the Hotel Rigopiano

A firefighter climbs through an opening being used to access the hotel building, which was buried by tons of snow

Rescue workers said pulling the nine survivors from the snow had raised hopes others would be found in similar air pockets

He said the rescue team had been alerted to their possible location when they detected smoke from fires the group had lit to keep warm.

'They were all in reasonable health, if very cold,' he said. 'The fire will have been using up the oxygen so we were lucky to find them.

'Their faces said it all, it was like they had been reborn.'

Two hotel guests who were outside the building when the avalanche struck are also counted in the total number of 11 survivors.

Rescuers have pulled three more children alive from the ruins of an Italian hotel, two days after it was hit by an avalanche. Pictured is two of the three child survivors

Rescue workers cheer as they pull a youngster alive from the barricaded hotel after an avalanche hit it almost two days ago

One of the survivors is taken to hospital by helicopter after being pulled from the Hotel Rigopiano in Farindola, central Italy

A group of 10 people, including four children, were found alive after hiding in a kitchen of the barricaded hotel

So far, the bodies of three men and two women have been pulled out by rescue workers. The victims have not yet been identified.

A tsunami of snow smashed into the spa hotel on Wednesday afternoon, obliterating the four-storey building and spreading debris for hundreds of metres down the valley in the Gran Sasso park in the heart of Italy. Around 30 people are believed to have been in the hotel at the time.

Rescue teams would continue to work night and day until everyone was accounted for, Cari said.

However, authorities have been criticised by some of the families who are waiting desperately to find out news about their loved ones.

One man, identified as the father of Stefano Feniello, expressed his anger in front of television cameras, pointing at the cars of local officials.

Dozens of rescue workers can be seen using spades to dig their way through the snow in a bid to get to those still trapped

Other rescue teams can be seen working in the area around the Hotel Rigopiano that was hit by an avalanche on Wednesday

A team of rescue workers can be seen walking to the Hotel Rigopiano, near the village of Farindola

Rescue teams continued to dig in the hope of finding other survivors as more snow fell on Saturday

Rescue workers were pictured checking the rooms inside abandoned houses in villages and isolated areas in the Abruzzi mountains district

Rescue workers are pictured at their base in the nearby town of Penne, where the rescue operation is being co-ordinated

Two firefighters are pictured taking a nap in a sports hall in the town of Penne, which is currently being used as a base

Dramatic photographs show the levels of snow that hit remote areas in the Abruzzi mountains district, including two cars buried in the snow that ended up on their noses

He shouted: 'What are they doing? They aren't doing anything. Why didn't they go get the kids out the night before the disaster?'

He said he had been told that his son had survived, but officials had supplied no clear information by midday Saturday, nearly three days after the tragedy.

One of the children found on Friday is believed to be the daughter of a woman who was pulled out with her son earlier in the day, begging for rescuers to 'Find my little girl'.

Those who have been pulled from the snow were taken to hospitals in the cities of Pescara and Aquila.

Incredible footage emerged earlier in the day showing a mother and her eight-year-old son being rescued.

Emerging from the structure rescue crews patted the eight-year-old boy called Gianfilippo on the head in celebration before a woman, thought to be Adriana Vranceanu, emerged to chants of 'Brava Brava!' before she shouted 'Find my daughter!'

The survivors appeared fully alert and walking on their own. Both were helped down to a stretcher for the helicopter ride out.

They are the family of cook Giampiero Parete who escaped the avalanche after going to fetch headache tablets from his car for his wife when it hit.

Those who have been pulled from the snow were taken to hospitals in the cities of Pescara and Aquila

Late on Friday night, civil protection chief Fabrizio Cari said five people have been pulled to safety, including four children

Rescue teams pull a woman to safety after she was found alive in the Hotel Rigopiano, 40 hours after it was hit by an avalanche

The young boy was fully alert as he made his way out of the hotel and was then put on a helicopter to be taken to hospital

Rescue teams desperately worked to pull survivors from the Hotel Rigopiano on Friday, after an avalanche buried the building

The rescued mother is Adriana Parete and her son, who are the family of cook Giampiero Parete who escaped the avalanche after going to fetch headache tablets from his car for his wife when it hit. Their six-year-old daughter is believed to be among the children that have also now been pulled out

Simona Di Carlo, the aunt of Edoardo Di Carlo, one of three children pulled out from the hotel

A doctor treating the Paretes told a press conference: 'Mr Parete's wife and son are in excellent condition. They have light hypothermia and dehydration and they're being monitored overnight.

'Mr Parete has been dismissed but has chosen to be with his wife and child.

'They survived because they had access to the heavy clothing in their suitcases and because they were not in contact with the snow but inside a room that was closed off.

'They are also getting psychological help because it was a very traumatic situation.'

Mr and Mrs Parete's six-year-old daughter Ludovica is believed to be among the children that have also now been pulled out of the hotel by rescue teams.

It means that all four children thought to have been trapped inside the hotel have now been rescued, including one who asked for her favourite biscuits after being pulled out.

A group made a fire to keep warm and eaten food they found in cupboards in the kitchen.

Other guests had sought refuge in the bar and billiards area of the four-storey building.

Among the survivors are Eduardo Di Carlo, eight, and his parents Sebastiano and Nadia, both 48, who own a pizzeria in the nearby town of Penne.

Last night the boy's grandfather Giovanni Di Carlo told the Daily Mail: 'It's the miracle we prayed for. All three are alive.'

A rescue worker said those that were pulled free were were speechless after being saved.

In addition the hotel's dogs Wolf and Cloud, were also pulled alive from the building and are being cared for by a hotel worker who had earlier escaped.

Firefighters work at Hotel Rigopiano in Farindola, as they try to dig the snow away from the building using just shovels

Rescue work continued throughout last night, but authorities say the prospects of anyone being rescued alive looked bleak

Rescue teams have located the group hiding in a kitchen of the barricaded hotel but are have difficulty pulling them to safety until specialist equipment arrives

An aerial view showing the search area rescue teams are working at to free people trapped inside a hotel hit by an avalanche

Rescue crews located more than eight people alive in the rubble of an avalanche-crushed hotel on Friday, an incredible discovery that boosted spirits two days after the massive snow slide buried around 30 people in the resort

Rescue teams said there was still hope of finding survivors after a barrage of snow hit the Hotel Rigopiano in the village of Farindola on Wednesday ripping the three-storey building from its foundations and moving it ten metres.

Fire brigade spokesman Luca Cari said: 'They are alive and we are talking to them.'

A rescue helicopter swoops down towards the hotel in central Italy that had been buried under an avalanche since Wednesday

Rescue workers attempt to get to the scene of the hotel by ploughing through the snow which is up to 15 feet deep

Some of the survivors pulled from the hotel arrive by helicopter at an airport in Pescara before being taken to hospital for treatment

A tracked vehicle of the Italian army brings rescuers for the operation in the area was hit by an avalanche in Farindola

HOTEL'S SHEEPDOGS SURVIVE DEADLY AVALANCHE Two victims that were caught up in the Italian avalanche that had a happy ending were the Hotel Rigopiano's dogs, who have been reunited with their puppies. Lupo and Nuvola (Wolf and Cloud), a pair of shaggy white Abruzzo sheepdogs who were born and raised in the ill-fated hotel, were initially feared to have perished in Wednesday's tragedy. But they were found on Thursday ambling along a road in Villa Cupoli, a hamlet more than two miles away, according to resident Martina Rossi, who worked at the hotel but was not there when the avalanche struck. Earlier today, the hotel's dogs Wolf and Cloud were found alive after previously going missing after the avalanche. This picture of the dogs was posted on Facebook overnight She told the AFP news agency: 'I saw them in the street about 9.30 pm on Thursday night, and my heart started beating very fast. 'I called their names and they recognised me, I was so happy. I have no idea how they got there.' With the hotel owner among the people missing under the ruins, the dogs have been taken in by another local resident who had just adopted a litter of puppies Nuvola had recently given birth to. Also known as the Maremmano, the Abruzzo sheepdog breed is known for its photogenic appearance with the puppies resembling furry Polar bear cubs. Their white coats are the result of selective breeding in their native regions of Abruzzo and the Tuscan Maremma. The colour enabled them to blend in with sheep flocks they were assigned to protect from wolves.

People waiting outside the hospital in Pescara began hugging after hearing survivors had been found at the avalanche hit hotel

A supermarket in the Italian town of Penne, close to where the avalanche occurred partially collapsed following a series of earthquakes and snow

A man walks in the town of Penne, central Italy, following a series an avalanches that have left five people dead

A firefighter walks inside Hotel Rigopiano in the part that has become accessible since the avalanche hit the building

A firefighter working at the hotel in Farindola opens a door to find snow packed together outside as he searches for survivors

Two bodies have been extracted from the rubble and two survivors suffering from hypothermia taken to hospital

The names of those believed to have been trapped in the hotel began to emerge on Friday.

Husband and wife Corporal Luciano and his wife Silvana Angelucci were among the people identified as staying in the hotel.

The couple who are both hairdressers and run a well-known beauty spa in the region Chieti , had only arrived at the hotel on Sunday.

Another couple, Marco Vagnarelli and Paola Tomassini, were also believed to have been trapped in the avalanche of snow.

The pair, who are from Castignano, messaged Mr Vagnarelli's brother to say they couldn't leave the hotel due to the weather conditions.

Among the others believed to have been trapped are Alessandro Ricetti, 33, hotel employee Emanuele Bonifazi, as well as other couple Jessica Tinari and Marco Tanda.

Others reported missing included Stefano Feniello, 28, and Francesca Bronzes, 25, as well as hotel employee Ilaria Di Biase.

Police chief Domenico DiMichelangelo, alongside his wife Marina and their seven-year-old son, were among those trapped

Husband and wife Corporal Luciano and his wife Silvana Angelucci who work as hairdressers were also reported missing

Marco Vagnarelli and Paola Tomassini, from Castignano, were believed to have been trapped by the avalanche

Stefano Feniello, 28, and Francesca Bronzes, 25, were in the hotel at the time that the avalanche struck

Hotel employees Emanuele Bonifazi, left, and Ilaria Di Biase, were also reported missing following the disaster

Special army mountain rescue teams were seen riding in vehicles with caterpillar tracks following the disaster.

'A small avalanche has created a wall of snow across the path to the hotel, we are heading up there now to knock it down,' said army Major Nicola Cappozolo.

'As long as there is hope of finding survivors we'll be there'

Italian broadcasters showed images of piles of masonry and rubble in the entrance area of what they dubbed a 'coffin hotel'.

Giampaolo Parete, 38, a chef who was on vacation there, was one of two people rescued from the three-storey hotel.

A rescuer arrives at the wrecked Hotel Rigopiano and looks up the mountainside where the avalanche hurtled down the slope yesterday

Rescuers have been digging through the huge piles of snow which crashed down onto the hotel when the snow came down the mountain

Up to 30 people are feared dead after an Italian ski hotel was buried by an avalanche during a series of earthquakes

Italy's Civil Protection Agency said there had been around 30 guests and staff at the hotel on the eastern lower slopes of the Gran Sasso mountain

Dramatic pictures from inside the hotel show how part of the building collapsed under the weight of the avalanche

Rescue workers continued to search for victims at the Hotel Rigopiano in the town of Farindola

The desperate phone call made by a chef who survived the disaster has been revealed. He told his boss: 'Help me, an avalanche has hit and the hotel isn't there anymore. It's disappeared'

Rescuers were met with an eerie silence today as they arrived at the Hotel Rigopiano and began digging through the snow in an attempt to find survivors (pictured)

A police helicopter dropped off food supplies for rescuers at the scene of the disaster

His boss, restaurant owner Quintino Marcella, said he received a phone call at 5.30pm on Wednesday.

He said: 'He calls me and says 'Help me, an avalanche has hit and the hotel isn't there anymore. It's disappeared. It's buried. Two of us are here but call rescue crews.'''

Marcella said he immediately called police and the prefecture's emergency coordination centre, but the prefect's office assured him that the hotel had phoned two or three hours earlier reporting everything was OK.

Marcella said he frantically tried to call other emergency numbers but no one took him seriously. Speaking on Sky TG24, he said only hours later, after 8pm, did the response begin.

He said his chef kept saying 'Help, help, help, help.'

He told an Italian newspaper, La Repubblica, the group had all checked out of the Hotel Rigopiano and had gathered in the lobby.

But heavy snow had made the road outside impassable and they were waiting for a snow plough to clear a path up to the hotel.

As they waited in the foyer the avalanche cascaded down the mountainside, smashing into the hotel and burying them under a huge pile of snow.

Marcella told La Repubblica: 'Giampaolo and all the other guests had paid and had reached the lobby, ready to go as soon as the snow plough arrived.'

'They had already prepared suitcases. All the customers wanted to leave.'

Earlier, it emerged that a father had survived the tragedy because he left to get headache medicine from his car for his wife when the avalanche hit the building.

But he told doctors the wall of snow had buried his wife and two children.

The four-storey hotel was completely buried in snow after the avalanche hit on Wednesday

Shocking images from inside the hotel show how snow had cascaded down stairways and corridors

Up to 30 people are feared to have been killed after an Italian ski hotel was buried by an avalanche during a series of earthquakes

There are reports this morning that as many as 30 people - guests and staff- are missing after the avalanche crashed in to the three-storey hotel, shifting it up to 30ft

A man is escorted by Alpine policemen and a fireman outside the Hotel Rigopiano, near the village of Farindola

A road block is in place preventing people from entering the village where the tragedy struck

Rescuers, who have begun extracting bodies after battling through blizzard conditions to reach the hotel on skis or by helicopter, say there were no signs of life inside the building

Rescuers have started the grim task of excavating snow from the interior of the building

Another photograph shows the snow filling up the inside of the Hotel Rigopiano

A photograph shows the damage done inside the spa hotel after it was buried by the avalanche

Separate aerial video shows how a column of rescue vehicles attempting to reach the remote community had become completely stuck in huge snow drifts

A snow-plough truck made its way through the snow in order to reach the Rigopiano Hotel

A rescue convoy became stuck in snow drifts as emergency crews scrambled to reach the village

The Hotel Rigopiano pictured before the devastating avalanche hit yesterday (file photo)

Emergency crews were eventually able to fund a way in to the Hotel Rigopiano, which has been crushed by an avalanche

Police released images showing the damage done to the interior of the hotel following the avalanche

The hotel is located around 55 miles from the epicentre of the earthquakes yesterday

Pictures emerging from the scene show how rescuers are having to contend with mountains of snow

Rescuers used shovels as they attempted to clear a pathway to the hotel where dozens are feared to have been buried

An ambulance was blocked several miles from the hotel, according to Sky, while footage showed emergency services helicopters in the air near the scene

Rescue teams seen arriving in the town of Farindola, central Italy, following the disaster

A rescue truck making its way through Farindola, as another vehicle is seen buried in the snow

Blizzards in the area were hampering rescue operations as helicopters were brought in

A rescuer carries food supplied by an Italian Police helicopter in front of the hotel

A base camp for rescue workers has been set up in the nearby town of Penne (pictured)

A car is buried in snow in Penne, which is about six miles away from Farindola

A soldier pictured in the town of Amatrice after a 5.7-magnitude earthquake struck the region

Farindola mayor Ilario Lacchetta said on his Facebook page that 'the dimensions of the avalanche were huge

Rescuers have been facing tough conditions as they attempt to reach the scene of the avalanche

Video footage showed rescuers with shovels digging through a wall of snow, and at least one man being led through the cleared path

Tractors with snow ploughs are being used in a desperate bid to clear roads in the area

EUROPE'S DEADLY AVALANCHES Avalanches are a recurring threat in Europe's mountain ranges, and have claimed dozens of lives in the past 20 years: - 2016 - FRANCE: Six deaths Six French legionnaires on a training mission in the Cerces range near the Italian border died on January 18 when they were caught at an altitude of more than 6,000 feet. ITALY: Six deaths Five Italians and an Austrian who were mountain climbing died on March 12 when a 300 yard snowslide swept them away at an altitude of more than 10,800ft in the Monte Nevoso region near the border with Austria. - 2015 - FRANCE: 13 deaths Four French men and two women were ski touring on January 24 in the Queyras range in eastern France when they were killed by an avalanche. And on September 15 four Germans and three Czechs who were climbing in three teams died when an avalanche broke loose on the Dome de Neige des Écrins, a 13,170-foot peak in the French Alps. The summit is popular with tourists because it is readily accessible. - 2012 - FRANCE: Nine deaths Nine climbers from Britain, Germany, Spain and Switzerland were killed on July 12 as they tried to scale the north face of Mont Maudit in the Mont-Blanc range in the French Alps. - 2002 - RUSSIA: 127 deaths On September 20, a huge mass of rock and ice broke off a glacier and crushed the village of Nizhny Karmadon in the Caucasian republic of North Ossetia, leaving 127 people dead or missing. They included Sergei Bodrov junior, son of a prominent Russian director of the same name, who was filming with a crew when the disaster struck. The glacier lies at an altitude of more than 8,000 ft between two peaks, Mount Kazbek 6,500 ft and the Elbruz 18,480 ft. The region's president said millions of cubic metres of ice had cascaded over a distance of 20 miles. - 2000 - AUSTRIA: 12 deaths On March 28, an avalanche killed 11 young ski instructors and a snow surfer on the Kitzsteinhorn, 50 miles southeast of Salzbourg. - 1999 - AUSTRIA: 38 deaths A huge avalanche buried several houses and killed 31 people at the Galtuer ski area in western Austria's Tyrol region on February 23. The next day, another slide killed seven more people in the nearby village of Valzur. FRANCE: 12 deaths On February 9, an avalanche swept away around 20 chalets near the village of Tour, in the Chamonix valley near Mont Blanc, killing 12 people. - 1998 - FRANCE: 11 deaths Nine teenagers, a teacher and an instructor were killed as they were snow-shoeing on January 23 at an altitude of 7,200 ft near the Orres ski area in the southern French Alps.