Stoke City 1-1 Manchester United: Premier League – as it happened

. A deserved point for Manchester United , and a piece of history for Wayne Rooney. Disappointment for Stoke, who looked to have done enough, but they just couldn’t hold it at at the end. Thanks for reading. Bye!      Wayne Rooney breaks Bobby Charlton's Man United scoring record . Here’s the man himself: “It’s a great honour. I’m very proud. It’s difficult at the minute to be too pleased because of the result, but it’s a huge honour for me and something I never expected. “It’s been great. Very successful and a lot more to come. I’m really proud and hopefully there’s more to come. “Today could be vital for us come the end of the season. There’s a long way to go but we just have to try to keep picking up points”      . Wayne Rooney came up big right at the end with a superb direct free kick to score his 250th Manchester United goal, become the club’s all-time record goalscorer, and earn his time a fully merited point. Stoke just couldn’t hang on.      Full-time: Stoke 1-1 Manchester United That’s it.      What a superb free kick from Rooney. Grant was completely fooled. And a deserved point for the visitors! Updated       GOAL! Stoke 1-1 Manchester United (Rooney 90+4) Brilliant! Rooney snatches an equaliser direct from the free kick, and breaks Man United’s scoring record! Incredible! Updated       Rashford is taken down by Allen, cynically. Big chance here for United from the set piece. On the corner of the penalty box, left side. Everyone is forward.      Jones looks long for Lingard, but again it’s overhit.      Rashford fizzes one across the face of goal, but no United player attacked it.      Five minutes of stoppage time. Still a chance for the visitors.      Rashford fouls Johnson by the corner flag. Stoke are minutes away from a famous victory. It’d be wrong to say they’ve deserved it, but they’ve battled hard. Can United find a late equaliser?      Lingard hits the crossbar! He found a yard of space 20 yards from goal, and hit it well, but it clipped the top of the bar as Grant stood and watched. Stoke’s final sub: Arnautovic is replaced by Imboula. Updated       Pogba runs through the middle after Whelan tried to foul him, but he gets the shot all wrong. Time running out for United.      Shout for a penalty from Man United – did Shawcross handball it? Clattenburg said no, but that was intemperate from Shawcross; that could easily have gone against him.      Stoke look knackered. They’ve covered so much ground in this second half. Arnautovic concedes yet another corner.      Valencia teased it in, Herrera got up well, and Rooney headed the follow-up over the bar. Decent chance. Updated       This is completely one-way traffic. Can Stoke hold on?      Pogba with a blast! He hit it well, with his left foot, but Grant had it covered, and saw it behind for a goal kick.      Rashford with a chance! Rooney crossed from the right, Rashford was free on the edge of the box, and tried to place it, but it was a foot wide.      Stoke can’t get out of their own half, but United just can’t find a way through. Rooney looks for Lingard, but it’s just slightly overhit, and out of play.      Final change for United, and perhaps a strange one: Lingard replaces Mkhitaryan. Stoke with a substitution, too: Shaqiri off, Ngoy on.      A rare Stoke attack is defended well by Man United, and the visitors come again. Stoke are under serious pressure here.      United are seeing all of the ball. They’re now 4-2-4, with Rooney and Ibrahimovic up front, Rashford wide left, and Mkhitaryan on the right.      Rooney replaces Mata. In the stands, Bobby Charlton, whose 249-goal Man United record Rooney shares, watches on.      Pogba feeds Mkhitaryan, who shoots for goal, but he can’t get the power, and Grant saves easily. Updated       Rashford is completely blocked off on the edge of the box by Shawcross, and Mark Clattenburg says no. Rashford can’t believe it, and neither can I.      Change for Stoke: Afellay replaces Charlie Adam.      Rashford has gone out to the left flank, and looks to have the beating of Johnson. Expect United to give him plenty of the ball. Elsewhere, Pieters is booked for some infraction or other.      Now then. Was that handball by Stoke in the box? Pogba and Mata combined well, and Pieters slid in on the edge of the six-yard box. The ball definitely bounced on to his trailing hand, but it looked like a pure accident, and Clattenburg said no.      Johnson heads behind under no pressure. Corner for United, but Stoke hammer it clear.      Pogba runs through an empty hole in the Stoke midfield, and feeds Ibrahimovic with a clever through ball, but the Swede had gone too early, and he’s correctly pulled up for offside. Stoke need to stop this United train, though.      Charlie Adam is spoken to after a late tackle on Ibrahimovic. Fellaini, who’s done OK, is replaced by Marcus Rashford in Man United’s first change.      Joe Allen goes down in the box, and Stoke fans scream for a penalty, but Mark Clattenburg says no. The right decision.      Fellaini and Adam, two of this game’s spunkier characters, are involved in a midfield dispute. Warning: contains mild peril.      Fellaini heads back across goal, and Mata misses with an acrobatic volley. But United have really shown some purpose in this second half. Stoke are already on the back foot. Updated       Arnautovic is penalised for handball, and this is a good chance for United from the free kick. Mata crosses, but it’s headed clear by Martins Indi.      Mkhitaryan’s been excellent today. He’s taken up some fine positions, and he’s such a quick dribbler. Another nice link-up with Mata, but Stoke get bodies back.      Good start from United. Mkhitaryan dribbles into the box, and Stoke look at sixes and sevens, but Ibrahimovic is whistled for an offside when he was probably on.      We’re back. Fellaini and Mata are still on the field – for the time being.      . United have had all the ball in the last 20 minutes or so, but just couldn’t get the goal their play merited. And Juan Mata’s had a bad day: an own goal followed by an open-goal miss. It wasn’t quite Ronny Rosenthal-esque, but it was bad enough. United should be level, but they’re not. See you in a short while!      Half-time: Stoke 1-0 Manchester United That’s the whistle.      Chance for Stoke on the break, but Shaqiri’s ball for Crouch is rotten. One minute of added time.      A minute till half-time, and Stoke could do with a break. Philip Brennan has a prediction: “Ibrahimovic will score the winner in 93rd minute.”      And another save from Grant to deny Pogba! Stoke left Pogba totally unmarked, and he absolutely laced one on the volley, but it was straight at the goalie. Stoke hanging on a bit now.      United win a free kick right on the corner of the box, left side. In by Blind, Shawcross heads clear, and then Fellaini works Grant on the follow-up. Decent effort on the volley, but he hit it into the ground, and Grant was able to tip it over the bar. Topics  Premier League   Manchester United   Stoke City

Queensland Cabinet reshuffle: Mark Furner to replace Stirling Hinchliffe after resignation

Updated

Member for Ferny Grove Mark Furner will be elevated to State Cabinet to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of former transport minister Stirling Hinchliffe.

Although Mr Furner is a first term Queensland MP with the smallest margin of any Government seat, the 58-year-old is an experienced politician having served six years as a senator from 2008 to 2014.

He is not expected to take over the transport portfolio, which could return to the control of Deputy Premier and former, now acting Transport Minister Jackie Trad, or be combined with the roads portfolio held by Mark Bailey.

Mr Furner defeated Logan MP Linus Power in the right faction vote for the Cabinet spot, which will be endorsed tomorrow by Caucus when Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk announces the details of what she said would be a minor reshuffle.

Mr Hinchliffe's other portfolio — the Commonwealth Games — could be handed back to Education, Tourism and Major Events Minister Kate Jones.

The reshuffle will the third in two years for the Palaszczuk ministry.

The Premier expanded her cabinet at the end of 2015 after the resignation of Jo-Ann Miller, and rejigged the line-up again in November when Leanne Donaldson was forced to quit.

Mark Bailey open to change in portfolio

Minister for Main Roads, Road Safety and Ports as well as Energy, Biofuels and Water Supply Mark Bailey said he was willing to consider adding transport to his responsibilities.

"That is a matter for the Premier to make, and I have absolute faith that the Premier will make a wise, and absolutely on-the-money decision on this, and there's a range of options there for her, " he said.

"I'm willing to serve the Government in any way that the Premier best thinks I can serve, so I am open to it."

Mr Bailey said he had not talked with Ms Palaszczuk about a potential change.

"I haven't at this stage, but the Premier will make the decision," he said.

"There are a number of people who have absolutely got the abilities and skill and talent to do it, and it will be a matter for her to make that call."

Topics: state-parliament, rail-transport, states-and-territories, government-and-politics, qld

First posted