Clockwatch: Premier League, Ghana v Mali, and more – as it happened

And that’ll be your lot from today. Thanks for reading all, and remember to stick with Rob Smyth’s minute-by-minute of Manchester City v Tottenham , which is bubbling along nicely. Be safe out there. Good night.      Full-time: Ghana 1-0 Mali Ghana just about hang on, and they’re through to the quarter-finals with that win against Mali. Just like their first game they went ahead in the first-half, this time through Asamoah Gyan, and just like their first game they hung on in the second, their opponents possibly deserving more.      Again! Bacary Sako hits a free-kick, it thunks into the wall and goes back to him, he tries another shot but Razak goes brilliantly to his left to save. Tense final seconds in Gabon...      What a save by Ghana keeper Razak - a Doumbia shot flies into the area, Coulibaly deflects it towards goal but the keeper gets down to his right and pushes it away. Injury-time now - can Mali break through?      Asamoah Gyan has just been booked for taking too long about being substituted. Textbook stuff.      Mali getting more and more into the game now. Kalifia Coulibaly is the latest to go close with a header at the far post. Ghana digging in and sitting deep, just as they did in their previous game against Uganda.      Premier League match reports Liverpool 2-3 Swansea Bournemouth 2-2 Watford Crystal Palace 0-1 Everton Middlesbrough 1-3 West Ham Stoke City 1-1 Man Utd West Brom 2-0 Sunderland      A wee video to celebrate Wayne Rooney’s 250th, and record goal for Manchester United. They do work quickly these vid editors, don’t they...      Yer Manchester City v Spurs minute-by-minute is over here . Rob Smyth has your back. Get stuck in.      It cannot be overstressed how bad the pitch is in Ghana v Mali - Mamoutou N’Diaye looks to get around that by heading towards goal, but it goes just over the bar. Updated       The boss speaks... The best 1half and worst 2half. Hurting. #UTV      In the Africa Cup of Nations , Ghana are still ahead but Mali just had a glorious chance to equalise, Moussa Marega blazing over from the edge of the six-yard box.      Full-time: Real Madrid 2-1 Malaga All done at the Bernabeu, and Real have won 2-1. Holding on a bit, but that’s three points they needed after two straight defeats.      League Two full-time scores Wycombe v Luton has now finished. Crawley v Portsmouth and Leyton Orient v Morecambe were postponed.      League One full-time scores      Championship full-time scores      Full-time: Middlesbrough 1-3 West Ham And that’s that, West Ham taking a convincing three points in the end.      Full-time: West Brom 2-0 Sunderland A routine victory for the Baggies as goals from Brunt and Fletcher are enough.      Full-time: Stoke City 1-1 Manchester United Rooney’s free-kick and record-breaking goal gets a point for United after the early own-goal had put Stoke ahead.      GOAL! Middlesbrough 1-3 West Ham (Callieri 90) And that’s that at the Riverside, as Jonathan Callieri wraps up the points for West Ham over Boro. Updated       Full-time - Bournemouth 2-2 Watford A well-earned point for Bournemouth as they come from behind to nab a 2-2 draw at home.      Full-time - Crystal Palace 0-1 Everton Sam is still winless, as Seamus Coleman gives Everton a 1-0 win.      GOAL! Stoke City 1-1 Manchester United (Rooney 90mins + 4) And there you go. Wayne Rooney has broken the Manchester United scoring record with an exceptional free-kick, and has in all likelihood saved a point for his side. Updated       Late, late, late goal for Cardiff, and Rhys Healey has scored in the 91st minute to (probably) give them a win over Burton.      Half-time in Gabon, and Ghana remain 1-0 ahead thanks to that lovely glancing header by Gyan.      United are hammering on the door like a persistent door-to-door door salesman - Jesse Lingard twangs one against the bar, and they’ve only got a few more minutes to break through.      GOAL! Crystal Palace 0-1 Everton (Coleman 86) Oh Sam, mate. No wins for the big man, it looks like, as Seamus Coleman dinks a finish over Wayne Hennessey to give Everton the lead over Palace. Updated       Oh, wait a second - Yakou Meite has pulled one back for Reading against Derby, making it 3-2. Ten minutes left there, could be a finish on our hands.      Newcastle are moonwalking away with the points against Rotherham - Jonjo Shelvey sets up Matt Ritchie, and he makes it 4-0.      GOAL! Bournemouth 2-2 Watford (Afobe 82) And another comeback - this time Bournemouth have waltzed back from being behind and Benik Afobe has levelled things for them Cherries. Updated       Yeeesh - Preston have come back to equalise, Jordan Hugill has his second of the day to make it 2-2 with Aston Villa. Topics  Premier League   La Liga   European club football   Africa Cup of Nations   Africa Cup of Nations 2017

On a busy day of football, Wayne Rooney broke Manchester United’s goalscoring record, Real Madrid beat Malaga and Ghana made it through to the Africa Cup of Nations quarter-finals