Donald Trump, day two: 'Half a million' join Women's March on Washington, as new US president gets to work undoing Obamacare
Donald Trump, day two: 'Half a million' join Women's March on Washington, as new US president gets to work undoing Obamacare
n estimated half a million people packed into downtown Washington on Saturday for the Women's March in opposition to newly inaugurated President Donald Trump . Wearing pink, pointy-eared "pussyhats" to mock the new president, the hundreds of thousands of women massed in Washington  and around the globe sent Donald Trump an emphatic message that they won't let his agenda go unchallenged over the next four years. Women brandished signs with messages such as "Women won't back down" and "Less fear more love" and decried Trump's stand on such issues as abortion, health care, gay rights, diversity and climate change. Their message reverberated at demonstrations around the world, from New York, Philadelphia and Chicago to Paris, Berlin, London, Prague, Sydney and beyond. There was even a march in Antarctica. In all it is estimated there were protests in more than 600 cities across the globe. stimates for the turnout in the US capital more than doubled on the day, from initial predictions of about 200,000, amid speculation more people could show up for the protest than did for the inauguration event on Friday. The city's subway reported 275,000 trips by 11am, compared to 193,000 on inauguration day. In London police blocked access to Trafalgar Square because of the sheer volume of people in the area, with organisers announcing on stage that 80,000-100,000 people had taken part in the event. V Presenter Sandi Toksvig and Labour MP Yvette Cooper addressed crowds, while London mayor Sadiq Khan was also in attendance. Yvette Cooper said: "When the most powerful man in the world says it's okay to sexually assault women because you are rich and powerful, we have to stand up and say no way." ctress America Ferrera told the Washington crowd: "We march today for the moral core of this nation, against which our new president is waging a war. "Our dignity, our character, our rights have all been under attack and a platform of hate and division assumed power yesterday. But the president is not America. ... We are America and we are here to stay." During his inauguration speech on Friday, Trump vowed to work for the good of the US worker, saying: "Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families." But the speech did little to unify deeply-divided Americans. uring the inauguration ceremony the nation's capital was rocked by violent protest , with black-clad anti-establishment activists smashing windows, setting vehicles on fire and fighting with riot-gear-clad police who responded with stun grenades. The organisers of Saturday's march said they had extensive security plans in place, and would have both visible and hard-to-spot security workers along the route. r Trump quickly assumed the mantle of the White House on Friday, making his first executive order one aimed at his predecessor's signature healthcare law and swearing-in members of his national security team to his Cabinet.  March mocked by son of Donald Trump's National Security Adviser ichael Flynn Jr, the son of Donald Trump's National Adviser , Michael Flynn, has little time for the marchers, taking to Twitter to mock them. What victory? Women already have equal rights, and YES equal pay in this country. What MORE do you want? Free mani/pedis? #WomensMarch  https://t.co/t5UonJJZdj  Marches  "overwhelming" says Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood ecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood which is  in the sights of the new administration, hailed what she described as the biggest marches she had seen in her lifetime. "It's been overwhelming, not only in Washington DC, but around the world," she said on CNN. "Literally millions of people were marching for women's rights. This is not the end, it is just the beginning." Hidden Figures actress backs protest anellle Monae, one of the stars of the film Hidden Figures - the story of three black women who worked on the NASA space programme  in the 1960s, was among the speakers at the Washington rally. elling the crowd that she was the granddaughter of a sharecropper and the daughter of a janitor, she said she was there to honour their memory. She then led the crowd in chants of Sandra Bland, the black woman who died in a Texas prison after being arrested during a routine road stop in 2015. Red faces at Twitter after Obama followers transferred to Trump POTUS account witter has apologised after millions of Twitter followers of Barack Obama's official POTUS account were transferred automatically to his successor, Donald Trump. Read more here Trump's press secretary lets rip ean Spicer's first press conference as Donald Trump's official spokesman was a lively affair. He used his appearance before journalists to round on the press over reports that Mr Trump had removed a bust of Martin Luther King from the Oval Office - which he emphatically denied. he new press secretary was also unhappy at coverage of the size of the crowd attending Mr Trump's inauguration, which appeared to be considerably smaller than that for Barack Obama in 2009. However Mr Spicer accused the media of "working to minimise the enormous support" Mr Trump had. The reports, he said, were "shameful and wrong". Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren calls for fightback ne of Mr Trump's most vocal critics, left wing Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren, said the sight of the billionaire being sworn into office was a sight “now burned into my eyes forever.” Speaking in Boston Senator Warren, who many Democrats wish had challenged Hillary Clinton for the nomination, was determined to rally resistance against the new president. “We can whimper, we can whine, or we can fight back. Me? I’m here to fight back,”  she said. “We come here to stand shoulder to shoulder to make clear: We are here, we will not be silent, we will not play dead, we will fight for what we believe in.” Meanwhile, the president is addressing the CIA n his first full day in office Mr Trump visited CIA headquarters in Langey, Virignia to build bridges with the agency. Speaking to 400 members of the CIA he denied any "feud" with them. He said: "I love you, I respect you you, and you're going to be leading the charge. "I'm with you 1,000 per cent. We are all on the same wave length." Mr Trump added: "We have to get rid of Isis. Radical Islamic terrorism has to be eradicated off the face of the Earth. This is evil. We are going to end it." He called Mr Pompeo a "total star" and said Democrats were "doing little political games" by delaying his confirmation as CIA Director. Madonna talks about blowing up the White House adonna told the crowd in Washington: "Yes, I’m angry. Yes, I am outraged. Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House. "But I know this won’t change anything. We cannot fall into despair." The view in New York Live look from the Grand Central Concourse: NYC #WomensMarch goes on like this for miles. pic.twitter.com/gRsZUc6vCx  Madonna takes the stage adonna tells the audience: "Are you ready to shake up the world? Welcome to the revolution, to the rebellion, to our refusal as women to accept this age of tyranny. "Not just women are in danger but all marginalised people. It took this horrific moment of darkness to wake us up. "Good did not win this election but good will win in the end. "The revolution starts here, the fight for the right to be free, to be who we are. We will march together through this darkness and know that with each step we are not afraid." Crowds too big for formal march in Washington massive turnout at the Women's March on Washington has forced a change of plans, Associated Press reports: With the entire planned route filled with hundreds of thousands of protesters, organisers can't lead a formal march toward the White House. That's according to a District of Columbia official, speaking on condition of anonymity because the official isn't authorised to speak for the march. The official says that shortly before 1pm, people were standing along the entire march route. While there will be no formal march led from the protest stage near the Capitol, the crowd is still expected to move toward the Ellipse, an area of the National Mall in front of the White House. The official says there could be more than half a million people on the Mall, but it's difficult to estimate because low cloud cover is making aerial photographs impossible. Chicago march cancelled for safety concerns o many people turned out for the women's march in Chicago that organisers had to cancel the march portion, Associated Press reports. They say the planned march through downtown was no longer possible due to public safety concerns, but they instead extended the rally at Grant Park. Dorothy DeCarlo was among the throngs of people who gathered near the park. The 69-year-old burned her bra for women's rights in college 50 years ago and said it was shameful that Saturday's marches and rallies were even necessary. "I thought we took the bruises. I thought it was over," she said. Video: Trumps attend interfaith prayer service The protest in New York  Trump gets a view of the protesters resident Donald Trump is getting a view of the protesters in town for the Women's March from the window of his limo, Associated Press reports. Trump's motorcade was on its way back to the White House from a prayer service when he passed several prominent groups of protesters. As he crossed one intersection, cars started honking loudly. Some of the protesters held up signs that likened women's rights to human rights. It's a nod to a famous speech that former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton gave in China as first lady. Other signs read "We stand with Planned Parenthood." Pictures show the crowded subways lot of protesters are stuck on transport trying to get to marches around the US.  Women's March reaches the National Mall Protests grow around the country erial footage from other cities around the US are also showing huge turnout: Aerial footage shows crowds gathered for Women's March in Boston, MA https://t.co/MIVYbJqJrQ  pic.twitter.com/OZhbIgLSoY The #WomensMarch in downtown St. Louis! This is what democracy looks like. pic.twitter.com/mzb5xMZUKC We’re in a helicopter high over the #WomensMarch in Chicago. Watch on Facebook Live https://t.co/GDmAzq0f6k  pic.twitter.com/EmQJbjzBtu  'This is the first day I've really felt proud since the election' elegraph Washington reporter reports from the Women's March: There were thousands of banners and placards, their messages ranging from "the future is female" to "not my president". The most in-demand accessory was the "pussyhat", complete with cat ears, a reference to an infamous line from Mr Trump that emerged during the campaign. The metro platforms to travel into the city were so packed, and the trains so full, that thousands of marchers made the miles-long journey into downtown Washington on foot. A pink-hatted procession crossed Memorial Bridge and wound past workers still clearing up after Donald Trump's inaugural concert. Jillian Kavanaugh, a 29-year-old nurse, travelled overnight from Massachusetts with her mother and cousins. As the crowd snaked past the White House, she said her message to Donald Trump was "we're not going to take this quietly." "I find him offensive as a woman, but also my husband is an immigrant and I have patients that are completely dependent on Obamacare," she said. "I just had to be here." Independence Avenue was filled with women, but also men and children as far as the eye could see with an hour to go until the march, the excitement building as activists took the stage to spread a message of resistance. "This is just so inspiring," remarked Claudia Jacobs, 66, of Houston, Texas. "This is the first day I've really felt proud since the election." The previous day's protests had been marred by violence and vandalism, with 6 police officers injured and smoke billowing from a torched limousine. The route of the women's march passed near boarded up storefronts that had been smashed by a black-clad mob. Protesters had hurled bricks at police, who responded with tear gas and pepper spray. By the end of the night more than 200 had been arrested and the streets were lined with national guard troops preparing for further clashes. Those chaotic scenes could not have been further from the bright colours and genuine enthusiasm on display on Saturday. 'I am honered' says Trump t turns out being president of the United States does not automatically make you any better at spelling: he error was quickly corrected and the offending tweet deleted but not before it sparked a war of words between the 'spelling nazis' and Trump supporters... @realDonaldTrump I HAVE THE BEST TYPOS! NOBODY HAS BETTER TYPOS THAN ME! SAD! @realDonaldTrump Barron give daddy back his phone @tonyposnanski why don't you get out and get a job snowflake e at Telegraph towers are reserving our judgment as we know very well that Murphy's Law dictates that any post about spelling must contain at least one splelling error. Gloria Steinem: 'This is the upside of the downside' ight-two-year-old feminist icon Gloria Steinem told the crowd in Washington "This is the upside of the downside. This is an outpouring of democracy like I’ve never seen in my very long life".  Washington subway reports 275,000 trips by 11am he Washinton subway has  reported 275,000 trips by 11am, as people from across America flood into the capital to join the Women's March on the White House. The figures are much higher than for inauguration day, when 193,000 trips were recorded. Getting to the march on Washington and its sister events around the country is proving a challenge. Metro subway officials also said many garages and lots at the ends of subway lines were at or near capacity. In New York, Greyhound had to scramble to get extra buses and drivers for the 3:45am departure to Washington after a crush of last-minute ticket purchases. A spokeswoman says they ended up with a total of 18 extra buses, and some couldn't leave until 6:30am because there weren't enough drivers on site. In Chicago, trains from the city's suburbs to a downtown march are packed. Officials added trains to their Saturday morning schedule in anticipation of higher-than-usual ridership, but passengers are still reporting standing-room-only trains and crowded platforms. Some trains are so full they are bypassing scheduled stops. Meanwhile... Trump attends church Police block access to Trafalgar Square as up to 100,000 turn out he Telegraph's reports: This afternoon, police blocked access to Trafalgar Square due to the sheer volume of people in the area. Initially 10,000 people had been anticipated but organisers announced on stage that between 80,000 and 100,000 people had taken part in the event. TV Presenter Sandi Toksvig and Labour MP Yvette Cooper addressed crowds, while London mayor Sadiq Khan was also in attendance. Yvette Cooper, said: "When the most powerful man in the world says it's okay to sexually assault women because you are rich and powerful, we have to stand up and say no way." She added: "I think this is a march for equality and action for the future. We don't want the clock being turned back on women's equality."  America Ferrera: 'Every single one of us' is under attack ctress America Ferrera has told the Washington march "every single one of us" is under attack by President Donald Trump. She said people were gathered in the capital and across the country to say to Trump, "We refuse." The Ugly Betty star said the marchers reject demonisation of Muslims. She also said they also refuse to give up their "right to safe and legal abortions." Ferrera said the US won't ask LGBT Americans to go backward and won't go from a nation of immigrants to "a nation of ignorance." Hillary Clinton tweets her support for protests he former Democratic nominee for president has thanked attendees on Twitter for "standing, speaking and marching for our values." She says it's as "important as ever." Clinton is also reviving her campaign slogan and says in the tweet she believes "we're always Stronger Together." Thanks for standing, speaking & marching for our values @womensmarch . Important as ever. I truly believe we're always Stronger Together. Women's march underway in Washington hile people have been gathering for hours, the rally officially started at 10am local time (3pm GMT) at the intersection of Independence and Third streets. There is expected to be about three hours of performances and speakers now before the march towards the White House begins. The march ends at the Ellipse. According to the Washington Post, citing figures from the National Park Service, the biggest ever demonstration in Washington was the anti-Vietnam War protest in 1969. However the park service does not provide crowd figures anymore. Organisers for the women's protest are now expecting half a million people. 500,000 now expected at march in Washington ssociated Press is reporting that city officials have increased the expected turnout for the women's march in Washington to 500,000, up from 200,000. There were early signs across Washington that crowds could top those that gathered on Friday to watch President Donald Trump's inauguration. Metro subway stations and train cars are full in many locations. Per @womensmarch organizers, they're increasing today's turnout estimates to 500,000 participants. Be patient & kind! #WomensMarch ore than 600 "sister marches" were planned across the country and around the world. Retired teacher Linda Lastella, 69, who came from Metuchen, New Jersey, said she had never marched before but felt the need to speak out when "many nations are experiencing this same kind of pullback and hateful, hateful attitudes." "It just seemed like we needed to make a very firm stand of where we were," she said. any arrived wearing hand-knit pointy-eared "pussyhats" - a message of female empowerment aimed squarely at Trump's demeaning comments about women. 100,000 catch buses into Washington march P reports: Rose Wurm got on her bus at 7 am in Hagerstown, Maryland, ready for the ride to Washington and the Women's March. The 64-year-old retired medical secretary from Bedford, Pennsylvania, carried two signs. One asks President Donald Trump to stop tweeting. Another asks him to fix ex-President Barack Obama's health care law, rather than get rid of it. Wurm is riding one of the roughly 1,800 buses that have registered to park in Washington on Saturday. That translates into nearly 100,000 people coming for the march just by bus. One company has buses coming from more than 200 cities in 26 states. It's using school buses to bring people to the march from Maryland. Women's protest grows around the world ictures are now flooding in from near and far of women's marches around the world . As well as protesting president Donald Trump's attitude towards women, many of the marches are taking on local issues. In New Delhi, for example, women are protesting their right to go out in public spaces without harassment, while in London, Brexit is on the agenda.  Women in pink hats descend on Washington DC housands of women have descended on the capital. Hours before the women's event in Washington was due to begin, people were streaming into the city, many wearing bright pink hats and wielding signs with messages such as "The future is female" and "Less fear more love." ena Wilson, of Charlotte, North Carolina, said she hopes the women can send Trump a message that they're "not going anywhere." Joy Rodriguez, of Miami, arrived with her husband, William, and their two daughters, ages 12 and 10. "I want to make sure their rights are not infringed on in these years coming up," Joy Rodriguez said.  Far-right gather in Germany he Telegraph's Berlin correspondent reports from the start of the "alternative European summit":  The leaders of Europe’s rising far-Right are gathering in Germany on Saturday at the start of a year they hope will overturn the political order of the continent. A day after Donald Trump’s inauguration, Marine Le Pen, Geert Wilders, and Frauke Petry, the leader of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, are sharing a stage for the first time, in what they say will be an “alternative European summit”. “We will make our countries great again,” Mr Wilders tweeted in a clear attempt to borrow some of President Trump’s new lustre. Mrs Petry proclaimed the summit on Twitter as the “start of the European election campaign”. Ms Le Pen is currently leading the polls ahead of France’s presidential election in April, though she is forecast to lose a second round run-off in May. Mr Wilders’ Freedom Party (PVV) is leading the polls ahead of a general election in the Netherlands in March, although the other parties say they will refuse to form a coalition with him and block his route to power. Though her party is only third in the German polls, Mrs Petry is hoping it can win enough seats in German elections in September to force Angela Merkel from power. The summit will be the first time these leaders, who all want to step back from European integration, have ever cooperated so closely. They will be joined by Matteo Salvini, the Mussolini-admiring leader of Italy’s Lega Nord, and Harald Vilimsky of the Austrian Freedom Party (FPÖ),which narrowly lost last month’s presidential election. The meeting is taking place amid extraordinary controversy. It comes just days after a leading member of the AfD provoked outrage when he called for Germany to stop atoning for its Nazi past,and described the national Holocaust Memorial as a “monument of shame”. Sigmar Gabriel, the German vice-chancellor, is expected to join thousands of protesters outside the venue, on the banks of the river Rhine. So is the Rhenish Philharmonic Orchestra, which plans to play Beethoven’s Ode to Joy, the European Union’s anthem, in protest. Although the meeting is being hosted by the AfD, it has been disowned by half the party, who regard Ms Le Pen’s Front National as too far-Right and want nothing to do with it. The event is being held by Europe of Nations and Freedom,a far-Right grouping in the European parliament. Markus Pretzell, the organiser and Mrs Petry’s husband, has banned much of the German press and some international media from attending the summit, accusing them of bias against the party. “I don’t like how you work, I don’t give a damn what you write” Mr Pretzell told the Washington Post. Also not welcome are Spiegel magazine,Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper and all German public broadcasters. What is Trump up to today? weeting of course! It's just past 8am in Washington and after his first night at the White House, Mr Trump is already up and at it: A fantastic day and evening in Washington D.C.Thank you to @FoxNews and so many other news outlets for the GREAT reviews of the speech! ext on the schedule is a prayer service at Washington National Cathedral. For years, the cathedral has hosted such a service for the new president. But this year, some in the largely liberal congregation have objected to hosting it. Bishop Mariann Budde of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington has written in blog post that she shares "a sense of outrage at some of the president-elect's words and actions" - but that she feels an obligation to welcome all people without qualification. Later Trump is expected to visit the CIA. Women's march kicks off in London housands of women - and men - are marching in 14 UK cities and towns today , the first full day of Donald Trump's presidency. Some pictures are coming in now from the march in London...  Merkel vows to find compromise with US erman Chancellor Angela Merkel has vowed seek compromises on issues like trade and military spending with US President Donald Trump, adding she would work on preserving the important relationship between Europe and the United States. "He made his convictions clear in his inauguration speech," Merkel said. She added: "I say two things with regards to this (speech): first, I believe firmly that it is best for all of us if we work together based on rules, common values and joint action in the international economic system, in the international trade system, and make our contributions to the military alliances." "And second, the trans-Atlantic relationship will not be less important in the coming years than it was in past years. And I will work on that. "Even when there are different opinions, compromises and solutions can be best found when we exchange ideas with respect." Thousands of women to march in DC reports: A day after self-described anarchists created chaos, thousands of women are descending upon Washington for what is expected to be a more orderly show of force on the first full day of Donald Trump's presidency. Organisers of Saturday's Women's March on Washington expect more than 200,000 people to attend their gathering. Attendees are "hurting and scared" as the new president takes office and want a greater voice for women in political life, according to the organisers' mission statement. "In the spirit of democracy and honoring the champions of human rights, dignity, and justice who have come before us, we join in diversity to show our presence in numbers too great to ignore," the statement says. Women and other groups were demonstrating across the nation and as far abroad as Myanmar and Australia. n Sydney, thousands of Australians marched in solidarity in the city's central Hyde Park. One organiser said hatred, bigotry and racism are not only America's problems. The Washington gathering, which features a morning rally and afternoon march, comes a day after protesters set fires and hurled bricks in a series of clashes that led to more than 200 arrests. Police used pepper spray and stun grenades to prevent the chaos from spilling into Trump's formal procession and evening balls. bout a mile from the National Mall, police gave chase to a group of about 100 protesters who smashed the windows of downtown businesses including a Starbucks, a Bank of America and a McDonald's as they denounced capitalism and Trump. The confrontation began an hour before Trump took the oath of office and escalated several hours later as the crowd of protesters swelled to more than 1,000, some wearing gas masks and with arms chained together inside PVC pipe. One said the demonstrators were "bringing in the cavalry." hen some crossed police lines, taunting, "Put the pigs in the ground," police charged with batons and pepper spray, as well as stun grenades, which are used to shock and disperse crowds. Booms echoed through the streets about six blocks from where Trump would soon hold his inaugural parade. Some protesters picked up bricks and concrete from the sidewalk and hurled them at police lines. Some rolled large, metal trash cans at police. Later, they set fire to a limousine on the perimeter of the secured zone, sending black smoke billowing into the sky during Trump's procession. s night fell, protesters set a bonfire blocks from the White House and frightened well-dressed Trump supporters as they ventured to the new president's inaugural balls. Police briefly ordered ball goers to remain inside their hotel as they worked to contain advancing protesters. Police said they charged 217 people with rioting, said Newsham, noting that the group caused "significant damage" along a number of blocks. Before Inauguration Day, the DisruptJ20 coalition, named after the date of the inauguration, had promised that people participating in its actions in Washington would attempt to shut down the celebrations, risking arrest when necessary. t was unclear whether the groups will be active on Saturday. The Women's March on Washington features a morning rally with a speaking lineup that includes a series of celebrities, Scarlett Johansson, America Ferrara, Amy Schumer, Frances McDormand and Zendaya, among them. Friday's protests spread across the nation and around the world. In San Francisco, thousands formed a human chain on the Golden Gate Bridge and chanted "Love Trumps hate." In the city's financial district, a few hundred protesters blocked traffic outside an office building partly owned by Trump. In Atlanta, protests converged at City Hall and a few hundred people chanted and waved signs protesting Trump, denouncing racism and police brutality and expressing support for immigrants, Muslims and the Black Lives Matter movement. n Nashville, half a dozen protesters chained themselves to the doors of the Tennessee Capitol. Hundreds also sat in a 10-minute silent protest at a park while Trump took the oath of office. Organisers led a prayer, sang patriotic songs and read the Declaration of Independence aloud. In the Pacific Northwest, demonstrators in Portland, Oregon, burned US flags and students at Portland State University walked out of classes. About 200 protesters gathered on the Capitol steps in Olympia, Washington, carrying signs that included the messages "Resist Trump" and "Not My Problem." Recap: Trump uses first hours in office to start dismantling Obamacare reports: President Donald Trump directed government agencies on Friday to freeze regulations and take steps to weaken Obamacare, using his first hours in the White House to make good on a campaign promise to start dismantling his predecessor's healthcare law. Heading into the Oval Office shortly after the conclusion of his inaugural parade, Trump signed an order on the Affordable Care Act that urged government departments to "waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation" of provisions that imposed fiscal burdens on states, companies or individuals. It also called for efforts to give states greater flexibility in implementing healthcare programs while developing "a free and open market in interstate commerce for the offering of healthcare services and health insurance." ealth experts had speculated that Trump could expand exemptions from the so-called individual mandate, which requires Americans to carry insurance or face a penalty, or the requirement that employers offer coverage. Experts also believe the administration could try to reduce the "essential benefits," such as maternity care and mental health services, that insurance plans must cover. The White House did not provide further details about the executive order. Trump's spokesman Sean Spicer said the White House also directed an immediate regulatory freeze for all government agencies in a memo from Trump's chief of staff, Reince Priebus. He did not offer details. Repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, one of former President Barack Obama's signature laws, was a central pledge for Trump during the presidential election campaign. Republicans in the US Congress have not yet laid out a plan to recast the insurance program. n a hastily arranged ceremony, surrounded by some of his aides, Trump sat behind the presidential Resolute Desk and signed the order. He also signed commissions for his newly confirmed defense secretary, James Mattis, and his homeland security secretary, John Kelly. Trump spoke briefly about his day with reporters. "It was busy, but good. It was a beautiful day," he said. Vice President Mike Pence then swore in Mattis and Kelly in a separate ceremony. There were other signs of change in the Oval Office, which Obama vacated on Friday morning. Golden drapes hung where crimson ones had earlier in the day and new furniture dotted the room. How the media reacted onald Trump's inauguration as the 45th president of the United States graced the front pages of newspapers around the world on Saturday. While some outlets ominously predicted the "chaos" starts now, others declared it was the start of a new world order. "This American carnage stops right here," Mr Trump declared in his address . In a warning to the world, he said: "From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this moment on, it's going to be America first." Read here to see how the world's media reacted . The front page of The New York Times, Jan. 21, 2017 https://t.co/04az6LamUQ  pic.twitter.com/U3J1uSCZJk  Putin 'ready to meet' new US president rom the Reuters news agency: Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to meet US President Donald Trump but preparations for the possible meeting may take months, not weeks, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying by TASS news agency. "This will not be in coming weeks, let's hope for the best - that the meeting will happen in the coming months," Peskov told BBC, according to TASS. President returns Winston Churchill bust to Oval Office before dancing My Way at inaugural ball onald J Trump has capped the day of his inauguration with dancing and celebrating, hours after being sworn in as the 45th President of America with a vow to rebuild the country using "American hands". "American carnage stops right here and right now," he said on the steps of the Capitol after taking the Oath of Office. He said he would strip power away from Washington and give it "back to the people". "We must think big and dream even bigger," he said. "America will start winning again, winning like never before. "We will bring back our jobs, we will bring back our borders, we will bring back our wealth and we will bring back our dreams. "We will build new roads and highways and bridges and airports and tunnels and railways all across our wonderful nation." arack Obama, the former president and his wife Michelle, the former first lady, watched on as they handed power to the Trumps. During Mr Trump's speech, the rain started falling in Washington. He and wife Melania had earlier had tea at the White House with the Obamas. Hillary and Bill Clinton were also there along with other former presidents, George W Bush and Jimmy Carter, and their first ladies. George H W Bush and his wife Barbara remain in hospital in Houston. t was the first time Mrs Clinton had come face-to-face with Mr Trump since her bruising election defeat to the Republican in November. Eager to demonstrate his readiness to take actions, Mr Trump went directly to the Oval Office Friday night, before the inaugural balls, and signed his first executive order as president - on "Obamacare." When I met Trump as President elect I asked him to return the Churchill bust to the Oval Office. First day: pic.twitter.com/zZ4TBppeuZ hief of Staff Reince Priebus said it was an order to federal departments "minimising the economic burden" of President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act. The new president also returned a bust of Sir Winston Churchill to the Oval Office - in a nod to the "special relationship". "This is a movement and now the work begins," Mr Trump told supporters, before dancing with his wife, Melania, to "My Way" at the first of three inaugural balls. "We love you. We're going to be working for you and we're going to produce results."

The Telegraph's Berlin correspondent Justin Huggler reports from the start of the "alternative European summit":

The leaders of Europe’s rising far-Right are gathering in Germany on Saturday at the start of a year they hope will overturn the political order of the continent.

A day after Donald Trump’s inauguration, Marine Le Pen, Geert Wilders, and Frauke Petry, the leader of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, are sharing a stage for the first time, in what they say will be an “alternative European summit”.

“We will make our countries great again,” Mr Wilders tweeted in a clear attempt to borrow some of President Trump’s new lustre.

Mrs Petry proclaimed the summit on Twitter as the “start of the European election campaign”.

Ms Le Pen is currently leading the polls ahead of France’s presidential election in April, though she is forecast to lose a second round run-off in May.

Mr Wilders’ Freedom Party (PVV) is leading the polls ahead of a general election in the Netherlands in March, although the other parties say they will refuse to form a coalition with him and block his route to power.

Though her party is only third in the German polls, Mrs Petry is hoping it can win enough seats in German elections in September to force Angela Merkel from power.

The summit will be the first time these leaders, who all want to step back from European integration, have ever cooperated so closely.

They will be joined by Matteo Salvini, the Mussolini-admiring leader of Italy’s Lega Nord, and Harald Vilimsky of the Austrian Freedom Party (FPÖ),which narrowly lost last month’s presidential election.

The meeting is taking place amid extraordinary controversy. It comes just days after a leading member of the AfD provoked outrage when he called for Germany to stop atoning for its Nazi past,and described the national Holocaust Memorial as a “monument of shame”.

Sigmar Gabriel, the German vice-chancellor, is expected to join thousands of protesters outside the venue, on the banks of the river Rhine.

So is the Rhenish Philharmonic Orchestra, which plans to play Beethoven’s Ode to Joy, the European Union’s anthem, in protest.

Although the meeting is being hosted by the AfD, it has been disowned by half the party, who regard Ms Le Pen’s Front National as too far-Right and want nothing to do with it.

The event is being held by Europe of Nations and Freedom,a far-Right grouping in the European parliament.

Markus Pretzell, the organiser and Mrs Petry’s husband, has banned much of the German press and some international media from attending the summit, accusing them of bias against the party.

“I don’t like how you work, I don’t give a damn what you write” Mr Pretzell told the Washington Post. Also not welcome are Spiegel magazine,Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper and all German public broadcasters.