A rank outsider has seized the White House. But will he defend the Constitution, or trample it?
A rank outsider has seized the White House. But will he defend the Constitution, or trample it?
t is often said that Donald Trump’s presidential style is unprecedented, but his inauguration called to mind that of Andrew Jackson in 1829 . Like Trump, Jackson was an outsider to America’s political elite, emerging from the “wilds” far from East Coast states that had produced every previous president. Like Trump, Jackson’s first election in 1824 was disputed – though he lost his argument with the House of Representatives that he was the rightful president and had to wait another four years to get another shot. In 1828, his victory was so large that no one could deny him the prize. t the inauguration, Jackson’s backwoodsmen were intent on fulfilling every low expectation that eastern cosmopolitans had of them. The “deplorables” rushed the White House, piling into every room and climbing, in the words of one commentator, “ with their muddy boots on[to] the damask-covered chairs ”. When refreshments were served, they smashed plates, cups, and glasses, and stole all the ices “so that nothing was left for the ladies”. The Jacksonian era had arrived. Democracy in America would never quite look the same. Like Trump, Jackson was an unvarnished soul. He duelled men whom he felt had insulted him, and carried around a bullet from one such engagement that left him in permanent pain. His policies could be ruthless, expelling entire Indian nations from the Southeast and, in a stroke, disestablishing the Federal Reserve’s precursor, the Second Bank of the United States. In all these ways, Jackson can be seen as a predecessor to some of Trump’s radical promises. nd yet Jackson was something more. He had a long and distinguished record in the military and politics. No one had been more important in holding the country together during the Indian and imperial wars of 1812-1815, when the smart money was betting that the young republic would collapse. He knew the US Constitution well and admired its principles. And as president he was even prepared to send in federal troops to assert the national government’s primacy in the so-called “nullification crisis” with the state of South Carolina. Then Jackson stood firm despite knowing that his stance might one day imperil the institution, slavery, on which his own state of Tennessee, and other southern states, was founded. Trump is an outsider like Jackson. His temperament seems similar too. What stance will he now take when constitutional principles contradict his personal (and material) interests? He has as yet shown little of the regard that Jackson had for the Constitution. We can only hope that here again he will follow Jackson’s path.

And yet Jackson was something more. He had a long and distinguished record in the military and politics. No one had been more important in holding the country together during the Indian and imperial wars of 1812-1815, when the smart money was betting that the young republic would collapse.

He knew the US Constitution well and admired its principles. And as president he was even prepared to send in federal troops to assert the national government’s primacy in the so-called “nullification crisis” with the state of South Carolina. Then Jackson stood firm despite knowing that his stance might one day imperil the institution, slavery, on which his own state of Tennessee, and other southern states, was founded.

Trump is an outsider like Jackson. His temperament seems similar too. What stance will he now take when constitutional principles contradict his personal (and material) interests? He has as yet shown little of the regard that Jackson had for the Constitution. We can only hope that here again he will follow Jackson’s path.

Gary Gerstle is Mellon Professor of American History at Cambridge, and the author of 'Liberty and Coercion: The Paradox of American Government’ (2015)