How to watch the Women's March on Washington
How to watch the Women's March on Washington
Today, tens of thousands of people will descend on Washington, D.C. for the Women's March on Washington , the viral protest for equality organized in the wake of Donald Trump's ascension to the White House. SEE ALSO: How to get involved with the Women's March on Washington if you're not in D.C. But if you can't make it to Washington, or you want to keep track of it while participating in one of the hundreds of sister marches , you'll have some options. TV Given the size and publicity of the march, you can be sure that major cable news networks like CNN, MSNBC, and Fox News will give the march some coverage throughout the day. C-SPAN will also have coverage live starting at 10 a.m. ET. Meanwhile, if you've got DirecTV or Dish Network, LinkTV , a left-leaning channel, will have live coverage. Online The Women's March website says it'll have a stream launching Saturday morning in conjunction with the start of the event, though it's unclear exactly when that'll be, or how it'll be livestreamed. Democracy Now plans to livestream the event on their site from 10 a.m. ET until 3 p.m. ET with a broadcast from near the event's main stage. The official Women's March group also has a YouTube worth keeping an eye on . Social You can also follow the March accounts on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram for the latest updates, photos, and videos associated with the march. You can bet there'll be plenty of streams coming from the march across all those platforms, and more (for example: it's hard to imagine a Snapchat . Numerous attendees will likely be streaming parts of the march on apps like Periscope and on Facebook Live. will continue to add sources as they become available. BONUS: Obama 'Hope' artist has a new set of powerful posters

Today, tens of thousands of people will descend on Washington, D.C. for the Women's March on Washington, the viral protest for equality organized in the wake of Donald Trump's ascension to the White House.

But if you can't make it to Washington, or you want to keep track of it while participating in one of the hundreds of sister marches, you'll have some options.

UPDATE: You can watch it via YouTube below!

TV

Given the size and publicity of the march, you can be sure that major cable news networks like CNN, MSNBC, and Fox News will give the march some coverage throughout the day. C-SPAN will also have coverage live starting at 10 a.m. ET.

Meanwhile, if you've got DirecTV or Dish Network, LinkTV, a left-leaning channel, will have live coverage.

Online

The Women's March website says it'll have a stream launching Saturday morning in conjunction with the start of the event, though it's unclear exactly when that'll be, or how it'll be livestreamed.

Democracy Now plans to livestream the event on their site from 10 a.m. ET until 3 p.m. ET with a broadcast from near the event's main stage.

The official Women's March group also has a YouTube worth keeping an eye on.

Social

You can also follow the March accounts on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest updates, photos, and videos associated with the march.

You can bet there'll be plenty of streams coming from the march across all those platforms, and more (for example: it's hard to imagine a Snapchat . Numerous attendees will likely be streaming parts of the march on apps like Periscope and on Facebook Live.

Mashable will continue to add sources as they become available.