Monks in Sudan had their flesh RIPPED off before burial
Monks had their flesh RIPPED off before burial


They may have lived peaceful lives, but it appears that monks living in Sudan 1,000 years ago did not have such a dignified ending.

Researchers have excavated four ancient cemeteries in Sudan and revealed that many of the skeletons had signs of 'defleshing'.

Marks on the skeletons' bones suggest that their flesh was removed shortly after death – although the reason for this remains a mystery.

Researchers have excavated four ancient cemeteries in Sudan and have revealed that many of the skeletons have signs of 'defleshing'

DEFLESHING RITUAL Such brutal burial rites seem extreme by today's comparison, but may have been typical thousands of years ago. Researchers have argued about similar instances of dismemberment and whether the dead were eaten or prepared in a ritualistic manner. In some megalithic tombs, archaeologists have found evidence of skulls and bones being arranged in patterns around the burial site. More modern examples of unorthodox burial rites include mummification – in which the organs were removed, with the brain removed via the nose. More extreme still could be sky burials in Tibet, where corpses of loved ones are offered up to vultures and the elements on mountain tops.

Researchers from McMaster University in Hamilton have excavated 123 individuals from four cemeteries near the remains of a medieval Christian monastery in Sudan, near the River Nile.

The people buried in the cemeteries lived around 1,000 years ago, during a time when Christian kingdoms flourished in the area.

One of the cemeteries was found to consist solely of adult males, and was probably used by the monks from the monastery.

Two cemeteries contained a wider mix of individuals, while the fourth contained only 15 burials – many with unusual features.

One burial contained a mix of bones with cut marks from two individuals, made shortly after their death.

'All the indicators [are] that this happened when the bones were still quite fresh,' said Robert Stark who led the study, during a presentation of his findings.

Researchers from McMaster University in Hamilton have excavated 123 individuals from four cemeteries near the remains of a medieval Christian monastery in Sudan, near the River Nile

One burial contained a mix of bones with cut marks from two individuals, made shortly after their death

Mr Stark added that it was possible that the cut marks were made during a form of defleshing ceremony.

Various other people buried in the cemetery were found in strange positions, such as one person whose legs were at a 45-degree angle, with their arms across his or her head.

Other noteable findings were stone structures that were found in all four cemeteries, engraved with Greek writings.

Various other people buried in the cemetery were found in strange positions, such as one person whose legs were at a 45-degree angle, with their arms across his or her head

One of the cemeteries was found to consist solely of adult males, and was probably used by the monks from the monastery

The four cemeteries were located near the Al-Ghazali monastery in Sudan

Artur Obluski, director of the excavations at al-Ghazali, told Live Science: 'The writing on tombstones can be divided into two parts.

The first part consisted of prayers, which included 'a prayer for the soul of the deceased, a prayer to the Providence of God, the God himself often described as merciful.'

These prayers ask 'that the soul will be taken care of and can rest on the bosom of Abraham, Isaac and Jacobor in the world of the Living.'

The second part of the tombstone engravings 'contains some individual information of the deceased: his name, age at the time of death, sometimes titles he bore during his life time - so-called cursus honorum - and professions he performed,' he added.

The people buried in the cemeteries lived around 1,000 years ago, during a time when Christian kingdoms flourished in the area