Women’s March Highlights: Viewer Questions
Women’s March Highlights: Viewer Questions
Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Welcome Everyone, this live video chat is here for you to interact with our reporters in the field at these protests. I’m here to guide you through what we’re seeing. Ask questions here and I’ll answer some and steer some to the people you see in the live video! This sort of live stream chat is an experiment, so please share what you like or don’t like about it with us on our Live Interactive Journalism team email address LIJTeam@NYTimes.com  Thanks!   From a Reader Where can I find a list of the speakers? DF Arlington, VA   From a Reader Do any of these women have a clue? BHN Richmond, VA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Before the march begins in Washington (coming up in about an hour), there’s a rally going on with speakers and performers like Gloria Steinem, Janelle Monáe, Cecile Richards, Angela Davis, Scarlett Johansson, Michael Moore, the Mothers of the Movement (Sybrina Fulton, Lucy McBath, Maria Hamilton, Gwen Carr) and the Indigo Girls. You can find our stream of that rally here: /washington-march-live-video.html?action=click&gtype=vhs&version=vhs-heading&module=vhs&region=title-area?smid=fb-nytimes&smtyp=cur&ad-keywords=FBLVIDEO   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi DF, you can find more info on the speakers here: https://www.womensmarch.com/     Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi BHN, there are women at the marches for all different reasons. And there are some men there too! So their viewpoints and knowledge will vary.. Keep watching to see what they have to say. Got any questions you want us to ask them?   From a Reader Great messages!!! But too much distractions behind the speakers!!! Can the people behind the speakers go behind the stage to have their personal conversation??? We don’t want to miss every part of speakers motivational speech. They prepared to deliver, LET US PAY ATTENTION!!! Together Stronger!!!! Mama Bear Georgia   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Mama Bear, 
 thanks for your comment! You are right there is a lot going on at the scene.. What are your thoughts on the march?   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Ask your questions here and we’ll address some on camera!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The Times has a great compilation of our Women’s March coverage, based on feeds and live videos from scores of our journalists. Check that out here: Watch Live: Women’s March on Washington (and Elsewhere) Crowds have gathered on Saturday at a protest in Washington and others around the world. The New York Times    From a Reader Can you tell me why women who are Pro-Life were told they were not invited? I feel I know the answer but would like your response. David Theodore, AL   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi David from Theodore, Alabama —
 Reproductive rights are probably most controversial issue around this march. You are right that it has been divisive. See this story the NYT did about it: Views on Abortion Strain Calls for Unity at Women’s March on Washington March officials are being criticized for including abortion rights language in the official platform, alienating women who consider themselves feminists but oppose the procedure. The New York Times    From a Reader But for another obligation I would have gone to Washington. Thank you for letting me experience this great event. Sharlan Douglas Royal Oak, MI   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Ask your questions here, and I’ll address some!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The reporter who is out in DC with you now is Deborah Acosta. She works on our live interactive journalism doing great live videos with your participation in them. Ask questions and she will address some or ask them to people passing by.   From a Reader Just got a text from my brother who is in Washington marching; do you have an estimate how many people are there? Ann Cooney Abramczyk Cape Coral, FL   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Ann,
  about 200,000 were expected. There isn’t a current exact figure on how many are there. And more could be coming as march starts (in about an hour). Right now it’s a rally. I’ll tell you one thing – the actual # will likely be hotly debated. This march – though called a Women’s March - is highly political. So the # of people who attend the march in DC and the ones around world will be contested.. What are you hearing from your sons about the march?   From a Reader Does everybody wants to have Obama back, or what is it all about? Or you prefer “warlord” Hillary? Peter Silie Germany   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Peter, You are right that this march is very much about who was elected president. The fact is that not everyone attending the marches agrees on who they wanted to be president. Some people wanted Hillary Clinton. Some people wanted Bernie Sanders. Of course it’s not possible that Obama would be president any longer, due to term limits.   From a Reader Why is the top headline on the front page of nytimes.com about trump and not the millions of protesters across the nation. Taylor San Francisco, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Taylor,
  It’s always a tricky balance on what you emphasize. But top of NYTimes.com site now is really a mix of both Trump and the protestors. There is a headline about Trump, but the “photo spot” (ie: the box in center of top of web site) is showing a live video from today’s marches. We have been covering a variety of viewpoints very thoroughly. Today, 
the Times has journalists covering the marches in Washington; New York; Boston; Atlanta; Denver; Los Angeles; Phoenix; St. Paul, Minn.; and Key West, Fla. Thanks for watching and keep sharing your thoughts! Got questions for the people we are interviewing here live?   From a Reader Are you guys going to be at the march for life next Friday?  Much more important to protect the life of those that can’t protect themselves. Jason Las Vegas   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Jason,
 yes we will also be live-streaming the pro-life march. We do a lot of our livestreaming on Facebook. You can find it all here: www.facebook.com/nytimes  You’ll see there that we stream on really all different viewpoints. I run these livestreams. Email my team anytime with your suggestions on what you want to see LIJTeam@nytimes.com   From a Reader I’m watching the march in D. C. live. They are working to keep the focus positive–creating positive change, protecting our rights. Are the others staying as positive? We need positive strength. I am so proud of these people exercising our basic rights! Paula Bloomington, IN   From a Reader Who are these Nasty Women?Why do they use such a derogatory term. UUUGG! Jenny 24506   From a Reader Who is funding the security contingent that is present at the march? Ben Atlanta, Ga   From a Reader Hello. I am watching live from Lebanon, it is a very beautiful scene. Women groups in Beirut have marched recently to call for gender equality and I must say that the road is still a tough one. My question is (I am afraid I might be misunderstood), if you say that elect a woman for office and I will vote for Hillary because she is a woman, isn’t that sexist too? Voting for somebody based on gender. When I was visiting mu uncle in Boston in the summer, I have met a lot of women who said that. Am I wrong for saying that? Samer Kammoun Lebanon   From a Reader Watching from Vancouver, Canada, where thousands of people are marching in solidarity with the women and other citizens of the USA. Joe New Westminster, BC   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi everyone thanks for watching. We have reporters all over the country at these marches. We are now live from NYC with NYT journalist Paul Moon.  Keep asking your questions here! What do you want to see in NYC? Later on we will go to Los Angeles, Denver, and more..   From a Reader Not a question but; THANK YOU! This q&a is a spectacular public service that you are contributing. The questions are tough, the answers are complex and here you are with your sleeves rolled up. I love what you are doing. I applaud what you are doing. I am grateful for what you are doing. Nancy Moynihan Atlanta, GA   From a Reader Just got home from the march in Paris, it was incredible.  So powerful, empowering, positive, and so many funny signs! kelly goldsborough Paris, France   From a Reader If any other Republican had been elected, would these marches still be taking place? Leslie Dallas, TX   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Leslie,
  hard to know what would have happened if another Republican were elected. But one thing to know is there were protests at the inauguration of George W. Bush, largely because those protestors were upset about the outcome of the Supreme Court case that decided the dispute between Bush and his opponent Al Gore..   From a Reader Although I’m not marching I totally support it. Keep on resisting! Jo Peer-Haas Chicago, IL   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  There have been other women’s marches around inaugurations. Let’s do some history now: The Women’s Suffrage Parade of 1913, drew 5,000 to 8,000 suffragists. They marched on Pennsylvania Avenue a day ahead of President Woodrow Wilson’s inauguration. So that is considered a march that worked. It’s gone down in history as something that helped women win the right to vote.   From a Reader How does the crowd size in DC today compare to the inauguration crowd yesterday? Donna Marie Alaska     Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Donna Marie,
 the actual size of these crowds is going to be disputed on both days. #s as you know are highly political. Here is something we put up on NYT site showing the crowds yesterday vs. 2008: Trump’s Inauguration vs. Obama’s: Comparing the Crowds Early estimates put the crowd gathered for President Donald J. Trump’s inauguration at far less than President Obama’s in 2009. The New York Times    Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Everyone, we are now back in Washington DC, showing you the march there. Ask your questions here and Deborah Acosta, our reporter in this livestream, will ask the people she’s talking with about the things you want to know! You are in the interview too..   From a Reader So proud of this country right now!  March on ladies and gentlemen.  This is a good start to protest what trump is doing to our country.  Not my president for sure. Judith Mohrmann Columbus, NE   From a Reader Ask how they feel when VP Pence stated to media that husbands and fathers should NOT allow their wives & daughters to march. He didn’t allow his 23 year old daughter to march. Bernie Kimmerle Northridge, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The march route is around the Mall in Washington – where the inauguration was just yesterday. Here’s a map of the route: Where Women’s Marches Are Happening Around the World The Women’s March on Washington is expected to be the largest inauguration-related demonstration in United States history. The New York Times    From a Reader Numbers are highly political? What side of the highly political paradigm will the NYT be reporting? And, more importantly, will you be acknowledging it in the “reporting”? J. Kane Austin, TX   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi J. Kane,
 you are right: the #s are political. In fact, I just chatted with our National desk, which has reporters out all over the country, and I asked if we have a # of turn out yet. They said we don’t. We have to see how day unrolls, and we are going to be careful on the numbers. They are likely to be disputed by the different sides. Thanks for watching..   From a Reader the stream froze? Nancy Moynihan Atlanta, GA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Nancy, cell phone connection is terrible at these marches! We are working with a lot of different reporters and bringing them into you here one at a time. We switched over to Washington feed, when are NYC reporter hit cell phone problems. So that’s maybe what you saw. Thanks for watching and tell us what else you want to see.   From a Reader Why do inauguration pic used in todays article look in stark contrast to the pic used in yesterday’s article with side by side snapshot from 2009 and 2017? Wouldn’t NYT lose credibility in such deceitful depictions of same event published a day apart? Bryan Elmhurst, NY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Bryan,
 Hi thanks for your comment. The crowds in the photos depend heavily on what time the photos were taken. The photos that the Times put up comparing 2008 crowds to yesterday’s were all taken 45 minutes before.. But estimating the crowds depend a lot of factors – what time, what area you include, etc. Read more here: Trump’s Inauguration vs. Obama’s: Comparing the Crowds Early estimates put the crowd gathered for President Donald J. Trump’s inauguration at far less than President Obama’s in 2009. The New York Times    Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  This is Scarlett Johansson speaking now from the rally in Washington. After this rally, the DC march will begin.   From a Reader is it true or false that pro-life groups were either no invited or dis invited to participate by the organizers skibum Chapel Hill, NC   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Skibum,
 Thanks for your question. This basically has to do with internecine warfare over whether one can be a feminist and anti-abortion at the same time.
The organizers were originally welcoming pro-life women; Bob Bland, one of the four-chairs, told The Atlantic that all were welcome, and there was at least one pro-life group, New Wave Feminists, from Texas, on the list of sponsors. But when that came out, it ignited some internecine controversy, and the New Wave Feminists were pulled. One of the organizers, Sarsour, was subsequently quoted in the Times saying that the march is for women who support choice. Planned Parenthood is one of the prime sponsors. Here is a story the NYT published that has more on this: Views on Abortion Strain Calls for Unity at Women’s March on Washington March officials are being criticized for including abortion rights language in the official platform, alienating women who consider themselves feminists but oppose the procedure. The New York Times    From a Reader I genuinely want to hear from a variety of the marchers regarding their feelings about women that voted for Trump. J. Kane Austin, TX   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thanks J. Kane – we will be taking you to talk with some marchers in Boston or LA soon. So stay tuned. Testing connections there now   From a Reader I find it hilarious as well as disgusting that FAUX news is ignoring the entire March… Marilyn Columbus, OH   From a Reader How much more intersectionality can the gathering take before it turns into a circular firing squad? Ben Atlanta, Ga   From a Reader My fiancē is there! Dave Eddy Lancaster, NY   From a Reader Any estimate of the size of the March in Washington DC? Joel Alderfer Harleysville, PA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  More than 200 organizations have signed on as partners for the march. These groups include: Planned Parenthood, NOW, the NAACP,  Human Rights Watch and more.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Watch for celebrities. Cher, Katy Perry, Amy Schumer are saying they will be there. If you are out marching and spot a celeb, take a short video and email it to us! We may be able to put it up. We are at LIJTeam@nytimes.com   From a Reader People keep asking what the march is about. Could you please explain? Rachel Ecuador   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Rachel,
 Clearly people are marching for all different reasons. But the organizers have put out a guiding vision. It involves a lot of different issues including reproductive rights, LGBT rights, wage equality and the environment. Here it is: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/584086c7be6594762f5ec56e/t/5877e24a29687f9613e546ff/1484251725855/WMW+Guiding+Vision+%26+Definition+of+Principles.pdf   From a Reader Has the incidence of sexual assault of women increased since the election much like anti gay and racial attacked? Scott West Hollywood, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Scott,
 of course it’s really hard to quantify the number of hate crimes. Many are not reported. But here is a story the NYT had on this in NYC in December: Finding Hate Crimes on the Rise, Leaders Condemn Vicious Acts Hate crimes in New York City have risen in the weeks since Donald J. Trump won the presidential election. The incidents range from vicious graffiti to physical violence. The New York Times    From a Reader How do these women feel about the women who voted for Trump? J. Kane Austin, TX   From a Reader she is a very powerful speaker ! sara Toronto, ON   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  J. Kane,
 good question. Our reporter in NYC, Paul Moon, will ask that question to the women there shortly..   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are back in NYC now with the marchers there. We’re asking them your questions , so ask away here and Paul Moon will ask some of them to the marchers.   From a Reader Linda Sarsour! KF Vancouver, WA   From a Reader who is the singer ? sara Toronto, ON   From a Reader who was at the rapper, and who is this speaker ? thanks ! sara Toronto, ON   From a Reader Someone told me that pro lifers were excluded from marching.  Is this true? Sherry Fredericksburg, VA   From a Reader This should be as much about the Republican agenda as Trump. Pence and Ryan are getting what they have been dreaming of for years.  Is focusing on Trump too narrow a focus? Peggi Preston Ojai, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hundreds of marches are occurring around the US and even around the world, in tandem with the one in Washington. Look at this map the Times has up here of the locations. It’s striking: Where Women’s Marches Are Happening Around the World The Women’s March on Washington is expected to be the largest inauguration-related demonstration in United States history. The New York Times      Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Apparently Hillary Clinton is not attending a march. But here is what she tweeted this morning: Thanks for standing, speaking & marching for our values @womensmarch. Important as ever. I truly believe we’re always Stronger Together.   From a Reader Why didn’t the marchers protest months ago during the campaign months? (It would have been more effective.) Rachel Cartersville, GA   From a Reader Where is Sheryl Sandburg and Priscilla Chan Zuckerberg and other big Tech giants Chefgrace Cupertino, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The Times has a great compilation of our Women’s March coverage, based on feeds and live videos from scores of our journalists. Check that out here: Watch Live: Women’s March on Washington (and Elsewhere) Crowds have gathered on Saturday at a protest in Washington and others around the world. The New York Times    Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  That’s a so-called “pussyhat” that you see those women walking past wearing. It’s pink with cat ears. You can learn more on those hats here: https://www.pussyhatproject.com/   From a Reader I find the “non-partisan” label to be misleading–at best. It’s backed by Soros and your own answer above only listed democrat candidates as those marchers would have preferred to Trump. Why the subterfuge? J. Kane Austin, TX   From a Reader Supporting you From San Francisco Bay Area. Marching in SF later! Mary Chicoine Newark, CA   From a Reader Would like a estimate of attendance nationally. Impressive. Glinna White Corvallis, OR   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The parade that was held in 1913 to push for women’s right to vote will be shown on the back of a redesigned $10 bill, which is coming out in 2020.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The Times has journalists covering the marches in Washington; New York; Boston; Atlanta; Denver; Los Angeles; Phoenix; St. Paul, Minn.; and Key West, Fla. Tell us what you’d like to hear from these marchers and our reporters will ask some of your questions on camera.   From a Reader I would like to know why these marches were not organized before Nov 8, there would have a different person in the White House, why are we always too late? Nadine Macungie, PA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Glinna,
 I predict there won’t ever be agreement on how many people came to these marches – but we’ll start seeing estimates maybe end of day. There are hundreds of marches so it will be tricky to come up with numbers.  Look at this map the Times has up here of the locations. It’s striking: Where Women’s Marches Are Happening Around the World The Women’s March on Washington is expected to be the largest inauguration-related demonstration in United States history. The New York Times    From a Reader Where were all these people on Election Day? Joyce Swiftwater PA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Joyce,
 your question (where were these people before election day?) is among the most frequent ones we are seeing here and on Facebook. I don’t have an answer for you – but these marches are bringing together a lot of different advocacy groups (more than 200 groups). It will be interesting to see if these groups keep working together throughout this year.   From a Reader People need direction, what can people do locally to help make a difference! Carol Clementon, NJ   From a Reader Text to 406-49 with the word WOMEN to join the Women’s March Movement Joyce Swiftwater PA   From a Reader Why not top billing for the women’s march beating inauguration attendance? Christen Emery Los Angeles, CA   From a Reader it sure seems to me that these are mostly Democrats, pissed of that Trump won, cause they sure didn’t march when Obama was in office. of course they have the right to protest, just seems to me they wouldn’t ask their president (obama) to do anything, but they want Trump to do everything they ask. Why didn’t they march when Obama was in office? you would have thought their own president would be more likely to do what they wanted. All this is a little odd to me, as you can’t get this many people in one place without planning. Buford Bean Station, TN   From a Reader Are there any politicians attending the rally? Carol Clementon, NJ   From a Reader The camera only shows the buildings and some signs, no people Carol Clementon, NJ   From a Reader This is an amazing sight, women, and men standing up for women’s rights.  It looks like NYC grossly underestimated Women’s March supporters. catherine Medford, OR   From a Reader Please give updates on how TV (all varieties) are covering this by channel. Let’s be fact-based…of course.
Please review/post how TV is covering the marches around the US/world. Networks/cable/etc. Fact-based is always a good idea. Blaise US   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Carol, 
 See this earlier livestream we did. Anna North from NYT opinion page did this one with Teresa Fedor, a politician from Ohio: https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion/videos/1564591030222514/   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are back at Women’s March rally in DC. That is Alicia Keys talking now.   From a Reader To answer those questions from people wanting to know why these people didn’t march before the election, the fact is, we thought Hillary would be the next president.  No one and I mean no one, including the trump voters, thought he could get elected.   His rhetoric was so divisive and his agenda so transparent that literally no one thought he could win. He did not win the popular vote and lost it by a huge margin.  The electoral college won him this election and it needs to be fixed badly.  With the uprising support of people here, it will be. Judith Mohrmann Columbus, NE   From a Reader Our constitutional rights! Carol Clementon, NJ   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The rally is continuing in DC and some people are looking around saying there is little space to march. So we shall see what happens and when people get going.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We’re heading back to NYC now where NYT reporter Emma Fitzsimmons is talking to marchers. What do you want her to ask? Tell us here and she will ask some..   From a Reader What is the Women’s March about? Jasmine Kentucky (unfortunately)   From a Reader I read pro-life groups aren’t welcome at the Women’s March. It seems that what divides us is more important that what we have in common. I’d like to hear news/commentary on this. Lynn WV   From a Reader Has anyone marching encountered anti-prosters in the crowds? Stephanie United Kingdom   From a Reader Buford-you are right that we should have been protesting THE REPUBLICAN OBSTRUCTIONISTS this vehemently during President Obama’s tenure. Jenny Mercuri Panama City, FL   From a Reader Is it time for a Women’s Party? Selia Long Branch, NJ   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The woman speaking now just addressed something many of you asked, the question of whether this march is excluding pro-life women. She said : “This march is for everybody: you have men here, you have women, you have children..  you have different ethnicities, you have different religions .. it’s about humans and living all together and trying to understand each other…Being inclusive is part of like the conversation.”   From a Reader I feel our apathy got us here. I didn’t vote in about 10 Years but came out for Hillary. I think that is Dems, really thought that no one would vote for Trump especially women. We can’t let this happen again. We must stay engaged and involved. Lisa Tustin, CA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Donald Trump will have work to do to build bridges to these women. He didn’t reach out to women specifically in his inauguration remarks, though he did say generally that there is “no room for prejudice.” Here’s his full speech with NYT annotations, if you want to take a look: Donald Trump’s Inaugural Speech, Annotated New York Times reporters analyze the 45th president’s comments. The New York Times     Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Everyone, Emma Fitzsimmons is the NYT reporter running this interview in NYC now. She is asking the marchers questions from here. Put here what you’d like to see them answer and she will answer some.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are back at the rally in Washington now, hearing instructions on where the marchers are supposed to march. So stay tuned, we will go back to the marchers in Washington to see them on the move.   From a Reader Can you tell us the specific agenda/purpose for this march? I get that pro-choice is at the top of their agenda! Sandy Dickson Atlanta, GA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Sandy,
people are marching for all different reasons. But the organizers have put out a guiding vision. It involves a lot of different issues including reproductive rights, LGBT rights, wage equality and the environment. Here it is: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/584086c7be6594762f5ec56e/t/5877e24a29687f9613e546ff/1484251725855/WMW+Guiding+Vision+%26+Definition+of+Principles.pdf   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The musicians playing now are the Indigo Girls.   From a Reader Why aren’t you covering Chicago? The turnout is bigger than anywhere outside of DC. Kathleen Fortney Wheaton, IL   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Kathleen,
 we are covering Chicago and many other places. Are you in Chicago? If so, tell us more on what it’s like there. We are also covering Chicago and there will be info on the Chicago protest added here in a bit: Watch Live: Women’s March on Washington (and Elsewhere) Crowds have gathered on Saturday at a protest in Washington and others around the world. The New York Times   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are now live with NYT journalist Deborah Acosta in Washington. She is talking with marchers and asking them your questions. What do you want her to ask? Tell us here and she’ll ask some.   From a Reader Have these marchers have ever participated in a political protest before? RG Mesa, AZ   From a Reader President Trump Signed into law yesterday to take out the fines on the insurance that was added to the forced insurance
 insurance Nancy Kelly Long Beach, WA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  This march got a lot of momentum in part because it was the first big thing to be announced after the election that people who were not in favor of Mr. Trump saw as taking up their causes. Here is the call to action: https://www.facebook.com/events/2169332969958991/   From a Reader Attended a local Women’s March in Glens Falls, NY today with my 9 year old daughter. Best experience ever! No violence, much love, much unity, strength against hate. <3 Pamela Queensbury, NY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  RG,
  We just asked your question in the video (hope you saw!) and the answer was:  “It is our first time every protesting anything and we went straight to the top.”   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  The woman speaking now is studying to be an educator in Kentucky. She says “as woman and as somebody who is looking to change the future of our nation I think was the place to make my voice heard.”   From a Reader Can you tell us how the Pro-Life marchers are being treated? Ian Robinson Kansas City, MO   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are live now with NYT reporter Jess Bidgood from Boston. Ask your questions here and she will ask some of the marchers for you.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Ian, 
good question – sent this question along to Jess Bidgood, the reporter in Boston..Stay tuned.   From a Reader What is the overall point of your march? What are you trying to accomplish? Toby Louisville, KY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Toby,
 We will keep asking people why they are marching.. so stay tuned. But to start – people are marching for all different reasons. The organizers have put out a guiding vision. It involves a lot of different issues including reproductive rights, LGBT rights, wage equality and the environment. Here it is: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/584086c7be6594762f5ec56e/t/5877e24a29687f9613e546ff/1484251725855/WMW+Guiding+Vision+%26+Definition+of+Principles.pdf   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  There have been numerous politicians speaking out today. For instance Elizabeth Warren spoke out earlier at a rally.   From a Reader What is President Trump’s comment on this? Keith Rohr Ellicott City, MD   From a Reader It is, certainly GOOD women taking the lead but, in fact, it is about PEOPLE, ALL PEOPLE. Silvia Davila MM Colombia   From a Reader Is anyone pulling together a global crowd estimate? https://www.womensmarch.com/sisters-1/ Neil Parekh Alexandria, VA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Everyone, if you are watching this, you might find this story interesting for a historical look at marches in the United States: How Marches in Washington Have Shaped America The Times looks back at several marches in Washington over the past century and how they altered Americans’ views on issues like civil rights and war. The New York Times   From a Reader Did they really disinvite the pro-lifers? Debbie Ralston Silver Spring, MD   From a Reader As a male, how much is the women’s March about women’s rights vs nonzgender related issues? Did it originate as a women’s rightshoes movement and evolve to something greater? Jordan San francisco   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Jordan,
 Deborah is addressing your company live now!   From a Reader Is this march in opposition of President Trump or in effort to raise further awareness for Women’s Rights? Toby Louisville, KY   From a Reader Do you think Trump has seen how large a crowd compared to his? JJ Jackson Biloxi MS   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Toby,
 Deborah just answered your question!   From a Reader Glad to know that I got millions of sisters and they are fighting against bigotry and tyranny from Washington, Chicago, Berlin, London and remember those Kurdish (YPJ) sisters who is fighting with evil daesh -isis- Cengiz Caglar United Kingdom   From a Reader Why does the reporter only picks women, not men to ask questions. Equality only manifests when all joins. I wish to voice my reason to virtually join the march, because I say: respect not rejection; equality not bigotry, tolerance not Trump, planetary protection not polluters’ pal Pruitt, truth not Tillerson Chad Amherst, MA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Chad,
 we have interviewed men throughout these livestreams but we will ask Deborah Acosta, the reporter who is handling the live now, to seek out a male shortly. Stay tuned!   From a Reader If President Trump proposes legislation in support of Women’s Rights, will this change the protester’s views/support? Toby Louisville, KY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Toby, 
we’ll ask them!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  One thing that has come out in a number of these interviews.. Donald Trump will have work to do to build bridges to these women. He didn’t reach out to women specifically in his inauguration remarks, though he did say generally that there is “no room for prejudice.” Here’s his full speech with NYT annotations, if you want to take a look: Donald Trump’s Inaugural Speech, Annotated New York Times reporters analyze the 45th president’s comments. The New York Times     Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Chad, this interview is for you. The guy’s answer is: it’s a women’s march. Still, nonetheless, we will keep seeking out men to talk with.   From a Reader Thank you for doing this live interactive event. It’s very well done. Nancy Tuxedo Park, NY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thanks Nancy! Share it with your friends!   From a Reader Thanks! The dude sounds very offended. What I was hoping to hear from the men, not because they are smarter. They are not. But in face of inequality, the dominant group has to acknowledge inequity. That’s all. May equality prevail! Chad Amherst, MA   From a Reader Why did they disinvite New Wave Feminists? Joycelyn Datu Monomoy Island, MA   From a Reader I didn’t ask the question about asking men vs women but that’s ok.  Thanks for asking my question(s) too. Toby Louisville, KY   From a Reader Was the missing girl reunited with her mom? Pascale Ottawa, ON   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Pascale,
 I’m not sure – will update here if we learn more. Thanks for watching!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi everyone, for those of you just joining. This is a livestream meant to bring you directly to the marches. Ask the questions here that you’d like our reporters to ask the audience. We’ve been live earlier from Boston and NYC and are right now live from DC. Wondering why the Women’s March became such a big deal? In part, this march got a lot of momentum in part because it was the first big thing to be announced after the election that people who were not in favor of Mr. Trump saw as taking up their causes. Here is the call to action: https://www.facebook.com/events/2169332969958991/   From a Reader How many people are there marching?Bet you Trump is Pissed off right now&how will he blame?Hillary,Democrats,yes but never himself Joanie Somerville, MA   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Joanie,
 we don’t have numbers from all the marches yet and the NYT is being cautious on the numbers. This march is so political that whatever numbers come out will likely be contested, just as people are now debating how many people attended the inauguration yesterday and how it compares to other inaugurations.   From a Reader What are the main initiatives going forward? How can people from all over get involved and keep this movement growing? Trish Hundhausen Bandon, OR   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Trish,
People are marching for a variety of reasons, but the organizers have put out a guiding vision. It involves a lot of different issues including reproductive rights, LGBT rights, wage equality and the environment. Here it is: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/584086c7be6594762f5ec56e/t/5877e24a29687f9613e546ff/1484251725855/WMW+Guiding+Vision+%26+Definition+of+Principles.pdf   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  That’s a so-called “pussyhat” that you see those women walking past wearing. It’s pink with cat ears. You can learn more on those hats here: https://www.pussyhatproject.com/   From a Reader Is it true the NYT sent an email to its employees telling them not to go to the event? Mary Louise Madigan lakewood, OH   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Mary Louise,
  At the NYT, we aren’t allowed to participate in any political events of any sorts. So we do have lots of reporters out at these marches, but they are covering them – not participating in them. Thanks for asking and for watching.   From a Reader Can you ask people with signs, what there signs mean? Karen Williams Kirkland, WA   From a Reader Please give us some props here in The Land #womensmarch Cleveland was amazing. Ted Auch Cleveland, OH   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Ted, 
tell us what you saw at the Cleveland march. Would love to hear more about it   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  We are now moving to a livestream with NYT reporter Fernanda Santos in Phoenix. She is live-chatting with a group who traveled to the Women’s March there from Sedona. What do you want Fernanda to ask? Let me know and I’ll pass it along.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  There have been other women’s marches around inaugurations. Let’s do some history now: The Women’s Suffrage Parade of 1913, drew 5,000 to 8,000 suffragists. They marched on Pennsylvania Avenue a day ahead of President Woodrow Wilson’s inauguration. So that is considered a march that worked. It’s gone down in history as something that helped women win the right to vote.   From a Reader Thank you for the chance to share this from those who could not participate in person. Susan boyer Niles, MI   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Susan, 
glad to have you here! What questions should this reporter, Fernanda Santos, ask the marchers on this bus in Phoenix?   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Just a bit of history. the women’s parade that was held in 1913 to push for women’s right to vote will be shown on the back of the redesigned $10 bill. That will be coming out in 2020.   From a Reader So if he’s not your President, does that mean any legislation that he signs into law don’t apply to you? Toby Louisville, KY   From a Reader If they Happy to put Trump in his place Joanie Somerville, MA   From a Reader How many people in NY Susan O'Connor Brooklyn, NY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Susan,
  the numbers are disputed at this point.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Next up, NYT reporter Jenny Medina will be talking with you all about how the Women’s March went in Los Angeles. Ask your questions for her here.   From a Reader What are some of the things do they intend to do to keep this movement going after today? Susan boyer Niles, MI   From a Reader What is the purpose of the march & what do they expect ti gain? Myrna Puerto Rico   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Susan,
 good question. We’ll ask it shortly   From a Reader I’m in St Paul and didn’t march but drove folks to and from. Radio (MPR) estimates I’ve heard indicate 40K TO 45K. Dan Anderson St Paul, MN   From a Reader I think that was a serious sign of frustration. They should learn when to stop & give the president the needed support or remain silent. Ifeanyi Matthew Twitter   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thank you everyone for joining us! We have been live here with you all afternoon and enjoyed engaging with you. Email us your feedback on this experience at LIJTeam@NYTimes.com And you can continue following the NYT’s coverage on this here: ‘We’re Not Going Away’: Huge Crowds for Women’s Marches Against Trump Hundreds of thousands of women gathered in Washington and other cities across the country in a kind of counterinauguration after President Trump took office on Friday. The New York Times    From a Reader My question to all: Why can’t Pres. Trump take less than a minute out of his day to recognizes all the marches in the US and throughout the world and say something like, “I see all of you out there marching today.” I recognize your efforts. I promise to listen and to address the needs of ALL the people whether you voted for me or not.“ Just listened to some of his CIA speech and there was no reference to the march’s. All ssl-congratulatory stuff on cabinet picks and calling the media liars re: how many turned out at his inauguration…essentially he said, the crowd picture was fake…I saw many more…WRONG…shows his perception is way off! Susan Berman Davis, CA   From a Reader Please let’s be inclusive of all Americans… in clouding the white christians in the small towns in our country who glolbaluzation and corporate Interest have forgotten. Those who have been left unemployed with few options to improve their lives. We must not forget their human right to have a job or hope for their children to have jobs too. Bruce Linton San Pablo, CA   From a Reader Does “resist” include the violence from the riots of last night after the inauguration? Toby Louisville, KY   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thanks again for joining Everyone. This concludes our livestreaming of the Women’s Marches. You can follow more of our ongoing livestreams by friending us at www.facebook.com/nytimes  We welcome your feedback on this type of content. Email us at LIJTeam@NYTimes.com

My question to all:

Why can’t Pres. Trump take less than a minute out of his day to recognizes all the marches in the US and throughout the world and say something like, “I see all of you out there marching today.” I recognize your efforts. I promise to listen and to address the needs of ALL the people whether you voted for me or not.“

Just listened to some of his CIA speech and there was no reference to the march’s. All ssl-congratulatory stuff on cabinet picks and calling the media liars re: how many turned out at his inauguration…essentially he said, the crowd picture was fake…I saw many more…WRONG…shows his perception is way off!