What's My Tax Bracket?
What's My Tax Bracket?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  IRS Watch       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The most frequent question tax advisors hear from taxpayers is " The truth is, for most of my clients I am not able to answer that question unless I respond, " For most of my career in tax preparation, we were able to rely on the annual Tax Rate Schedule found in IRS forms and publications. We would refer to page two of the 1040, find the person’s taxable income (line 43 on this year’s form; it’s the amount after the personal exemption and allowable itemized deductions) and then find where that number fits within the income brackets on the Rate Schedule. It was simple, straight forward, and even understandable. Shutterstock While you can still do that exercise, it will not always be correct in answering what the incremental rate on additional income would be. I believe the fuzziness began with the first Bush administration, when the pledge of 'no new taxes' lead to the 'PEP' (personal exemption phase-out) and 'Pease limitation' (named after the late Congressman Donald Pease) phase out of itemized deductions as a way to raise revenue without increasing tax rates. PEP and Pease didn’t affect lower and moderate-income taxpayers; therefore, the majority of taxpayers were not even aware of this odd mechanism of giving and taking back at the same time. Tax rates stayed the same, yet additional revenue was pulled from higher income taxpayers. This year the PEP and Pease limitations begin at $313,800 for married couples and $261,500 for singles. Exacerbating the problem is what I call the 'now you see them, now you don’t' stealth movement of tax incentives that are pegged to various phase-out ranges and income cliffs prevalent in our tax system. In an effort to offer targeted tax benefits and incentives, higher income taxpayers have been phased out or pushed off the entitlement cliff. Often a client will call to ask how a new credit or deduction will benefit them, only to be told it won’t. Their income is too high. This is especially true of education incentives. For 2016 returns, the Lifetime Learning Credit ends as a joint filer’s Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) moves from $111,000 to $131,000; $55,000 to $65,000 for a single filer. The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) isn’t available as a joint filer’s AGI moves from $160,000 to $180,000; $80,000 to $90,000 for single filers. Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, Student Loan Interest Deductions, Tuition and Fees Deduction, and Savings Bond Interest Exclusion all have income phase-out limitations and almost every one of the limits is different from the others. So what is your tax bracket when the next $10,000 of income you receive will prevent you from qualifying for a maximum annual AOTC of $2,500 per eligible student [i] ? (In addition, if the credit brings the amount of tax you owe to zero, you can have 40 percent of any remaining amount of the credit, up to $1,000, refunded to you.) Consider a joint filer in the 25% tax bracket. With the loss of another 25% as a credit (money in your pocket) wouldn’t that make the tax bracket more like 50% on the last stratum of income? Phase out ranges affect many categories of tax deductions, adjustments and credits. They affect how much, and whether, one can contribute as well as whether a deduction or savers credit is allowed for retirement plans and IRAs. They determine whether a person benefits from the Child Tax Credit, Adoption Credit/Exclusion, Elderly/Disabled Credit, whether a person can currently benefit from their rental/passive losses and whether they must pay an Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). For many years AMT (aka Mandatory Maximum Tax) held the honor as the most prevalent stealth tax. While it still holds that honor in terms of sheer numbers affected, two new taxes are quickly rising to the top of the stealth heap. The Additional Medicare Tax as added by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) applies to wages, railroad retirement (RRTA) compensation, and self-employment income over $250,000 for joint filers and $200,000 for singles. The rate is 0.9 percent. Higher income taxpayers who enjoy investment income are not left out of this picture: The Net Investment Income (NII) Tax applies at a rate of 3.8% to certain net investment income of individuals, estates and trusts that have modified AGI above $250,000 for joint filers and $200,000 for singles. And, yes, I’ve seen individual tax returns with all three add-ons (AMT, NII the Additional Medicare Tax) included in the total tax due. Consider tax rates on long-term capital gains and qualified dividends: some taxpayers pay zero; some pay over 23.8%. Some or all net capital gain and qualified dividends may be taxed at 0% if you're in the 10% or 15% ordinary income tax brackets. The 15% bracket ends at $75,300 taxable income for joint filers and $37,650 for singles. After that level, a 15% rate applies until the taxable income reaches the top individual rate of 39.6%: $466,950 for married  joint filers or $415,050 for singles, when a 20% rate applies. But don’t forget the NII tax is applied to a portion of investment income as discussed above, so the rate on capital gains could also be 18.8% or 23.8%. In addition to these basic rates, there are a number of specialty capital gains rates such as those on unrecaptured depreciation of 25%, collectibles of 28%, or exclusions on qualified small business stock. Finally, while you won’t see it on your income tax filing, those taxpayers who are receiving social security and pay Medicare premiums who have modified adjustable gross income (MAGI) above $170,000 for joint filers or $85,000 for singles are often shocked the first time they receive a letter from the Social Security Administration letting them know their basic premium (which is typically $109-$134 in 2017) has been increased for the current year based on their two-year prior MAGI . The premium jumps in four increments from the base level as MAGI increases: $187.50 to $267.90 to $348.30 and finally to $428.60 per month for taxpayers whose MAGI exceeds $428,000 as joint filers or $214,000 as single. These rates are evaluated annually based on the individual’s income level as reported on their tax return. There is no longer a straightforward answer when one asks about their tax bracket. The amount of tax one pays depends on the character and category of income, (sweat of the brow vs. investment, tax exempt or not…and each of these have multiple subcategories and exceptions that could make the income partially taxable or totally excludable). The current tax system clearly lacks transparency and is so complicated that making decisions about one’s family commitments, housing, saving for college or retirement and investment planning cannot be easily done. That’s why I am not able to give my clients a simple or truthful answer to the question about their tax bracket without computer modeling of their personal tax situation to illustrate the movement of the tax based on the addition or subtraction of a specific category of income. Let’s hope as Congress reconvenes, with a promise to look at tax reform, they consider the simple question and provide a straightforward way to respond when American taxpayers ask, '    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The most frequent question tax advisors hear from taxpayers is "What’s my tax bracket?" The truth is, for most of my clients I am not able to answer that question unless I respond, "It depends."

For most of my career in tax preparation, we were able to rely on the annual Tax Rate Schedule found in IRS forms and publications. We would refer to page two of the 1040, find the person’s taxable income (line 43 on this year’s form; it’s the amount after the personal exemption and allowable itemized deductions) and then find where that number fits within the income brackets on the Rate Schedule. It was simple, straight forward, and even understandable.

While you can still do that exercise, it will not always be correct in answering what the incremental rate on additional income would be. I believe the fuzziness began with the first Bush administration, when the pledge of 'no new taxes' lead to the 'PEP' (personal exemption phase-out) and 'Pease limitation' (named after the late Congressman Donald Pease) phase out of itemized deductions as a way to raise revenue without increasing tax rates. PEP and Pease didn’t affect lower and moderate-income taxpayers; therefore, the majority of taxpayers were not even aware of this odd mechanism of giving and taking back at the same time. Tax rates stayed the same, yet additional revenue was pulled from higher income taxpayers. This year the PEP and Pease limitations begin at $313,800 for married couples and $261,500 for singles.

Exacerbating the problem is what I call the 'now you see them, now you don’t' stealth movement of tax incentives that are pegged to various phase-out ranges and income cliffs prevalent in our tax system. In an effort to offer targeted tax benefits and incentives, higher income taxpayers have been phased out or pushed off the entitlement cliff. Often a client will call to ask how a new credit or deduction will benefit them, only to be told it won’t. Their income is too high.

This is especially true of education incentives. For 2016 returns, the Lifetime Learning Credit ends as a joint filer’s Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) moves from $111,000 to $131,000; $55,000 to $65,000 for a single filer. The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) isn’t available as a joint filer’s AGI moves from $160,000 to $180,000; $80,000 to $90,000 for single filers. Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, Student Loan Interest Deductions, Tuition and Fees Deduction, and Savings Bond Interest Exclusion all have income phase-out limitations and almost every one of the limits is different from the others.

So what is your tax bracket when the next $10,000 of income you receive will prevent you from qualifying for a maximum annual AOTC of $2,500 per eligible student[i]? (In addition, if the credit brings the amount of tax you owe to zero, you can have 40 percent of any remaining amount of the credit, up to $1,000, refunded to you.) Consider a joint filer in the 25% tax bracket. With the loss of another 25% as a credit (money in your pocket) wouldn’t that make the tax bracket more like 50% on the last stratum of income?

Phase out ranges affect many categories of tax deductions, adjustments and credits. They affect how much, and whether, one can contribute as well as whether a deduction or savers credit is allowed for retirement plans and IRAs. They determine whether a person benefits from the Child Tax Credit, Adoption Credit/Exclusion, Elderly/Disabled Credit, whether a person can currently benefit from their rental/passive losses and whether they must pay an Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT).

For many years AMT (aka Mandatory Maximum Tax) held the honor as the most prevalent stealth tax. While it still holds that honor in terms of sheer numbers affected, two new taxes are quickly rising to the top of the stealth heap. The Additional Medicare Tax as added by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) applies to wages, railroad retirement (RRTA) compensation, and self-employment income over $250,000 for joint filers and $200,000 for singles. The rate is 0.9 percent. Higher income taxpayers who enjoy investment income are not left out of this picture: The Net Investment Income (NII) Tax applies at a rate of 3.8% to certain net investment income of individuals, estates and trusts that have modified AGI above $250,000 for joint filers and $200,000 for singles. And, yes, I’ve seen individual tax returns with all three add-ons (AMT, NII and the Additional Medicare Tax) included in the total tax due.

Consider tax rates on long-term capital gains and qualified dividends: some taxpayers pay zero; some pay over 23.8%. Some or all net capital gain and qualified dividends may be taxed at 0% if you're in the 10% or 15% ordinary income tax brackets. The 15% bracket ends at $75,300 taxable income for joint filers and $37,650 for singles. After that level, a 15% rate applies until the taxable income reaches the top individual rate of 39.6%: $466,950 for married joint filers or $415,050 for singles, when a 20% rate applies. But don’t forget the NII tax is applied to a portion of investment income as discussed above, so the rate on capital gains could also be 18.8% or 23.8%. In addition to these basic rates, there are a number of specialty capital gains rates such as those on unrecaptured depreciation of 25%, collectibles of 28%, or exclusions on qualified small business stock.

Finally, while you won’t see it on your income tax filing, those taxpayers who are receiving social security and pay Medicare premiums who have modified adjustable gross income (MAGI) above $170,000 for joint filers or $85,000 for singles are often shocked the first time they receive a letter from the Social Security Administration letting them know their basic premium (which is typically $109-$134 in 2017) has been increased for the current year based on their two-year prior MAGI. The premium jumps in four increments from the base level as MAGI increases: $187.50 to $267.90 to $348.30 and finally to $428.60 per month for taxpayers whose MAGI exceeds $428,000 as joint filers or $214,000 as single. These rates are evaluated annually based on the individual’s income level as reported on their tax return.

There is no longer a straightforward answer when one asks about their tax bracket. The amount of tax one pays depends on the character and category of income, (sweat of the brow vs. investment, tax exempt or not…and each of these have multiple subcategories and exceptions that could make the income partially taxable or totally excludable).

The current tax system clearly lacks transparency and is so complicated that making decisions about one’s family commitments, housing, saving for college or retirement and investment planning cannot be easily done. That’s why I am not able to give my clients a simple or truthful answer to the question about their tax bracket without computer modeling of their personal tax situation to illustrate the movement of the tax based on the addition or subtraction of a specific category of income.

Let’s hope as Congress reconvenes, with a promise to look at tax reform, they consider the simple question and provide a straightforward way to respond when American taxpayers ask, 'What’s my tax bracket?'