Cher Calls 'Hardball' to Talk Trump, Women's March: 'People From All Over the World Don't Like Him'
Cher Calls 'Hardball' to Talk Trump, Women's March: 'People From All Over the World Don't Like Him'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Cher Calls 'Hardball' to Talk Trump, Women's March: 'People From All Over the World Don't Like Him'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  "His supporters always call us whiners, but we are going to kick their ass." Cher called in to on Saturday (Jan. 21) after participating in the Women's March against president Donald Trump to speak about the movement and her feelings on the newly inaugurated 45th President of the United States. "People from all over the world don't like him, don't trust him and they don't think he's a good person," the singer said. Anti-Trump marches took place all over the globe on Saturday, just a day after Trump swore into office in Washington, D.C. Cher joined the march in the nation's capital.  Cher responded to comments from some who might criticize the marchers as "sore losers" following their preferred candidate losing the election to Trump, despite receiving more of the popular vote. "You'd be disappointed if Mitt Romney won," said Cher. "Trump is a different thing altogether." The singer, who has been outspoken in her dislike for Trump in the past, noted that she wasn't marching against Trump's supporters. "I actually support his people because they feel disenfranchised and through some sort of miracle they think he will fix their problems." She ended her call with a rallying cry: "His supporters always call us whiners, but we are going to kick their ass."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

"His supporters always call us whiners, but we are going to kick their ass."

Cher called in to Hardball With Chris Matthews on Saturday (Jan. 21) after participating in the Women's March against president Donald Trump to speak about the movement and her feelings on the newly inaugurated 45th President of the United States.

"People from all over the world don't like him, don't trust him and they don't think he's a good person," the singer said.

Anti-Trump marches took place all over the globe on Saturday, just a day after Trump swore into office in Washington, D.C. Cher joined the march in the nation's capital.

Cher responded to comments from some who might criticize the marchers as "sore losers" following their preferred candidate losing the election to Trump, despite receiving more of the popular vote. "You'd be disappointed if Mitt Romney won," said Cher. "Trump is a different thing altogether."

The singer, who has been outspoken in her dislike for Trump in the past, noted that she wasn't marching against Trump's supporters. "I actually support his people because they feel disenfranchised and through some sort of miracle they think he will fix their problems."

She ended her call with a rallying cry: "His supporters always call us whiners, but we are going to kick their ass."

This article originally appeared on The Hollywood Reporter.