Women's March: What drove people to join protests around the world this weekend?



Women's March: What drove people to join protests around the world this weekend?

Updated

Millions of women took to the streets in hundreds of cities around the world on the day after US President Donald Trump's inauguration.

Asked why it had become a global day of action and what they hoped to achieve, here is what some of those that marched had to say:

Meredith Dutterer, 37

Meredith Dutterer, 37, of Clover, South Carolina, came to Washington with her nine-year-old daughter Ellie.

"We came to celebrate women's equality, because she's nine and I'd like for her to have more opportunities than I had," Ms Dutterer said.

Karla Jackson, 56

"I came in support of women's rights and to protect our future and our health, and to prevent backsliding from the few gains we've made in the last few decades," said Karla Jackson, a 56-year-old pensioner from Raleigh, North Carolina.

Logna Bezbaruah, 25

Logna Bezbaruah was one of the protesters who took to the streets of the Indian capital New Delhi.

"I am here because I want to go out without feeling scared of being molested. You face it day and night. It has become normalised," she said.

Gayatri Ashta, 25

In the southern city of Bengaluru, where police are investigating reports of the mass molestation of women on New Year's Eve, protesters said people should fight against sexual harassment being seen as normal.

"I and a lot of my friends have to deal with a lot of crap, mostly from men," said Gayatri Ashta, 25, a technology consultant.

"Somewhere my anger had over the years become acceptance and then plain complacency. This march has reminded me that we don't have to accept this," she said.

Bhanu Pratap Pangtey, 27

"I am here today because I support the cause of equality. Women aren't asking for more rights, just equal rights," said activist Bhanu Pratap Pangtey, 27.

Penny Dedman, 66

In London, organisers said an estimated 80,000 to 100,000 people took part in the march, including Mayor Sadiq Khan.

"I'm here to show support for all the women, especially in Washington," said Penny Dedman, 66.

"They need to see other people coming together. People woke up this morning realising [Mr Trump's presidency] was real. We have to do something about it," she said.

Kip Hall, 42

"In 2017 it's a disgrace there's inequality, so I'm here to support equality and freedom, and protest against sexism and the suppression of women's rights," said writer Kip Hall, another London protester and one of the many men who joined the march.

Diane Lent, 66

Among a crowd in Atlanta huddled under a blanket of umbrellas was Diane Lent, 66, an educator from rural Habersham County, who drove 150 kilometres to attend the rally.

"I'm a woman, I'm a mother, I'm a grandmother - and I believe in justice, and I think we need to stand up for what we believe in," she said.

Mrs Lent said she was concerned about how education would fare under a Trump administration and was worried about his cabinet appointees.

During the campaign, she said she was stunned at the ways he referred to women.

"I was horrified, just horrified that we've come to that point in time again," Ms Lent said.

Stephanie Loveless, 33

In Barcelona, Spain, around 2,500 people joined the protest, organisers said.

"My message is that it is time to wake up and inform ourselves. This is no time to sit by. We need to make it happen," said Stephanie Loveless, 33, a doctoral researcher and organiser of the Barcelona march.

Laura Moodey, 40

Several hundred demonstrators in Mexico held up signs such as "Nasty women keep fighting" and "Girls just wanna have fundamental rights".

The Mexican capital is home to a sizable population of US citizens, and many in the crowd were Americans.

Laura Moodey, a 40-year-old non-profit worker originally from Phoenix, said she was disappointed by Mr Trump's inaugural speech.

"I was hoping for something different. I was hoping to hear the change in tone that we normally hear after a long, bitter campaign," she said.

Topics: us-elections, womens-health, feminism, united-states

First posted