German taxman gives sex workers a break by slashing VAT
German taxman gives sex workers a break by slashing VAT


Hiring a sex worker in Germany is now cheaper after ministers cut VAT on hotel rooms.

People who rent rooms in hotels for half an hour or an hour will no longer have to pay the seven per cent VAT rate after ministers decided it no longer constitutes as 'lodging'.

The tax will have to be paid however if the room is used regularly by a sex worker or brothel, according to The Times.

People who rent rooms in hotels for half an hour or an hour will no longer have to pay a seven per cent VAT rate in Germany after ministers cut the tax (stock image)

The news comes after new legislation was passed in September last year to protect sex workers from clients who don't want to wear condoms.

Fines up to €50,000 can be imposed on people who refuse to wear protection when they visit a sex worker.

Ministers in Germany also passed a 'no means no' law, which aims to make it easier for victims of sex crimes to file criminal complaints by making all unwanted sexual activity illegal, including if the victim is not in a condition to give consent.

The new legislation, which comes into force on July 1, provides for stricter regulation of brothels, and hopes regular confidential conversations with sex workers to help ensure enforcement.

Manuela Schwesig, Germany's minister for women and families, said at the time: ‘Women and men have the right to sexual self-determination.

The news follows tighter laws implemented in Germany to protect sex workers and give them more social benefits (stock image of the red-light district in Hamburg, Germany)

'They can say "no", and have the right for that to be treated as "no", and they have the right to protection from any form of violence.'

Schwesig said many men and women sex workers have been 'defenseless against the power of brothel owners' but the new law will 'protect them from exploitation and violence.'

German law previously required victims to show that they physically resisted attack before charges for rape and other sexual assaults could be brought.

Prostitution was legalised in Germany in 2002 with the aim to monitor the industry, impose a tax and give sex workers social benefits, such as employment contracts, pension plans and health insurance, according to The Telegraph.