Gregg Popovich Rips Donald Trump, Praises Women's March in Washington D.C.
Gregg Popovich Rips Donald Trump, Praises Women's March in Washington D.C.
Gregg Popovich was not shy about his views on politics before or after the 2016 election. He was outspoken in his support of Colin Kaepernick during his national anthem protests, and he ranted in disbelief that the country elected Donald Trump in the days following his electoral college win . President Trump isn't going away, so neither is Popovich. In the video above, provided by Cleveland.com, Popovich went all the way in on Trump while discussing the success of today's Women's March on Washington: "Today was great, that message is important... Our President comes in with the lowest rating of anybody who ever took office. There's a majority of people out there, Hillary [Clinton] won the popular vote, that don't like his act. I just wish he was more... had the ability to be mature enough to do something that really is inclusive... so far we've gotten to the point where you really can't believe anything that comes out of his mouth. All those thousands were over on the rooftops after 9/11, there were like two. He went to Hawaii and checked [Barack Obama's] birth certificate and the investigators couldn't believe what they found." "So it's over and over and over again, and with the CIA today instead of honoring the 117 people behind him where he was speaking, he talked about the size of the crowd. That's worrisome. I'd just feel better if someone was in that position that showed the maturity and psychological, emotional level of someone his age. It's dangerous and doesn't do us any good." "I hope he does a great job, but there's a difference between respecting the office of the Presidency and who occupies it. That respect has to be earned, and it's hard to be respectful of someone when we all have kids and we're watching him be misogynistic, xenophobic and racist." He wasn't done there. Coach Pop saved some ammo for the surrogates and team surrounding Trump, who he feels continue to aid despicable actions by Trump: "What really bothers me are the people around him; the Sean Spicers, the Kellyanne Conways, the Reince Priebuses, who know who he is, and actually have the cynical approach and disingenuous attitude to really defend him and try to make it look like he didn't say what he said. So when he's mad at the media for them reporting what he said, it just boggles my mind." "When Kellyanne Conway the other day said, 'He wasn't really making fun of that handicapped person,' it's beyond, it's incredible. It just really makes you wonder how far will someone go to actually cover for somebody that much. I think the comment was, 'Well you had to look in his heart, you don't know in his heart, you know he wouldn't do that,' but he did it. And all the things that he said during that time, if any of our children would have said it we'd have grounded them for six months, without a doubt." "We ignore all that because, because why? That says something about all of us, and that's dangerous, and that's what scares the hell out of me to this day and makes me uneasy." He may be famously surly during mid-game interviews, but Popovich comes off as measured and well-spoken when discussing issues that impact all Americans. In between keeping the Spurs humming and coaching Team USA, it's good to know the legendary coach is taking time to speak up. sportstips@complex.com

Gregg Popovich was not shy about his views on politics before or after the 2016 election. He was outspoken in his support of Colin Kaepernick during his national anthem protests, and he ranted in disbelief that the country elected Donald Trump in the days following his electoral college win.

President Trump isn't going away, so neither is Popovich. In the video above, provided by Cleveland.com, Popovich went all the way in on Trump while discussing the success of today's Women's March on Washington:

"Today was great, that message is important... Our President comes in with the lowest rating of anybody who ever took office. There's a majority of people out there, Hillary [Clinton] won the popular vote, that don't like his act. I just wish he was more... had the ability to be mature enough to do something that really is inclusive... so far we've gotten to the point where you really can't believe anything that comes out of his mouth. All those thousands were over on the rooftops after 9/11, there were like two. He went to Hawaii and checked [Barack Obama's] birth certificate and the investigators couldn't believe what they found." "So it's over and over and over again, and with the CIA today instead of honoring the 117 people behind him where he was speaking, he talked about the size of the crowd. That's worrisome. I'd just feel better if someone was in that position that showed the maturity and psychological, emotional level of someone his age. It's dangerous and doesn't do us any good." "I hope he does a great job, but there's a difference between respecting the office of the Presidency and who occupies it. That respect has to be earned, and it's hard to be respectful of someone when we all have kids and we're watching him be misogynistic, xenophobic and racist."

He wasn't done there. Coach Pop saved some ammo for the surrogates and team surrounding Trump, who he feels continue to aid despicable actions by Trump:

"What really bothers me are the people around him; the Sean Spicers, the Kellyanne Conways, the Reince Priebuses, who know who he is, and actually have the cynical approach and disingenuous attitude to really defend him and try to make it look like he didn't say what he said. So when he's mad at the media for them reporting what he said, it just boggles my mind." "When Kellyanne Conway the other day said, 'He wasn't really making fun of that handicapped person,' it's beyond, it's incredible. It just really makes you wonder how far will someone go to actually cover for somebody that much. I think the comment was, 'Well you had to look in his heart, you don't know in his heart, you know he wouldn't do that,' but he did it. And all the things that he said during that time, if any of our children would have said it we'd have grounded them for six months, without a doubt." "We ignore all that because, because why? That says something about all of us, and that's dangerous, and that's what scares the hell out of me to this day and makes me uneasy." "But I felt great today watching the march in protest to how he has conducted himself, because it tells me hey, I really do live in a country where a whole lot of people care. And we have to be vigilant, to make sure that, although we all hope he does good things for our country, that we don't get embarrassed by him and roll back liberties that have been worked for for so long in so many different areas."

He may be famously surly during mid-game interviews, but Popovich comes off as measured and well-spoken when discussing issues that impact all Americans. In between keeping the Spurs humming and coaching Team USA, it's good to know the legendary coach is taking time to speak up.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.