Your Playbook If U.S. and China Don't Clash
No U.S.-China Trade Showdown? Here's Your Best Playbook
Your Playbook If U.S. and China Don't Clash   Markets  Andy Mukherjee is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering industrial companies and financial services. He previously was a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. He has also worked for the Straits Times, ET NOW and Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Steven Mnuchin didn't need much wiggle room. When asked at his Senate confirmation hearing if he'd recommend naming and shaming China if it to manipulate the yuan the U.S. Treasury secretary nominee confidently shot back: "I would." But why would he even need to brand China a currency manipulator? Beijing is unlikely to revive a strategy it gave up in 2014. The People's Bank of China is hemorrhaging foreign reserves to keep the yuan from tumbling amid record capital outflows, and those who wanted the country to be punished in the past, like C. Fred Bergsten, founder of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, believe the idea is now " outdated as well as dubious legally ". Even President-elect Donald Trump has decided against labeling China a manipulator on his first day in office. Now he wants to talk to Beijing first. Still, investors can't afford to breathe easy. A $347 billion annual trade deficit with China packs enough cause for mistrust, including an Armageddon scenario in which the U.S. slaps a 45 percent tariff on Chinese-made goods. That, according to Morgan Stanley, would cause an 8 percent slump in earnings of companies in the MSCI China Index this year, compared with the bank's base-case expectation of 8 percent growth. A full-blown trade war and the status quo aren't the only scenarios. Milder skirmishes are also possible. And so is what Morgan Stanley calls a "grand bargain," in which Beijing gets state-owned companies to buy more from America, and the Trump administration goes easy on the People's Republic. In that case, the MSCI China Index gets an EPS of 1 percentage point over Morgan Stanley's present estimate, and companies like ZTE Corp., China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., PetroChina Co., CRRC Corp., Cosco Shipping Holdings Co., Fuyao Glass Industry Group Co., Qingdao Haier Co., Alibaba Pictures Group Ltd., Wanda Cinema Line Co. and IMAX China Holding Inc. end up as winners. For now, investors seem to believe the cheerier outlook. At least, they don't discredit it. A market capitalization-weighted index of the companies selected by the Morgan Stanley strategists is slightly higher now, in yuan terms, than it was at the time of Trump's Nov. 8 election victory. Nor are options trades on benchmark Chinese indexes reflecting any risk of a showdown. If everyone believed a plunge was coming, investors would have to assume much more downside risk than they are at present. A spat is still possible. Even if Trump refrains from naming China a currency manipulator, there's always the danger he would impose a "major" border tax on American firms that manufacture overseas to sell in the U.S. But with Mnuchin saying Trump isn't suggesting a border tax, maybe investors will get lucky, and an all-out trade war will never come to pass. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at amukherjee@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at knicholas2@bloomberg.net Google Play's Starting Spot in China's Market Lukewarm Welcome  Google Won't Play in China   Tech  Stock Surge Revisionist History  Gary Cohn Doesn't Need a Time Machine   Markets  Curves Showing Not So Fast  JPMorgan's China News Is Great...for China   Markets  Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer  Outsized Robot Cars  Blessed Are the Chipmakers   Tech  Thin Cushion Yurt Hurt  Don't Play With Mongolian Fire   Markets

Steven Mnuchin didn't need much wiggle room. When asked at his Senate confirmation hearing if he'd recommend naming and shaming China if it began to manipulate the yuan again, the U.S. Treasury secretary nominee confidently shot back: "I would."

But why would he even need to brand China a currency manipulator? Beijing is unlikely to revive a strategy it gave up in 2014. The People's Bank of China is hemorrhaging foreign reserves to keep the yuan from tumbling amid record capital outflows, and those who wanted the country to be punished in the past, like C. Fred Bergsten, founder of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, believe the idea is now "outdated as well as dubious legally".

Even President-elect Donald Trump has decided against labeling China a manipulator on his first day in office. Now he wants to talk to Beijing first.

Still, investors can't afford to breathe easy. A $347 billion annual trade deficit with China packs enough cause for mistrust, including an Armageddon scenario in which the U.S. slaps a 45 percent tariff on Chinese-made goods. That, according to Morgan Stanley, would cause an 8 percent slump in earnings of companies in the MSCI China Index this year, compared with the bank's base-case expectation of 8 percent growth.

War Games Morgan Stanley's scenarios on what a U.S.-China trade war may mean for the MSCI China Index in 2017 Source: Morgan Stanley

A full-blown trade war and the status quo aren't the only scenarios. Milder skirmishes are also possible. And so is what Morgan Stanley calls a "grand bargain," in which Beijing gets state-owned companies to buy more from America, and the Trump administration goes easy on the People's Republic.

In that case, the MSCI China Index gets an EPS boost of 1 percentage point over Morgan Stanley's present estimate, and companies like ZTE Corp., China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., PetroChina Co., CRRC Corp., Cosco Shipping Holdings Co., Fuyao Glass Industry Group Co., Qingdao Haier Co., Alibaba Pictures Group Ltd., Wanda Cinema Line Co. and IMAX China Holding Inc. end up as winners.

MSCI China Index, YTD +2.9%

For now, investors seem to believe the cheerier outlook. At least, they don't discredit it. A market capitalization-weighted index of the companies selected by the Morgan Stanley strategists is slightly higher now, in yuan terms, than it was at the time of Trump's Nov. 8 election victory.

Trade Triumph After an initial bump post Donald Trump's election win, the fortunes of companies in China that would benefit from smooth trade with the U.S. are starting to turn up again Source: Bloomberg

Nor are options trades on benchmark Chinese indexes reflecting any risk of a showdown. If everyone believed a plunge was coming, investors would have to assume much more downside risk than they are at present.

A spat is still possible. Even if Trump refrains from naming China a currency manipulator, there's always the danger he would impose a "major" border tax on American firms that manufacture overseas to sell in the U.S. But with Mnuchin saying Trump isn't suggesting a border tax, maybe investors will get lucky, and an all-out trade war will never come to pass.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Andy Mukherjee in Singapore at amukherjee@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Katrina Nicholas at knicholas2@bloomberg.net