Watch Big Sean Perform "Bounce Back" And "Sunday Morning Jetpack" On 'SNL'
Watch Big Sean Perform "Bounce Back" And "Sunday Morning Jetpack" On 'SNL'
Big Sean is making his debut as the musical guest on To celebrate the occasion, the Detroit rapper is debuting new music tonight for one of his performances. For the first one, Big Sean did a stripped down performance of "Bounce Back." The second was the premiere of "Sunday Morning Jetpack." You can watch "Sunday Morning Jetpack" above, and "Bounce Back" below. Since Big Sean announced in December, he’s been steadily sharing new teasers off the 14-track project. In an interview with Zane Lowe on Beats 1, he revealed features to include Eminem (“No Favors”), “Sunday Morning Jetpack" (The-Dream), “Super Metro 3” (Metro Boomin), and more. These songs have only built the hype behind which already have singles “Bounce Back,”  “Moves,” and “Halfway off the Balcony” that showcasing a new direction for Sean Don. In another sit-down on , Sean explained the concept of his album artwork. “This is me, and this is an older version of me,” Sean says, comparing the two sides of himself on the cover. “The story of the album is: imagine you went through life and you made all the wrong decisions your whole life. You get to the end of your life and your at a moment where it’s like, ‘God, I did everything wrong. I didn’t work it out with the love of my life. I messed it up with my parents. I’m not doing the job I was sent here to do.’” available on Feb. 3.

Big Sean is making his debut as the musical guest on SNL. To celebrate the occasion, the Detroit rapper is debuting new music tonight for one of his performances.

For the first one, Big Sean did a stripped down performance of "Bounce Back." The second was the premiere of "Sunday Morning Jetpack." You can watch "Sunday Morning Jetpack" above, and "Bounce Back" below.

Since Big Sean announced I Decided in December, he’s been steadily sharing new teasers off the 14-track project. In an interview with Zane Lowe on Beats 1, he revealed features to include Eminem (“No Favors”), “Sunday Morning Jetpack" (The-Dream), “Super Metro 3” (Metro Boomin), and more. These songs have only built the hype behind I Decided, which already have singles “Bounce Back,” “Moves,” and “Halfway off the Balcony” that showcasing a new direction for Sean Don.

In another sit-down on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, Sean explained the concept of his album artwork.

“This is me, and this is an older version of me,” Sean says, comparing the two sides of himself on the cover. “The story of the album is: imagine you went through life and you made all the wrong decisions your whole life. You get to the end of your life and your at a moment where it’s like, ‘God, I did everything wrong. I didn’t work it out with the love of my life. I messed it up with my parents. I’m not doing the job I was sent here to do.’”

I Decided is available on Feb. 3.