Tens of thousands of protesters spill into Chicago's downtown
Tens of thousands of protesters spill into Chicago's downtown
White House Tens of thousands of protesters spill into Chicago's downtown Protesters rally against President Donald Trump during a women's march Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017, in Chicago.  The march is being held in solidarity with similar events taking place in Washington and around the nation. (AP Photo/Paul Beaty) An estimated quarter of a million people showed up to protest the presidency of Donald Trump in Chicago on Saturday, first rallying in Grant Park. Organizers had originally estiamted that 22,000 people would take part, then raising that to 50,000. A few minutes before protesters were set to march, the Chicago police said via Twitter that the march was canceled due to the size of the crowd. Even so, tens of thousands of people who turned out for the march have spilled into the Windy City's downtown streets, chanting and waving signs protesting President Trump. The women carried signs such as "Build Bridges Not Walls" and marchers decried Trump's stand on issues including reproductive health, LGBT rights and climate change. Similar messages were shared at demonstrations around the globe, from New York, Philadelphia, Austin, St. Louis, San Diego and Los Angeles to Paris, Berlin, London, Prague, Sydney and beyond.

An estimated quarter of a million people showed up to protest the presidency of Donald Trump in Chicago on Saturday, first rallying in Grant Park.

Organizers had originally estiamted that 22,000 people would take part, then raising that to 50,000. A few minutes before protesters were set to march, the Chicago police said via Twitter that the march was canceled due to the size of the crowd.

Even so, tens of thousands of people who turned out for the march have spilled into the Windy City's downtown streets, chanting and waving signs protesting President Trump.

The women carried signs such as "Build Bridges Not Walls" and marchers decried Trump's stand on issues including reproductive health, LGBT rights and climate change. Similar messages were shared at demonstrations around the globe, from New York, Philadelphia, Austin, St. Louis, San Diego and Los Angeles to Paris, Berlin, London, Prague, Sydney and beyond.

CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON THIS STORY FROM FOX 32.