The Most Amazing Celebrity Biopic Transformations
The Most Amazing Celebrity Biopic Transformations
Margot Robbie was recently seen on the set of the upcoming film . The Australian actress completely embodied two-time Olympian Tonya Harding. She was sporting the figure skater’s look in the ’90s, from the wavy blond hair to the high-waisted jeans. This isn’t the first time we’ve seen an amazing transformation for a movie or TV role. Actors usually Yahoo Celebrity put together a list of Hollywood’s heavy hitters who drastically changed their body or appearance to get into character. The talented actor transformed into America’s beloved President Lincoln. Director Steven Spielberg said he had the perfect voice for the 16th president. This bombshell put on 30 pounds for . Charlize was portraying Aileen Wournos, a former prostitute turned serial killer. The dramatic transformation earned Charlize an Academy Award for Best Actress. Paulson shined as Marcia Clark in In her Emmy acceptance speech, she said, “The responsibility of playing a real person is an enormous one. You want to get it right, not for you, but for them.” The Texas native played another Texan, Ron Woodroof, in . Playing an HIV/AIDS patient, McConaughey had to drop nearly 50 pounds. He won an Oscar for Best Actor for his performance. The actor packed on 60 pounds in to play the role of the man who killed John Lennon. Leto declined to wear a fat suit and said of the weight gain, “It changed the way that I walked. It changed the way that I talked. It changed the way I felt about myself and the way people looked at me and treated me.” He played an impressive Liberace in . With makeup, hair, and wardrobe, Douglas fully transformed into the famed entertainer.  Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram ,

Margot Robbie was recently seen on the set of the upcoming film I, Tonya. The Australian actress completely embodied two-time Olympian Tonya Harding. She was sporting the figure skater’s look in the ’90s, from the wavy blond hair to the high-waisted jeans.

This isn’t the first time we’ve seen an amazing transformation for a movie or TV role. Actors usually go to great lengths to look the part. Yahoo Celebrity put together a list of Hollywood’s heavy hitters who drastically changed their body or appearance to get into character.

Daniel Day-Lewis. The talented actor transformed into America’s beloved President Lincoln. Director Steven Spielberg said he had the perfect voice for the 16th president. Charlize Theron. This bombshell put on 30 pounds for Monster. Charlize was portraying Aileen Wournos, a former prostitute turned serial killer. The dramatic transformation earned Charlize an Academy Award for Best Actress. Sarah Paulson. Paulson shined as Marcia Clark in The People v. O.J. Simpson. In her Emmy acceptance speech, she said, “The responsibility of playing a real person is an enormous one. You want to get it right, not for you, but for them.” Matthew McConaughey. The Texas native played another Texan, Ron Woodroof, in Dallas Buyers Club. Playing an HIV/AIDS patient, McConaughey had to drop nearly 50 pounds. He won an Oscar for Best Actor for his performance. Jared Leto. The actor packed on 60 pounds in Chapter 27 to play the role of the man who killed John Lennon. Leto declined to wear a fat suit and said of the weight gain, “It changed the way that I walked. It changed the way that I talked. It changed the way I felt about myself and the way people looked at me and treated me.” Michael Douglas. He played an impressive Liberace in Behind the Candelabra. With makeup, hair, and wardrobe, Douglas fully transformed into the famed entertainer.

Take a look back at Dolly Parton’s career as the queen of country music turns 71.



Tell us what you think! Share your comments with us on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Julissa Bermudez, on Twitter.