19 Dead Over 48 Hours as Tornadoes Wreak Havoc in the South
19 Dead Over 48 Hours as Tornadoes Wreak Havoc in the South
Shares               At least 19 people have died over the last 48 hours due to tornadoes, as a violent system of storms made its way across the South from Mississippi to the Florida Panhandle and parts of Alabama and Georgia. At least 15 people died and around two dozen were injured in Georgia from tornadoes early Sunday morning, following four tornado-related deaths that occurred in Mississippi on Saturday morning. According to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency, four people died in Dougherty County near Albany, seven in Cook County near Adel, and two people died in both Berrien and Brooks counties.   After storms ripped through the region overnight, more tornado watches were issued today for the Florida Panhandle and southern Alabama, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency has issued a state of emergency for the seven south central Georgia counties impacted by the storm. "The National Weather Service predicts a third wave of severe weather today, which may reach as far north as metro Atlanta. I urge all Georgians to exercise caution and vigilance in order to remain safe and prevent further loss of life or injuries," Nathan Deal, the governor of Georgia, said in a statement.   President Trump expressed condolences to the people of Georgia affected by the tornadoes. "I want to start off by telling you I just spoke with Gov. Nathan Deal of Georgia, great state, great people," Trump said. "Florida affected, Alabama affected by the tornadoes, and just expressed our sincere condolences for the lives taken." Trump added that the tornadoes "were vicious and powerful and strong," and said that people suffered as a result of them. "So we'll be helping out the state of Georgia," Trump added. Images on social media showed telephone poles cracked in half. Entire streets looked as if they had been torn apart by the storms.  Multiple structures damaged in downtown Hattiesburg. #mswx  pic.twitter.com/6E9dE3eyzY  "There are houses just demolished," Norma Ford, a resident of Albany, Georgia, who rushed out with other relatives Sunday evening after hearing a reported twister had overturned her nephew's mobile home, told the Associated Press. Ford told the AP that downed trees and powerlines blocked roads. Many in the region went without power overnight.   Michael Miller, coroner in Brooks County, Georgia, told ABC News that two deaths were confirmed in his county with five more fatalities in Cook County and four more in nearby Berrien County. At least 23 other people in the state are injured.   In the area of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, where at least four people died, a large tornado leveled homes and buildings, trapping residents in their homes, authorities said. Further north in Choctaw County, Mississippi, on Saturday at least four people were injured and at least 20 homes damaged from a possible tornado, according to the National Weather Service.  Shares                  19 Dead Over 48 Hours as Tornadoes Wreak Havoc in the South   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

At least 19 people have died over the last 48 hours due to tornadoes, as a violent system of storms made its way across the South from Mississippi to the Florida Panhandle and parts of Alabama and Georgia.

At least 15 people died and around two dozen were injured in Georgia from tornadoes early Sunday morning, following four tornado-related deaths that occurred in Mississippi on Saturday morning.

According to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency, four people died in Dougherty County near Albany, seven in Cook County near Adel, and two people died in both Berrien and Brooks counties.

Branden Camp/AP Photo

After storms ripped through the region overnight, more tornado watches were issued today for the Florida Panhandle and southern Alabama, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency has issued a state of emergency for the seven south central Georgia counties impacted by the storm.

"The National Weather Service predicts a third wave of severe weather today, which may reach as far north as metro Atlanta. I urge all Georgians to exercise caution and vigilance in order to remain safe and prevent further loss of life or injuries," Nathan Deal, the governor of Georgia, said in a statement.

Branden Camp/AP Photo

President Trump expressed condolences to the people of Georgia affected by the tornadoes.

"I want to start off by telling you I just spoke with Gov. Nathan Deal of Georgia, great state, great people," Trump said. "Florida affected, Alabama affected by the tornadoes, and just expressed our sincere condolences for the lives taken."

Trump added that the tornadoes "were vicious and powerful and strong," and said that people suffered as a result of them.

"So we'll be helping out the state of Georgia," Trump added.

Images on social media showed telephone poles cracked in half. Entire streets looked as if they had been torn apart by the storms.

"There are houses just demolished," Norma Ford, a resident of Albany, Georgia, who rushed out with other relatives Sunday evening after hearing a reported twister had overturned her nephew's mobile home, told the Associated Press.

Ford told the AP that downed trees and powerlines blocked roads. Many in the region went without power overnight.

Rogelio V. Solis/AP Photo

Michael Miller, coroner in Brooks County, Georgia, told ABC News that two deaths were confirmed in his county with five more fatalities in Cook County and four more in nearby Berrien County.

At least 23 other people in the state are injured.

Branden Camp/AP Photo

In the area of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, where at least four people died, a large tornado leveled homes and buildings, trapping residents in their homes, authorities said.

Further north in Choctaw County, Mississippi, on Saturday at least four people were injured and at least 20 homes damaged from a possible tornado, according to the National Weather Service.

ABC News' David Caplan, Brendan Rand and Matt Foster contributed to this report.