32 Of The Most Powerful Photos Of Women’s Marches Around The World
32 Of The Most Powerful Photos Of Women's Marches Around The World
Washington, DC Nadia da Rosa, 15, from Providence, R.I., attends the Women’s March on Washington. Paris Protesters to the Eiffel Tower, in Paris, France. Las Vegas, Nevada A woman yells at a man dressed as Adolf Hitler. Athens, Greece A boy carries a sign as migrants and refugees demonstrate in Athens. Park City, Utah Civil rights activist Dolores Huerta participates in the “Women’s March On Main” during the 2017 Sundance Film Festival. Berlin A woman wears a US flag like a hijab during a protest of US Democrats Abroad in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. Trump Tower, New York City Security in front of Trump Tower during the Women’s March. Helsinki, Finland A protester holds up a poster depicting US President Donald Trump and German dictator Adolf Hitler. Antarctica Pre-march photo! #womensMarchAntarctica ❤️🐧 Washington, DC Protesters march down Pennsylvania avenue. Barcelona Trenton, New Jersey Susie Kane, center, of Ewing, NJ, holds up a sign while taking part in a rally in support at Patriots Theater at the War Memorial in Trenton, NJ. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Three women lead a group of more than a thousand people in the East Liberty section of Pittsburgh. New Orleans Charlotte Crist, left, wearing an American flag burka poses for a photo with Destinee Henry, right, at Washington Square Park where where over 1,000 people gathered. Washington, DC Protesters walk on Independence Avenue during the Women’s March on Washington, Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017 in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) New York Demonstrators across Madison Avenue. Atlanta U.S. Rep. John Lewis reaches out to shake hands. Washington, DC Batala D.C. performs during the Women’s March on Washington. London A protester in a Statue of Liberty costume marches from The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square towards Trafalgar Square. New York Kate Weigel, right, of Brewer, Maine, cheers. Chicago Barcelona Belgrade, Serbia Activists hold a banner that reads “Women’s March against Fascism” during the Women’s March in Belgrade, Serbia. St. Louis, Missouri Washington, DC Protesters arrive on the platform at the Capital South Metro station for the Women’s March on Washington. Mexico City Emilia Reyes, 41, left, breaks away from a Women’s March to pose for a picture with 15-year-old Daniela Rivera, who had been at the Angel of Independence Monument to take her quinceañera pictures. Several hundred people, many of them Americans, shut down four lanes of a major Mexico City boulevard as they protested in front of the U.S. embassy. Denver Demonstrators gather at Civic Center Park in Denver, Colorado. Amsterdam Demonstrators make their way from the iamsterdam statue in front of the Rijksmuseum towards US Consulate during the Women’s March held at Museumplein. Rome Budapest, Hungary London A protester carries an effigy of President Donald Trump during the Women’s March in London, England. Los Angeles   Amnesty International Says Syria Is Secretly Executing...    Turnbull’s New Social Media Manager Once Resigned Over...

26. Mexico City

Rebecca Blackwell / AP

Emilia Reyes, 41, left, breaks away from a Women’s March to pose for a picture with 15-year-old Daniela Rivera, who had been at the Angel of Independence Monument to take her quinceañera pictures. Several hundred people, many of them Americans, shut down four lanes of a major Mexico City boulevard as they protested in front of the U.S. embassy.