How President Trump Could Bring About A Safer Greater World Peace
How President Trump Could Bring About A Safer Greater World Peace
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ralph Benko       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. U.S. President-elect Donald Trump takes the oath of office as First Lady-elect Melania Trump stands during the 58th presidential inauguration in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg As I have argued here, repeatedly, Donald Trump won the presidency on a platform of peace and prosperity. Now, as he himself recently told The ’s Karen Tumulty, "you still have to produce the results." There’s more than a little anxiety about whether Trump’s proposed economic policies will produce jobs. Tariffs are seen by many, including me, as a jobs catastrophe waiting to happen. There is hope these will prove a bargaining chip rather than a Thing. Moreover, there is a safe way to get to the desired result through the border adjustment provision in the Ryan-Brady tax reform proposal. This is designed to reallocate about a trillion dollars in taxes from America to its trading partners, in a WTO-legal way, eliminating a 14% handicap on US exporters without toying with the risk of a tariff war. As commentator Steve Moore observed : Donald Trump is right. What we have in America is not free trade. It is stupid trade, with the deck stacked against American producers and workers. Our federal tax is effectively a 35 percent tariff imposed on our own goods and services. ... To create a level playing field, the U.S. has to reconstitute our tax system. This can be accomplished by lowering the tax rate and then turning the tax on its head so we are taxing our imports but not our exports. In other words, we should tax activities based on where they are consumed, not where they are produced. This is called a border-adjustable tax system. Here are the reasons we need it: 1) It will end all talk of tariffs and trade wars. At various times, Trump has suggested between 5 and 35 percent tariffs on foreign goods imported here. But tariffs violate our trade agreements and often lead to retaliatory measures by other countries. A better solution is to impose the Trump 15 percent corporate income tax on goods when they are brought into the U.S. and to exempt goods produced in the United States that are sold outside the country. This tax does not violate trade laws and only mirrors the valued-added tax systems other countries use to gain advantage over us. The Trump proposed tax cuts are increasingly sideways with those of the Congressional Republicans. 14% is so close to the rumored 15% tariff percolating among Trump advisors as to be immaterial. Trump easily could embrace Ryan-Brady and declare victory over the Washington Establishment. On a separate track Donald Trump could decisively end currency manipulation by re-establishing the classical gold standard, of which he has shown an extraordinarily strong grasp . But will he? Thus: jitters. The financial markets are, well, exuberant. They always are until, like Wile E. Coyote having overrun the cliff’s edge, they look down. Meanwhile, happily, there is an amazing ray of sunshine over on the peace side. One really great Holy Grail of many progressives is the deep reduction, toward the elimination, of nuclear weapons. Paradoxically this has been achieved predominantly by Republicans. Now Donald Trump plausibly promises to continue that excellent progress. Maybe it’s a “Nixon to China” thing.  Only a president with the anti-communist credentials (whether justified or not) of a Richard Nixon had the political space to recognize the People’s Republic of China without being attacked as soft on communism. Maybe only Republicans have the "tough guy" cred to seriously scrap our Bad Toys. As reported by The , channeling Trump recently stated, “For one thing, I think nuclear weapons should be way down and reduced very substantially, that’s part of it. But Russia’s hurting very badly right now because of sanctions, but I think something can happen that a lot of people are gonna benefit.” Trading nukes for lifting sanctions is brilliant strategy would achieve a Great Thing for America and the world. Further, and substantially, reducing the number of nuclear weapons in the world would be a magnificent achievement. Much has already been achieved, without due recognition, along these lines.  As the Federation of American Scientists observed : I know, it sounds strange but the record is very clear: During the post-Cold War era, Republication administrations have – by far – reduced the US nuclear weapons stockpile more than Democratic administrations…. … Even if we don’t count numbers of weapons (because arsenals have gotten smaller) but only look at by how much the nuclear stockpile was reduced, the history is clear: Republican presidents disarm more than Democrats…. As the also observed: The United States and Russia are by far the world’s biggest nuclear powers. The United States has 1,367 nuclear warheads on deployed strategic missiles and bombers, while Russia has 1,796 such deployed warheads, according to the latest published assessment by the U.S. State Department. Let it be noted that this is down from a collective 60,000 warheads at peak in 1985. That’s about a 95% reduction. That’s a very big deal. It deserves more celebration than it has been given. Let's push the trend! Trump provides a double benefit by including the removal, on humanitarian grounds, of economic sanctions on Russia.  Very much win-win. There has been notable progressive resistance to removing the sanctions placed upon Russia for its annexation, via plebiscite, of Crimea.  That resistance demonstrates an internal contradiction in the progressive opposition. When Obama made a major step forward in the process of removing sanctions on Cuba he stated : To those who oppose the steps I’m announcing today, let me say that I respect your passion and share your commitment to liberty and democracy.  The question is how we uphold that commitment.  I do not believe we can keep doing the same thing for over five decades and expect a different result.  Moreover, it does not serve America’s interests, or the Cuban people, to try to push Cuba toward collapse.  Even if that worked -– and it hasn’t for 50 years –- we know from hard-earned experience that countries are more likely to enjoy lasting transformation if their people are not subjected to chaos.  We are calling on Cuba to unleash the potential of 11 million Cubans by ending unnecessary restrictions on their political, social, and economic activities.  In that spirit, we should not allow U.S. sanctions to add to the burden of Cuban citizens that we seek to help. This was widely, and astutely, applauded by the left. Nor should we allow U.S. sanctions to add to the burden of Russian citizens. There is room for disagreement about Trump’s stated mechanism for this deal by those appalled by the Russian incursions into, especially, Ukraine and who believe that America has a moral duty to intervene. Yet few, conservatives as well as progressives, would disagree that further deep reduction, perhaps even elimination, of nuclear weapons would be a wonderful thing and a historic legacy for any president. Thus, we confront a precious opportunity. It is one which, moreover could bring about a qualitative as well as quantitative reduction in the nuclear threat.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As I have argued here, repeatedly, Donald Trump won the presidency on a platform of peace and prosperity. Now, as he himself recently told The Washington Post’s Karen Tumulty, "you still have to produce the results."

There’s more than a little anxiety about whether Trump’s proposed economic policies will produce jobs. Tariffs are seen by many, including me, as a jobs catastrophe waiting to happen. There is hope these will prove a bargaining chip rather than a Thing. Moreover, there is a safe way to get to the desired result through the border adjustment provision in the Ryan-Brady tax reform proposal. This is designed to reallocate about a trillion dollars in taxes from America to its trading partners, in a WTO-legal way, eliminating a 14% handicap on US exporters without toying with the risk of a tariff war.

As commentator Steve Moore observed:

Donald Trump is right. What we have in America is not free trade. It is stupid trade, with the deck stacked against American producers and workers. Our federal tax is effectively a 35 percent tariff imposed on our own goods and services. ... To create a level playing field, the U.S. has to reconstitute our tax system. This can be accomplished by lowering the tax rate and then turning the tax on its head so we are taxing our imports but not our exports. In other words, we should tax activities based on where they are consumed, not where they are produced. This is called a border-adjustable tax system. Here are the reasons we need it: 1) It will end all talk of tariffs and trade wars. At various times, Trump has suggested between 5 and 35 percent tariffs on foreign goods imported here. But tariffs violate our trade agreements and often lead to retaliatory measures by other countries. A better solution is to impose the Trump 15 percent corporate income tax on goods when they are brought into the U.S. and to exempt goods produced in the United States that are sold outside the country. This tax does not violate trade laws and only mirrors the valued-added tax systems other countries use to gain advantage over us.

The Trump proposed tax cuts are increasingly sideways with those of the Congressional Republicans. 14% is so close to the rumored 15% tariff percolating among Trump advisors as to be immaterial. Trump easily could embrace Ryan-Brady and declare victory over the Washington Establishment. On a separate track Donald Trump could decisively end currency manipulation by re-establishing the classical gold standard, of which he has shown an extraordinarily strong grasp. But will he?

Thus: jitters. The financial markets are, well, exuberant. They always are until, like Wile E. Coyote having overrun the cliff’s edge, they look down.

Meanwhile, happily, there is an amazing ray of sunshine over on the peace side.

One really great Holy Grail of many progressives is the deep reduction, toward the elimination, of nuclear weapons. Paradoxically this has been achieved predominantly by Republicans. Now Donald Trump plausibly promises to continue that excellent progress.

Maybe it’s a “Nixon to China” thing. Only a president with the anti-communist credentials (whether justified or not) of a Richard Nixon had the political space to recognize the People’s Republic of China without being attacked as soft on communism. Maybe only Republicans have the "tough guy" cred to seriously scrap our Bad Toys.

As reported by The Huffington Post, channeling Reuters:

Trump recently stated, “For one thing, I think nuclear weapons should be way down and reduced very substantially, that’s part of it. But Russia’s hurting very badly right now because of sanctions, but I think something can happen that a lot of people are gonna benefit.”

Trading nukes for lifting sanctions is brilliant strategy would achieve a Great Thing for America and the world. Further, and substantially, reducing the number of nuclear weapons in the world would be a magnificent achievement. Much has already been achieved, without due recognition, along these lines. As the Federation of American Scientists observed:

I know, it sounds strange but the record is very clear: During the post-Cold War era, Republication administrations have – by far – reduced the US nuclear weapons stockpile more than Democratic administrations…. … Even if we don’t count numbers of weapons (because arsenals have gotten smaller) but only look at by how much the nuclear stockpile was reduced, the history is clear: Republican presidents disarm more than Democrats….

As the Huffington Post also observed:

The United States and Russia are by far the world’s biggest nuclear powers. The United States has 1,367 nuclear warheads on deployed strategic missiles and bombers, while Russia has 1,796 such deployed warheads, according to the latest published assessment by the U.S. State Department.

Let it be noted that this is down from a collective 60,000 warheads at peak in 1985. That’s about a 95% reduction. That’s a very big deal. It deserves more celebration than it has been given. Let's push the trend!

Trump provides a double benefit by including the removal, on humanitarian grounds, of economic sanctions on Russia. Very much win-win. There has been notable progressive resistance to removing the sanctions placed upon Russia for its annexation, via plebiscite, of Crimea. That resistance demonstrates an internal contradiction in the progressive opposition. When Obama made a major step forward in the process of removing sanctions on Cuba he stated:

To those who oppose the steps I’m announcing today, let me say that I respect your passion and share your commitment to liberty and democracy. The question is how we uphold that commitment. I do not believe we can keep doing the same thing for over five decades and expect a different result. Moreover, it does not serve America’s interests, or the Cuban people, to try to push Cuba toward collapse. Even if that worked -– and it hasn’t for 50 years –- we know from hard-earned experience that countries are more likely to enjoy lasting transformation if their people are not subjected to chaos. We are calling on Cuba to unleash the potential of 11 million Cubans by ending unnecessary restrictions on their political, social, and economic activities. In that spirit, we should not allow U.S. sanctions to add to the burden of Cuban citizens that we seek to help.

This was widely, and astutely, applauded by the left. Nor should we allow U.S. sanctions to add to the burden of Russian citizens.

There is room for disagreement about Trump’s stated mechanism for this deal by those appalled by the Russian incursions into, especially, Ukraine and who believe that America has a moral duty to intervene. Yet few, conservatives as well as progressives, would disagree that further deep reduction, perhaps even elimination, of nuclear weapons would be a wonderful thing and a historic legacy for any president.

Thus, we confront a precious opportunity. It is one which, moreover could bring about a qualitative as well as quantitative reduction in the nuclear threat.