Good Morning America had an incredibly offensive way of introducing Hillary Clinton
Good Morning America had an incredibly offensive way of introducing Hillary Clinton
Former U.S. Secretary of State. Former U.S. Senator from New York and First Lady of the United States. Democratic nominee for President of the United States, and winner of the popular vote in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, which could have made her the first female President in history. Long-time politician, campaigner, diplomat, law school graduate and philanthropist. Ringing any bells? Hillary has an impressive resume, by anyone's standards. So some were surprised when, upon her arrival to the inauguration of Donald Trump as President, Good Morning America referred to her quite bizarrely as... LIVE NOW: Former Pres. Bill Clinton and wife Hillary Clinton arrive at the U.S. Capitol on #InaugurationDay : https://t.co/awrxco46Zw  pic.twitter.com/TPvfca41mO  "Wife" https://t.co/S1u9uuGl2Z  Yes. Hillary Clinton, possibly the most famous woman in the world in 2016, and certainly the most famous female politician, was referred to simply as "wife Hillary Clinton". I think you meant "former Secretary of State and candidate who won more popular votes than Donald Trump," @GMA . https://t.co/eWysA6br7V  @GMA you spelled popular vote winner and former Secretary of State wrong  @gma “Wife”? Seriously? She’s a former senator and Secretary of State. Shameful. Delete your account. You’re just awful.  @GMA and "wife"?!?! pic.twitter.com/oxSBTVOeYa                      Keep scrolling for next article

Hillary Clinton. Remember her?

Former U.S. Secretary of State. Former U.S. Senator from New York and First Lady of the United States.

Democratic nominee for President of the United States, and winner of the popular vote in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, which could have made her the first female President in history.

Long-time politician, campaigner, diplomat, law school graduate and philanthropist.

Ringing any bells?

Hillary has an impressive resume, by anyone's standards.

So some were surprised when, upon her arrival to the inauguration of Donald Trump as President, Good Morning America referred to her quite bizarrely as...

LIVE NOW: Former Pres. Bill Clinton and wife Hillary Clinton arrive at the U.S. Capitol on #InaugurationDay: https://t.co/awrxco46Zw pic.twitter.com/TPvfca41mO — Good Morning America (@GMA) January 20, 2017

Notice any problem?

Yes. Hillary Clinton, possibly the most famous woman in the world in 2016, and certainly the most famous female politician, was referred to simply as "wife Hillary Clinton".

Interesting.

I think you meant "former Secretary of State and candidate who won more popular votes than Donald Trump," @GMA. https://t.co/eWysA6br7V — Gabe Ortíz (@TUSK81) January 20, 2017

@GMA you spelled popular vote winner and former Secretary of State wrong — Julia M. Payne (@jmpayne24) January 20, 2017

@gma “Wife”? Seriously? She’s a former senator and Secretary of State. Shameful. Delete your account. You’re just awful. — J.P. Wing (@flyMachias) January 20, 2017





More: Hillary Clinton wore little make-up for her speech - and everybody's talking about it

More: Hillary Clinton is the first female presidential candidate in history. Donald Trump just bodyshamed her