H. Moser & Cie. Creates $1 Million Watch Made Of Genuine Swiss Cheese
H. Moser & Cie. Creates $1 Million Watch Made Of Genuine Swiss Cheese
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Elizabeth Doerr       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The case of H. Moser & Cie.'s million-dollar Swiss Mad watch is made of Vacherin Mont d’Or médaille d’or cheese combined with a composite material If you’re a small manufacturer with incredibly high quality, deep verticalization and low volume, how do you stand out against other good manufacturers in your neck of the woods? By making provocative statements and spilling a bit of unsaid truth, according to the young, energetic CEO of H. Moser & Cie. And by using marketing tools that the conservative Swiss watch industry has not yet tried out, including satire, irony, and even a bit of comedy. Edouard Meylan, CEO of H. Moser & Cie., a young luxury brand with a long historical story, has begun doing just that. Last year Meylan poked a bit of fun at the watch industry’s growing fear of smartwatches as well as the consumers’ growing fascination with them by introducing the Swiss Alp Watch, a luxury timepiece that looks so much like an Apple Watch from a distance that even industry insiders could have been fooled at a quick glance. The joke, of course, is that the rounded rectangular case contained a beautifully in-house manufactured, manually wound movement that is about as far from smartwatch electronics as one could get. Satire: H. Moser & Cie Swiss Alp Watch of 2016 "The Swiss Alp Watch does not allow you to make calls or send messages to share the latest gossip; it does not give you the option to send beautiful sketches you have created on a two-inch screen or to share your heart rate. It does much more than that: it lets you reconnect to what matters in life. It takes you back to sharing emotions with your nearest and dearest without a filter, interface or embellishment. Most importantly, it is something you can pass on to your children one day without having to upgrade!" Meylan explained. This watch released just before the first watch fair of 2016, the luxurious SIHH, made quite a splash – at least in the media – and certainly won the boutique brand a few new friends. Just this week, ahead of SIHH 2017, where Meylan’s brand will exhibit new luxury watches along with about 20 other ultra-high-end marques, the youthful CEO releases something that has managed to capture large amounts of attention in just one short day: the first Swiss watch housed in a case made of hardened Swiss cheese, a strap made of cowhide (okay, that part isn’t new: the now-defunct Michel Jordi already serially offered this type of strap back in the 1980s and 1990s), and a red dial reminiscent of the Swiss flag. A Vacherin Mont d’Or médaille d’or cheese comprises the base for the case, which has been mixed with a composite itr2 material made with carbon nanotubes (the same used in the Pebble 2 Smartwatch, by the way) before being machined and polished. And, no, it doesn’t smell. The price of the unique-piece watch is an equally symbolic 1,081,291 Swiss francs, which references the date of the signing of the Swiss Federal Charter on August 1, 1291. The proceeds from its sale – should it really ever find a buyer – will be used to create a fund to support independent Swiss suppliers to the watch industry, who currently suffer greatly under widespread outsourcing to Asia and the equally difficult economic climate. The irreverent and symbolic one-off piece has a real purpose, though, which becomes exceedingly obvious when you watch the video staged in a Swiss barn that the normally exceedingly dapper Meylan has just released. The idea behind this is to draw attention to the freshly passed law regarding the use of the words “Swiss made.” As of January 1, 2017 Swiss law requires 60 percent of a watch’s value to be created in Switzerland, up from the previous 50 percent. For consumers not in the know, this law contains so many loopholes that it is possible to purchase a “Swiss made” watch that may have little content actually originating in Switzerland. This is not new, but Meylan objects to a modified law that changes almost nothing, yet allows brands who so desire to market their products using this “tightened” label. “As you may know, since January 1, 2017, the regulations surrounding the Swiss Made label have been modified. Some see it as an improvement, strengthening the requirements; I frankly believe that the Swiss Made label is even weaker today that it was before,” Meylan explained to me just a couple of days ago via e-mail. “We have even decided to remove ‘Swiss Made’ from our dials for all of our new collections because we strongly believe that the Swiss Made label is deceiving as it gives many brands the legitimacy to over-price their products and it promotes a false perception for customers about a Swiss made watch and the reality of what is actually made in Switzerland.” The back of the H. Moser Cie. Swiss Mad watch offers a view of the in-house manually wound movement Just to clarify: many of the world’s best Swiss (and German!) brands do not have “Swiss made” on their dials, but many do. And those who do often bank on the idea that the consumer finds a “Swiss made” watch to be better quality than one made elsewhere. Meylan’s personal campaign makes sense on several levels, including the fact that he can simultaneously also draw attention to the fact that his watches are more Swiss than most. Meylan, who comes from a generations-old family of watchmakers, dubs this creative “cheesy” timepiece the Moser Swiss Mad watch, and it is a real testament to Meylan’s sense of humor and self-irony. As is his hashtag #MakeSwissMadeGreatAgain. For another example of one of Meylan’s novel ideas, see Groundbreaking Or Bunk? Talking Zero Gravity And Pioneer Collection With Edouard Meylan, CEO Of H. Moser & Cie . For more on Moser’s history and best-known watch, see H. Moser & Cie. Endeavour Perpetual Calendar On The Wrist .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you’re a small manufacturer with incredibly high quality, deep verticalization and low volume, how do you stand out against other good manufacturers in your neck of the woods?

By making provocative statements and spilling a bit of unsaid truth, according to the young, energetic CEO of H. Moser & Cie.

And by using marketing tools that the conservative Swiss watch industry has not yet tried out, including satire, irony, and even a bit of comedy.

Edouard Meylan, CEO of H. Moser & Cie., a young luxury brand with a long historical story, has begun doing just that.

Last year Meylan poked a bit of fun at the watch industry’s growing fear of smartwatches as well as the consumers’ growing fascination with them by introducing the Swiss Alp Watch, a luxury timepiece that looks so much like an Apple Watch from a distance that even industry insiders could have been fooled at a quick glance. The joke, of course, is that the rounded rectangular case contained a beautifully in-house manufactured, manually wound movement that is about as far from smartwatch electronics as one could get.

"The Swiss Alp Watch does not allow you to make calls or send messages to share the latest gossip; it does not give you the option to send beautiful sketches you have created on a two-inch screen or to share your heart rate. It does much more than that: it lets you reconnect to what matters in life. It takes you back to sharing emotions with your nearest and dearest without a filter, interface or embellishment. Most importantly, it is something you can pass on to your children one day without having to upgrade!" Meylan explained.

This watch released just before the first watch fair of 2016, the luxurious SIHH, made quite a splash – at least in the media – and certainly won the boutique brand a few new friends.

Just this week, ahead of SIHH 2017, where Meylan’s brand will exhibit new luxury watches along with about 20 other ultra-high-end marques, the youthful CEO releases something that has managed to capture large amounts of attention in just one short day: the first Swiss watch housed in a case made of hardened Swiss cheese, a strap made of cowhide (okay, that part isn’t new: the now-defunct Michel Jordi already serially offered this type of strap back in the 1980s and 1990s), and a red dial reminiscent of the Swiss flag.

A Vacherin Mont d’Or médaille d’or cheese comprises the base for the case, which has been mixed with a composite itr2 material made with carbon nanotubes (the same used in the Pebble 2 Smartwatch, by the way) before being machined and polished.

And, no, it doesn’t smell.

The price of the unique-piece watch is an equally symbolic 1,081,291 Swiss francs, which references the date of the signing of the Swiss Federal Charter on August 1, 1291. The proceeds from its sale – should it really ever find a buyer – will be used to create a fund to support independent Swiss suppliers to the watch industry, who currently suffer greatly under widespread outsourcing to Asia and the equally difficult economic climate.

The irreverent and symbolic one-off piece has a real purpose, though, which becomes exceedingly obvious when you watch the video staged in a Swiss barn that the normally exceedingly dapper Meylan has just released.

The idea behind this is to draw attention to the freshly passed law regarding the use of the words “Swiss made.” As of January 1, 2017 Swiss law requires 60 percent of a watch’s value to be created in Switzerland, up from the previous 50 percent. For consumers not in the know, this law contains so many loopholes that it is possible to purchase a “Swiss made” watch that may have little content actually originating in Switzerland.

This is not new, but Meylan objects to a modified law that changes almost nothing, yet allows brands who so desire to market their products using this “tightened” label.

“As you may know, since January 1, 2017, the regulations surrounding the Swiss Made label have been modified. Some see it as an improvement, strengthening the requirements; I frankly believe that the Swiss Made label is even weaker today that it was before,” Meylan explained to me just a couple of days ago via e-mail. “We have even decided to remove ‘Swiss Made’ from our dials for all of our new collections because we strongly believe that the Swiss Made label is deceiving as it gives many brands the legitimacy to over-price their products and it promotes a false perception for customers about a Swiss made watch and the reality of what is actually made in Switzerland.”

Just to clarify: many of the world’s best Swiss (and German!) brands do not have “Swiss made” on their dials, but many do. And those who do often bank on the idea that the consumer finds a “Swiss made” watch to be better quality than one made elsewhere.

Meylan’s personal campaign makes sense on several levels, including the fact that he can simultaneously also draw attention to the fact that his watches are more Swiss than most.

Meylan, who comes from a generations-old family of watchmakers, dubs this creative “cheesy” timepiece the Moser Swiss Mad watch, and it is a real testament to Meylan’s sense of humor and self-irony. As is his hashtag #MakeSwissMadeGreatAgain.

For another example of one of Meylan’s novel ideas, see Groundbreaking Or Bunk? Talking Zero Gravity And Pioneer Collection With Edouard Meylan, CEO Of H. Moser & Cie.

For more on Moser’s history and best-known watch, see H. Moser & Cie. Endeavour Perpetual Calendar On The Wrist.

Elizabeth Doerr is the editor-in-chief of Quill & Pad, an online publication that keeps a watch on time.