30 Under 30 Europe 2017: Meet The Top Leaders, Inventors And Entrepreneurs of Tomorrow
30 Under 30 Europe 2017: Meet The Top Leaders, Inventors And Entrepreneurs of Tomorrow
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alexandra Wilson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo: Levon Biss for Forbes) The Old World is once again showing that it holds new innovation with the second annual FORBES 30 Under 30 Europe list. In addition to receiving thousands of online nominations, our reporters combed the Continent for leading innovators in all fields. They then handed over their winnowed short lists to panels of industry-leading judges, who made the final selections. The result: 300 of Europe's boldest young entrepreneurs in ten categories that encompass the arts, finance, technology and more. Some are familiar faces (like Sophie Turner, 20 , of Game of Thrones fame) while others have been quietly building a future where humans can live on Mars ( Karina Marshall-Goebel, 28 ). But their uniting feature is their spark of innovation, leading their fields with the fearlessness that has come to define Millennials. A cross-section of that august group (pictured above) gathered in London last month to talk shop and trade insights. They are a welcome rebuke to anyone unduly bearish on Europe's future. 2017 30 Under 30 Europe: The Standouts The London-born Coel writes and stars in Chewing Gum, a comedy that premiered on U.K. television but has garnered global acclaim after it aired on Netflix. Her role as the pious virgin Tracey Gordon earned her a BAFTA (a British Oscar, essentially) for best female performance in a comedy. She has also acted in theater and on the British television show Aliens. Kazmi raised $100 million to seed Collegiate Capital, a venture firm that focuses on fintech, cybersecurity, energy and gaming; he's Europe's youngest founder and managing partner of a VC fund of that size. He started his first business, a game called U-Design, at age 16; he also now serves as CEO of the Oxford Accelerator, a business incubator hosted by the prestigious university. At 18 Daykin became the youngest person to secure an investment on Dragons' Den-- the U.K.'s version of Shark Tank-- for GripIt, a small device that makes simple the usually maddening act of hanging art and fixtures on plasterboard walls. Three years later his company is valued at $31 million. The company Tabor founded with her friend Maddie Raedts is helping an array of notable brands figure out their European youth-marketing strategy. Through its network of more than 6,000 bloggers, YouTubers and other social-media personalities, IMA gives such clients as Nike and Calvin Klein insight into Europe's young consumers. Capelle founded Singa in 2012 to acclimate refugees to Europe. Though it was founded in France, it has spread to Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and Morocco. Among its initiatives is a startup incubator for local and refugee entrepreneurs that accepts 30 applicants a year; one company it recently graduated was WelcomHere, an online platform whose network helps refugees find homes and jobs in France. An online marketplace for new and pre-owned luxury watches, Chronext (which has landed $18 million in venture funding) makes the experience of buying a high-end timepiece online more streamlined and secure. The son of Russian immigrants to Germany, Man launched his first venture, a clothing retailer, at age 17. Unda abandoned a budding career in investment banking to pursue a more fulfilling one in health care. After earning a Harvard M.B.A., she acquired a 41% stake in Sigesa, a medical-software company founded by her father in the late 1990s, and took over as its CEO. , Inspired by the birth of his son, Yacob invented Cubetto, a wooden robot that teaches children as young as 3 the rudiments of coding--the kids "program" symbols that govern the robot's movement--without increasing screen time. Primo Toys pulled off the largest educational-technology crowdfund in Kickstarter's history, raising nearly $1.6 million from backers in 96 countries. A food-subscription business that sends pre-apportioned ingredients and cooking instructions to consumers' doorsteps weekly, HelloFresh offers quick and healthy meals developed by chefs and nutritionists. Boyes is the company's U.S. CEO, based in New York City for the time being and charged with expanding its American operations.  In addition to his role as chef de cuisine for the two-Michelin-starred ABaC Restaurant & Hotel in Barcelona, Andrés runs his own place, Restaurant Somiatruites, a Catalan eatery just up the road in Igualada. For two years running, he has been named "best of the Spain/Portugal region" by the Europe-wide San Pellegrino Young Chef Competition. Find the full Under 30 Europe Class of 2017 HERE .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Edited by Alexandra Wilson, Kathryn Dill And Steven Bertoni

The Old World is once again showing that it holds new innovation with the second annual FORBES 30 Under 30 Europe list. In addition to receiving thousands of online nominations, our reporters combed the Continent for leading innovators in all fields. They then handed over their winnowed short lists to panels of industry-leading judges, who made the final selections.

The result: 300 of Europe's boldest young entrepreneurs in ten categories that encompass the arts, finance, technology and more. Some are familiar faces (like Sophie Turner, 20, of Game of Thrones fame) while others have been quietly building a future where humans can live on Mars (Karina Marshall-Goebel, 28). But their uniting feature is their spark of innovation, leading their fields with the fearlessness that has come to define Millennials.

A cross-section of that august group (pictured above) gathered in London last month to talk shop and trade insights. They are a welcome rebuke to anyone unduly bearish on Europe's future.

ENTERTAINMENT

MICHAELA COEL, 29, U.K.

Actor and Writer, Chewing Gum

The London-born Coel writes and stars in Chewing Gum, a comedy that premiered on U.K. television but has garnered global acclaim after it aired on Netflix. Her role as the pious virgin Tracey Gordon earned her a BAFTA (a British Oscar, essentially) for best female performance in a comedy. She has also acted in theater and on the British television show Aliens.

FINANCE

Abbas Kazmi, 24, U.K.

Founder, Collegiate Capital

Kazmi raised $100 million to seed Collegiate Capital, a venture firm that focuses on fintech, cybersecurity, energy and gaming; he's Europe's youngest founder and managing partner of a VC fund of that size. He started his first business, a game called U-Design, at age 16; he also now serves as CEO of the Oxford Accelerator, a business incubator hosted by the prestigious university.

INDUSTRY

JORDAN DAYKIN 21, U.K.

Founder, GripIt Fixings

At 18 Daykin became the youngest person to secure an investment on Dragons' Den-- the U.K.'s version of Shark Tank-- for GripIt, a small device that makes simple the usually maddening act of hanging art and fixtures on plasterboard walls. Three years later his company is valued at $31 million.

MEDIA

Emilie Tabor, 28, The Netherlands

Cofounder, IMA (Influencer Marketing Agency)

The company Tabor founded with her friend Maddie Raedts is helping an array of notable brands figure out their European youth-marketing strategy. Through its network of more than 6,000 bloggers, YouTubers and other social-media personalities, IMA gives such clients as Nike and Calvin Klein insight into Europe's young consumers.

LAW & POLICY

Guillame Capelle, 29, France

Cofounder, SINGA

Capelle founded Singa in 2012 to acclimate refugees to Europe. Though it was founded in France, it has spread to Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and Morocco. Among its initiatives is a startup incubator for local and refugee entrepreneurs that accepts 30 applicants a year; one company it recently graduated was WelcomHere, an online platform whose network helps refugees find homes and jobs in France.

RETAIL AND ECOMMERCE

Philipp Man, 25, Germany

Cofounder, CHRONEXT

An online marketplace for new and pre-owned luxury watches, Chronext (which has landed $18 million in venture funding) makes the experience of buying a high-end timepiece online more streamlined and secure. The son of Russian immigrants to Germany, Man launched his first venture, a clothing retailer, at age 17.

SCIENCE AND HEALTHCARE

ARANTXA UNDA 29, SPAIN

CEO, Sigesa

Unda abandoned a budding career in investment banking to pursue a more fulfilling one in health care. After earning a Harvard M.B.A., she acquired a 41% stake in Sigesa, a medical-software company founded by her father in the late 1990s, and took over as its CEO.

SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS

Filippo Yacob, 29, Italy

Cofounder, Primo Toys

Inspired by the birth of his son, Yacob invented Cubetto, a wooden robot that teaches children as young as 3 the rudiments of coding--the kids "program" symbols that govern the robot's movement--without increasing screen time. Primo Toys pulled off the largest educational-technology crowdfund in Kickstarter's history, raising nearly $1.6 million from backers in 96 countries.

TECHNOLOGY

Ed Boyes, 27, U.K.

Cofounder, HelloFresh

A food-subscription business that sends pre-apportioned ingredients and cooking instructions to consumers' doorsteps weekly, HelloFresh offers quick and healthy meals developed by chefs and nutritionists. Boyes is the company's U.S. CEO, based in New York City for the time being and charged with expanding its American operations.

THE ARTS

DAVID ANDRES, 29, Spain

Chef de Cuisine, ABaC Restaurant & Hotel; Owner, Restaurant Somiatruites

In addition to his role as chef de cuisine for the two-Michelin-starred ABaC Restaurant & Hotel in Barcelona, Andrés runs his own place, Restaurant Somiatruites, a Catalan eatery just up the road in Igualada. For two years running, he has been named "best of the Spain/Portugal region" by the Europe-wide San Pellegrino Young Chef Competition.

Find the full Under 30 Europe Class of 2017 HERE.

Follow me on Twitter.