Syfy's 'The Magicians' does 'some g*ddamn magic' at Brooklyn installation
Syfy's 'The Magicians' does 'some g*ddamn magic' at Brooklyn installation
In the first episode of Syfy's , Quentin Coldwater (Jason Ralph) walks into a shadowed corner of his city and ends up in a magical new world. The same is now possible for fans of the show and Lev Grossman's original book series who walk to the sparse corner of Wythe Avenue and 12th street in Brooklyn, where the doors of the William Vale open to reveal a world of magic and mystery. The Hall of Magic features 10 rooms of immersive exhibitions to simulate the world of , and got an exclusive sneak peek at the construction of this epic exhibition. SEE ALSO: Your fan fiction could one day turn into a TV show If you've seen or read , you'll feel a thrill of excitement as you walk up to the black and gold doors of the William Vale. A block before that, there's a giant mural advertising Season 2, which premieres Jan. 25 on Syfy. The Magicians: Hall of Magic Image:  christina anastasio/universal Beyond that, visitors can choose their own adventures; there's a levitation room, a potions room, a musical book shelf and the forest of Fillory — not to mention the starry sky above that blocks out the entire outside world. Cast members Arjun Gupta (Penny) and Summer Bishil (Margot) try their hands at some mind control in the Hall of Magic. Image:  mashable/proma khosla "The Hall of Magic is our way of bringing magic to the masses," said Alexandra Shapiro, EVP of Marketing and Digital for Syfy. "This multi-room, immersive  experience is designed to be a social media utopia. We hope the Hall will give both fans of the series and new viewers the opportunity to transport themselves to a world of fantasy and illusion, channeling their inner Magician." The Hall of Magic is open now through January 29. It is free to the public and currently accepting reservations .   The Magicians: Hall of Magic The levitation room    The Magicians: Hall of Magic In one of Quentin's first scenes at Brakebills University, he gets yelled at pretty badly. It can't have been fun for him -- but it makes for a great display.    The Magicians: Hall of Magic The entrance hallway to the Hall of Magic isn't a setting from 'The Magicians'...it just looks really cool.    The Magicians: Hall of Magic Potions might actually be cool now.    The 'infinity room' is small enough for two people to stick their heads into. Both walls are mirrors, and the result is dazzling.    The Magicians: Hall of Magic Hale Appleman, who plays Elliot, inside the 'infinity room.'    The door outside the William Vale, where the Hall of Magic is hosted.    The Magicians: Hall of Magic A Brakebills classroom recreated for the Hall of Magic. The potions set on the side is a game where visitors can experiment with mind control, and the books on the shelf are musical.    The Brakebills logo appears throughout the experience.    The Magicians: Hall of Magic A sneaky little look at Jane Chatwin, of Fillory.    The forest and final rooms are completed at the Hall of Magic.  BONUS: 6 Close-Up Magic Tricks in 90 Seconds

In the first episode of Syfy's The Magicians, Quentin Coldwater (Jason Ralph) walks into a shadowed corner of his city and ends up in a magical new world. The same is now possible for fans of the show and Lev Grossman's original book series who walk to the sparse corner of Wythe Avenue and 12th street in Brooklyn, where the doors of the William Vale open to reveal a world of magic and mystery.

The Hall of Magic features 10 rooms of immersive exhibitions to simulate the world of The Magicians, and Mashable got an exclusive sneak peek at the construction of this epic exhibition.

SEE ALSO: Your fan fiction could one day turn into a TV show

If you've seen or read The Magicians, you'll feel a thrill of excitement as you walk up to the black and gold doors of the William Vale. A block before that, there's a giant mural advertising Season 2, which premieres Jan. 25 on Syfy.

The Magicians: Hall of Magic Image: christina anastasio/universal

Beyond that, visitors can choose their own adventures; there's a levitation room, a potions room, a musical book shelf and the forest of Fillory — not to mention the starry sky above that blocks out the entire outside world.

Cast members Arjun Gupta (Penny) and Summer Bishil (Margot) try their hands at some mind control in the Hall of Magic. Image: mashable/proma khosla

"The Hall of Magic is our way of bringing magic to the masses," said Alexandra Shapiro, EVP of Marketing and Digital for Syfy. "This multi-room, immersive experience is designed to be a social media utopia. We hope the Hall will give both fans of the series and new viewers the opportunity to transport themselves to a world of fantasy and illusion, channeling their inner Magician."

The Hall of Magic is open now through January 29. It is free to the public and currently accepting reservations.

Hall of Magic