Map shows areas affected if a nuclear bomb dropped
Interactive map shows areas affected if a nuclear bomb dropped


The image of the atomic bomb and accompanying devastation in Hiroshima is seared into many people's minds.

Now a terrifying interactive map lets you see what the terrible effects of nuclear fallout might look it if a similar bomb was to be dropped on your location.

The creator of the map, called WouldISurviveANuke.com, says that it is designed to show that 'there really is no surviving a nuclear war.'

The interactive map has several options that users can choose from, including the location, the type of weapon of mass destruction used, and the number of cities affected.

The type of destruction ranges from a 'dinosaur ending meteor' to a 'Fatman' 18 kiloton nuclear bomb.

When testing the map using the MailOnline office as a location, it was found that a Peacekeeper 350 kiloton nuclear bomb in London would result in second degree burns.

When testing the map using the MailOnline office as a location, it was found that a Peacekeeper 350 kiloton nuclear bomb in London would result in second degree burns

But a Tsar Bomba 50 megaton nuclear bomb in London would result in near certain death.

And if a dinosaur-ending meteor was to hit London, the whole of the UK, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and most of France would die.

Speaking to indy100, Britton Matthews, the Seattle-based creator of the interactive map said: 'WouldISurviveANuke.com actually started as a joke.

The map suggests that if a Tsar Bomba 50 megaton nuclear bomb was dropped in London, it would result in death for most of the capital

If a dinosaur-ending meteor was to hit London, the whole of the UK, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and most of France would die.

'I developed it by myself over a weekend five years ago.

'In addition to telling you how bad your burns will be in the nuclear fall out, the website also throws up helpful tips in the form of gallows humour.'

But while Mr Matthews started the website as a joke, he added that the point of the map was to prove that 'there really is no surviving a nuclear war.'

If an 18 kiloton nuclear bomb was dropped in New York, the damage would spread all the way across to Jersey City and over to much of Brooklyn

According to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, nine countries together possess around 15,000 nuclear weapons. This image shows the detonation of a nuclear bomb at a test site, with the distinctive mushroom cloud visible

Cities around the world, including Sydney (pictured left) and Los Angeles (pictured right) would be wiped out if a nuclear bomb was dropped

According to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, nine countries together possess around 15,000 nuclear weapons.

The US and Russia maintain roughly 1,800 of their nuclear weapons on high-alert status – ready to be launched within minutes of a warning.

Most are many times more powerful than the atomic bombs dropped on Japan in 1945.

A single nuclear warhead, if detonated on a large city, could kill millions of people, with the effects persisting for decades.

Russia and the US are thought to possess 93 per cent of the world's nuclear arsenal, with Europe potentially caught in the crossfire. This photograph shows the terrible effects of atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, on 6 August, 1945