Dalai Lama expresses hope for Trump-Putin relationship
Dalai Lama expresses hope for Trump-Putin relationship
Tweet     Stumble     Email   The Dalai Lama said he hopes that President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will work together for global peace. The exiled spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists said the world needed leaders with compassion. He made the remarks Saturday at a program in New Delhi organized by the women’s chapter of an industry group, according to the press statement. The Dalai Lama: "The Book of Joy" We hear a lot about "joy to the world" this time of year. Seth Doane talks with the Dalai Lama, a man for whom the pursuit of happiness is just p... He said the world is moving toward peace and non-violence, and he hopes Trump and Putin will come closer and work toward creating global peace. The Dalai Lama had said in Mongolia in November that he had “no worries” about Trump’s election as U.S. president and looked forward to meeting him after he took office. Trump was inaugurated Friday. The Dalai Lama has met former U.S. presidents, including four meetings with Barack Obama. Such meetings anger Beijing, which accuses the Tibetan leader of trying to split Tibet from China. The Dalai Lama says he simply wants a higher degree of autonomy under Chinese rule. The Dalai Lama has been based in India’s northern hill town of Dharmsala since fleeing Tibet during an abortive uprising against Chinese rule in 1959.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

NEW DELHI - The Dalai Lama said he hopes that President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will work together for global peace.

The exiled spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists said the world needed leaders with compassion. He made the remarks Saturday at a program in New Delhi organized by the women’s chapter of an industry group, according to the press statement.

He said the world is moving toward peace and non-violence, and he hopes Trump and Putin will come closer and work toward creating global peace.

The Dalai Lama had said in Mongolia in November that he had “no worries” about Trump’s election as U.S. president and looked forward to meeting him after he took office. Trump was inaugurated Friday.

The Dalai Lama has met former U.S. presidents, including four meetings with Barack Obama. Such meetings anger Beijing, which accuses the Tibetan leader of trying to split Tibet from China. The Dalai Lama says he simply wants a higher degree of autonomy under Chinese rule.

The Dalai Lama has been based in India’s northern hill town of Dharmsala since fleeing Tibet during an abortive uprising against Chinese rule in 1959.