Mona Lisa Gives A Perfect Reply To Karan Johar's Remark On Her Marriage Being A 'Fake'
Mona Lisa Gives A Perfect Reply To Karan Johar's Remark On Her Marriage Being A 'Fake'
Mona Lisa Gives A Perfect Reply To Karan Johar's Remark On Her Marriage Being A 'Fake' It won’t be wrong to say that filmmaker Karan Johar raises the entertainment quotient wherever he goes. Be it awards shows, TV shows or even private parties, the man can be called the life of a party without a doubt. Now, we all trip on his Koffee With Karan episodes, don’t we? Every Monday morning begins with the discussions of the Sunday episode of the Ae Dil Hai Mushkil filmmaker’s chat show. KJo entertained us all yet again when he made an appearance on Bigg Boss 10’s Weekend Ka Vaar episode with his Jhalak Dikhla Ja squad last night. He along with Farah Khan, Jacqueline Fernandez and Ganesh Hegde were asked to reveal their favourite housemates. Amidst all this, Karan showed his bitchy yet hilarious side when Mona Lisa’s name came up. From taking a dig at her excessive crying, ‘Tacky’ outfits to her marriage inside the house, Karan had an opinion about everything. The final straw was when Karan Johar took a nasty dig on her wedding by saying that he would like to sign her for his film as that contract will definitely last longer than her wedding. Ouch! Interestingly, just after the team’s exit, Salman announced the name of the contestant who was to be evicted. It just so happened that the evicted contestant was none other than Mona Lisa herself. It’s kind of obvious here, that she must have heard about KJo comments. According to a report carried in DNA, the actress took it all in a positive way and said, "I haven't seen the show, but if he has said that I am happy, because it means the deal will last for years and years. I know that my marriage will be long lasting." When she was further asked about money being offered to her to get married on the show, she said,

It won’t be wrong to say that filmmaker Karan Johar raises the entertainment quotient wherever he goes. Be it awards shows, TV shows or even private parties, the man can be called the life of a party without a doubt.

Now, we all trip on his Koffee With Karan episodes, don’t we? Every Monday morning begins with the discussions of the Sunday episode of the Ae Dil Hai Mushkil filmmaker’s chat show.

KJo entertained us all yet again when he made an appearance on Bigg Boss 10’s Weekend Ka Vaar episode with his Jhalak Dikhla Ja squad last night.

DNA

He along with Farah Khan, Jacqueline Fernandez and Ganesh Hegde were asked to reveal their favourite housemates. Amidst all this, Karan showed his bitchy yet hilarious side when Mona Lisa’s name came up. From taking a dig at her excessive crying, ‘Tacky’ outfits to her marriage inside the house, Karan had an opinion about everything.

The final straw was when Karan Johar took a nasty dig on her wedding by saying that he would like to sign her for his film as that contract will definitely last longer than her wedding. Ouch!

indian express

Interestingly, just after the team’s exit, Salman announced the name of the contestant who was to be evicted. It just so happened that the evicted contestant was none other than Mona Lisa herself.

colors

It’s kind of obvious here, that she must have heard about KJo comments. According to a report carried in DNA, the actress took it all in a positive way and said, "I haven't seen the show, but if he has said that I am happy, because it means the deal will last for years and years. I know that my marriage will be long lasting."

When she was further asked about money being offered to her to get married on the show, she said,

twitter

"It's sad that people think like that. It's the best day of my life, why should I take money for that. People making fun like this is not good. Vikrant and I know each other for eight years and were planning to get married anyway. He decided everything in consultation with my parents and I am very happy to have got married on TV, with the whole country witnessing it."