The Dallas Stars brilliantly troll Donald Trump
The Dallas Stars brilliantly troll Donald Trump
Donald Trump is really, really, really obsessed with numbers, especially those that reflect his popularity, sending members of his staff into the world armed with lies and " alternative facts " to claim the attendance at his inauguration on Friday was HYUGE. SEE ALSO: Who pulled the bigger crowd: Trump or Obama? Unfortunately for Trump, every indication is that, no matter what he says, there were far fewer people there than the president would like to think and the NHL's Dallas Stars were more than happy to rip on him for it. On Saturday night, just hours after Trump claimed during a speech at the CIA that 1.5 million people had attended his inauguration, the Stars posted the attendance for their game against the Washington Capitals as — you guessed it — 1.5 million. Stars Jumbotron with a topical joke. pic.twitter.com/9vsmTG1Agj — Kate Morrison (@unlikelyfanatic) January 22, 2017 In actuality, the attendance at the Stars-Caps game was closer to 18,532, which is still significantly less than at Trump's inauguration but the point's made. As noted , the president is just the latest target of the Stars' jumbotron, whose past victims include Justin Bieber and the entire city of Winnipeg . BONUS: Trump's 2017 vs Obama's 2009: A brutal inaugural concert comparison

Donald Trump is really, really, really obsessed with numbers, especially those that reflect his popularity, sending members of his staff into the world armed with lies and "alternative facts" to claim the attendance at his inauguration on Friday was HYUGE.

Unfortunately for Trump, every indication is that, no matter what he says, there were far fewer people there than the president would like to think and the NHL's Dallas Stars were more than happy to rip on him for it.

On Saturday night, just hours after Trump claimed during a speech at the CIA that 1.5 million people had attended his inauguration, the Stars posted the attendance for their game against the Washington Capitals as — you guessed it — 1.5 million.

Stars Jumbotron with a topical joke. pic.twitter.com/9vsmTG1Agj — Kate Morrison (@unlikelyfanatic) January 22, 2017

In actuality, the attendance at the Stars-Caps game was closer to 18,532, which is still significantly less than at Trump's inauguration but the point's made.

As Puck Daddy noted, the president is just the latest target of the Stars' jumbotron, whose past victims include Justin Bieber and the entire city of Winnipeg.