Transgender Does Whatever It Took To Save A Woman And 2 Sons Trying To Commit Suicide, But Failed
Transgender Does Whatever It Took To Save A Woman And 2 Sons Trying To Commit Suicide
Transgender Does Whatever It Took To Save A Woman And 2 Sons Trying To Commit Suicide, But Failed A 20-year-old transgender made unsuccessful attempts to save a 30-year-old woman and her two sons from committing suicide under a running train in Hyderabad on Saturday. Nakka Gouramma (30) jumped under a running train along with her sons Nagaraju (7) and Sai Teja (5) near Malkajgirl railway station. Locals saw the three lying dead around 11 on Saturday morning. Differences with her daily wager husband Bandalaih is said to be the reason for her extreme step. Transgender Bonam Sai, who begs in the surroundings of Secunderabad and Malkajgiri, found Gouramma in a depressed state and approached her. But, Gouramma refused to entertain her. "Having seen some cases of this kind earlier, I understood her state of mind. She (Gouramma) was in tears and asked me to leave her alone. I stayed there for some time waiting to talk to her. In the meantime, I noticed the school identity cards hanging around the necks of the two boys. I took down the mobile number written on both the cards. But, the boys became suspicious that I would harm their mother. They picked up chips from the tracks and threw at me. I left the place for my own protection," Sai told Mirror. Sai called the number to alert. It was Gouramma's landlady who answered the call. "She easily recognized when I told her the names of the two boys. I conveyed the message to her", Sai said. Sai also called Viswa Bharati School (Manikonda area on the city outskirts) land line number and informed that two kids by name Nagaraju and Sai Taje were present on the railway track with a woman. "Somebody answered my call and confirmed that the two boys were missing since Friday afternoon. The person assured me that the school would work on my information," Sai said. The landlady wasted no time to call Gouramma's brother Sekhar, a cab driver in the city. "I tried calling Sai's number but, it was switched off. I and my brother Swamy immediately rushed to Malkajgirl where police said I should lodge a complaint in my area, Narsingi. When we went to Narsingi, the police said since our sister and her sons were found at railway station, I should complain to the railway police for immediate result. By the time we went to the station, the news that my sister and her kids died under a running train reached us", cried Sekhar. Sai is a known name, particularly among Safilguda police. "We could reach him only after the tragedy had happened. Had there been immediate response, our sister and her sons could have been rescued", Sekhar said. Secunderabad government railway police inspector A Anjaneyulu, who is investigating the case, said he was not aware of the alert by Sai. The police have handed over the three bodies to their family after postmortem at Gandhi General Hospital.

A 20-year-old transgender made unsuccessful attempts to save a 30-year-old woman and her two sons from committing suicide under a running train in Hyderabad on Saturday.

Nakka Gouramma (30) jumped under a running train along with her sons Nagaraju (7) and Sai Teja (5) near Malkajgirl railway station. Locals saw the three lying dead around 11 on Saturday morning. Differences with her daily wager husband Bandalaih is said to be the reason for her extreme step.

mumbaimirror

Transgender Bonam Sai, who begs in the surroundings of Secunderabad and Malkajgiri, found Gouramma in a depressed state and approached her. But, Gouramma refused to entertain her. "Having seen some cases of this kind earlier, I understood her state of mind. She (Gouramma) was in tears and asked me to leave her alone. I stayed there for some time waiting to talk to her. In the meantime, I noticed the school identity cards hanging around the necks of the two boys. I took down the mobile number written on both the cards. But, the boys became suspicious that I would harm their mother. They picked up chips from the tracks and threw at me. I left the place for my own protection," Sai told Mirror.

Sai called the number to alert. It was Gouramma's landlady who answered the call. "She easily recognized when I told her the names of the two boys. I conveyed the message to her", Sai said. Sai also called Viswa Bharati School (Manikonda area on the city outskirts) land line number and informed that two kids by name Nagaraju and Sai Taje were present on the railway track with a woman.

"Somebody answered my call and confirmed that the two boys were missing since Friday afternoon. The person assured me that the school would work on my information," Sai said.

BCCL/Representational Image

The landlady wasted no time to call Gouramma's brother Sekhar, a cab driver in the city. "I tried calling Sai's number but, it was switched off. I and my brother Swamy immediately rushed to Malkajgirl where police said I should lodge a complaint in my area, Narsingi. When we went to Narsingi, the police said since our sister and her sons were found at railway station, I should complain to the railway police for immediate result. By the time we went to the station, the news that my sister and her kids died under a running train reached us", cried Sekhar.

Sai is a known name, particularly among Safilguda police. "We could reach him only after the tragedy had happened. Had there been immediate response, our sister and her sons could have been rescued", Sekhar said.

Secunderabad government railway police inspector A Anjaneyulu, who is investigating the case, said he was not aware of the alert by Sai. The police have handed over the three bodies to their family after postmortem at Gandhi General Hospital.

Originally Published in Mumbaimirror