Hundreds of Thousands of Demonstrators Attend Women’s March on Washington
Hundreds of Thousands of Demonstrators Attend Women’s March on Washington
Biography Ben Kesling @bkesling Google+ ben.kesling@wsj.com Biography Felicia Schwartz @felschwartz felicia.schwartz@wsj.com Biography Byron Tau @ByronTau byron.tau@wsj.com WASHINGTON—Hundreds of thousands of people protesting Donald Trump’s presidency swarmed events in U.S. cities and around the world in a rebuke to an incoming president unlike any seen in modern times. In the nation’s capital, marchers jammed city streets and filled the large swath of parkland between the U.S. Capitol and the White House known as the National Mall. Crowds of women and men gathered in support of women’s rights, as well as the rights of immigrants and minority groups, and to push back against Mr. Trump’s... Most Popular Videos  Super Bowl Ad: 84 Lumber  Super Bowl Ad: Coke  Brady Leads Patriots to Historic Super Bowl Victory   Super Bowl Ad: Mercedes    Super Bowl Ad: Lexus  Most Popular Articles      Few Recall Gorsuch’s Volunteer Work at Harvard        Opinion: Sharp Left Turn Ahead—Beware        Opinion: A Libel Suit Threatens Catastrophe for the Climate of Public Debate        Opposition Mounts for Education Nominee Betsy DeVos        84 Lumber Super Bowl Campaign Shows Border Wall With a Big Door

Thousands of people march along Seventh Street in Washington, D.C., during the Women’s March on Washington on Saturday. Hundreds of thousands of people flooded U.S. cities to protest for women’s rights and mark President Donald Trump’s first full day in office. Photo: David Cole for The Wall Street Journal

WASHINGTON—Hundreds of thousands of people protesting Donald Trump’s presidency swarmed events in U.S. cities and around the world in a rebuke to an incoming president unlike any seen in modern times. In the nation’s capital, marchers jammed city streets and filled the large swath of parkland between the U.S. Capitol and the White House known as the National Mall.

Crowds of women and men gathered in support of women’s rights, as well as the rights of immigrants and minority groups, and to push back against Mr. Trump’s...