New York Knicks' Season Perfectly Summed Up by Moment Between Melo and a Fan
New York Knicks' Season Perfectly Summed Up by Moment Between Melo and a Fan
If the New York Knicks have been anything this season, they have been entertaining. Maybe it hasn't been for all the right reasons, but Carmelo Anthony and his teammates have given fans plenty to talk about over the first half of the season. From Derrick Rose calling the squad a “superteam” to Phil Jackson sending subliminal shots to his team’s superstar, the Knicks have plenty of drama. But a particular moment in their most recent loss pretty much summed up how the team is looking at things. The Knicks' star slumped to the scorer’s table and his coach came over to console him with a hug. One fan even gave him a quick shoulder massage, while a young supporter in a Carmelo jersey patted his back and offered words of encouragement. His teammates also came over and dapped him up before he headed to the locker room. Anthony misses the game winner. Knick fan gives him a quick massage. pic.twitter.com/

If the New York Knicks have been anything this season, they have been entertaining. Maybe it hasn't been for all the right reasons, but Carmelo Anthony and his teammates have given fans plenty to talk about over the first half of the season. From Derrick Rose calling the squad a “superteam” to Phil Jackson sending subliminal shots to his team’s superstar, the Knicks have plenty of drama. But a particular moment in their most recent loss pretty much summed up how the team is looking at things.

Late in Saturday's game against the Phoenix Suns, the Knicks were down by two, but had the chance to win the game with a three-pointer. Melo tried to deliver in the clutch, but the Phoenix Suns ended up winning 107-105. Things didn’t go quite as planned and Anthony looked frustrated after his attempt missed his mark.

The Knicks' star slumped to the scorer’s table and his coach came over to console him with a hug. One fan even gave him a quick shoulder massage, while a young supporter in a Carmelo jersey patted his back and offered words of encouragement. His teammates also came over and dapped him up before he headed to the locker room.

Carmelo Anthony misses the game winner. Knick fan gives him a quick massage. pic.twitter.com/es2fANcRlE — ⓂarcusD2.0 ( @_MarcusD2_ ) January 22, 2017

The entire scene perfectly captures where this team is at. Melo wants to stay, but things are hard right now and it’s going to take a minute to get things straightened out. At least the fans are rallying behind their star, and that has to count for something.