Saturday Night Live: Aziz Ansari explains the rise of the 'lowercase kkk' in scorching monologue
Saturday Night Live: Aziz Ansari explains the rise of the 'lowercase kkk' in scorching monologue
Popular videos    Melissa McCarthy dropped in on SNL as Sean Spicer      Protesters 'won't be silenced' as 40,000 march against Trump in London      Trump rolls back regulation because his ‘friends’ can’t borrow money      Trump curbs Wall Street regulations so his friends can borrow money   Aziz Ansari had a pretty tough job ahead of him on , delivering the opening monologue of the very first show since Donald Trump took the presidency. What he delivered, however, was exactly what we needed to hear: a message that could unite, could make us laugh, and give us hope all at the same time. Ansari chose not to attack Trump head-on, instead urging him to deliver a definitive statement against what he termed the 'lowercase kkk', a product of the normalisation of racism and bigotry under Trump's banner of leadership. Read more Shia LaBeouf launches four year anti-Trump art project Donald Trump didn't lie in his latest tweet, he just twisted the facts Donald Trump's inauguration speech had strong similarities to Bane "I think Trump should make a speech," Ansari stated. "A real speech denouncing the 'lowercase kkk'. Don't tweet about me being lame, or the show being shame. Write a speech, a real speech. Because these people are out there, and it's pissing a lot of people off. And I think you could make a difference." Ansari then went on to point out that presidents have made these kinds of speeches in the past, visibly reducing the levels of hate crimes, citing George W. Bush's speech after 9/11 as a particular example. "It's not about politics, it's about basic human decency, and remembering why the country was founded in the first place," he added. "If you're excited about Trump, great. He's president, let's hope he does a great job," Ansari concluded with. "If you're scared about Trump and you're very worried, you're going to be OK, too. Because, if you look at our country's history, change doesn't come from presidents. Change comes from large groups of angry people." "And if day one is any indication, you are part of the largest group of angry people I have ever seen. Good luck to you." In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump               In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump    London   An image of President Donald Trump is seen on a placard during the Women's March in London, England   Getty     Sydney   A view of the skywriting word reading 'Trump' as thousands rally in support of equal rights in Sydney, New South Wales   EPA     Rome   People shout and hold signs during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome   Getty Images     London   A protester holds a placard during the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Marseille   A placard ready 'Pussy grabs back' is attached to the handle bar of a bike during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Bangkok   A young Thai girl holds a "women's rights are human rights" sign at Roadhouse BBQ restaurant where many of the Bangkok Womens March participants gathered in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     Bangkok   A Thai woman takes a photo of a "hate is not great" sign at the women's solidarity gathering in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     Bangkok   American expats and travellers gather with the international community in Bangkok at the Roadhouse BBQ restaurant to stand in solidarity in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     London   Protetesters gather outside The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Marseille   Women's March at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Marseille   Protestors hold placards reading 'My body my choice, my vote my voice' during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Rome   A person holds a sign during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome   Getty Images     Kolkata   Activist Sarah Annay Williamson holds a placard and shouts slogan during the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India   AP     Kolkata   Activists participate in the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India   AP     London   A Women's March placards are rested on a bench outside the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     London   A women carries her placard ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Manila   Women protesters shout slogans while displaying placards during a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President Donald Trump, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Melbourne   Protesters take part in the Melbourne rally to protest against the Trump Inauguration in Melbourne, Australia   Getty Images     Macau   Protesters take part in the Women's March rally in Macau   Getty Images     Melbourne   Womens march on Melbourne protestors marching during a rally where rights groups marched in solidarity with Americans to speak out against misogyny, bigotry and hatred   Rex     Macau   Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau   Getty Images     Macau   Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau, Macau. The Women's March originated in Washington DC but soon spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights   Getty Images     Manila   A mother carries her son as they join a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States in suburban Quezon city northeast of Manila, Philippines   AP     Sydney   An infant is held up at a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydney   A woman attends a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydney   A woman expresses her Anti-Trump views in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydeney   Protesters demonstrate against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia.  The marches in Australia were organised to show solidarity with those marching on Washington DC and around the world in defense of women's rights and human rights   Getty     London   Protesters march from The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square towards Trafalgar Square during the Women's March in London, England   Getty     London   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters  Ansari's opening was also a landmark in 's own history, as the comedian was the first person of South Asian descent to take on hosting duties. More about: Saturday Night Live Aziz Ansari Comments

Aziz Ansari had a pretty tough job ahead of him on Saturday Night Live, delivering the opening monologue of the very first show since Donald Trump took the presidency.

What he delivered, however, was exactly what we needed to hear: a message that could unite, could make us laugh, and give us hope all at the same time.

Ansari chose not to attack Trump head-on, instead urging him to deliver a definitive statement against what he termed the 'lowercase kkk', a product of the normalisation of racism and bigotry under Trump's banner of leadership.

"I think Trump should make a speech," Ansari stated. "A real speech denouncing the 'lowercase kkk'. Don't tweet about me being lame, or the show being shame. Write a speech, a real speech. Because these people are out there, and it's pissing a lot of people off. And I think you could make a difference."

Ansari then went on to point out that presidents have made these kinds of speeches in the past, visibly reducing the levels of hate crimes, citing George W. Bush's speech after 9/11 as a particular example. "It's not about politics, it's about basic human decency, and remembering why the country was founded in the first place," he added.



"If you're excited about Trump, great. He's president, let's hope he does a great job," Ansari concluded with. "If you're scared about Trump and you're very worried, you're going to be OK, too. Because, if you look at our country's history, change doesn't come from presidents. Change comes from large groups of angry people."

"And if day one is any indication, you are part of the largest group of angry people I have ever seen. Good luck to you."

In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump







32 show all In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump





























































1/32 London An image of President Donald Trump is seen on a placard during the Women's March in London, England Getty

2/32 Sydney A view of the skywriting word reading 'Trump' as thousands rally in support of equal rights in Sydney, New South Wales EPA

3/32 Rome People shout and hold signs during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome Getty Images

4/32 London A protester holds a placard during the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

5/32 Marseille A placard ready 'Pussy grabs back' is attached to the handle bar of a bike during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

6/32 Bangkok A young Thai girl holds a "women's rights are human rights" sign at Roadhouse BBQ restaurant where many of the Bangkok Womens March participants gathered in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

7/32 Bangkok A Thai woman takes a photo of a "hate is not great" sign at the women's solidarity gathering in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

8/32 Bangkok American expats and travellers gather with the international community in Bangkok at the Roadhouse BBQ restaurant to stand in solidarity in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

9/32 London Protetesters gather outside The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

10/32 Marseille Women's March at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

11/32 Marseille Protestors hold placards reading 'My body my choice, my vote my voice' during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

12/32 Rome A person holds a sign during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome Getty Images

13/32 Kolkata Activist Sarah Annay Williamson holds a placard and shouts slogan during the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India AP

14/32 Kolkata Activists participate in the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India AP

15/32 London A Women's March placards are rested on a bench outside the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

16/32 London A women carries her placard ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

17/32 Manila Women protesters shout slogans while displaying placards during a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President Donald Trump, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines AP

18/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

19/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

20/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

21/32 Melbourne Protesters take part in the Melbourne rally to protest against the Trump Inauguration in Melbourne, Australia Getty Images

22/32 Macau Protesters take part in the Women's March rally in Macau Getty Images

23/32 Melbourne Womens march on Melbourne protestors marching during a rally where rights groups marched in solidarity with Americans to speak out against misogyny, bigotry and hatred Rex

24/32 Macau Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau Getty Images

25/32 Macau Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau, Macau. The Women's March originated in Washington DC but soon spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights Getty Images

26/32 Manila A mother carries her son as they join a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States in suburban Quezon city northeast of Manila, Philippines AP

27/32 Sydney An infant is held up at a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

28/32 Sydney A woman attends a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

29/32 Sydney A woman expresses her Anti-Trump views in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

30/32 Sydeney Protesters demonstrate against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia. The marches in Australia were organised to show solidarity with those marching on Washington DC and around the world in defense of women's rights and human rights Getty

31/32 London Protesters march from The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square towards Trafalgar Square during the Women's March in London, England Getty

32/32 London Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters



Ansari's opening was also a landmark in Saturday Night Live's own history, as the comedian was the first person of South Asian descent to take on hosting duties.