Watch Shirtless Vladimir Putin Replace Alec Baldwin's Trump in Post-Inauguration 'SNL' Opening
Watch Shirtless Vladimir Putin Replace Alec Baldwin's Trump in Post-Inauguration 'SNL' Opening 
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Watch Shirtless Vladimir Putin Replace Alec Baldwin's Trump in Post-Inauguration 'SNL' Opening  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After weeks of reliable cameos, the biggest shock of 's first episode of the President Trump administration was Alec Baldwin's cold-open absence. The pre-monologue sketch featured Beck Bennett in his recurring role as shirtless Vladimir Putin, who congratulated Trump on the turnout at his inauguration... before realizing he was looking at a photo of the Women's March in Washington, D.C. He reminded Americans how they can profit from a new relationship with Russia and their main exports: "Oil, track suits, and scary pornography." And it seemed like Baldwin would appear as Donald Trump any minute -- but no. Where was Alec Baldwin on this most-important cold open?  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Beck Bennett as Russian President Vladimir Putin during the "Vladimir Putin Cold Open" sketch on Saturday Night Live on Jan. 21, 2017.

After weeks of reliable cameos, the biggest shock of Saturday Night Live's first episode of the President Trump administration was Alec Baldwin's cold-open absence.

The pre-monologue sketch featured Beck Bennett in his recurring role as shirtless Vladimir Putin, who congratulated Trump on the turnout at his inauguration... before realizing he was looking at a photo of the Women's March in Washington, D.C.

He reminded Americans how they can profit from a new relationship with Russia and their main exports: "Oil, track suits, and scary pornography."

And it seemed like Baldwin would appear as Donald Trump any minute -- but no. Where was Alec Baldwin on this most-important SNL cold open?