Pittsburgh Steelers woken up at 3 a.m. by false fire alarm in Boston hotel
Pittsburgh Steelers woken up at 3 a.m. by false fire alarm in Boston hotel
Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger (7) looks to pass during the second half of an NFL football game against the Miami Dolphins, Sunday, Oct. 16, 2016, in Miami Gardens, Fla.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Jan 22, 2017 9:49 AM EST The Pittsburgh Steelers may not be facing off against the New England Patriots on a full night of sleep. CBS Pittsburgh reports that fire alarms started going off around 3 a.m. Sunday at the Boston hotel where the Steelers and many fans are staying ahead of their AFC Championship matchup. Steelers-Patriots key matchups; how to watch the AFC Championship Packers-Falcons: Atlanta should be wary of Aaron Rodgers Full NFL coverage at CBSSports.com Firefighters quickly arrived on the scene to check things out as guests waited outside. Hotel personnel said the entire hotel had to be evacuated, but it ended up being a false alarm. Alarms were going off for about half an hour before guests were allowed to return to their rooms. CBS Boston reports a 25-year-old Boston man was arrested for allegedly pulling the fire alarm. Dennis Harrison, of East Boston, was charged with disorderly conduct, disturbing the peace, and setting off a false fire alarm. The game kicks off at the Gillette Stadium in Massachusetts at 6:40 p.m. Floors being evacuated at Boston hotel where Steelers and fans are staying @CBSPittsburgh  pic.twitter.com/M7lQZ7fxn9 Visiting NFL teams occasionally experience middle-of-the-night false alarms in other teams’ cities, especially ahead of key playoff games. ESPN reports the Patriots saw two middle-of-the-night false fire alarms pulled on them just ahead of their Super Bowl XLIX matchup against the Seattle Seahawks in Glendale, Arizona. The Patriots prevailed regardless, 28-24.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

BOSTON — The Pittsburgh Steelers may not be facing off against the New England Patriots on a full night of sleep.

CBS Pittsburgh reports that fire alarms started going off around 3 a.m. Sunday at the Boston hotel where the Steelers and many fans are staying ahead of their AFC Championship matchup.

Firefighters quickly arrived on the scene to check things out as guests waited outside.

Hotel personnel said the entire hotel had to be evacuated, but it ended up being a false alarm.

Alarms were going off for about half an hour before guests were allowed to return to their rooms.

CBS Boston reports a 25-year-old Boston man was arrested for allegedly pulling the fire alarm. Dennis Harrison, of East Boston, was charged with disorderly conduct, disturbing the peace, and setting off a false fire alarm.

The game kicks off at the Gillette Stadium in Massachusetts at 6:40 p.m.

Floors being evacuated at Boston hotel where Steelers and fans are staying @CBSPittsburgh pic.twitter.com/M7lQZ7fxn9 — Rich Walsh KDKA (@RichieWalsh) January 22, 2017

Visiting NFL teams occasionally experience middle-of-the-night false alarms in other teams’ cities, especially ahead of key playoff games.

ESPN reports the Patriots saw two middle-of-the-night false fire alarms pulled on them just ahead of their Super Bowl XLIX matchup against the Seattle Seahawks in Glendale, Arizona. The Patriots prevailed regardless, 28-24.