United Airlines lifts ground stop for domestic flights
United Airlines lifts ground stop for domestic flights
The United Airlines terminal is viewed at Newark Liberty Airport on July 8, 2015 in Newark, New Jersey.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Jan 22, 2017 9:22 PM EST United Airlines said on Sunday that a ground stop issued earlier in the day has been lifted. “We’re working to get flights on their way,” the airline said. “We apologize for the inconvenience to our customers” UPDATE: The ground stop has been lifted. We’re working to get flights on their way. We apologize for the inconvenience to our customers. Earlier on Sunday, United Airlines said that it “issued a ground stop for all domestic mainline flights due to an IT issue.” It said it was working “as quickly as possible” to resolve the issue and get customers to their final destinations, CBS News correspondent Kris Van Cleave reported. Sources told CBS News that the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System went down. The system is used for air-to-ground communications. A ground stop is in place for domestic flights due to an IT issue. We’re working on a resolution. We apologize for the inconvenience.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

United Airlines said on Sunday that a ground stop issued earlier in the day has been lifted.

“We’re working to get flights on their way,” the airline said. “We apologize for the inconvenience to our customers”

UPDATE: The ground stop has been lifted. We’re working to get flights on their way. We apologize for the inconvenience to our customers. — United (@united) January 23, 2017

Earlier on Sunday, United Airlines said that it “issued a ground stop for all domestic mainline flights due to an IT issue.”

It said it was working “as quickly as possible” to resolve the issue and get customers to their final destinations, CBS News correspondent Kris Van Cleave reported.

Sources told CBS News that the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System went down. The system is used for air-to-ground communications.