Maureen Braddy, Allan Whyte disappearance: $1 million reward offered in case of missing Bendigo teenagers



Maureen Braddy, Allan Whyte disappearance: $1 million reward offered in case of missing Bendigo teenagers

Updated

A $1 million reward is being offered to help solve the suspicious disappearance of Bendigo teenagers Maureen Braddy and Allan Whyte almost 50 years ago.

The pair aged 16 and 17 were last seen leaving a dance in Bendigo on Mundy Street in November 1968.

The families of the pair had been pushing for a $1 million reward after an inconclusive coronial finding three years ago.

Victoria's Chief Commissioner of Police is making that money available if it leads to the conviction of those responsible or the person responsible for the abduction and murder.

The reward is one of 16 $1 million rewards currently being offered by Victoria Police.

Police hope the reward will lead to someone with crucial information or direct knowledge about the disappearance to come forward.

Detective Inspector Stephen Dennis said he believed someone within the Bendigo community held the key to solving this case.

"This disappearance has been extremely devastating to both families who have never given up hope," Inspector Dennis said.

The families of the two teenagers were disappointed with the coronial finding in 2014.

Despite an extensive police investigation involving the Missing Persons Squad, the pair were never found.

Families welcome $1 million reward

The families of the two Bendigo teenagers have expressed relief a $1 million reward has been offered..

Maureen Braddy's sister Lyn Ireland said she hoped to get some answers in her lifetime as to what happened to both of them.

"I couldn't be happier and I speak for the whole family — it's amazing. It's about time," she said.

"There are times you think what the hell is going on, is anything being done," she said of the investigation.

"Every day there is always a question in your head of what's happening," Ms Ireland said.

She said looking in the mirror, often she was reminded of Maureen because the pair looked alike.

"She was only 16, she had no life," she said.

Allan Whyte's brother, Kevin Whyte, described his sibling as a happy-go-lucky boy.

"We used to go fishing and camping," he said.

He said on the night they disappeared, he saw Allan Whyte who told him he was taking Maureen home.

"I sit there and look at his photo every night nearly," he said.

"It sticks in your mind," Mr Whyte said.

Conflicting theories at inquest

The circumstances around the disappearance of the teens has gripped the Bendigo community for decades.

There have been several conspiracy theories about the pair.

But Deputy State Coroner Iain West officially found it was likely the teens met with foul play the night they disappeared.

During the inquest, witnesses recounted seeing bodies being placed into a well at the former home of the Braddy family.

But the police investigation did not support this theory.

Detectives determined the information was not strong enough to warrant a search and the cost would be too great.

Some family members have long said they were prepared to pay for a search themselves.

Maureen Braddy's nephew Shane McDonald had said after the inquest that a reward for information would help.

Police also suggested someone in the Bendigo community held the key to solving this case.

In 2014, Coroner West also noted the highly suspicious behaviour of Maureen Braddy's father Stanley Braddy around the time of the teens' disappearance.

Mr Braddy has said previously at the inquest he believed the duo was kidnapped and were still alive.

The coroner said Mr Braddy's evidence was self-serving and selective.

"I found him an unreliable witness, who had no interest in assisting either my inquiry or that of police," Mr West said.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000 or submit a confidential report online.

Topics: crime, regional, courts-and-trials, bendigo-3550

First posted