Yahoo Diaries: Women’s March on Washington
Yahoo Diaries: Women’s March on Washington
Hi! My name is Meera Oliva. I’m from Newton, Mass. I’m headed to the Women’s March on Washington with my two sisters, two nephews and a friend. I traveled to New Jersey last night, and we just boarded a bus from New Brunswick to Washington, D.C. I’ve never participated in a protest before, but from the day I first heard about this march, I just knew I needed to be a part of it. I am a woman of color, a child of immigrants, a wife of a Latino man and a mother to multi-ethnic children. And I take the election of a man who built his campaign on anti-immigration rhetoric — while shamelessly embracing racism and misogyny — very personally. Like many Americans the morning after the election, I felt that I had woken up in a country I didn’t recognize. I was devastated. But then as the popular vote tally rolled in, I realized that this actually is the country that I know and love. A place where inclusion and diversity are valued and revered. A place where the immigrant story is the American story. A place where we fight for the rights and needs of people less fortunate than us. A place where love trumps hate. I am marching to remind Donald Trump that while he may have been sworn in as president, almost 3 million more Americans voted for someone else. He has no mandate. And we will be watching, fighting and resisting him every step of the way. _____ We just got off the bus and are walking to the rally. It was amazing to see all the people on the streets as the bus rolled into Washington, D.C. My favorite moment was when we drove by a street corner where a bunch of guys had gathered to cheer the buses. And the guys had signs that said “Grab Back!” The energy and sense of community here is amazing. It’s crowded, and it’s a little unclear where people are gathering and what we should be doing. But everyone is smiling, warm and friendly. What’s so amazing to me is seeing all the reasons why people are walking. The signs feature messages about women’s rights, the environment, religious freedom and having a free press. Today is about so many things. _____ It is VERY crowded and a little disorganized. It is difficult to get to the rally, and thousands of people have spilled onto the National Mall. We are shoulder to shoulder, and it’s difficult to move. Most people are just waiting for the march to begin so we can start moving again. There’s a lot of spontaneous chanting and singing breaking out. I’m struck by how friendly everyone is and how safe it feels despite the packed crowd. I’m also very encouraged by how many men are here, standing up for women. One of the most difficult parts of this election was watching a woman who is so qualified, smart and capable being defeated by a man who is so ignorant and unfit for office. It was a slap in the face to women everywhere. I’m happy to see our brothers, husbands, fathers and friends supporting us today. And I’m super grateful for my own husband, who is taking care of our three kids so I can march for them today. _____ We’ve been “marching” for a little while now — if you can call it that. There are so many people here that it’s hard to tell where we are going or in what direction we are moving. People are starting to move barriers just to allow the crowds to keep moving. We’ve just learned the news that there may be too many people here to actually hold the march. It sounds like the route is just packed with people and there’s nowhere for them to move. I guess that means we came out in big numbers today! It certainly feels that way in the middle of the crowd, but it’s hard to comprehend the enormity of the event when you are in the middle of it sometimes. We are a little disappointed because we were looking forward to marching, but we’ll keep going for now and see what happens! _____ We’ve made it to Pennsylvania Ave.! Huge crowds are marching and heading to the White House! The stands still out from the inauguration are full, and the people are so energized! We marched right by Trump’s local hotel. There were loud boos from the crowds as we passed. After being penned in all day between barricades, it feels so awesome to be walking through the streets! _____  We’ve managed to spill out into the streets, and now the crowds are moving more easily and freely. There may not be an official march, but people are still marching! I think my favorite moment of the day has been walking by a circle of women joyously singing and dancing to “Survivor.” The energy is amazing and contagious! _____ Well, we are boarding the bus to go back to New Jersey. It was an amazing experience — both for what it was and for what it wasn’t. It wasn’t violent, angry or unsafe. It was welcoming, positive and empowering. I can’t say enough how friendly and kind everyone was all day despite being packed together and unable to move. Everyone feels a sense of pride in what we accomplished today. For me, today represents a real turning point in how I feel postelection. I’ve struggled these past few weeks with how to move forward when it feels like the country is moving backward. I’ve felt sad that the country that I know — the one I view through the eyes of a woman and of a first-generation American — may not be the country that I’ve always thought it to be. I’ve been anxious and angry, and I have felt really helpless. But today, that changed. I saw today that we, the majority in this country, will fight to protect the America that we know, and that we are a force to be reckoned with. Our journey starts today.  _____  I’m Judy Moticka from St. Louis (by way of Wisconsin). I’m a mom, new grandma, former English teacher, lifelong Democrat and Green Bay Packers fan. Eight years ago, I was in Washington, D.C., for Barack Obama’s inauguration, and I was filled with hope. This morning, I woke up full of despair. But then I came and climbed on this bus with 54 other badass women (and a few badass men), and I’m feeling empowered. We climbed aboard in groups of one or two or three, but now we’re all buddies. One woman had tears in her eyes — it’s her first time leaving her 13-month-old daughter. But she’s meeting up with her sister and told me she has to do this for her daughter. Behind me are two young nurses who work in one of the city hospitals. They’re doing this for themselves and for their patients, many of whom are terrified of losing their health insurance. I’m marching for all the times I was told to wait or be quiet or not get too emotional. I’m marching for all the friends who have reached out to me to tell me they’re with me in spirit. I’m carrying the hopes, dreams and fears of so many. _____ After a long bus ride, we began the walk from Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium to the rally site, as the D.C. Metro system was too packed. As we walked, more people joined, and folks came out to their porches to cheer us on. Everyone fed off everyone else’s energy. People are laughing, chanting and making connections. I love all the little girls marching. The signs are brilliant. We aren’t going anywhere — literally or figuratively. We’re still blocks from the stage and are at a complete standstill. But no one is complaining. _____ After finally edging our way to the back of the rally stage, we were pretty pumped to have Alicia Keys show up. But the crowd was getting really restless to March. Eventually, we realized that the march couldn’t start because the entire parade route was wall-to-wall people. We ended up going to a street off the route, and it was also very crowded. But we marched anyway. There were people lining the overpasses, cheering for us and people along the parade route. It was so completely empowering and energizing. As jam-packed as it was and as tired as everyone was, no one was grumpy or mean. It was just such an amazing celebration. It felt a little bit like Mardi Gras, with musicians and dancing. As much as my feet are killing me, I wouldn’t have missed this for the world. _____ I’m still processing the day, and I surely will be for some time. From the early morning stop for coffee at 5:30 a.m, to seeing bus after bus after bus pull in — knowing they were filled with people, all gathering to march for love, justice and human rights (which ARE women’s rights, damnit!). The walk to the Women’s March. The march itself. The people filled with passion, joy and determination. This matters. Our voices will be heard. And now, with the day’s events ending, this restaurant is filled with marchers all sharing their stories and experiences. And all this energy in the whole world right now is a powerful thing.  _____ Hello, everyone, my name is Lacey Karge. I am traveling from Clarksville, Tenn., with my mom, Stacey Karge, and my best friend, Ashleigh Benge. I am a junior at Austin Peay State University, majoring in social work with a minor in psychology. As of right now, my post-college plans consist of a career in a children’s hospital, hopefully St. Jude’s of Nashville. We are currently boarding the charter buses at the west town mall in Knoxville, Tenn. There is so much excitement in the atmosphere. It is great to see so many people coming together to speak their minds. I am not quite sure what to expect in the coming events of the march, but I am hoping to spark some insight and change into the future leaders of America. I am here to advocate for those women and minority’s who could not be with us today. I want to speak out against the injustices and adversities that both groups face on a daily basis. As an individual claiming both characteristics, I believe this march proves a great opportunity not only to speak my voice but to actually make America great again. _____ The passion and energy here in Washington is just awesome. We just got off the Metro bus and are walking toward the main stage. Due to the heavy crowds, we diverted to 7th and Jefferson, or about a block from main stage. But we can still hear most of it from here. We are waiting to meet up with a few friends, and then we will head to the march’s starting point. The crowd’s diversity is great, people have come from all walks of life to be here today — and everyone is really feeling the energy. That energy is nice, since it’s a little cold for a Southern girl!! I don’t think I’ve ever seen a congregation of this magnitude. I love the fact that even though we are all out here marching for different reasons, we can still unite to work and fight for all of our rights. I am definitely looking forward to the proceeding march to the White House. This is my first time visiting Washington, D.C., and I am in awe of the buildings and architecture. I cannot express the joy I feel from this incredible multitude of people. I can tell you already that today is going to be a day to remember! _____ The crowds are immeasurable!! Anticipation builds as we hear the escort officers fire up their sirens … and then we leave the Capitol behind for the march down Pennsylvania Ave., the same route that President Trump took yesterday. The rain ponchos, suits and ties from the inauguration are replaced by a sea of humanity. We were marching for different personal reasons, but the common theme was: “We will not be silenced! You will hear us!” The chants turn jovial as we begin to gather at the front of the Trump International Hotel. It is here that rounds of boos fill the air. But the crowd remains respectfully defiant in its cries. It’s no longer about politics — it’s about being a human being, fighting for the rights of us all. The march turns to the right as we make the turn toward 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Police and the Secret Service begin to show their presence. We are among the lucky few: the ones who can see our nation’s home, the White House. But later we learn that many could not make it there. The crowds were just too heavy. Whether or not President Trump hears our cries or denies the truth of the numbers of citizens who have banded together here no longer matters. Because we all realize this is not the end of the Women’s March on Washington. This is the beginning of a new passion toward reclaiming our rights, from the government that is for the people, by the people. We are stronger together. _____ Today has been so inspiring. We didn’t get to see a lot of the speakers because there was such a heavy flow of people. But overall I think that we have truly sparked change in some of the leaders of America. I think we really did a great thing here today.  ____ In Trump’s inaugural speech, a demand for unity and loyalty Presidential speechwriters survey the carnage  Protesters throng Trump inauguration route and face off with police

In the latest edition of Yahoo Diaries , we enlisted three correspondents who participated in the Women’s March on Washington and gave Yahoo News the inside scoop on the massive demonstration following President Trump’s inauguration. Through the point of view of three everyday Americans who decided to head to Washington, D.C., see firsthand how this event unfolded . Using journal entries and video, these women give an up close and personal look of Saturday’s historic event — the next best thing to actually being there.

_____

Hi! My name is Meera Oliva. I’m from Newton, Mass. I’m headed to the Women’s March on Washington with my two sisters, two nephews and a friend. I traveled to New Jersey last night, and we just boarded a bus from New Brunswick to Washington, D.C.

I’ve never participated in a protest before, but from the day I first heard about this march, I just knew I needed to be a part of it. I am a woman of color, a child of immigrants, a wife of a Latino man and a mother to multi-ethnic children. And I take the election of a man who built his campaign on anti-immigration rhetoric — while shamelessly embracing racism and misogyny — very personally.

Like many Americans the morning after the election, I felt that I had woken up in a country I didn’t recognize. I was devastated. But then as the popular vote tally rolled in, I realized that this actually is the country that I know and love. A place where inclusion and diversity are valued and revered. A place where the immigrant story is the American story. A place where we fight for the rights and needs of people less fortunate than us. A place where love trumps hate.

I am marching to remind Donald Trump that while he may have been sworn in as president, almost 3 million more Americans voted for someone else. He has no mandate. And we will be watching, fighting and resisting him every step of the way.

_____

We just got off the bus and are walking to the rally. It was amazing to see all the people on the streets as the bus rolled into Washington, D.C. My favorite moment was when we drove by a street corner where a bunch of guys had gathered to cheer the buses. And the guys had signs that said “Grab Back!”

The energy and sense of community here is amazing. It’s crowded, and it’s a little unclear where people are gathering and what we should be doing. But everyone is smiling, warm and friendly. What’s so amazing to me is seeing all the reasons why people are walking. The signs feature messages about women’s rights, the environment, religious freedom and having a free press. Today is about so many things.

_____

It is VERY crowded and a little disorganized. It is difficult to get to the rally, and thousands of people have spilled onto the National Mall. We are shoulder to shoulder, and it’s difficult to move. Most people are just waiting for the march to begin so we can start moving again. There’s a lot of spontaneous chanting and singing breaking out.

Read More

Signs left outside a Metro station after the Women’s March in Washington, D.C. (Photo: Meera Oliva for Yahoo News) More

I’m struck by how friendly everyone is and how safe it feels despite the packed crowd. I’m also very encouraged by how many men are here, standing up for women. One of the most difficult parts of this election was watching a woman who is so qualified, smart and capable being defeated by a man who is so ignorant and unfit for office. It was a slap in the face to women everywhere. I’m happy to see our brothers, husbands, fathers and friends supporting us today. And I’m super grateful for my own husband, who is taking care of our three kids so I can march for them today.

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 2 p.m.

We’ve been “marching” for a little while now — if you can call it that. There are so many people here that it’s hard to tell where we are going or in what direction we are moving. People are starting to move barriers just to allow the crowds to keep moving. We’ve just learned the news that there may be too many people here to actually hold the march. It sounds like the route is just packed with people and there’s nowhere for them to move.

I guess that means we came out in big numbers today! It certainly feels that way in the middle of the crowd, but it’s hard to comprehend the enormity of the event when you are in the middle of it sometimes. We are a little disappointed because we were looking forward to marching, but we’ll keep going for now and see what happens!

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 2:44 p.m.

We’ve made it to Pennsylvania Ave.! Huge crowds are marching and heading to the White House! The stands still out from the inauguration are full, and the people are so energized! We marched right by Trump’s local hotel. There were loud boos from the crowds as we passed. After being penned in all day between barricades, it feels so awesome to be walking through the streets!

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 3:15 p.m.

We’ve managed to spill out into the streets, and now the crowds are moving more easily and freely. There may not be an official march, but people are still marching! I think my favorite moment of the day has been walking by a circle of women joyously singing and dancing to “Survivor.” The energy is amazing and contagious!

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 4:45 p.m.



Well, we are boarding the bus to go back to New Jersey. It was an amazing experience — both for what it was and for what it wasn’t. It wasn’t violent, angry or unsafe. It was welcoming, positive and empowering. I can’t say enough how friendly and kind everyone was all day despite being packed together and unable to move. Everyone feels a sense of pride in what we accomplished today.

For me, today represents a real turning point in how I feel postelection. I’ve struggled these past few weeks with how to move forward when it feels like the country is moving backward. I’ve felt sad that the country that I know — the one I view through the eyes of a woman and of a first-generation American — may not be the country that I’ve always thought it to be. I’ve been anxious and angry, and I have felt really helpless. But today, that changed. I saw today that we, the majority in this country, will fight to protect the America that we know, and that we are a force to be reckoned with.

Our journey starts today.

– Meera Oliva for Yahoo News

_____

Jan. 20, 2017 — 4:30 p.m.

I’m Judy Moticka from St. Louis (by way of Wisconsin). I’m a mom, new grandma, former English teacher, lifelong Democrat and Green Bay Packers fan.

Eight years ago, I was in Washington, D.C., for Barack Obama’s inauguration, and I was filled with hope. This morning, I woke up full of despair. But then I came and climbed on this bus with 54 other badass women (and a few badass men), and I’m feeling empowered. We climbed aboard in groups of one or two or three, but now we’re all buddies. One woman had tears in her eyes — it’s her first time leaving her 13-month-old daughter. But she’s meeting up with her sister and told me she has to do this for her daughter. Behind me are two young nurses who work in one of the city hospitals. They’re doing this for themselves and for their patients, many of whom are terrified of losing their health insurance.

I’m marching for all the times I was told to wait or be quiet or not get too emotional. I’m marching for all the friends who have reached out to me to tell me they’re with me in spirit. I’m carrying the hopes, dreams and fears of so many.

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 10:30 a.m.

After a long bus ride, we began the walk from Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium to the rally site, as the D.C. Metro system was too packed. As we walked, more people joined, and folks came out to their porches to cheer us on. Everyone fed off everyone else’s energy. People are laughing, chanting and making connections. I love all the little girls marching. The signs are brilliant.

We aren’t going anywhere — literally or figuratively. We’re still blocks from the stage and are at a complete standstill. But no one is complaining.

Judy Moticka, right, and friend Sue Mitch before boarding the bus in St. Louis en route to the Women’s March in Washington, D.C. (Photo: Courtesy Judy Moticka for Yahoo News) More

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 2:15 p.m.

After finally edging our way to the back of the rally stage, we were pretty pumped to have Alicia Keys show up. But the crowd was getting really restless to March. Eventually, we realized that the march couldn’t start because the entire parade route was wall-to-wall people. We ended up going to a street off the route, and it was also very crowded.

But we marched anyway. There were people lining the overpasses, cheering for us and people along the parade route. It was so completely empowering and energizing. As jam-packed as it was and as tired as everyone was, no one was grumpy or mean. It was just such an amazing celebration. It felt a little bit like Mardi Gras, with musicians and dancing. As much as my feet are killing me, I wouldn’t have missed this for the world.

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 5:15 p.m.

I’m still processing the day, and I surely will be for some time. From the early morning stop for coffee at 5:30 a.m, to seeing bus after bus after bus pull in — knowing they were filled with people, all gathering to march for love, justice and human rights (which ARE women’s rights, damnit!).

The walk to the Women’s March. The march itself. The people filled with passion, joy and determination. This matters. Our voices will be heard.

And now, with the day’s events ending, this restaurant is filled with marchers all sharing their stories and experiences. And all this energy in the whole world right now is a powerful thing.

— Judy Moticka for Yahoo News

_____

Jan. 20, 2017 — 8:45 p.m.

Hello, everyone, my name is Lacey Karge. I am traveling from Clarksville, Tenn., with my mom, Stacey Karge, and my best friend, Ashleigh Benge. I am a junior at Austin Peay State University, majoring in social work with a minor in psychology. As of right now, my post-college plans consist of a career in a children’s hospital, hopefully St. Jude’s of Nashville.

We are currently boarding the charter buses at the west town mall in Knoxville, Tenn. There is so much excitement in the atmosphere. It is great to see so many people coming together to speak their minds. I am not quite sure what to expect in the coming events of the march, but I am hoping to spark some insight and change into the future leaders of America. I am here to advocate for those women and minority’s who could not be with us today. I want to speak out against the injustices and adversities that both groups face on a daily basis.

As an individual claiming both characteristics, I believe this march proves a great opportunity not only to speak my voice but to actually make America great again.

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 10:15 a.m.

The passion and energy here in Washington is just awesome. We just got off the Metro bus and are walking toward the main stage. Due to the heavy crowds, we diverted to 7th and Jefferson, or about a block from main stage. But we can still hear most of it from here. We are waiting to meet up with a few friends, and then we will head to the march’s starting point.

The crowd’s diversity is great, people have come from all walks of life to be here today — and everyone is really feeling the energy. That energy is nice, since it’s a little cold for a Southern girl!!

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 11:00 a.m.

I don’t think I’ve ever seen a congregation of this magnitude. I love the fact that even though we are all out here marching for different reasons, we can still unite to work and fight for all of our rights. I am definitely looking forward to the proceeding march to the White House. This is my first time visiting Washington, D.C., and I am in awe of the buildings and architecture. I cannot express the joy I feel from this incredible multitude of people. I can tell you already that today is going to be a day to remember!

Lacey Karge, second from right, and friends at the Women’s March in Washington, D.C. (Photo: Courtesy Lacey Karge for Yahoo News) More

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 3:45 p.m.

The crowds are immeasurable!! Anticipation builds as we hear the escort officers fire up their sirens … and then we leave the Capitol behind for the march down Pennsylvania Ave., the same route that President Trump took yesterday. The rain ponchos, suits and ties from the inauguration are replaced by a sea of humanity. We were marching for different personal reasons, but the common theme was: “We will not be silenced! You will hear us!”

The chants turn jovial as we begin to gather at the front of the Trump International Hotel. It is here that rounds of boos fill the air. But the crowd remains respectfully defiant in its cries. It’s no longer about politics — it’s about being a human being, fighting for the rights of us all. The march turns to the right as we make the turn toward 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Police and the Secret Service begin to show their presence. We are among the lucky few: the ones who can see our nation’s home, the White House. But later we learn that many could not make it there. The crowds were just too heavy.

Whether or not President Trump hears our cries or denies the truth of the numbers of citizens who have banded together here no longer matters. Because we all realize this is not the end of the Women’s March on Washington. This is the beginning of a new passion toward reclaiming our rights, from the government that is for the people, by the people. We are stronger together.

_____

Jan. 21, 2017 — 6:30 p.m.

Today has been so inspiring. We didn’t get to see a lot of the speakers because there was such a heavy flow of people. But overall I think that we have truly sparked change in some of the leaders of America. I think we really did a great thing here today.

– Lacey Karge for Yahoo News

Cover thumbnail photo: Mary F. Calvert for Yahoo News

____

Related slideshows:

Slideshow: Women’s March on Washington D.C. >>>

Slideshow: Signs of the Women’s March around the world >>>

Slideshow: Women’s March around the world >>>

Slideshow: How newspapers covered President’s Trump inauguration >>>

Slideshow: Anti-Trump inauguration protests break out in U.S. >>>

Slideshow: Protests worldwide against the inauguration of Donald Trump >>>

Slideshow: Obama’s Washington >>>

Slideshow: Donald Trump’s Inauguration Day >>>

Slideshow: 66 hands on 66 Bibles >>>

Read more from Yahoo News: