Helen Mirren’s Instagram Is The Most Delightful Thing You’ll See Today
Helen Mirren's Instagram Is The Most Delightful Thing You'll See Today
Hey guys. It might have been a stressful day/week/month/year for you. But I’m here with a momentary answer to all of your problems. And the answer is: Helen Mirren. She’s the best right? Well, did you know she has an Instagram ? It’s pretty much the most pure and wonderful thing on social media.  View on Instagram Posing on a bed fit for a QUEEN. She enjoys taking shots of people in New York.  View on Instagram Like these two women on the subway, who I assume are the luckiest two girls on planet Earth.  View on Instagram And Helen also loves selfies.  View on Instagram Riding a streetcar like a boss. Selfies galore.  View on Instagram Her gift to us is her Instagram. Honestly, the best selfies. The only selfies that should be on Instagram.  View on Instagram If only she would wear one of my hats. Here’s a half-selfie of her doing the Women’s March.  View on Instagram And just look at this bath ! She loved it so much she posted it TWICE .  View on Instagram Swan ftw. She also likes to share sneak peeks of the ~glam~ process of the Hollywood elite.  View on Instagram Even the top of her head is iconic. Helen, never change. PLEASE.  View on Instagram   I'm Crying Because Ryan Still Has Trista's Final Rose...    30 Things You Should Know About Sam Palladio  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

1. Hey guys. It might have been a stressful day/week/month/year for you. But I’m here with a momentary answer to all of your problems. And the answer is: Helen Mirren. Jamie McCarthy / Getty Images ID: 10369278

2. She’s the best right? Well, did you know she has an Instagram? It’s pretty much the most pure and wonderful thing on social media. Loading View on Instagram instagram.com Posing on a bed fit for a QUEEN. ID: 10369279

3. She enjoys taking shots of people in New York. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren ID: 10369303

4. Like these two women on the subway, who I assume are the luckiest two girls on planet Earth. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren ID: 10369306

5. And Helen also loves selfies. Loading View on Instagram instagram.com Riding a streetcar like a boss. ID: 10369311

6. Selfies galore. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren Her gift to us is her Instagram. ID: 10369312

7. Honestly, the best selfies. The only selfies that should be on Instagram. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren If only she would wear one of my hats. ID: 10369314

8. Here’s a half-selfie of her doing the Women’s March. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren ID: 10369323

9. And just look at this bath! She loved it so much she posted it TWICE. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @helenmirren Swan ftw. ID: 10369319