Donald Trump makes it harder for low-income families to buy a house in one of his first acts as President
Donald Trump makes it harder for low-income families to buy a house in one of his first acts as President
One of Donald Trump’ s first acts as President was to increase the cost of mortgages for low-income and first-time buyers. The Republican suspended one of the final decisions by former President Barack Obama that would have cut Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insurance premiums by 0.25 per cent, meaning the average borrower would save around $500 (£400) a year. The cut was expected to help a quarter of a million more people afford home loans over the next three years. But some Republicans had opposed the rate cut, fearful that if the loans could not be repaid, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) would need a bailout from the Treasury. In 2013, the FHA received a $1.7bn (£1.37bn) rescue package to help it cope with consequences of the collapse of the housing bubble. However, announcing the cut earlier this month, the outgoing Obama administration said sufficient progress had been made since the bailout to justify cutting rates for ordinary Americans. In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump               In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump       President-elect Donald Trump acknowledges guests as he arrives on the platform at the US Capitol in Washington DC   Getty Images        Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Melania Trump looks on during the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol in Washington   AP        President Donald Trump shakes hands with Justice John Roberts after taking the oath at inauguration ceremonies swearing in Trump as the 45th president of the United States   Reuters        President Donald Trump raises his fists after his inauguration on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol   Getty        U.S. President-elect Donald Trump greets outgoing President Barack Obama before Trump is inaugurated during ceremonies on the Capitol in Washington   Reuters        resident-elect Donald Trump arrives on the platform of the US Capitol in Washington DC   Getty Images        Attendees partake in the inauguration ceremonies to swear in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington DC   Reuters        US President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address during ceremonies at the US Capitol in Washington DC   Getty        U.S. President Donald Trump waves with wife Melania during the Inaugural Parade in Washington DC   Reuters        Protesters registered their rage against the new president Friday in a chaotic confrontation with police who used pepper spray and stun grenades in a melee just blocks from Donald Trump's inaugural parade route. Scores were arrested for trashing property and attacking officers   AP        Demonstrators protest against US President Donald Trump in Washington DC   Getty Images        A woman holds a sign before the start of the Presidential Inauguration of Donald Trump at Freedom Plaza in Washington DC   Getty Images        Anti-Trump protesters prepare banners for a protest against the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump, in Berlin   REUTERS        Demonstrators shout slogans against US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC   Getty Images        Demonstrators march, block foot traffic and clash with U.S. Capitol Police at the entry checkpoints for the Inauguration of Donald Trump   Alamy Live News        Demonstrators display a banner as people arrive for US President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration in Washington DC   Getty Images        A man displays a placard as people lineup to get into the National Mall for the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC   Getty Images        Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump raise their hands as they are surrounded by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC   Reuters        A demonstrator wearing a mask depicting Donald Trump protests outside the US Embassy in London   Getty Images        Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside the US Embassy in London   Getty Images        Former US President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush arrive for the Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol   Rex        Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden share an umbrella as President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address at the inauguration in Washington DC   Rex        Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton arrive on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington   Reuters        U.S. Vice President Mike Pence takes the oath of office on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC   Getty Images        Advisors to President-elect Donald Trump, Kellyanne Conway and Steve Bannon depart from services at St. John's Church during the Presidential Inauguration in Washington   Reuters        Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump take cover as they are hit by pepper spray by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC   Reuters        An activist demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump is helped after being hit by pepper spray on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC   Reuters        A police officer tries to tackle a protester demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump   Reuters/Adrees Latif        Police arrest and detain a protester in the street  in Washington DC   Rex        A police officer falls to the ground as another shoots pepper spray at protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC   Reuters  Mr Obama's Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Julian Castro argued that after “four years of straight growth and with sufficient reserves on hand to meet future claims, it's time for FHA to pass along some modest savings to working families“. But announcing its decision to freeze the rate cut, the Trump administration emphasised its duty to taxpayers, saying: “More analysis and research are deemed necessary to assess future adjustments.” It said it was “considering potential market conditions in an ever-changing global economy that could impact our efforts”. Now, the rate will remain at 0.85 per cent, rather than 0.6 per cent. At his confirmation hearing, Mr Trump’s pick for HUD Secretary, Ben Carson, indicated he thought mortgage loans did not necessarily need government backing.   What Donald Trump has planned on his first full day as President The neurosurgeon-turned-politician – who has previously opposed government schemes that encourage what he calls “dependency” – indicated he was open to private companies playing a larger role in providing home loans to poorer households. Mr Carson also said he was surprised by the Obama administrations FHA rate cut, vowing to “really examine that policy” if he was confirmed as HUD secretary. The cut in rates would have come into force on 27 January had it not been suspended. More about: Donald Trump Dr Ben Carson affordable housing Insurance Comments

One of Donald Trump’s first acts as President was to increase the cost of mortgages for low-income and first-time buyers.

The Republican suspended one of the final decisions by former President Barack Obama that would have cut Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insurance premiums by 0.25 per cent, meaning the average borrower would save around $500 (£400) a year.

The cut was expected to help a quarter of a million more people afford home loans over the next three years.

Trump's bizarre signature overshadows first official act as President

But some Republicans had opposed the rate cut, fearful that if the loans could not be repaid, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) would need a bailout from the Treasury.

In 2013, the FHA received a $1.7bn (£1.37bn) rescue package to help it cope with consequences of the collapse of the housing bubble.

However, announcing the cut earlier this month, the outgoing Obama administration said sufficient progress had been made since the bailout to justify cutting rates for ordinary Americans.

In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump







30 show all In pictures: Protests, pomp and Donald Trump

























































1/30 President-elect Donald Trump acknowledges guests as he arrives on the platform at the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty Images

2/30 Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Melania Trump looks on during the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol in Washington AP

3/30 President Donald Trump shakes hands with Justice John Roberts after taking the oath at inauguration ceremonies swearing in Trump as the 45th president of the United States Reuters

4/30 President Donald Trump raises his fists after his inauguration on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol Getty

5/30 U.S. President-elect Donald Trump greets outgoing President Barack Obama before Trump is inaugurated during ceremonies on the Capitol in Washington Reuters

6/30 resident-elect Donald Trump arrives on the platform of the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty Images

7/30 Attendees partake in the inauguration ceremonies to swear in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington DC Reuters

8/30 US President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address during ceremonies at the US Capitol in Washington DC Getty

9/30 U.S. President Donald Trump waves with wife Melania during the Inaugural Parade in Washington DC Reuters

10/30 Protesters registered their rage against the new president Friday in a chaotic confrontation with police who used pepper spray and stun grenades in a melee just blocks from Donald Trump's inaugural parade route. Scores were arrested for trashing property and attacking officers AP

11/30 Demonstrators protest against US President Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

12/30 A woman holds a sign before the start of the Presidential Inauguration of Donald Trump at Freedom Plaza in Washington DC Getty Images

13/30 Anti-Trump protesters prepare banners for a protest against the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump, in Berlin REUTERS

14/30 Demonstrators shout slogans against US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

15/30 Demonstrators march, block foot traffic and clash with U.S. Capitol Police at the entry checkpoints for the Inauguration of Donald Trump Alamy Live News

16/30 Demonstrators display a banner as people arrive for US President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration in Washington DC Getty Images

17/30 A man displays a placard as people lineup to get into the National Mall for the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump in Washington DC Getty Images

18/30 Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump raise their hands as they are surrounded by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

19/30 A demonstrator wearing a mask depicting Donald Trump protests outside the US Embassy in London Getty Images

20/30 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside the US Embassy in London Getty Images

21/30 Former US President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush arrive for the Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol Rex

22/30 Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden share an umbrella as President Donald Trump delivers his inaugural address at the inauguration in Washington DC Rex

23/30 Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton arrive on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington Reuters

24/30 U.S. Vice President Mike Pence takes the oath of office on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC Getty Images

25/30 Advisors to President-elect Donald Trump, Kellyanne Conway and Steve Bannon depart from services at St. John's Church during the Presidential Inauguration in Washington Reuters

26/30 Protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump take cover as they are hit by pepper spray by police on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

27/30 An activist demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump is helped after being hit by pepper spray on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

28/30 A police officer tries to tackle a protester demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump Reuters/Adrees Latif

29/30 Police arrest and detain a protester in the street in Washington DC Rex

30/30 A police officer falls to the ground as another shoots pepper spray at protesters demonstrating against U.S. President Donald Trump on the sidelines of the inauguration in Washington DC Reuters

Mr Obama's Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Julian Castro argued that after “four years of straight growth and with sufficient reserves on hand to meet future claims, it's time for FHA to pass along some modest savings to working families“.

But announcing its decision to freeze the rate cut, the Trump administration emphasised its duty to taxpayers, saying: “More analysis and research are deemed necessary to assess future adjustments.”

It said it was “considering potential market conditions in an ever-changing global economy that could impact our efforts”.

Now, the rate will remain at 0.85 per cent, rather than 0.6 per cent.

At his confirmation hearing, Mr Trump’s pick for HUD Secretary, Ben Carson, indicated he thought mortgage loans did not necessarily need government backing.

The neurosurgeon-turned-politician – who has previously opposed government schemes that encourage what he calls “dependency” – indicated he was open to private companies playing a larger role in providing home loans to poorer households.

Mr Carson also said he was surprised by the Obama administrations FHA rate cut, vowing to “really examine that policy” if he was confirmed as HUD secretary.

The cut in rates would have come into force on 27 January had it not been suspended.