Australian Open: Roger Federer, Stan Wawrinka primed after Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic exits



Australian Open: Roger Federer, Stan Wawrinka primed after Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic exits

Updated

The Australian Open is as wide open as it's ever been in recent times after both the first and second seeds were dumped out in quick succession.

Top-ranked Andy Murray's fourth-round boilover at the hands of world number 50 Mischa Zverev came just a few days after defending champion Novak Djokovic was dumped out of the tournament in the second round.

With just four quarter-finalists confirmed before Monday's fixtures, the year's first grand slam tournament is there for the taking.

Will a rising star claim their first major title this year? Or will former champions in the twilight of their careers enjoy one final, brilliant swansong?

Roger Federer

Deep down, there's a part of us all that want the Fed Express to prove the doubters wrong and clinch an incredible 18th major career title.

Given an incredulous 17th seed pre-tournament, Federer has defied age and the naysayers to return to the form that has characterised a career spent in the upper echelons of tennis greatness.

Made to work in the first round against Jurgen Melzer, Federer cruised past American Noah Rubin in straight sets before an impressive showing against 10th seed Tomas Berdych, dispatched in just 90 minutes.

Given a real test against fifth-seed Kei Nishikori, Federer pulled out all the stops in a five-set epic that showcased the Fed Express we all know and love.

Despite Zverev's stupendous win over Murray, Federer could not hope for a better match-up as he bids for a 13th semi-final appearance at Melbourne Park.

Stan Wawrinka

The last man in recent years to win the Australian Open that isn't called Novak Djokovic, Wawrinka on paper looks to be the favourite now to take out the major Down Under.

The understated Swiss will be up against the fiery Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, but Wawrinka will be banking on cool temperament and a grand slam winning mentality to see him past the French showman.

After he was taken to five sets by Slovakia's Martin Klizan in the first round, Wawrinka eased past Steve Johnson in straight sets before ovecoming a slow start against Viktor Troicki to win in four sets.

Wawrinka's fourth round was a tale of the tie-break as he beat Andreas Seppi 7-6, 7-6, 7-6 to make the last eight.

Jo-Wilfried Tsonga

Jo-Wilfried Tsonga rocketed into Australian affections when he gave Rafael Nadal — at the height of the Spaniard's powers — a tennis lesson in the semi-finals to reach the 2008 Australian Open final.

Since that runner-up finish against Novak Djokovic, however, we've yet to see a repeat, with just the one semi-final appearance to speak of since in 2010, with this the first appearance in the last eight for Tsonga since 2013.

On his day, Tsonga is a magnificent spectacle of sizzling top-spin power and athleticism, as well as a flair player who has no trouble getting the crowd going in his favour.

But his temperamental style of play can often blow cold more often than hot, and his inconsistency means his fans are often treated only to brief moments of excellence rather than a sustained campaign ending in silverware.

Tsonga has mostly battled through four-setters to get this far, beating Thiago Monteiro (four sets), Dusan Lajovic (three), 23rd-seed Jack Sock (four) and Dan Evans (four) to reach the quarter-finals.

Mischa Zverev

Seemingly the man of the moment after his stunning victory over Andy Murray, Germany's Mischa Zverev would be forgiven for simply enjoying the moment when he faces off against Roger Federer.

But despite his modest world number 50 ranking, a serious opponent looms for the Swiss Master, after a sumptuous display against the world number one Scot.

Zverev caught the eye with a net-rushing strategy that caught Murray flat-footed, outdoing the world's best defensive player as he closed the match out with an electric serve-and-volley game.

The German's run is even more remarkable given he hasn't emerged past the qualifying phases since 2011.

Zverev has beaten Guillermo Garcia-Lopez, John Isner and Malek Jaziri en route to his win over Murray.

Rafael Nadal or Gael Monfils?

The only other former Australian Open champion in the list, Rafael Nadal will also see Murray and Djokovic's exits as a chance to reclaim past glories.

The 2009 champion enjoyed straight-sets wins over Florian Mayer and Marcos Baghdatis before toughing out a classic against Alexander Zverev (the brother of Mischa) in five sets.

Nadal will be the favourite against the elastic talents of Gael Monfils despite an inferior seeding, with Monfils often struggling to impose himself in previous high-profile grand slam tournament match-ups.

Monfils has qualified for a second-successive Australian Open quarter-final, having beaten Jiri Vesely, Alexandr Dolgopolov and Philipp Kohlschreiber in an efficient manner so far.

But will the crowd-pleasing shots be enough against the resurgent might of Nadal?

Milos Raonic or Roberto Bautista Agut?

Canadian hotshot Milos Raonic is the highest seed remaining in the men's draw and this is the perfect chance for him to build on an excellent 2016 with a first-ever major title.

2016 saw Raonic make the semis in Australia, the quarters at Roland Garros and the final at Wimbledon, and now he could have a potentially clear run to the final at Melbourne Park.

Against Spanish challenger Roberto Bautista Agut, Raonic should have enough in the tank to advance, but Agut has been bubbling nicely over the past year, having picked up two ATP titles last year.

Agut beat Guido Pella and Yoshihito Nishioka in straight sets before a four-set win over 21st seed David Ferrer.

Raonic, meanwhile, advanced with ease past Dustin Brown and Gilles Muller, before needing four sets against France's Gilles Simon.

Grigor Dimitrov or Denis Istomin?

Denis Istomin caused the first seismic shock of the men's tournament last week when he dumped Djokovic from the tournament, and now the Uzbek finds himself in the last 16, against the hot talent of Grigor Dimitrov.

It's the furthest Istomin has ever advanced in this tournament, and against Brisbane International winner Dimitrov, that run will do well to continue.

Dimitrov has been labelled 'the Bulgarian Federer' but has often flattered to deceive during his career, particularly on Australian soil.

But having acquired the taste for success Down Under in Brisbane, Dimitrov will be aiming for a semi-finals appearance at least, playing in the most open sector of the men's draw.

Dominic Thiem or David Goffin?

Austrian eighth-seed Dominic Thiem has looked largely unflappable in this Australian Open, but he may have hoped there was a bit more in the tank after playing four sets every match so far.

Having seen off Jan-Lennard Struff, Australia's Jordan Thompson and Benoit Paire, he now comes up against Belgium's David Goffin in a close match-up, as far as seedings are concerned.

Eleventh seed Goffin has never advanced past the last 16 — 2016 was the first time he had reached the fourth round — with the Belgian beating Reilly Opelka, Radek Stepanek and Ivo Karlovic to make it this far.

Topics: australian-open, tennis, sport, melbourne-3000, vic, australia

First posted