Australian Open 2017 day eight: Nadal beats Monfils, Raonic downs Bautista Agut– as it happened

Oh, but before we part, have some reports. Here’s Russell Jackson on how Daria Gavrilova was beaten by Karolina Pliskova . And what about Kevin Mitchell on Joanna Konta ? And here’s Kevin again, on how Andy Murray’s departure from the tournament opens things up for Roger Federer .      And that’s your lot for the day. We’ll be back at the same time tomorrow, with tennis, tennis, tennis all over the place. Cheers for reading!      A belting match in the end, the final set swinging wildly at the last. Monfils looked like he had the momentum behind him after going up a break, but Nadal then stormed back after looking lost to win four games on the spin and take his place in the quarter-final. There he will play Milos Raonic.      Nadal beats Monfils 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 Monfils misses a couple of volleys, and suddenly it’s match point on his own serve. He saves that one with an absolutely perfectly timed whipped forehand that Nadal gropes for. But then another arrives...Monfils hits his first serve into the net, then from the second he puts a backhand wide and that’s the match! Updated       Nadal holds to love. This match has gone back and forth and back again, and a few minutes after Monfils looked the clear favourite, Nadal has snatched back control.      Monfils is suddenly twitching now. A couple of unforced errors give Nadal a break point...which he takes with a double-fisted cross-court backhand! And to think some people were questioning his stamina....      Some signs of life from Nadal. He holds pretty emphatically, featuring one shot which is the sort that could well jolt him back into life. We shall see...      Monfils is cooking now. A nerveless hold, and Nadal really doesn’t look happy. In the past, you’d never question Nadal’s stamina, but now...?      A brilliant, brilliant point from both players ends as Monfils rapidly changes pace from leathered groundstrokes to a delicate drop-shot, followed by a careful pass. Nadal looks rattled now, and he nets a backhand to set up three break points. And he takes the second so very luckily, the ball catching a big chunk of the net but plopping over it. He’s not lucky to be back in the match though - something shifted towards the back end of the last set, and Monfils is arguably favourite now... Updated       Monfils flings down an ace. That’s 12-2 in favour of the Frenchman thus far in this match. But he goes down 15-40, including an errant challenge to a groundstroke that went long. He claws it back to deuce, then advantage, but a double-fault restores parity. Then he closes out the game with a 13th ace. Updated       Rapid hold from Nadal. In these situations it sort of feels like players are just getting the early games out of the way as quickly as possible before they get to the business end of the set. Updated       Just to break into this match, if you’re in the UK you can have a look at some highlights from Jo Konta’s win over Ekaterina Makarova from earlier. Konta will play Serena Williams in the quarter-final. If you’re not in the UK...hard cheese I’m afraid.      Monfils cracks out the jumping volley/slam again, just to keep the punters happy. He holds when Nadal nets a relatively simple return. Updated       The fourth starts with a straightforward hold by Nadal. Just jabs for the moment from both sides. Updated       Monfils wins the third set 6-4, trails 2-1 Ah. Yes. Well. Monfils goes 0-40 down and it looks like that break was for nothing. But he sends down a couple of superb serves to bring it back to deuce...then double-faults to donate another break point. Nadal nets that one, then Monfils sets up a set point with a brilliant ace...which he nets. Nobody seems keen to take this game...but Monfils eventually does by hammering a brilliant cross-court forehand home. That’s the set!      Here we go. Monfils gets himself a rare break point, and closes it out at the first time of asking, as Nadal puts a backhand just wide. He’ll now serve for the third set...      Bubbling along now, this. Hopefully towards some sort of spicy denouement to the set. Monfils holds.      More of a contest now. Monfils makes Nadal work for his hold, and hints at even taking a break, but in the end Nadal retains the slight advantage. No break in this set, though.      A marginally more measured approach from Monfils. And it pays off, after a while, taking the hold but not after a considerable scrap. He closes out the game with a jumping volley at the net. He is, once again, an entertainer.      Monfils tries a slightly new approach, namely just trying to leather the cover off everything to...mixed results. It gets him as far as deuce, but then a remarkable Nadal return from one of those howitzers leads to Monfils netting a forehand. If he’d maybe just taken a bit off one of those...      An encouraging hold for Monfils, no alarms, no surprises.      An event-free, solid serve hold from Nadal ends as Monfils nets a backhand return. Hopefully this match doesn’t peter out, but it’s a long, long way back for Monfils now. Slamtastic... @NickMiller79 One more final would be a joy. It would be 17 Slams versus 14 Slams. That's a lot of Slams. #AusOpen      Nadal plays one of those shots on the run that used to be a staple of his. One second the ball is there, he flicks a wrist then it speeds, dips and curves over the net, and you never had a chance. Nonetheless, Monfils hangs on and holds serve, closing the game with a phenomenal backhand down the line.      A straightforward hold to open the third , and what could be final set. Just something to keep in mind, but Nadal and Roger Federer are in opposite sides of the draw. One more final for old time’s sake?      Nadal takes the second set to lead 2-0 A slightly limp end to the set from Monfils, despite one fizzing backhand down the line and a similar forehand, but ultimately Nadal breaks and takes the set with a fierce shot at the net that Monfils puts just long. Updated       Crumbs. What a couple of shots from both men, particularly Monfils who hits a perfectly placed tracer bullet down the line for a winner. But to no avail, as Nadal draws him into the net with a drop shot, puts a volley that would have been out of reach to virtually any other tennis player alive. Monfils reaches it, but can’t keep his return in. Tennis, this. Tennis .      Ach. And there’s the frustration of Monfils. Nadal comes up with some brilliant forehands, but not a great game by Monfils, serving up a couple of dibbly-dobbly shots to allow the Spaniard to break back straight away.      Now then. Monfils has suddenly turned on the style, racing to a 40-0 lead, one forehand winner particularly fine. But he breaks after a floating Nadal backhand goes long. Now then...      A moment of brief levity as the two players debate over where a serve, called out, landed. The conclusion is that neither knows. Monfils nonetheless holds, and both players seem to be in, well, a holding pattern at the moment, Nadal still in control.      Nadal comes back with some more relentless strokes, and Monfils seems to pull up slightly, possibly favouring an ankle. Regardless, Nadal closes out for a solid hold. Topics  Australian Open 2017   Australian Open   Tennis   Australia sport   Rafael Nadal

Rafa Nadal set up a quarter-final against Milos Raonic with a hard-fought win over Gael Monfils, while home interest ended when Daria Gavrilova was knocked out