Swedish Woman Allegedly Gangraped By Three Young Men, Her Torture Broadcast On Facebook Live
Swedish Woman Allegedly Gangraped By Three Young Men, Her Torture Broadcast On Facebook Live
Swedish Woman Allegedly Gangraped By Three Young Men, Her Torture Broadcast On Facebook Live 3 men have been arrested in Uppsala, Sweden as suspects in the gang rape of a 30-year-old woman. Police were reportedly tipped off at around 9 AM, after the night-time incident was live-streamed on Facebook on a private group. Swedish daily tabloid Aftonbladet interviewed some of the members of the 60,000-strong group. They said the girl was "close to unconscious". A woman who saw the live stream thought it was "poorly-orchestrated joke". She claims that 200 people were watching the video at one point, before the police showed up on the scene. 🆘‼️😡🔥 #Sweden : One of three Middle Easterners laughs as they broadcasts gang rape live on Facebook. Scumbags!!! https://t.co/MBxGlMccdL  pic.twitter.com/XI770cwn6P Another woman, 21-year-old Josefine Lundgren alerted the police at 8.24am on Sunday morning "He tore off her clothes and lay down on top of her," Lundgren told Expressen. "Three against one, ha ha ha," was one of the comments on the Live feed. "The first thing you think is 'how can you do such a thing to a girl? And how can you do it live when you know that you are going to go there?'" another said. "I think of course it is screwed, totally sick." Five Refugees In Sweden Gangrape An Afghan Boy For Over An Hour, All May Be Deported Permanently

3 men have been arrested in Uppsala, Sweden as suspects in the gang rape of a 30-year-old woman. Police were reportedly tipped off at around 9 AM, after the night-time incident was live-streamed on Facebook on a private group.

Swedish daily tabloid Aftonbladet interviewed some of the members of the 60,000-strong group. They said the girl was "close to unconscious". A woman who saw the live stream thought it was "poorly-orchestrated joke".

"Two guys pushing down a girl on the bed... I first thought it was a poorly-orchestrated joke. But it was not," 22-year-old Lovis said.

She claims that 200 people were watching the video at one point, before the police showed up on the scene.

🆘‼️😡🔥 #Sweden: One of three Middle Easterners laughs as they broadcasts gang rape live on Facebook. Scumbags!!! https://t.co/MBxGlMccdL pic.twitter.com/XI770cwn6P — Onlinemagazin (@OnlineMagazin) January 23, 2017

Another woman, 21-year-old Josefine Lundgren alerted the police at 8.24am on Sunday morning "He tore off her clothes and lay down on top of her," Lundgren told Expressen.

"You have been raped," one of the men told the woman and laughed.

"Three against one, ha ha ha," was one of the comments on the Live feed.

"The first thing you think is 'how can you do such a thing to a girl? And how can you do it live when you know that you are going to go there?'" another said. "I think of course it is screwed, totally sick."

Also read:

Five Refugees In Sweden Gangrape An Afghan Boy For Over An Hour, All May Be Deported Permanently