CenturyLinkVoice: New Year. New You. Better IT Network.
CenturyLinkVoice: New Year. New You. Better IT Network.
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  CenturyLink       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. You’ve seen the commercials. With the start of a new year, every major fitness chain is encouraging customers to renew their commitment to physical fitness. After all, a new year is a perfect time to “shape up” and transform for the year ahead. While many are focused on personal growth and wellness goals, others have resolutions that incorporate the business side of transformation. Advanced business models are taking shape before our eyes. Customer expectations are at an all-time high as CIOs align for a burgeoning Digital Transformation Expanded adoption of cloud computing and mobility means more traffic is flowing across corporate networks – demanding they evolve into reliable, scalable, and agile business agility platforms . Faced with aging infrastructures and outdated hardware and software, companies are prioritizing investments in hybrid IT networks. Gartner Group estimates nearly 75 percent of all enterprises are investing in hybrid IT approaches that incorporate both on-premise and outsourced components. In an effort to both run and grow the business, nearly 25 percent of all data center footprints in North America are currently outsourced. From fully virtualized cloud infrastructures, to managed hosting and data center colocation, hybrid initiatives empower CIOs to kick-start their company’s transformation without losing current network investments. Experienced service providers can help unlock an infrastructure’s potential, removing the daily burden of managing IT business elements to focus on more strategic initiatives that accelerate the bottom line. Backed by state-of-the-art data centers, hosting services include everything from Managed Office to Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery – enabling teams to respond quickly and efficiently to demands placed on the infrastructure. Colocation takes hybrid strategies to the next level, permitting businesses to rent space for servers and other related hardware. Under this arrangement, providers handle bandwidth, cooling, power, and security needs. With zero upfront capital investment, organizations are empowered to react quickly to business challenges by reallocating resources to dedicated IT facilities. This not only enhances agility, but also sets new benchmarks for reliability and compliance. The New Year is here, and hybrid IT is the remedy for shaping up existing IT infrastructures. Connect with one of our experts today and get your Digital Transformation started!    Trending on {{channel_name}}

You’ve seen the commercials. With the start of a new year, every major fitness chain is encouraging customers to renew their commitment to physical fitness. After all, a new year is a perfect time to “shape up” and transform for the year ahead. While many are focused on personal growth and wellness goals, others have resolutions that incorporate the business side of transformation.

Advanced business models are taking shape before our eyes. Customer expectations are at an all-time high as CIOs align for a burgeoning Digital Transformation. Expanded adoption of cloud computing and mobility means more traffic is flowing across corporate networks – demanding they evolve into reliable, scalable, and agile business agility platforms. Faced with aging infrastructures and outdated hardware and software, companies are prioritizing investments in hybrid IT networks.

Gartner Group estimates nearly 75 percent of all enterprises are investing in hybrid IT approaches that incorporate both on-premise and outsourced components. In an effort to both run and grow the business, nearly 25 percent of all data center footprints in North America are currently outsourced. From fully virtualized cloud infrastructures, to managed hosting and data center colocation, hybrid initiatives empower CIOs to kick-start their company’s transformation without losing current network investments.

Experienced service providers can help unlock an infrastructure’s potential, removing the daily burden of managing IT business elements to focus on more strategic initiatives that accelerate the bottom line. Backed by state-of-the-art data centers, hosting services include everything from Managed Office to Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery – enabling teams to respond quickly and efficiently to demands placed on the infrastructure.

Colocation takes hybrid strategies to the next level, permitting businesses to rent space for servers and other related hardware. Under this arrangement, providers handle bandwidth, cooling, power, and security needs. With zero upfront capital investment, organizations are empowered to react quickly to business challenges by reallocating resources to dedicated IT facilities. This not only enhances agility, but also sets new benchmarks for reliability and compliance.

The New Year is here, and hybrid IT is the remedy for shaping up existing IT infrastructures. Connect with one of our experts today and get your Digital Transformation started!