27 Stunning Photos of the Worlds Most Beautiful Places
27 Stunning Photos of the Worlds Most Beautiful Places
Sam Horine (@samhorine on Instagram) is a New York -based photographer and while his hometown may be his favorite place to take photos, he doesn't let that stop him from traveling the world. After growing up in a small town in Maine and poring over travel magazines like National Geographic, he's turned taking travel photos into a full-time gig. I started going to Europe in high school,Horine said. I traveled as much as I could in collegeI was poor and broke as a college student. It was always something that was important to me, seeing the world, having different perspectives, and trying new things. But it was after moving to New York City that he accidentallyfell into photography. I had taken pictures for years, and I was shooting music in the mid-2000s,he said. I had a lot of friends in bands. It was right around the time all of these blogs were happening. I connected with a lot of other photographers and writers and we created this little network. During all of this, he was still travelingadmittedly only a couple of times a year. And then came along the social media boom, which opened up all kinds of opportunities for travel brands and tourism groups. It was amazingpeople would pay me to go places with my iPhone and take photos,Horine said. And the rest is history. Just last year, Horine visited more than 13 different places. So, which destination around the world has the pull to make someone who travels the world for a living put it at the top of their list? Italy and Greece, for Horine. I was in Rome on a press trip,he said. Afterwards, me, my girlfriend, and a friend of mine who lives in Rome flew over to Greece and visited Santorini. We stayed in this dope cave house on Airbnb. We drank amazing wine, ate amazing food, it was my friend's birthday, we went sailing every day, jumped in the Mediterranean. I'd think, Hey, I feel like getting up for the sunrise.So I did. Italy was so good, he paid it another visit after experiencing Greece. It was one of those destinations I've been wanting to visit forever, he said.I had always known it would be great, but it was even better than I thought. I went to Cinque Terreanother bucket list destination. But, he still cites New York City as one of his favorite place to take photos: New York Cityit's my home, so I have to keep coming back.

The T+L Social Ambassadors are a team of photographers who are taking it to the next level on Instagram. These are the people we see living their best lives, and inspiring our travels on a daily basis. These ambassadors help us all discover the world, whether its exploring a set of national parks, embarking on an African safari, or just taking some time to enjoy the sound of waves from a beach in Europe. Follow along as we introduce more of our ambassadors on the T+L website and social accounts.

Sam Horine (@samhorine on Instagram) is a New York-based photographer and while his hometown may be his favorite place to take photos, he doesn't let that stop him from traveling the world.

After growing up in a small town in Maine and poring over travel magazines like National Geographic, he's turned taking travel photos into a full-time gig.

I started going to Europe in high school,Horine said. I traveled as much as I could in collegeI was poor and broke as a college student. It was always something that was important to me, seeing the world, having different perspectives, and trying new things.

But it was after moving to New York City that he accidentallyfell into photography.

I had taken pictures for years, and I was shooting music in the mid-2000s,he said. I had a lot of friends in bands. It was right around the time all of these blogs were happening. I connected with a lot of other photographers and writers and we created this little network.

During all of this, he was still travelingadmittedly only a couple of times a year. And then came along the social media boom, which opened up all kinds of opportunities for travel brands and tourism groups. It was amazingpeople would pay me to go places with my iPhone and take photos,Horine said. And the rest is history. Just last year, Horine visited more than 13 different places.

So, which destination around the world has the pull to make someone who travels the world for a living put it at the top of their list? Italy and Greece, for Horine.

I was in Rome on a press trip,he said. Afterwards, me, my girlfriend, and a friend of mine who lives in Rome flew over to Greece and visited Santorini. We stayed in this dope cave house on Airbnb. We drank amazing wine, ate amazing food, it was my friend's birthday, we went sailing every day, jumped in the Mediterranean. I'd think, Hey, I feel like getting up for the sunrise.So I did.

Italy was so good, he paid it another visit after experiencing Greece.

It was one of those destinations I've been wanting to visit forever, he said.I had always known it would be great, but it was even better than I thought. I went to Cinque Terreanother bucket list destination.

But, he still cites New York City as one of his favorite place to take photos: New York Cityit's my home, so I have to keep coming back.