Skydive accident survivor rediscovers passion for life in open water swimming



Skydive accident survivor rediscovers passion for life in open water swimming

Updated

A far north Queensland man whose passion for adventure landed him in a wheelchair is training for one of the toughest open water swims in Queensland.

Jonas Lutke, 28, became a partial quadriplegic following a mid-air skydiving accident over Goondiwindi, southern Queensland, in 2014.

"I had a big jump in the middle of the day with 10 people and basically I got caught off guard and my friend and I got entangled in the sky," Mr Lutke said.

The sky-diving instructor said he was freefalling at around 200 kilometres per hour when they collided.

"Once I got hit I knew something wasn't right, my whole body just went numb," he said.

"I landed and soon after in the hospital I found out I had dislocated my C6 and C7 vertebrae, and I also got a big squeeze on my spinal cord."

Learning to live again

Mr Lutke spent more than six months in hospital, coming to terms with his accident and what it meant for the rest of his life.

"I had to learn to live again, to eat, to talk, to do mundane day-to-day tasks, and two years on I'm still learning how to do this," he said.

"It takes a lot of mental adjustment, but there was no point living in denial, you have to move on and do the best with what you've got."

It was in hospital that Mr Lutke started swimming as a form of rehabilitation.

"Being in the water is just great, it takes the gravity off … I just love the water, it's very similar to air," he said.

"I have learned to set goals and one of my goals this year is the Townsville to Magnetic Island eight-kilometre swim.

"I now have to transfer my pool skills into the open water environment, and because I can't control my body temperature I have to play around with different wet suits," Mr Lutke said.

Coach voices concerns

Mr Lutke's coach, Ben Hitchins, said the former skydiver's swimming has improved, but is not yet convinced he will be able to swim the full eight kilometres.

"When we first came to the pool he was really like a rag doll and he could only get in the pool with a carer," Mr Hitchins said.

"He's come such a long way in a short amount of time."

Mr Hitchins said Mr Lutke's former life of adventure may provide the mental resilience he will need to get across the line.

"He was an extreme sport athlete and that is the mindset he's going to use during the swim and I think he's going to prove me wrong," he said.

Mr Lutke hopes to be race-ready when the Magnetic Island to Townsville Open Water Swim takes place in July.

Topics: swimming, extreme-sports, accidents---other, rehabilitation, disabilities, cairns-4870, townsville-4810, magnetic-island-4819, goondiwindi-4390

First posted