Theresa May avoids questions over possible knowledge of Trident missile error before vote



Theresa May avoids questions over possible knowledge of Trident missile error before vote

Posted

British Prime Minister Theresa May has refused to reveal whether she knew about the reported failure of an unarmed ballistic missile launch at the time of a vote on the UK's nuclear missile system.

The failed launch would have occurred weeks before the House of Commons approved an expensive renewal of the UK's aging nuclear missile system, Trident.

The Sunday Times reported the missile veered off course during a test in June last year.

Key points: Sunday Times reports the missile veered off towards the US, instead of towards Africa

Weeks later House of Commons voted in favour of upgrading Trident missile system

Jeremy Corbyn calls it an opportunity to discuss idea of nuclear disarmament

It said the missile veered towards the US, instead of towards Africa, when it was launched from a British submarine off the coast of Florida.

Weeks later in July, MPs voted overwhelmingly in favour of upgrading Trident.

During the debate, Ms May told MPs that it would be "an act of gross irresponsibility" for the UK to abandon its nuclear weapons.

Ms May was recently questioned by the BBC's Andrew Marr about whether she knew about the test ahead of speaking to the House of Commons and the vote to refurbish the ageing system.

Ms May replied by saying that she had "absolute faith in our Trident missiles".

"When I made that speech in the House of Commons, what we were talking about was whether or not we should renew our Trident, whether or not we should have Trident missiles and independent nuclear deterrent in the future," she said.

"I think we should defend our country, I think we should play our role in NATO with an independent nuclear deterrent.

"[Leader of the Opposition] Jeremy Corbyn thinks differently, Jeremy Corbyn thinks we shouldn't defend our country."

Mr Corbyn called for a serious discussion of the Sunday Times reports.

"It's a pretty catastrophic error when a missile goes in the wrong direction," he said.

"And whilst it wasn't armed, goodness knows what the consequence of that could have been."

Test was a success: Ministry of Defence

The Ministry of Defence did not give details of the test process, but said in a statement that it had been a success.

"Vengeance and her crew were successfully tested and certified, allowing Vengeance to return into service," the statement said.

"We have absolute confidence in our independent nuclear deterrent."

The Trident system was acquired by the Thatcher government in the early 80s and has three parts — submarines, missiles and warheads.

The submarines can carry up to 16 ballistic missiles armed with nuclear warheads, and one is supposed to be on patrol at all times.

Is the Pine Gap spy base at risk?

Newly released CIA documents have revealed Australia's specific stake in nuclear non-proliferation.

A top secret 1987 briefing refers to a draft Australian defence white paper that conceded the Northern Territory's Pine Gap spy base would be attacked if the US and the Soviet Union had a nuclear fight.

But Australia's final white paper that year simply referred to a "risk" that a Pine Gap attack "might" happen.

Richard Tanter, a foreign policy expert at the University of Melbourne, said the difference in language was revealing.

"Now in the politics of the time, that's very, very different," he said.

"And it's very clear that this is part of a pattern the Defence Department had, and I regret to say still has, of misleading the Australian public about the realities of Pine Gap and the other joint facilities."

Topics: defence-and-national-security, foreign-affairs, world-politics, nuclear-issues, united-kingdom