Here's an Unbelievable Twitter Catfish Story to Get You Through Monday
Here's an Unbelievable Twitter Catfish Story to Get You Through Monday
It's Monday. The day is dragging. The week is dragging. A lot about the world sucks right now. So here's a thoroughly engaging, almost unbelievable Twitter catfish story to make your day better. The story unfolded on my timeline late Sunday night, and once it got rolling it was glorious. Our protagonist is Twitter user @Mr1738 , who you've likely seen come through your feed. He has over 900,000 tweets. The jokes turned on him on Sunday night when it came to light that he had possibly been conversing with a Twitter catfish for over two years. It's unclear exactly who outed the catfish account—@KendallJayde—but once the truth was out, the flood gates for insane tweets opened like Moses was at the controls. This was the initial revelation that something was wrong. @Scott_CEOofSUH  @PLAYBOIRICO they was talking to a man pic.twitter.com/1g4ldeleAP Big Daddy E couldn't believe it, but at least he was a good sport. Now this shit getting super weird, i do my lil flirting on the TL but big daddy E ain't talking to nobody I get off work and niggas done got super weird with connecting dots The old tweets were straight jokes. Dhenduwhysjduabsjajsirmsiwjsuwhsuehushesuehwy im fuckin howling pic.twitter.com/G4gFjolBa0 pic.twitter.com/zDM3OFi0HH By now, the timeline was in pure chaos. Issa nigga pic.twitter.com/5d4eoc3QQ0 ok peace pic.twitter.com/Hu1MCvHmKH Of course, he remained a good sport through it all. I will fight all of you niggas "Come Snuggle With a Thug" is a new classic. Nope I'm yelling. RT @AnthonyHarp  @Pchopz_  @Dylan475 lmaoooo pic.twitter.com/H7YJHCkij5 BURPING. DURING. PHONE. SEX. @Dylan475  @Pchopz_ I'm done smh pic.twitter.com/dXPHNGMyVi Users across Twitter had many questions but no answers. Why not slide in the DMs at a certain point? How have you not FaceTimed? Were you not suspicious? Who was running Kendal's account? Whether we get these answers or not, this was undoubtedly a night that will live in social media lore.

It's Monday. The day is dragging. The week is dragging. A lot about the world sucks right now. So here's a thoroughly engaging, almost unbelievable Twitter catfish story to make your day better.

The story unfolded on my timeline late Sunday night, and once it got rolling it was glorious. Our protagonist is Twitter user @Mr1738, who you've likely seen come through your feed. He has over 900,000 tweets.

The jokes turned on him on Sunday night when it came to light that he had possibly been conversing with a Twitter catfish for over two years. It's unclear exactly who outed the catfish account—@KendallJayde—but once the truth was out, the flood gates for insane tweets opened like Moses was at the controls.

This was the initial revelation that something was wrong.

Big Daddy E couldn't believe it, but at least he was a good sport.

Now this shit getting super weird, i do my lil flirting on the TL but big daddy E ain't talking to nobody — Kendall Jayde's (@Mr1738) January 23, 2017

I get off work and niggas done got super weird with connecting dots — Kendall Jayde's (@Mr1738) January 23, 2017

The old tweets were straight jokes.

By now, the timeline was in pure chaos.

Of course, he remained a good sport through it all.

I will fight all of you niggas — Kendall Jayde's (@Mr1738) January 23, 2017

"Come Snuggle With a Thug" is a new classic.

BURPING. DURING. PHONE. SEX.

Users across Twitter had many questions but no answers. Why not slide in the DMs at a certain point? How have you not FaceTimed? Were you not suspicious? Who was running Kendal's account?

Whether we get these answers or not, this was undoubtedly a night that will live in social media lore.