This Guy From Chennai Invented A Fan That Works Without Power For His Grandfather
This Guy From Chennai Invented A Fan That Works Without Power For His Grandfather
This Guy From Chennai Invented A Fan That Works Without Power For His Grandfather People go above and beyond their limits when it comes to their family. In the past and over the years, we have seen innumerable cases wherein ordinary people have done extraordinary things to help a family member. In a similar way, this guy from Chennai designed a fan for his hardworking grandfather that works without power/current. (Also read: Meet The Three Delhi Schoolgirls Whose Invention Will Make Sure Remote Indian Villages Get Pure, Clean Drinking Water ) During 2015-16, the energy shortage was 2.1 percent, which is the lowest ever in a single year. The energy crisis is not new to us and shall hover over us till the time we fight it back with such inventive measures. With discoveries like these, we're on the right track. (Also read: Bengaluru Scientist's Path-Breaking Invention Makes Drinking Water From Sewage A Reality )

People go above and beyond their limits when it comes to their family. In the past and over the years, we have seen innumerable cases wherein ordinary people have done extraordinary things to help a family member.

It's good because it's for love.

In a similar way, this guy from Chennai designed a fan for his hardworking grandfather that works without power/current.

(Also read: Meet The Three Delhi Schoolgirls Whose Invention Will Make Sure Remote Indian Villages Get Pure, Clean Drinking Water)

In a Facebook post, Dinesh Gs shared an image and a video that shows his invention.

In the video, one can clearly see his grandfather, who's at work and using the fan that his grandson invented for him.





During 2015-16, the energy shortage was 2.1 percent, which is the lowest ever in a single year. The energy crisis is not new to us and shall hover over us till the time we fight it back with such inventive measures.

With discoveries like these, we're on the right track.

(Also read: Bengaluru Scientist's Path-Breaking Invention Makes Drinking Water From Sewage A Reality)

We tried reaching Dinesh for more information on this, but we haven't heard from him as of yet. We will update the article once we learn more on the respective subject.