Which Economies Will Grow And Which Ones Will Fail Over Next Three Years
Which Economies Will Grow And Which Ones Will Fail Over Next Three Years
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kenneth Rapoza       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange waiting for the U.S. economy to push the Dow Jones Industrial Average above 20,000 points for the first time in history. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) The World Bank released its mammoth 276 page report on the global economy for the next three years. The takeaway: global trade flows will improve, and U.S. stimulus under Donald Trump will help a number of emerging markets that benefit from a strong U.S. consumer and dollar inflows. But even as Trump may very well change the rules of the game, economies are still left to their own devices. Economic fails will be on their shoulders alone, not on The Donald's. Moreover, if the Republicans do agree to cut corporate taxes and stimulate the economy with infrastructure spending, the U.S. real growth rate will decline on account of higher inflation. President-elect Donald Trump will give his first press conference on Wednesday. Investors want to hear what he will say about China trade tariffs, Mexico and Russia. "Our major concern is if Donald Trump is going to bring jobs from countries like Germany and UK," says Naeem Aslam, chief market strategist for ThinkMarkets, a forex brokerage in London. "If pursued, it will impact the U.S. relationship with these countries. European countries are not going to sit back and let these jobs slide to the U.S., there will be a reaction and it is not going to be a friendly one." This could especially be true for countries like Ireland, where American tech firms have been hiding out in Dublin tax havens. Those days are coming to an end, but that is more the handiwork of the European Commission than the coming of Trump. As for Mexico, more job losses are likely but it might not hurt the economy as much as investors think, according to World Bank forecasts. Here's a look at some winners and losers over the next three years. An Inside Look At Donald Trump's $100 Million Private Jet Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The World Bank released its mammoth 276 page report on the global economy for the next three years. The takeaway: global trade flows will improve, and U.S. stimulus under Donald Trump will help a number of emerging markets that benefit from a strong U.S. consumer and dollar inflows.

But even as Trump may very well change the rules of the game, economies are still left to their own devices. Economic fails will be on their shoulders alone, not on The Donald's. Moreover, if the Republicans do agree to cut corporate taxes and stimulate the economy with infrastructure spending, the U.S. real growth rate will decline on account of higher inflation.

President-elect Donald Trump will give his first press conference on Wednesday. Investors want to hear what he will say about China trade tariffs, Mexico and Russia. "Our major concern is if Donald Trump is going to bring jobs from countries like Germany and UK," says Naeem Aslam, chief market strategist for ThinkMarkets, a forex brokerage in London. "If pursued, it will impact the U.S. relationship with these countries. European countries are not going to sit back and let these jobs slide to the U.S., there will be a reaction and it is not going to be a friendly one."

This could especially be true for countries like Ireland, where American tech firms have been hiding out in Dublin tax havens. Those days are coming to an end, but that is more the handiwork of the European Commission than the coming of Trump.

As for Mexico, more job losses are likely but it might not hurt the economy as much as investors think, according to World Bank forecasts.

Here's a look at some winners and losers over the next three years.

Country 2017 2018 2019 U.S.A. 2.2 2.1 1.9 Euro area 1.5 1.4 1.4 Japan 0.9 0.8 0.4 U.K. 1.2 1.2 1.3 Russia 1.5 1.7 1.8 Brazil 0.5 1.8 2.2 Mexico 1.8 2.5 2.8 Venezuela -4.3 0.5 1.0 India 7.6 7.8 7.8 South Africa 1.1 1.8 1.8 China 6.5 6.3 6.3 Ukraine 2.0 3.0 3.0 Colombia 2.5 3.0 3.3 Turkey 3.0 3.5 3.7

Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker