What we love about Milton Keynes
What we love about Milton Keynes
o mark its 50th birthday, here are 11 reasons to love Milton Keynes. 1. There are waterside delights MK is on the doorstep of the Grand Union canal, whose towpaths are home to waterside pubs and villages including pretty Stoke Bruerne, which has a Canal Museum. Other towns with the Milton Keynes borough include Wavendon, Fenny and Stony Stratford and Milton Keynes Village - the village (named in Saxon times) that gave its name to the "new city". 2. It's easy to reach It's 60 miles from London (exactly the same distance as Brighton) and yet the fastest train to Euston is 30 mins - less than half the time it takes to travel from Brighton to Victoria. It's also just a 10-minute drive from the M1. 3. The roundabouts It's a brilliant place to drive - roundabouts over traffic lights any day (you rarely dip below 40mph). 4. Skater culture Born out of the sheer quantity of concrete. 5. The National Bowl It has hosted, among others, Bowie, REM, Michael Jackson, Jay-Z, Eminem, Foo Fighters, Status Quo, Queen, U2 and Metallica. The raised amphitheatre (formerly a clay-pit) has excellent acoustics. A photo posted by Alex Shepherd | Life (@alexshepherdlife) on 6. Sporting prowess MK Dons reached the Championship in 2015 (though, admittedly, were relegated) and gave the world Dele Alli. There's also a 2,800 capacity ice hockey stadium, home to MK Lightening. Other notable former residents include James Hildreth, the cricketer, and Craig Pickering, the sprinter. Milton Keynes is also home to two indoor ski centres with real snow slopes and new freestyle terrain built each week. Ski and snowboard lessons are available for all levels and ages and there’s also sledging and ice sliding. 7. Film for all The Point, built of glass in the shape of a pyramid, was the first ever multiplex cinema in Britain (and probably served the first nachos). It is now, sadly, slated for demolition. 8. Bletchley Park The Second World War code-breaking site lies on the outskirts of Milton Keynes and underwent an £8m restoration in 2014. 9. Milton Keynes Museum Housed in a former Victorian farmstead, this museum's highlights include memorabilia of the Wolverton railway works (developed by Robert Stephenson) and a wide variety of historic telephones and switchboards. A photo posted by @neilmk on 10. Family fun Gulliver's Land theme park opened in 1999. Catering for under 10s, it features seven sections, including Lilliput Land, Adventure Land, Toy Land, and Discovery Bay. For something a little more intense, head to Aerial Extreme on the banks of pretty Willen Lake (pictured top). It can boast four zip lines and all manner of lofty obstacles. 11. Job opportunities The city's proximity to London and the M1 means that many companies have HQs there, such as Domino's Pizza, Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen, Network Rail, Red Bull Racing, Argos, Nissan, Suzuki, Rightmove, Marshall Amplification and Rubicon Drinks.

To mark its 50th birthday, here are 11 reasons to love Milton Keynes.

1. There are waterside delights

MK is on the doorstep of the Grand Union canal, whose towpaths are home to waterside pubs and villages including pretty Stoke Bruerne, which has a Canal Museum. Other towns with the Milton Keynes borough include Wavendon, Fenny and Stony Stratford and Milton Keynes Village - the village (named in Saxon times) that gave its name to the "new city".

The Grand Union canal near Stoke Bruerne Credit: ALAMY

2. It's easy to reach

It's 60 miles from London (exactly the same distance as Brighton) and yet the fastest train to Euston is 30 mins - less than half the time it takes to travel from Brighton to Victoria. It's also just a 10-minute drive from the M1.

3. The roundabouts

It's a brilliant place to drive - roundabouts over traffic lights any day (you rarely dip below 40mph).

Milton Keynes: we love it Credit: ALAMY

4. Skater culture

Born out of the sheer quantity of concrete.

5. The National Bowl

It has hosted, among others, Bowie, REM, Michael Jackson, Jay-Z, Eminem, Foo Fighters, Status Quo, Queen, U2 and Metallica. The raised amphitheatre (formerly a clay-pit) has excellent acoustics.

A photo posted by Alex Shepherd | Life (@alexshepherdlife) on Jan 19, 2017 at 3:44pm PST

6. Sporting prowess

MK Dons reached the Championship in 2015 (though, admittedly, were relegated) and gave the world Dele Alli. There's also a 2,800 capacity ice hockey stadium, home to MK Lightening. Other notable former residents include James Hildreth, the cricketer, and Craig Pickering, the sprinter.

MK gave us this chap Credit: PA Wire/John Walton

Milton Keynes is also home to two indoor ski centres with real snow slopes and new freestyle terrain built each week. Ski and snowboard lessons are available for all levels and ages and there’s also sledging and ice sliding.

7. Film for all

The Point, built of glass in the shape of a pyramid, was the first ever multiplex cinema in Britain (and probably served the first nachos). It is now, sadly, slated for demolition.

8. Bletchley Park

The Second World War code-breaking site lies on the outskirts of Milton Keynes and underwent an £8m restoration in 2014.

An Enigma code-breaking machine Credit: 2004 AFP/MARTYN HAYHOW

9. Milton Keynes Museum

Housed in a former Victorian farmstead, this museum's highlights include memorabilia of the Wolverton railway works (developed by Robert Stephenson) and a wide variety of historic telephones and switchboards.

A photo posted by @neilmk on Sep 19, 2012 at 10:39am PDT

10. Family fun

Gulliver's Land theme park opened in 1999. Catering for under 10s, it features seven sections, including Lilliput Land, Adventure Land, Toy Land, and Discovery Bay. For something a little more intense, head to Aerial Extreme on the banks of pretty Willen Lake (pictured top). It can boast four zip lines and all manner of lofty obstacles.

11. Job opportunities

The city's proximity to London and the M1 means that many companies have HQs there, such as Domino's Pizza, Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen, Network Rail, Red Bull Racing, Argos, Nissan, Suzuki, Rightmove, Marshall Amplification and Rubicon Drinks.