Press secretary Sean Spicer had some real problems with 'Daft Funk' back in 2014
Press secretary Sean Spicer had some real problems with 'Daft Funk' back in 2014
Trump's new administration seems to have a long-standing vendetta against music-making robots. Daft Punk , have long hid under the guise of shiny robotic helmets. It's their schtick and it's worked for years, earning them multiple awards and chart-topping songs—but according to Donald Trump's press secretary, they 'need to grow up.' Sean Spicer—the man who has fought Dippin' Dots and inauguration crowds —gladly made his opinions knows to the French hit-makers back in 2014. Despite him claiming to be a fan, they're slightly embarrassing. SEE ALSO: Trump's press secretary Sean Spicer has an odd, long-running feud with Dippin' Dots Spicer, intent to live-tweet the Grammys back in 2014, started off by calling the duo 'Daft Funk' and claiming that they were ruining their 10 seconds in the spotlight, though he did not specify how, exactly. Daft Funk — this is your 10 seconds in the spotlight - u r blowing it #GRAMMYs  #Grammys2014 — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 27, 2014 Thankfully someone was around back then to straighten him out a bit. "Um, they've been nominated and won [multiple] times since '98," Dan Blum, former political communications professional, reminded Spicer. Um, they've been nominated and won mult times since 98 RT @seanspicer Daft Funk — this is your 10 seconds in the spotlight - ur blowing it — Dan Blum (@DanDoranBlum) January 27, 2014 And in response, Spicer, who claimed to be an early fan despite not knowing their name, had one thing to say: grow up and ditch the helmets. @DanDoranBlum was an early and still fan but come on helmets?  tey need to grow up — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 27, 2014 No word if Spicer is still a Daft Funk or Daft Punk fan or if these are all just alternative facts. BONUS: Donald Trump's inauguration address included a Bane quote

Trump's new administration seems to have a long-standing vendetta against music-making robots.

Daft Punk, have long hid under the guise of shiny robotic helmets. It's their schtick and it's worked for years, earning them multiple awards and chart-topping songs—but according to Donald Trump's press secretary, they 'need to grow up.'

Sean Spicer—the man who has fought Dippin' Dots and inauguration crowds—gladly made his opinions knows to the French hit-makers back in 2014.

Despite him claiming to be a fan, they're slightly embarrassing.

Spicer, intent to live-tweet the Grammys back in 2014, started off by calling the duo 'Daft Funk' and claiming that they were ruining their 10 seconds in the spotlight, though he did not specify how, exactly.

Daft Funk — this is your 10 seconds in the spotlight - u r blowing it #GRAMMYs #Grammys2014 — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 27, 2014

Thankfully someone was around back then to straighten him out a bit.

"Um, they've been nominated and won [multiple] times since '98," Dan Blum, former political communications professional, reminded Spicer.

Um, they've been nominated and won mult times since 98 RT @seanspicer Daft Funk — this is your 10 seconds in the spotlight - ur blowing it — Dan Blum (@DanDoranBlum) January 27, 2014

And in response, Spicer, who claimed to be an early fan despite not knowing their name, had one thing to say: grow up and ditch the helmets.

@DanDoranBlum was an early and still fan but come on helmets? tey need to grow up — Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 27, 2014

No word if Spicer is still a Daft Funk or Daft Punk fan or if these are all just alternative facts.