A Huge Fan Of Biryani, Malaika Arora Khan's Secret To A Healthy Living Is To Never Skip A Meal!
A Huge Fan Of Biryani, Malaika Arora Khan's Secret To A Healthy Living Is To Never Skip A Meal!
A Huge Fan Of Biryani, Malaika Arora Khan's Secret To A Healthy Living Is To Never Skip A Meal! Malaika Arora Khan - pop her name and only the sexiest image of hers comes to mind. The smoking hot Bollywood actress is nothing less than an idol when it comes to living a healthy lifestyle. Because Khan is not only fit, she is freakin' fit! In her latest interview with Vogue, Khan describes how she "lives for biryani". The fitness freak never misses a meal, nor does she ever diet. If she wants cake, she will have it. She simply knows how to work out a healthy body (and booty!) but her fitness regime is anything but simple. The actress does Pilates, weight training, dancing - you name it and she's probably doing it as we speak! One of her latest achievements includes finishing a Bootcamp where she felt she could "kick a man's ass". Khan also geared up for one of the magazine's health challenges where she completed a 12 km hike. "I couldn’t believe it when I hit the peak!" she exclaimed. And ask her what her 'fashion high' is and pat comes the reply: "I am hip-heavy, so when I get into a pair of skinny jeans it feels great." *bows to the goddess*

Malaika Arora Khan - pop her name and only the sexiest image of hers comes to mind. The smoking hot Bollywood actress is nothing less than an idol when it comes to living a healthy lifestyle. Because Khan is not only fit, she is freakin' fit!

MTV India

In her latest interview with Vogue, Khan describes how she "lives for biryani". The fitness freak never misses a meal, nor does she ever diet. If she wants cake, she will have it. She simply knows how to work out a healthy body (and booty!) but her fitness regime is anything but simple.

Instagram

The actress does Pilates, weight training, dancing - you name it and she's probably doing it as we speak! One of her latest achievements includes finishing a Bootcamp where she felt she could "kick a man's ass".

Instagram

Khan also geared up for one of the magazine's health challenges where she completed a 12 km hike.

"I couldn’t believe it when I hit the peak!" she exclaimed.

Vogue

And ask her what her 'fashion high' is and pat comes the reply: "I am hip-heavy, so when I get into a pair of skinny jeans it feels great."

*bows to the goddess*