Shia LaBeouf gets in fight with troll on day 3 of his 4-year art project
Shia LaBeouf gets in fight with troll on day 3 of his 4-year art project
The trolls. They're here. Apparently Shia LaBeouf had very (read: unreasonably) high hopes for the integrity of his latest piece of performance art , a 4-year-long livestream set up outside NYC's Museum of the Moving Image for people to chant "he will not divide us" to their heart's content. Initiated on Inauguration Day, the piece is meant to be a rallying point for anti-Trump protesters. SEE ALSO: It's time to form your own pussy posse Naturally, as all things do when the internet is involved, it's not going as planned. Members of the 4Chan thread /pol/ first rallied together virtually, then IRL, to sabotage the message of the project. Trolls have been visiting the site of the stream and sneaking in messages of the alt-right, white supremacy, and Pepe the frog , a meme somehow associated with both of those things. Mr. LaBeouf shouting down a white supremacist earlier. This thing has been a fascinating watch so far. #HeWillNotDivideUs  pic.twitter.com/i0J6oq3BLt — murta (@murtaman) January 22, 2017 Shia can be seen getting in a counter-protester's face, shouting "he will not divide us" in retaliation. There have been dozens of counter-protesters visiting the site of the livestream since it began. Presumably they're getting the attention they wanted as Shia's notoriously short fuse continues to go off in a very public way. But at least he's trying to defend us against these white nationalist trolls. BONUS: Castle 3-D printed in concrete spells new era in architecture

The trolls. They're here.

Apparently Shia LaBeouf had very (read: unreasonably) high hopes for the integrity of his latest piece of performance art, a 4-year-long livestream set up outside NYC's Museum of the Moving Image for people to chant "he will not divide us" to their heart's content. Initiated on Inauguration Day, the piece is meant to be a rallying point for anti-Trump protesters.

Naturally, as all things do when the internet is involved, it's not going as planned.

Members of the 4Chan thread /pol/ first rallied together virtually, then IRL, to sabotage the message of the project. Trolls have been visiting the site of the stream and sneaking in messages of the alt-right, white supremacy, and Pepe the frog, a meme somehow associated with both of those things.

Mr. LaBeouf shouting down a white supremacist earlier. This thing has been a fascinating watch so far. #HeWillNotDivideUs pic.twitter.com/i0J6oq3BLt — murta (@murtaman) January 22, 2017

Shia can be seen getting in a counter-protester's face, shouting "he will not divide us" in retaliation. There have been dozens of counter-protesters visiting the site of the livestream since it began.

Presumably they're getting the attention they wanted as Shia's notoriously short fuse continues to go off in a very public way. But at least he's trying to defend us against these white nationalist trolls.