Tom Brady's massive coat stole the show during the AFC championship game
Tom Brady's massive coat stole the show during the AFC championship game
#Deflategate has a new clothing line. New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is known for a lot of things: his killer throwing arm, his four Super Bowl wins and, of course, deflategate . But, after last night's AFC championship game, Brady is now known as the internet's favorite meme thanks to his bench-sitting fashion statement. SEE ALSO: Donald Trump won't let go of his supposed Tom Brady bromance Image:  NFL Sure, his ridiculous coat is only to ensure that his precious body stays warm during the cold game, but that doesn't make it look any less dumb. And the internet gladly took the bait. "we're not sure how they got the deflated footballs onto the field without being noticed" pic.twitter.com/6bcI64kYGl — ryan van bibber (@justRVB) January 23, 2017  Is that Gore-Tex? pic.twitter.com/L3aRV9iDm9 — Sports Illustrated (@SInow) January 23, 2017 pic.twitter.com/r5xsCHACuG — SB Nation (@SBNation) January 23, 2017 pic.twitter.com/1IeLPlAjCQ — Complex Sports (@ComplexSports) January 23, 2017 #Inflategate  pic.twitter.com/zsety7X5DD — Matt Ufford (@mattufford) January 23, 2017 SB Nation seemed to have solved the case of what's under Brady's coat. So THAT's what's keeping Tom warm pic.twitter.com/KoROzhZmkf — SB Nation (@SBNation) January 23, 2017 Congrats to Brady, the Patriots and that coat for their victory. BONUS: Every time Tom Brady talked about balls

#Deflategate has a new clothing line.

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is known for a lot of things: his killer throwing arm, his four Super Bowl wins and, of course, deflategate. But, after last night's AFC championship game, Brady is now known as the internet's favorite meme thanks to his bench-sitting fashion statement.

Image: NFL

Sure, his ridiculous coat is only to ensure that his precious body stays warm during the cold game, but that doesn't make it look any less dumb.

And the internet gladly took the bait.

"we're not sure how they got the deflated footballs onto the field without being noticed" pic.twitter.com/6bcI64kYGl — ryan van bibber (@justRVB) January 23, 2017

SB Nation seemed to have solved the case of what's under Brady's coat.

So THAT's what's keeping Tom warm pic.twitter.com/KoROzhZmkf — SB Nation (@SBNation) January 23, 2017

Congrats to Brady, the Patriots and that coat for their victory.