Is THIS what the iPhone 8 will look like?
Is THIS what the iPhone 8 will look like?


It has been rumoured to have a dual-lens camera, augmented reality, a curved screen and even facial recognition - but what will these features look like in the iPhone 8?

New concept images have revealed what one artist thinks Apple's next phone might look like.

The concept is based on a succession of reports suggesting Apple is abandoning its aluminum casing in favour of a return to a glass and stainless steel design.

New concept images have revealed what one artist thinks Apple's next phone might look like. The concept is based on a succession of reports suggesting Apple is abandoning its aluminum casing in favour of a return to a glass and stainless steel design

SPECS SHOWN IN THE CONCEPT IMAGES - High quality Gorrilla Glass - Liquid metal frame - 6.9mm thin - 5.8 inch OLED edge to edge display - Wireless Charging - Touch ID built into display - Second touch sensitive display - Smart connector - 10nm A11 chip - Dual 12mp wide angle + telephoto lens - 3D camera technology

Apple's iPhone 8 may still be months away, but rumours about the highly anticipated smartphone are flooding the internet.

Recent rumours from an 'upstream supply chain' suggest the Cupertino company is ditching the aluminium back cover for its next model.

Instead, it will be designed with a stainless steel forging process that brings together two reinforced glass panels supported by a metal frame.

It was first reported by Chinese newspaper DigiTimes, which revealed the new components would be ordered from Foxconn electronics US-based Jabil – firms who worked with Apple in creating the iPhone 4, reports 9To5Mac.

Now Industrial Design student Imran Taylor from Manila, the Philippines, has released pictures of what this might look like.

Mr Taylor describes his concept as: 'Bringing back the classic iPhone 4 design language, with glass on the front and back constructed with a NEW liquid metal frame.'

The concept shows a high quality Gorrilla Glass with a liquid metal frame, Mr Taylor says.

The rear of the phone shows the glass back with a vertical dual-camera arrangement that has been suggested in previous reports.

The pictures also show an iPad Pro-style Smart Connector that has not been rumoured.

The new camera will have the ability to take augmented reality photos and parallax photos, and measure distance and volume, design student Imran Taylor says

Functions of the lower bezel, a word used to describe the circular button, display, shown, could vary among different apps

Other features appear to include some form of facial/gesture recognition supported by a new laser sensor and an infrared sensor mounted near the front-facing camera. It could also come in gold, rose gold and white (shown right)

IPHONE 8 RUMOURS Several rumors have been circulating about the iPhone 8, and suggest the next device may have: - Dual-lens 3D camera - Augmented reality to generate real-time views of surroundings - Curved glass casing - Plastic OLED screen - Wireless charging - A folding element - New 5 inch (12.7 centimeter) and 5.8 inch (14.7 centimeter) model, which will have a wraparound, OLED screen - 5.8 inch will be designed with the Touch ID finger print sensor 'under the glass and in the active display area.' - A new 'pure white' model - Aluminum back will be replaced with two reinforced glass panes and a metal frame in the middle - Facial recognition

A rumour that was leaked by Cowen and Company earlier this month suggests this year's tenth anniversary handset will have 'some form of facial/gesture recognition'.

Written by Timothy Arcuri, a Cowen and Company analyst, the note was firest reported by Kif Leswing with Business Insider.

'Other features appear to include some form of facial/gesture recognition supported by a new laser sensor and an infrared sensor mounted near the front-facing camera and, as expected, should also finally include wireless charging,' Arcuri wrote.

Sources also speculated there will be a new 5.8 inch model, complete with a 'wraparound' OLED screen with a Touch ID fingerprint sensor underneath the glass.

The lower display notifies and provides quick access to apps/notifications when the screen is off, Imran Taylor says

Recent rumours from an 'upstream supply chain' suggest the Cupertino company is ditching the aluminium back cover for its next model

The concept images also show what the iPhone 8 would look like if it was just 0.27 inches (6.9mm) thin