Fifth Harmony, Nick Jonas & Carly Rae Jepsen to Perform at NHL All-Star Game
Fifth Harmony, Nick Jonas & Carly Rae Jepsen to Perform at NHL All-Star Game
Fifth Harmony, Nick Jonas & Carly Rae Jepsen to Perform at NHL All-Star Game  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  Fifth Harmony , Nick Jonas and Carly Rae Jepsen will all perform at the Honda NHL All-Star Game on Sunday at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, has learned. The 62nd annual event kicks off at 12:30 p.m. PT on Sunday, Jan. 29, and will air on NBC. Jepsen will kick things off with the Canadian national anthem before the game, and Fifth Harmony will follow with "The Star-Spangled Banner." Jonas, meanwhile, will perform during the game's second intermission.  "We are pleased with the incredible lineup of entertainment that we put together for the 2017 Honda NHL All-Star Weekend," said Steve Mayer, NHL chief content officer and executive vice president. "The All-Star Weekend will feature three days of can’t-miss events, including the NHL100 celebration on Friday night, in a weekend where hockey takes over Hollywood. We are excited for Nick Jonas, Fifth Harmony and Carly Rae Jepsen’s All-Star Game performances for our fans in L.A and those watching around the world." This will be Fifth Harmony's second performance without Camila Cabello, following their debut as a quartet at the People's Choice Awards last week. The NHL All-Star Weekend will also include the NHL100 gala hosted by actor Jon Hamm honoring the league's 100 greatest athletes of all time with guest appearances by John Legend and Robin Thicke , who will honor his late father Alan Thicke, as well as John Ondrasik of Five for Fighting . This will be the third time Los Angeles will host the NHL All Star Game and the first since 2002.

Fifth Harmony, Nick Jonas & Carly Rae Jepsen to Perform at NHL All-Star Game

Fifth Harmony, Nick Jonas and Carly Rae Jepsen will all perform at the Honda NHL All-Star Game on Sunday at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, Billboard has learned.

The 62nd annual event kicks off at 12:30 p.m. PT on Sunday, Jan. 29, and will air on NBC.

Jepsen will kick things off with the Canadian national anthem before the game, and Fifth Harmony will follow with "The Star-Spangled Banner." Jonas, meanwhile, will perform during the game's second intermission.

"We are pleased with the incredible lineup of entertainment that we put together for the 2017 Honda NHL All-Star Weekend," said Steve Mayer, NHL chief content officer and executive vice president. "The All-Star Weekend will feature three days of can’t-miss events, including the NHL100 celebration on Friday night, in a weekend where hockey takes over Hollywood. We are excited for Nick Jonas, Fifth Harmony and Carly Rae Jepsen’s All-Star Game performances for our fans in L.A and those watching around the world."

This will be Fifth Harmony's second performance without Camila Cabello, following their debut as a quartet at the People's Choice Awards last week.

The NHL All-Star Weekend will also include the NHL100 gala hosted by actor Jon Hamm honoring the league's 100 greatest athletes of all time with guest appearances by John Legend and Robin Thicke, who will honor his late father Alan Thicke, as well as John Ondrasik of Five for Fighting.

This will be the third time Los Angeles will host the NHL All Star Game and the first since 2002.