Britain's 20 most 'crap' towns - and why we love them
Britain's 20 most 'crap' towns - and why we love them
Britain's 20 most 'crap' towns - and why we love them Milton Keynes celebrates its 50th birthday today. Often derided, the planned town actually has plenty going for it, according to Teresa Machan , including a top-notch music venue, a hip skater culture, and some terrific family attractions. Here are more places dismissed by the "Crap Towns" series of books - with a few reasons to love them. First holder of the unwanted title "Britain's crappiest town", Hull's star is on the rise and it is 2017's UK City of Culture. Gavin Haines found much to enjoy on a recent trip, including the Ferens Art Gallery, a rejuvenated dock, and the city's culinary pride and joy: the pattie. He wrote: "A battered and deep-fried sphere of mashed potato, seasoned with sage, these little slabs of cholesterol are the source of much pride in the city and are usually served with chips; fried potato, with a side of fried potato, then. Hardly the cornerstone of a healthy diet, granted, but like Hull itself – a friendly and unpretentious city – I really rather enjoyed it."

Milton Keynes celebrates its 50th birthday today. Often derided, the planned town actually has plenty going for it, according to Teresa Machan, including a top-notch music venue, a hip skater culture, and some terrific family attractions.

Here are more places dismissed by the "Crap Towns" series of books - with a few reasons to love them.

1. Hull

First holder of the unwanted title "Britain's crappiest town", Hull's star is on the rise and it is 2017's UK City of Culture. Gavin Haines found much to enjoy on a recent trip, including the Ferens Art Gallery, a rejuvenated dock, and the city's culinary pride and joy: the pattie.

He wrote: "A battered and deep-fried sphere of mashed potato, seasoned with sage, these little slabs of cholesterol are the source of much pride in the city and are usually served with chips; fried potato, with a side of fried potato, then. Hardly the cornerstone of a healthy diet, granted, but like Hull itself – a friendly and unpretentious city – I really rather enjoyed it."