Stephen Colbert to Host the 2017 Emmy Awards
Stephen Colbert to Host the 2017 Emmy Awards 
Shares               They don't even take place until September, but the 2017 Primetime Emmy Awards have a host -- Stephen Colbert . It'll be Colbert's first time hosting the telecast, which will air live from Los Angeles on Sunday, Sept. 17, on CBS. Colbert noted -- in a nod to White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer's comments about how many people watched the inauguration -- that "this will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the globe.”       "He's a formidable showman and we are delighted to begin working with him and the entire CBS team," added the chairman and CEO of the Television Academy, which hands out the Emmys. Colbert is now the host of CBS' "Late Show With Stephen Colbert." His previous show, Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report," won multiple Emmys. Jimmy Kimmel last hosted the awards show in 2016, when it aired on ABC. Shares                  Stephen Colbert to Host the 2017 Emmy Awards   John Lennon and Yoko Ono Biopic on the Way   Why Beyonce May Have Used Instagram to Announce Her Pregnancy   Former 'Bachelor' Ben Higgins Slams Rumors of Split From Lauren Bushnell   Beyonce Dazzles in Pregnancy Photo Shoot   The Best of the Super Bowl LI Commercials Released So Far   Grammys Executive Producer Responds to Boycott Rumors   Beyonce's Thoughts on Motherhood Since Welcoming Blue Ivy   What's New on Netflix, Amazon, iTunes, Hulu in February   Roger Goodell 'Comfortable' With 'Deflategate' Outcome Before Super Bowl LI   Trump Slams 'Dumb' Refugee Deal With Australia   White House: Trump Comments on Mexico 'Lighthearted'   Trump Tweets That Iran Is 'On Notice' for Firing Missile   Proposed Trump Order Could Curtail LGBT Rights

They don't even take place until September, but the 2017 Primetime Emmy Awards have a host -- Stephen Colbert.

It'll be Colbert's first time hosting the telecast, which will air live from Los Angeles on Sunday, Sept. 17, on CBS.

Colbert noted -- in a nod to White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer's comments about how many people watched the inauguration -- that "this will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the globe.”

"He's a formidable showman and we are delighted to begin working with him and the entire CBS team," added the chairman and CEO of the Television Academy, which hands out the Emmys.

Colbert is now the host of CBS' "Late Show With Stephen Colbert." His previous show, Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report," won multiple Emmys.

Jimmy Kimmel last hosted the awards show in 2016, when it aired on ABC.