Here Are All of Ed Sheeran's Videos: Vote for Your Favorite
Here Are All of Ed Sheeran's Videos: Vote for Your Favorite
Here Are All of Ed Sheeran's Videos: Vote for Your Favorite  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In the nearly seven years since Ed Sheeran released his first official music video ("The A Team," April 2010), the British singer-songwriter has garnered more than 3 billion views on just the videos he has put out. Clearly fans love the visuals Sheeran creates for his songs, and that seems to be continuing with the coming-of-age vid for the single "Castle on the Hill" he released Monday (Jan. 23). But that's not the only autobiographical video in Sheeran's catalog -- "Photograph" gave fans a glimpse of adorable young Ed, featuring shots of Sheeran from his childhood and teenage years as an aspiring musician. Although a look-alike actor plays teenage Sheeran in his latest visual, is "Castle" still better than "Photograph"? What about Rupert Grint's cameo in "Lego House" or Pharrell 's in "Sing"? And how could Sheeran top his own awe-inspiring ballroom dancing in "Thinking Out Loud"?  Watch all of Sheeran's videos (presented below in chronological order from oldest to newest), and tell us which video you think is the best by voting in the poll at the end. Vote for your favorite Sheeran video below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In the nearly seven years since Ed Sheeran released his first official music video ("The A Team," April 2010), the British singer-songwriter has garnered more than 3 billion views on just the official videos he has put out. Clearly fans love the visuals Sheeran creates for his songs, and that seems to be continuing with the coming-of-age vid for the single "Castle on the Hill" he released Monday (Jan. 23).

But that's not the only autobiographical video in Sheeran's catalog -- "Photograph" gave fans a glimpse of adorable young Ed, featuring shots of Sheeran from his childhood and teenage years as an aspiring musician. Although a look-alike actor plays teenage Sheeran in his latest visual, is "Castle" still better than "Photograph"? What about Rupert Grint's cameo in "Lego House" or Pharrell's in "Sing"? And how could Sheeran top his own awe-inspiring ballroom dancing in "Thinking Out Loud"?

Watch all of Sheeran's videos (presented below in chronological order from oldest to newest), and tell us which video you think is the best by voting in the poll at the end.

"The A Team"

"You Need Me, I Don't Need You"

"Lego House"

"Drunk"

"Small Bump"

"Give Me Love"

"One"

"All of the Stars"

"Sing"

"Don't"

"Thinking Out Loud"

"Bloodstream"

"Photograph"

"Castle on the Hill"



Vote for your favorite Sheeran video below: