Which Famous Couple Are Actually Your Parents?
Which Famous Couple Are Actually Your Parents?
Which Famous Couple Are Actually Your Parents?  You got:
								
								Your parents are David and Victoria Beckham!  Oh la la! It’s tough having such gorgeous parents, but someone’s gotta have ‘em.     You got:
								
								Your parents are Chrissy Teigen and John Legend!  Your parents are SO. MUCH. FUN. All your friends from school are dying to come over to meet them. Lucky!     You got:
								
								Your parents are Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi!  They’re the best around! Ellen brings home so much free swag from work — you’ve got the most AMAZING toy room!!!!!     You got:
								
								Your parents are Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka!  There’s nothing better than coming home from school to these two. Love them!     You got:
								
								Your parents are Jay Z and Beyoncé!  They are so famous, it’s crazy. The major perk is you get to travel the world throughout the year. How fun is that?     You got:
								
								Your parents are Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds!  They are so in love that sometimes seeing them kiss makes you wanna puke. (GROSS!) That being said, you wouldn’t have it any other way!    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   Literally Every Time Meryl Streep Has Been Nominated...    Here's A Breakdown Of Meryl Streep's Record-Setting...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

You got: Your parents are David and Victoria Beckham! Oh la la! It’s tough having such gorgeous parents, but someone’s gotta have ‘em. Anthony Harvey / Getty

You got: Your parents are Chrissy Teigen and John Legend! Your parents are SO. MUCH. FUN. All your friends from school are dying to come over to meet them. Lucky! Frazer Harrison / Getty

You got: Your parents are Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi! They’re the best around! Ellen brings home so much free swag from work — you’ve got the most AMAZING toy room!!!!! Christopher Polk / Getty

You got: Your parents are Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka! There’s nothing better than coming home from school to these two. Love them! Dimitrios Kambouris / Getty

You got: Your parents are Jay Z and Beyoncé! They are so famous, it’s crazy. The major perk is you get to travel the world throughout the year. How fun is that? Jonathan Leibson / Getty