Hogwarts gets a magically realistic rendering in body paint timelapse
Hogwarts gets a magically realistic rendering in body paint timelapse
Over the years, people have gone to extreme lengths to display their love for the magical world created by J.K. Rowling in the series. Fans have inked themselves in themed tattoos , dressed in extravagant costumes , and some have even got their pets involved . But the dedication of Brisbane-based Australian makeup artist, Georgina Ryland , really takes the cake. SEE ALSO: J.K. Rowling has a cutting response to Trump's quote about 'heroes' The -head has daubed herself in an incredible, almost photorealistic version of the Hogwarts castle, documenting the process in a timelapse video. ⚡️ hogwarts ⚡️ . Thank you everyone for your unbelievably kind words on this paint - it means a lot and I've read every single one of them ❤️ if you missed it, check out the timelapse for clicking the link in the bio ☺️ Featuring: ⚡️ @mehronmakeup Paradise Paints in Black, White, Teal, Yellow and Orange ⚡️ @inglot_australia 110R, 63, 351, 300 Freedom Eyeshadows, HD Foundation, Sparkling Dust 7 ⚡️ @sugarpill Tako, Bulletproof, Mochi, Flamepoint, Buttercupcake ⚡️ @katvondbeauty Lock It Powder Foundation L45, Shade and Light Palette, Trooper Tattoo Liner, Lolita Liquid Lipstick, Monarch Palette Hair is @gooddyeyoung and earrings from a pop up store ✨ #georginaryland #harrypotter #hogwarts A photo posted by Georgina Ryland (@georginaryland) on "I've always been a fan of Harry Potter and I have wanted to paint the castle for a while now," Ryland told over Messenger. "I picked this particular reference image because it is so recognisable and has a very fantastical and magical feel to it." ⚡️ hogwarts ⚡️ . Timelapse/speed paint is now up on YouTube! Link in the bio, go check it out ☺️ Featuring: ⚡️ @mehronmakeup Paradise Paints in Black, White, Teal, Yellow and Orange ⚡️ @inglot_australia 110R, 63, 351, 300 Freedom Eyeshadows, HD Foundation, Sparkling Dust 7 ⚡️ @sugarpill Tako, Bulletproof, Mochi, Flamepoint, Buttercupcake ⚡️ @katvondbeauty Lock It Powder Foundation L45, Shade and Light Palette, Trooper Tattoo Liner, Lolita Liquid Lipstick, Monarch Palette Hair is @gooddyeyoung and earrings from a pop up store Music is Sappheiros - A Tale of Unexplored Worlds via FreeMusicHouse ✨ #georginaryland #harrypotter #hogwarts A video posted by Georgina Ryland (@georginaryland) on Ryland first encountered the books following a recommendation from her dad, and says she has been inspired by them for as long as she's been able to read. Seriously though. How is it possible to get that much detail when you're painting on your own body in reverse? Ten points to Gryffindor! BONUS: Voldemort isn't as terrifying as you think

Over the years, people have gone to extreme lengths to display their love for the magical world created by J.K. Rowling in the Harry Potter series.

Fans have inked themselves in themed tattoos, dressed in extravagant costumes, and some have even got their pets involved.

But the dedication of Brisbane-based Australian makeup artist, Georgina Ryland, really takes the cake.

The Harry Potter-head has daubed herself in an incredible, almost photorealistic version of the Hogwarts castle, documenting the process in a timelapse video.

"I've always been a fan of Harry Potter and I have wanted to paint the castle for a while now," Ryland told Mashable over Messenger.

"I picked this particular reference image because it is so recognisable and has a very fantastical and magical feel to it."

Ryland first encountered the Harry Potter books following a recommendation from her dad, and says she has been inspired by them for as long as she's been able to read.

Seriously though. How is it possible to get that much detail when you're painting on your own body in reverse?

Ten points to Gryffindor!