Kamal Haasan Along With Others Tweeted This Unexplainable Video Of Cop Setting An Auto On Fire
Kamal Haasan Along With Others Tweeted This Unexplainable Video Of Cop Setting An Auto On Fire
Kamal Haasan Along With Others Tweeted This Unexplainable Video Of Cop Setting An Auto On Fire Jallikattu has been a pressing issue for quite some time and it's a shame that even now, weeks after the importunate urgency, we haven't reached a solution. While thousands are protesting against it, waiting for a ban on it, and grieving over the sheer existence,  others, who are larger in numbers are wishing for an approbation. (Also read: Kamal Haasan Tells PETA, Go Ban Bull-Riding In American Rodeos Instead Of Attacking Jallikattu ) What is this. Please explain some one pic.twitter.com/MMpFXHSOVk @ikamalhaasan Thanks A Lot For Posting This ! This Is All Done By Police Only !! Who Is Behind This ? pic.twitter.com/XSMZ52L4fy @ikamalhaasan  pic.twitter.com/t2rlELzo67 @ikamalhaasan Hats off to @CNNnews18 . You guys have showed the truth from very beginning. Never seen the truth in other national channels. pic.twitter.com/BfSIVsOPUS Amid all the tension, a video that aired on several local channels in Chennai is going viral on social media. The video shows a policeman setting fire to an auto-rickshaw, allegedly during today's violence that damaged what had been a lengthy and peaceful campaign supporting Jallikattu. (Also read: As Jallikattu Restarts In Tamil Nadu, Bulls Go On A Rampage, 2 Killed & 129 Hurt ) Thousands of students who camped at Chennai's Marina Beach were ordered to vacate the area as soon as possible and bring it back to a state of normalcy. The police demanded them to leave the spot so that the preparations for Republic Day could start. @ikamalhaasan 😢😢😢 pic.twitter.com/YBB0iC4Uo1 And suddenly, from nowhere, violence broke out, with some students being hit with lathis or batons, and some policemen being targeted with stones and slippers. Hours later, police vans were set on fire. The cops said it was "outsiders" who had "infiltrated" the area to cause trouble, and that students were not to blame.

Jallikattu has been a pressing issue for quite some time and it's a shame that even now, weeks after the importunate urgency, we haven't reached a solution.

While thousands are protesting against it, waiting for a ban on it, and grieving over the sheer existence, others, who are larger in numbers are wishing for an approbation.

(Also read: Kamal Haasan Tells PETA, Go Ban Bull-Riding In American Rodeos Instead Of Attacking Jallikattu)

What is this. Please explain some one pic.twitter.com/MMpFXHSOVk — Kamal Haasan (@ikamalhaasan) January 23, 2017

@ikamalhaasan Thanks A Lot For Posting This ! This Is All Done By Police Only !! Who Is Behind This ?

pic.twitter.com/XSMZ52L4fy — ViGnEsH HaRi ™ (@vigneshhari1) January 23, 2017

@ikamalhaasan Hats off to @CNNnews18. You guys have showed the truth from very beginning. Never seen the truth in other national channels. pic.twitter.com/BfSIVsOPUS — sachin tendulkar (@Sachin_rt_10) January 23, 2017

Amid all the tension, a video that aired on several local channels in Chennai is going viral on social media.

The video shows a policeman setting fire to an auto-rickshaw, allegedly during today's violence that damaged what had been a lengthy and peaceful campaign supporting Jallikattu.

(Also read: As Jallikattu Restarts In Tamil Nadu, Bulls Go On A Rampage, 2 Killed & 129 Hurt)

Thousands of students who camped at Chennai's Marina Beach were ordered to vacate the area as soon as possible and bring it back to a state of normalcy. The police demanded them to leave the spot so that the preparations for Republic Day could start.

And suddenly, from nowhere, violence broke out, with some students being hit with lathis or batons, and some policemen being targeted with stones and slippers. Hours later, police vans were set on fire. The cops said it was "outsiders" who had "infiltrated" the area to cause trouble, and that students were not to blame.

(Also read: Problem Isn’t Alone With Jallikattu In India, US And Spain Too Are Debating 'Animal Cruelty')

But what we see in the video is totally different from what we are told.

The apex court had banned the sport under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in 2014 and the upliftment has since remained a pressing issue. However, only yesterday, an ordinance has been passed by the Tamil Nadu government to promulgated and facilitate the conduct of jallikattu!