Brexit decision won't prevent UK from leaving EU, but it may put the brakes on



Brexit decision won't prevent UK from leaving EU, but it may put the brakes on

Updated

This decision won't stop Brexit, but it may well delay it.

Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May had planned to trigger Article 50 (the mechanism by which a country begins the process of leaving the European Union) by the end of March.

That timeline was set out when Ms May thought she could use what's called the "royal prerogative", which allows a UK government to make certain decisions without a vote of the parliament.

The Supreme Court decision has killed off that strategy. Now the Government must take a bill to the Parliament and hope enough MPs vote in favour of it.

The big question now is, what will the Opposition do?

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn says his party will not "frustrate the process for invoking Article 50". But he has made it clear that the Opposition will also try to amend any bill. That could delay the process.

One of Labour's key demands is likely to be that the Government should publish a white paper on its plans for Brexit.

The House of Lords will be even more unpredictable. The Government has no majority in the Upper House and it is stacked with 178 crossbench peers with no party affiliations.

Labour and the Lords will not want to delay the process for too long. The Government and the right-wing tabloids will hold their feet to the fire if they frustrate the will of the people as expressed in June's referendum result.

It's expected the Government will now introduce a minimalist bill to Parliament that will make it more difficult to amend.

There was some good news for the Government in this decision.

The court unanimously decided the devolved parliaments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland would not have to vote to trigger Article 50.

Given Scotland's clear opposition to leaving the EU, that could have severely derailed the Brexit process.

Topics: world-politics, business-economics-and-finance, united-kingdom, european-union

First posted