Here's the Full List of 2017 Academy Awards Nominees
Here's the Full List of 2017 Academy Awards Nominees
From unexpected selections to disappointing snubs, the Academy Awards nominations never fail to provide plenty of surprises; however, this year’s nominees will be announced a little bit differently than previous ones. Rather than conduct the announcement ceremony in front of a live audience, 2017’s contenders will be revealed via a global live stream as well as local broadcasters. Oscar winners and nominees Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson , Emmanuel Lubezki, Jason Reitman, and Ken Watanabe will join Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs to announce which films will be recognized at the 89th Academy Awards. Just like every other year, there’s already a strong list of front runners, including , and, of course, , which walked away with a record-breaking seven honors at this year’s Golden Globes . Find out which films nabbed the major nominations via the livestream above and keep checking this post for live updates. The 89th Academy Awards will be hosted by Jimmy Kimmel on Feb. 26. Mahershala Ali, Jeff Bridges, Lucas Hedges, Dev Patel, Michael Shannon,

From unexpected selections to disappointing snubs, the Academy Awards nominations never fail to provide plenty of surprises; however, this year’s nominees will be announced a little bit differently than previous ones. Rather than conduct the announcement ceremony in front of a live audience, 2017’s contenders will be revealed via a global live stream as well as local broadcasters.

Oscar winners and nominees Jennifer Hudson, Brie Larson, Emmanuel Lubezki, Jason Reitman, and Ken Watanabe will join Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs to announce which films will be recognized at the 89th Academy Awards. Just like every other year, there’s already a strong list of front runners, including Manchester by the Sea, Fences, Moonlight, Arrival, and, of course, La La Land, which walked away with a record-breaking seven honors at this year’s Golden Globes.

Find out which films nabbed the major nominations via the livestream above and keep checking this post for live updates. The 89th Academy Awards will be hosted by Jimmy Kimmel on Feb. 26.

Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role

Mahershala Ali, Moonlight

Jeff Bridges, Hell or High Water

Lucas Hedges, Manchester by the Sea

Dev Patel, Lion

Michael Shannon, Nocturnal Animals

Best Cinematography

Arrival

La La Land

Lion

Moonlight

Silence

Best Documentary Feature