Air Force Airlifts Fuel Tankers To Manipur That Is Facing Blockade For Nearly Three Months
Air Force Airlifts Fuel Tankers To Manipur That Is Facing Blockade For Nearly Three Months
Air Force Airlifts Fuel Tankers To Manipur That Is Facing Blockade For Nearly Three Months In a much needed relief to the northeastern state of Manipur which has been virtually paralyzed due to an indefinite blockade, some 96,000 liters of fuel has reached the state in the past 24 hours, courtesy the Indian Air Force (IAF). The Indian Oil Corporation tankers were airlifted from Guwahati's Borjhar Air Force station and flown into Imphal on the US Made C-17 Globemaster, the biggest transporter aircrafts at the possession of the IAF. The C-17 Globemasters which can carry 75 tons in a single sortie flew 3 sorties to Imphal with two tankers each. The fuel supply is expected to provide some relief to the people of Manipur, which is going through an acute shortage of essential goods, owing to the United Naga Council (UNC) economic blockade which began in November 2016. The Nagas in Manipur are protesting against the creation of additional districts. Naga groups said the two districts, one in Sadar Hills and another in Jiribam were created without consulting them. They have blocked the two main highways – NH-2 and NH 53- connecting the border state to rest of India. With the state going to polls on March 4 and 8, and the UNC hinting at intensifying their blockade the suffering of Manipuri people, who are forced to pay highly inflated prices to an already dwindling supply of essentials is far from over.

In a much needed relief to the northeastern state of Manipur which has been virtually paralyzed due to an indefinite blockade, some 96,000 liters of fuel has reached the state in the past 24 hours, courtesy the Indian Air Force (IAF).

IAF/ twitter

The Indian Oil Corporation tankers were airlifted from Guwahati's Borjhar Air Force station and flown into Imphal on the US Made C-17 Globemaster, the biggest transporter aircrafts at the possession of the IAF.

The C-17 Globemasters which can carry 75 tons in a single sortie flew 3 sorties to Imphal with two tankers each.

IAF/ Twitter

The fuel supply is expected to provide some relief to the people of Manipur, which is going through an acute shortage of essential goods, owing to the United Naga Council (UNC) economic blockade which began in November 2016.

IAF/ twitter

The Nagas in Manipur are protesting against the creation of additional districts.

Naga groups said the two districts, one in Sadar Hills and another in Jiribam were created without consulting them. They have blocked the two main highways – NH-2 and NH 53- connecting the border state to rest of India.

PTI

With the state going to polls on March 4 and 8, and the UNC hinting at intensifying their blockade the suffering of Manipuri people, who are forced to pay highly inflated prices to an already dwindling supply of essentials is far from over.