IBMVoice: Here Are The Top Five Trends To Watch For In The Internet Of Things During 2017
IBMVoice: Here Are The Top Five Trends To Watch For In The Internet Of Things During 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  IBM       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Last year was a transformative and exciting year for the Internet of Things as we saw almost every industry invest in the IoT. Consumer products -- such as wearables and connected electronics -- make up a large part of the market, but IDC estimates that more than 80 percent of IoT spending through 2020 will be on such things as B2B applications. The Internet of Things will also create a self-learning environment that will drive digital disruption in the physical world. The IoT will allow new business models to emerge, along with new work processes, productivity improvements, cost containment and better customer experiences. Here are the top five trends in the IoT in 2017: Connecting things with unique IP addresses has been possible for over a decade, but the commoditization of sensors, processors and memory now makes it viable to make everyday things not only connected, but also intelligent. Cognitive computing is increasing the amount of data to enable sensors to diagnose and adapt to their environment without the need for human intervention. Another huge advantage of cognitive IoT is the ability to combine multiple data streams that can identify patterns and give much more context than would be otherwise available. Although making sense out of dark data is paving the way to revolutionary ideas and technologies, it requires a cognitive approach that can effectively handle increasingly large inputs, while generating meaningful output. Programmable systems thrive on prescribed scenarios using predictable data, and their rigidity can limit their usefulness when addressing the ambiguity and uncertainty of IoT data. Cognitive systems, however, are not explicitly programmed. Rather, they learn from interactions with people and from experiences with their environment. In doing so, they become able to keep pace with the complexity of the Internet of things, identifying data correlations that would otherwise go unnoticed. As we rely on connected devices, security must be considered. All participants in IoT ecosystems have a responsibility for the security of their devices, data and solutions. This includes device manufacturers, application developers, consumers and businesses. According to our latest POV on cognitive security for the Internet of Things , IoT security requires a multi-layered approach. From a device point of view, security should be considered at the blueprint level that starts with design and development and keeps hardware, software and data secure through their entire life. The same approach applies to any security analyst or operations personnel responsible for IoT solutions. To enable the full potential of the IoT, security challenges must be addressed through a combination of interoperability and good design. Take a proactive, not reactive approach in designing security features that will result in better products and solutions. is playing a major part in the IoT by enhancing security, making transactions more seamless and creating efficiencies in the supply chain by building trust, reducing costs and accelerating transactions. Blockchain for IoT can transform the way business transactions are conducted globally through a trustworthy environment to automate and encode business transactions, while preserving privacy and security for all parties in the transaction. IBM Watson IoT Blockchain uses blockchain capabilities and enables information from the IoT devices to be used in transactions. or application programming interfaces, serve as a bridge to connect useful information and plentiful data to the Internet of Things, making the IoT useful by connecting many disparate things into a powerful network. Internet of Things devices would be useless without APIs. By exposing data that enables multiple devices to be connected, APIs provide an interface between the "Internet" and the "things" to reveal previously unseen possibilities. In the year to come, APIs will play a key role in monetizing the Internet of Things. that have the right elements can provide tremendous value by linking the IoT endpoints to the applications and analytics needed to generate business outcomes. An IoT platform must connect devices, collect data, handle thousands of vendors, dozens of standards and must be able to scale to millions of devices sending billions of messages. To deliver value beyond the basics, it must add cognitive computing, security, privacy and insight, among other things. With these capabilities and the supporting technology advancements, an IoT platform becomes the means for a company to transform its business. The recently published report, "The Forrester Wave™: IoT Software Platforms, Q4 2016" assesses how the leading IoT platforms stack up based on current offerings, strategy and market presence. While these five trends may play a major role in IoT in 2017 and beyond, new developments that we aren’t currently thinking about will likely emerge in the next year: the IoT is evolving so rapidly that there is always something new.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Chris O'Connor, IBM

Last year was a transformative and exciting year for the Internet of Things as we saw almost every industry invest in the IoT.

Consumer products -- such as wearables and connected electronics -- make up a large part of the market, but IDC estimates that more than 80 percent of IoT spending through 2020 will be on such things as B2B applications.

The Internet of Things will also create a self-learning environment that will drive digital disruption in the physical world. The IoT will allow new business models to emerge, along with new work processes, productivity improvements, cost containment and better customer experiences.

Here are the top five trends in the IoT in 2017:

1) Cognitive Computing: Connecting things with unique IP addresses has been possible for over a decade, but the commoditization of sensors, processors and memory now makes it viable to make everyday things not only connected, but also intelligent.

Cognitive computing is increasing the amount of data to enable sensors to diagnose and adapt to their environment without the need for human intervention. Another huge advantage of cognitive IoT is the ability to combine multiple data streams that can identify patterns and give much more context than would be otherwise available.

Although making sense out of dark data is paving the way to revolutionary ideas and technologies, it requires a cognitive approach that can effectively handle increasingly large inputs, while generating meaningful output. Programmable systems thrive on prescribed scenarios using predictable data, and their rigidity can limit their usefulness when addressing the ambiguity and uncertainty of IoT data.

Cognitive systems, however, are not explicitly programmed. Rather, they learn from interactions with people and from experiences with their environment. In doing so, they become able to keep pace with the complexity of the Internet of things, identifying data correlations that would otherwise go unnoticed.

2) Security: As we rely on connected devices, security must be considered. All participants in IoT ecosystems have a responsibility for the security of their devices, data and solutions. This includes device manufacturers, application developers, consumers and businesses.

According to our latest POV on cognitive security for the Internet of Things, IoT security requires a multi-layered approach. From a device point of view, security should be considered at the blueprint level that starts with design and development and keeps hardware, software and data secure through their entire life.

The same approach applies to any security analyst or operations personnel responsible for IoT solutions. To enable the full potential of the IoT, security challenges must be addressed through a combination of interoperability and good design. Take a proactive, not reactive approach in designing security features that will result in better products and solutions.

3) Blockchain is playing a major part in the IoT by enhancing security, making transactions more seamless and creating efficiencies in the supply chain by building trust, reducing costs and accelerating transactions.

Blockchain for IoT can transform the way business transactions are conducted globally through a trustworthy environment to automate and encode business transactions, while preserving privacy and security for all parties in the transaction. IBM Watson IoT Blockchain uses blockchain capabilities and enables information from the IoT devices to be used in transactions.

4) APIs, or application programming interfaces, serve as a bridge to connect useful information and plentiful data to the Internet of Things, making the IoT useful by connecting many disparate things into a powerful network.

Internet of Things devices would be useless without APIs. By exposing data that enables multiple devices to be connected, APIs provide an interface between the "Internet" and the "things" to reveal previously unseen possibilities. In the year to come, APIs will play a key role in monetizing the Internet of Things.

5) Platforms that have the right elements can provide tremendous value by linking the IoT endpoints to the applications and analytics needed to generate business outcomes.

An IoT platform must connect devices, collect data, handle thousands of vendors, dozens of standards and must be able to scale to millions of devices sending billions of messages. To deliver value beyond the basics, it must add cognitive computing, security, privacy and insight, among other things. With these capabilities and the supporting technology advancements, an IoT platform becomes the means for a company to transform its business.

The recently published report, "The Forrester Wave™: IoT Software Platforms, Q4 2016" assesses how the leading IoT platforms stack up based on current offerings, strategy and market presence.

While these five trends may play a major role in IoT in 2017 and beyond, new developments that we aren’t currently thinking about will likely emerge in the next year: the IoT is evolving so rapidly that there is always something new.

Tweet this:

Check out the top 5 drivers of #innovation in the #IoT in 2017 @Forbes

Chris O'Connor is General Manager of IBM Watson IoT Offerings.

Learn about the new era of business at ibm.com/outthink, and experience the IBM Cloud at InterConnect 2017.

A version of this story ran on IBM's Internet of Things blog on Jan. 3rd.