The 50 best young footballers in Italy

, , , Franco Ficetola, Mark Neale and Emmet Gates    hen Paul Pogba arrived at Juventus in 2012 he was a brash and raw 19-year-old. He had bags of promise but hadn’t even begun to fulfil it. The Frenchman left Italy last summer a complete midfielder, with the intelligence and work ethic to match his undoubted skill. At 23 years of age, he became the most expensive player in football history when Manchester United paid £89.3m to re-sign him. Pogba’s story is special but there are similar ones being told throughout Italian football. Historically, Serie A has been viewed as an old, or older, man’s league. However, in recent seasons the competition has been punctuated by a refreshing youthfulness. Perhaps forced by the financial dominance of the Premier League to innovate, Italian clubs are turning more and more towards younger players. Serie A is a gateway for youngsters from around the world, a place to mature tactically and grow as a player in a competitive, high-quality footballing environment. If you’re looking to find out more about football’s future, Italy is the best place to start. We at The Gentleman Ultra write about, analyse and photograph all that is good about . Consequently, we bring you Grande 50. Part scout report, part celebration; our aim was to profile 50 of the finest young talents on the peninsula at this moment in time. While the players featured vary from established first-team members to hot prospects, they were all were born on or after 1 January 1995. Keita Baldé Diao, 21, Lazio, Senegal Kicked out of Barcelona’s youth team for putting an ice cube in a team-mate’s bed, Keita Balde Diao has gradually reinvigorated his career with Lazio following his €300,000 move to Italy in the summer of 2011. The 21-year-old broke into the first team with a series of exciting individual displays in the 2013-14 campaign, but it wasn’t until this term that he nailed down a regular starting place. Previously dogged by inconsistency and a lack of end product, Keita has been one of Lazio’s most effective attacking players since Simone Inzaghi was appointed head coach on a permanent basis. Considering Inzaghi spent his first six years of coaching in the club’s youth ranks it is perhaps unsurprising to see him getting the best from his younger talent – of which there is plenty – and Keita, with five goals and two assists on Serie A duty, has been much improved under the former striker. With a potent blend of raw pace and remarkable dribbling skill, the Senegal international is tricky for defenders in one-on-one situations. He enjoys cutting in from the left flank, a movement that often allows him to make use of his quick feet and set up opportunities for one-two combinations with team-mates, crosses across the penalty area or, if possible, a shot. Gabriel Barbosa, 20, Inter, Brazil The 20-year-old forward arrived in Milan as the “new Neymar” but, like so many who have gone before him, he has not found the hype a bonus and has until now remained an enigma. He has been given few chances to sparkle under two different coaches and Inter fans have only been able to see momentary glimpses of his talent. “Gabigol” joined Santos at the age of eight, scoring 600 goals in the youth leagues to earn his nickname. He was deeply embedded in the traditions and culture of Santos, his beloved hometown club, and the question was asked if he had left for Italy too soon. Was he too young; was he too much of a hometown boy? The Brazilian is slowly being integrated into the club, though Inter manager Stefano Pioli believes his cavalier style, one festooned with tricks and flicks, may suit Brazil but isn’t enough for Serie A. If he can learn tactical discipline while maintaining his fearless approach, he could set the world on fire. Nicolò Barella, 19, Cagliari, Italy Born and bred in Sardinia’s capital, Nicolò Barella’s career has been coloured in shades of red and blue. After beginning his footballing education at the academy of icon Gigi Riva, Barella was signed by his boyhood club at the age of eight. He rose through the ranks at Cagliari as a , but has since developed into what Italians refer to as a – a jack of all trades in midfield. His technique, composure, passing vision and dead-ball ability ensures he can operate effectively as a creator, while his dynamism, determination and reading of the game make him an equally efficient midfield destroyer. After a spell on loan at Como in Serie B last season, he played an integral role in Italy’s run to the final of the Under-19 European Championship over the summer and since Cagliari’s return to Serie A, Barella has established himself as a regular in the midfield. His form has attracted the attention of Inter and drawn plaudits from Alessandro Del Piero. Cagliari have one of Italy’s brightest prospects in Barella. Antonio Barreca, 21, Torino, Italy A product of the Torino youth system, Antonio Barreca captained the club’s youth team to the finals of the Campionato Primavera in 2013 before breaking into the first team that same season. Initially sent out on loan to gain regular first-team football, he became an integral part of Cagliari’s Serie B championship winning squad last season. Primarily a left-back but equally as comfortable in a more advanced position, Barreca has great physical and technical assets. His speed, coupled with great anticipation, enables him to both halt opposition attacks and initiate counters quickly. Excellent crossing and short passing complement his high workrate perfectly, making him a regular in the Torino defence so far this season. Comfortable in a back four or wide in a four or five-man midfield, his versatility could bring him to the attentions of his old Toro boss and current Italy head coach Giampiero Ventura in the not too distant future. Lucas Boyé, 20, Torino, Argentina Lucas Boyé arrived at Torino to little fanfare last July, but his impact on the pitch was almost immediate. Just 12 minutes into his competitive debut against Pro Vercelli he scored with a fine half-volley from outside the penalty area, announcing himself to the fans in the most memorable way possible. Unfortunately, the 20-year-old Argentinian hasn’t shone quite so brightly since. Indeed, in 15 league appearances he has failed to find the net once. Evidently he remains a raw prospect, but with exceptionally quick feet, dribbling skill and an eye for the extravagant, he is also an intriguing one. Competition for a place in Torino’s front three is intense. The free-scoring Andrea Belotti holds down the striker role, while Adem Ljajic and Iago Falque provide quality from the flanks. Throw in the speedy Josef Martinez and the recently signed Juan Iturbe (on loan from Roma) and it’s no wonder Boyé is struggling for game time. The ex-River Plate man has an array of tricks up his sleeve, but he may have to marry them with patience if he is to fulfil his potential in Serie A. Davide Calabria, 20, Milan, Italy With Ignazio Abate slowing down and beginning to pick up injuries it can only be a matter of time before Milan look for long-term alternatives at right-back. They may find hope in the form of youth-team graduate Davide Calabria. The 20-year-old is similar to Abate in that he loves to bomb on down the right flank, using his speed and direct running to cause headaches for opposition defences. All of this was on show during last season’s Coppa Italia final against Juventus, where he put in an impressive individual display. This season, Calabria has added tactical nous to his play, starting from a higher position as per new coach Vincenzo Montella’s instructions. However, his growth continues to be stunted by a tendency to blow hot and cold. If he can sort out his inconsistency, Calabria could become the young, reliable, attack-minded right-back Milan desperately need. Federico Chiesa, 19, Fiorentina, Italy Son of the famous Enrico, Federico Chiesa is showing that he is potentially as talented as his father as he wows the crowds in Florence with his versatile style. Promoted to the Viola Primavera in 2014, the 19-year-old has shown he can play across the midfield and has impressed with his fluidity and smooth transition with the ball. He made his debut against Juventus and, despite being substituted at half-time, he showed he could cope under such pressure. He scored his first goal for Fiorentina in the Europa League against Qarabag, a game in which he also managed to pick up two yellow cards and get sent off, thereby showing a different side to his personality. These are early days for the young midfielder but he has the talent to hold down a position in Serie A in the near future. He has not featured for the Azzurri but has been called up recently to the Under-20 squad. Bryan Cristante, 21, Pescara, Italy Big things were expected of Bryan Cristante when he burst on to the scene with Milan. He made his debut as a 16-year-old in the Champions League in December 2011, becoming Milan’s youngest ever player. He made his Serie A debut two years later, replacing Kaká in what many viewed as a symbolic passing of the torch. Several months later he received his first start against Atalanta , and capped off a promising display with a tremendous goal, rifling the ball into the net via the post from outside the box. It looked like a star had been born. However things didn’t quite go to plan. Nine months later he was sold to Benfica, but he never really settled with the Portuguese giants and was loaned back to Italy. He spent the remainder of last season with Palermo before moving to Pescara, where he is slowly winning back the plaudits he earned three years ago. It feels as if he has been around for a long time but he is still only 21 so hopefully he will be able to push on and fulfil his talent. Amadou Diawara, 19, Napoli, Guinea What an amazing 16 months it has been for Amadou Diawara. Plucked from relative obscurity by famed talent-spotter Pantaleo Corvino while playing in San Marino, the 19-year-old Guinean signed for Bologna in the summer of 2015 and produced a breakthrough season, playing 34 times in Roberto Donadoni’s team. Blessed with remarkable composure and dynamism, the youngster’s performances defied his age. Last summer he was snapped up by Napoli as they prepared to battle on three fronts. And, after biding his time, he has played so well that he is on the verge of becoming an automatic starter. A mixture of Yaya Touré and Paul Pogba, the Napoli midfielder is expected to produce big things in the forthcoming years. He’s already well on his way to stardom. Lorenzo Dickmann, 20, Novara, Italy The quintessential modern full-back, Lorenzo Dickmann is just as adept playing in the opposition’s half as he is defending in his own. A product of the Novara youth system, the versatile 20-year-old has already made 80 first-team appearances and has been capped at Under-20 level by Italy. Dickmann has great speed, is also tactically astute enough to know when to use this ability in an attacking sense, and his sound reading of the game enables him to defend as well as attack. Rather than last-ditch tackles, he uses his craft to intercept attempted passes and then uses his pace to launch counter-attacks. Having debuted in Serie B and experienced the rigours of Lega Pro, Dickmann will be keen to experience top-flight football and continue his impressive development. Last season, the man from Milan experienced the pain of losing in the Serie B play-offs with Novara and, despite recently signing a new contract with the club, it remains to be seen if he will reach Serie A with his current club. Federico Dimarco, 19, Empoli (on loan from Inter), Italy What is it they say about buses? You wait for one and then two come along at once? Well, Inter find themselves in that exciting position when it comes to left-backs. Frederico Dimarco has just as much potential as Senna Miangue in this position, yet he is a completely different player in style and stature. At only 5ft 8in, he does not have the physical presence of Miangue, but he is perhaps more technical and he is lightening quick. His style would be well suited to the English game – he distributes quickly and looks to drive forward. This does not mean he is tactically unaware, nor does it mean he is rash; he constantly wants to receive the ball and maraud up the field, but he manages the game well. He is also a tough tackler and is remarkably apt in the air for someone of his height. Dimarco is currently on loan at Empoli , where he has added to his sole appearance and the 15 outings he acquired at Ascoli. At only 19 years of age, he has a bright career ahead, whether that be with Inter or elsewhere. Assane Dioussé, 19, Empoli, Senegal Last summer Empoli once again lost their finest talent. Coach Marco Giampaolo left for Sampdoria , while Leandro Paredes returned to Roma and midfielder Piotr Zielinski joined Napoli. Reinforcements were sought immediately, though the Tuscan club already had someone lined up to fill in the deep-lying playmaker position. Assane Dioussé made his debut in August 2015 against Chievo, but was unable to dislodge the precise Paredes last term. This campaign, however, he has made 16 appearances, the majority of which have come as a starter. A sound passer with unerring composure even when under direct pressure, the 19-year-old Senegalese has the raw quality to follow Paredes and Mirko Valdifiori in providing both creativity and an incisive touch in midfield. Gianluigi Donnarumma, 17, Milan, Italy The rise of 17-year-old goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma from youth player to key first-team member was stunningly quick. Following shaky performances from Diego Lopez, Donnarumma was thrown into Milan’s lineup for a clash with Sassuolo by former coach Sinisa Mihajlovic in 2015. It was an inspired decision. He didn’t keep a clean sheet on his first outing, but Donnarumma has worked wonders ever since. There were times last season, such as the away defeat to Verona and the home draw with Atalanta, where his reflex saves, commanding presence and composure under constant bombardment ensured a degree of respectability for Milan – and he has continued to prove a vital figure this term. On the opening day of this campaign, he thwarted a last-gasp penalty and denied Torino an equaliser. And he made a similarly acrobatic stop to secure victory over Juventus in October. He’ll be a teenager for a while yet, but Donnarumma is no prospect. He’s one of the best goalkeepers in Serie A and, with two caps to his name, he’s the heir to Gianluigi Buffon’s throne in the national team. Godfred Donsah, 20, Bologna, Ghana At just 20 years of age Godfred Donsah, who was once dubbed “the new Michael Essien”, has already amassed close to 50 top-flight appearances. The Ghanaian’s performances at Cagliari during the 2014-15 season caught the attentions of clubs such as Chelsea, Juventus and Manchester City, even though the Sardinians were eventually relegated. He ultimately moved to Bologna. Capable of playing deeper in a midfield three, as a conventional central midfielder in a two or even as an emergency right-back, Donsah’s tireless effort is backed up by excellent technical ability. Rarely caught out of position, he displays a tactical intelligence that belies his tender years. This nous gives him the ability to play deeper but still affect the game in more advanced areas of the pitch with his short accurate passing. An injury-hit start to this season hampered the youngster after a positive 2015-16 campaign and possibly cost him a place in Ghana’s squad for the Africa Cup of Nations. But, with his work ethic and undoubted talent, it will not be long before that first senior international appearance arrives. Seko Fofana, 21, Udinese, France Seko Fofana is quickly winning the plaudits with some dominant displays in his debut season on the peninsula with Udinese . Signed last summer from Bastia, the former Manchester City youth player has adapted well to life in Italy. A midfielder in a similar mould to Amadou Diawara and Franck Kessie, Fofana is a blend of power and technical prowess. An example of what he brings to the team was seen in the December fixture away to Atalanta where, receiving the ball on the periphery of the opposition penalty area, he curled the ball beautifully with his right instep into the far corner in a surprise 3-1 victory over Gian Piero Gasperini’s high flyers. The 21-year-old has already scored four goals from midfield, more than his last two seasons combined. It is only a matter of time before one of the bigger clubs in the league begin to sniff around the Frenchman. But, for his future development, he would be well advised to stay in northeast Italy for at least another season. Gerson, 19, Roma, Brazil Gerson is one of the latest and most refined products of the Brazilian football school, having arrived at Roma last summer from Fluminense. His season thus far hasn’t gone as well as expected for two reasons. Firstly, he’s still too slow for the Italian game. Secondly, coach Luciano Spalletti sees him as a defensive midfielder, whereas he played mostly as an offensive midfielder in Brazil, and he has yet to settle into the new position. However, within his Roma contract there exists a clause regarding a bonus should he ever win the Ballon d’Or, which says a lot about Gerson’s talent. If inspired, he can open the way to goal for team-mates. His left foot is precise and his mind is gifted with an uncommon vision. “Gerson’s not ready, he has to wait,” Spalletti argued last August. But things are slowly improving for the player known as “the Brazilian Pogba” and, as he gathers minutes, he comes closer to fulfilling his great potential. Assane Gnoukouri, 20, Inter, Ivory Coast The 20-year-old Ivorian was part of the Marseille youth system but was dropped in December of 2013. From there, he moved to Italy to play for newly established club Altovicentino in the lower leagues. Fortune then smiled on the Gnoukouri family in the summer of 2014, as Assane and his brother Zate Wilfried Demoya were signed to Inter’s Primavera side. Assane eventually broke into the senior team under Roberto Mancini and stood out in the Milan derby of 2015. The young midfielder did not just go about his business with consummate ease, but ran proceedings in the centre of the pitch. His combination play with Mateo Kovacic was outstanding – the duo looked like they had played together for seasons. Gnoukouri’s relaxed running and superb vision enabled him to move in and out of space, always offering his team-mates a new option. His hunger to get the ball was refreshing (which is why it is hard to see how he has not been noticed by Pioli) and his quick turns and simple distribution had a huge effect on the rest of the team. Despite this excellent performance, he has been given few chances since and has become another victim of Inter’s reluctance to youth. A loan move away from San Siro may now be on the cards. Alberto Grassi, 20, Atalanta (on loan from Napoli), Italy When Napoli picked Alberto Grassi up from Atalanta a year ago, supporters were proud of the purchase. Technical, clever, elegant in his movements and very promising, the 20-year-old midfielder had displayed a vast array of qualities in the first half of last season, when he became a regular at Atalanta. Unfortunately, Napoli fans were never given the chance to see the player at work after he suffered a severe injury on his first day training with his new club. The knee surgery he underwent prevented him from playing until last summer, when Napoli decided to loan Grassi back to Atalanta, an environment he’s familiar with and where he should have opportunities to recover quickly from his injury problems. The strategy seems fruitful for now, with the youngster slowly regaining confidence and making five appearances. Grassi’s growth is encouraging and, if things keep going this way, next summer Napoli may have a midfielder who can be Jorginho, Allan and Amadou Diawara all rolled into one. Moise Kean, 16, Juventus, Italy Moise Kean became the youngest player to represent Juventus in Serie A and the Champions League in November. In the process he became the first player born in the 2000s to play in both competitions. Born in Vercelli to Ivorian parents, Kean has been talked about as a future star for some time. His scoring record at youth level is astonishing and he has already played for the Italy Under-15 and Under-17 sides. Blessed with a dominating physique and blistering pace, he resembles Mario Balotelli in many ways, not least his hairstyle, and videos of him easily brushing off challenges from defenders on YouTube are aplenty. Kean’s brother could be seen in tears following Moise’s league debut against Pescara , when he replaced Mario Mandzukic for the last six minutes. in the stadium were almost willing every player to pass the ball to Kean, to see what the much-hyped youngster could do. Injuries to other attackers worked in his favour, but now Marko Pjaca and Paulo Dybala have returned to the squad his chances will be limited. The don’t have the best record of promoting young players – Paul Pogba and Claudio Marchisio aside – in the last decade. Mino Raiola is his agent, so Kean’s future will be interesting to say the least. Franck Kessié, 20, Atalanta, Ivory Coast Blessed with outstanding power and speed, Franck Kessié has all the tools to be a world class midfielder. The Ivorian has been one of the revelations of the season with Atalanta and has reportedly been subject to a bid from Chelsea. After spending last season on loan at Cesena, where he bagged four goals from 38 games in Serie B, Kessie has become a central cog in Atalanta’s unexpected success this term. He’s scored six goals and can be seen all over the pitch, breaking up opposition attacks and orchestrating Atalanta’s. The 20-year-old may not be playing for Atalanta beyond next summer but he will make the club a hefty profit. He’s already played 10 games for the Ivory Coast and has the potential to be an African Player of the Year nominee in future. Karol Linetty, 21, Sampdoria, Poland The signing of Linetty was another astute piece of business by Sampdoria. Having made his senior debut for Poland aged just 19, the Lech Poznan youth product had been on the radar of both Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur before he moved to Italy in July 2016. The diminutive central midfielder has adapted seamlessly to the demands of Serie A and slotted straight into the Samp first team. Occupying the left-sided central midfield role in Giampaolo’s 4-4-2 diamond formation, he is constantly on the move, looking to create triangles, exchange slick passes with team-mates and initiate attacks. He is tenacious, industrious and an intelligent operator in possession. These attributes have helped him contribute effectively in both phases of the game. He has produced four assists and ranks in Serie A’s top 10 for most tackles per game (3.1). Perhaps most importantly, Linetty suits the Giampaolo blueprint and while there is still plenty to come from the boyhood Poznan fan, he has already proved himself one of the signings of the season in Italy. Pol Lirola, 19, Sassuolo (on loan from Juventus), Spain Owned by Juventus and currently on loan at Sassuolo, Pol Lirola is one of the most highly regarded talents in Europe. After being spotted by Bianconeri scouts while at Espanyol, the Catalan born right-back enjoyed two successful seasons with Juve’s youth team, where he learned from head coach and Italian World Cup winning full-back, Fabio Grosso. Before the start of the current campaign, it was thought Lirola might be integrated into the Juve first team, but the arrival of Dani Alves ensured the youngster was sent out on loan to gain valuable Serie A experience. Lirola has continued to impress with Sassuolo, holding down a position in Eusebio Di Francesco’s first team, both in Serie A and Europe. Like many modern wingbacks, Lirola relishes getting forward. His pace, incision and dribbling ability make him a potent attacking threat, skills he demonstrated to devastating effect during Sassuolo’s 3-0 victory over Athletic Bilbao in the Europa League earlier this season. Di Francesco says the youngster still has a lot to learn defensively but his positioning and reading of the game are constantly improving. Lirola’s loan spell at Sassuolo is set to expire in June 2018. By that time, Juventus should have a formidable heir to Stephan Lichtsteiner and Alves. Manuel Locatelli, 19, Milan, Italy Manuel Locatelli is the latest Milan academy graduate to break into the starting lineup, following on from fellow Grande 50 members Davide Calabria and Gianluigi Donnarumma. Following the departure of Antonio Nocerino last year he was promoted to the senior squad, but it wasn’t until Vincenzo Montella arrived as head coach last summer that the 19-year-old made an impact in the team, thrust into the spotlight when club captain Riccardo Montolivo picked up a long-term injury on international duty for Italy against Spain. Locatelli rocketed into the headlines with a brace of ludicrous strikes in October. His first came against Sassuolo, where his left-footed effort from outside the box was the equaliser as Milan came back from 3-1 down to win 4-3. His second, the winner in a 1-0 victory over Juventus, was equally stunning – receiving the ball in the inside right channel, he unleashed an unstoppable drive that screamed past Gianluigi Buffon. But, while his goals and celebrations have warmed the heart, his game is more about penetrative passing, astute positioning and dogged tackling from a deep-lying midfield role. Cristiano Lombardi, 21, Lazio, Italy If it’s true that a good start bodes well, Cristiano Lombardi’s time in Serie A should be great. After two loans – one to Trapani in Serie B and one to Ancona in Lega Pro – the striker from Viterbo left a good impression on the new coach Simone Inzaghi during 2016 pre-season, and it was decided he would remain at Lazio. And, on the opening day, away to Atalanta, Lombardi scored one of the four goals that led to his side claiming all three points. Lombardi has now made eight appearances, with Inzaghi putting a great deal of trust in him. Lombardi is a great option for his manager: he can play in every position in the attacking line; he’s fast enough to run down the flanks; he has the requisite technique to play behind a centre-forward; and he dedicates himself to retrieving the ball from opponents. Rolando Mandragora, 19, Juventus, Italy Juventus have made a habit of snapping up the latest burgeoning Italian stars in recent years. Their latest acquisition of this kind is Atalanta’s 22-year-old centre-back Mattia Caldara, who will join them in 2018, though other examples can be found in Daniele Rugani, Stefano Sturaro and Rolando Mandragora. Mandragora is the least experienced of the bunch – he is yet to play for the since signing from Genoa last year. But on the basis of what he has shown with other clubs, the 19-year-old has what it takes to succeed with the reigning Italian champions. Mandragora actually made his debut against Juventus, for Genoa , at the tender age of 17. He put in a composed showing that day and played in a similarly unruffled manner while on loan at Pescara last season. He hasn’t had the chance to truly prove his worth yet, but with positional awareness, clever passing and a smooth left foot, the teenager can’t be far away from his debut in black and white. Josè Mauri, 20, Empoli (on loan from Milan), Italy Josè Mauri’s career has stalled over the last 18 months. The tenacity and dynamism he showed while playing for a struggling Parma team in the 2014-15 season drew interest from some of Italy’s finest clubs. He scored the only goal in a 1-0 win over Juventus and, months later, was announced as a Milan player. The future looked extremely bright. However, his first six months with the were a nightmare and he only made his league debut for the club last March. He showed energy, vigour and an ability to drive forward into dangerous areas but was sent on loan this season to Empoli, where he has once against struggled for playing time. Mauri’s decline in fortunes has been strange, though thankfully there remains plenty of time for the 20-year-old to get his career back on track. Senna Miangue, 19, Inter, Belgium Inter’s 19-year-old left-back has the potential to buck the trend and break through to the first team. While the are notoriously poor at promoting their talented youth team players, Senna Miangue is different. The Belgian moved to Italy in 2013 from Beerschot AC and quickly made his name in the Primavera. His 6ft 3in frame is complemented by a muscular physique and, to top it all off, he is fast and technical. These attributes helped him make his full debut this season against Palermo and he looks set to feature for the first team on a more regular basis. His long-term future could also be strengthened by Inter’s lack of full-backs. The biggest advantage he has over the incumbent bunch is his quality of delivery. This is something for which his team-mates have been criticised, as when the wingers Ivan Perisic and Andrea Candreva look to cut inside, they often lack an overlapping option, which the Belgian could provide. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, 21, Lazio, Serbia Already a world and European champion at youth level with Serbia, and a fulcrum at the centre of Lazio’s midfield, Sergej Milinkovic-Savic is a delightful footballer. Though he learnt his trade at Serbian side FK Vojvodina, Milinkovic-Savic was born in Lleida, and there is an element of Catalan flair in his style of play. Standing at 6ft 3in, he is an imposing presence but lacks for nothing in subtlety and silky skills. He is adept with both feet, balanced and confident in possession; without the ball, he is combative and aggressive. He can beguile as well as bully opponents, making him a versatile player who is comfortable operating as a central midfielder, (half-winger), or . Milinkovic-Savic is an important member of Simone Inzaghi’s squad, and both the club and player recently rubbished rumours linking him with Juventus. But the will not be the only club keeping a careful eye on the Serb prodigy. Leonardo Morosini, 21, Genoa, Italy Leonardo Morosini is the archetypal attacking midfielder with an eye for a goal. A former Inter youth player, he became part of the Brescia academy when his family moved there in 2009. Four years later he made his debut for the club and went on to make a massive impact, with his record of 70 appearances and 14 goals grabbing the attentions of Serie A’s bigger teams. He moved to Genoa earlier this month, despite reported interest from Inter, his former club. Morosini’s speed of thought is matched by quick feet, and his vision combined with superb dribbling skills make him a defender’s nightmare. He has the ability to play deeper in a midfield three or further up the pitch as a second striker, where he can find space and pick out team-mates with his passing. Now a Serie A player and Italy U21 international, his future looks bright for. Four goals and two assists in a struggling Brescia side in the first half of this season show his quality. Making the step up to top-level football should not be a problem for him. Alessandro Murgia, 20, Lazio, Italy An honest face, a plain haircut, great dribbling and a right foot that allows him to score goals “from his house” as they say in Italy when a player shoots from long range: this is Alessandro Murgia, a 20-year-old midfielder from Rome. His many goals scored for Lazio’s youth team didn’t go unnoticed by head coach Simone Inzaghi, who started his coaching career with the club’s youngsters and saw Murgia develop. “My dad enrolled me in a football school quite late,” said Murgia recently. “I was already eight or nine years old. Until then, dad himself was my only coach. I owe it all to Inzaghi. He raised me. He knew how to handle me from every point of view.” Murgia is one of the most interesting prospects in Italian football at the moment and he has already begun to repay his coach’s faith, scoring his first Serie A goal in a draw against Torino. Ádám Nagy, 21, Bologna, Hungary Nagy was one of Hungary’s standout performers at Euro 2016. Initially rejected as a youngster due to his slight frame, Nagy ignored his detractors, moved abroad and developed at an English academy in Spain. The experience served him well and upon returning home, he was signed by current Hungarian champions, Ferencváros TC. His low centre of gravity allows him to evade and shrug off tackles, while his intuition and reading of the game far exceeds his years. As a deep-lying mediano (defensive midfielder), this allows him to offer a protective screen in front of the defence, while his careful and considered passing ability initiates attacks. In effect, he is what Andrea Pirlo would call a ‘thinking player’. These attributes convinced Bologna to invest and since arriving in the summer of 2016, the baby-faced Hungarian has become an integral component of Roberto Donandoni’s midfield. Indeed, the impact and influence Nagy already exerts should not be underestimated. The Hungarian has only failed to start four games in Serie A this season, all of which Bologna lost. Moreover, with Nagy in the side, Bologna have scored 16 and conceded 11, while without him, they have scored one and conceded 14. Read into that what you will. Pietro Pellegri, 15, Genoa, Italy In March 2015, Genoa president Enrico Preziosi made an astonishing claim. “I have the new Messi in my house,” he said, “let’s just hope it doesn’t get to his head.” The prodigy he was referring to is Pietro Pellegri, who was just 14 years old at the time. The parallel was somewhat paradoxical; comparing a teenager to the world’s best player is hardly the best strategy to ensure he stays level-headed. It was also misleading; Pellegri is an out-and-out striker, more in the mould of a Christian Vieri than Messi. But Preziosi’s general meaning was undeniable; Pellegri is a precocious talent. At 15 years and 280 days, his substitute appearance against Torino in December 2016 made him the joint youngest debutant in Serie A history, a record previously and exclusively held for 79 years by ex-Roma forward, Amedeo Amadei. The baby bomber is also a regular in Genoa’s Under 19s, and he is the only player his age to have scored at that level. To date, he has five goals in 10 games, which is impressive for a 15-year-old mixing it with players three or four years older than him. His physique, close control and turn of pace has attracted the attention of Italy’s biggest clubs, and though he has a long road ahead to reach the levels of a striker such as Vieri – let alone Messi – Pellegri is already a record breaker and a super exciting one at that. Lorenzo Pellegrini, 20, Sassuolo, Italy Lorenzo Pellegrini is, hands down, the most interesting young midfielder of the new Italian school. If Roma, who sold Pellegrini to Sassuolo in 2015, want him back at any cost, then the 20-year-old must have something special. Born in Rome in 1996, he was never given a debut in Serie A with the team of his city, but Sassuolo, who carefully analysed his matches with Roma’s youth team, didn’t think twice when they saw the possibility to bring him to Emilia-Romagna. Under the wise guidance of Eusebio Di Francesco, Pellegrini has since grown into a brilliant yet concrete central midfielder. He’s one of those players who makes people buy tickets. With his skills, his Totti-style backheels and his tendency to push on into the box at every possible opportunity, he’s a joy for the eyes. He can also use both left and right foot, invariably to provide assists for team-mates. Pedro Pereira, 18, Sampdoria, Portugal At the end of 2016, Sampdoria were reportedly set to sell Pedro Pereira to Benfica but he remains in Liguria. This is probably because the realise just how great his potential is. Born in Lisbon and brought up at Benfica, Pereira is a full-back whose strong points are timing, vision, technique and agility. When defending, his movements are reminiscent of Kostas Manolas in that he’s faster than most of his opponents, knows how to tackle and often finds himself in the right place. But when attacking he’s different to the Greek centre-back. Pereira may seem clumsy when running, but he’s assured enough to silence rivals with occasional unexpected pieces of skill and, when approaching the byline, he has the quality to put the ball in the box in the proper way. He seems to have found his place as a regular within Sampdoria’s line-up and, as time goes by, more and more clubs will surely notice his strength, if they haven’t done so already. The queue outside club president Massimo Ferrero’s door is likely to grow longer. Joshua Pérez, 18, Fiorentina, USA Towards the end of 2016, an 18-year-old midfielder by the name of Joshua Pérez began to feature regularly on the substitute’s bench for Fiorentina. The American has impressed for the club this season, scoring five goals and setting up four in 13 appearances, and it was that form that led to his senior debut for the club on 28 November, when he made it off the bench away to Inter. Pérez is the nephew of namesake Hugo – a former USA international who made 73 appearances for his country – and the youngster looks to have a huge career in front of him. With great balance and a desire to cut inside from the right into the inside channel, he also seems to have the close control and technical qualities needed to fit into the fluid, high-possession style proselytised by Paulo Sousa. The Portuguese coach has had no problem blooding young players since arriving at Fiorentina, giving opportunities to the likes of Federico Bernardeschi and Federico Chiesa. Pérez could be the next starlet to make a breakthrough. Andrea Petagna, 21, Atalanta, Italy Perhaps it is a curse laid at the feet of both Milan clubs, but they are both guilty of letting their young talents go. Andrea Petagna is undoubtedly a regret for the , who are now forced to watch on as he plays an important part in Atalanta’s impressive season. With three goals in 15 games he has not been prolific, but the work he has put in has shown him to be a workman-like and selfless centre-forward. He has also been recognised by the , where he has made his under-21 debut. Milan promoted him to the first team in 2013, but the 21-year-old was quickly loaned out to Sampdoria, Latina, Vicenza and Ascoli, struggling to impress in the process. Atalanta won his signature in 2016 and the young forward has formed a relationship with Papu Gomez this season. His style is similar to Arsenal’s Olivier Giroud; he is 6ft 2in, strong and good at holding the ball up for his team-mates. He presses well and, while not lethal in the area, he has the potential to increase his tally this season. If he can add a selfishness in front of goal, then Milan may lament his departure even more. Giuseppe Pezzella, 19, Palermo, Italy “Thrown into the fray by Iachini, he showed coldness and tactical discipline. Salah and Maicon were playing on his flank but he never got confused, and even tried to be dangerous.” Those were the words used by last February, some days after Giuseppe Pezzella’s Serie A debut. With an injury to Achraf Lazaar, Palermo coach Giuseppe Iachini could do nothing but rely on the 19-year-old full-back, who performed well despite a 5-0 defeat to Roma. Pezzella was discovered by the Palermo scouts while playing for Monteruscello, a team in his hometown near Naples. In just three years, with great humility and willpower, he went from the Under-17 team to Serie A, showing uncommon dedication, good technique and a left foot more refined than the average Italian full-back, plus a powerful physique (he’s 6ft 1in tall). Many people already compare Pezzella to Milan’s Mattia De Sciglio due to his elegance and ability to play on both flanks and even in midfield if required. But for now he’s just a boy with his feet planted on the ground and his name in many a scout’s notepad. Andrea Pinamonti, 17, Inter, Italy When interviewed after pre-season last summer, the 17-year-old Andrea Pinamonti said: “I never imagined that I would train with great champions like Jovetic, Icardi and Palacio. They are helping me to improve and I want to thank them for that.” The young man was not overawed by the experience and his hard work paid off as he made his debut in December against Sparta Prague in the Europa League. Inter have a player who is “one of their own”. The boy from Trentino models himself on Mauro Icardi and the work he is doing seems to be paying off. His “indescribable” debut in Inter’s terrible Europa League campaign was one of the high points, with Pioli saying: “Pinamonti is very young but has great quality and above all it’s not easy to find a youngster who is so humble, with his head firmly on his shoulders. He’ll have a great future.” Pinamonti’s performances for the Primavera have been positive. He has a single-mindedness about finding the net and is as good in the air as he is on the floor. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that this young man could emulate Icardi – with more humility that is. Marko Pjaca, 21, Juventus, Croatia Dinamo Zagreb is renowned as a hotbed of footballing talent and Juve have signed one of the most highly regarded prospects in Croatia. After bursting on to the European scene in 2014 with a virtuoso hat-trick against Celtic in the Europa League, Marko Pjaca looked destined to play for one of Europe’s elite clubs. Though his playing time in Turin has been limited since his move last summer, Pjaca has already shown glimpses of his immense talent. The speed at which he can dribble and perform tricks is flummoxing and he wields a ferocious right foot. Preferring to play from the left, he is adept at cutting inside to open up spaces for a shot or create an opportunity for his team-mates. His close control allows him to operate and turn in tight spaces, while his movement and runs off the ball tend to be timely and intelligent. In a star-studded Juventus squad, Pjaca will have to stay patient and take his opportunities when they come. But this shouldn’t be a problem for the humble Croatian youngster, who has not forgotten the importance of an unyielding work-ethic or the roots of his success, which is demonstrated by the fact he still sends his wages home to his parents in Croatia. Josip Posavec, 20, Palermo, Croatia When it comes to goalkeeping prospects and Serie A, the first name that springs to mind is Gianluigi Donnarumma, and rightly so – the 17-year-old Milan keeper is an extraordinary talent for his age – but 20-year-old Josip Posavec is also worthy of consideration. While nowhere near Donnarumma’s level, the Croat has established himself as one of the most promising shot-stoppers in Italian football with a number of fine performances for Palermo since joining from Inter Zapresic. He has been tested frequently this term – the have the second-worst defensive record in the league – but hasn’t looked out of his depth. Palermo’s goals conceded column may look poor but this is not Posavec’s fault. Despite the occasional error and flamboyant dives, he has shown off fine reflexes and close-range defiance since his debut in a goalless draw against Bologna last February. Marko Rog, 21, Napoli, Croatia Rog is another player being touted as a future star of Croatian football. Like the aforementioned Pjaca, he is one of the latest talents to emerge at Dinamo Zagreb and, like his compatriot, he moved to Italy after featuring in Croatia’s Euro 2016 campaign. There was great excitement in Naples when Rog was signed, but the fans and expectant president, Aurelio De Laurentiis, were forced to wait until December to see Rog in action in Serie A . Introduced in the last 20 minutes while Napoli were leading Inter 3-0, he immediately charmed the public with some deft touches and tenacious tackles. Rog is versatile, diligent and tactically alert, so he should see more playing time under Maurizio Sarri. He can play in myriad roles, from holding midfielder to the false nine and has even featured on the wing. According to Croatian journalist, Aleksander Holiga, pigeonholing him or drawing comparisons to fellow Croatian midfielders Luka Modric and Marcelo Brozovic is unhelpful. Rog is perhaps more like his Napoli team-mate, Marek Hamsik; an almost ubiquitous presence across the pitch who works assiduously and can pass, tackle, shoot, link the play and move intelligently to find space. Naples seems like the ideal place for Rog to continue his promising rise. Alessio Romagnoli, 22, Milan, Italy It’s not hard to figure out which Italian defensive legend Alessio Romagnoli bases his game on. He has always combined a sophisticated touch with good judgement and defensive positioning and, since joining Milan, choosing the number 13 shirt and growing his hair, he has come as close as he possibly could to emulating his hero, Alessandro Nesta. “Nesta was my idol,” he told last year. However, with his left foot, ability to play on the outside of a back three or four and his propensity for driving forward, the 22-year-old also resembles a younger, less grizzled Giorgio Chiellini. After a tricky debut campaign with Milan in which he was seen as the defensive poster boy, Romagnoli is gradually fulfilling his potential and has also earned caps for Italy. His talent lies not only in the defensive phase, but in his building attacks through passes and attacking the opposition’s defensive structure. Umar Sadiq, 19, Bologna (on loan from Roma), Nigeria One looks at Umar Sadiq and immediately thinks he’s not fit for Serie A. Maybe not even for football in general. This is probably what people used to think of Peter Crouch when he first wore a football shirt, but this didn’t prevent him from scoring plenty of goals. And nor is it stopping Sadiq. Last season, the Nigerian centre-forward’s supremacy was quite embarrassing for the opponents of Roma’s youth team – he scored 14 goals in just nine appearances in the Campionato Primavera and Coppa Italia Primavera, five in nine appearances in the Uefa Youth League, plus two in six games in Serie A. Such impressive numbers speak for themselves. In the summer, Roma decided to loan the 19-year-old to Bologna so he could step out of youth football, where he’s too strong for defenders. Unfortunately he has missed most of the season so far due to an ankle injury but, if the surgery shows positive results, the long-limbed striker will be ready to show everybody his killer instinct remains among the grown-ups. Patrik Schick, 20, Sampdoria, Czech Republic “ ” (“Life is wonderful, when Patrik Schick scores.”) The Sampdoria forward may not wish to copyright a slogan once used as a goal celebration by Lichtenstein’s Mario Frick, but Schick’s promising start to life in Serie A would entitle him to do so. The 20-year-old was signed from Sparta Prague last summer for £3.4m. Since arriving at the , he has scored six goals in 15 appearances, which is all the more impressive when you consider that he has only played a full 90 minutes once. When he does feature, the Czech international is often deployed as a by Samp boss Marco Giampaolo. This suits Schick, allowing him to float between the lines of defence and midfield. He is also happy to drift out wide, especially to the right, where he can cut inside and unleash shots with his devilish left foot. With a languid yet graceful poise, he feints and shimmies past opponents. His height – 6ft 1in – ensures he also carries a substantial aerial threat. Expect to see plenty more from Schick in the coming months. Simone Scuffet, 20, Udinese, Italy At just 17 years of age, Simone Scuffet performed heroics in Udinese’s 1-0 victory over Milan in March 2014. He was deluged with praise and labelled the latest successor to Gianluigi Buffon, a tag that helped turn the heads of many of Europe’s elite clubs. One year later, the young keeper should have been on the rise, but instead found himself benched and hardly featuring. A loan to Como in Serie B soon materialised. Seldom has such a stunning rise been halted so quickly. Shortly before Scuffet’s move to Como, had suggested that Fiorentina had tried to bring in Scuffet on loan, but wanted a buyout clause inserted, which Udinese rejected. Atlético Madrid had also been keen, but their interest cooled after injuries and poor form. The youngster has not been forgotten. He signed a five-year deal with Udinese in 2014 and will have to bide his time – but his chance will come. Stefano Sensi, 21, Sassuolo, Italy Thought of as one of the most technically gifted players to emerge from the peninsula for a while, Stefano Sensi has drawn comparisons with fellow Italian playmakers Andrea Pirlo and Marco Verratti, although the diminutive midfielder likens himself more to Xavi. Sensi honed his skills while playing for San Marino on loan from Cesena before making the jump to first-team duties last season. Cesena went on to make the Serie B play-offs and Sensi won the award for best young player. Great mobility, vision and his ability to distribute with either foot make Sensi a real attacking threat. Playing in front of the defence in a fluid 4-3-3 at Sassuolo, his passing range and eye for a defence-splitting ball cause opponents plenty of problems. Defensively, Sensi has a great interpretation of space and where danger can arrive from, though with his slight frame he lacks the required physicality for hard-hitting tackles. Giovanni Simeone, 21, Genoa, Argentina Being the son of the great Diego Simeone cannot be easy, but Giovanni is doing a good job of distinguishing himself from his father. The 21-year-old has been an instant success story since his arrival at Genoa last August and the chant “ ” echoes around the Marassi Stadium regularly. The former River Plate striker has shown great potential so far this season, scoring six times in his first 15 games. He is hard-working, is not afraid of a tackle – like his father – yet he also possesses an elegance and finesse. Simeone has a big career ahead of him and has proved that he can cut it in Serie A. His brace against Juventus in a 3-1 win over the league leaders last November has been the highlight of his career so far. Milan Skriniar, 21, Sampdoria, Slovakia Tall, quick and athletic, Milan Skriniar has the qualities required to succeed in his position. Signed from MSK Zilina in January 2016, the Slovakia international took time to adjust to the rigours of Serie A and was used sparingly by former Samp boss Vincenzo Montella. When he did play, his inexperience and ingenuity was brutally exposed. On the final day of last season, he conceded a penalty and was consequently sent off in the opening 15 minutes against Juventus, a game Samp eventually lost 5-0. His next appearance was equally disastrous. Skriniar came on against Roma as a late substitute and Edin Dzeko enticed him to dangle a leg in the penalty area. The Bosnian forward duly threw himself to the floor and Francesco Totti converted the last-minute penalty. Samp lost 3-2 and, unsurprisingly, the critics questioned his readiness for Serie A. That he has bounced back and become a regular in Giampaolo’s defence speaks volumes for the youngster’s fortitude. Defensively, his positioning and decision making has improved. But as well as demonstrating his mental resolve, he also boasts quality distribution and impressive technical ability, as evidenced in his 91.7% pass completion rate (the third highest in Serie A). At MSK Zilina, he even took penalties, though Giampaolo has yet to trust him with that responsibility. Lucas Torreira, 20, Sampdoria, Uruguay At first glance, Lucas Torreira doesn’t stand out – literally. At 5ft 6in he has to look up to Gary Medel, one of the shorter defensive midfielders in Serie A. However, while he has his physical limitations, the 20-year-old Uruguayan is one of the most promising players in a league currently fizzing with young talent. After breaking out as part of Pescara’s successful Serie B promotion push last season, Torreira has made the defensive midfield place his own at Sampdoria in 2016-17. He, along with a number of other inexperienced players, impressed in a pre-season friendly defeat to Barcelona, using that match as an opportunity to build a case for more action. Torreira has made more interceptions than any of his team-mates, while his passes per game average is bettered only by Luca Cigarini, a player who has had far less time on the pitch. He is a combative, calculating presser of the ball and a feisty tackler with unrelenting stamina, and he is not lacking from a technical perspective. Indeed, with his control, decision-making and passing, Torreira is an all-round midfield shield. Eloge Koffi Yao, 20, Inter, Ivory Coast Yao is one of the most exciting players to have come out of the Inter youth ranks in recent years. The Ivorian was signed from Parma in 2015 and was given the chance to play regularly while on loan at Crotone last season. The centre-back has a skill set that in time could see him become one of the most influential players in his position in Europe – if the manage his growth correctly. Yao has an athletic physique and, despite only being 5ft 11in, he is strong, fast and has an incredible leap. An old-school defender who does not dive in, he prefers to usher opposing forwards away from goal, using his technical ability and composure. And, once he has the ball, he is not afraid to play out from the back. He has a touch of the old about him, with a style reminiscent of Ivano Blason. High praise indeed, but the potential is there. In a world where good ball-playing central defenders are rare, the sky is the limit for Inter’s 20-year-old Ivorian. Topics  Serie A   European club football   Lazio   Internazionale   Cagliari     Torino   Milan   Fiorentina   Pescara   Napoli   Novara   Empoli   Bologna   Udinese   Roma   Atalanta   Juventus   Sampdoria   Sassuolo   Genoa   Palermo

When Paul Pogba arrived at Juventus in 2012 he was a brash and raw 19-year-old. He had bags of promise but hadn’t even begun to fulfil it. The Frenchman left Italy last summer a complete midfielder, with the intelligence and work ethic to match his undoubted skill. At 23 years of age, he became the most expensive player in football history when Manchester United paid £89.3m to re-sign him.

Pogba’s story is special but there are similar ones being told throughout Italian football. Historically, Serie A has been viewed as an old, or older, man’s league. However, in recent seasons the competition has been punctuated by a refreshing youthfulness. Perhaps forced by the financial dominance of the Premier League to innovate, Italian clubs are turning more and more towards younger players.

Serie A is a gateway for youngsters from around the world, a place to mature tactically and grow as a player in a competitive, high-quality footballing environment. If you’re looking to find out more about football’s future, Italy is the best place to start. We at The Gentleman Ultra write about, analyse and photograph all that is good about calcio. Consequently, we bring you Grande 50. Part scout report, part celebration; our aim was to profile 50 of the finest young talents on the peninsula at this moment in time. While the players featured vary from established first-team members to hot prospects, they were all were born on or after 1 January 1995.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Keita Baldé Diao celebrates after scoring for Lazio against Chievo. Photograph: Paolo Bruno/Getty Images

Kicked out of Barcelona’s youth team for putting an ice cube in a team-mate’s bed, Keita Balde Diao has gradually reinvigorated his career with Lazio following his €300,000 move to Italy in the summer of 2011. The 21-year-old broke into the first team with a series of exciting individual displays in the 2013-14 campaign, but it wasn’t until this term that he nailed down a regular starting place.

Previously dogged by inconsistency and a lack of end product, Keita has been one of Lazio’s most effective attacking players since Simone Inzaghi was appointed head coach on a permanent basis. Considering Inzaghi spent his first six years of coaching in the club’s youth ranks it is perhaps unsurprising to see him getting the best from his younger talent – of which there is plenty – and Keita, with five goals and two assists on Serie A duty, has been much improved under the former striker.

With a potent blend of raw pace and remarkable dribbling skill, the Senegal international is tricky for defenders in one-on-one situations. He enjoys cutting in from the left flank, a movement that often allows him to make use of his quick feet and set up opportunities for one-two combinations with team-mates, crosses across the penalty area or, if possible, a shot.

The 20-year-old forward arrived in Milan as the “new Neymar” but, like so many who have gone before him, he has not found the hype a bonus and has until now remained an enigma. He has been given few chances to sparkle under two different coaches and Inter fans have only been able to see momentary glimpses of his talent.



“Gabigol” joined Santos at the age of eight, scoring 600 goals in the youth leagues to earn his nickname. He was deeply embedded in the traditions and culture of Santos, his beloved hometown club, and the question was asked if he had left for Italy too soon. Was he too young; was he too much of a hometown boy?

The Brazilian is slowly being integrated into the club, though Inter manager Stefano Pioli believes his cavalier style, one festooned with tricks and flicks, may suit Brazil but isn’t enough for Serie A. If he can learn tactical discipline while maintaining his fearless approach, he could set the world on fire.

Born and bred in Sardinia’s capital, Nicolò Barella’s career has been coloured in shades of red and blue. After beginning his footballing education at the academy of icon Gigi Riva, Barella was signed by his boyhood club at the age of eight. He rose through the ranks at Cagliari as a trequartista, but has since developed into what Italians refer to as a tuttocampista – a jack of all trades in midfield.

His technique, composure, passing vision and dead-ball ability ensures he can operate effectively as a creator, while his dynamism, determination and reading of the game make him an equally efficient midfield destroyer. After a spell on loan at Como in Serie B last season, he played an integral role in Italy’s run to the final of the Under-19 European Championship over the summer and since Cagliari’s return to Serie A, Barella has established himself as a regular in the midfield.

His form has attracted the attention of Inter and drawn plaudits from Alessandro Del Piero. Cagliari have one of Italy’s brightest prospects in Barella.

A product of the Torino youth system, Antonio Barreca captained the club’s youth team to the finals of the Campionato Primavera in 2013 before breaking into the first team that same season. Initially sent out on loan to gain regular first-team football, he became an integral part of Cagliari’s Serie B championship winning squad last season.

Primarily a left-back but equally as comfortable in a more advanced position, Barreca has great physical and technical assets. His speed, coupled with great anticipation, enables him to both halt opposition attacks and initiate counters quickly. Excellent crossing and short passing complement his high workrate perfectly, making him a regular in the Torino defence so far this season.

Comfortable in a back four or wide in a four or five-man midfield, his versatility could bring him to the attentions of his old Toro boss and current Italy head coach Giampiero Ventura in the not too distant future.

Lucas Boyé arrived at Torino to little fanfare last July, but his impact on the pitch was almost immediate. Just 12 minutes into his competitive debut against Pro Vercelli he scored with a fine half-volley from outside the penalty area, announcing himself to the fans in the most memorable way possible.

Unfortunately, the 20-year-old Argentinian hasn’t shone quite so brightly since. Indeed, in 15 league appearances he has failed to find the net once. Evidently he remains a raw prospect, but with exceptionally quick feet, dribbling skill and an eye for the extravagant, he is also an intriguing one.

Competition for a place in Torino’s front three is intense. The free-scoring Andrea Belotti holds down the striker role, while Adem Ljajic and Iago Falque provide quality from the flanks. Throw in the speedy Josef Martinez and the recently signed Juan Iturbe (on loan from Roma) and it’s no wonder Boyé is struggling for game time. The ex-River Plate man has an array of tricks up his sleeve, but he may have to marry them with patience if he is to fulfil his potential in Serie A.

With Ignazio Abate slowing down and beginning to pick up injuries it can only be a matter of time before Milan look for long-term alternatives at right-back. They may find hope in the form of youth-team graduate Davide Calabria.

The 20-year-old is similar to Abate in that he loves to bomb on down the right flank, using his speed and direct running to cause headaches for opposition defences. All of this was on show during last season’s Coppa Italia final against Juventus, where he put in an impressive individual display.

This season, Calabria has added tactical nous to his play, starting from a higher position as per new coach Vincenzo Montella’s instructions. However, his growth continues to be stunted by a tendency to blow hot and cold. If he can sort out his inconsistency, Calabria could become the young, reliable, attack-minded right-back Milan desperately need.

Son of the famous Enrico, Federico Chiesa is showing that he is potentially as talented as his father as he wows the crowds in Florence with his versatile style.



Promoted to the Viola Primavera in 2014, the 19-year-old has shown he can play across the midfield and has impressed with his fluidity and smooth transition with the ball. He made his debut against Juventus and, despite being substituted at half-time, he showed he could cope under such pressure.

He scored his first goal for Fiorentina in the Europa League against Qarabag, a game in which he also managed to pick up two yellow cards and get sent off, thereby showing a different side to his personality.

These are early days for the young midfielder but he has the talent to hold down a position in Serie A in the near future. He has not featured for the Azzurri but has been called up recently to the Under-20 squad.

Big things were expected of Bryan Cristante when he burst on to the scene with Milan. He made his debut as a 16-year-old in the Champions League in December 2011, becoming Milan’s youngest ever player. He made his Serie A debut two years later, replacing Kaká in what many viewed as a symbolic passing of the torch.



Several months later he received his first start against Atalanta, and capped off a promising display with a tremendous goal, rifling the ball into the net via the post from outside the box. It looked like a star had been born.

However things didn’t quite go to plan. Nine months later he was sold to Benfica, but he never really settled with the Portuguese giants and was loaned back to Italy. He spent the remainder of last season with Palermo before moving to Pescara, where he is slowly winning back the plaudits he earned three years ago. It feels as if he has been around for a long time but he is still only 21 so hopefully he will be able to push on and fulfil his talent.

What an amazing 16 months it has been for Amadou Diawara. Plucked from relative obscurity by famed talent-spotter Pantaleo Corvino while playing in San Marino, the 19-year-old Guinean signed for Bologna in the summer of 2015 and produced a breakthrough season, playing 34 times in Roberto Donadoni’s team. Blessed with remarkable composure and dynamism, the youngster’s performances defied his age.



Last summer he was snapped up by Napoli as they prepared to battle on three fronts. And, after biding his time, he has played so well that he is on the verge of becoming an automatic starter. A mixture of Yaya Touré and Paul Pogba, the Napoli midfielder is expected to produce big things in the forthcoming years. He’s already well on his way to stardom.

The quintessential modern full-back, Lorenzo Dickmann is just as adept playing in the opposition’s half as he is defending in his own. A product of the Novara youth system, the versatile 20-year-old has already made 80 first-team appearances and has been capped at Under-20 level by Italy.



Dickmann has great speed, is also tactically astute enough to know when to use this ability in an attacking sense, and his sound reading of the game enables him to defend as well as attack. Rather than last-ditch tackles, he uses his craft to intercept attempted passes and then uses his pace to launch counter-attacks.

Having debuted in Serie B and experienced the rigours of Lega Pro, Dickmann will be keen to experience top-flight football and continue his impressive development. Last season, the man from Milan experienced the pain of losing in the Serie B play-offs with Novara and, despite recently signing a new contract with the club, it remains to be seen if he will reach Serie A with his current club.

What is it they say about buses? You wait for one and then two come along at once? Well, Inter find themselves in that exciting position when it comes to left-backs. Frederico Dimarco has just as much potential as Senna Miangue in this position, yet he is a completely different player in style and stature.



At only 5ft 8in, he does not have the physical presence of Miangue, but he is perhaps more technical and he is lightening quick. His style would be well suited to the English game – he distributes quickly and looks to drive forward. This does not mean he is tactically unaware, nor does it mean he is rash; he constantly wants to receive the ball and maraud up the field, but he manages the game well. He is also a tough tackler and is remarkably apt in the air for someone of his height.

Dimarco is currently on loan at Empoli, where he has added to his sole Nerazzurri appearance and the 15 outings he acquired at Ascoli. At only 19 years of age, he has a bright career ahead, whether that be with Inter or elsewhere.

Last summer Empoli once again lost their finest talent. Coach Marco Giampaolo left for Sampdoria, while regista Leandro Paredes returned to Roma and midfielder Piotr Zielinski joined Napoli. Reinforcements were sought immediately, though the Tuscan club already had someone lined up to fill in the deep-lying playmaker position.

Assane Dioussé made his debut in August 2015 against Chievo, but was unable to dislodge the precise Paredes last term. This campaign, however, he has made 16 appearances, the majority of which have come as a starter.

A sound passer with unerring composure even when under direct pressure, the 19-year-old Senegalese has the raw quality to follow Paredes and Mirko Valdifiori in providing both creativity and an incisive touch in midfield.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Milan goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma greets supporters. Photograph: Reuters

The rise of 17-year-old goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma from youth player to key first-team member was stunningly quick. Following shaky performances from Diego Lopez, Donnarumma was thrown into Milan’s lineup for a clash with Sassuolo by former coach Sinisa Mihajlovic in 2015. It was an inspired decision.

He didn’t keep a clean sheet on his first outing, but Donnarumma has worked wonders ever since. There were times last season, such as the away defeat to Verona and the home draw with Atalanta, where his reflex saves, commanding presence and composure under constant bombardment ensured a degree of respectability for Milan – and he has continued to prove a vital figure this term.

On the opening day of this campaign, he thwarted a last-gasp penalty and denied Torino an equaliser. And he made a similarly acrobatic stop to secure victory over Juventus in October. He’ll be a teenager for a while yet, but Donnarumma is no prospect. He’s one of the best goalkeepers in Serie A and, with two caps to his name, he’s the heir to Gianluigi Buffon’s throne in the national team.

At just 20 years of age Godfred Donsah, who was once dubbed “the new Michael Essien”, has already amassed close to 50 top-flight appearances. The Ghanaian’s performances at Cagliari during the 2014-15 season caught the attentions of clubs such as Chelsea, Juventus and Manchester City, even though the Sardinians were eventually relegated. He ultimately moved to Bologna.

Capable of playing deeper in a midfield three, as a conventional central midfielder in a two or even as an emergency right-back, Donsah’s tireless effort is backed up by excellent technical ability. Rarely caught out of position, he displays a tactical intelligence that belies his tender years. This nous gives him the ability to play deeper but still affect the game in more advanced areas of the pitch with his short accurate passing.

An injury-hit start to this season hampered the youngster after a positive 2015-16 campaign and possibly cost him a place in Ghana’s squad for the Africa Cup of Nations. But, with his work ethic and undoubted talent, it will not be long before that first senior international appearance arrives.

Seko Fofana is quickly winning the plaudits with some dominant displays in his debut season on the peninsula with Udinese. Signed last summer from Bastia, the former Manchester City youth player has adapted well to life in Italy. A midfielder in a similar mould to Amadou Diawara and Franck Kessie, Fofana is a blend of power and technical prowess.

An example of what he brings to the team was seen in the December fixture away to Atalanta where, receiving the ball on the periphery of the opposition penalty area, he curled the ball beautifully with his right instep into the far corner in a surprise 3-1 victory over Gian Piero Gasperini’s high flyers.

The 21-year-old has already scored four goals from midfield, more than his last two seasons combined. It is only a matter of time before one of the bigger clubs in the league begin to sniff around the Frenchman. But, for his future development, he would be well advised to stay in northeast Italy for at least another season.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gerson shows off his Roma shirt Photograph: Luciano Rossi/Getty Images

Gerson is one of the latest and most refined products of the Brazilian football school, having arrived at Roma last summer from Fluminense. His season thus far hasn’t gone as well as expected for two reasons. Firstly, he’s still too slow for the Italian game. Secondly, coach Luciano Spalletti sees him as a defensive midfielder, whereas he played mostly as an offensive midfielder in Brazil, and he has yet to settle into the new position.

However, within his Roma contract there exists a clause regarding a bonus should he ever win the Ballon d’Or, which says a lot about Gerson’s talent. If inspired, he can open the way to goal for team-mates. His left foot is precise and his mind is gifted with an uncommon vision.

“Gerson’s not ready, he has to wait,” Spalletti argued last August. But things are slowly improving for the player known as “the Brazilian Pogba” and, as he gathers minutes, he comes closer to fulfilling his great potential.

The 20-year-old Ivorian was part of the Marseille youth system but was dropped in December of 2013. From there, he moved to Italy to play for newly established club Altovicentino in the lower leagues. Fortune then smiled on the Gnoukouri family in the summer of 2014, as Assane and his brother Zate Wilfried Demoya were signed to Inter’s Primavera side.

Assane eventually broke into the senior team under Roberto Mancini and stood out in the Milan derby of 2015. The young midfielder did not just go about his business with consummate ease, but ran proceedings in the centre of the pitch. His combination play with Mateo Kovacic was outstanding – the duo looked like they had played together for seasons. Gnoukouri’s relaxed running and superb vision enabled him to move in and out of space, always offering his team-mates a new option. His hunger to get the ball was refreshing (which is why it is hard to see how he has not been noticed by Pioli) and his quick turns and simple distribution had a huge effect on the rest of the team.

Despite this excellent performance, he has been given few chances since and has become another victim of Inter’s reluctance to youth. A loan move away from San Siro may now be on the cards.

When Napoli picked Alberto Grassi up from Atalanta a year ago, supporters were proud of the purchase. Technical, clever, elegant in his movements and very promising, the 20-year-old midfielder had displayed a vast array of qualities in the first half of last season, when he became a regular at Atalanta. Unfortunately, Napoli fans were never given the chance to see the player at work after he suffered a severe injury on his first day training with his new club.

The knee surgery he underwent prevented him from playing until last summer, when Napoli decided to loan Grassi back to Atalanta, an environment he’s familiar with and where he should have opportunities to recover quickly from his injury problems. The strategy seems fruitful for now, with the youngster slowly regaining confidence and making five appearances.

Grassi’s growth is encouraging and, if things keep going this way, next summer Napoli may have a midfielder who can be Jorginho, Allan and Amadou Diawara all rolled into one.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Moise Kean playing for Juventus against Pescara. Photograph: Marco Bertorello/AFP/Getty Images

Moise Kean became the youngest player to represent Juventus in Serie A and the Champions League in November. In the process he became the first player born in the 2000s to play in both competitions.

Born in Vercelli to Ivorian parents, Kean has been talked about as a future star for some time. His scoring record at youth level is astonishing and he has already played for the Italy Under-15 and Under-17 sides. Blessed with a dominating physique and blistering pace, he resembles Mario Balotelli in many ways, not least his hairstyle, and videos of him easily brushing off challenges from defenders on YouTube are aplenty.

Kean’s brother could be seen in tears following Moise’s league debut against Pescara, when he replaced Mario Mandzukic for the last six minutes. Juventini in the stadium were almost willing every player to pass the ball to Kean, to see what the much-hyped youngster could do.

Injuries to other attackers worked in his favour, but now Marko Pjaca and Paulo Dybala have returned to the squad his chances will be limited. The Bianconeri don’t have the best record of promoting young players – Paul Pogba and Claudio Marchisio aside – in the last decade. Mino Raiola is his agent, so Kean’s future will be interesting to say the least.

Blessed with outstanding power and speed, Franck Kessié has all the tools to be a world class midfielder. The Ivorian has been one of the revelations of the season with Atalanta and has reportedly been subject to a bid from Chelsea.

After spending last season on loan at Cesena, where he bagged four goals from 38 games in Serie B, Kessie has become a central cog in Atalanta’s unexpected success this term. He’s scored six goals and can be seen all over the pitch, breaking up opposition attacks and orchestrating Atalanta’s.

The 20-year-old may not be playing for Atalanta beyond next summer but he will make the club a hefty profit. He’s already played 10 games for the Ivory Coast and has the potential to be an African Player of the Year nominee in future.

The signing of Linetty was another astute piece of business by Sampdoria. Having made his senior debut for Poland aged just 19, the Lech Poznan youth product had been on the radar of both Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur before he moved to Italy in July 2016.

How a Scottish manager working in Wales ended up in charge of Juventus Read more

The diminutive central midfielder has adapted seamlessly to the demands of Serie A and slotted straight into the Samp first team. Occupying the left-sided central midfield role in Giampaolo’s 4-4-2 diamond formation, he is constantly on the move, looking to create triangles, exchange slick passes with team-mates and initiate attacks. He is tenacious, industrious and an intelligent operator in possession. These attributes have helped him contribute effectively in both phases of the game. He has produced four assists and ranks in Serie A’s top 10 for most tackles per game (3.1).

Perhaps most importantly, Linetty suits the Giampaolo blueprint and while there is still plenty to come from the boyhood Poznan fan, he has already proved himself one of the signings of the season in Italy.

Owned by Juventus and currently on loan at Sassuolo, Pol Lirola is one of the most highly regarded talents in Europe. After being spotted by Bianconeri scouts while at Espanyol, the Catalan born right-back enjoyed two successful seasons with Juve’s youth team, where he learned from head coach and Italian World Cup winning full-back, Fabio Grosso. Before the start of the current campaign, it was thought Lirola might be integrated into the Juve first team, but the arrival of Dani Alves ensured the youngster was sent out on loan to gain valuable Serie A experience.

Lirola has continued to impress with Sassuolo, holding down a position in Eusebio Di Francesco’s first team, both in Serie A and Europe. Like many modern wingbacks, Lirola relishes getting forward. His pace, incision and dribbling ability make him a potent attacking threat, skills he demonstrated to devastating effect during Sassuolo’s 3-0 victory over Athletic Bilbao in the Europa League earlier this season.

Di Francesco says the youngster still has a lot to learn defensively but his positioning and reading of the game are constantly improving. Lirola’s loan spell at Sassuolo is set to expire in June 2018. By that time, Juventus should have a formidable heir to Stephan Lichtsteiner and Alves.

Manuel Locatelli is the latest Milan academy graduate to break into the starting lineup, following on from fellow Grande 50 members Davide Calabria and Gianluigi Donnarumma. Following the departure of Antonio Nocerino last year he was promoted to the senior squad, but it wasn’t until Vincenzo Montella arrived as head coach last summer that the 19-year-old made an impact in the team, thrust into the spotlight when club captain Riccardo Montolivo picked up a long-term injury on international duty for Italy against Spain.

Locatelli rocketed into the headlines with a brace of ludicrous strikes in October. His first came against Sassuolo, where his left-footed effort from outside the box was the equaliser as Milan came back from 3-1 down to win 4-3. His second, the winner in a 1-0 victory over Juventus, was equally stunning – receiving the ball in the inside right channel, he unleashed an unstoppable drive that screamed past Gianluigi Buffon.

But, while his goals and celebrations have warmed the heart, his game is more about penetrative passing, astute positioning and dogged tackling from a deep-lying midfield role.

If it’s true that a good start bodes well, Cristiano Lombardi’s time in Serie A should be great. After two loans – one to Trapani in Serie B and one to Ancona in Lega Pro – the striker from Viterbo left a good impression on the new coach Simone Inzaghi during 2016 pre-season, and it was decided he would remain at Lazio. And, on the opening day, away to Atalanta, Lombardi scored one of the four goals that led to his side claiming all three points. Lombardi has now made eight appearances, with Inzaghi putting a great deal of trust in him.

Lombardi is a great option for his manager: he can play in every position in the attacking line; he’s fast enough to run down the flanks; he has the requisite technique to play behind a centre-forward; and he dedicates himself to retrieving the ball from opponents.

Juventus have made a habit of snapping up the latest burgeoning Italian stars in recent years. Their latest acquisition of this kind is Atalanta’s 22-year-old centre-back Mattia Caldara, who will join them in 2018, though other examples can be found in Daniele Rugani, Stefano Sturaro and Rolando Mandragora.

Mandragora is the least experienced of the bunch – he is yet to play for the Bianconeri since signing from Genoa last year. But on the basis of what he has shown with other clubs, the 19-year-old has what it takes to succeed with the reigning Italian champions. Mandragora actually made his debut against Juventus, for Genoa, at the tender age of 17. He put in a composed showing that day and played in a similarly unruffled manner while on loan at Pescara last season.

He hasn’t had the chance to truly prove his worth yet, but with positional awareness, clever passing and a smooth left foot, the teenager can’t be far away from his debut in black and white.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Josè Mauri playing for Empoli against Torino in September 2016. Photograph: Valerio Pennicino/Getty Images

Josè Mauri’s career has stalled over the last 18 months. The tenacity and dynamism he showed while playing for a struggling Parma team in the 2014-15 season drew interest from some of Italy’s finest clubs. He scored the only goal in a 1-0 win over Juventus and, months later, was announced as a Milan player. The future looked extremely bright.

However, his first six months with the Rossoneri were a nightmare and he only made his league debut for the club last March. He showed energy, vigour and an ability to drive forward into dangerous areas but was sent on loan this season to Empoli, where he has once against struggled for playing time.

Mauri’s decline in fortunes has been strange, though thankfully there remains plenty of time for the 20-year-old to get his career back on track.

Inter’s 19-year-old left-back has the potential to buck the trend and break through to the first team. While the Nerazzurri are notoriously poor at promoting their talented youth team players, Senna Miangue is different.



The Belgian moved to Italy in 2013 from Beerschot AC and quickly made his name in the Primavera. His 6ft 3in frame is complemented by a muscular physique and, to top it all off, he is fast and technical. These attributes helped him make his full debut this season against Palermo and he looks set to feature for the first team on a more regular basis.

His long-term future could also be strengthened by Inter’s lack of full-backs. The biggest advantage he has over the incumbent bunch is his quality of delivery. This is something for which his team-mates have been criticised, as when the wingers Ivan Perisic and Andrea Candreva look to cut inside, they often lack an overlapping option, which the Belgian could provide.

Already a world and European champion at youth level with Serbia, and a fulcrum at the centre of Lazio’s midfield, Sergej Milinkovic-Savic is a delightful footballer.

Though he learnt his trade at Serbian side FK Vojvodina, Milinkovic-Savic was born in Lleida, and there is an element of Catalan flair in his style of play. Standing at 6ft 3in, he is an imposing presence but lacks for nothing in subtlety and silky skills. He is adept with both feet, balanced and confident in possession; without the ball, he is combative and aggressive. He can beguile as well as bully opponents, making him a versatile player who is comfortable operating as a central midfielder, mezzala (half-winger), or trequartista.

Milinkovic-Savic is an important member of Simone Inzaghi’s squad, and both the club and player recently rubbished rumours linking him with Juventus. But the Bianconeri will not be the only club keeping a careful eye on the Serb prodigy.

Leonardo Morosini is the archetypal attacking midfielder with an eye for a goal. A former Inter youth player, he became part of the Brescia academy when his family moved there in 2009. Four years later he made his debut for the club and went on to make a massive impact, with his record of 70 appearances and 14 goals grabbing the attentions of Serie A’s bigger teams. He moved to Genoa earlier this month, despite reported interest from Inter, his former club.

Morosini’s speed of thought is matched by quick feet, and his vision combined with superb dribbling skills make him a defender’s nightmare. He has the ability to play deeper in a midfield three or further up the pitch as a second striker, where he can find space and pick out team-mates with his passing.

Now a Serie A player and Italy U21 international, his future looks bright for. Four goals and two assists in a struggling Brescia side in the first half of this season show his quality. Making the step up to top-level football should not be a problem for him.



An honest face, a plain haircut, great dribbling and a right foot that allows him to score goals “from his house” as they say in Italy when a player shoots from long range: this is Alessandro Murgia, a 20-year-old midfielder from Rome. His many goals scored for Lazio’s youth team didn’t go unnoticed by head coach Simone Inzaghi, who started his coaching career with the club’s youngsters and saw Murgia develop.

“My dad enrolled me in a football school quite late,” said Murgia recently. “I was already eight or nine years old. Until then, dad himself was my only coach. I owe it all to Inzaghi. He raised me. He knew how to handle me from every point of view.” Murgia is one of the most interesting prospects in Italian football at the moment and he has already begun to repay his coach’s faith, scoring his first Serie A goal in a draw against Torino.

Nagy was one of Hungary’s standout performers at Euro 2016. Initially rejected as a youngster due to his slight frame, Nagy ignored his detractors, moved abroad and developed at an English academy in Spain. The experience served him well and upon returning home, he was signed by current Hungarian champions, Ferencváros TC. His low centre of gravity allows him to evade and shrug off tackles, while his intuition and reading of the game far exceeds his years. As a deep-lying mediano (defensive midfielder), this allows him to offer a protective screen in front of the defence, while his careful and considered passing ability initiates attacks. In effect, he is what Andrea Pirlo would call a ‘thinking player’.

These attributes convinced Bologna to invest and since arriving in the summer of 2016, the baby-faced Hungarian has become an integral component of Roberto Donandoni’s midfield. Indeed, the impact and influence Nagy already exerts should not be underestimated. The Hungarian has only failed to start four games in Serie A this season, all of which Bologna lost. Moreover, with Nagy in the side, Bologna have scored 16 and conceded 11, while without him, they have scored one and conceded 14. Read into that what you will.

In March 2015, Genoa president Enrico Preziosi made an astonishing claim. “I have the new Messi in my house,” he said, “let’s just hope it doesn’t get to his head.”



The prodigy he was referring to is Pietro Pellegri, who was just 14 years old at the time. The parallel was somewhat paradoxical; comparing a teenager to the world’s best player is hardly the best strategy to ensure he stays level-headed. It was also misleading; Pellegri is an out-and-out striker, more in the mould of a Christian Vieri than Messi. But Preziosi’s general meaning was undeniable; Pellegri is a precocious talent.

At 15 years and 280 days, his substitute appearance against Torino in December 2016 made him the joint youngest debutant in Serie A history, a record previously and exclusively held for 79 years by ex-Roma forward, Amedeo Amadei. The baby bomber is also a regular in Genoa’s Under 19s, and he is the only player his age to have scored at that level. To date, he has five goals in 10 games, which is impressive for a 15-year-old mixing it with players three or four years older than him.

His physique, close control and turn of pace has attracted the attention of Italy’s biggest clubs, and though he has a long road ahead to reach the levels of a striker such as Vieri – let alone Messi – Pellegri is already a record breaker and a super exciting one at that.

Lorenzo Pellegrini is, hands down, the most interesting young midfielder of the new Italian school. If Roma, who sold Pellegrini to Sassuolo in 2015, want him back at any cost, then the 20-year-old must have something special.

Born in Rome in 1996, he was never given a debut in Serie A with the team of his city, but Sassuolo, who carefully analysed his matches with Roma’s youth team, didn’t think twice when they saw the possibility to bring him to Emilia-Romagna. Under the wise guidance of Eusebio Di Francesco, Pellegrini has since grown into a brilliant yet concrete central midfielder.

He’s one of those players who makes people buy tickets. With his skills, his Totti-style backheels and his tendency to push on into the box at every possible opportunity, he’s a joy for the eyes. He can also use both left and right foot, invariably to provide assists for team-mates.

At the end of 2016, Sampdoria were reportedly set to sell Pedro Pereira to Benfica but he remains in Liguria. This is probably because the Blucerchiati realise just how great his potential is.

Born in Lisbon and brought up at Benfica, Pereira is a full-back whose strong points are timing, vision, technique and agility. When defending, his movements are reminiscent of Kostas Manolas in that he’s faster than most of his opponents, knows how to tackle and often finds himself in the right place. But when attacking he’s different to the Greek centre-back.

Pereira may seem clumsy when running, but he’s assured enough to silence rivals with occasional unexpected pieces of skill and, when approaching the byline, he has the quality to put the ball in the box in the proper way.

He seems to have found his place as a regular within Sampdoria’s line-up and, as time goes by, more and more clubs will surely notice his strength, if they haven’t done so already. The queue outside club president Massimo Ferrero’s door is likely to grow longer.

Towards the end of 2016, an 18-year-old midfielder by the name of Joshua Pérez began to feature regularly on the substitute’s bench for Fiorentina. The American has impressed for the club this season, scoring five goals and setting up four in 13 appearances, and it was that form that led to his senior debut for the club on 28 November, when he made it off the bench away to Inter.

Pérez is the nephew of namesake Hugo – a former USA international who made 73 appearances for his country – and the youngster looks to have a huge career in front of him. With great balance and a desire to cut inside from the right into the inside channel, he also seems to have the close control and technical qualities needed to fit into the fluid, high-possession style proselytised by Paulo Sousa.

The Portuguese coach has had no problem blooding young players since arriving at Fiorentina, giving opportunities to the likes of Federico Bernardeschi and Federico Chiesa. Pérez could be the next starlet to make a breakthrough.

Perhaps it is a curse laid at the feet of both Milan clubs, but they are both guilty of letting their young talents go. Andrea Petagna is undoubtedly a regret for the Rossoneri, who are now forced to watch on as he plays an important part in Atalanta’s impressive season.

With three goals in 15 games he has not been prolific, but the work he has put in has shown him to be a workman-like and selfless centre-forward. He has also been recognised by the Azzurri, where he has made his under-21 debut. Milan promoted him to the first team in 2013, but the 21-year-old was quickly loaned out to Sampdoria, Latina, Vicenza and Ascoli, struggling to impress in the process.

Atalanta won his signature in 2016 and the young forward has formed a relationship with Papu Gomez this season. His style is similar to Arsenal’s Olivier Giroud; he is 6ft 2in, strong and good at holding the ball up for his team-mates. He presses well and, while not lethal in the area, he has the potential to increase his tally this season. If he can add a selfishness in front of goal, then Milan may lament his departure even more.

“Thrown into the fray by Iachini, he showed coldness and tactical discipline. Salah and Maicon were playing on his flank but he never got confused, and even tried to be dangerous.” Those were the words used by La Gazzetta dello Sport last February, some days after Giuseppe Pezzella’s Serie A debut. With an injury to Achraf Lazaar, Palermo coach Giuseppe Iachini could do nothing but rely on the 19-year-old full-back, who performed well despite a 5-0 defeat to Roma.

Pezzella was discovered by the Palermo scouts while playing for Monteruscello, a team in his hometown near Naples. In just three years, with great humility and willpower, he went from the Under-17 team to Serie A, showing uncommon dedication, good technique and a left foot more refined than the average Italian full-back, plus a powerful physique (he’s 6ft 1in tall).

Many people already compare Pezzella to Milan’s Mattia De Sciglio due to his elegance and ability to play on both flanks and even in midfield if required. But for now he’s just a boy with his feet planted on the ground and his name in many a scout’s notepad.

When interviewed after pre-season last summer, the 17-year-old Andrea Pinamonti said: “I never imagined that I would train with great champions like Jovetic, Icardi and Palacio. They are helping me to improve and I want to thank them for that.” The young man was not overawed by the experience and his hard work paid off as he made his debut in December against Sparta Prague in the Europa League.

Inter have a player who is “one of their own”. The boy from Trentino models himself on Mauro Icardi and the work he is doing seems to be paying off. His “indescribable” debut in Inter’s terrible Europa League campaign was one of the high points, with Pioli saying: “Pinamonti is very young but has great quality and above all it’s not easy to find a youngster who is so humble, with his head firmly on his shoulders. He’ll have a great future.”

Pinamonti’s performances for the Primavera have been positive. He has a single-mindedness about finding the net and is as good in the air as he is on the floor. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that this young man could emulate Icardi – with more humility that is.

Dinamo Zagreb is renowned as a hotbed of footballing talent and Juve have signed one of the most highly regarded prospects in Croatia.

After bursting on to the European scene in 2014 with a virtuoso hat-trick against Celtic in the Europa League, Marko Pjaca looked destined to play for one of Europe’s elite clubs. Though his playing time in Turin has been limited since his move last summer, Pjaca has already shown glimpses of his immense talent. The speed at which he can dribble and perform tricks is flummoxing and he wields a ferocious right foot. Preferring to play from the left, he is adept at cutting inside to open up spaces for a shot or create an opportunity for his team-mates. His close control allows him to operate and turn in tight spaces, while his movement and runs off the ball tend to be timely and intelligent.

In a star-studded Juventus squad, Pjaca will have to stay patient and take his opportunities when they come. But this shouldn’t be a problem for the humble Croatian youngster, who has not forgotten the importance of an unyielding work-ethic or the roots of his success, which is demonstrated by the fact he still sends his wages home to his parents in Croatia.

When it comes to goalkeeping prospects and Serie A, the first name that springs to mind is Gianluigi Donnarumma, and rightly so – the 17-year-old Milan keeper is an extraordinary talent for his age – but 20-year-old Josip Posavec is also worthy of consideration.

While nowhere near Donnarumma’s level, the Croat has established himself as one of the most promising shot-stoppers in Italian football with a number of fine performances for Palermo since joining from Inter Zapresic. He has been tested frequently this term – the Rosanero have the second-worst defensive record in the league – but hasn’t looked out of his depth.

Palermo’s goals conceded column may look poor but this is not Posavec’s fault. Despite the occasional error and flamboyant dives, he has shown off fine reflexes and close-range defiance since his debut in a goalless draw against Bologna last February.

Rog is another player being touted as a future star of Croatian football.

Like the aforementioned Pjaca, he is one of the latest talents to emerge at Dinamo Zagreb and, like his compatriot, he moved to Italy after featuring in Croatia’s Euro 2016 campaign. There was great excitement in Naples when Rog was signed, but the fans and expectant president, Aurelio De Laurentiis, were forced to wait until December to see Rog in action in Serie A . Introduced in the last 20 minutes while Napoli were leading Inter 3-0, he immediately charmed the public with some deft touches and tenacious tackles.

Rog is versatile, diligent and tactically alert, so he should see more playing time under Maurizio Sarri. He can play in myriad roles, from holding midfielder to the false nine and has even featured on the wing. According to Croatian journalist, Aleksander Holiga, pigeonholing him or drawing comparisons to fellow Croatian midfielders Luka Modric and Marcelo Brozovic is unhelpful. Rog is perhaps more like his Napoli team-mate, Marek Hamsik; an almost ubiquitous presence across the pitch who works assiduously and can pass, tackle, shoot, link the play and move intelligently to find space. Naples seems like the ideal place for Rog to continue his promising rise.

It’s not hard to figure out which Italian defensive legend Alessio Romagnoli bases his game on. He has always combined a sophisticated touch with good judgement and defensive positioning and, since joining Milan, choosing the number 13 shirt and growing his hair, he has come as close as he possibly could to emulating his hero, Alessandro Nesta.

“Nesta was my idol,” he told La Gazzetta dello Sport last year. However, with his left foot, ability to play on the outside of a back three or four and his propensity for driving forward, the 22-year-old also resembles a younger, less grizzled Giorgio Chiellini.

After a tricky debut campaign with Milan in which he was seen as the defensive poster boy, Romagnoli is gradually fulfilling his potential and has also earned caps for Italy. His talent lies not only in the defensive phase, but in his building attacks through passes and attacking the opposition’s defensive structure.

One looks at Umar Sadiq and immediately thinks he’s not fit for Serie A. Maybe not even for football in general. This is probably what people used to think of Peter Crouch when he first wore a football shirt, but this didn’t prevent him from scoring plenty of goals. And nor is it stopping Sadiq.

Last season, the Nigerian centre-forward’s supremacy was quite embarrassing for the opponents of Roma’s youth team – he scored 14 goals in just nine appearances in the Campionato Primavera and Coppa Italia Primavera, five in nine appearances in the Uefa Youth League, plus two in six games in Serie A. Such impressive numbers speak for themselves.

In the summer, Roma decided to loan the 19-year-old to Bologna so he could step out of youth football, where he’s too strong for defenders. Unfortunately he has missed most of the season so far due to an ankle injury but, if the surgery shows positive results, the long-limbed striker will be ready to show everybody his killer instinct remains among the grown-ups.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Patrik Schick in action for Sampdoria against Napoli. Photograph: Francesco Pecoraro/Getty Images

“La vie c’est fantastique, quando segna Patrik Schick.” (“Life is wonderful, when Patrik Schick scores.”) The Sampdoria forward may not wish to copyright a slogan once used as a goal celebration by Lichtenstein’s Mario Frick, but Schick’s promising start to life in Serie A would entitle him to do so.

The 20-year-old was signed from Sparta Prague last summer for £3.4m. Since arriving at the Blucerchiati, he has scored six goals in 15 appearances, which is all the more impressive when you consider that he has only played a full 90 minutes once.

When he does feature, the Czech international is often deployed as a seconda punta by Samp boss Marco Giampaolo. This suits Schick, allowing him to float between the lines of defence and midfield. He is also happy to drift out wide, especially to the right, where he can cut inside and unleash shots with his devilish left foot. With a languid yet graceful poise, he feints and shimmies past opponents. His height – 6ft 1in – ensures he also carries a substantial aerial threat. Expect to see plenty more from Schick in the coming months.

At just 17 years of age, Simone Scuffet performed heroics in Udinese’s 1-0 victory over Milan in March 2014. He was deluged with praise and labelled the latest successor to Gianluigi Buffon, a tag that helped turn the heads of many of Europe’s elite clubs.

One year later, the young keeper should have been on the rise, but instead found himself benched and hardly featuring. A loan to Como in Serie B soon materialised. Seldom has such a stunning rise been halted so quickly.

Shortly before Scuffet’s move to Como, La Gazzetta dello Sport had suggested that Fiorentina had tried to bring in Scuffet on loan, but wanted a buyout clause inserted, which Udinese rejected. Atlético Madrid had also been keen, but their interest cooled after injuries and poor form.

The youngster has not been forgotten. He signed a five-year deal with Udinese in 2014 and will have to bide his time – but his chance will come.

Thought of as one of the most technically gifted players to emerge from the peninsula for a while, Stefano Sensi has drawn comparisons with fellow Italian playmakers Andrea Pirlo and Marco Verratti, although the diminutive midfielder likens himself more to Xavi. Sensi honed his skills while playing for San Marino on loan from Cesena before making the jump to first-team duties last season. Cesena went on to make the Serie B play-offs and Sensi won the award for best young player.

Great mobility, vision and his ability to distribute with either foot make Sensi a real attacking threat. Playing in front of the defence in a fluid 4-3-3 at Sassuolo, his passing range and eye for a defence-splitting ball cause opponents plenty of problems. Defensively, Sensi has a great interpretation of space and where danger can arrive from, though with his slight frame he lacks the required physicality for hard-hitting tackles.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Giovanni Simeone celebrates after scoring against Palermo. Photograph: Tullio M Puglia/Getty Images

Being the son of the great Diego Simeone cannot be easy, but Giovanni is doing a good job of distinguishing himself from his father. The 21-year-old has been an instant success story since his arrival at Genoa last August and the chant “Forza Cholo” echoes around the Marassi Stadium regularly.

The former River Plate striker has shown great potential so far this season, scoring six times in his first 15 games. He is hard-working, is not afraid of a tackle – like his father – yet he also possesses an elegance and finesse. Simeone has a big career ahead of him and has proved that he can cut it in Serie A. His brace against Juventus in a 3-1 win over the league leaders last November has been the highlight of his career so far.

Tall, quick and athletic, Milan Skriniar has the qualities required to succeed in his position.

Signed from MSK Zilina in January 2016, the Slovakia international took time to adjust to the rigours of Serie A and was used sparingly by former Samp boss Vincenzo Montella. When he did play, his inexperience and ingenuity was brutally exposed. On the final day of last season, he conceded a penalty and was consequently sent off in the opening 15 minutes against Juventus, a game Samp eventually lost 5-0. His next appearance was equally disastrous. Skriniar came on against Roma as a late substitute and Edin Dzeko enticed him to dangle a leg in the penalty area. The Bosnian forward duly threw himself to the floor and Francesco Totti converted the last-minute penalty. Samp lost 3-2 and, unsurprisingly, the critics questioned his readiness for Serie A.

That he has bounced back and become a regular in Giampaolo’s defence speaks volumes for the youngster’s fortitude. Defensively, his positioning and decision making has improved. But as well as demonstrating his mental resolve, he also boasts quality distribution and impressive technical ability, as evidenced in his 91.7% pass completion rate (the third highest in Serie A). At MSK Zilina, he even took penalties, though Giampaolo has yet to trust him with that responsibility.

At first glance, Lucas Torreira doesn’t stand out – literally. At 5ft 6in he has to look up to Gary Medel, one of the shorter defensive midfielders in Serie A. However, while he has his physical limitations, the 20-year-old Uruguayan is one of the most promising players in a league currently fizzing with young talent.

After breaking out as part of Pescara’s successful Serie B promotion push last season, Torreira has made the defensive midfield place his own at Sampdoria in 2016-17. He, along with a number of other inexperienced players, impressed in a pre-season friendly defeat to Barcelona, using that match as an opportunity to build a case for more action.

Fiorentina v Juventus: a rivalry stoked by 'theft', Roberto Baggio and machine guns Read more

Torreira has made more interceptions than any of his team-mates, while his passes per game average is bettered only by Luca Cigarini, a player who has had far less time on the pitch. He is a combative, calculating presser of the ball and a feisty tackler with unrelenting stamina, and he is not lacking from a technical perspective. Indeed, with his control, decision-making and passing, Torreira is an all-round midfield shield.

Yao is one of the most exciting players to have come out of the Inter youth ranks in recent years. The Ivorian was signed from Parma in 2015 and was given the chance to play regularly while on loan at Crotone last season. The centre-back has a skill set that in time could see him become one of the most influential players in his position in Europe – if the Nerazzurri manage his growth correctly.

Yao has an athletic physique and, despite only being 5ft 11in, he is strong, fast and has an incredible leap. An old-school defender who does not dive in, he prefers to usher opposing forwards away from goal, using his technical ability and composure. And, once he has the ball, he is not afraid to play out from the back.

He has a touch of the old libero about him, with a style reminiscent of Ivano Blason. High praise indeed, but the potential is there. In a world where good ball-playing central defenders are rare, the sky is the limit for Inter’s 20-year-old Ivorian.

• The Grande 50 appeared first on The Gentleman Ultra

• Follow The Gentleman Ultra on Twitter and Facebook

• Follow Blair Newman, Luca Hodges-Ramon, Richard Hall, Franco Ficetola, Mark Neale and Emmet Gates on Twitter