Azealia Banks Takes Aim at Protesters for Women's March
Azealia Banks Takes Aim at Protesters for Women's March
Azealia Banks Takes Aim at Protesters for Women's March  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Azealia Banks wasn't a fan of the Women's March that took place this past Saturday (Jan. 21) in Washington D.C. and across the country. The 25-year-old rapper criticized the movement on Instagram by questioning the protests against newly-named president Donald Trump. "Why do women fall for these white feminist tricks all the time?," questioned Banks. "Now that some white dude has taken office who simply said something silly about grabbing a p---y, they want to march in the streets under the guise of ‘standing up for human freedoms.'" Banks continued by asking the same protesters where they were last year as African Americans were being gunned down by the police officers. "Where the f--k were they when black folk were getting shot down every day last year?? Why weren't they standing up for human freedoms then?"  Banks has voiced her support of Trump in the past. Last November, she celebrated his victory over Hillary Clinton on Instagram. "I'm f---ing proud as F--K of you," wrote Banks. "I must say that I am TRULY inspired by this and feel deep amounts of vindication. Thanks for letting me know that I'm not crazy (even though I fronted a few times) liberals run hollywood and it's been a COLD WORLD OUT HERE FOR ME AS A TRUMP SUPPORTER." See her posts below. Thoughts #Roommates? -- A photo posted by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Thoughts #Roommates? -- A photo posted by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Soon A photo posted by Azealia Banks (@azealiabanks) on Intersectional feminism only exists in our heads lol. The proof is in the pudding. Feminism only cares about and fights for white women. Feminism is basically white women protecting each other and keeping all other women out. Look at the numbers for that march, look how much power and strength white women have when they join together. White women could save the entire world if they TRULY wanted to but they don't. If Taylor swift said to vogue and told them to give equal opportunity to girls who don't fit the privileged white girl image what do you think would happen? DIVERSITY. If white women were on the front of americas race issue and actively worked to level the playing field - racism would be gone. That's is how much social power white women TRULY have. We don't have true diversity and transparency amongst women as a cornerstone of mainstream feminism because white women don't want it !! They like their power and want to keep it. It's dangerous to involve yourself and consume all these blanket statements about what women need deserve and want because the list of grievances doesn't TRULY represent all women. What a lot of mainstream feminism stands for is dangerous because you have these very privileged and entitled white women speaking on be half of all women and it shouldn't be. A photo posted by Azealia Banks (@azealiabanks) on Last one I promise A photo posted by Azealia Banks (@azealiabanks) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Azealia Banks wasn't a fan of the Women's March that took place this past Saturday (Jan. 21) in Washington D.C. and across the country. The 25-year-old rapper criticized the movement on Instagram by questioning the protests against newly-named president Donald Trump.

"Why do women fall for these white feminist tricks all the time?," questioned Banks. "Now that some white dude has taken office who simply said something silly about grabbing a p---y, they want to march in the streets under the guise of ‘standing up for human freedoms.'"

Banks continued by asking the same protesters where they were last year as African Americans were being gunned down by the police officers. "Where the f--k were they when black folk were getting shot down every day last year?? Why weren't they standing up for human freedoms then?"

Banks has voiced her support of Trump in the past. Last November, she celebrated his victory over Hillary Clinton on Instagram.

"I'm f---ing proud as F--K of you," wrote Banks. "I must say that I am TRULY inspired by this and feel deep amounts of vindication. Thanks for letting me know that I'm not crazy (even though I fronted a few times) liberals run hollywood and it's been a COLD WORLD OUT HERE FOR ME AS A TRUMP SUPPORTER."

See her posts below.

Thoughts #Roommates? -- A photo posted by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Jan 22, 2017 at 1:22pm PST

Thoughts #Roommates? -- A photo posted by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Jan 22, 2017 at 1:22pm PST

Soon A photo posted by Azealia Banks (@azealiabanks) on Jan 22, 2017 at 1:11pm PST