President Trump, ‘Brexit,’ Oscars: Your Tuesday Briefing
President Trump, ‘Brexit,’ Oscars: Your Tuesday Briefing
President Trump is scheduled to meet with the leaders of Fiat Chrysler, Ford and General Motors today. On Monday, he told American executives to bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S. or face punishing tariffs, but larger market forces are also at play . He also pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership that former President Barack Obama had brokered as an effort to protect against a rising China. And he reinstituted a ban on aid to health providers abroad that offer counseling on abortion. Advertisement James B. Comey is said to have told his top agents that Mr. Trump asked him to remain in his job . Advertisement The decision would keep Mr. Comey at the center of the F.B.I.’s investigation into several Trump associates and their potential ties with the Russian government. In a meeting with congressional leaders from both parties on Monday, Mr. Trump falsely claimed that he lost the popular vote because millions of unauthorized immigrants had illegally cast ballots for Hillary Clinton. Voting officials across the country have said there is virtually no evidence of such fraud, and certainly not millions of cases. Mr. Trump’s remarks could overshadow a plan by Senate Democrats today to unveil a $1 trillion infrastructure bill and to offer their support to the president if he backs it. Prime Minister Theresa May must secure the approval of Parliament before she can begin the process of taking Britain out of the European Union, the top court ruled today. She has promised to start negotiations on leaving the bloc by the end of March. Just five years ago, the African country accomplished what seemed impossible: independence. Now, with millions of its people hungry or displaced by civil war, a radical question has emerged : Should the nation lose that hard-won independence? Advertisement Our latest 360 video comes from Hattiesburg, Miss., where residents are returning to destroyed homes and workplaces after a deadly storm over the weekend. A Deadly Tornado’s Destruction See the devastation in Hattiesburg, Miss., after a tornado ripped through early Saturday, killing four people, injuring more than 20 others, and destroying homes and businesses during a weekend of deadly storms throughout the South.      In California, at least four people died in heavy rains that led to floods and mudslides. Gov. Jerry Brown has declared states of emergency in 50 counties . For a deeper examination of international news, The Times has started a weekly email that explains the ideas and context behind major world events. Sign up here . Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business reached “peak millennial”? A recent report noted that the number of young people is flattening in urban areas where they have helped spur economic growth. The paper predicts that the increase in demand for city living is likely to stall in the next few years. Ajit Pai to run the Federal Communications Commission. Mr. Pai is expected to try to roll back Obama administration policies, including net neutrality rules that ban internet service providers from favoring some websites and apps over others. , by itself, isn’t a big driver of rising spending on health care, research suggests. The real culprit is the industry’s changing technology, which is “usually for the better, but always at higher cost,” our writer says . Advertisement were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Noteworthy The Ivy League university will release a report today on how slavery seeped into the financial, intellectual and social life of the school, and of the North as a whole. “This is a very, very neglected piece of our own institution’s history,” said Eric Foner, the historian who wrote the report. “La La Land” received 14 nominations , tying it with “Titanic” and “All About Eve” for the most in Academy Awards history. And the acting nominees will be more diverse than in recent years, with six black actors receiving nods.. Check back later for the full list of nominees, reactions and our predictions. Here’s our complete coverage of the movie awards season. If her name is unfamiliar, it may be because her role as an entomologist and botanist in the late 1600s and early 1700s in Europe was largely forgotten because of poor reproductions of her work and setbacks for women in science. But Merian’s contributions are being recognized again . Her magnum opus, “Metamorphosis Insectorum Surinamensium,” which also features her artwork, was republished last month. The 36-year-old tennis star became the oldest woman to reach the Australian Open singles semifinals in the Open era. Advertisement To get to the final, Williams would need to beat the unseeded American CoCo Vandeweghe, 25. Katie Rich of “Saturday Night Live” has been suspended indefinitely after she mocked President Trump’s 10-year-old son, Barron, on social media. Smarter Living: Morning Edition keep you tossing and turning last night? Online therapy can be effective . you survive a stroke : Our social relationships can have immediate and lasting consequences on our health. Try this carrot and red lentil ragout over rice, and consider using the leftovers for soup. Back Story Super Bowl history was made 35 years ago today, when John Madden, the former N.F.L. coach and TV commentator, drew diagrams on a screen for viewers watching San Francisco beat Cincinnati in Super Bowl XVI. The tool he used is now a staple of sports and weather broadcasts. The Telestrator was invented by Leonard Reiffel, a former NASA scientist and onetime colleague of the astronomer Carl Sagan. Mr. Reiffel developed the tool for a children’s science show he hosted in Chicago. He successfully pitched the technology to TV sports and weather departments. Networks in New York took notice, and after the 1982 Super Bowl, CBS ordered four of the devices, Mr. Reiffel said. At first, a pen was used to draw on one of Mr. Reiffel’s handmade, wooden consoles. Today, touch-screen tablets are typically used. Advertisement For his work, Mr. Reiffel received an Emmy from the National Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2004. His mother coined the name Telestrator, which was slightly catchier than Mr. Reiffel’s description: a “superimposed dynamic television display system.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

The decision would keep Mr. Comey at the center of the F.B.I.’s investigation into several Trump associates and their potential ties with the Russian government.

• A repeated lie about the election.

In a meeting with congressional leaders from both parties on Monday, Mr. Trump falsely claimed that he lost the popular vote because millions of unauthorized immigrants had illegally cast ballots for Hillary Clinton.

Voting officials across the country have said there is virtually no evidence of such fraud, and certainly not millions of cases.

Mr. Trump’s remarks could overshadow a plan by Senate Democrats today to unveil a $1 trillion infrastructure bill and to offer their support to the president if he backs it.

• Supreme Court rules on ‘Brexit.’

Prime Minister Theresa May must secure the approval of Parliament before she can begin the process of taking Britain out of the European Union, the top court ruled today.

Photo

She has promised to start negotiations on leaving the bloc by the end of March.

• Quandary in South Sudan

Just five years ago, the African country accomplished what seemed impossible: independence.

Photo

Now, with millions of its people hungry or displaced by civil war, a radical question has emerged: Should the nation lose that hard-won independence?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A tornado’s destruction.

Our latest 360 video comes from Hattiesburg, Miss., where residents are returning to destroyed homes and workplaces after a deadly storm over the weekend.

Video

In California, at least four people died in heavy rains that led to floods and mudslides. Gov. Jerry Brown has declared states of emergency in 50 counties.

• The Interpreter newsletter.

For a deeper examination of international news, The Times has started a weekly email that explains the ideas and context behind major world events.

Sign up here.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Have American cities reached “peak millennial”? A recent report noted that the number of young people is flattening in urban areas where they have helped spur economic growth.

The paper predicts that the increase in demand for city living is likely to stall in the next few years.

• President Trump has picked Ajit Pai to run the Federal Communications Commission.

Mr. Pai is expected to try to roll back Obama administration policies, including net neutrality rules that ban internet service providers from favoring some websites and apps over others.

• Living longer, by itself, isn’t a big driver of rising spending on health care, research suggests.

The real culprit is the industry’s changing technology, which is “usually for the better, but always at higher cost,” our writer says.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Noteworthy

• Columbia’s slavery ties.

The Ivy League university will release a report today on how slavery seeped into the financial, intellectual and social life of the school, and of the North as a whole.

“This is a very, very neglected piece of our own institution’s history,” said Eric Foner, the historian who wrote the report.

• It’s Oscar nominations day.

“La La Land” received 14 nominations, tying it with “Titanic” and “All About Eve” for the most in Academy Awards history. And the acting nominees will be more diverse than in recent years, with six black actors receiving nods..

Check back later for the full list of nominees, reactions and our predictions.

Here’s our complete coverage of the movie awards season.

• Rediscovering Maria Sibylla Merian.

If her name is unfamiliar, it may be because her role as an entomologist and botanist in the late 1600s and early 1700s in Europe was largely forgotten because of poor reproductions of her work and setbacks for women in science.

But Merian’s contributions are being recognized again. Her magnum opus, “Metamorphosis Insectorum Surinamensium,” which also features her artwork, was republished last month.

• Venus Williams makes history.

The 36-year-old tennis star became the oldest woman to reach the Australian Open singles semifinals in the Open era.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To get to the final, Williams would need to beat the unseeded American CoCo Vandeweghe, 25.

• Uproar over “S.N.L.” writer’s Twitter post.

Katie Rich of “Saturday Night Live” has been suspended indefinitely after she mocked President Trump’s 10-year-old son, Barron, on social media.

Photo

Smarter Living: Morning Edition

• Did insomnia keep you tossing and turning last night? Online therapy can be effective.

• Marriage may help you survive a stroke: Our social relationships can have immediate and lasting consequences on our health.

• Recipe of the day: Try this carrot and red lentil ragout over rice, and consider using the leftovers for soup.

Back Story

Super Bowl history was made 35 years ago today, when John Madden, the former N.F.L. coach and TV commentator, drew diagrams on a screen for viewers watching San Francisco beat Cincinnati in Super Bowl XVI.

The tool he used is now a staple of sports and weather broadcasts.

Photo

The Telestrator was invented by Leonard Reiffel, a former NASA scientist and onetime colleague of the astronomer Carl Sagan. Mr. Reiffel developed the tool for a children’s science show he hosted in Chicago.

He successfully pitched the technology to TV sports and weather departments. Networks in New York took notice, and after the 1982 Super Bowl, CBS ordered four of the devices, Mr. Reiffel said.

At first, a pen was used to draw on one of Mr. Reiffel’s handmade, wooden consoles. Today, touch-screen tablets are typically used.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For his work, Mr. Reiffel received an Emmy from the National Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2004. His mother coined the name Telestrator, which was slightly catchier than Mr. Reiffel’s description: a “superimposed dynamic television display system.”

Charles McDermid contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.