Where you should REALLY keep your tomatoes and coffee
Where you should REALLY keep your tomatoes and coffee


If you've been keeping your tomatoes in the fridge, then you've been storing them in the wrong way.

Last night's Food Unwrapped on Channel 4 revealed the correct way to store everyday store cupboard essentials, from bread to coffee.

And it turns out the fridge isn't always the best place to keep your food, even when it comes to fresh vegetables.

Food Unwrapped revealed that you shouldn't keep tomatoes in the fridge as it affects the taste and texture

If you want your tomatoes to taste the best they possibly can, don't store them in the fridge, according to food safety expert Holly Jefferys.

Though disputed by some, she said that the 'taste and texture' is affected by keeping them in cool conditions.

However keeping tomatoes in the fridge does make them last longer, so it's up to you whether or not you want tasty tomatoes or want them to last as long as possible.

But Polly recommends taking them out of the fridge 24 hours before you plan to use them.

You should never keep coffee or bread in the fridge, according to food experts, because it makes bread stale quicker and coffee taste worse

Food safety expert Holly Jefferys revealed that you should not keep bread or tomatoes in the fridge

Matt Tebbut undertook a taste test to see if coffee tasted better if it had been put in the fridge but found it tasted better when it had been stored in an airtight container

The show, which airs every Monday at 8.30pm, also looked into the best ways to store bread and coffee.

Could their taste or freshness be improved by storing them in the fridge?

The answer was a resolute no - so stop putting these products in the fridge if you've been doing so up until now.

Bread goes stale very quickly if you put it in the fridge, according to Holly.

As for coffee, it depends what your packet says. If it advises you to keep it in the fridge, then do so, otherwise keep it in an airtight container.

But when co-presenter Matt Tebbut did a taste test, he found that the coffee which had been kept in a container out of the fridge tasted like 'freshly brewed coffee', while the coffee which had been kept in the fridge did not.

That's because the aromas of other food in the fridge can muddy the flavours of the coffee.

Food Unwrapped airs on Monday nights on Channel 4 at 8.30pm.