How an accounting scandal and the end of New Labour's big IT contracts triggered the biggest ever fall in BT shares
How an accounting scandal and the end of New Labour's big IT contracts triggered the biggest ever fall in BT shares
T chief executive Gavin Patterson was living the high life in the Alps less than a week ago, rubbing shoulders with Google co-founder Sergey Brin at a Black Eyed Peas concert in Davos. He now is sporting a couple of black eyes of his own, metaphorically speaking, after coming back down to earth with a double thud. He was obliged to tell shareholders about the smoke and mirrors operation at BT Italia as soon as forensic accountants uncovered its full extent. For years the business, originally a joint venture with one Signor S Berlusconi, has over-reported its earnings. The cumulative impact on the balance sheet has come out at £530m, getting on for four times the initial write-down when the scandal was uncovered in October. It also means £120m will be wiped off BT’s third quarter earnings before interest, depreciation and amortisation, which the company will report on Friday. By the end of...

BT chief executive Gavin Patterson was living the high life in the Alps less than a week ago, rubbing shoulders with Google co-founder Sergey Brin at a Black Eyed Peas concert in Davos. He now is sporting a couple of black eyes of his own, metaphorically speaking, after coming back down to earth with a double thud.

He was obliged to tell shareholders about the smoke and mirrors operation at BT Italia as soon as forensic accountants uncovered its full extent. For years the business, originally a joint venture with one Signor S Berlusconi, has over-reported its earnings. The cumulative impact on the balance sheet has come out at £530m, getting on for four times the initial write-down when the scandal was uncovered in October.

It also means £120m will be wiped off BT’s third quarter earnings before interest, depreciation and amortisation, which the company will report on Friday. By the end of...