A Border Adjustment Tax Threatens Disruption For U.S. And Its Neighbors
A Border Adjustment Tax Threatens Disruption For U.S. And Its Neighbors
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  The Mexico Institute       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. US President-elect Donald Trump answers questions from reporters accompanied by wife Melania for a New Year's Eve party December 31, 2016 at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida. DON EMMERT/AFP/Getty Images Donald Trump has been elected U.S. President as disrupter in chief; somebody that can get things done and change the status quo. One of the centerpieces of his program appears to be a complete revamp of the U.S. tax system. “I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone. And that is why I am one that can truly fix them,” he said several times in debates and rallies. The idea is to end up with a system that favors investment on infrastructure and capital goods. His background as a developer and his penchant for not paying taxes have led him to believe that the best way to promote growth and generate government revenue is taxing consumption rather than investment. Furthermore, his infrastructure ambitions need significant private investment funds that might only come with a favorable regime. The idea is to prompt firms and banks holding more than a trillion dollars in cash to put it to work. Crucially, this vision is shared by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, whose blueprint proposal implies abandoning today’s corporate income tax with a cash flow tax base that allows for 100 percent deduction of capital expenditures and is complemented by a border adjustment tax (BAT) that exempts export receipts and prohibits deduction of imports. This proposed scheme implies very significant changes in the United States and overseas and, if introduced formally to Congress, it will be highly controversial. The United States is unique among most others in not having a Value Added Tax (VAT) charged at every step of the production, distribution and commercialization of goods and services, known as credit invoice method. The reason is the differential sale tax regimes across the 50 states and the difficulty in reaching an agreement to have a national VAT. Contrary to what is often said, not having a VAT does not put the United States at a disadvantage: its exports do not carry a latent tax to be reimbursed, while VAT paid at the border is fully recovered by U.S. exporters at first sale. An alternative for the United States is to establish a VAT based on the subtraction method at the firm level, as opposed to the credit invoice. The gross national product (GDP) is the total value added produced in a given economy, as opposed to total sales to avoid double counting. This value added, GDP, can be consumed, invested, or exported. In this manner, imports are not part of GDP calculations, not even on a net basis. On the other hand, national accounting shows GDP is also the addition of the domestic payroll plus the compensation for the stock of capital invested. Thus, a pure cash flow tax system on consumption in the United States would subtract from total sales exports receipts, capital expenditure using domestic capital goods and national inputs. Exports are subtracted as the tax is domestic consumption based, while imported capital goods and inputs are not deducted as they are not part of national value added. This new tax regime would be highly disruptive if implemented. It would impact U.S. sectors differently compared to today’s corporate income tax as the degree of imported goods and the intensity of exports are not uniform across them. It might change relative prices in unforeseen ways impacting resource allocation. It would also result in an appreciation of the dollar with respect to other currencies with the consequent losers (those short in dollars) and winners (those long). It could also result in significant trade frictions with countries around the world. If not done properly, it could be inconsistent with U.S. commitments in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and spark measures and countermeasures by several countries that could seriously harm the global economy. Moreover, border adjustability is more problematic with the subtraction method if the tax rate is not uniform across sectors or stages as the export rebate would be difficult to determine.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Luis de la Calle

Donald Trump has been elected U.S. President as disrupter in chief; somebody that can get things done and change the status quo.

One of the centerpieces of his program appears to be a complete revamp of the U.S. tax system. “I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone. And that is why I am one that can truly fix them,” he said several times in debates and rallies. The idea is to end up with a system that favors investment on infrastructure and capital goods.

His background as a developer and his penchant for not paying taxes have led him to believe that the best way to promote growth and generate government revenue is taxing consumption rather than investment. Furthermore, his infrastructure ambitions need significant private investment funds that might only come with a favorable regime. The idea is to prompt firms and banks holding more than a trillion dollars in cash to put it to work.

Crucially, this vision is shared by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, whose blueprint proposal implies abandoning today’s corporate income tax with a cash flow tax base that allows for 100 percent deduction of capital expenditures and is complemented by a border adjustment tax (BAT) that exempts export receipts and prohibits deduction of imports. This proposed scheme implies very significant changes in the United States and overseas and, if introduced formally to Congress, it will be highly controversial.

The United States is unique among most others in not having a Value Added Tax (VAT) charged at every step of the production, distribution and commercialization of goods and services, known as credit invoice method. The reason is the differential sale tax regimes across the 50 states and the difficulty in reaching an agreement to have a national VAT. Contrary to what is often said, not having a VAT does not put the United States at a disadvantage: its exports do not carry a latent tax to be reimbursed, while VAT paid at the border is fully recovered by U.S. exporters at first sale.

An alternative for the United States is to establish a VAT based on the subtraction method at the firm level, as opposed to the credit invoice. The gross national product (GDP) is the total value added produced in a given economy, as opposed to total sales to avoid double counting. This value added, GDP, can be consumed, invested, or exported. In this manner, imports are not part of GDP calculations, not even on a net basis. On the other hand, national accounting shows GDP is also the addition of the domestic payroll plus the compensation for the stock of capital invested.

Thus, a pure cash flow tax system on consumption in the United States would subtract from total sales exports receipts, capital expenditure using domestic capital goods and national inputs. Exports are subtracted as the tax is domestic consumption based, while imported capital goods and inputs are not deducted as they are not part of national value added.

This new tax regime would be highly disruptive if implemented. It would impact U.S. sectors differently compared to today’s corporate income tax as the degree of imported goods and the intensity of exports are not uniform across them. It might change relative prices in unforeseen ways impacting resource allocation. It would also result in an appreciation of the dollar with respect to other currencies with the consequent losers (those short in dollars) and winners (those long). It could also result in significant trade frictions with countries around the world. If not done properly, it could be inconsistent with U.S. commitments in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and spark measures and countermeasures by several countries that could seriously harm the global economy. Moreover, border adjustability is more problematic with the subtraction method if the tax rate is not uniform across sectors or stages as the export rebate would be difficult to determine.