If You’re Behind on Retirement Savings, Here’s How to Catch Up
If You’re Behind on Retirement Savings, Here’s How to Catch Up
No matter how big your retirement-savings shortfall, all is not lost. There are a number of ways, often overlooked, to help you boost income or minimize your costs during your golden years. Here are three: Tax-advantaged savings accounts offer some of the most attractive ways to play catch-up, experts say, and yet many savings laggards don’t fully employ them. Anyone age 50 or older can put an extra $6,000 a year—to a maximum of $24,000—into an employer-sponsored 401(k)-type plan. With an individual retirement account, the annual contribution limit rises to $6,500 from $5,500, giving latecomers an extra $1,000 in tax-advantaged savings. Another often overlooked option is a health-savings account. To open an HSA, you must be covered by an HSA-qualified health plan, which typically has a high deductible. But when used to cover medical expenses, these accounts come with more tax advantages than 401(k)s and IRAs. As with a traditional 401(k) or IRA, an HSA allows you to set aside pretax money without paying federal or state income tax on it. If used for medical expenses, the money can also be withdrawn tax-free, unlike the savings in a traditional 401(k) or IRA. This year, individuals and families can save up to $3,400 or $6,750 a year, respectively, in an HSA. (Those 55 or older can save $1,000 more.) By postponing retirement and not claiming Social Security until age 70, a person stands to boost his or her retirement income substantially. Social Security increases its payouts by up to 8% for every year a beneficiary between ages 62 and 70 refrains from collecting a check. (Payments are also adjusted for inflation.) ​A bonus: Those able to postpone retirement can count on a few extra years in which to earn an income and save. Moreover, the number of years in which they must support themselves on their retirement savings will decline. “Even a part-time job can make a difference,” says Wade Pfau, a professor of retirement income at the American College of Financial Services in Bryn Mawr, Pa. Many retirees seek to free up home equity by downsizing or relocating to a cheaper area. But if the savings don’t amount to much or you want to stay put, consider a reverse mortgage. While in the past reverse mortgages had garnered a bad reputation for getting some homeowners into trouble, a growing body of research says that if used properly they can be good for filling in retirement income gaps. Reverse mortgages allow people ages 62 and older to convert their home equity into cash. But instead of the homeowner writing a check to the bank each month, the bank pays the homeowner, who can elect to receive a lump sum, line of credit or monthly payments. The loan is due, with interest, when the borrower dies, moves or sells the house. Fees on these loans have declined in recent years, transforming them from a product with a bad reputation to “a viable source” of money for people who want to remain in their homes, says Paul Auslander, director of financial planning at ProVise Management Group LLC in Clearwater, Fla. The proceeds can be used to pay down a mortgage. Those who need income to supplement their retirement savings may want to elect a monthly payment for life, says Mr. Pfau. Write to Anne Tergesen at anne.tergesen@wsj.com What Do Traders at Myanmar’s Stock Exchange Do All Day? Nothing. In Retirement, It’s Save Now or Pay (a Lot) Later How to Win a Real-Estate Bidding War

No matter how big your retirement-savings shortfall, all is not lost.

There are a number of ways, often overlooked, to help you boost income or minimize your costs during your golden years. Here are three:

Stretching the Dollar, Maximizing Breaks

Tax-advantaged savings accounts offer some of the most attractive ways to play catch-up, experts say, and yet many savings laggards don’t fully employ them.

Anyone age 50 or older can put an extra $6,000 a year—to a maximum of $24,000—into an employer-sponsored 401(k)-type plan. With an individual retirement account, the annual contribution limit rises to $6,500 from $5,500, giving latecomers an extra $1,000 in tax-advantaged savings.

Another often overlooked option is a health-savings account. To open an HSA, you must be covered by an HSA-qualified health plan, which typically has a high deductible. But when used to cover medical expenses, these accounts come with more tax advantages than 401(k)s and IRAs.

As with a traditional 401(k) or IRA, an HSA allows you to set aside pretax money without paying federal or state income tax on it. If used for medical expenses, the money can also be withdrawn tax-free, unlike the savings in a traditional 401(k) or IRA.

This year, individuals and families can save up to $3,400 or $6,750 a year, respectively, in an HSA. (Those 55 or older can save $1,000 more.)

Delaying Social Security

By postponing retirement and not claiming Social Security until age 70, a person stands to boost his or her retirement income substantially. Social Security increases its payouts by up to 8% for every year a beneficiary between ages 62 and 70 refrains from collecting a check. (Payments are also adjusted for inflation.)

​A bonus: Those able to postpone retirement can count on a few extra years in which to earn an income and save. Moreover, the number of years in which they must support themselves on their retirement savings will decline.

“Even a part-time job can make a difference,” says Wade Pfau, a professor of retirement income at the American College of Financial Services in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Tapping Your Home Equity

Many retirees seek to free up home equity by downsizing or relocating to a cheaper area. But if the savings don’t amount to much or you want to stay put, consider a reverse mortgage.

While in the past reverse mortgages had garnered a bad reputation for getting some homeowners into trouble, a growing body of research says that if used properly they can be good for filling in retirement income gaps.

Reverse mortgages allow people ages 62 and older to convert their home equity into cash. But instead of the homeowner writing a check to the bank each month, the bank pays the homeowner, who can elect to receive a lump sum, line of credit or monthly payments. The loan is due, with interest, when the borrower dies, moves or sells the house.

Fees on these loans have declined in recent years, transforming them from a product with a bad reputation to “a viable source” of money for people who want to remain in their homes, says Paul Auslander, director of financial planning at ProVise Management Group LLC in Clearwater, Fla.

The proceeds can be used to pay down a mortgage. Those who need income to supplement their retirement savings may want to elect a monthly payment for life, says Mr. Pfau.

Write to Anne Tergesen at anne.tergesen@wsj.com



More From The Wall Street Journal