Is Your iPhone Really Frying Your Brain? Five Things You Need To Know
Is Your iPhone Really Frying Your Brain? Five Things You Need To Know
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Sarah Hedgecock       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. It happens to me more often than I'd like to admit: I'm waiting in a long line, pull out my phone, open the Facebook app to glance at my feed, close the app...and idly open it again as though I hadn't just been using it. Sound familiar? This kind of boredom-induced app loop, like phantom phone vibrations and insomnia from looking at screens too close to bedtime, are a phenomenon that didn't exist just a few years ago. But since the announcement of the first iPhone ten years ago this week, concerns about devices turning their users into mindless drones seem to have reached a fever pitch. So is the internet really bad for your brain? Here's what we know. A man looks at his smartphone at a Samsung showroom in Seoul on January 6, 2017. (JUNG YEON-JE/AFP/Getty Images) Having answers to any basic question right in your pocket may not be as bad as you've been led to believe. "The average IQ of the population at large has been increasing every 10 years," says Alvaro Fernandez, who runs Sharp Brains, an applied neuroscience company. "IQ is not the only thing that matters, but if something was very, very harmful for our brains, we would have already noticed it there." Cal Newport, computer science professor at Georgetown, has a more nuanced take. He also has no social media accounts. "These technologies, when used when engineered, create an addiction," he explains. "Your brain forms this Pavlovian link where at the slightest hint of boredom, at the slightest lack of stimuli, you have to whip out that app." He won't go so far as to claim Facebook is hindering your professional development, but the availability of easy distraction, he believes, prevents serious concentration and the will to think deeply. Smartphone users may have a Pavlovian response to boredom, but "addiction" may be too broad a word for what's going on. Importantly, to qualify psychologically as an addiction, the thing or behavior in question must cause significant distress to the person doing it. In a recent study , researchers tried to find a link between internet gaming and addiction--and although 2-3% of the subjects had enough other symptoms to qualify as addicted, not many of them were that concerned about it. And about 75% of the gamers reported no symptoms at all (they were just really into internet games). If the research on internet gaming addiction can be extrapolated to internet addiction as a whole--and that would perhaps even be an overly broad category--there isn't much for your average smartphone user to worry about in terms of serious psychological issues. Have you ever seen someone so engrossed in their phone that they walk right into a stop sign? That's only where the danger starts. In 2014, 3,179 people were killed as a result of distracted driving, and those distractions are often cell phones. Another 431,000 were injured. Knowing how to exist without your favorite device isn't just good for deep thinking--it's also an increasingly important factor in staying alive. "We have to be very careful with children," Alvaro concedes. "[Smart devices] can create an addiction if they are exposed too early. Adults also have to prevent constant distractions." He compares smartphones and their ilk to cars: When automobiles first hit the market, they were pretty dangerous--not because of the tech, but because humans hadn't quite figured out how to deal with it. As we continue to develop "rules of the road," we'll better be able to integrate internet-connected devices into our lives rather than getting distracted by them. But in order to learn to concentrate and follow those rules, kids need to be able to process the world around them without relying on a screen. So no, your iPhone isn't frying your brain. But nor should you whip it out any time you feel an inkling of boredom. Try looking up once in a while--you may just keep yourself from running into a stop sign.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

It happens to me more often than I'd like to admit: I'm waiting in a long line, pull out my phone, open the Facebook app to glance at my feed, close the app...and idly open it again as though I hadn't just been using it.

Sound familiar? This kind of boredom-induced app loop, like phantom phone vibrations and insomnia from looking at screens too close to bedtime, are a phenomenon that didn't exist just a few years ago. But since the announcement of the first iPhone ten years ago this week, concerns about devices turning their users into mindless drones seem to have reached a fever pitch. So is the internet really bad for your brain? Here's what we know.

The internet isn't frying your brain. Having answers to any basic question right in your pocket may not be as bad as you've been led to believe. "The average IQ of the population at large has been increasing every 10 years," says Alvaro Fernandez, who runs Sharp Brains, an applied neuroscience company. "IQ is not the only thing that matters, but if something was very, very harmful for our brains, we would have already noticed it there." But boredom is good for deep thinking. Cal Newport, computer science professor at Georgetown, has a more nuanced take. He also has no social media accounts. "These technologies, when used when engineered, create an addiction," he explains. "Your brain forms this Pavlovian link where at the slightest hint of boredom, at the slightest lack of stimuli, you have to whip out that app." He won't go so far as to claim Facebook is hindering your professional development, but the availability of easy distraction, he believes, prevents serious concentration and the will to think deeply. You probably aren't addicted to your smartphone. Smartphone users may have a Pavlovian response to boredom, but "addiction" may be too broad a word for what's going on. Importantly, to qualify psychologically as an addiction, the thing or behavior in question must cause significant distress to the person doing it. In a recent study, researchers tried to find a link between internet gaming and addiction--and although 2-3% of the subjects had enough other symptoms to qualify as addicted, not many of them were that concerned about it. And about 75% of the gamers reported no symptoms at all (they were just really into internet games). If the research on internet gaming addiction can be extrapolated to internet addiction as a whole--and that would perhaps even be an overly broad category--there isn't much for your average smartphone user to worry about in terms of serious psychological issues. The biggest concerns are more immediate. Have you ever seen someone so engrossed in their phone that they walk right into a stop sign? That's only where the danger starts. In 2014, 3,179 people were killed as a result of distracted driving, and those distractions are often cell phones. Another 431,000 were injured. Knowing how to exist without your favorite device isn't just good for deep thinking--it's also an increasingly important factor in staying alive. Kids need to learn about the real world before being introduced to the digital one. "We have to be very careful with children," Alvaro concedes. "[Smart devices] can create an addiction if they are exposed too early. Adults also have to prevent constant distractions." He compares smartphones and their ilk to cars: When automobiles first hit the market, they were pretty dangerous--not because of the tech, but because humans hadn't quite figured out how to deal with it. As we continue to develop "rules of the road," we'll better be able to integrate internet-connected devices into our lives rather than getting distracted by them. But in order to learn to concentrate and follow those rules, kids need to be able to process the world around them without relying on a screen.

So no, your iPhone isn't frying your brain. But nor should you whip it out any time you feel an inkling of boredom. Try looking up once in a while--you may just keep yourself from running into a stop sign.