White House adviser Kellyanne Conway 'repeatedly punched man' at Trump inauguration ball
White House adviser Kellyanne Conway 'repeatedly punched man' at Trump inauguration ball
ellyanne Conway , the senior adviser to Donald Trump, repeatedly punched a man at an inaugural ball, a witness has said. Charles Gasparino, a correspondent for the Fox Business network, said he saw Mrs Conway intervene during a fight between two tuxedoed attendees. “Suddenly out of nowhere came Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway who began throwing some means punches at one of the guys,” he wrote in a Facebook post. “Whole thing lasted a few mins no one was hurt except maybe the dude she smacked,”he continued. “Now I know why Trump hired her.” ccording to the New York Post the alleged altercation took place near the ball’s VIP area, came shortly after the first dance between the president and first lady and appeared to involve friends or family of Mrs Conway’s . The White House did not respond to a request for comment. Mr Gasparino also claimed that protesters antagonised Scott Baio, the former Happy Days star, outside the ball, calling him a “fascist” and making an “aggressive move” toward him before a bystander stepped in. rs Conway managed Mr Trump’s campaign and is probably the most visible member of his inner circle, appearing frequently on US news networks and sparring continually with members of the media. She recently made headlines for saying Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, had not lied about Mr Trump’s inauguration in his blistering statement on Saturday but had instead presented, “alternative facts”. Mrs Conway told Fox News on Monday night that she had to be assigned Secret Service protection after packages containing “white substances” were delivered to her home. She said the protection was needed, “because of what the press is doing to me”. As Mr Trump did fewer and fewer interviews last in his campaign and during the transition, Mrs Conway played an increasingly high-profile role as his representative, particularly on television. She has been the subject of several sketches on Saturday Night Live and become one of the figures most closely associated with the president.

Kellyanne Conway, the senior adviser to Donald Trump, repeatedly punched a man at an inaugural ball, a witness has said.

Charles Gasparino, a correspondent for the Fox Business network, said he saw Mrs Conway intervene during a fight between two tuxedoed attendees.

“Suddenly out of nowhere came Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway who began throwing some means punches at one of the guys,” he wrote in a Facebook post.