16-Year-Old Schoolboy Rejects Rs 42-Crore Offer For A Website He Designed In His Bedroom!
16-Year-Old Schoolboy Rejects Rs 42-Crore Offer For A Website He Designed In His Bedroom!
16-Year-Old Schoolboy Rejects Rs 42-Crore Offer For A Website He Designed In His Bedroom! Mohammed Ali is one heck of a confident kid for his age. The 16-year-old recently rejected a £5 million offer for a website he designed in his bedroom! That's over Rs. 42 crores he said no to! Ali, who designed weneed1.com, a price comparison website, believes that it will be worth a lot more in future. Hence, offer rejected! A buyout that could have literally made him a millionaire was offered just before Christmas. The kid said, as reported by , Of course, he realises the big risk he took by rejecting the offer but Ali wants his website to become a household name. And it's not the first time the genius boy has won something big. His video game 'Project 2006' previously earned him a £30,000 reward! His website, that Ali co-created with his 60-year-old business partner, Chris Thorpe, will launch on January 28.

Mohammed Ali is one heck of a confident kid for his age. The 16-year-old recently rejected a £5 million offer for a website he designed in his bedroom! That's over Rs. 42 crores he said no to!

Ali, who designed weneed1.com, a price comparison website, believes that it will be worth a lot more in future. Hence, offer rejected!

Mercury via Metro

A buyout that could have literally made him a millionaire was offered just before Christmas. The kid said, as reported by Metro,

"We met the investors in London, they were a global data driven company, and they didn’t realise I created all the technology involved. The main reason we rejected the offer was because, if the technology and concept is worth millions already, just think how much it will be worth once people use it."

Mercury via Metro

Of course, he realises the big risk he took by rejecting the offer but Ali wants his website to become a household name.

And it's not the first time the genius boy has won something big. His video game 'Project 2006' previously earned him a £30,000 reward!

His website, that Ali co-created with his 60-year-old business partner, Chris Thorpe, will launch on January 28.