With Oscar Nominations, Amazon Succeeds Where Netflix Failed
With Oscar Nominations, Amazon Succeeds Where Netflix Failed
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Madeline Berg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Casey Affleck and Lucas Hedges in . Both actors were nominated for Oscars this morning, and the film received six total nods. (Claire Folger/Amazon Studios and Roadside Attractions) Tuesday morning, Amazon achieved what no other streaming service has before: significant Academy Award acknowledgement for a feature film. received six nominations, including one for best picture, and Iranian feature was nominated for best foreign language feature. In a competitive field where newcomer Amazon is chasing incumbent Netflix, this is one area in which  Jeff Bezos' streaming service has succeeded where Reed Hastings' has failed. Amazon bought the distribution rights to drama at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival for $10 million. The acquisition was one of many Amazon Studios purchases that year--including and that proved the service was taking its foray into film seriously. Amazon distributed traditionally, and since its November 2016 debut, it has made almost $39  million at the domestic box office. In addition to best picture, Casey Affleck was nominated for lead actor (for which he won the Golden Globe), Michelle Williams for supporting actress, Lucas Hedges for supporting actor and Kenneth Lonergan for director and original screenplay. Netflix tried its hand at feature films when it purchased the rights to , a war drama about a child soldier, at 2015's Toronto Film Festival for about $12 million. Rather than a traditional release, Netflix only put it out for a two week theatrical run so it qualified for awards. was released online simultaneously, leading to a paltry $91,000 at the box office. The film was notably overlooked during awards season, yielding no Academy Award nominations and only one Golden Globe nod.  In its history, Netflix has been nominated for five Oscars, all in the best documentary category (including this year's nod for Ava Duvernay's ). Perhaps it is Amazon's critical success that has motivated Netflix to try again (after all, with a $6 billion-plus content budget, it has the money). So far, the streaming service has made several purchases at this year's Sundance, including the $3 million comedy which it plans to release in a traditional matter. Even if it fails in multiplexes, Netflix can fall back on the success of its original series, where the service is receiving more critical acclaim than ever before. It recently won its first best drama series Golden Globe for first for any streaming service And, last week, its fourth quarter earnings beat Wall Street expectations as the service enjoyed its largest quarterly subscriber gain in history. Netflix attributes this to new original content, including and In terms of users, Netflix beats Amazon, with digital research firm eMarketer estimating the former has 128 million viewers, while the latter only has 85.3 million. Though this proves Netflix doesn't need feature films to succeed, the prestige of the Academy Awards likely remains a point of pride. For Amazon, the many Oscar nods validate its costly Hollywood aspirations. It has already purchased for $12 million at this year's Sundance and will likely continue to make acquisitions. The Bezos-led company is also doubling down on producing its own films, such as from award-winning filmmaker Richard Linklater and an untitled Woody Allen project starring Kate Winslet and Justin Timberlake. If all goes well for the streaming service next month, Amazon will take home its first Oscars of many for streaming services. Studios, watch out. For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Tuesday morning, Amazon achieved what no other streaming service has before: significant Academy Award acknowledgement for a feature film. Manchester by the Sea received six nominations, including one for best picture, and Iranian feature The Salesman was nominated for best foreign language feature.

In a competitive field where newcomer Amazon is chasing incumbent Netflix, this is one area in which Jeff Bezos' streaming service has succeeded where Reed Hastings' has failed.

Amazon bought the distribution rights to drama Manchester by the Sea at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival for $10 million. The acquisition was one of many Amazon Studios purchases that year--including Wiener-Dog and Love & Friendship--that proved the service was taking its foray into film seriously. Amazon distributed Manchester traditionally, and since its November 2016 debut, it has made almost $39 million at the domestic box office. In addition to best picture, Casey Affleck was nominated for lead actor (for which he won the Golden Globe), Michelle Williams for supporting actress, Lucas Hedges for supporting actor and Kenneth Lonergan for director and original screenplay.

Netflix tried its hand at feature films when it purchased the rights to Beasts of No Nation, a war drama about a child soldier, at 2015's Toronto Film Festival for about $12 million. Rather than a traditional release, Netflix only put it out for a two week theatrical run so it qualified for awards. Beasts was released online simultaneously, leading to a paltry $91,000 at the box office. The film was notably overlooked during awards season, yielding no Academy Award nominations and only one Golden Globe nod. In its history, Netflix has been nominated for five Oscars, all in the best documentary category (including this year's nod for Ava Duvernay's 13th).

Oscar Nominees 2017: The Full List

Perhaps it is Amazon's critical success that has motivated Netflix to try again (after all, with a $6 billion-plus content budget, it has the money). So far, the streaming service has made several purchases at this year's Sundance, including the $3 million comedy The Incredible Jessica James, which it plans to release in a traditional matter.

Even if it fails in multiplexes, Netflix can fall back on the success of its original series, where the service is receiving more critical acclaim than ever before. It recently won its first best drama series Golden Globe for The Crown--a first for any streaming service. And, last week, its fourth quarter earnings beat Wall Street expectations as the service enjoyed its largest quarterly subscriber gain in history. Netflix attributes this to new original content, including The Crown, Marvel's Luke Cage and Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life. In terms of users, Netflix beats Amazon, with digital research firm eMarketer estimating the former has 128 million viewers, while the latter only has 85.3 million. Though this proves Netflix doesn't need feature films to succeed, the prestige of the Academy Awards likely remains a point of pride.

For Amazon, the many Oscar nods validate its costly Hollywood aspirations. It has already purchased The Big Sick for $12 million at this year's Sundance and will likely continue to make acquisitions. The Bezos-led company is also doubling down on producing its own films, such as Last Flying Flag from award-winning filmmaker Richard Linklater and an untitled Woody Allen project starring Kate Winslet and Justin Timberlake.

If all goes well for the streaming service next month, Amazon will take home its first Oscars of many for streaming services. Studios, watch out.

For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg.