A Lot Of People Are Pissed That Amy Adams Didn’t Get Nominated For An Oscar
A Lot Of People Are Pissed That Amy Adams Didn't Get Nominated For An Oscar
When the 2017 Academy Award nominations were announced on Tuesday, Jan. 24, collected a total of eight nominations. The film was nominated in the following categories: Best Cinematography, Best Directing, Best Film Editing, Best Picture, Best Production Design, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Adapted Screenplay. One person who was notably missing from the conversation about was Amy Adams, who plays the film’s lead character named Louise Banks. Adams was not nominated in the category for Best Actress. Here are the 2017 Oscar nominees for Best Actress: Isabelle Huppert, Ruth Negga,  Natalie Portman, Emma Stone,  Meryl Streep, And a lot of people are really pissed. Dear Amy Adams, you don't need an Oscar to tell you how brilliant of an actor you are. Those 8 noms for "Arrival" are because of you. #snubs 8 nominations for #Arrival but no nomination for the actor who leads the entire film. Bizarre. #AmyAdams #OscarNoms In an effort to receive an #Oscar #AmyAdams will portray #MerylStreep in a film. The academy will nominate Streep for that performance. "Hey! I just wanted to say--"
"Honey, I've been underrated all my life. Get used to it."
-text between Amy Adams and Annette Bening No Amy Adams for neither Arrival or Nocturnal Animals is a travesty. She's become the new Leonardo DiCaprio. GIVE HER AN OSCAR! #OscarNoms Even if they’re happy for other actors who got nominations… Happy for Ruth Negga, sad for my girl Amy Adams - dude, she IS that movie. How does it get nominated without her? …they still think Amy Adams got snubbed. passengers, doctor strange and suicide squad got nominations, but Amy Adams and Taraji P. Henson didn't AMY ADAMS WAS SNUBBED Denis Villeneuve, who was nominated for Best Director, even mentioned Adams in his statement, saying she “is the soul of .” “I want to thank the Academy for acknowledging . It means so much to all of us. However, it is a little bittersweet. Amy Adams is the soul of , so I’m profoundly sad she did not get a nomination this morning.” There’s always next year.   How Do Your "Law & Order" Opinions Compare To Everyone...    18 Accessories For Anyone Who Loves Netflix More Than...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.