Israel plans 2,500 new settlement homes in occupied West Bank



Israel plans 2,500 new settlement homes in occupied West Bank

Posted

Israel says it will build 2,500 more homes in the occupied West Bank, the second settlement expansion since US President Donald Trump took office.

Key points: The plans follow an earlier pledge to build hundreds of homes in East Jerusalem

A spokesman for the Palestinian leader said the decision would have "consequences"

US President Donald Trump has said he would not oppose settlement building

Israel's Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman announced the new construction, just two days after plans were announced for more than 500 new settlement homes in occupied East Jerusalem.

A statement from the Defence Ministry said the move was meant to fulfil demand for new housing "to maintain regular daily life".

Most of the construction, it said, would be in existing settlement blocs that Israel intends to keep under any future peace agreement with the Palestinians.

However, a breakdown provided by the Prime Minister's office showed large portions of the planned homes would be outside existing blocs.

The right-wing Government of Benjamin Netanyahu appears emboldened by the election of Mr Trump, who has signalled he will be less critical of settlements than his predecessor.

On Sunday, Mr Netanyahu told senior ministers he was lifting restrictions on settlement construction "across the board".

"We can build where we want and as much as we want," an official quoted Mr Netanyahu as telling the ministers.

About 350,000 settlers live in the West Bank and a further 200,000 in East Jerusalem, which Israel seized in the 1967 Middle East war.

Beyond the major blocs, most of which are close to the border with Israel, there are more than 100 settlement outposts scattered across hilltops in the West Bank.

Settlements will 'hinder any attempt to restore stability'

Nabil Abu Rdainah, a spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, condemned the Israeli announcement and said it would have "consequences".

"The decision will hinder any attempt to restore security and stability," Mr Rdainah said.

"It will reinforce extremism and terrorism and will place obstacles in the path of any effort to start a peace process."

They want the West Bank and Gaza Strip, from which Israeli troops and settlers withdrew in 2005, for an independent state, with its capital in East Jerusalem.

Last month, the UN Security Council passed a resolution condemning Israel's settlements on land that the Palestinians want for a future state.

Australia was one of the only countries to speak out against the resolution in support of Israel, with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull calling it "one-sided".

'We are building and will continue to build'

During the US election campaign, Mr Trump indicated he would dispense with former President Barack Obama's opposition to settlement building, a stance that delighted Mr Netanyahu's Government.

Following Tuesday's announcement, the Prime Minister's office listed some of the West Bank areas slated for new construction, but not all were in settlement blocs.

"I have agreed with the Defence Minister to build 2,500 new homes in Judea and Samaria [West Bank] — we are building and will continue to build," Mr Netanyahu said in a tweet.

The Defence Ministry statement said 100 of the new homes would be in Beit El, a settlement which according to Israeli media has received funding from the family of Mr Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

David Friedman, a staunch supporter of Israeli settlers who Mr Trump has nominated to be his ambassador to Israel, has served as president of the American Friends of Beit El, a group that raises funds for the settlement.

Most countries consider settlements illegal and an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace as they reduce and fragment the territory Palestinians need for a viable state.

Israel disagrees, citing biblical, historical and political connections to the land which the Palestinians also assert, as well as security interests.

ABC/Reuters

Topics: world-politics, unrest-conflict-and-war, palestinian-territory-occupied, israel