Outspoken Brexit critic Martin Schulz set to take on Angela Merkel in German elections
Outspoken Brexit critic Martin Schulz set to take on Angela Merkel in German elections
artin Schulz, the controversial former president of the European parliament , became the favourite to take on Angela Merkel in German elections after his party leader pulled out in a shock decision on Tuesday. The decision means that one of the EU's most outspoken critics of Britain over Brexit could become German chancellor at a crucial point in negotiations this September. Sigmar Gabriel, the current vice-chancellor, told a meeting of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) on Tuesday afternoon that he would not seek its nomination as a candidate for the chancellorship. Instead he said he would resign as party leader and recommend Mr Schulz to succeed him. “There are two basic requirements to lead a successful election campaign: the party must believe in the candidate and gather behind him, and the candidate himself must want it with every fibre of his heart,” Mr Gabriel told Germany’s Stern magazine in an exclusibe interview “Neither of these apply to me in sufficient measure.” he decision will put Mr Schulz, who quit the European parliament to move into German national politics last year , in pole position to challenge Mrs Merkel for the chancellorship. But he still has a lot of ground to make up if he is to mount an effective challenge to Mrs Merkel, whose centre-right Christian Democrats (CDU) are leading the polls on 33.5 per cent. While the SPD is currently her junior coalition partner, it is the CDU’s closest rival, on 21 per cent, and the only other party with a realistic chance of heading a government after September’s elections. The hard-Right Alternative for Germany (AfD) is lagging behind in third place on 13.5 per cent. A factor in Mr Gabriel’s decision may have been that Mr Schulz has consistently fared better than him in the opinion polls. A survey last month found that in a head-to-head race for chancellor 57 per cent of Germans would vote for Mrs Merkel, against just 19 per cent for Mr Gabriel. ut with Mr Schulz the race was much closer. Mrs Merkel was just ahead 43 per cent, against 36 per cent for Mr Schulz. Although parties nominate their candidate for the chancellorship in Germany, the country has a parliamentary system rather than a presidential one, so the actual path to power is more complicated. Because Germany uses proportional representation, to have any chance of becoming chancellor Mr Schulz would have to form a coalition. His only realistic option according to the current polls would be a three-way coalition with the Greens and the Left Party, which would drag Germany significantly to the left. It would also put a hardened Europhile and one of Brexit’s harshest critics in charge of Europe’s most powerful economy.

Martin Schulz, the controversial former president of the European parliament, became the favourite to take on Angela Merkel in German elections after his party leader pulled out in a shock decision on Tuesday.

The decision means that one of the EU's most outspoken critics of Britain over Brexit could become German chancellor at a crucial point in negotiations this September.

Sigmar Gabriel, the current vice-chancellor, told a meeting of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) on Tuesday afternoon that he would not seek its nomination as a candidate for the chancellorship.

Instead he said he would resign as party leader and recommend Mr Schulz to succeed him.

“There are two basic requirements to lead a successful election campaign: the party must believe in the candidate and gather behind him, and the candidate himself must want it with every fibre of his heart,” Mr Gabriel told Germany’s Stern magazine in an exclusibe interview

“Neither of these apply to me in sufficient measure.”