How I Made $20,000 More In 2016 Than I Did In 2015
How I Made $20,000 More In 2016 Than I Did In 2015
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maya Kachroo-Levine       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As a freelancer, I don’t make one set amount every month. Instead, what I bring in fluctuates, and though I can make a rough estimate as to how much I’m going to make in the upcoming year, I don’t really know until the year ends. Every month, I fill a spreadsheet detailing how much I brought in from each one of my contract jobs. I’ve finally calculated how much I brought in for 2016, and compared the 2016 income-per-month spreadsheet with the one from 2015. In 2016, I brought in roughly $20,000 more than I brought in for 2015. It’s worth noting that my goal is not to make $20,000 more in 2017 than I made in 2016. It’s not that I don’t believe in big growth (I do), but I also believe in realistic goals. The cost of being a freelancer is that sometimes you have significantly better years than others. My goal is to keep increasing my income in 2017, but the jump is unlikely to be as high as it was in 2016. Because my income increased as a result of higher rates, or taking on additional shorter-term projects, I don’t treat my income boosts the way I would treat a raise at a full-time job. For me, this means that I don’t increase my cost-of-living when I make $3,000 more one month. I may go out for an extra meal or two, but for the most part, I put the extra money directly into savings under the pretense that I may not make an excess of $3,000 the following month. Here’s how I made nearly $20,000 more this year than I did last year: When you’re a freelancer, you often need to give yourself a raise, as opposed to sitting down with your full-time employer and asking for a pay bump. I realized my experience-level had evolved, but I was still accepting entry-level rates. When asking for higher rates with existing clients, and when bringing on new clients, I made sure to explain why I was worth more money, by providing concrete examples of what I could do for them. In general, I’ve learned if you’re going to raise your rates, you need to be able to prove (with specifics) why your work for the client will be worth the additional cost.  I never want to feel like I’m stuck in a bad work situation that I cannot leave because I can’t afford to. When I had a full-time, salaried job, it really bothered me that I never had anything to fall back on. If I felt like I needed to leave, or I lost my job, I’d have no other income. For this reason, I try to balance enough work that, I’d be able to get by if I lost one of my consistent gigs (even though it wouldn’t be ideal). This was especially helpful when I was raising my rates because I knew I could afford to say “no” to a job if the client and I couldn’t come to an agreement on a fair rate. About halfway through 2016, I realized I needed to set a target for what I wanted to bring in every month, and work until I hit that target. If that meant taking on extra work, then I was willing to do so in order to hit my goal every month. This sounds like I was willing to push myself to workaholic levels, but in months when I would take on an additional project, I noticed that I wasn’t adding too many more hours to my work week, I was just forced to manage my time more effectively. I graduated college with the mentality that if you got a job — any job — you were incredibly lucky to have it. (And of course, I am extremely grateful for every job I’ve had.) But I think because I was so desperate to get work in my first few professional years, I was willing to do extra work in order to do the best job I could, but I felt that asking for compensation for those additional hours would be “overstepping.” Ultimately, I’ve had more than one boss help me realize that this is flawed logic, and if I’m working, I should be billing. Too many people have told me that freelancing is either feast or famine, and unfortunately, it’s a cliché for a reason. When the great opportunities show up, they tend to show up all at once, which means you occasionally need to overextend yourself to accommodate everything. However, when this has happened to me, I’ve valued the opportunities enough to make them all work in my schedule, which makes for a busy few months, but is another great way to increase your revenue.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As a freelancer, I don’t make one set amount every month. Instead, what I bring in fluctuates, and though I can make a rough estimate as to how much I’m going to make in the upcoming year, I don’t really know until the year ends. Every month, I fill a spreadsheet detailing how much I brought in from each one of my contract jobs. I’ve finally calculated how much I brought in for 2016, and compared the 2016 income-per-month spreadsheet with the one from 2015. In 2016, I brought in roughly $20,000 more than I brought in for 2015.

It’s worth noting that my goal is not to make $20,000 more in 2017 than I made in 2016. It’s not that I don’t believe in big growth (I do), but I also believe in realistic goals. The cost of being a freelancer is that sometimes you have significantly better years than others. My goal is to keep increasing my income in 2017, but the jump is unlikely to be as high as it was in 2016.

Because my income increased as a result of higher rates, or taking on additional shorter-term projects, I don’t treat my income boosts the way I would treat a raise at a full-time job. For me, this means that I don’t increase my cost-of-living when I make $3,000 more one month. I may go out for an extra meal or two, but for the most part, I put the extra money directly into savings under the pretense that I may not make an excess of $3,000 the following month. Here’s how I made nearly $20,000 more this year than I did last year:

1. I raised my hourly rate.

When you’re a freelancer, you often need to give yourself a raise, as opposed to sitting down with your full-time employer and asking for a pay bump. I realized my experience-level had evolved, but I was still accepting entry-level rates. When asking for higher rates with existing clients, and when bringing on new clients, I made sure to explain why I was worth more money, by providing concrete examples of what I could do for them. In general, I’ve learned if you’re going to raise your rates, you need to be able to prove (with specifics) why your work for the client will be worth the additional cost.

More on Forbes:

2. I tried to make sure I had enough work that I could walk away from a contract if I wasn’t being compensated fairly.

I never want to feel like I’m stuck in a bad work situation that I cannot leave because I can’t afford to. When I had a full-time, salaried job, it really bothered me that I never had anything to fall back on. If I felt like I needed to leave, or I lost my job, I’d have no other income. For this reason, I try to balance enough work that, I’d be able to get by if I lost one of my consistent gigs (even though it wouldn’t be ideal). This was especially helpful when I was raising my rates because I knew I could afford to say “no” to a job if the client and I couldn’t come to an agreement on a fair rate.

3. I made a rigid goal to make a certain amount every month, and I didn’t let myself slip.

About halfway through 2016, I realized I needed to set a target for what I wanted to bring in every month, and work until I hit that target. If that meant taking on extra work, then I was willing to do so in order to hit my goal every month. This sounds like I was willing to push myself to workaholic levels, but in months when I would take on an additional project, I noticed that I wasn’t adding too many more hours to my work week, I was just forced to manage my time more effectively.

4. I made sure that I was actually billing for the hours I worked.

I graduated college with the mentality that if you got a job — any job — you were incredibly lucky to have it. (And of course, I am extremely grateful for every job I’ve had.) But I think because I was so desperate to get work in my first few professional years, I was willing to do extra work in order to do the best job I could, but I felt that asking for compensation for those additional hours would be “overstepping.” Ultimately, I’ve had more than one boss help me realize that this is flawed logic, and if I’m working, I should be billing.

5. When I was overbooked, I tried to accommodate as much extra work as possible.

Too many people have told me that freelancing is either feast or famine, and unfortunately, it’s a cliché for a reason. When the great opportunities show up, they tend to show up all at once, which means you occasionally need to overextend yourself to accommodate everything. However, when this has happened to me, I’ve valued the opportunities enough to make them all work in my schedule, which makes for a busy few months, but is another great way to increase your revenue.