Michael Jackson's Daughter Says He Was 'Absolutely' Murdered
Michael Jackson's Daughter Says He Was 'Absolutely' Murdered
For her very first in-depth interview, Paris Jackson joined for an expansive cover story discussion on her growing career and memories of her late father, Michael Jackson . Paris even spoke on the circumstances surrounding her father's death, presenting her belief that he was set up by an unnamed party. Michael's death, Paris asserted to 's Brian Hiatt, was "absolutely" a murder. "Absolutely," Paris said . "Because it's obvious. All arrows point to that. It sounds like a total conspiracy theory and it sounds like bullshit, but all real fans and everybody in the family knows it. It was a setup. It was bullshit." Though Paris declined to give names, she tell that "a lot of people" wanted her father dead. My sis is KILLIN IT!! Paris Jackson on the cover of Rolling Stone!! Michael Jackson would be proud of ya darling! ❤ #RollingStone  pic.twitter.com/SJJXhqjoMC The path to justice, Paris added , is a chess game. "And I am trying to play the chess game the right way," she said. "And that's all I can say about that right now." Paris also spoke at length about Michael's continued influence on her life. "My dad raised me in a very open-minded house," she told  . "I was eight years old, in love with this female on the cover of a magazine. Instead of yelling at me, like most homophobic parents, he was making fun of me, like, 'Oh, you got yourself a girlfriend.'" The full interview, which is very much worth your time, can be found right here. Michael Jackson died in 2009 at the age of 50, just weeks before he was scheduled to kick off his highly anticipated This Is It shows. Dr. Conrad Murray, Michael's personal doctor, was later charged with involuntary manslaughter. Murray was convicted and sentenced to four years in jail in 2011,  reported . In 2013, Murray was released on good behavior .

For her very first in-depth interview, Paris Jackson joined Rolling Stone for an expansive cover story discussion on her growing career and memories of her late father, Michael Jackson. Paris even spoke on the circumstances surrounding her father's death, presenting her belief that he was set up by an unnamed party. Michael's death, Paris asserted to Rolling Stone's Brian Hiatt, was "absolutely" a murder.

"Absolutely," Paris said. "Because it's obvious. All arrows point to that. It sounds like a total conspiracy theory and it sounds like bullshit, but all real fans and everybody in the family knows it. It was a setup. It was bullshit." Though Paris declined to give names, she did tell Rolling Stone that "a lot of people" wanted her father dead.

My sis is KILLIN IT!! Paris Jackson on the cover of Rolling Stone!! Michael Jackson would be proud of ya darling! ❤#RollingStone pic.twitter.com/SJJXhqjoMC — Shaniece Cole (@SupaWomnSupaFly) January 24, 2017

The path to justice, Paris added, is a chess game. "And I am trying to play the chess game the right way," she said. "And that's all I can say about that right now."

Paris also spoke at length about Michael's continued influence on her life. "My dad raised me in a very open-minded house," she told Rolling Stone. "I was eight years old, in love with this female on the cover of a magazine. Instead of yelling at me, like most homophobic parents, he was making fun of me, like, 'Oh, you got yourself a girlfriend.'" The full interview, which is very much worth your time, can be found right here.

Michael Jackson died in 2009 at the age of 50, just weeks before he was scheduled to kick off his highly anticipated This Is It shows. Dr. Conrad Murray, Michael's personal doctor, was later charged with involuntary manslaughter. Murray was convicted and sentenced to four years in jail in 2011, CNN reported. In 2013, Murray was released on good behavior.