Interest rate rises boost bank profit margins at customers' expense



Interest rate rises boost bank profit margins at customers' expense

Posted

Having held on to their margins as interest rates fell last year, Australian banks could hit pay-dirt if the cycle rolls over and rates start to rise again.

Recent solid economic data and a belief that inflation may have bottomed, has led the market to pretty well ditch the idea of the Reserve Bank cutting rates again this year.

On current betting - via the ASX 30-day interbank cash rate futures - a full 25-basis-point rise has been priced in by May next year.

Although those expectations took a little bit of a dent from weaker-than-expected inflation figures from the ABS.

A 'growing chasm' between RBA and bank rates

Conventional wisdom has bank margins and profitability rising with rising official rates as they benefit from the favourable spread between the short term money banks use and the longer term money parked by their depositors.

A cut in official rates generally has the opposite effect of eroding margins.

But then that is were where the quaint industry term "loan repricing" comes in.

Loan repricing is the in-vogue euphemism describing the banks' practice of holding back the benefits of official rate cuts from being passed on to their customers in full.

Research from the interest rate comparison website Mozo shows the big banks increased their margins above the cash rate across virtually every retail bank product last year, while the RBA cut rates by 50 basis points from 2 per cent to 1.5 per cent.

Big four bank rates v RBA cash rate December 2015 Margin over cash rate December 2016 Margin over cash rate Margin increase in 2016 RBA cash rate 2pc 1.5pc Credit card purchase rate 18.99pc 16.89pc 18.88pc 17.38pc 0.49pc Standard variable mortgage rate 5.61pc 3.61pc 5.25pc 3.75pc 0.14pc Unsecured personal loan 14.02pc 12.02pc 14.16pc 12.66pc 0.64pc At call savings 2.21pc 0.21pc 1.61pc 0.11pc -0.1pc One-year term deposit 2.4pc 0.4pc 2.3pc 0.8pc 0.4pc Source: Mozo Source: Mozo

The banks argue that their funding reality is somewhat divorced from the RBA's cash rate because of the dependency on offshore wholesale markets.

However, that is slightly disingenuous as the big four still get most of their funding from deposits, and there is a strong correlation between the cash rate and deposit rates.

Mozo's head of product research Peter Marshall said a growing chasm emerged between official rates and retail product rates as banks battled to build capital reserves last year.

The margin for a standard variable home loan grew by 0.14 percentage points, according to Mozo.

Margins on credit cards increased by almost 0.5 percentage points, with average interest rate now 17.38 percentage points above the cash rate.

"The outlook for 2017 is pretty bleak when it comes to home loans," Mr Marshall said.

"We expect the big banks will take every opportunity they get to increase their margins further over the cash rate so long as they are reporting that their profits are being squeezed."

Term deposits were the only products where customers were winners, as banks enticed customers to lock away their cash with higher interest rates.

At the same time savings rates were slashed to a little over 0.1 percentage point over the cash rate.

"The main driver has been the capital adequacy ratio changes to increase the amount of stable funding available (to the banks)," Mr Marshall argued.

"At call deposits don't qualify (as top tier capital), term deposits do."

Loan repricing and higher interest rates will drive up profits

The battle to maintain margins in a climate of falling interest rates, while fighting for new business, has been tough for the banks, but perhaps tougher for existing mortgage holders where the bulk of the "repricing" has been going on.

In effect, not passing on the full cuts to existing home loans is subsiding discounts being offered to new customers according to Velocity Trade bank analyst Brett Le Mesurier.

The banks need new home loans to keep investors satisfied there is still growth in their bedrock business.

Any slippage in mortgage growth will put the banks' share prices under the pump.

"The principal effect is a lot of margin decline from their own competitive behaviour ... with the banks trying to recoup it across a range of products," Mr Le Mesurier said.

It is one reason why analysts believe bank margins are likely to flat-line this year.

Morgan Stanley's Richard Wiles told clients recently that bank margins were likely to remain under pressure due to of a variety of factors, including one more cut from the RBA, the ongoing squeeze in term deposit spreads and further discounting on new loans not being totally offset by "repricing".

However, the prospects of the next movement from the RBA being up, not down, as well as more home loan repricing was modelled as well.

A flat result on margins, that is 2017 being in line with the second half of 2016, would see profit forecasts edged by just 1 per cent.

However, a 5 basis point lift - not a huge ask - would see profit forecasts increase by around 5 per cent, which would translate to a pretty handy $1.5 billion extra across the big four.

Topics: banking, consumer-finance, australia