Nutritionist on what you SHOULDN'T be having for breakfast
Leading nutritionist on what you SHOULDN'T be having for breakfast


Whether you're positive, negative or on the fence about breaking the fast with food first thing in the morning, you can't deny that breakfast gets a lot of press.

And with everything from croissants to poached eggs and even breakfast salads filling the shelves at the supermarkets, it can be daunting to know what to eat for your first meal.

FEMAIL spoke to leading Sydney-based nutritionist, Lyndi Cohen, about what you should and shouldn't be eating for breakfast.

While many might think yoghurts, all mueslis and breakfast bars are fair game, you might be surprised to hear what the experts have to say.

FEMAIL speaks to leading Sydney-based nutritionist, Lyndi Cohen (pictured), about what you should and shouldn't be eating for breakfast

Breakfast is often a hot topic of discussion in the press - whether you should have it, or shouldn't, what you should eat and avoid (stock photo)

TO BREAKFAST OR NOT TO BREAKFAST? * While historically, nutritionists have deemed breakfast 'the most important meal of the day', in recent times it has come under fire. * New research suggests it's not as important as it was once heralded. * According to leading Sydney nutritionist, Lyndi Cohen: 'Generally I don't think you need to be eating breakfast'. * 'It's been proven that if you're under 18, you need to eat breakfast to improve cognitive function, but for adults, it's more important to listen to your body than the clock.'

YOGHURTS

According to Ms Cohen, yoghurt isn't always the dietary angel that many people assume.

'Yoghurt can be a great form of calcium, which many women need, but generally the sweetened options in the shops aren't as good for you,' she said.

Instead, try the unsweetened or Greek full fat varieties and flavour them with nuts and fruit.

Ms Cohen advocates reading the ingredients list whenever you're not sure how much sugar is in something, and being aware that many companies will use multiple words for the word sugar:

'Molasses, glucose, syrup and more are all words companies use for sugar. Beware!,' she said.

One of the best breakfasts you can eat is eggs or avocado on wholegrain toast (pictured), but Ms Cohen said it pays to be wary of yoghurts - especially the sweetened varieties

'Yoghurt can be a great form of calcium, which many women need,' Ms Cohen (pictured), said, but she says Greek, unsweetened and full fat varieties are best

According to Ms Cohen, while cereal can be good for you, it can also be hard to get right, as many companies use different words for sugar - porridge is always a good shout (pictured)

CEREALS

For decades, cereals such as muesli, cornflakes and rice puffs or bubbles have been the staple of many people's breakfasts.

However, when it comes to what they do to your waistline, the facts may force you to think twice.

'If you're going to eat cereal, I recommend wholegrain versions such as All Bran, Sultana Bran and dry toasted mueslis,' Ms Cohen said.

A good test of whether or not your cereal is healthy is to see how quickly it dissolves in your milk

'Dry toasted mueslis generally come without added sugars and are much better for your health.

'A good test of whether or not your cereal is healthy is to see how quickly it dissolves in your milk. Some, such as rice bubbles or Crunchy Nut cornflakes, can dissolve super quickly - and leave a sugary, unhealthy milk behind them.'

Ms Cohen said your safest bet is porridge, which can be sweetened with fruit and nuts.

'Naturally-occurring sugars are good for you,' she said.

'A good test of whether or not your cereal is healthy is to see how quickly it dissolves in your milk,' Ms Cohen said

Ms Cohen believes if you can get vegetables into your breakfast, you're onto a winner (pictured) - she loves eating chickpeas

PASTRIES

While most people know that pastries such as croissants and pains au chocolat aren't the healthiest choice when you first wake up, that doesn't stop so many of us reaching for them when we order a coffee in a cafe at 8am.

'Pastries do very little for your health apart from taste good,' Ms Cohen said.

'While I don't call any foods "bad", I do think these should be seen as weekend treats rather then everyday foods.'

Wholegrain toast paired with boiled or poached eggs, spinach and avocado are much better morning shouts than porridge.

Even better, they should keep you full until lunch, too.

Ms Cohen said you should try to avoid pastries unless it's a special treat, and instead eat things like eggs and avocado (pictured) - which keep you full until lunch

In general, Ms Cohen stays away from breakfast bars (stock photo) - she said that it is possible to get them right, but there are so many which are packed with sugars

CEREAL BARS

According to many nutritionists, cereal bars bought from the shops are to be avoided at all costs.

Packed with sugars, artificial sweeteners and bad things, while they seem like a quick fix, in reality they're anything but.

'I stay away from the snack bar aisle and breakfast bars in general as while it is possible to get it right, it's pretty difficult,' Ms Cohen said.

'I'm a big fan of a banana and some nuts; just as convenient, but much better nutritionally.'

It's also worth avoiding breakfast drinks such as fruit smoothies and juices if they don't fill you up, as you'll just consume more later anyway.

'In general, I believe if you can find ways to have veggies at breakfast, then you're doing well,' Ms Cohen said.

'Bizarrely, I love chickpeas in the morning!'.

To read more from Lyndi Cohen, you can visit her website here.