Amazing moment polar bear pops its head into Arctic boat
Polar bear pops head into an Arctic boat's kitchen for a bite to eat


Friendly neighbours often pop round to say hello, and it seems that policy even extends to the Arctic - and its resident polar bears.

An astonishing photograph has emerged that caught one of the huge animals visiting crew members on Lance, a Norwegian Polar Institute vessel, for a bite to eat.

They were cooking up waffles to go with their afternoon coffee when they were greeted at the kitchen port hole by an adult bear.

An astonishing photograph has emerged that caught a polar bear visiting crew memebers on Lance, a Norwegian Polar Institute vessel, for a bite to eat

Instead of shooing the giant predator away, they decided to offer a show of goodwill by handing over a fillet of fish.

They also managed to snap a picture of the moment.

It was taken 17 years ago but was recently posted to Reddit by user Johnny_love, where it received thousands of comments.

The Norwegian Polar Institute told MailOnline Travel: 'The photographer as well as the person on the photo are crew members, not scientists - actually they were not employed by the NPI but by the company running the ship. This would not be acceptable behaviour today.'

Lance is a research and expedition vessel that is mainly used by the Norwegian Polar Institute for research purposes.

It can also be privately hired for parties and cruises during the summer months, when there is 24 hours of daylight.

During the summer season Lance boat docks at Longyearbyen in Svalbard (pictured), a Norwegian archipelago between mainland Norway and the North Pole that is one of the world’s northernmost inhabited areas

The Norwegian boat docks at Tromsø, Norway, and usually tours the Arctic sea but it has also made several trips to the Antarctic.

During the summer season the boat docks at Longyearbyen in Svalbard, a Norwegian archipelago between mainland Norway and the North Pole that is one of the world’s northernmost inhabited areas.

The area is home to plenty of wildlife, including polar bears, reindeer and Arctic foxes.