This food recycler will turn your food scraps into fertilizer
This food recycler will turn your food scraps into fertilizer
Say goodbye to stinky composting… Whirlpool has debuted the Zera Food Recycler. The new kitchen appliance lets you recycle your food scraps right in your kitchen. You can just sweep all your leftovers, except bones and pits, right into the bin. A carbon filter is used to reduce odor, and a plant-based additive helps in the breakdown process. After about a week you’ll get a pile of fresh-made fertilizer for your lawn or garden. The convenience of recycling your food yourself is not cheap… Zera will retail for $1,199, but for a limited time you can purchase it through Indiegogo for $699. Source: https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/zera-food-recycler-recycling–2#/ For more Trending Tech: Industrial robot technology may soon be in your home Wristband monitors your blood alcohol content while you drink Breast-pumping moms can now go wireless The world’s first 3-screen gaming laptop is mind-blowing Netflix has just helped improve your commute Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game Your next food delivery order could come from a robot You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish Amazon offers special deals through Alexa WhatsApp video calling is finally here Sold-out Snapchat sunglasses already on eBay You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain

Say goodbye to stinky composting…

Whirlpool has debuted the Zera Food Recycler.

The new kitchen appliance lets you recycle your food scraps right in your kitchen.

You can just sweep all your leftovers, except bones and pits, right into the bin.

A carbon filter is used to reduce odor, and a plant-based additive helps in the breakdown process.

After about a week you’ll get a pile of fresh-made fertilizer for your lawn or garden.

The convenience of recycling your food yourself is not cheap…

Zera will retail for $1,199, but for a limited time you can purchase it through Indiegogo for $699.

Source: https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/zera-food-recycler-recycling–2#/

For more Trending Tech:

Industrial robot technology may soon be in your home

Wristband monitors your blood alcohol content while you drink

Breast-pumping moms can now go wireless

The world’s first 3-screen gaming laptop is mind-blowing

Netflix has just helped improve your commute

Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game

Your next food delivery order could come from a robot

You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do

This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage

You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM

Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting

You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish

Amazon offers special deals through Alexa

WhatsApp video calling is finally here

Sold-out Snapchat sunglasses already on eBay

You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone

Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar

This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night

New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go

Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain