Mirjana Lucic-Baroni to Meet Serena Williams in Australian Open Semifinals
Mirjana Lucic-Baroni to Meet Serena Williams in Australian Open Semifinals
MELBOURNE, Australia — By the end, everyone left on the court seemed to be in tears, including Mirjana Lucic-Baroni, one of the unlikeliest Australian Open semifinalists in memory, and her television interviewer, Rennae Stubbs. “This has truly made my life, everything bad that happened, it has made it O.K.,” Lucic-Baroni said. She was fighting to complete her sentences on Wednesday, just as she has had to fight through family troubles, injuries and other obstacles , just as she had just fought to hold off Karolina Pliskova, the powerful fifth-seeded Czech who was the big favorite, by 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. It has been quite an Open on many levels, full of great tennis stories with Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Venus Williams resurgent and outsiders like Denis Istomin and Mischa Zverev pulling off major men’s upsets. Advertisement But perhaps no story here is more poignant than that of the 34-year-old Croatian Lucic-Baroni’s fulfilling some of the great potential she showed as a teenager. Advertisement “To me, this is overwhelming,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I will never forget this day and these couple of weeks.” "This has truly made my life...it has made it okay." #LucicBaroni  #AusOpen  pic.twitter.com/SeE9ePoqOo  Ranked just 79th, she is one of two unseeded players to reach the Australian Open women’s semifinals this year, joining CoCo Vandeweghe, a 25-year-old who will face Williams on Thursday. Lucic-Baroni will play Williams’s sister, No. 2 Serena Williams, who beat No. 9 Johanna Konta, 6-2, 6-3, later in the day. “I’m going to try to stay calm,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I enjoyed every second out here, and I will try to do the same next time.” Konta, a British player born in Australia, was considered a potential threat to Serena Williams because of her all-court game, athleticism and excellent recent results. (She won the Sydney tournament earlier this month.) But there are few tennis challenges that Williams enjoys more than taking on a next-generation talent for the first time on a big stage. Despite putting only 45 percent of her first serves in play, she was an irresistible force, breaking Konta four times and producing crisp winners, sharp angles and consistent intensity. She has been moving well, particularly laterally. “She’s able to really hit her spots incredibly well,” Konta said after her first experience facing Serena. “So the way she’s able to open up the court, it really makes the court very big. She obviously has tremendous power, force and speed. I think she’s covered all the bases.” Advertisement Konta, who sounded congested after the match, was asked whether she had a cold. “No, I was crying, so I’m a bit blocked up,” she said. Tears and all, she still called the match “probably one of the best experiences of my life.” A match with Williams can elicit all sorts of emotions, and the semifinal with Lucic-Baroni should be brimming with them. Though they played in the International Premier Tennis League in 2015, they have not played a tour-level match since the second round of Wimbledon in 1998 when Williams won 6-3, 6-0. “We both have gone through a lot,” Williams said. “We both have survived, and here we are, which I think is a remarkable story.” Lucic-Baroni is the third-lowest-ranked woman to reach this stage of the Australian Open. Claudia Porwik of Germany in 1990 and Serena Williams in 2007 were both ranked No. 81 when they made it to the semifinals. Williams went on to win the title. Justine Henin, the former Belgian star, reached the final in 2010 without a ranking after returning to the game in Australia from an extended break. Lucic-Baroni arrived this year with a new coach — the Croatian former touring pro Marin Bradaric — and a positive attitude. “We started working together in November,” Bradaric said after the match, between congratulatory hugs with coaches and players in the corridor next to the players’ restaurant. “She was my idol when I was young.” He added: “I honestly couldn’t believe she was ranked in the 70s or 80s. For me, she had the talent to be in the 20s.” Advertisement Having gained the semifinal, she is now assured to be ranked at least 29 after the tournament. At 31, Bradaric is three years younger than Lucic-Baroni and was barely in his teens when she began finding success on the women’s circuit. Precocious and poised, she won the 1998 Australian Open women’s doubles titles with Martina Hingis and reached the semifinals of Wimbledon in singles in 1999 by wielding some of the game’s most powerful groundstrokes. Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy But her elite playing career screeched to a halt because of personal problems, and she did not appear in a Grand Slam singles event for more than seven years from 2003 to 2010. “One day, I will say a long, big story about all the things that happened to me,” she said Wednesday. “But I never dreamed about being here today.” Still, she had plenty of chances to get ahead of herself after winning the first set and jumping out to a 2-0 lead in the second by attacking Pliskova’s second serve and dictating play with her forehand. But Pliskova, who reached the United States Open final last year after beating both Williams sisters, found her range and forced a third set. It was a big-hitting match full of momentum shifts — Pliskova, 24, and Lucic-Baroni each broke serve seven times — but it did not turn for good until Lucic-Baroni left the court trailing by 3-4 in the final set and took a medical timeout for what she said was treatment on her left leg. She returned after a break of several minutes and hit sliced aces on the first two points, a first serve and forehand winner on the next and one more sliced ace to hold at love. She then broke Pliskova at love to go up by 5-4. Before Lucic-Baron came out to serve for the match, she reached into her bag on the changeover and took out a rosary to wear on the court. Advertisement “It was really difficult because, like I said, when I took the medical timeout, I wasn’t really sure how I was feeling,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I felt in that moment only God can help me. And yeah, it was just something I didn’t think about. It was just something that helped me be strong.” On match point at 40-15, Pliskova turned her back and made Lucic-Baroni wait. But what was a delay of a few seconds after an 18-year wait to return to a major semifinal? Lucic-Baroni missed her first serve, but her second found the box, and when Pliskova’s forehand return hit the net, Lucic-Baroni looked over at Bradaric and her support group and made the sign of the cross. After shaking Pliskova’s hand, Lucic-Baroni stumbled in her team’s direction again and then dropped to her knees, buried her head in her hands and began to cry. She was not alone. A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2017, on Page B9 of the with the headline: Unseeded Former Prodigy Joins a Resurgent Wave.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    ON TENNIS

“To me, this is overwhelming,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I will never forget this day and these couple of weeks.”

Ranked just 79th, she is one of two unseeded players to reach the Australian Open women’s semifinals this year, joining CoCo Vandeweghe, a 25-year-old who will face Williams on Thursday.

Lucic-Baroni will play Williams’s sister, No. 2 Serena Williams, who beat No. 9 Johanna Konta, 6-2, 6-3, later in the day.

“I’m going to try to stay calm,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I enjoyed every second out here, and I will try to do the same next time.”

Konta, a British player born in Australia, was considered a potential threat to Serena Williams because of her all-court game, athleticism and excellent recent results. (She won the Sydney tournament earlier this month.) But there are few tennis challenges that Williams enjoys more than taking on a next-generation talent for the first time on a big stage.

Photo

Despite putting only 45 percent of her first serves in play, she was an irresistible force, breaking Konta four times and producing crisp winners, sharp angles and consistent intensity. She has been moving well, particularly laterally.

“She’s able to really hit her spots incredibly well,” Konta said after her first experience facing Serena. “So the way she’s able to open up the court, it really makes the court very big. She obviously has tremendous power, force and speed. I think she’s covered all the bases.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Konta, who sounded congested after the match, was asked whether she had a cold.

“No, I was crying, so I’m a bit blocked up,” she said.

Tears and all, she still called the match “probably one of the best experiences of my life.”

A match with Williams can elicit all sorts of emotions, and the semifinal with Lucic-Baroni should be brimming with them. Though they played in the International Premier Tennis League in 2015, they have not played a tour-level match since the second round of Wimbledon in 1998 when Williams won 6-3, 6-0.

“We both have gone through a lot,” Williams said. “We both have survived, and here we are, which I think is a remarkable story.”

Lucic-Baroni is the third-lowest-ranked woman to reach this stage of the Australian Open. Claudia Porwik of Germany in 1990 and Serena Williams in 2007 were both ranked No. 81 when they made it to the semifinals. Williams went on to win the title.

Justine Henin, the former Belgian star, reached the final in 2010 without a ranking after returning to the game in Australia from an extended break.

Lucic-Baroni arrived this year with a new coach — the Croatian former touring pro Marin Bradaric — and a positive attitude.

“We started working together in November,” Bradaric said after the match, between congratulatory hugs with coaches and players in the corridor next to the players’ restaurant. “She was my idol when I was young.”

He added: “I honestly couldn’t believe she was ranked in the 70s or 80s. For me, she had the talent to be in the 20s.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Having gained the semifinal, she is now assured to be ranked at least 29 after the tournament.

At 31, Bradaric is three years younger than Lucic-Baroni and was barely in his teens when she began finding success on the women’s circuit. Precocious and poised, she won the 1998 Australian Open women’s doubles titles with Martina Hingis and reached the semifinals of Wimbledon in singles in 1999 by wielding some of the game’s most powerful groundstrokes.

Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But her elite playing career screeched to a halt because of personal problems, and she did not appear in a Grand Slam singles event for more than seven years from 2003 to 2010.

“One day, I will say a long, big story about all the things that happened to me,” she said Wednesday. “But I never dreamed about being here today.”

Still, she had plenty of chances to get ahead of herself after winning the first set and jumping out to a 2-0 lead in the second by attacking Pliskova’s second serve and dictating play with her forehand.

But Pliskova, who reached the United States Open final last year after beating both Williams sisters, found her range and forced a third set.

It was a big-hitting match full of momentum shifts — Pliskova, 24, and Lucic-Baroni each broke serve seven times — but it did not turn for good until Lucic-Baroni left the court trailing by 3-4 in the final set and took a medical timeout for what she said was treatment on her left leg.

She returned after a break of several minutes and hit sliced aces on the first two points, a first serve and forehand winner on the next and one more sliced ace to hold at love.

She then broke Pliskova at love to go up by 5-4. Before Lucic-Baron came out to serve for the match, she reached into her bag on the changeover and took out a rosary to wear on the court.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It was really difficult because, like I said, when I took the medical timeout, I wasn’t really sure how I was feeling,” Lucic-Baroni said. “I felt in that moment only God can help me. And yeah, it was just something I didn’t think about. It was just something that helped me be strong.”

On match point at 40-15, Pliskova turned her back and made Lucic-Baroni wait. But what was a delay of a few seconds after an 18-year wait to return to a major semifinal? Lucic-Baroni missed her first serve, but her second found the box, and when Pliskova’s forehand return hit the net, Lucic-Baroni looked over at Bradaric and her support group and made the sign of the cross.

After shaking Pliskova’s hand, Lucic-Baroni stumbled in her team’s direction again and then dropped to her knees, buried her head in her hands and began to cry.

She was not alone.