Airliner causes rare fallstreak hole in clouds above South Australia's Riverland



Airliner causes rare fallstreak hole in clouds above South Australia's Riverland

Updated

Residents in South Australia's Riverland region may have spotted something quirky in the sky this morning, after an unusual cloud formation appeared over Lake Bonney at Barmera.

A fallstreak hole or hole punch cloud is a large, generally circular, gap in the clouds.

The hole is caused when a plane passes through clouds in the upper atmosphere, which is at temperatures below freezing, but the water has not frozen.

Meteorologist Matthew Bass said it was a rare phenomenon because the cloud must be in liquid form and below zero degrees Celsius.

"What [the plane] actually did was cause that liquid water in the clouds to freeze into ice particles and those ice particles basically fall down and leave quite a hole where the plane has been," he said.

"It's reasonably rare in that you get a layer of smooth upper atmosphere cloud that actually has these supercooled liquid water vapour droplets.

"To get a plane going through in the right conditions will actually cause these hole punch clouds, so it's something that you'll actually only see a couple of times a year over Australia.

"It's quite an interesting phenomenon, which shows up pretty well on our satellite and can make for some pretty interesting photographs from the ground too."

He said because the phenomenon was so rare, some people thought they were UFOs. He said he would occasionally get some funny questions from members of the public.

But the Bureau of Meteorology said, on this occasion, the aircraft responsible was Emirates Flight 409, which was travelling from Melbourne to Dubai.

"Being a phenomenon that is only really caused by plane it's a bit of a manmade [event]," Mr Bass said.

"In the atmosphere you can actually get supercooled water so between zero and -40 degrees Celsius, water can actually remain in a liquid state believe it or not ... and that's what that cloud was over the Riverland this morning."

He said fallstreak holes were most likely to appear over southern Australia - primarily Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia - because it was those states with the most suitable atmospheric conditions.

Topics: weather, offbeat, sa, barmera-5345, renmark-5341

First posted