Sprint's Investment In Jay Z's Tidal: Prelude To A Bigger Deal?
Sprint's Investment In Jay Z's Tidal: Prelude To A Bigger Deal?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack O'Malley Greenburg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Empire State of Mind: Jay Z's recent Tidal-Sprint deal may only be the beginning. (Photo by Duane Prokop/Getty Images) Yesterday, news  broke that Jay Z had sold 33% of his Tidal streaming service to Sprint for a reported $200 million. The deal represents an impressive return on investment: he initially purchased the Scandinavian company for $56 million two years ago. Jay Z may not be done dealing. One need only read between the lines: "Together we are excited to bring Sprint’s 45 million customers an unmatched entertainment experience," he said in a joint statement with Sprint. Mentions of the carrier's 45 million customers also popped up in the headline of the release and in its first paragraph. That's likely not a coincidence, but an indication of the reasons both sides did this deal. On the Tidal end, the number represents a shiny new figure to replace its own small (and disputed ) subscriber count. For Sprint, the emphasis is perhaps an attempt to justify the $200 million outlay, which looks a little more reasonable when thought of as a bit more than $4 per customer. Together, though, Tidal and Sprint's 45 million-plus base makes Tidal much more appealing for what could be the next step: a buyout by the likes of Spotify or Apple. For the former, which is moving toward a long-rumored IPO, buying Tidal could now be seen as part of a growth story--a way to drastically increase its reach, something that's usually music to Wall Street's ears. For Apple, a buyout could close the gap between itself and Spotify in the battle for biggest streaming service. Another player like Amazon, Google or Pandora shouldn't be ruled out, either. To be fair, it's not entirely clear what sort of access those 45 million customers will have in regard to Tidal. Will they get the app for free, or just a discount on the service? Even if the app automatically appears on their phones, will consumers be annoyed-- like they were when Apple gave them a free U2 album ? Should these be considered paid or unpaid subscribers? All of the above would make placing a proper valuation on Tidal tricky, as there's no easy way to make an apples-to-apples comparison between streaming services with drastically different sorts of subscribers. What's clear, though, is that Tidal has been given not only a lifeline, but a war chest that should enable it to avoid rushing into a fire sale. It's worth noting that Jay Z's move puts Tidal on a trajectory similar to that of Dr. Dre's Beats--handset maker HTC bought half of that company for $300 million in 2011, valuing the headphone company at the same $600 million number that Tidal's got now, before eventually selling its stake back to Dre and company. Beats took an additional $500 million investment from private equity giant Carlyle in September 2013 before selling the company outright to Apple for $3 billion the following spring. By that time, of course, it boasted a streaming service of its own; the acquisition helped form the basis of what is now Apple Music. Could Jay Z's company be destined for a similar fate? Don't bet against it. Hip-Hop's Wealthiest Artists 2016    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Inside the Homes of the 2017 Golden Globe Award Nominees

Yesterday, news broke that Jay Z had sold 33% of his Tidal streaming service to Sprint for a reported $200 million. The deal represents an impressive return on investment: he initially purchased the Scandinavian company for $56 million two years ago.

Jay Z may not be done dealing. One need only read between the lines: "Together we are excited to bring Sprint’s 45 million customers an unmatched entertainment experience," he said in a joint statement with Sprint.

Mentions of the carrier's 45 million customers also popped up in the headline of the release and in its first paragraph. That's likely not a coincidence, but an indication of the reasons both sides did this deal. On the Tidal end, the number represents a shiny new figure to replace its own small (and disputed) subscriber count. For Sprint, the emphasis is perhaps an attempt to justify the $200 million outlay, which looks a little more reasonable when thought of as a bit more than $4 per customer.

Together, though, Tidal and Sprint's 45 million-plus base makes Tidal much more appealing for what could be the next step: a buyout by the likes of Spotify or Apple. For the former, which is moving toward a long-rumored IPO, buying Tidal could now be seen as part of a growth story--a way to drastically increase its reach, something that's usually music to Wall Street's ears. For Apple, a buyout could close the gap between itself and Spotify in the battle for biggest streaming service. Another player like Amazon, Google or Pandora shouldn't be ruled out, either.

To be fair, it's not entirely clear what sort of access those 45 million customers will have in regard to Tidal. Will they get the app for free, or just a discount on the service? Even if the app automatically appears on their phones, will consumers be annoyed--like they were when Apple gave them a free U2 album? Should these be considered paid or unpaid subscribers?

All of the above would make placing a proper valuation on Tidal tricky, as there's no easy way to make an apples-to-apples comparison between streaming services with drastically different sorts of subscribers. What's clear, though, is that Tidal has been given not only a lifeline, but a war chest that should enable it to avoid rushing into a fire sale.

It's worth noting that Jay Z's move puts Tidal on a trajectory similar to that of Dr. Dre's Beats--handset maker HTC bought half of that company for $300 million in 2011, valuing the headphone company at the same $600 million number that Tidal's got now, before eventually selling its stake back to Dre and company.

Beats took an additional $500 million investment from private equity giant Carlyle in September 2013 before selling the company outright to Apple for $3 billion the following spring. By that time, of course, it boasted a streaming service of its own; the acquisition helped form the basis of what is now Apple Music.

Could Jay Z's company be destined for a similar fate? Don't bet against it.

For more on the business of entertainment, check out my Jay Z biography and sign up for my email updates.