Hacker who stole nude photos of Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities jailed for nine months
Hacker who stole nude photos of Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities jailed for nine months
An Illinois man was sentenced to nine months in federal prison on Tuesday for breaking into the email and online storage of celebrities to obtain their private photos and videos, according to the US Attorney's office. Edward Majerczyk, 29, who pleaded guilty to felony computer hacking charges last year, will begin serving his sentence on 27 February, said Joseph Fitzpatrick, a spokesman for Zach Fardon, US Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Majerczyk's attorney, Thomas Needham, could not immediately be reached for comment. While no victims were named in court documents, the investigation began after Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities, including actresses Kirsten Dunst and Gabrielle Union and model Kate Upton, complained in interviews about having their private photos end up publicly disseminated online. Female celebrities affected by 'The Fappening' hack               Female celebrities affected by 'The Fappening' hack    Jennifer Lawrence       Ariane Grande       Victoria Justice       Kirsten Dunst       Kate Upton    Read more Hacker who stole nude photos of countless celebrities jailed Man pleads guilty to iCloud celebrity nude leak Nude images leaked, billionaires caught in 'comprising' situations "At the time of the offense, Mr Majerczyk was suffering from depression and looked to pornography websites and Internet chat rooms in an attempt to fill some of the voids and disappointment he was feeling in his life," Mr Needham wrote in a sentencing memorandum filed on 19 January. Mr Needham added that Majerczyk had "consistently expressed remorse," for the hacking. Majerczyk pleaded guilty in September to federal computer hacking charges but, the Justice Department and Mr Needham said investigators had not uncovered any evidence linking Majerczyk to the actual leaks. The hacked material was for Majerczyk's personal use and his viewing, Mr Needham said in the memorandum. According to a plea agreement signed by Majerczyk, he illegally accessed accounts on Apple Inc's iCloud and Alphabet Inc's Google Gmail accounts belonging to more than 300 people, using an email "phishing" ploy to obtain their user names and passwords. Through this scheme, Majerczyk was able to access full iCloud backups belonging to numerous victims, including at least 30 celebrities, many of whom reside in the Los Angeles area, the plea agreement stated. Majerczyk, who resides in Chicago and Orland Park, Illinois, was originally charged in Los Angeles, but his case was transferred to Illinois as part of his plea agreement. More about: The Fappening Jennifer Lawrence Kate Upton Kirsten Dunst

An Illinois man was sentenced to nine months in federal prison on Tuesday for breaking into the email and online storage of celebrities to obtain their private photos and videos, according to the US Attorney's office.

Edward Majerczyk, 29, who pleaded guilty to felony computer hacking charges last year, will begin serving his sentence on 27 February, said Joseph Fitzpatrick, a spokesman for Zach Fardon, US Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois.

Majerczyk's attorney, Thomas Needham, could not immediately be reached for comment.

While no victims were named in court documents, the investigation began after Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities, including actresses Kirsten Dunst and Gabrielle Union and model Kate Upton, complained in interviews about having their private photos end up publicly disseminated online.

"At the time of the offense, Mr Majerczyk was suffering from depression and looked to pornography websites and Internet chat rooms in an attempt to fill some of the voids and disappointment he was feeling in his life," Mr Needham wrote in a sentencing memorandum filed on 19 January.

Mr Needham added that Majerczyk had "consistently expressed remorse," for the hacking.

Majerczyk pleaded guilty in September to federal computer hacking charges but, the Justice Department and Mr Needham said investigators had not uncovered any evidence linking Majerczyk to the actual leaks.

The hacked material was for Majerczyk's personal use and his viewing, Mr Needham said in the memorandum.

Reddit attempts to ban The Fappening

According to a plea agreement signed by Majerczyk, he illegally accessed accounts on Apple Inc's iCloud and Alphabet Inc's Google Gmail accounts belonging to more than 300 people, using an email "phishing" ploy to obtain their user names and passwords.

Through this scheme, Majerczyk was able to access full iCloud backups belonging to numerous victims, including at least 30 celebrities, many of whom reside in the Los Angeles area, the plea agreement stated.

Majerczyk, who resides in Chicago and Orland Park, Illinois, was originally charged in Los Angeles, but his case was transferred to Illinois as part of his plea agreement.

Reuters