Watch Mike Myers and Jimmy Fallon Compete in USA vs. Canada Dance-Off on 'Tonight Show'
Watch Mike Myers and Jimmy Fallon Compete in USA vs. Canada Dance-Off on 'Tonight Show'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Watch Mike Myers and Jimmy Fallon Compete in USA vs. Canada Dance-Off on 'Tonight Show'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Which country is home to the best dance moves: the U.S. or Canada? and Mike Myers made it their duty to find out on Tuesday's Tonight Show, participating in a USA vs. Canada "Dice Dance-Off." Each of the comedians (in track suits with their home countries' names on the front) rolled the dice, and demonstrated whatever made-up dance move appeared on top.  Myers started off, showing off his skills with the "perpetual motion" dance move along with the "hot poutine." Fallon shined with "the which pocket did I put my keys in?" move, but Myers wasn't impressed: "Not bad for an American," he said. "Check this oot." In the end, they put aside their differences to dance together to the "slip n slide." Watch the video below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Which country is home to the best dance moves: the U.S. or Canada?

Jimmy Fallon and Mike Myers made it their duty to find out on Tuesday's Tonight Show, participating in a USA vs. Canada "Dice Dance-Off."

Each of the comedians (in track suits with their home countries' names on the front) rolled the dice, and demonstrated whatever made-up dance move appeared on top.

Myers started off, showing off his skills with the "perpetual motion" dance move along with the "hot poutine."

Fallon shined with "the which pocket did I put my keys in?" move, but Myers wasn't impressed: "Not bad for an American," he said. "Check this oot."

In the end, they put aside their differences to dance together to the "slip n slide."

Watch the video below.

