Dow Jones breaks 20,000 for first time ever and global stocks hit 19-month high as markets reignite 'Trump rally'
Dow Jones breaks 20,000 for first time ever and global stocks hit 19-month high as markets reignite 'Trump rally'
he Dow Jones smashed the landmark 20,000 barrier for the first time ever this afternoon as optimism about Trump’s pro-growth policies boosted financial markets. Resuming a rally that began in the wake of Donald Trump’s shock US presidential election win, the index rose by as much as 0.73pc to 20,057.89. The rally was reignited by Trump’s signing of numerous executive orders since his inauguration on Friday. Last night, he also tweeted about his intention to build a wall on the Mexican border. he Dow Jones has surged by more than 10pc since November and it came within a whisker of touching the historic 20,000 mark on January 6. It fell in the run up to Trump’s inauguration as traders grew cautious of his protectionist policies and sought clarity on the administration’s new policies. It has taken the index just two short months, or 42 sessions, to climb from the first close above 19,000 to 20,000. It’s worth noting the rise between 18,000 and 19,000 took some 483 trading sessions. The biggest winners of the Trump rally include investment banks Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan, rising by 34pc and 26pc, respectively, amid hopes Trump’s fiscal stimulus package will trigger inflation and stoke a rise in interest rates. Neil Wilson, of ETX Capital, said: "It’s psychologically huge and, after a bit of pullback ahead of the inauguration, really confirms that the ‘great rotation' from bonds to stocks is definitely upon us. Fears about protectionism are running second to optimism about inflation and growth – for now at least."  Markets wrap: Dow Jones breaks 20,000 as Trump's pro-growth policies reignite post-election rally he Dow Jones Industrial Average broke through 20,000 for the first time in its 131-year history after a series of executive orders from US President Donald Trump reignited a post-election rally. After flirting and demurring for the last month, the index finally crossed the psychological barrier as the opening bell sounded on Wall Street. It jumped by as much as 0.85pc to an all-time high of 20,082. The post-election rally roared back to life across financial markets worldwide as traders bet the US President will now press ahead with a large fiscal spending package after signing executive orders to reduce regulatory burden on domestic manufacturers and clearing the way for the construction of two oil pipelines. ince Trump’s shock election win in November, bullish sentiment has propelled the index 12pc higher. On January 6, the Dow came within a whisker of the landmark level, falling 0.37 points short of 20,000, as investors banked on tax cuts and pro-growth policies from the new administration. Despite a slight pullback ahead of Trump’s inauguration as investors grew cautious of his protectionist policies and sought clarity on his policies, the Dow soon regained momentum. WATCH: The moment that the Dow hit 20,000 for the first time ever pic.twitter.com/0fvzncrKtP he milestone comes almost 18 years after it reached the 10,000 level on March 16, 1999. However, its latest breakthrough comes just two months, or 42 trading sessions, after it touched 19,000. The rise between 18,000 and 19,000 took 483 trading sessions. Chris Beauchamp, of IG, said the rally in the Dow is a sign that the long-term bull market “remains intact”. Here's how the FT covered the Dow hitting 10,000 on March 16, 1999 https://t.co/laVUcW5L2I  pic.twitter.com/nMz4tCo2NK S investment banks emerged the biggest winners from the Trump rally, with Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan racking up gains of 34pc and 26pc, respectively amid hopes the President’s spending plans will trigger inflation and stoke a rise in interest rates. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite indexes also hit record intraday highs, rising by as much as 0.95pc and 0.79pc, respectively. Touching 2,298 in intraday trade, the S&P 500 is just two points shy from touching Goldman Sachs’ 2017 year-end target. Global stocks also enjoyed a renewed 'Trump-bump’, with the MSCI’s global share index rising by as much as 0.3pc to a 19-month high of 434 points. In Europe, Germany’s DAX stormed to its highest level since May 2015, up 1.8pc on the day, while the CAC in Paris rose 0.99pc and the FTSE 100 made modest gains of 0.2pc. n currency markets, a weak dollar and US trade hopes lifted the pound to a six-week high. Broad selling across the dollar in afternoon trading took the pound up by as much as 0.8pc across $1.26 against the dollar for its first time since December 14. Traders also suggested Trump’s meeting with Prime Minister Theresa May was also supporting the local currency. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of major currencies, languished at its lowest level since December 8, down 0.3pc at 100.06. Great! #Dow20K  https://t.co/wXFhXBLgag old prices tumbled 1.6pc to a one-week low of $1,193.32 an ounce as hopes Trump will unleash business-friendly spending policies eroded the precious metal’s attraction. However, the rekindled post-election euphoria may prove short lived as analysts pointed to the Baltic Dry Index, seen by many as a leading indicator of the state of the world. The index, which measures shipping costs for commodities including iron ore, copper and steel, has plunged 30pc since Trump’s election win. Neil Wilson, of ETX Capital, said the slump of late in the Baltic Dry index is “a signal that fears of protectionist policies are very high”. Baltic Dry Index, a leading indicator of the state of the world economy, sinks to two-month low (-30% since Nov18) https://t.co/YP4qggykwf  pic.twitter.com/lExa6Ns3h5  Market report: Vodafone slides on rating downgrade; CRH jumps as Trump-infrastructure rally resumes hares in tumbled towards the bottom of the blue chip index after Bank of America Merrill Lynch blamed “unrelenting headwinds” for downgrading its rating to “neutral”. The US investment bank predicts the telecoms giant will deliver “a caution message” during its upcoming third quarter results on February 2 as it has suffered multiple headwinds in recent months that are “unlikely to abate in the near-term”. A price war in India has erupted since newcomer operator Jio entered the market in September, while currency devaluations in Turkey and Egypt have weighed heavily on Vodafone’s business, prompting strategists at BoAML to cut its earnings forecasts for this year by 3.9pc. “Structural change is needed,” said BoAML, suggesting the possibility of an asset swap with Liberty and a mooted merger with Idea in India could provide “some respite”. Shares in Vodafone have fallen by more than 10pc since January 13. Yesterday, it extended its losses, closing down 6.5p at 192.9p. eanwhile, for a second consecutive day, its peer BT was in the red as a slew of downgrades followed Tuesday’s profit warning. Berenberg and Morgan Stanley slashed the stock’s price target by 21pc and 18pc respectively. Shares dipped 0.7p to 302.4p. On the wider index, the FTSE 100 snapped its losing streak, rising 14.09 points, or 0.2pc, to 7,164.43 on expectations that US President Donald Trump will press ahead with a large fiscal spending package. rish cement firm , which has been previously named among the favourites to build the wall on the Mexican border, jumped 39p to £28.95. Its peer rose 30p to £15.94. recious metals producers missed out on a share of the spoils as gold prices slumped to a one-week low on renewed hopes Trump will unleash pro-growth spending policies. dropped 62p to £14.20 and lost 225p to close at £66.30. Pharma group also lost ground, down 48p to £18.63, despite Peel Hunt initiating coverage on the stock with a “buy” rating. The broker thinks the FTSE 100 stock is poised for a “bounce-back” with an improved portfolio, adding that the sell-off on sector-thematic risks looks “overdone”. n the other side, made gains after Credit Suisse upgraded its forecasts and target price. The investment bank upped its current year earnings per share forecast by 3pc and the next two years by 10 to 12pc, reflecting “slightly improved trading” and benefits from its store closure programmes both at home and abroad. Shares jumped 8p to 342.4p. Chilean miner touched its highest level since March 2014 in intraday trading, finishing up 33.5p to 857.5p, after it stuck by its 2017 copper production target. However, its peers floundered, with Anglo American nursing a loss of 24.5p by close. BHP Billiton fell 23p to £14.58 and Rio Tinto dipped 40p to £35.75. On the mid-cap index, WH Smith rallied 104p to £15.84, its best day in eight years, on the back of strong Christmas sales in its travel business. The retailer now predicts that full-year profit growth will be slightly ahead of expectations. edged up 6.3p to 132.7p after Barclays upped its price target from 130p to 135p. Meanwhile, under-pressure Frankie & Benny’s owner surrendered 46.1p to finish at 300p following a deterioration in sales in the fourth quarter. Although the group said full-year results would be in-line with expectations, Mark Irvine-Fortescue, said he wouldn’t be surprised if ‘in-line’ means “low end” of the £74m to £80m guidance range. Finally, on Aim, raised £21m in a firm placing, sending shares 8.2pc higher, while North-Africa focused raised $40m, which it will use to buy Circle Oil’s assets in Egypt and Morocco. Dow Jones milestones on Erlichman, of CTV National News, looks back at the Dow Jones' previous milestones: Dow Jones Industrial Average milestones: 20,000: 2017 10,000: 1999 1,000: 1966 100: 1906 Hargreaves Lansdown: 'Keep a healthy slug of your portfolio in equities' fter the Trump jump propelled the Dow Jones to an unprecedented level, urges investors to keep "a healthy slug" of their portfolios in equities. "Stock indices in the US and UK may well be at or near record highs, however when the earnings generated by companies in these markets are factored in, stock valuations show neither the extreme pessimism of 2008, nor the irrational exuberance of 1999. BREAKING: Dow Jones Industrial Average hits 20,000 for the very first time ever. https://t.co/ph0SGLIXlp  pic.twitter.com/TykXH15cTm "This means they are trading somewhere in the middle of their range, so are neither exceptionally cheap or hideously expensive. In the short term the stock market could move in either direction, but for long term investors it still makes sense to keep a healthy slug of their portfolio in equities." Investors finally don their Dow 20K hats he rally since the US Presidential election is a sign that the long-term bull market remains "intact", , said this afternoon after the Dow broke 20,000. "The great day is finally here, as the Dow Jones tops 20,000 for the first time. The news has already been lauded by President Trump as a sign of the health of the American economy, although little has changed since the election or inauguration. "Instead, the 10pc rally in the Dow that has carried us this far is a sign that the long-term bull market remains intact and that talk of its demise has been greatly exaggerated." European bourses close higher as Trump trade boosts stocks uropean shares benefited from the Trump trade today as the rally that followed the US presidential election resumed. At the closing bell: FTSE 100: +0.2pc DAX: +1.83pc CAC 40: +1.09pc IBEX: +1.72pc Farage: Dow Jones breaking 20,000 is 'a huge vote of confidence' in Trump igel Farage has taken to Twitter to voice his thoughts on the Dow breaking 20k. He reckons it is a "huge vote of confidence" in the new US President. The Dow Jones trading above 20,000 is a 'huge' vote of confidence in @POTUS . Ongoing secular bull market in US stocks should continue for some time 'irrespective of political administration' says the Dow trading above 20,000 is a sign of "an exceptionally strong US economy." "There is no question that we are witnessing a surge in business, consumer and investor confidence, in keeping with the more business-friendly policies of the Trump administration. The market’s performance today is more than a “Trump Bump”; it is yet another indication that we are in an ongoing secular bull market in US stocks, with low near-term recession risk and that this should continue for some time, irrespective of political administration.” #WayBackWednesday: When Dow hit 10,000 on March 16, 19999 he FT reflects on its coverage of when the Dow hit the 10,000 mark on March 16, 1999. Here's how the FT covered the Dow hitting 10,000 on March 16, 1999 https://t.co/laVUcW5L2I  pic.twitter.com/nMz4tCo2NK Dow crosses 20k border before wall is built fter flirting with 20,000 for some time, the Dow Jones has finally crossed the psychological barrier. said: "For all the supposed uncertainty surrounding the new President, it only took two full days in office for the Dow to breach 20,000. It comes a day after the S&P 500 hit a new record high." He flags a number of psychological factors at work when the stock market crosses these big barriers that he will be watching: Widespread reporting of Dow 20k will create a FOMO (fear of missing out) effect on the under-invested, generating more buying interest. The 20,000 level will attract profit-taking from some long-time stock market bulls, causing a counteracting selling force. He added: "We remain confident in the durability of the US stock market rally. If Donald Trump will build a wall, there’s every reason to believe he will cut taxes, increase spending and cut regulation- all good things for US companies." Hats off: Dow 20,000 raders on the NYSE trading floor have binned their old 'Almost 20,000' hats. They've rolled out some new ones -'Dow 20,000' - as they celebrate the index smashing yet another milestone. Just a reminder.... Dow breaking 20,000 'probably doesn't matter much' weighs in on the Dow touching new heights of 20,000: "While it is important to acknowledge the breaking of a significant milestone, in the broader scheme of things it probably doesn’t matter that much, apart from giving investors a feel good boost. "Of more importance is whether or not it is able to sustain these gains at a time when US stocks are already considered expensive." Here we go, here we go, here we go. Dow 20k - Now can we talk about something else? Why has the Dow Jones hit the 20,000 mark and does it really matter? ur industry editor examines why the Dow Jones has smashed the 20,000 mark. The Dow Jones Industrial average has hit the psychologically important 20,000 mark , having repeatedly tested this level in the run-up to Christmas and consistently hit record highs . It's a price-weighted index of 30 of the largest and/or most important publicly traded companies in the US. Invented by Charles Dow in 1896, it acts as a proxy for the wider health of the US economy . n many ways, nothing - it's just a number that relates to performance. However, to humans trading shares, rather than computer algorithms, it represents a significant marker. It's a "resistance level" that can be difficult to break through for human dealers who often trade on fears. Myriad factors. But perhaps the most important one is President Donald Trump . There was a degree of nervousness ahead of the US election but once the bombshell result had been digested, investors decided that Trump would be good for business, and particularly some of the companies that are Dow members. For those who missed it.... elive the moment the Dow Jones broke the 20,000 mark for the first time ever. WATCH: The moment that the Dow hit 20,000 for the first time ever pic.twitter.com/0fvzncrKtP Goldman Sachs the biggest winner of Trump rally oldman Sachs has emerged as the biggest winner from the Trump rally, up by more than 33pc since he won the US Presidential election back in November. Guess who's the biggest winner in Trump election rally: Goldman! pic.twitter.com/iUenxLEo0P Dow contributors since the election pic.twitter.com/vbCXxxD0pN Trump reacts as Dow breaks 20k: 'Great' "Great" - that was the response from US President Donald Trump after the Dow Jones smashed the 20,000 for the first time ever. Great! #Dow20K  https://t.co/wXFhXBLgag ince Trump won the US election, the Dow Jones has rallied by more than 10pc on the back of his plans to launch a $1 trillion infrastructure package.  The rally was reignited by Trump's signing of numerous executive orders since his inauguration on Friday. Meanwhile, it's also been flagged that when Obama took office in 2009, the Dow Jones sat at 7,949.... The Dow Jones Industrial Average was 7949 when President Obama took office and 19,827 when he left, a gain of 149%. #dow20k  pic.twitter.com/twrw1tRkjO Will the Trump rally last? he Dow Jones Industrial Average breached 20,000 for the first time ever this afternoon resuming a rally that began in the wake of US President Donald Trump's surprise election victory. The rally was reignited by Trump's signing of numerous executive orders since his inauguration on Friday. The Dow officially hits 20,000 for the first time ever #dow20k  pic.twitter.com/odkWMqAMiE owever, the all important question investors want to know is if the 'Trump trade' rally will last? examines the possibilities: "Economists are usually unwise to make predictions, so it’s worth considering both potential outcomes. "One argument says that Trump will usher in a Reaganesque shift in the US economy, fuelling a massive reallocation of investment from cash to productive capital. Between the election and the inauguration it was all about the psychology of animal spirits – there was not a huge amount of new information as such – it’s just that people are prepared to pay more for stocks. It’s hard to stop that kind of momentum once it takes a grip. "Trump’s first steps as president have confirmed much of what investors had hoped for and that he’s extremely pro-business and light on regulation for energy and financials. That’s what’s driving this renewed rally. The other argument claims that this is a massive bubble, irrational exuberance of the worst kind that will come unstuck when Trump fails to deliver the reflationary policies that the market is pinning its hopes on. How has the Dow changed over the past 120yrs? https://t.co/ATCPhnuUvE  pic.twitter.com/DlfdngTEfX "It’s been 20 years or so since Alan Greenspan made his famous ‘irrational exuberance’ speech and today’s stock market is displaying many of the signs of running ahead of itself. Bears will say that after a multi-year bull market for equities, this could just be the final crazy push higher before it all unravels. However, bull markets normally only turn into bear markets on an expected downturn in the real economy. There is little evidence that the US is heading for recession – quite the reverse as Trump is ushering a new era of pro-business policies that affirm growth prospects. "We are seeing a massive shift in investor sentiment that has seen money pour out of bonds and into equities around the world. This is a major recalibration in global stocks and bond markets – ie, not a bubble in the pure sense, although it might be rising faster than is natural. "A bubble, as Greenspan noted, is very hard to stop once it starts. And while his words cooled the market briefly, it quickly turned positive again and continued to rise and rise in the years after. Investors have to judge whether the real returns from equities are worth the prices asked. At the current velocity there is a chance that this calculation could change and we could see a correction, but if this is a real rotation from bonds into stocks, ending a 30-year bond bull market, there is still a huge amount of cash piled up that could yet pour into equities and power further gains through 2017. It might not be too long before 21,000 is in sight.” Dow 20k level confirms 'great rotation from bonds to stocks is upon us' says the Dow breaking the 20,000 level is "psychologically huge". After a bit of pullback ahead of the inauguration, he thinks it really confirms that the "great rotation from bonds to stocks is definitely upon us". "Fears about protectionism are running second to optimism about inflation and growth – for now at least." Markets enjoyed a strong rally after Trump's election win and today markets have reignited the 'Trump-infrastructure rally' on optimism over his spending plans. #Dow crossed 20k right out of the gate this morning. Took 42 trading sessions to go from 19k to 20k! https://t.co/qtLm57ys3s Analysts react as Dow hits landmark 20,000 level he Dow Jones has jumped 0.5pc in the first five minutes of trading, bringing it across the landmark 20k level to 20,015.59. Analysts couldn't contain their excitement when it breached 20k: #Dow Jones > 20,000 Only took a month of teasing to get there #DJIA  #Dow20k RO #dow20k at last! So the #Trump rally might not have run out of steam after all ... #markets  #fx Dow's about that Ladies and Gents. 20K. Finally. Is that America great again now? #dow20k Dow Jones breaks 20,000 level for first time ever he Dow Jones has traded above 20,000 for the first time on Wednesday, resuming a rally that began in the wake of U.S. President Donald Trump's election victory. The rally was reignited by Trump's signing of numerous executive orders since his inauguration on Friday. Historic moment on Wall Street. Dow is about to 20k for first time. https://t.co/TfVVRTqIwQ he index came within a point of the historic level on Jan. 6, as investors banked on pro-growth policies and tax cuts from the new administration. DAX surges to highest level since May 2015 ust before our focus shifts to the opening bell on Wall Street (in ten minutes time), it's worth noting Germany's DAX has surged to its highest level since May 2015. It's now up 1.8pc. The countdown is on... ust 15 minutes until Wall Street opens. t's likely the Dow Jones will breach the 20,000 milestone at the opening bell. Just over half an hour to go till the official open but the Dow set to start around +100 and through the 20,000 level. pic.twitter.com/9XHeNLrkKc Dow likely to breach 20,000 level in less than 30 minutes at market open as futures rise 100+ points https://t.co/lv4tJMdjue Futures indicate Dow Jones will open above landmark 20,000 level Wall Street futures show the Dow will open above 20,000 today. Bounce in pound is two sided explains the reasons behind the "solid move higher" for the pound which has seen it strengthen against the dollar to a six week high. "The move itself is two sided in that the clarity provided on Brexit by Theresa May last week is in juxtaposition to the verbal intervention from the Trump administration to actively weaken the USD. This combination, in addition to key technical levels breached in GBPUSD this morning, is providing a perfect springboard for GBP today. GBP/USD RISES ABOVE 1.2600, FIRST TIME SINCE DEC. 14 "Whether this will be maintained is another question but following yesterday's Supreme Court ruling we feel no need to change our expectation that Article 50 will still be triggered by the end of March." UK manufacturing 'firing on all cylinders' amid record jump in competitiveness ere's our full report on the latest Industrial Trends survey from the CBI by British manufacturers are "firing on all cylinders", as the weaker pound drove the biggest increase in UK competitiveness in non-EU markets on record, according to the Confederation of British Industry. Domestic order volumes rose at the fastest pace since July 2014 in the three months to January, as the business group said companies started to hire again following a reduction in headcount in the previous quarter. The CBI's monthly manufacturing survey showed the fall in the value of the pound helped Britain to record its biggest increase in competitiveness in markets outside the EU since records began in 2000. Manufacturing output growth stayed solid in the quarter to January. #CBI_ITS  #UKmfg  https://t.co/OFPQJyY2TW  pic.twitter.com/O8YrfYstlI he boost to competitiveness and robust expectations of domestic orders also helped to push up optimism about new order volumes over the next three months to its highest since April 2015, the survey showed. Rain Newton-Smith, chief economist at the CBI, said factory bosses remained bullish about the outlook. "UK manufacturers are firing on all cylinders right now with domestic orders up and optimism rising at the fastest pace in two years," she said. Ruth Gregory, an economist at Capital Economics, said output expectations over the coming quarter were consistent with quarterly growth in manufacturing output of "around 1pc". Pound breaks $1.26 for first time in six weeks he broad dollar selling has propelled the pound to its highest level in six weeks. Traders also pointed to Prime Minister Theresa May 's promise to provide a White paper on her Brexit plan. said: "In her speech in the parliament, she took as much as leverage as she could on the possibility of signing exceptional deals with the US on the basis of special relations with the country. Trump has said that he would put the UK in the front of the queue when it comes to making deals and Theresa May is the first foreign leader to meet him." Sterling smashed the $1.26 barrier for the first time since December 14. US stocks to open higher; Dow Jones could hit landmark 20,000 level S stocks are poised to join the global rally later today. S&P 500 futures hit a record intraday high pointing to a revival of the post-election rally, prompted by President Trump's push for pro-growth policies. It also looks like the Dow Jones could hit the 20,000 mark later today. Here's the opening calls courtesy of IG: Dow Jones 20,000 looks set to be hit today.. US Opening Calls: #DOW 19995 +0.41% #SPX 2288 +0.36% #NASDAQ 5127 +0.51% #IGOpeningCall raders are already getting excited about the possibility of the Dow hitting 20,000: I presume we get a tickertape parade? Will be disappointed if not. https://t.co/qory0Il0i3 The Dow's long flirt with 20K https://t.co/G58Cdsy92X via @bkollmeyer  pic.twitter.com/lNXbS5KO1N Dow 20K klaxon at the ready Microsoft: Brexit won't make us pull business in UK icrosoft has denied that Brexit could make it rethink its investment in the UK after an employee said it may choose to expand elsewhere in Europe. “As we have said both before and after the EU referendum vote, Microsoft’s commitment to the UK is unchanged. In particular, those customers in our UK data centres should continue to rely on Microsoft’s significant investment plans there,” it said . wen Larter, Microsoft UK’s government affairs manager, had said that high import tariffs could see the company build its data centres elsewhere in Europe. The American technology giant is currently building two new facilities in Britain for its cloud computing services, whose customers include the Ministry of Defence . It expects demand to double by 2019, and Larter said it was important to ensure that personal data can be transferred between the UK and EU after Brexit. Half-time update: European bourses climb on strong trading updates and Trump rally uropean bourses made gains today thanks to strong trading updates and the return of the 'Trump rally' - hopes the US President will boost infrastructure spending. Just after midday, here's a snap shot of the state of play in Europe: FTSE 100: +0.28pc DAX: +1.3pc CAC 40: +0.98pc IBEX: +1.61pc said: "Looking ahead to this afternoon and the re-emergence of the Trump rally, thanks to the President re-igniting his promise to build a wall on the US-Mexico border lifting the infrastructure-related stocks, has the Dow Jones eyeing 20000 once again. "The futures are promising a 60 point rise after the bell, one that would see the Dow at a 2 and a half week high AND leave it just 30ish points away from the landmark level that had eluded it for so long." Retirement house builder McCarthy & Stone brushes off Brexit dip The company said in a trading update covering the 20 weeks to January 20 that it sold £206m of homes in the year to date, 5pc higher than the year previously by value, in part thanks to higher prices. In November, the company’s order book was lagging more than 12pc behind where it had been a year previously , thanks to nervousness in the market in the weeks around the referendum. s at January 20, McCarthy & Stone's order book is now just 2pc down on the previous year, indicating that the firm has seen a pick-up in the last few weeks as people return to the market. The small dip at this stage was put down to the market still being slightly subdued and a small number of homes being ready for sale. Chief executive Clive Fenton said he was particularly pleased with the number of new homes for which the firm now had planning permission, which was 1,042, and said he was confident in its ability to sell them. “We’re continuing to see normal trading conditions,” he said. “There is still strong demand for our homes compared to supply.” Can Dow scale the 20K wall Trump built? he S&P 500 and the Nasdsaq set new record highs yesterday and today, global stocks have rallied to a 19-month high as markets reignite the 'Trump-infrastructure rally'. said: “Equities are handsomely positive this morning, with the DAX outperforming thanks to a breakout to its best since July 2015 while Wall St looks like it has potential to try for the magic 20,000 record high that has eluded it for so long." Technical Analysis Chart of the Day: #DowJones  $YM RSI breakout says 20k could be about to break pic.twitter.com/5A586Wg4wl he Dow Jones looks set to join its European counterparts when Wall Street opens at 2.30pm as it looks to head for another attempt at smashing the 20,000 barrier. Bernstein: Who would profit from 'The Trump
Wall'? ast night, Donald Trump tweeted: Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow. Among many other things, we will build the wall! o with pledge to build a wall on the Mexican border, who would profit from it? Firstly, it's worth noting that Trump's estimates that the wall can be built for around $10bn. But Bernstein flags that this figure has been widely disputed, when you add labour and land acquisition costs it could be as much as $25bn. Significant quantities of building materials will be required. Bernstein says concrete is by far the best material to meet Trump's goal of building an imposing and effective barrier, while also offering the most cost-effective solution. Strategists at Bernstein said: "Estimates for how long construction of The Trump Wall would take vary widely, from 1 to 10 years. We have assumed that planning and land acquisition would take 1-2 years with a further 2 years for construction itself. This means that the impact on demand for materials would occur from 2018 at the earliest." Bernstein's analysis suggests that, at 40ft high, The Trump Wall would add over 1 percentage point to cement demand in both 2018 and 2019, a significant increase in market growing at 4-5pc p.a ernstein highlights that is not economically feasible to transport heavy building materials over large distances (>200 miles). As such, it is the companies with production facilities closest to the border that stand to gain the most as suppliers to The Trump Wall project. Bernstein said: "We mapped the cement, concrete and aggregates facilities within a 200 mile corridor of the border, on both the US and Mexican sides. If Mexico does have to pay for The Wall, we believe they would be unlikely to use US-based suppliers (if possible), and vice versa." On the US side, Bernstein found that and have a strong local presence in cement, ready-mix (RMX) and aggregates, while and have significant aggregate operations in the area. In Mexico, and are "well positioned in cement, aggregates and ready-mix", the broker added. "However, we note that both have facilities close to the border." CBI: UK factory order books strongest since 2015 tepping away from the 'Trump rally' briefly, British manufacturers have reported the strongest inflow of orders in nearly two years but are also seeing their costs rise sharply following last year's Brexit vote which pushed down the value of sterling, a survey showed this morning. The Confederation of British Industry's monthly industrial orders balance rose to +5 in January from zero in December, its highest level since April 2015. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a smaller rise to +2. Pick-up in manufacturing output is eroding spare capacity. #CBI_ITS  #UKmfg  https://t.co/OFPQJyY2TW  pic.twitter.com/Tpu7bgx5zu ritain's economy has so far withstood the shock of June's vote to leave the European Union. The Bank of England is expected to raise its predictions for growth this year when it meets next week in what would be a second quarterly upgrade, a Reuters poll of economists showed earlier this week. "UK manufacturers are firing on all cylinders right now with domestic orders up and optimism rising at the fastest pace in two years," Rain Newton-Smith, the CBI's chief economist, said.  Mexican peso weaker ahead of Trump border wall order rump's Mexican border wall order points towards a potential trade war and perhaps a stronger US dollar, Kathy Lien, BK Asset Management, told CNBC this morning. The Mexican peso has weakened following the US President's Tweet. It's currently off by 0.42pc against the US dollar.  highlights that "Mexico is as to the United States as a remora is to a nurse shark; they benefit each other but the remora is never going to grow larger than the shark. As we have said countless times, Trump is picking on the weaker kids (Mexico) at the moment and leaving the ones (China) who can give him a bloody nose well alone." Cook expects the Mexican peso will remain under pressure through 2017 as trade issues become "more antagonistic". Restaurant Group to throw out Frankie and Benny's menu as sales plunge hares in struggling Frankie & Benny's owner Restaurant Group have tumbled to the bottom of the FTSE 250, down 10.5pc to 309.67p, after sales plunged in the 53 weeks to January 1. Shares at the ailing Restaurant Group plunged more than 10pc in early trading after the FTSE 250 company revealed a further slump in like-for-like sales. The troubled casual dining giant will now throw out the menu at its Frankie & Benny’s chain as it embarks on a transformation of the business, saying that “substantial price and proposition changes are required”. he group, which also owns the Chiquito and Coast To Coast chains, said fourth-quarter like-for-like sales were down 5.9pc, while sales for the 53 weeks to January 1, 2017 were down 3.9pc compared to the previous year. Restaurant Group said underperformance “across our leisure brands” had driven the disappointing results, and it warned that it expects trading to “remain difficult” in the first half of the new year as it faces pressures from the revaluation of business rates and increases in the national living and minimum wages. Time to abandon ship? Baltic Dry Index sinks to lowest level in more than two months he Baltic Dry Index, which is seen by many as a leading indicator of the state of the world economy, has slumped to its lowest level in more than two months. The index measures shipping costs for commodities including iron ore, copper and steel. It is comprised of three-sub indexes that measure different sizes of merchant ships, is based on a daily survey of agents all over the world. It hit a peak level of 11,793 in May 2008 but hit an all-time nadir in February last year. In November it surged to a two-year high after Donald Trump won the US presidential election. It rallied on Trump's plans to launch a $1 trillion infrastructure package. Such spending would be a boon for owners of vessels ferrying iron ore and other commodities around the world. owever, since hitting a two-year high of 1,257 on November 18, in the wake of Trump's triumph in the US election, it has plunged by almost 30pc. The Baltic Dry Index is currently down 29.5pc at 886 since November, which appears at odds with the rally in global equities boosted by optimism on Trump's infrastructure plans. Last night, he tweeted: Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow. Among many other things, we will build the wall! said the slump of late in the Baltic Dry index is "a signal that fears of protectionist policies are very high". "It’s a mixed picture for miners and uncertain for sure." Pound hits highest level since December 15 he pound has rallied to a six-week high as traders in the City cite broad dollar selling. Sterling spiked to $1.2599, a jump of 0.57pc, marking its highest level since December 15 when it touched $1.2744 against the dollar. gainst the euro, sterling hit a more than two-week high at 85.41p per euro. Moves by Donald Trump on oil pipeline projects yesterday has boosted global equity markets and pulled the greenback back. Faith in the new president's growth agenda has been countered by hints of concern from the new administration over the strength of the dollar and market worries about Trump’s protectionist leanings. Head of Trading Piers Curran covers the reason for yesterday's stock market rally in his morning briefing: Five on Brexit Island lends WH Smith a helping hand hares in WH Smith jumped 7pc this morning putting it on track for tis best day since early 2009 after it forecast full-year profit growth to be slightly ahead of expectations. The success of spoof Famous Five books helped drive sales forward at WH Smith as the retailer said it expected profit growth for the year to be "ahead of plan". Books such as the Enid Blyton parody ‘Five on Brexit Island’ and ‘the Ladybird Book of the Hipster’ were key drivers for the FTSE 250 company, which reported a 2pc growth in sales for the 21 weeks to January 21. Like-for-like sales, which compare stores open for more than a year, rose 1pc. he profit upgrade was welcomed by investors, who sent shares soaring 7.5pc to £15.90 in early trade. Once again the chain saw a divergence between its travel arm, which operates stores in airports and train stations, and its high-street shops. The retailer enjoyed a 5pc like-for-like sales growth in its travel stores, but equivalent sales in its high street stores were down 3pc for the same period. Stephen Clarke, the group’s chief executive, said sales were “in line with expectations”. “The group has delivered a strong performance over the 21-week period,” he said. German Ifo business morale weakens in January erman business morale fell unexpectedly in January, hitting its lowest level since September, a survey showed on Wednesday, in a sign that company executives were less upbeat about the growth prospects of Europe's largest economy at the start of 2017. The Munich-based Ifo economic institute said its business climate index, based on a monthly survey of some 7,000 firms, fell to 109.8 from 111.0 in December. The January reading compared with a Reuters consensus forecast for a value of 111.3. Ooops! German business sentiment unexpectedly slipped in January. pic.twitter.com/Mul4DXTv2v "The German economy made a less confident start to the year," Ifo chief Clemens Fuest said in a statement. e added that companies expressed greater satisfaction with their current business situation, but were less optimistic about their six-month business outlook.  Global stocks hit 19-month high as markets reignite Trump-infrastructure rally lobal stocks have hit a 19-month today as markets moved to reignite the Trump-infrastructure rally. Hopes US President Donald Trump will press ahead with a large fiscal spending package lifted the MSCI's global share index to 433.59 points, up 0.2pc at its highest level since June 2015. t comes a day after the S&P 500 and Nasdaq set record highs on Wall Street buoyed by hopes Trump will boost infrastructure spending plans. Trump's infrastructure plan boosts optimism arkets had been waiting for Donald Trump's infrastructure spending proposal. Yesterday, the US president signed an executive order in extending the North Dakota pipeline. "This will create thousands of more job and it will collect more tax revenue for the government. "After signing executive orders to review the high priority infrastructure projects for their environmental impact, the fear is that Mr Trump may just pull out of Paris climate agreement as well." CRH breakout thanks to Trump infrastructure spending plans (pipeline, wall, etc etc ) pic.twitter.com/gpy1Re4kwO Tweet from the President suggested he will also sign some executive orders on national security today - including building a wall on the Mexican border. Aslam added: "In the light of this, we are expecting more volatility in the forex market and the Mexican peso tanked against the dollar. Later today, we could some more pressure when the actual event will take place." Trump rally back on, but will it last? examines whether the reignited Trump rally will last: "One sign that the Trump rally is back is the strong performance of the materials sector in the Dow Jones industrial Average and the S&P 500. The Dow’s materials sector rallied more than 4pc on Monday, while materials in the S&P 500 rose by more than 2.5pc, closely followed by the financial sector, which was up more than 1pc. This is significant, as both materials and financial stocks have been sensitive to market expectations around the Trump administration’s ability to deliver growth. Based on Tuesday’s performance, it looks like the market is happy with the first flourish of Trump’s executive orders. rooks points to analysis by Bloomberg, which finds that typically  the stock market rallies at the start of a Republican Presidency, but six months in the markets start to reverse course. "We may see another few months’ of gains for the US stock markets before the inevitable sell-off happens." Trump also advanced the Keystone Pipeline project yesterday, something that President Obama "slapped down". Brooks added: "These first steps may not please climate change activists, but, as expected, they suggest that President Trump is ‘business friendly’ and the markets are greeting this with approval. Thus, stocks are in a strong position as we move to the middle of the week." Shares in CRH hit highest level since aftermath of Trump election win hares in Irish firm CRH,  the biggest producer of asphalt for highway construction in the US, have rallied this morning to their highest level since the immediate aftermath of Trump's US presidential election win. The FTSE 10 stock jumped by as much as 2.77pc to £29.35 - its highest level since November 10 when it broke the £30 mark. The latest rally comes on optimism over Trump's infrastructure spending plans. The US President is expected to order the construction of the Mexican border wall today. rump's promise of boosting spending during his campaign sparked an 'infrastructure rally' in the second half of last year. CRH stands out as the main beneficiary of revived infrastructure spending in the US, as the country accounts for nearly half of its earnings. It was also widely reported that the Irish construction company is among the favourites to build the security wall on the Mexican border. It's worth noting CRH has previous form.  It has already been involved in building Israel’s “West Bank wall”, supplying cement and concrete for the de facto border along Palestinian land. Shares in Ashtead have also jumped 3.1pc. Donald Trump to order construction of Mexican wall and a temporary ban on refugees from seven Muslim countries resident Donald Trump is expected to order the construction of the Mexican border wall on Wednesday and sign executive orders that include a temporary ban on most refugees. Mr Trump will visit the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday where it is thought he will order federal funds to be allocated towards the building of a wall, one of his signature campaign promises, along America's southern border with Mexico. Mr Trump tweeted on Tuesday night: Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow. Among many other things, we will build the wall! r Trump's insistence that Mexico would pay for the wall was among his most popular proposals on the campaign trail, sparking enthusiastic cheers at his raucous rallies. Mexico has repeatedly said it will not pay for any border wall. Earlier this month, Trump said the building project would initially be paid for with a congressionally approved spending bill and Mexico will eventually reimburse the U.S., though he has not specified how he would guarantee payments. Mr Trump will meet with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto at the White House next week. European bourses jump on upbeat earnings and optimism over Trump's infrastructure spending plans mixture of upbeat earnings and optimism over Trump's infrastructure spending plans lifted European bourses this morning. Here's a snapshot of the current state of play:  said: "Calls for a positive open comes after a positive day for Wall St (S&P fresh record high) a baton which has been passed to Asian bourses overnight. One element of help comes from the USD rallying back to the highs of yesterday, delivering mildly helpful weakness in GBP, EUR and Yen. "However, it is strength in base metals that is really driving sentiment, Copper in particular up on restricted supply (BHP Billiton cut guidance; prolonged strikes could make matters worse) and growth/inflation expectations from US infrastructure spending plans as Trump sticks to his campaign hymn sheet. Note Aluminium, Iron Ore, Lead and Zinc all tagging along while Oil holds around $53/55, near the mid-point of a $50-60 range as US production increases challenge OPEC cuts." Agenda: Trump infrastructure rally returns ood morning and welcome to our live markets coverage. Last night, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq set record highs. The advance comes as quarterly earnings season heats up and investors become optimistic that clarity on President Donald Trump's economic policies will be forthcoming. Trump signed two executive orders yesterday to move forward with construction of the controversial Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines, rolling back key Obama administration environmental actions in favor of expanding energy infrastructure. He also met with chief executives of the Big Three US automakers to push for more cars to be built in the United States Asia bond yields are rising, follows rise in US & Europe as Jan manu PMIs came in strong & hopes for infrastructure spending increased. pic.twitter.com/VksWkOr3O3 lso on the agenda: Staffline Group Fresnillo, Antofagasta, Restaurant Group, WH Smith, Clinigen, Hostelworld, McCarthy & Stone Polo Resources, Patisserie Holdings Nationwide HPI m/m (UK), CBI realised sales (UK), HPI m/m (US) FTSE +24 opening call - RTN -2/3% (cautious outlook, need time for new initiatives to bed in), WH Smith +2% (trading ahead), MCS +2%

"It’s been 20 years or so since Alan Greenspan made his famous ‘irrational exuberance’ speech and today’s stock market is displaying many of the signs of running ahead of itself. Bears will say that after a multi-year bull market for equities, this could just be the final crazy push higher before it all unravels. However, bull markets normally only turn into bear markets on an expected downturn in the real economy. There is little evidence that the US is heading for recession – quite the reverse as Trump is ushering a new era of pro-business policies that affirm growth prospects.

"We are seeing a massive shift in investor sentiment that has seen money pour out of bonds and into equities around the world. This is a major recalibration in global stocks and bond markets – ie, not a bubble in the pure sense, although it might be rising faster than is natural.

"A bubble, as Greenspan noted, is very hard to stop once it starts. And while his words cooled the market briefly, it quickly turned positive again and continued to rise and rise in the years after. Investors have to judge whether the real returns from equities are worth the prices asked. At the current velocity there is a chance that this calculation could change and we could see a correction, but if this is a real rotation from bonds into stocks, ending a 30-year bond bull market, there is still a huge amount of cash piled up that could yet pour into equities and power further gains through 2017. It might not be too long before 21,000 is in sight.”