Car Stolen in Chicago With 10-Year-Old Boy Sitting Inside
Car Stolen in Chicago With 10-Year-Old Boy Sitting Inside
Shares               A 10-year-old Chicago boy is home safely after going on a joy ride of sorts that he'll never forget. The drama unfolded Sunday morning when Richard Rodriguez's family car was stolen -- while he was seated inside the vehicle outside his house, while waiting for his mother and baby sister. Rodriguez said he was sitting in the car outside of his home in the Hermosa neighborhood of Chicago when a teenage girl jumped inside and drove off, ABC News affiliate WLS reported. Rodriguez said the teem hit two cars before stopping in an alley to pick up an accomplice. "The girl just came running and just got into my car and I was really, like, shocked because I was like my mom doesn't drive that fast," Rodriguez told WLS on Tuesday. "They hit a car and then when they saw the other cars had stopped the girl turned around and hit another car, and when she was driving in the alley she hit a big post." He said the accomplice, another teenager, got into the vehicle and told him to get out, leaving him alone and stranded in an alley. Thankfully, a good Samaritan found him and notified his parents. "He called my mom and after that, that's how my parents found me," Rodriguez told WLS.    "They said have a nice school day": Car stolen in Hermosa, with 10-year-old boy inside: https://t.co/g0ZC21XRsC  pic.twitter.com/q2B05ARhFb  His parents, Jaqueline and Elias Rodriguez, said they were relieved when they got the phone call, but now they're worried about the safety of their neighborhood. The family had just moved into the area this past weekend. "I think this is not secure," Jacqueline Rodriguez told WLS. Chicago police are investigating the matter and working to recover the vehicle, but the parents said they are not too concerned about the car's whereabouts. "Right now my kid is important, he saved my kid. Not important, my car," Elias Rodriguez said. Shares                  Car Stolen in Chicago With 10-Year-Old Boy Sitting Inside   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban But Regrets Quick Rollout   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Romania President: We Are in a Crisis   State, Federal Lawyers in Court to Argue Trump Travel Ban   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   UN: Israeli Settlement Law Crosses 'Thick Red Line'   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Trump's Church Politics Idea Has Wide Reach, Beyond GOP Base   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Queens Jogger Murder Suspect Allegedly Said He 'Lost It'   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   3 Former 'Bachelors' Advise Nick Viall After Triple Elimination   Suicide Bomber Strikes Afghan Supreme Court, Killing 19   Texas Rangers to Help Search for Tom Brady's Stolen Super Bowl Jersey, Lt. Gov. Says   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   At $250M, Los Angeles Home Most Expensive Listed in US

A 10-year-old Chicago boy is home safely after going on a joy ride of sorts that he'll never forget.

The drama unfolded Sunday morning when Richard Rodriguez's family car was stolen -- while he was seated inside the vehicle outside his house, while waiting for his mother and baby sister.

Rodriguez said he was sitting in the car outside of his home in the Hermosa neighborhood of Chicago when a teenage girl jumped inside and drove off, ABC News affiliate WLS reported.

Rodriguez said the teem hit two cars before stopping in an alley to pick up an accomplice.

"The girl just came running and just got into my car and I was really, like, shocked because I was like my mom doesn't drive that fast," Rodriguez told WLS on Tuesday. "They hit a car and then when they saw the other cars had stopped the girl turned around and hit another car, and when she was driving in the alley she hit a big post."

He said the accomplice, another teenager, got into the vehicle and told him to get out, leaving him alone and stranded in an alley. Thankfully, a good Samaritan found him and notified his parents.

"He called my mom and after that, that's how my parents found me," Rodriguez told WLS.

"They said have a nice school day": Car stolen in Hermosa, with 10-year-old boy inside: https://t.co/g0ZC21XRsC pic.twitter.com/q2B05ARhFb — ABC 7 Chicago (@ABC7Chicago) January 24, 2017

His parents, Jaqueline and Elias Rodriguez, said they were relieved when they got the phone call, but now they're worried about the safety of their neighborhood. The family had just moved into the area this past weekend.

"I think this is not secure," Jacqueline Rodriguez told WLS.

Chicago police are investigating the matter and working to recover the vehicle, but the parents said they are not too concerned about the car's whereabouts.

"Right now my kid is important, he saved my kid. Not important, my car," Elias Rodriguez said.