Lyft is about to launch a massive expansion across the US
Lyft is about to launch a massive expansion across the US


Lyft is rapidly expanding the number of US cities in which it operates.

The ride-hailing company plans to launch in 100 new US cities by the end of the year, bringing the total number of cities it serves to 300, Jaime Raczka, the head of early-stage markets and expansion at Lyft, told Business Insider.

Lyft plans to roll out service in 40 new cities on Thursday alone, the same number it launched in all of 2016.

"We dramatically increased our launch pace in the second half of 2016 and are obviously going to continue and accelerate that in 2017," Raczka said.

Today the San Francisco-based company offers its service in 200 US cities and reaches about 177 million people, or 55% of the country, the company said.

After the expansion, Lyft will operate in 300 cities while providing access to 231 million people, or about 72% of the US, the company said.

Lyft's largest rival, Uber, operates in 450 cities worldwide. Lyft's aggressive US growth, however, suggests the company is planning to launch its service outside the US soon.

Lyft is already partnered with Didi Chuxing and Grab to provide rides in other countries. But CNBC reported earlier this month that the company planned to expand its own service in other countries sometime this year.

Raczka would not comment on when Lyft plans to expand outside the US, but she emphasized that 2017 would be a big year for Lyft's market growth.

"The aim of how we think about the international expansion is independent from our efforts here in the US," Raczka said. "So right now we are really focused on getting a broad footprint in the US.

"We have a lot of great growth leverage, and we are going to ride that momentum and bring our service to communities across Americas and make sure we are serving people here."

Check out the list of cities where Lyft will launch on Thursday below. The company will announce the remaining 60 cities later this year.