Netherlands Government launches global abortion fund to counter Trump cuts



Netherlands Government launches global abortion fund to counter Trump cuts

Posted

The Netherlands is launching a global fund to help women access abortion services to compensate for United States President Donald Trump's ban on federal funding for foreign groups providing abortions or abortion support for family planning abroad.

Key points: The Netherlands Government announces the fund to compensate for US ban on abortion funding

Foreign ministry says "focus on women" will not affect relations with US

WHO figures show high proportion of unsafe abortions in developing countries

The Dutch Government has held preliminary discussions on the initiative with other European Union members who have responded positively, a foreign ministry spokesman said.

Governments outside the EU, companies and social institutions will also be approached to participate.

Mr Trump on Monday reinstated a policy that requires foreign NGOs who receive US global family planning funds to certify that they do not perform abortions or provide abortion advice as a method of family planning.

Dutch officials estimate that Mr Trump's restrictions will cause a funding shortfall of $US600 million over the next four years.

Women's rights and health campaigners have reacted with anger at the move, saying restrictions on abortion endanger women's lives.

Globally, 21.6 million women have unsafe abortions each year, nine out of 10 of which take place in developing countries, according the World Health Organisation.

Mr Trump has also pledged to withdraw funding from US domestic abortion services.

The Dutch policy was announced by Liliane Ploumen, Minister for International Development Cooperation, whose Labour Party - the junior coalition partner in the Government - is traditionally staunchly favour of abortion rights.

The Netherlands's laws on reproduction and reproductive health are among the world's most liberal.

Foreign ministry spokesman Herman van Gelderen said he was confident relations with the new US administration would not be damaged by the measure.

"Where decisions are taken that are bad for women in developing countries we should help those women," he said. "It's not about the politics, it's about those women."

The policy, known as the Mexico City Policy or Global Gag Rule, also prohibits US federal assistance for foreign groups that use non-US funds for those abortion services or lobby foreign governments to legalise abortion, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, which looks at US global health policy.

Intermittently implemented by US governments since 1984, Barack Obama lifted the measure at the start of his own presidency in 2009. It does not apply to abortion or abortion advice in cases where a pregnancy is a risk to the life of the mother or has resulted from incest or rape.

Reuters

Topics: health, reproduction-and-contraception, abortion, world-politics, netherlands