Pro Bowl gives Philip Rivers closure after move to Los Angeles
Pro Bowl gives Rivers closure after move to L.A.
Pro Bowl gives Rivers closure after move to L.A. Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Steelers cut former Browns top-10 pick Gilbert Oh, baby: Parents call pre-rally newborn Brady SB draws 111.3M viewers on Fox, down slightly Plenty on to-do list for 49ers' Kyle Shanahan, John Lynch Jerry Rice on Larry Fitzgerald's decision: 'I hope he's at peace with it' Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. 1 Related Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy One night showed how close (and how far) the Cowboys are from Super Bowl Seahawks can take valuable lessons away from Super Bowl LI Chiefs can beat Super Bowl teams -- in regular season Potential QB options for the Browns in 2017 Terrell Owens shouldn't hurt Calvin Johnson's HOF chances, but first ballot is no lock Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back Bar raised high, as success of Patriots' season defined by Super Bowl Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Steelers should stop giving up draft picks for other teams' cornerbacks Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Sal Paolantonio details Philip Rivers' plans ahead of representing the San Diego Chargers for the final time at the 2017 Pro Bowl. (1:45) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Philip Rivers was added to the Pro Bowl on Tuesday and told the San Diego Union-Tribune that he will consider the game an opportunity to play one last time as a San Diego Charger. Rivers and other Chargers players in Sunday's game (ESPN, 8 p.m. ET) will be announced as Los Angeles Chargers. But Rivers told the Union-Tribune that, at least for him, he will be representing San Diego in this game. "I made this team as a San Diego Charger," the quarterback told the newspaper. "That's cool." He said that during the Chargers' season finale against Kansas City, he and his teammates thought the 37-27 loss to the Chiefs might be their last in San Diego but didn't know for sure. Since that time, the Chargers officially made the decision to relocate to Los Angeles for the 2017 season. "We walked off the field after that Kansas City game and we thought it might be the end, but we didn't know," he told the newspaper. "This will be the last game I play as a San Diego Charger." He also told the newspaper that he won't let the week of activities in Orlando keep him from attending a father-daughter dance in San Diego on Friday. He said he plans to fly back from Orlando for the dance but return to Florida to play Sunday. Rivers replaces Ben Roethlisberger on the AFC roster. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Sal Paolantonio details Philip Rivers' plans ahead of representing the San Diego Chargers for the final time at the 2017 Pro Bowl. (1:45)

Philip Rivers was added to the Pro Bowl on Tuesday and told the San Diego Union-Tribune that he will consider the game an opportunity to play one last time as a San Diego Charger.

Rivers and other Chargers players in Sunday's game (ESPN, 8 p.m. ET) will be announced as Los Angeles Chargers. But Rivers told the Union-Tribune that, at least for him, he will be representing San Diego in this game.

Editor's Picks Pro Bowl invitations still up despite new features The NFL has struggled in recent seasons to attract top players to the Pro Bowl. This year only 57 percent of the players on the original roster will be in uniform for the game in Orlando.

"I made this team as a San Diego Charger," the quarterback told the newspaper. "That's cool."

He said that during the Chargers' season finale against Kansas City, he and his teammates thought the 37-27 loss to the Chiefs might be their last in San Diego but didn't know for sure. Since that time, the Chargers officially made the decision to relocate to Los Angeles for the 2017 season.

"We walked off the field after that Kansas City game and we thought it might be the end, but we didn't know," he told the newspaper. "This will be the last game I play as a San Diego Charger."

He also told the newspaper that he won't let the week of activities in Orlando keep him from attending a father-daughter dance in San Diego on Friday. He said he plans to fly back from Orlando for the dance but return to Florida to play Sunday.

Rivers replaces Ben Roethlisberger on the AFC roster.