Homeless Delhi Girl Who Was The Poster Child For An NGO Run Over By School Bus
Homeless Delhi Girl Who Was The Poster Child For An NGO Run Over By School Bus
Homeless Delhi Girl Who Was The Poster Child For An NGO Run Over By School Bus She was the poster child for a human rights organisation. But she lived in a shack fabricated out of discarded plywood under the Nehru Place flyover, her parents too poor to afford any better. For toys, she had empty plastic water bottles that her rag-picker father brought home to sell to scrap dealers. As her playing ground, she had the traffic intersection. On Monday, a day before the National Girl Child Day, Lakshmi was crushed under the wheels of a school bus, underlining all the risks of a childhood on the streets. The three-year-old had been playing with her plastic bottle when it rolled towards the road. Unmindful of the traffic, she ran after the toy and into the path of the approaching bus. Her family had left their home in Rajasthan's Ajmer district with the dream of better future in the capital. Instead, the family lost both its children on the streets, Lakshmi's elder brother, Teju, having succumbed to pneumonia below this very flyover some years ago. On Tuesday , soon after some of Lakshmi's friends, another 40 kids like her call the flyover a home -returned following the last rites at Bhairon Mandir near Pragati Maidan, they went back to selling seasonal wares on the busy road, this week the national flag in preparation for Republic Day. With no homes, no incomes, no schooling and little official inclination to change their lives, the children, like Lakshmi, flirt with mortal danger every minute of their lives. All that remains of Lakshmi is a poster that shows the little girl, dishevelled hair, innocent eyed, sipping milk from a plastic cup. "Lakshmi was a beautiful child. See even the NGO people selected her glowing face for their poster," said a sobbing Gyarsi, her grandmother. The poster was brought out by Centre for Holistic Development for its programme to distribute milk to impoverished children. Born in Kalyanpura in Rajasthan's Ajmer at her maternal grandparent's home, Lakshmi had arrived in Delhi as an eight-month-old baby . Her parents, Mukesh and Sharda, had come to Delhi three years earlier. Mukesh worked irregularly as a labourer and spent most days salvaging recyclable stuff from garbage, making a measly Rs 6,000 a month. Sharda, weak and tubercular, sold balloons, flowers and Tricolours at the traffic signal.

She was the poster child for a human rights organisation. But she lived in a shack fabricated out of discarded plywood under the Nehru Place flyover, her parents too poor to afford any better.

For toys, she had empty plastic water bottles that her rag-picker father brought home to sell to scrap dealers. As her playing ground, she had the traffic intersection. On Monday, a day before the National Girl Child Day, Lakshmi was crushed under the wheels of a school bus, underlining all the risks of a childhood on the streets.

Reuters

The three-year-old had been playing with her plastic bottle when it rolled towards the road. Unmindful of the traffic, she ran after the toy and into the path of the approaching bus. Her family had left their home in Rajasthan's Ajmer district with the dream of better future in the capital. Instead, the family lost both its children on the streets, Lakshmi's elder brother, Teju, having succumbed to pneumonia below this very flyover some years ago.

On Tuesday , soon after some of Lakshmi's friends, another 40 kids like her call the flyover a home -returned following the last rites at Bhairon Mandir near Pragati Maidan, they went back to selling seasonal wares on the busy road, this week the national flag in preparation for Republic Day. With no homes, no incomes, no schooling and little official inclination to change their lives, the children, like Lakshmi, flirt with mortal danger every minute of their lives.

All that remains of Lakshmi is a poster that shows the little girl, dishevelled hair, innocent eyed, sipping milk from a plastic cup. "Lakshmi was a beautiful child. See even the NGO people selected her glowing face for their poster," said a sobbing Gyarsi, her grandmother.

The poster was brought out by Centre for Holistic Development for its programme to distribute milk to impoverished children.

Reuters

Born in Kalyanpura in Rajasthan's Ajmer at her maternal grandparent's home, Lakshmi had arrived in Delhi as an eight-month-old baby . Her parents, Mukesh and Sharda, had come to Delhi three years earlier.

Mukesh worked irregularly as a labourer and spent most days salvaging recyclable stuff from garbage, making a measly Rs 6,000 a month. Sharda, weak and tubercular, sold balloons, flowers and Tricolours at the traffic signal.

Reuters

On Tuesday afternoon, the heart-broken parents conducted the last rites of their only girl child, comforted by family members, their fellow flyover inhabitants and some of Lakshmi's friends. Some had brought marigold flowers, others batashe (sugar drops). Soon after, all of them wiped their tears and returned to their 'normal lives' on the risky streets of an uncaring city.

With TOI inputs