The 2017 Investment Guide: Trumponomics
The 2017 Investment Guide: Trumponomics
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Janet Novack       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. If the President-elect’s policies lead t o rising prices, the Trump family will be a big financial winner. Here’s how you can win, too. The time to start positioning yourself for the coming tax cuts is right now. Republicans don't vote for tax hikes, but they do sometimes go for "loophole" closing. How to run a private charity without making the mistakes Trump did. /Instead of chasing the next profitable Trump trade, seek under-the-radar stocks that pay you to hold them.     Largest U.S. Charities For 2016    Trending on {{channel_name}}

While the stock market has enthusiastically embraced the new billionaire-heavy Trump administration, lots of nest-egg-jarring questions remain. Our guide offers do-it-now strategies for everything from profiting from the coming "Trumpflation" to making the most of the likely tax cuts. Are you benefiting from lucrative loopholes? Find out which ones are endangered and why you might want to rewrite your estate plan. Plus, you'll get a host of great Trump-proof buys among stocks and funds and a special year-end giving guide, with our ranking of the 100 largest charities and comparisons of donor advised funds.

Edited By Janet Novack and Matthew Schifrin

Inflation Play/If the President-elect’s policies lead to rising prices, the Trump family will be a big financial winner. Here’s how you can win, too. By William Baldwin

Trump Your Taxes/ The time to start positioning yourself for the coming tax cuts is right now. By William Baldwin

Endangered Species/Republicans don't vote for tax hikes, but they do sometimes go for "loophole" closing. By William Baldwin

Foolproof Foundations/How to run a private charity without making the mistakes Trump did. By Ashlea Ebeling

Small Caps With Big Yields/Instead of chasing the next profitable Trump trade, seek under-the-radar stocks that pay you to hold them. By John Dobosz

Income Investors: Trump On, Risk Off By Richard Lehmann

Trump-Impervious Market By Ken Fisher

YEAR END CHARITABLE GIVING GUIDE

The 100 Largest U.S. Charities For 2016 By William P. Barrett

How To Evaluate A Charity By William P. Barrett

Guidebook For Donor-Advised Funds By William Baldwin

12 Tips For Making Your Charitable Donation Tax Deductible By Kelly Phillips Erb

Why Big Donors Are Fast-Tracking Charitable Gifts To Year-End 2016 By Ashlea Ebeling

10 Private Foundation Do’s And Don’ts By Ashlea Ebeling