21 Savage Kourtney Kardashian Burns We Still Haven’t Recovered From
21 Savage Kourtney Kardashian Burns We Still Haven't Recovered From
When she heard about Rob and Chyna’s engagement. When she struggled to find any sympathy for Kim. When she basically won this argument with a single word. When she had no time for Kris’ ~celebrity~ fashion choices. And when she didn’t care about Kim’s cover, either. Kim: “Kanye and I shot the cover of Vogue, I’m so excited.” Kourtney: “They want me to do Natural Health magazine!” Khloe: “I’m so proud of you!” Kim: “My sister’s reaction is so disappointing.” When she served Scott this perfect burn. When Khloé gave her this compliment. And she made this clarification. Similarly, when she straight-up rejected this compliment. When she asked Kim for spelling advice. When she literally couldn’t deal with Jonathan Cheban. When she delivered this one-liner. When she mocked Scott’s interests while simultaneously getting him to do chores. When she brought Kim right back down to earth. When she was less than impressed with Kris’ photoshoot. And when she gave precisely zero fucks about Kim’s lost diamond earring. When she finally found an entertaining use for Khloé’s label of “the fat sister.” When she shaded the hell out of Kris Humphries. Interviewer: He wants an annulment, is that right? Why an annulment? Kim: He’s suing me for an annulment based on the fact that I frauded him into marrying him for publicity. Kourtney: But, I thikk if she was gonna do it for publicity, she’d pick someone that people knew. And refused to take relationship advice from Kris Jenner. As well as when she had this advice for Kim during her 72 day marriage. When she got Scott’s hopes up, only to shoot them down. Scott: Wanna make a gentlemen’s bet? Where you either bet money or bet something else? Kourtney: Like sexual favours? Scott: REALLY?! Kourtney: No. And, finally, when she was asked to prove her popularity.   24 Memes To Send To Your Significant Other    22 Tweets That Will Make You Love Cats Even More Than...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.