Judge Jeanine on Potential Voter Fraud: 'Dead People Vote All the Time'

Judge Jeanine on Potential Voter Fraud: 'Dead People Vote All the Time' // // // // Judge Jeanine Pirro was a guest Wednesday on "Outnumbered" to discuss President Donald Trump's call for an investigation into alleged voter fraud in the 2016 election. Trump recently said that he would have also won the popular vote if not for millions of illegal votes cast. I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017 "Dead people vote all the time," Judge Pirro said of the suspected voter fraud.  She said the Department of Justice under the Obama Administration interfered with the cleaning up of voter rolls. As a result, it would not have been too difficult for undocumented immigrants to vote in the election. "Let's not kid ourselves. This is not as loony as it sounds. ... There are some counties in this country where there are more people on the voter rolls than there are in the county. That make no sense," the judge said. Watch the full panel discussion in the video above, and tell us what you think in the comments section.

Judge Jeanine Pirro was a guest Wednesday on "Outnumbered" to discuss President Donald Trump's call for an investigation into alleged voter fraud in the 2016 election.

Trump recently said that he would have also won the popular vote if not for millions of illegal votes cast.

I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

"Dead people vote all the time," Judge Pirro said of the suspected voter fraud.

MUST-SEE: Judge Jeanine, Ben Stein Battle Over Trump's Promises

Gingrich: Every Time Voter Fraud Is Brought Up, Dems Scream 'Racist'

She said the Department of Justice under the Obama Administration interfered with the cleaning up of voter rolls. As a result, it would not have been too difficult for undocumented immigrants to vote in the election.

"Let's not kid ourselves. This is not as loony as it sounds. ... There are some counties in this country where there are more people on the voter rolls than there are in the county. That make no sense," the judge said.

Watch the full panel discussion in the video above, and tell us what you think in the comments section.

Border Agents Welcome Trump Plan to End Catch-and-Release 'Loopholes'

Secret Service Agent Suggests She Wouldn't Take Bullet for Trump

TUNE IN: Hannity to Interview President Trump at White House Thursday