The Limit Does Not Exist by Forbes on iTunes
The Limit Does Not Exist by Forbes on iTunes


1 Clean The Big Band Theory We interview Stephon Alexander, physicist, jazz saxophonist, professor at Brown University, and author of the book The Jazz of Physics. Stephon explains why quantum physics is a lot like jazz improvisation and how working on physics in... Free View in iTunes

2 Clean Creatives Who Code We talk with Leah Gilliam, the VP of Strategy and Innovation at Girls Who Code. Leah began her career as an artist, filmmaker, and academic before shifting over to game design and STEM education. We discuss how to narrate your own Human... Free View in iTunes

3 Clean STEM Warrior Princess We interview Dr. Carol Lynn Curchoe, scientist, STEM educator, and the founder of 32ATPs, a clean energy biotech company. Carol is also the former Utah State Science Advisor and (in true #HumanVennDiagram form) helps run a stage plot app... Free View in iTunes

4 Clean Impromptu Dance Party - Ep 28 It's our first C&C episode of the year! We discuss motion-capture Shakespeare, Hidden Figures, as well as Obama's STEM and arts legacy. We also talk about why it's the perfect time to make your balanced scorecard for the... Free View in iTunes

5 Clean Everything Is Super Awesome - Ep 27 We hang out with Adam Ward, a multi-hyphenate artist who works primarily in LEGO. Adam has created major installations for brands like Tumblr, Microsoft, Genentech, and The Oscars, and is in the second season of his hit YouTube series BRICK... Free View in iTunes

6 Clean Power Moves - Ep 26 We talk with Gabrielle Reece, pro athlete, New York Times best-selling author, host, health and wellness entrepreneur, and part-time resident of Hawaii. We discuss the power of diversifying through the lens of athletics, why mentors are... Free View in iTunes

7 Clean A Portfolio Kind of Person - Ep 25 We interview Randi Zuckerberg, founder and CEO of Zuckerberg Media and author of Dot Complicated, which is now a multimedia platform spanning a radio show, a website, a children's book, an animated series, and more. Randi shares how... Free View in iTunes

8 Clean Binary Besties - Ep 24 It's the final C&C episode of the year, and we've got a lot of catching up to do! We learn why Christina just came from prison, why Cate's no longer on the market (but also totally is), and we get a visit from the BroadMic... Free View in iTunes

9 Clean Every Expedition Needs an Artist - Ep 23 We talk with Dr. Sarah Jane Pell, an Australian artist, researcher, occupational diver, and lover of space who is currently training to be an "artist-astronaut" and will soon be bringing art to a suborbital space mission. We discuss... Free View in iTunes

10 Clean Choreographing the Future - Ep 22 We interview Sydney Skybetter: choreographer, change agent, curator, and first-class Human Venn Diagram (he even has one on his website!). We discuss gestural grammar, disruption theory, a quick fix for slash-artist syndrome, why you should... Free View in iTunes

11 Clean STEM To STEAM - Ep 21 We talk with Taoufik Nadji, professor of physics, astronomy, math, and forensic science at Interlochen Arts Academy. Mr. Nadji is famous at Interlochen for his ingenious ways of incorporating arts and science and making STEM thrilling.... Free View in iTunes

12 Clean Rise Up! - Ep 20 It's another Cate and Christina episode, and we're talking about the election through the Human Venn Diagram lens. We cover big data and whether or not it failed us in predicting the winner, plus the difference between certainty... Free View in iTunes

13 Clean Follow the Women - Ep 19 We talk with Camille Seaman, an award-winning photojournalist, documentary filmmaker, Stanford Knight Fellow, and a TED Senior Fellow, who strongly believes in capturing photographs which articulate that humans are not separate from nature.... Free View in iTunes

14 Clean Sensing Symmetry - Ep 18 We interview Alexander Green, the founder and CEO of Symmetry Labs, which is creating the future of lighting. Alex was trained as a mathematical and theoretical physicist as well as a classical musician before he pivoted over to hardware,... Free View in iTunes

15 Clean The Science of Drama - Ep 17 We talk with Lauren Gunderson, who is the most produced living playwright in America this year, as well the winner of this year's New Dramatists' Lanford Wilson Award, and a recipient of the Mellon Foundation's 3-Year Residency... Free View in iTunes

16 Clean Headspace - Ep 16 It's another Cate and Christina episode! On this episode, we're talking about headspace. When is it time for a break, and what does that look like? We also discuss the seasonality of careers and how to take stock of where you are... Free View in iTunes

17 Clean Govern in Poetry - Ep 15 We talk with Emileigh Barnes, a poet and a content designer for 18F, a digital services agency based within the United States' General Services Administration. We discuss creativity at work and the challenges of the maker vs. manager... Free View in iTunes

18 Clean It's Go Time - Ep 14 We interview Binta Niambi Brown, Founder and CEO of Fermata Entertainment-an artist management, development and production company-as well Big Mouth Records, a boutique record label based in Brooklyn, New York. We discuss why having mix... Free View in iTunes

19 Clean Charmed by a Robot - Ep 13 We talk with Dan Maccarone, Founder and CEO of Charming Robot, about his theater background and the intersection between the performing arts and the business world. We dig into Dan's path from journalism school to UX design to creating... Free View in iTunes

20 Clean Fall Into Originality We close our first season with reflections, tips, hot topics, and essential reading material for every Human Venn Diagram. We discuss Gwyneth Paltrow, big data, and those Wells Fargo ads; plus, we share major insights from Adam Grant's... Free View in iTunes

21 Clean The Proximity of Luck We interview Marquise Stillwell, the Founder and Principal of Openbox, an independent design and innovation consultancy that helps organizations and communities think, build, and grow together. Why you should play early and play often,... Free View in iTunes

22 Clean Race Cars and Robot Cakes We interview Dr. Abigail Edgecliff?e?-Johnson, the founder and CEO of a STEM toy company called RaceYa?,?who has a PhD in Medical Anthropology and has worked in everything from HIV research to finance to media to drug policy. We discuss... Free View in iTunes

23 Clean The Art of Play We interview Risa Puno, an interactive installation and sculpture artist based in New York, who also happens to be an incredible baker and math tutor. We discuss the importance of play in art and life, what it's like to be an artist... Free View in iTunes

24 Clean The VR Vanguard We interview Eugene Chung, a film director, tech investor, and founder and CEO of Penrose Studios, a virtual reality and augmented reality startup that is being called the Pixar of VR. We discuss what it's like to be creating an entirely... Free View in iTunes

25 Clean Fluent Dynamics We interview Dr. Shini Somara, a mechanical engineer and science reporter for the BBC who teaches Crash Course Physics on YouTube. Why Americans stink at math, how to unlock a passion for STEM through curiosity and failure, plus the art... Free View in iTunes

26 Clean The Struggle Is Real For the first time since Episode #1, we hang out for some real talk. What personal challenges we're navigating while living the #humanVenndiagram life, plus gifted intensity, authenticity, and imposter syndrome. And we answer listener... Free View in iTunes

27 Clean Snakes on a Podcast We interview Frank Burbrink, an assistant curator of herpetology at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. What exactly herpetology is and what computer programming has to do with it, plus comic books, punk rock, tattoos, multipotentialites,. Free View in iTunes

28 Clean Brain Scooped We interview Emily Graslie, Chief Curiosity Correspondent at The Field Museum in Chicago? ?and host of The Brain Scoop on YouTube?. How a landscape painter found her calling of getting people excited about dead things?, climactic uncertainty,... Free View in iTunes

29 Clean Where Light Resides We interview Pixar's Danielle Feinberg, Director of Photography for Lighting on films like WALL-E, Brave, and the upcoming Coco. Why the 10,000 hours rule may not apply to you, what computer programming and algorithms have to do with... Free View in iTunes

30 Clean Mohawk Guy We interview Bobak Ferdowsi, a member of the Flight System Engineering team on the Europa mission and Flight Director for the Curiosity Rover on Mars at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory... and "mohawk guy" on the Internet. What... Free View in iTunes