Economist: Stock Market Gained $2T in Wealth Since Trump Elected

Economist: Stock Market Gained $2T in Wealth Since Trump Elected // // // // Club For Growth founder Stephen Moore reacted to reporting that since President Trump was elected, the stock market gained $2 trillion in wealth. Great! #Dow20K  https://t.co/wXFhXBLgag — President Trump (@POTUS) January 25, 2017 "This could be the start of a big bull market rally," Moore said on Risk & Reward, noting the market today crossed 20,000 point threshold. Elizabeth MacDonald recounted how former President Barack Obama told a crowd in 2016 that Trump would need a "magic wand" to bring lost jobs and manufacturing back to America. Moore said that statement, compounded with Democrats' becoming "subservient" to billionaire Tom Steyer and his climate-change-advocate allies, have opened the door for union cooperation with the White House. "We want jobs, not a radical climate change agenda," Moore said in characterizing union bosses' political mindset. Earlier on Fox News Channel, Teamsters' president James P. Hoffa also reacted to the improving jobs outlook . What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Club For Growth founder Stephen Moore reacted to reporting that since President Trump was elected, the stock market gained $2 trillion in wealth.

"This could be the start of a big bull market rally," Moore said on Risk & Reward, noting the market today crossed 20,000 point threshold.

Elizabeth MacDonald recounted how former President Barack Obama told a crowd in 2016 that Trump would need a "magic wand" to bring lost jobs and manufacturing back to America.

Teamsters' Hoffa: Trump Doing What We've Talked About for a Decade

Here's How Trump Could Make Mexico Pay for the Border Wall

Trump: Today, US Gets Back Control of Its Borders

Moore said that statement, compounded with Democrats' becoming "subservient" to billionaire Tom Steyer and his climate-change-advocate allies, have opened the door for union cooperation with the White House.

"We want jobs, not a radical climate change agenda," Moore said in characterizing union bosses' political mindset.

Earlier on Fox News Channel, Teamsters' president James P. Hoffa also reacted to the improving jobs outlook.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

Secret Service Agent Suggests She Wouldn't Take Bullet for Trump

Farage: The People Will Revolt in 'Extraordinary Way' If Brexit Is Threatened

LIVE-STREAM: Protesters Climb Construction Crane Blocks from White House