National Television Awards 2017: Mary Berry triumphs and Casualty wins over Game of Thrones, plus full list of winners
National Television Awards 2017: Mary Berry triumphs and Casualty wins over Game of Thrones, plus full list of winners
he Great British Bake Off 's Mary Berry won the TV judge prize at the National Television Awards, beating another recently-departed judge Len Goodman to the honour. The TV veteran, who stood down from her role as a judge on the popular cookery programme due to its move from the BBC to Channel 4, also beat The X Factor and Britain's Got Talent's Simon Cowell, BGT's David Walliams and The X Factor's Nicole Scherzinger. trictly Come Dancing 's Goodman finished his 12-year tenure on the dancing show's panel in December. A stunned Berry, 81, was cheered by the audience gathered at London's O2 Arena as she took to the stage with the help of host Dermot O'Leary before accepting the award, which was voted for by the public. She said: "I'm thrilled ... I love judging, it has always been a great honour. "I think I know how to bake and I love telling people that, next time, do a little bit better. "But the greatest reward is that all the young are baking and everybody is sitting down at 8pm, the whole family: gran, the baby in arms. There is no swearing, it's the best programme, and I'm so grateful, and thank you very much." V duo Ant and Dec were named as the first winners of the night at the NTAs, scooping the entertainment programme prize for their show Saturday Night Takeaway, beating other popular shows such as The Graham Norton Show and Keith Lemon's Celebrity Juice. Accepting the award, Ant said: "It really is our baby and, it's a bit of a shock first award up, but what a thrill." ec said: "Thank you, thank you so much, thank you to all of the talented clever people that stand behind us here and come up with all the ideas and all that. We have such fun doing it and thrilled you like watching it. "We're back at the end of February for another run." ong-running BBC medical drama Casualty beat big hitters such as Game Of Thrones, The Night Manager and Happy Valley to be named the winner of the drama category. Collecting the award on stage with members of the cast and crew, actress Amanda Mealing said: "Thank you very, very much all of you that voted for us, we've been going for 30 years, some of you have been watching from the very start and some of you are new. You are strong, you are true, you are faithful." Her co-star Cathy Shipton said the win was a wonderful way to celebrate the show's 30th anniversary, adding: "Thank you all for keeping us there." EastEnders star Lacey Turner won the coveted serial drama performance award. he actress, who plays Stacey Slater, fought back tears as she took to the stage. She said: "Oh my goodness. I was so sure I was staying in my seat. Thank you so much to everybody who voted, who supported me over the last 12 years. I can't tell you how much it means." After thanking her family and friends, she added: "Most of all thank you to all of those people sitting over there, it is so, I feel so lucky to wake up every day and love my job. I really am part of a team, a community, one big family, and for that I really am proud. "This one's for the Fowlers, thank you!" Channel 4's hit show, Gogglebox, can also celebrate a win as they took home the gong in the factual entertainment category. Mrs Brown's Boys won the accolade of best comedy programme, fending off competition from The Big Bang Theory, Benidorm and Orange Is The New Black. he award was presented by comedy legend Sir Ken Dodd, who joked that the arena was a "magnificent shed" before reading out the nominees and eventual winner. The comedy programme's, Brendan O'Carroll, thanked the public for voting and made a reference to Sir Ken's accidental reading out of Mrs Brown's Boys twice in the run up to the reveal. O'Carroll, joined by the cast and crew of the BBC sitcom, said: "Thank you so much, we're all here ... thank you Sir Ken, to be nominated twice in the same category is amazing, we so appreciate it. "Thank you so much to all of you who voted, it's really important that you vote, this is the most important award we get. "It's very, very exciting and very humbling. Thanks to the BBC and everyone involved." Full list of winners Entertainment Programme: Drama Performance Factual Entertainment: Serial Drama Performance: Comedy: TV Judge: Daytime: Period Drama: Live Magazine: Newcomer: TV Presenter: Special Recognition – Drama – Challenge Show – Serial Drama - Talent Show -

The actress, who plays Stacey Slater, fought back tears as she took to the stage.

She said: "Oh my goodness. I was so sure I was staying in my seat. Thank you so much to everybody who voted, who supported me over the last 12 years. I can't tell you how much it means."

After thanking her family and friends, she added: "Most of all thank you to all of those people sitting over there, it is so, I feel so lucky to wake up every day and love my job. I really am part of a team, a community, one big family, and for that I really am proud.

"This one's for the Fowlers, thank you!"

Channel 4's hit show, Gogglebox, can also celebrate a win as they took home the gong in the factual entertainment category.

Mrs Brown's Boys won the accolade of best comedy programme, fending off competition from The Big Bang Theory, Benidorm and Orange Is The New Black.