Brexit exodus: EU academics 'already pulling out' of UK universities, MPs warned
Brexit exodus: EU academics 'already pulling out' of UK universities, MPs warned
British universities are already losing out on vital research as a result of Brexit , a leading advisor has warned, with universities reporting that academics are already pulling out of research bids as a consequence. Dr Jo Beall, Director of Education and Society for the British Council, said the Government must take action “immediately” into securing the future of university research , or risk irrevocable damage to industry reputation. Her comments were given alongside evidence presented to the Education Select Committee as part of an inquiry into the impact of Brexit on higher education .   Hard Brexit could be 'biggest disaster' for UK universities in years Speaking on the panel with Dr Beall, representatives from the University and College Union, the Erasmus scheme, Universities UK and London Economics voiced fears over the future of university funding and said detailed reassurance was needed for EU students and staff living and working in the UK . Sally Hunt, General Secretary of the University and College Union, which represents academics from thousands of universities across the UK, said the Prime Minister’s speech on Brexit negotiations had left many issues concerning the sector “unclear”. “The sector feels, alongside many others, that those who are from the EU feel a sense of being unwelcome,” she added. “That’s something that the Prime Minister’s speech did not address”. “Our EU national members feel very strongly that they are having to look elsewhere for long-term employment,” she said. The hearing at University College London on Wednesday was the second evidence session to be held by the committee, following months of concern from top academics and education leaders over the practicalities of Britain’s departure from the EU. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures       Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA        Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA        Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA        Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images        Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images        Police forensic officers at the scene after a woman's body was found in a car outside a Lidl supermarket in the Tile Cross area of Birmingham   PA wire        UKIP Health Spokesperson Suzanne Evans gives a major health policy speech as part of a push to help the party leader Paul Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency   Getty Images        Paul Nuttall, leader of UKIP embraces the party's Health Spokesperson, Suzanne Evans, after she spoke to the media about the party's health policy as part of a push to help Mr Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters     18 January 2017   Drug smuggler Errol Watson who has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid.  Watson, 54, from Wanstead, east London, was arrested after Border Force officers at Gatwick examined a consignment labelled as oil filters from Barbados. Officers drilled inside to find bright pink liquid which tested positive for cocaine after an x-ray of the filters raised suspicions   PA     18 January 2017   The pipes that contained cocaine as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid   PA     18 January 2017   Cocaine being extracted from a pipe as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years   PA     17 January 2017   A general view of a Green Plaque unveiled to celebrate 100 years of the Ivy   Getty Images     17 January 2017   The Ivy Restaurant in London as it celebrates its 100th anniversary   PA wire     17 January 2017   The coffin of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England   Getty Images     17 January 2017   The funeral cortege of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England   Getty Images     17 January 2017   Jill Saward's husband Gavin Drake is comforted after her funeral at Lichfield Cathedral in Staffordshire   PA wire     17 January 2017   The sun rises through the frosty mist in as deer graze in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire   PA     17 January 2017   A misty Sunrise in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire   PA     16 January 2017   Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   On Your Wavelength by Marcus Lyall uses mind-power to choreograph light patterns at the Canary Wharf Winter Lights Festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Horizontal Interference by Joachim Slugocki and Katarzyna Malejka illuminates Westferry Circus in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Ovo, by Ovo Collective immerses visitors in a unique light structure as part of the Canary Wharf Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     12 January 2017   A postman in Braco, near Stirling, Scotland.  Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Andrew Milligan/PA Wire     12 January 2017   Highland cattle in the snow near Brough.   Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Owen Humphreys/PA Wire     12 January 2017   Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Andrew Milligan/PA Wire  Appearing in front of the committee in Oxford earlier this month, Alistair Fitt, vice-chancellor of Oxford Brookes University , told committee members that Brexit “would probably be the biggest disaster for the university sector in many years”. Vice-chancellors had previously complained that reassurances were yet to be made from the Government over the future of funding for university research, as much of this comes from the EU. It was also said that early indications show the number of prospective EU students choosing to study in the UK might fall as a result of Brexit – a loss that could cost the UK economy more than £690m per year. Applications from across the European Union have already dropped by 14 per cent at Cambridge University for undergraduate courses alone, MPs were told. Speaking on Wednesday, industry members said Theresa May’s speech had done little to address these issues, leaving millions of university staff and students in the dark. Last week the Prime Minister indicated that she wanted EU nationals to have the right to remain in Britain, but gave no guarantee. Speaking on Wednesday, industry members said her speech had done little to address the industry’s concerns, leaving millions of university staff and students in the dark. Sally Hunt said that instead of trying to pass the responsibility onto other countries yet to offer reciprocal deals, the Prime Minister should "act now to reassure the thousands of EU staff working in UK universities that they will be able to remain in the country". Panel members also discussed the threatened future of the Erasmus scheme, which is funded primarily by the EU and allows access for students to study abroad as part of their degree course. Ms Hunt said: “It will make the study of languages in the UK almost redundant if we can’t have Erasmus”. Referring to the Prime Minister’s vision of a “truly global Britain,” Rosie Birchard, of Erasmus Student Network UK, said there was a "distinct contradiction” between the “aspirations of a global Britain and what those actions will be”. Dr Beall added that if UK wanted to be “successful globally,” students will need to speak and have access to other languages". The advisor added that any alternative model would cost the Government substantially more, and would not necessarily guarantee students of all backgrounds the access to studying abroad that the Erasmus scheme does. “With Erasmus, we get a lot of bang for our buck,” she said. Read more King's College London admits it is monitoring students' emails Sussex University ‘failed duty of care’ to student assault victim Record number of university students graduate with first-class degrees Written evidence published by the House of Commons Education Committee in recent weeks highlighted concerns from 190 individual groups within the sector, following an inquiry into the impact of Brexit. Cambridge University’s submission warned that Brexit could push the reputation of UK universities off a “cliff edge”, leading to “serious repercussions” should academics be denied free movement and required to apply for visas. EU citizens from outside the UK currently make up around five per cent of students, accounting for almost a quarter of maths students at Russell Group universities and more than 20 per cent of academic staff overall. Students from other EU countries are estimated to have contributed £2.7bn to the British economy, along with 19,000 extra jobs. More about: Brexit Education Select Committee Erasmus UK universities Higher Education University College London Comments

British universities are already losing out on vital research as a result of Brexit, a leading advisor has warned, with universities reporting that academics are already pulling out of research bids as a consequence.

Dr Jo Beall, Director of Education and Society for the British Council, said the Government must take action “immediately” into securing the future of university research, or risk irrevocable damage to industry reputation.

Her comments were given alongside evidence presented to the Education Select Committee as part of an inquiry into the impact of Brexit on higher education.

Speaking on the panel with Dr Beall, representatives from the University and College Union, the Erasmus scheme, Universities UK and London Economics voiced fears over the future of university funding and said detailed reassurance was needed for EU students and staff living and working in the UK.

Sally Hunt, General Secretary of the University and College Union, which represents academics from thousands of universities across the UK, said the Prime Minister’s speech on Brexit negotiations had left many issues concerning the sector “unclear”.

“The sector feels, alongside many others, that those who are from the EU feel a sense of being unwelcome,” she added. “That’s something that the Prime Minister’s speech did not address”.

“Our EU national members feel very strongly that they are having to look elsewhere for long-term employment,” she said.

The hearing at University College London on Wednesday was the second evidence session to be held by the committee, following months of concern from top academics and education leaders over the practicalities of Britain’s departure from the EU.

UK news in pictures







31 show all UK news in pictures



























































1/31 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

2/31 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

3/31 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

4/31 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

5/31 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

6/31 Police forensic officers at the scene after a woman's body was found in a car outside a Lidl supermarket in the Tile Cross area of Birmingham PA wire

7/31 UKIP Health Spokesperson Suzanne Evans gives a major health policy speech as part of a push to help the party leader Paul Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency Getty Images

8/31 Paul Nuttall, leader of UKIP embraces the party's Health Spokesperson, Suzanne Evans, after she spoke to the media about the party's health policy as part of a push to help Mr Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency Getty Images

9/31 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

10/31 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/31 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

12/31 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/31 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

14/31 18 January 2017 Drug smuggler Errol Watson who has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid. Watson, 54, from Wanstead, east London, was arrested after Border Force officers at Gatwick examined a consignment labelled as oil filters from Barbados. Officers drilled inside to find bright pink liquid which tested positive for cocaine after an x-ray of the filters raised suspicions PA

15/31 18 January 2017 The pipes that contained cocaine as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid PA

16/31 18 January 2017 Cocaine being extracted from a pipe as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years PA

17/31 17 January 2017 A general view of a Green Plaque unveiled to celebrate 100 years of the Ivy Getty Images

18/31 17 January 2017 The Ivy Restaurant in London as it celebrates its 100th anniversary PA wire

19/31 17 January 2017 The coffin of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England Getty Images

20/31 17 January 2017 The funeral cortege of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England Getty Images

21/31 17 January 2017 Jill Saward's husband Gavin Drake is comforted after her funeral at Lichfield Cathedral in Staffordshire PA wire

22/31 17 January 2017 The sun rises through the frosty mist in as deer graze in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire PA

23/31 17 January 2017 A misty Sunrise in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire PA

24/31 16 January 2017 Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

25/31 16 January 2017 On Your Wavelength by Marcus Lyall uses mind-power to choreograph light patterns at the Canary Wharf Winter Lights Festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

26/31 16 January 2017 Horizontal Interference by Joachim Slugocki and Katarzyna Malejka illuminates Westferry Circus in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

27/31 16 January 2017 Ovo, by Ovo Collective immerses visitors in a unique light structure as part of the Canary Wharf Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

28/31 16 January 2017 Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

29/31 12 January 2017 A postman in Braco, near Stirling, Scotland. Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Andrew Milligan/PA Wire

30/31 12 January 2017 Highland cattle in the snow near Brough. Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Owen Humphreys/PA Wire

31/31 12 January 2017 Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Andrew Milligan/PA Wire

Appearing in front of the committee in Oxford earlier this month, Alistair Fitt, vice-chancellor of Oxford Brookes University, told committee members that Brexit “would probably be the biggest disaster for the university sector in many years”.

Vice-chancellors had previously complained that reassurances were yet to be made from the Government over the future of funding for university research, as much of this comes from the EU.

It was also said that early indications show the number of prospective EU students choosing to study in the UK might fall as a result of Brexit – a loss that could cost the UK economy more than £690m per year.

Applications from across the European Union have already dropped by 14 per cent at Cambridge University for undergraduate courses alone, MPs were told.

Speaking on Wednesday, industry members said Theresa May’s speech had done little to address these issues, leaving millions of university staff and students in the dark.

Last week the Prime Minister indicated that she wanted EU nationals to have the right to remain in Britain, but gave no guarantee.

Speaking on Wednesday, industry members said her speech had done little to address the industry’s concerns, leaving millions of university staff and students in the dark.

Theresa May pledges white paper on Brexit strategy

Sally Hunt said that instead of trying to pass the responsibility onto other countries yet to offer reciprocal deals, the Prime Minister should "act now to reassure the thousands of EU staff working in UK universities that they will be able to remain in the country".

Panel members also discussed the threatened future of the Erasmus scheme, which is funded primarily by the EU and allows access for students to study abroad as part of their degree course.

Ms Hunt said: “It will make the study of languages in the UK almost redundant if we can’t have Erasmus”.

Referring to the Prime Minister’s vision of a “truly global Britain,” Rosie Birchard, of Erasmus Student Network UK, said there was a "distinct contradiction” between the “aspirations of a global Britain and what those actions will be”.

Dr Beall added that if UK wanted to be “successful globally,” students will need to speak and have access to other languages".

The advisor added that any alternative model would cost the Government substantially more, and would not necessarily guarantee students of all backgrounds the access to studying abroad that the Erasmus scheme does.

“With Erasmus, we get a lot of bang for our buck,” she said.

Written evidence published by the House of Commons Education Committee in recent weeks highlighted concerns from 190 individual groups within the sector, following an inquiry into the impact of Brexit.

Cambridge University’s submission warned that Brexit could push the reputation of UK universities off a “cliff edge”, leading to “serious repercussions” should academics be denied free movement and required to apply for visas.

EU citizens from outside the UK currently make up around five per cent of students, accounting for almost a quarter of maths students at Russell Group universities and more than 20 per cent of academic staff overall.

Students from other EU countries are estimated to have contributed £2.7bn to the British economy, along with 19,000 extra jobs.