Lyft launches in 40 new cities, 3 new states
Lyft launches in 40 new cities, 3 new states
Lyft isn't giving in to Uber just yet. The underdog ride-hailing company is launching in 40 U.S. cities on Thursday. The launch brings Lyft to three new states: New Hampshire, Delaware and Missouri. The 40 cities are spread throughout the United States. Many on Lyft's list already have Uber, but a few in California, Tennessee and Arizona do not, according to Uber's list of its cities in North America. SEE ALSO: UberPool is trying to speed up your shared rides Lyft is planning to enter a total of 100 cities throughout 2017. The goal is for the ride-hailing app to move from covering 55 percent of the U.S. population to 72 percent by the end of the year. Uber, meanwhile, is more focused on its continued international expansion and furthering the reach of its food delivery service, UberEats. “We are building on the momentum of an awesome 2016 and will accelerate our launch pace over the next several months,” Lyft's head of early stage markets and expansion Jaime Raczka said in a statement. “There is a lot of excitement from both passengers and drivers as Lyft expands into these new markets.” Here are the first 40 cities Lyft is adding in 2017: Lake Havasu City, Ariz. Yuma, Ariz. Chico, Calif. El Centro, Calif. Merced, Calif. Redding, Calif. San Luis Obispo, Calif. Victorville, Calif. Yuba City, Calif. Dover, Del. Idaho Falls, Idaho Fort Wayne, Ind. South Bend, Ind. Wichita, Kan. Bowling Green, Ky. Baton Rouge, La. Springfield, Mo. Fayetteville, N.C. Jacksonville, N.C. Outer Banks, N.C. Salisbury, N.C. Manchester, N.H. Gallup, N.M. Las Cruces, N.M. Altoona, Pa. Erie, Pa. Johnstown, Pa. Williamsport, Pa. Columbia, S.C. Greenville, S.C. Myrtle Beach, S.C. Spartanburg, S.C. Clarksville, Tenn. Johnson City, Tenn. Logan, Utah St. George, Utah Blacksburg, Va. Harrisonburg, Va. Lynchburg, Va. Roanoke, Va. BONUS: Getting everything out of a tube will never be a struggle again

Lyft isn't giving in to Uber just yet.

The underdog ride-hailing company is launching in 40 U.S. cities on Thursday. The launch brings Lyft to three new states: New Hampshire, Delaware and Missouri.

The 40 cities are spread throughout the United States. Many on Lyft's list already have Uber, but a few in California, Tennessee and Arizona do not, according to Uber's list of its cities in North America.

SEE ALSO: UberPool is trying to speed up your shared rides

Lyft is planning to enter a total of 100 cities throughout 2017. The goal is for the ride-hailing app to move from covering 55 percent of the U.S. population to 72 percent by the end of the year. Uber, meanwhile, is more focused on its continued international expansion and furthering the reach of its food delivery service, UberEats.

“We are building on the momentum of an awesome 2016 and will accelerate our launch pace over the next several months,” Lyft's head of early stage markets and expansion Jaime Raczka said in a statement. “There is a lot of excitement from both passengers and drivers as Lyft expands into these new markets.”

Here are the first 40 cities Lyft is adding in 2017:

Lake Havasu City, Ariz.

Yuma, Ariz.

Chico, Calif.

El Centro, Calif.

Merced, Calif.

Redding, Calif.

San Luis Obispo, Calif.

Victorville, Calif.

Yuba City, Calif.

Dover, Del.

Idaho Falls, Idaho

Fort Wayne, Ind.

South Bend, Ind.

Wichita, Kan.

Bowling Green, Ky.

Baton Rouge, La.

Springfield, Mo.

Fayetteville, N.C.

Jacksonville, N.C.

Outer Banks, N.C.

Salisbury, N.C.

Manchester, N.H.

Gallup, N.M.

Las Cruces, N.M.

Altoona, Pa.

Erie, Pa.

Johnstown, Pa.

Williamsport, Pa.

Columbia, S.C.

Greenville, S.C.

Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Spartanburg, S.C.

Clarksville, Tenn.

Johnson City, Tenn.

Logan, Utah

St. George, Utah

Blacksburg, Va.

Harrisonburg, Va.

Lynchburg, Va.

Roanoke, Va.