Ravens Kicker Justin Tucker Nails 75-Yard FG at Pro Bowl Practice
Ravens Kicker Justin Tucker Nails 75-Yard FG at Pro Bowl Practice
From 75 in sunny Orlando! Shoutout to #RavensFlock!! https://t.co/QYaxVw7FML Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker is more than deserving of his Pro Bowl nod. In recent seasons, Tucker has made a strong case as the best kicker in the league. He went 38-of-39 (97.4 percent) on field-goal attempts this season and a perfect 27-of-27 on extra-point attempts. Not bad considering this was a year to forget for most kickers. The regular season was apparently just child's play for the Baltimore veteran. On Wednesday afternoon in Orlando, Tucker showed off his range by nailing a 75-yard field goal in practice. Seventy. Five. Yards. In other words, 11 yards farther than the NFL record. Tucker is a solid 28-of-40 in his career from 50-plus yards, including a career long of 61 yards. A practice kick is quite different than an in-game one, but should the Ravens ever need three points late in a game, it's got to be nice to know their kicker has serious range. Matt Prater couldn't let Tucker enjoy his moment. The Detroit Lions kicker, who holds the NFL record for the longest field goal (64 yards) in an actual game, one-upped Tucker with a 76-yard conversion Saturday morning: https://t.co/ihwxT8oD28 [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker is more than deserving of his Pro Bowl nod.

In recent seasons, Tucker has made a strong case as the best kicker in the league. He went 38-of-39 (97.4 percent) on field-goal attempts this season and a perfect 27-of-27 on extra-point attempts. Not bad considering this was a year to forget for most kickers.

The regular season was apparently just child's play for the Baltimore veteran.

On Wednesday afternoon in Orlando, Tucker showed off his range by nailing a 75-yard field goal in practice. Seventy. Five. Yards. In other words, 11 yards farther than the NFL record.

Tucker is a solid 28-of-40 in his career from 50-plus yards, including a career long of 61 yards. A practice kick is quite different than an in-game one, but should the Ravens ever need three points late in a game, it's got to be nice to know their kicker has serious range.

UPDATE: Saturday, Jan. 28, at 12:35 p.m. ET

Matt Prater couldn't let Tucker enjoy his moment.



The Detroit Lions kicker, who holds the NFL record for the longest field goal (64 yards) in an actual game, one-upped Tucker with a 76-yard conversion Saturday morning:







[Twitter]