Mar-a-Lago Doubles Its Initiation Fee as Membership Interest Swells
Mar-a-Lago Doubles Its Initiation Fee as Membership Interest Swells
■ The Mar-a-Lago resort doubles its initiation fee — to $200,000 — leading to charges that the Trump Organization is cashing in on its founder’s power. ■ By President Trump’s definition of voter fraud, his senior adviser, Steve Bannon, his Treasury secretary nominee and one of his daughters could be swept up in the investigation. ■ The Twitter rebellion seems to be spreading as the Defense Department weighs in on Muslim refugees. Ka-ching! Mar-a-Lago membership cost doubles, to $200,000 The initiation fee at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago club in Florida — which the president himself has called the Winter White House — has doubled to $200,000, after membership applications surged in the wake of Mr. Trump’s election, the head of membership there said. Advertisement Bernd Lembcke, the managing director at the Palm Beach, Fla., club, said the change in the initiation fee had been planned last fall, before the election, and that $200,000 had been the fee before 2010, when it was cut in half because of the recession. Advertisement But Mr. Lembcke, who has been at the club for 21 years, said that it also reflected the upswing in Mar-a-Lago’s popularity. “We have had a sudden surge in requests,” he said, adding that new members must be recommended by someone who is already a member, as is the case at many private clubs. Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit group that promotes government ethics, said the move showed that Mr. Trump and his family intended to profit from his status as president. “At the minimum, this creates the appearance of cashing in the presidency and selling direct personal access to the president,” he said. “It is unacceptable. And it demeans the office of the presidency.” The new initiation fee went into effect on Jan. 1, although the annual dues remained the same — $14,000 a year, he said. The club has 482 members, with a cap of 500. “It enhances it,” Mr. Lembcke said of Mr. Trump’s new job and its impact on the value of the membership. “His presidency does.” “But we are very careful in vetting them,” he added. News about the change in the initiation fee was reported by CNBC . Who’s a fraudulent voter now? By President Trump’s definition, his senior White House adviser, Steve Bannon, is apparently committing voter fraud . Advertisement So is his nominee to be the next Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin . So, apparently, is one of his daughters, Tiffany Trump . Mr. Trump was pretty broad with his definition of voter fraud when he took to Twitter Wednesday morning to request an investigation of the nefarious conduct of the 2016 electorate — with no evidence to support it. I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... There is, in fact, a difference between investigating actual voter fraud and cleaning up the voter rolls. If you move states, you aren’t usually required to tell the state you are leaving that you no longer want to be on the roster. And so it goes that Mr. Bannon is registered in Sarasota County, Fla., and New York City. Mr. Mnuchin appears on the rolls of New York and California. And Tiffany Trump, should she choose, could potentially vote in Pennsylvania and New York. If she did, of course, that would be fraud. First Lady of Israel congratulates Melania Trump Now Melania Trump is fielding her own foreign leader calls. Sara Netanyahu, the wife of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, called Mrs. Trump on Wednesday to congratulate her on becoming the first lady, according to the prime minister’s office. “The two of them look forward to seeing each other soon in Washington and to working together to strengthen the ties between Israel and the United States,” Mr. Netanyahu’s office said. Their husbands spoke by telephone earlier in the week, and Mr. Trump invited Mr. Netanyahu to visit him in Washington next month. Trump nominates a Navy secretary as Pentagon begins to fill President Trump announced that he will nominate businessman and former military intelligence officer Philip Bilden as secretary of the Navy. Advertisement Mr. Bilden, who ran a private equity firm in Hong Kong until retiring three years ago, has expertise in both maritime affairs and Asia — two areas that are of central importance to the Navy. He was picked over an early Trump campaign backer, former Rep. J. Randy Forbes of Virginia. Mr. Bilden received a Masters of Business Administration from Harvard in 1991. Has the National Park Service’s Twitter rebellion spread? First came the reposting of photos by the National Park Service that clearly showed that President Trump’s inauguration crowd was smaller than former President Barack Obama’s in 2009. That was followed by a contrite apology and lots of pretty pictures. We regret the mistaken RTs from our account yesterday and look forward to continuing to share the beauty and history of our parks with you pic.twitter.com/mctNNvlrmv  But the national parks took up the cause, with a Twitter storm on climate change from the Badlands that was quickly taken down. Yesterday, @BadlandsNPS was censored for tweeting about #ClimateChange . RT to keep #Science facts alive. #ThankYouTrump for nothing. pic.twitter.com/kEhGEDpdDl  And lots more: "Free speech, exercised both individually and through a free press, is a necessity in any country where the people are free." TR, 5/7/1918 2016 was the hottest year on record for the 3rd year in a row. Check out this @NASA & @NOAA report: https://t.co/rLJUC56xqi  pic.twitter.com/AKhFzYw6l6  Now, with word that Mr. Trump is moving to shut down the flow of refugees and halt immigration from Muslim-majority nations, is the Defense Department joining the fray? From refugee to #Marine . @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the doorstep of those who cast his family out. https://t.co/oSXWGrzsL7  pic.twitter.com/UVlWsaESic  Incidentally, the National Park Service now says those Twitter posts from the Badlands came from a disgruntled former employee who had commandeered the account without permission. A National Park Service official said Tuesday: “Several tweets posted on the Badlands National Park’s Twitter account today were posted by a former employee who was not currently authorized to use the park’s account. The park was not told to remove the tweets but chose to do so when they realized that their account had been compromised.” No official word on why so many other parks chimed in. The Greenpeace protest banner reading "RESIST" is seen just blocks from the White House. @Greenpeace  pic.twitter.com/WDKWC8qLsl  A Trump Twitter post about Chicago rankles Mr. Trump may have thought he was being constructive when he weighed in on Chicago’s terrible murder rate, but his offer (or threat) of federal support has not gone over well — either with Chicago Democrats or small-government Republicans. If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds! Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois was miffed. “When the President wants to work with states and localities on public policies to reduce gun-violence, he will find partners in cities like Chicago, but I think he’d rather spend his time on Twitter. The President wants publicity and to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters. I get that. But I doubt he has any serious intention to solve the national problem of guns killing young people.” But Republicans weren’t too keen on the notion of the federal government swooping into to fight city crime. How long before he adds "I will send in the Feds!" to his Twitter bio? https://t.co/3XqO7xC08m  The Republican media consultant Rick Wilson noted the obvious: If Obama had announced he was going to "send in the Feds" to some red state, Republicans would rightly be losing their collective minds. Perhaps Mr. Trump’s motivation isn’t much of a mystery. On Monday, Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago offered the president what he called “ unsolicited advice .” “You didn’t get elected to debate the crowd size at your inaugural,” Mr. Emanuel said. “Now, obviously, I wasn’t a supporter of then-candidate Trump. He got elected to make sure that people have a job, the economy continues to grow, people have security as it relates to their kids’ education, etc. And it wasn’t about your crowd size. It was about their lives and their jobs.” Advertisement “The speech missed an opportunity to speak to our better angels as a country,” he said of the president’s inaugural address. Or maybe Mr. Trump was just watching Bill O’Reilly on Fox News. Anyone guessing why Trump suddenly tweeting about Chicago "carnage" should watch O'Reilly segment from 8pm hour https://t.co/R8GVQX8KTx  Why everyone hates Washington Who says former (and supposedly bitter ) rivals can’t join forces in the spirit of Washington’s most unifying party — the “green” party? (That’s money, get it?) No emoluments clause apparently can stop the former Clinton and Trump campaign managers Robby Mook and Corey Lewandowski from hitting the road for paid gigs on the speaking circuit, which is precisely what the two will do together. Leading Authorities, a speakers’ bureau, said it is organizing the events as “ future-focused ” assessments of Donald Trump ’s White House. The two will also “debate the day’s hot issues,” including cyber attacks. Mr. Lewandowski just recently set up shop down the street from the White House in a consulting and lobbying firm he runs with another former Trump adviser, Barry Bennett. Yeh, was all one big dog-pony show from the start -- now everyone gets paid /Mook Lewandowski Team For Paid Speeches https://t.co/QuCNHpunS4  Update: The speaking agency has now deleted the material from its website. A representative for the firm told Buzzfeed that the listing was generated by them and not Mr. Mook and Mr. Lewandowski. Another update: Mr. Mook says no way, he never would have agreed to this buddy show. To set record straight: I never committed to speeches w Corey & didn’t agree to posts on “teaming up”. It was done w/o my knowledge/consent. Something is on Charles Grassley’s mind His press aides won’t say what exactly is bothering Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, but something clearly has gotten his goat. PresTrump pls issue order to all in ur executive branch ppl to answer all Senator requests for RECORDS so we can do oversight I hope somebody in White House will explain to Pres Trump how important the oversight responsibility is to this senator It might be that the new administration has been slow to answer requests that date back to the Obama administration. Pres Trump. I gave all ur cabinet appointees files of Obama unanswered oversight letters fr me. Will u get them answred. Read nxt Twitter Pres Trump Drain the swamp of all Grassley oversight letter in Obama murky bureaucracy Then again, his committee still hasn’t voted out the nomination of Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama. Advertisement Trump Organization chooses ethics monitors, but they aren’t exactly disinterested With the Trump Organization under a very public microscope, the company said Tuesday that it has appointed two monitors — Bobby Burchfield and George Sorial — to keep tabs on any ethical issues that may arise. The former has strong ties to Republican politics and the latter to President Trump. Mr. Burchfield, a Washington lawyer who has represented George H.W. Bush and the Republican National Committee, was appointed as independent ethics adviser to the Trump Organization, meaning he will advise on avoiding conflicts of interest, with the power to sign off on certain transactions. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy A longtime Trump Organization executive, Mr. Sorial will now be chief compliance officer, giving him a lead role in ensuring that the company complies with ethics rules and standards, while also implementing new policies. The two will assume their roles at a time when Mr. Trump has said he is trying to remove himself from the activities of the business that carries his name. Mr. Trump said during a news conference on Jan. 11 that he would place his business in a trust controlled by his two adult sons — but some ethics experts have chided the plan for not going far enough to avoid conflicts. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Bernd Lembcke, the managing director at the Palm Beach, Fla., club, said the change in the initiation fee had been planned last fall, before the election, and that $200,000 had been the fee before 2010, when it was cut in half because of the recession.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Mr. Lembcke, who has been at the club for 21 years, said that it also reflected the upswing in Mar-a-Lago’s popularity.

“We have had a sudden surge in requests,” he said, adding that new members must be recommended by someone who is already a member, as is the case at many private clubs.

Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit group that promotes government ethics, said the move showed that Mr. Trump and his family intended to profit from his status as president.

“At the minimum, this creates the appearance of cashing in the presidency and selling direct personal access to the president,” he said. “It is unacceptable. And it demeans the office of the presidency.”

The new initiation fee went into effect on Jan. 1, although the annual dues remained the same — $14,000 a year, he said.

The club has 482 members, with a cap of 500.

“It enhances it,” Mr. Lembcke said of Mr. Trump’s new job and its impact on the value of the membership. “His presidency does.”

“But we are very careful in vetting them,” he added.

News about the change in the initiation fee was reported by CNBC.

Who’s a fraudulent voter now?

By President Trump’s definition, his senior White House adviser, Steve Bannon, is apparently committing voter fraud.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So is his nominee to be the next Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin.

So, apparently, is one of his daughters, Tiffany Trump.

Mr. Trump was pretty broad with his definition of voter fraud when he took to Twitter Wednesday morning to request an investigation of the nefarious conduct of the 2016 electorate — with no evidence to support it.

There is, in fact, a difference between investigating actual voter fraud and cleaning up the voter rolls. If you move states, you aren’t usually required to tell the state you are leaving that you no longer want to be on the roster.

And so it goes that Mr. Bannon is registered in Sarasota County, Fla., and New York City. Mr. Mnuchin appears on the rolls of New York and California. And Tiffany Trump, should she choose, could potentially vote in Pennsylvania and New York. If she did, of course, that would be fraud.

First Lady of Israel congratulates Melania Trump

Now Melania Trump is fielding her own foreign leader calls. Sara Netanyahu, the wife of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, called Mrs. Trump on Wednesday to congratulate her on becoming the first lady, according to the prime minister’s office.

“The two of them look forward to seeing each other soon in Washington and to working together to strengthen the ties between Israel and the United States,” Mr. Netanyahu’s office said.

Their husbands spoke by telephone earlier in the week, and Mr. Trump invited Mr. Netanyahu to visit him in Washington next month.

Trump nominates a Navy secretary as Pentagon begins to fill

President Trump announced that he will nominate businessman and former military intelligence officer Philip Bilden as secretary of the Navy.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Bilden, who ran a private equity firm in Hong Kong until retiring three years ago, has expertise in both maritime affairs and Asia — two areas that are of central importance to the Navy. He was picked over an early Trump campaign backer, former Rep. J. Randy Forbes of Virginia.

Mr. Bilden received a Masters of Business Administration from Harvard in 1991.

Has the National Park Service’s Twitter rebellion spread?

First came the reposting of photos by the National Park Service that clearly showed that President Trump’s inauguration crowd was smaller than former President Barack Obama’s in 2009. That was followed by a contrite apology and lots of pretty pictures.

But the national parks took up the cause, with a Twitter storm on climate change from the Badlands that was quickly taken down.

And lots more:

Now, with word that Mr. Trump is moving to shut down the flow of refugees and halt immigration from Muslim-majority nations, is the Defense Department joining the fray?

Incidentally, the National Park Service now says those Twitter posts from the Badlands came from a disgruntled former employee who had commandeered the account without permission. A National Park Service official said Tuesday:

“Several tweets posted on the Badlands National Park’s Twitter account today were posted by a former employee who was not currently authorized to use the park’s account. The park was not told to remove the tweets but chose to do so when they realized that their account had been compromised.”

No official word on why so many other parks chimed in.

A Trump Twitter post about Chicago rankles

Mr. Trump may have thought he was being constructive when he weighed in on Chicago’s terrible murder rate, but his offer (or threat) of federal support has not gone over well — either with Chicago Democrats or small-government Republicans.

Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois was miffed.

“When the President wants to work with states and localities on public policies to reduce gun-violence, he will find partners in cities like Chicago, but I think he’d rather spend his time on Twitter. The President wants publicity and to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters. I get that. But I doubt he has any serious intention to solve the national problem of guns killing young people.”

But Republicans weren’t too keen on the notion of the federal government swooping into to fight city crime.

The Republican media consultant Rick Wilson noted the obvious:

Perhaps Mr. Trump’s motivation isn’t much of a mystery. On Monday, Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago offered the president what he called “unsolicited advice.”

“You didn’t get elected to debate the crowd size at your inaugural,” Mr. Emanuel said. “Now, obviously, I wasn’t a supporter of then-candidate Trump. He got elected to make sure that people have a job, the economy continues to grow, people have security as it relates to their kids’ education, etc. And it wasn’t about your crowd size. It was about their lives and their jobs.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The speech missed an opportunity to speak to our better angels as a country,” he said of the president’s inaugural address.

Or maybe Mr. Trump was just watching Bill O’Reilly on Fox News.

Why everyone hates Washington

Who says former (and supposedly bitter) rivals can’t join forces in the spirit of Washington’s most unifying party — the “green” party? (That’s money, get it?)

No emoluments clause apparently can stop the former Clinton and Trump campaign managers Robby Mook and Corey Lewandowski from hitting the road for paid gigs on the speaking circuit, which is precisely what the two will do together. Leading Authorities, a speakers’ bureau, said it is organizing the events as “future-focused” assessments of Donald Trump’s White House. The two will also “debate the day’s hot issues,” including cyber attacks.

Mr. Lewandowski just recently set up shop down the street from the White House in a consulting and lobbying firm he runs with another former Trump adviser, Barry Bennett.

Update: The speaking agency has now deleted the material from its website. A representative for the firm told Buzzfeed that the listing was generated by them and not Mr. Mook and Mr. Lewandowski.

Another update: Mr. Mook says no way, he never would have agreed to this buddy show.

Something is on Charles Grassley’s mind

His press aides won’t say what exactly is bothering Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, but something clearly has gotten his goat.

It might be that the new administration has been slow to answer requests that date back to the Obama administration.

Then again, his committee still hasn’t voted out the nomination of Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump Organization chooses ethics monitors, but they aren’t exactly disinterested

With the Trump Organization under a very public microscope, the company said Tuesday that it has appointed two monitors — Bobby Burchfield and George Sorial — to keep tabs on any ethical issues that may arise.

The former has strong ties to Republican politics and the latter to President Trump.

Mr. Burchfield, a Washington lawyer who has represented George H.W. Bush and the Republican National Committee, was appointed as independent ethics adviser to the Trump Organization, meaning he will advise on avoiding conflicts of interest, with the power to sign off on certain transactions.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A longtime Trump Organization executive, Mr. Sorial will now be chief compliance officer, giving him a lead role in ensuring that the company complies with ethics rules and standards, while also implementing new policies.

The two will assume their roles at a time when Mr. Trump has said he is trying to remove himself from the activities of the business that carries his name. Mr. Trump said during a news conference on Jan. 11 that he would place his business in a trust controlled by his two adult sons — but some ethics experts have chided the plan for not going far enough to avoid conflicts.