Women Who Kill is a grim portrait of female prisoners and a divided America, review
Women Who Kill is a grim portrait of female prisoners and a divided America, review 
any of us are saddened by what’s going on in America right now. The true crime documentary Women Who Kill (Channel 4) wasn’t exactly a tonic for such woes. On the contrary, it made them worse. This was a grim portrait of a divided nation where guns are easy to get, trial by media is commonplace and far too many people languish in prison. Sobering statistics piled up. One-third of the world’s female prison population is in America. More than 30,000 US women are serving lengthy sentences for murder. In this opening episode of two, we met three of them and heard their unhappy stories. mber Hilberling was 19 and heavily pregnant when she pushed her husband Josh out of the window of their 25th floor Tulsa apartment. “Bombshell tonight! Newlyweds tragedy!” trilled the rolling TV news. They even put a Twitter hashtag on-screen: #BrideKillsGroom?. Hilberling still believed that if the couple had met a few years later, “it would have been happy ever after”. In New Mexico, Native American woman Patricia Ignacio, sporting the dramatic eye make-up of a Disney villainess, confessed to brutally beating her cousin to death with a rock during a drunken row. “Stiletto Killer” Ana Trujillo stabbed her boyfriend 30 times with a blue high-heeled shoe – which was displayed at the front of the Texas courtroom during her murder trial. She was convicted due to the testimony of a CSI-style blood-spatter expert. Interviewed in her maximum security prison, Trujillo insisted: “I loved him and would never hurt him.” irector Matt Pelly probed a little behind the lurid headlines but not deep enough. The bombastic narration (“The ultimate act of violence!”, “What happened in that room would change the course of her life!”) verged on the sensationalist. Cameras lingered a little too long on bloody clothing and weapons. Just when things couldn’t get much more miserable, there came the sucker punch of a closing caption: “Since this programme was made, Amber Hilberling died in prison. The Medical Examiner ruled it was suicide.” Another senseless death in a country that sees far too many.

Many of us are saddened by what’s going on in America right now. The true crime documentary Women Who Kill (Channel 4) wasn’t exactly a tonic for such woes. On the contrary, it made them worse. This was a grim portrait of a divided nation where guns are easy to get, trial by media is commonplace and far too many people languish in prison.

Sobering statistics piled up. One-third of the world’s female prison population is in America. More than 30,000 US women are serving lengthy sentences for murder. In this opening episode of two, we met three of them and heard their unhappy stories.