Fifth Harmony's Ally Brooke Shares a Soulful Cover of 'Mad World': Watch
Fifth Harmony's Ally Brooke Shares a Soulful Cover of 'Mad World': Watch
Fifth Harmony's Ally Brooke Shares a Soulful Cover of 'Mad World': Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Harmonizers received yet another surprise on Wednesday as one more member shared a creative project outside the group. Ally Brooke Hernandez tweeted a short video featuring the singer and a guitarist dressed in all black doing an acoustic version of Tears for Fears ’ “Mad World,” though her rendition is more like Gary Jules ' eerie ballad from the soundtrack. Hernandez delivers a soulful, vocally impressive take on the song sitting next to a fireplace. #MadWorld  pic.twitter.com/yRISqUc0TX The cover comes soon after a few other solo endeavors by the Fifth Harmony foursome. Lauren Jauregui recently collaborated with Marian Hill on the single “Back to Me” and Normani Kordei continues to upload mash-up covers of popular hits.  Fifth Harmony performed for the first time as a quartet at the People’s Choice Awards last week, following Camila Cabello 's exit in December.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Harmonizers received yet another surprise on Wednesday as one more member shared a creative project outside the group.

Ally Brooke Hernandez tweeted a short video featuring the singer and a guitarist dressed in all black doing an acoustic version of Tears for Fears’ “Mad World,” though her rendition is more like Gary Jules' eerie ballad from the Donnie Darko soundtrack. Hernandez delivers a soulful, vocally impressive take on the song sitting next to a fireplace.

The cover comes soon after a few other solo endeavors by the Fifth Harmony foursome. Lauren Jauregui recently collaborated with Marian Hill on the single “Back to Me” and Normani Kordei continues to upload mash-up covers of popular hits.

Fifth Harmony performed for the first time as a quartet at the People’s Choice Awards last week, following Camila Cabello's exit in December.