Stop Pitting Them Against Each Other, All's Well Between 'Raees' SRK And 'Kaabil' Hrithik!
Stop Pitting Them Against Each Other, All's Well Between 'Raees' SRK And 'Kaabil' Hrithik!
Stop Pitting Them Against Each Other, All's Well Between 'Raees' SRK And 'Kaabil' Hrithik! Hrithik Roshan and Shah Rukh Khan played the role of brothers in Karan Johar's family saga . The film went on to become a very big hit. In our film fraternity, equation keeps on changing every single day. People can be besties and might be seen attending a page 3 party together but next morning, they could turn into worst of enemies. One such case was of Hrithik Roshan and Shah Rukh Khan. Ever since the release dates of the films were revealed, people have been talking about their clash. Many rumors claimed that Rakesh Roshan paid many visits to SRK's Mannat in order to postpone the release date of the film but that didn't happen. And now that both the films have released, it looks like all's well between the two megastars. There is no rivalry at all and things are pretty much settled and cordial between the two actors. Stop pitting them against each other because the conversation they had on Twitter is a good enough proof that all's well. Dear @iamsrk today as a mentor Im sure u will inspire me yet again with #Raaes and as a student I hope you are proud of me with #Kaabil . And SRK reverted with equal niceness. He replied, @iHrithik wish could have avoided overlap of releases. That said…my love to u & @yamigautam dad & @_SanjayGupta . Kaabil wil b awesome

Hrithik Roshan and Shah Rukh Khan played the role of brothers in Karan Johar's family saga Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham. The film went on to become a very big hit.

In our film fraternity, equation keeps on changing every single day. People can be besties and might be seen attending a page 3 party together but next morning, they could turn into worst of enemies. One such case was of Kaabil Hrithik Roshan and Raees Shah Rukh Khan.

Ever since the release dates of the films were revealed, people have been talking about their clash. Many rumors claimed that Rakesh Roshan paid many visits to SRK's Mannat in order to postpone the release date of the film but that didn't happen.

Twitter

And now that both the films have released, it looks like all's well between the two megastars. There is no rivalry at all and things are pretty much settled and cordial between the two actors. Stop pitting them against each other because the conversation they had on Twitter is a good enough proof that all's well.

Dear @iamsrk today as a mentor Im sure u will inspire me yet again with #Raaes and as a student I hope you are proud of me with #Kaabil. — Hrithik Roshan (@iHrithik) January 25, 2017

And SRK reverted with equal niceness. He replied,

@iHrithik wish could have avoided overlap of releases. That said…my love to u & @yamigautam dad & @_SanjayGupta. Kaabil wil b awesome — Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) January 25, 2017