Brussels and Paris attack plans discovered on laptop
Discarded laptop reveals details of Brussels and Paris attack plans


A laptop discarded by the terror network behind the Brussels and Paris attacks revealed how they had links with top ISIS commanders in Syria - and were planning another attack.

The computer was found two hours after a team of ISIS suicide bombers murdered 32 people at Brussels Airport and on the city's Metro system on March 22 last year.

Files painstakingly retrieved from the laptop, belonging to one of the airport suicide bombers, Najim Laachraoui, show how the unit had been in contact with bomb-making experts in Syria.

Scroll down for video

A discarded computer was found two hours after a team of ISIS suicide bombers murdered 32 people at Brussels Airport (pictured) and on the city's Metro system on March 22 last year

It comes as police sources revealed the airport attackers may have deliberately targeted Jewish people and passengers travelling to America as they went on the rampage.

Investigators examining the laptop also found chilling instructions, distributed among fanatics before they slaughtered 130 people in a wave of shootings and bombings in Paris attack on November 13, 2015.

According to CNN, they included subfiles relating to the Paris atrocity called Groupe Omar, Groupe Francais, Groupe iraquiens, Groupe métro and Groupe Schiphol.

There were also files called 'targets' and another using the Arabic word for explosives.

Another subfile made reference to 'Défense'.

Files were painstakingly retrieved from the laptop, belonging to one of the airport suicide bombers, Najim Laachraoui (pictured)

Belgian investigators think this referred to La Défense shopping quarter in Paris and that November 13 mastermind Abdelhamid Abaaoud was planning to strike the target before he was killed by French police during a dramatic siege.

It comes as police sources revealed that the ISIS suicide bombers who attacked Brussels airport last year targeted passengers travelling to the United States and also Jewish people.

The Belgian-led investigation believes a check-in counter for an American carrier was one of the targets in the March 22, 2016 attacks, the sources said on condition of anonymity.

They also suspect that travellers to Israel may have been in the crosshairs, and that airport security camera footage shows one bomber apparently pursuing Hasidic Jews seconds before one of the blasts.

ISIS bombers Laachraoui and Ibrahim El Bakraoui killed 16 people at Zaventem airport. Around an hour later Bakraoui's brother Khalid attacked a metro station near EU headquarters, killing another 16.

One source close to the investigation told AFP, which contacted investigators in several countries, that one of the airport bombers 'attacked the Delta Airlines check-in'.

'We know they wanted to target Americans,' said the source, who asked not to be named. 'It's clear they had quite specific targets.'

Asked if these targets included the check-in counter for a flight to Israel, he replied: 'We know they were obsessed with the Israelis too.'

Investigators examining the laptop also found chilling instructions, distributed among fanatics before they slaughtered 130 people in a wave of shootings and bombings in Paris attack on November 13, 2015

Belgian investigators believe November 13 mastermind Abdelhamid Abaaoud was planning to strike a Paris shopping quarter when he was killed by French police during a dramatic siege

The possibility that they targeted Russian travellers was an 'option' that had to be clarified, he said.

There were casualties from at least 40 nationalities in the Brussels attacks, but investigators and sources believe the Zaventem bombers had specific targets.

'Even early on (in the investigation) there were indications that they targeted US, Russian and Israeli check-in counters,' a US law enforcement source told AFP on condition of anonymity.

'That understanding has held up with later investigations, including with Abrini's alleged confession,' the source said.

TERROR RAIDS ACROSS BRUSSELS Belgian police have raided eight homes in the Brussels region as part of a counter-terrorism operation that is ongoing, prosecutors said. The raids are not related to either the ISIS attacks in Paris in November 2015 or the bombings in Brussels in March last year, a spokesman for the federal prosecutor's office told AFP. 'There were eight house searches in the Brussels region,' the spokesman said, adding the operation was ongoing and there would be a statement around noon. Belgian police have raided eight homes in the Brussels region as part of a counter-terrorism operation that is ongoing, prosecutors said Belgium has been on high alert since the Paris attacks that left 130 people dead and the Brussels attacks that killed 32 people. Investigators say the same Brussels-based cell carried out both attacks that were claimed by ISIS. The website of the newspaper La Derniere Heure first reported the raids, saying special forces backed up counter-terror police who raided homes in Molenbeek, Schaerbeek, Anderlecht and Laeken. It said several people were detained for questioning on suspicion that they had either travelled to Syria or returned from the war zone. Belgium is the EU country with the highest per capita number of fighters who have gone to wage jihad in Syria and Iraq, a figure estimated at 465.

Mohamed Abrini is the so-called 'man in the hat' who fled the airport without detonating his suitcase bomb after his accomplices set off theirs. He was captured a month later.

Four Americans were killed at the airport and several injured, while two Israelis aged 23 and 28 were treated in Jerusalem after the attacks.

Israeli media identified the pair as members of the Belz Hassid ultra-Orthodox religious sect, who had been scheduled to fly from Brussels airport to Ben Gurion.

Sources close to the investigation added that camera footage never released to the public showed that Laachraoui had been standing among some 60 high school students before deciding to pursue two Orthodox Jews.

'The attacker seemed to rush towards two Orthodox Jews,' one of the sources said. 'He really, clearly wanted to kill a Jew.'

ISIS bombers Laachraoui and Ibrahim El Bakraoui killed 16 people at Zaventem airport. Around an hour later Bakraoui's brother Khalid attacked a metro station (pictured) near EU headquarters, killing another 16

A US government source said separately that Lachraoui was targeting a Hasidic Jew. Hasidic men are easily recognisable because they wear dark suits over white shirts, have long beards, hats and curly sidelocks.

Investigators 'are very confident they (bombers) were targeting US, Russia and Israel,' the US government source said.

Israeli security measures have dramatically increased since the attacks, an airport source added.

A Belgian press report said investigators had found an electronic message from Khalid El Bakraoui saying flights departed every Tuesday from Brussels to the United States, Russia and Israel, but investigators would not confirm that.

Mohamed Abrini (pictured) is the so-called 'man in the hat' who fled Brussels airport without detonating his suitcase bomb

However the attack did occur around 8am on a Tuesday, shortly before scheduled flights to all three countries by United, American, Delta, El Al, Brussels Airlines and Russia's Aeroflot, according to airport and other sources.

An airport source who asked not to be named said the bomb that did not explode was left near the United and El Al counters, which were facing each other.

Abrini appeared in unreleased airport CCTV footage as lagging behind the other bombers before hiding behind a pillar covering his ears, two independent sources said.

'Every indication was that Abrini changed his mind,' the US law enforcement source said.

Investigators have said the bombers were part of the same Brussels-based cell that orchestrated the November 2015 Paris attacks.

They believe they were spurred into action in Brussels by the March 18 arrest of key Paris attacks suspect Salah Abdeslam.

'Completely cornered and hunted, they clearly improvised,' a source close to the Belgian investigation said, adding that one of the bombers left a message on an abandoned computer apologising for not having launched a new attack on France.

Belgium had also suffered an attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels in May 2014 which left four people dead. The alleged attacker, Mehdi Nemmouche, has been linked to Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the ringleader of the Paris attacks.

Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon said 'Israel does not comment publicly on security-related issues' when asked about the March 2016 attacks. The FBI, which is taking part in the investigation, did not respond to a request for comment.

Russia's investigation committee, which probes major crimes in Russia, said it is 'not investigating the Brussels attacks.'