Infographic reveals the riskiest laws for travellers
Tourists beware! Infographic reveals the riskiest laws for travellers


Most travellers know that homosexuality is illegal across most of the Middle East.

But did you know that dancing or even having Christmas decorations is banned in Saudi Arabia?

As this new infographic reveals, it's surprisingly easy to overstep the line in some parts of the world - and to make a holiday memorable for all the wrong reasons.

There are plenty of laws to break in Uganda, including the wearing of miniskirts (stock image)

As this new infographic reveals, it's surprisingly easy to overstep the line in some parts of the world

Other prohibited behaviours in Saudi Arabia include the consumption of alcohol, taking photos of women and dancing or playing music in public. What will be public, however, is your potential flogging as punishment for breaking the law.

Additionally, women entering a public domain must be accompanied by a man, and must seek permission from him before leaving.

In the UAE, alcohol is permitted in certain situations but public drunkenness will not to be tolerated, nor will any sort of obscene hand gestures.

The infographic, put together by law firm Cooney and Conway, also reveals that it's illegal to photograph the military, police and any railways or airports in Cuba, or for men or women to cross-dress.

Saudi Arabia bans the consumption of alcohol, taking photos of women, and dancing in public (stock image)

Women entering a public domain must be accompanied by a man, and must seek permission from him before leaving

In Thailand, its illegal to criticize the monarchy - carrying a jail sentence of up to 15 years - and to drive a car shirtless.

Over in Singapore, one of the most rules-heavy countries in the world, it's illegal to litter or smoke in public places - and homosexuality is defined by law as an 'outrage on decency'.

Singapore does, however, boast the cleanest streets and among the lowest crime rates worldwide.

In Cuba it's illegal to photograph the military, police and any railways or airports (stock image)

It is also against the law in Cuba for men to dress in clothes designed for women, and vice versa

In Malaysia, it's illegal to collect local flora and fauna without permission from the government (stock image)

Disseminating non-Islamic religious material in Malaysia could land you an arrest too

In the UAE, alcohol is permitted in certain situations but public drunkenness will not to be tolerated, nor will any sort of obscene hand gestures

In Singapore, one of the most rules-heavy countries in the world, it's illegal to litter or smoke in public places - and homosexuality is defined by law as an 'outrage on decency'

In Thailand, it's illegal to criticize the monarchy - carrying a jail sentence of up to 15 years - and to drive a car shirtless

In Algeria, it's illegal to encourage conversion to a different faith, and to engage in same-sex sexual relations

Shouting offensive words in public is banned in Mexico, as is any sort of 'nude artistic display'

Taking any literature that glorifies Nazis in or out of Germany is illegal, as is cycling under the influence of alcohol