What Do I Owe Again? 6 Tips For College Seniors Facing Down Student Loan Debt
What Do I Owe Again? 6 Tips For College Seniors Facing Down Student Loan Debt
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Reis       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock The summer before my senior year of college, I was scrolling through my email when one subject line caught my eye: “Finish Line Grant.” I clicked on it. “Dear Alex,” it read. “We are excited to let you know that you have been awarded a Finish Line Grant – a scholarship given to you by NYU in the amount of approximately 10% of the total subsidized federal loans you have borrowed.”  If you do have some savings, consider paying your interest while you’re still in school or during the grace period. Interest on unsubsidized loans will accrue from the moment the loan is disbursed to the school. If you don’t pay it while still in school, the interest will be added to your principal balance when it's time to repay your loan.  Federal loan consolidation allows you to combine all your federal loans into a single loan with a new interest rate (derived by weighting the averages of your old loans’ rates.) Your monthly payments will be lower, which likely means the time period in which you’ll be paying them back will be longer, and you’ll end up paying more interest. You can do the same thing with your private loans. The only difference is how the new interest rate is generated. A private lender will consider your financial history to give you a (hopefully) lower rate. Facing your post-grad responsibilities can be overwhelming, but I took these steps to figure out how to plan for my future with student loans, and you can too. After all, the more you know, the more your student loan interest grow.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The summer before my senior year of college, I was scrolling through my email when one subject line caught my eye: “Finish Line Grant.” I clicked on it. “Dear Alex,” it read. “We are excited to let you know that you have been awarded a Finish Line Grant – a scholarship given to you by NYU in the amount of approximately 10% of the total subsidized federal loans you have borrowed.”

Three thoughts went quickly through my head. First: “Ohhh right, I have student loans." The second: “10% off my loans, how awesome!” And the third: “Wait. 10% of how much exactly?”

I was worried about not knowing how much I owed, but according to an analysis by the GWUSB, 54% of student loan borrowers don’t try to figure out how much their future loan payments will total before taking on those loans. This same study found that 48% of borrowers weren’t confident in their ability to pay off the debt they’ve accrued.

If you’re anything like me and the 54%, you’ve spent the last four years focusing on getting good grades, making friends, participating in extracurriculars and, of course, interning. You’ve forgotten that conversation you had with your parents back in high school, the one about that large tuition bill. After all, your dream school would definitely be worth the debt you’d face four years down the line.

But now, a year – and maybe less, if you graduated in December – separates you from your future payments. Here’s what you need to know to make the prospect of debt repayment a little less scary:

1. Know What You Owe

This one seems pretty obvious, but you need to find out exactly how much you’ve borrowed, and from whom. Most public and private loans have a grace period of six months after you graduate before you have to begin repaying them, but you should always make sure that your specific loans carry this grace period. If you have federal loans, the first thing to do is find your Federal Student Loan ID, and login to the National Student Loan Database. There, you can see your federal loans. (For more loan repayment strategies, click here) However, keep in mind that this will not be exhaustive if your parents took out parent PLUS loans to help you pay for college. Those will be located on the parent’s FSA account and are why tip number 2 is especially important.

If you have private loans, you should check your credit report. Andy Josuweit, cofounder & CEO of Student Loan Hero, a website that helps manage and keep track of student loans, advises always having your official contact information on your credit report up-to-date. “I didn’t do this when I had moved to Asia for a while, and my servicer did not know how to contact me,” says Josuweit. Not sure how to do that? Head to annualcreditreport.com to pull a report for free.

2. Have An Awkward Money Conversation With Your Parents

Have an honest conversation ahead of graduation so you aren’t blindsided when the grace period expires. For many students, their parents have been the ones taking care of the bills each semester and filling out important forms like the FAFSA. Some parents take out loans in their own names to fund their kids’ tuition. Who bears the responsibility to repay those parent PLUS loans? What are their expectations for repayment? Will you shoulder the entire debt? Will they? Go dutch? It’s important to find a plan that works for everyone.

3. Start Saving Now, Not Later

Starting to save senior year may seem like a low priority, but taking responsibility with your expenses will put you on the right track for budgeting and paying your loans after college. Try an app like Mint or BillGuard that helps you track your savings and learn to budget—getting you in the right mindset for post-grad life. “The sooner you may start making payments the better. That way you save money on interest,” says Josuweit.

If you do have some savings, consider paying your interest while you’re still in school or during the grace period. Interest on unsubsidized loans will accrue from the moment the loan is disbursed to the school. If you don’t pay it while still in school, the interest will be added to your principal balance when it's time to repay your loan.

And once you actually start paying your loans, Erin Lowry, millennial personal finance expert and author of the book, “Broke Millennial: Stop Scraping By and Get Your Financial Life Together” recommends you pay slightly over minimum monthly payment, “Even 10 extra dollars a month can save a year off your payment plan,” she says.

4. Think “Loan” Before “Lease”

Getting your first job offer is exciting, no matter how high or low the number on the offer letter. But a new job might mean a new location. Before you sign an offer letter or a lease, consider how you’re going to pay for rent with the added monthly student loan payments. Student Loan Hero released a study creating a student loan affordability index, looking at cost of living, and average salaries by state. Check out the median rent for the area you’re moving into, and run a simulation budget to ensure your proposed salary can cover both your rent and your student loan payments on top of costs of living like groceries.

You should also look into if income-driven repayment plans, plans that base your monthly payment off of your salary, are right for you. Keep in mind: this option is only available for federal loans, not private.

If you plan to be a public servant and you have Federal Loans, you could be eligible for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which forgives the remaining balance on your Direct Loans after you have made 120 qualifying monthly payments under a qualifying repayment plan while working full-time for a qualifying employer. After your 120th payment, you will need to submit the PSLF application to receive loan forgiveness.

5. Automate Your Payments

Automating your monthly student loan payments is the easiest way to never forget a payment, and you can do so through your student loan servicer. You do, however, have to be careful about overdraft—there needs to be enough money in your account to make your monthly payments. ‘Broke Millennial’ has one strategy for this: “I have a separate checking account for bills (like electric, student loans, rent, etc.) and then a separate checking account for spending,” she says. “At the beginning of every month, you put a certain amount in each account—so you’re never commingling them or spending the money you set aside for bills.”

6.Know Your Post-Grad Loan Options: Consolidation Or Refinancing

Just because you’re consistently paying your loans (especially if you decide to automate your payments) doesn’t mean you should just forget about them. As time goes on and your financial situation changes, you could consider either consolidating or refinancing your loans.

Federal loan consolidation allows you to combine all your federal loans into a single loan with a new interest rate (derived by weighting the averages of your old loans’ rates.) Your monthly payments will be lower, which likely means the time period in which you’ll be paying them back will be longer, and you’ll end up paying more interest.

You can do the same thing with your private loans. The only difference is how the new interest rate is generated. A private lender will consider your financial history to give you a (hopefully) lower rate.

Note that student loan refinancing is only available from private lenders (although certain private lenders will refinance both private and federal loans) and is mostly used when you have a better credit profile than when you first began paying back your loans. But borrower beware: if you combine your federal and private student loans, you may be giving up access to perks including the Public Service Loan Forgiveness and those helpful income-driven repayment plans.

Facing your post-grad responsibilities can be overwhelming, but I took these steps to figure out how to plan for my future with student loans, and you can too. After all, the more you know, the more your student loan interest won’t grow.