OracleVoice: Why Startups Need Oracle -- and Vice Versa
OracleVoice: Why Startups Need Oracle -- and Vice Versa
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Oracle       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. . The Oracle Startup Cloud Accelerator program is intended to provide support for early-stage technology-based and technology-enabled companies. Extending over six months, it offers several tangible benefits: dedicated workspace featuring state-of-the-art technology; mentoring and advice from Oracle experts and third parties in areas such as finance, HR, and product management; and access to Oracle’s wide portfolio of public cloud services (participants that show promise can apply for an extension of two-and-a-half years). Also, participants will be introduced to Oracle customers and partners as well as members of the local financial community. Reggie Bradford, center, appeared in Tel Aviv, Israel, to help kick off the Oracle Startup Cloud Accelerator program there with Ilan Spiegelman, left, vice president of marketing for Oracle Israel, and Uzi Navon, right, senior vice president and Oracle Israel country leader. The program in India came together quickly. Within a month and a few weeks, it went from nothing to having physical infrastructure, a curriculum, advisers, and a website on Oracle.com, all in time for its official launch in April. In June the first five participants , winnowed from literally hundreds of applicants, were accepted into the program. They represented an interesting mix of products, approaches, and aims. Oracle hopes to replicate the program at several spots around the world in the near future. A key differentiator of Oracle’s accelerator program is that it’s led by the product development group, instead of marketing or sales. We want to give participants access to senior people in Oracle’s R&D organization, here and globally, so that we can provide them actionable insight into our industry. Additionally, if their products complement one of ours, perhaps we might take them to market with us. Another differentiator is that Oracle isn’t investing or taking an equity state in any of these startups. Instead, Oracle offers facilities, support, expertise, and advice, as well as access to our world-class cloud services, which represent a big step up in enterprise functionality and capability for these companies. Oracle benefits from the program in the “democratization” of its technology and the “contemporizing” of its brand. When young businesspeople consider enterprise technology, they most likely think of AWS or MongoDB or some other open source alternative. They don’t immediately consider Oracle technology because they don’t think it’s within their reach. But the cloud rewrites that equation, making sophisticated enterprise technology more affordable and accessible. Exposing an ambitious group of young tech entrepreneurs to the business enablement and acceleration represented in Oracle’s complete suite of cloud services—software as a service, platform as a service, infrastructure as a service, and data as a service—will demonstrate its efficacy. And it promises great word of mouth in social media. Another benefit to Oracle is in future-proofing our cloud services. We decided early on to look for companies that complement our products, especially our software-as-a-service products. In Bangalore, for instance, a participant company called TYDY is developing an app that helps optimize processes between our employee recruiting service, Taleo, and our back-end HR system. Another participant company, Riot Solutions, is building a device that monitors breathing patterns during sleep, and it’s working with the person who heads our Internet of Things (IoT) development in India to find ways to use our technology with its device. Oracle commissioned a research project with the MIT Sloan School of Management last year to examine the startup landscape, with an eye to what Oracle might do to be successful in that environment. The study laid out the most important factors that make a technology accelerator valuable to its participants. Oracle has taken them all to heart. Oracle has been in India for 21 years and its sales and support people understand the local market. Also, in the last several years Oracle has sought to increase its influence in the local business community, including among universities, government agencies, and financiers. Oracle’s multiplatform technology is available anywhere in the world. Oracle makes available to program participants mentors that are knowledgeable in the appropriate areas and are willing to spend time and share their expertise. Oracle experts share best practices learned from prior experiences—both bad and good. Oracle encourages, promotes, and benefits from innovation. We decided we don’t want “slideware” companies in our program, but instead those that have already worked out a proof of concept. Their success is our success. Entrepreneurism is at an all-time high. But today’s startup boom is built on foundations more solid than those responsible for the tech bubble of the late 1990s. Thanks to public cloud services startups can be put together for thousands of dollars rather than millions. And corporate decision-makers are more willing to try innovative and cost-effective alternatives from emerging startups than they have been in the past. That’s why it’s important for Oracle to play a significant role in that dynamic startup ecosystem: to stay current as the business technology environment expands into areas such as artificial intelligence and IoT, and especially for us not to miss the Facebooks of tomorrow as they emerge. With 420,000 enterprise customers worldwide, Oracle is well positioned to deliver a program like this at a global scale. That’s why, from day one, we’ve been putting together a playbook, a living document, that we’ll use to guide our new accelerator centers as we expand the program across the globe. Oracle was a struggling startup 40 years ago. Now we can help shape that experience for a new wave of technology innovators.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Reggie Bradford and Sanket Atal

Before I came to Oracle I was a “three-peat” entrepreneur, having helped launch three successful technology startups. So I set great store in the role startups play in the marketplace. Oracle is committed to fostering entrepreneurship by supporting the global startup ecosystem, our most recent effort being the Oracle Startup Cloud Accelerator program, which I’m very happy to be a part of.

My colleague Sanket Atal, group vice president of product development, helped conceive the program and launch its first iteration in Bangalore, India, earlier this year. Now Oracle is expanding the program to seven additional locations: two more cities in India (Mumbai and Delhi); Bristol, England; Paris; São Paolo, Brazil; Singapore; and Tel Aviv, Israel. Each new program will work with five startup companies initially. Sanket and I decided to collaborate on a blog post that lays out the program’s benefits—to startups and to Oracle.

The Oracle Startup Cloud Accelerator program is intended to provide support for early-stage technology-based and technology-enabled companies. Extending over six months, it offers several tangible benefits: dedicated workspace featuring state-of-the-art technology; mentoring and advice from Oracle experts and third parties in areas such as finance, HR, and product management; and access to Oracle’s wide portfolio of public cloud services (participants that show promise can apply for an extension of two-and-a-half years). Also, participants will be introduced to Oracle customers and partners as well as members of the local financial community.

The program in India came together quickly. Within a month and a few weeks, it went from nothing to having physical infrastructure, a curriculum, advisers, and a website on Oracle.com, all in time for its official launch in April. In June the first five participants, winnowed from literally hundreds of applicants, were accepted into the program. They represented an interesting mix of products, approaches, and aims. Oracle hopes to replicate the program at several spots around the world in the near future.

Differences and Benefits

A key differentiator of Oracle’s accelerator program is that it’s led by the product development group, instead of marketing or sales. We want to give participants access to senior people in Oracle’s R&D organization, here and globally, so that we can provide them actionable insight into our industry. Additionally, if their products complement one of ours, perhaps we might take them to market with us.

Another differentiator is that Oracle isn’t investing or taking an equity state in any of these startups. Instead, Oracle offers facilities, support, expertise, and advice, as well as access to our world-class cloud services, which represent a big step up in enterprise functionality and capability for these companies.

Oracle benefits from the program in the “democratization” of its technology and the “contemporizing” of its brand. When young businesspeople consider enterprise technology, they most likely think of AWS or MongoDB or some other open source alternative. They don’t immediately consider Oracle technology because they don’t think it’s within their reach.

But the cloud rewrites that equation, making sophisticated enterprise technology more affordable and accessible. Exposing an ambitious group of young tech entrepreneurs to the business enablement and acceleration represented in Oracle’s complete suite of cloud services—software as a service, platform as a service, infrastructure as a service, and data as a service—will demonstrate its efficacy. And it promises great word of mouth in social media.

Another benefit to Oracle is in future-proofing our cloud services. We decided early on to look for companies that complement our products, especially our software-as-a-service products. In Bangalore, for instance, a participant company called TYDY is developing an app that helps optimize processes between our employee recruiting service, Taleo, and our back-end HR system. Another participant company, Riot Solutions, is building a device that monitors breathing patterns during sleep, and it’s working with the person who heads our Internet of Things (IoT) development in India to find ways to use our technology with its device.

Most Important Factors

Oracle commissioned a research project with the MIT Sloan School of Management last year to examine the startup landscape, with an eye to what Oracle might do to be successful in that environment.

The study laid out the most important factors that make a technology accelerator valuable to its participants. Oracle has taken them all to heart.

1. Local. Oracle has been in India for 21 years and its sales and support people understand the local market. Also, in the last several years Oracle has sought to increase its influence in the local business community, including among universities, government agencies, and financiers.

2. Global. Oracle’s multiplatform technology is available anywhere in the world.

3. Available. Oracle makes available to program participants mentors that are knowledgeable in the appropriate areas and are willing to spend time and share their expertise.

4. Transparent. Oracle experts share best practices learned from prior experiences—both bad and good.

5. Involved. Oracle encourages, promotes, and benefits from innovation. We decided we don’t want “slideware” companies in our program, but instead those that have already worked out a proof of concept. Their success is our success.

Facebooks of Tomorrow

Entrepreneurism is at an all-time high. But today’s startup boom is built on foundations more solid than those responsible for the tech bubble of the late 1990s. Thanks to public cloud services startups can be put together for thousands of dollars rather than millions. And corporate decision-makers are more willing to try innovative and cost-effective alternatives from emerging startups than they have been in the past.

That’s why it’s important for Oracle to play a significant role in that dynamic startup ecosystem: to stay current as the business technology environment expands into areas such as artificial intelligence and IoT, and especially for us not to miss the Facebooks of tomorrow as they emerge.

With 420,000 enterprise customers worldwide, Oracle is well positioned to deliver a program like this at a global scale. That’s why, from day one, we’ve been putting together a playbook, a living document, that we’ll use to guide our new accelerator centers as we expand the program across the globe.

Oracle was a struggling startup 40 years ago. Now we can help shape that experience for a new wave of technology innovators.