'History is watching': JK Rowling criticises Theresa May's 'plans to praise' Donald Trump
'History is watching': JK Rowling criticises Theresa May's 'plans to praise' Donald Trump
ccording to reports, Theresa May is set to praise Donald Trump and set out a plan for a deepened special relationship between the US and the UK during her visit to him today. JK Rowling appears unimpressed by this, tweeting 'History's watching, Theresa'. This comes after news Theresa May will say that Britain and America can “rediscover our confidence” and “lead together again” in the wake of Brexit and the election of Donald Trump. History's watching, Theresa. https://t.co/WpOzwdfI67 he Prime Minister will address the annual congressional Republican Retreat in Philadelphia and say that the UK and USA will “renew the special relationship” now that President Trump is in the White House. She will give him gifts of kinship and say that developing a stronger special relationship is “important not only to Britain and America but to the world”. he author has been critical of Donald Trump throughout the campaign and his presidency, and seems unhappy with Theresa May's leadership. Many, including MPs from across the political spectrum including in her own party, have asked whether Theresa May will be critical of Donald Trump, especially on women's issues, immigration and torture. Yes, Trump's about to meet an affluent white woman begging him for a trade deal. He'll be reading 'Feminism is For Everybody' by teatime. https://t.co/b5zVPkptOc he has dodged the questions on the whole except to say the biggest statement on role of women is "I will be there". JK Rowling replied to this sarcastically, saying: "Yes, Trump's about to meet an affluent white woman begging him for a trade deal. He'll be reading 'Feminism is For Everybody' by teatime." Donald Trump has steamed ahead with the controversial policies  he outlined in his election campaign. Mr Trump yesterday said the planning for a wall between Mexico and America will begin “immediately”. He said that construction will begin soon and that Mexico "absolutely, 100 per cent" will reimburse the US for the 2,000-mile structure.

She has dodged the questions on the whole except to say the biggest statement on role of women is "I will be there".

JK Rowling replied to this sarcastically, saying: "Yes, Trump's about to meet an affluent white woman begging him for a trade deal. He'll be reading 'Feminism is For Everybody' by teatime."

Donald Trump has steamed ahead with the controversial policies he outlined in his election campaign.

Mr Trump yesterday said the planning for a wall between Mexico and America will begin “immediately”.

He said that construction will begin soon and that Mexico "absolutely, 100 per cent" will reimburse the US for the 2,000-mile structure.