Instant Awesome: 101-year-old veteran sings national anthem at women's military appreciation night
Instant Awesome: 101-year-old veteran sings national anthem at women's military appreciation night
Instant Awesome: 101-year-old veteran sings national anthem at women's military appreciation night Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead 2 Related Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Gonzaga, Villanova top poll after wild week Patriots' Brady: RB White deserves MVP truck Louisville's Mathiang, Adel out for missing curfew Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Falcons' Ryan on loss: 'There are no words' Ex-Flyer: Putin 'wants to play' us in alumni game Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win How Martellus Bennett redefined the Patriot Way Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 1 Related Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Is it finally John Wall's time? NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Brady's jersey missing after Super Bowl LI Sports world reacts to Patriots' remarkable Super Bowl LI comeback College hoops Power Rankings: When the mighty fall Hill, Smith bringing their brand to SportsCenter Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related Best futures bets for Super Bowl LII With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Four-Ball: Taking stock of Tiger's comeback Power Rankings: Washington looks unbeatable Contenders or pretenders? The state of MLB's mid-tier teams Can Rick Porcello match his 22-win season in 2017? Joost a hero twice over in one extraordinary life 101-year-old veteran John Moon performs the national anthem at the women's basketball military appreciation night at Western Illinois. Moon is the oldest known living Marine to storm the beaches at Iwo Jima. (2:06) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The singing of the national anthem helps set the tone at a sporting event -- even the casual fan pays close attention to the performer. But it's not often that we get to see a 101-year-old excite the crowd before a game. And in this case, it wasn't just any 101-year-old. John Moon, a resident of Macomb, Illinois, is a World War II veteran and the oldest known survivor of Iwo Jima. He got things going by singing the national anthem at his alma mater, Western Illinois, before it took on IUPUI at women's basketball military appreciation night. Not only did Moon prove that he's still able and healthy, but he also demonstrated some strong vocal chords by holding a few notes during the course of the song. That led to a standing ovation from the fans once he concluded. Well done, Mr. Moon. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

101-year-old veteran John Moon performs the national anthem at the women's basketball military appreciation night at Western Illinois. Moon is the oldest known living Marine to storm the beaches at Iwo Jima. (2:06)

The singing of the national anthem helps set the tone at a sporting event -- even the casual fan pays close attention to the performer. But it's not often that we get to see a 101-year-old excite the crowd before a game.

And in this case, it wasn't just any 101-year-old.

John Moon, a resident of Macomb, Illinois, is a World War II veteran and the oldest known survivor of Iwo Jima.

He got things going by singing the national anthem at his alma mater, Western Illinois, before it took on IUPUI at women's basketball military appreciation night.

Not only did Moon prove that he's still able and healthy, but he also demonstrated some strong vocal chords by holding a few notes during the course of the song. That led to a standing ovation from the fans once he concluded.

Well done, Mr. Moon.