Why This Tech CEO Is Promising To Pay Customer Refunds From His Own Paycheck
Why This Tech CEO Is Promising To Pay Customer Refunds From His Own Paycheck
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Konrad       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Basecamp CEO Jason Fried will reimburse his company for all refunds requested by new employees in 2017. (Credit: Basecamp) No business leader likes it when a customer asks for a refund. At tech company Basecamp, CEO Jason Fried wants to do something about it. "I want to feel what it's like directly when someone says, I want my money back," says Fried. "If someone pays for a few months and decides they don't like our product and we did something wrong, that's on me ultimately. So I'll pay them back." Basecamp and Fried are committing that any customers who sign up in 2017 and ask for a refund will get money back from Fried's own salary as chief executive. For privacy and logistical reasons, they won't get a personal check from the company cofounder himself, but at the end of the year, Fried will write a check back to his company for the full amount of refunds over the time period. "I know what our refund rate is, and you could buy a car with the number," says Fried. "It's a really small number relative to our customers, but in actual dollar terms it's a very real number." The inspiration for Fried's promise came in late 2016 when he came across a photo of President Harry S. Truman at his desk in the Oval Office with a sign on his desk that said, "The buck stops here." What's true for a president, Fried thought, is also true for the management of a company—especially one led by a cofounder like Basecamp. When his employees heard his plan, says Fried, they thought it was a bit crazy, but got behind it. None of them know exactly what will happen, least of all Fried, who calls the commitment an "experiment."  Since Fried personally blogged about the decision on January 3, no refund requests from new customers had come in yet when he spoke to FORBES. New users don't pay for the first month. Because Basecamp provides project management tools that help offices organize better, January is the company's biggest month for signups. "It's an aspirational thing, trying to get your [stuff] together," says Fried. "So we'd start hearing from people in 45 or 60 days." President Harry S. Truman with his famous sign. (Credit: Harry S. Truman Library & Museum) Basecamp and Fried are in somewhat of a unique position to try such an experiment. Since starting the company, originally known as 37signals, in 1999, Fried and business partner David Heinemeier Hansson have retained near-total ownership of their company. They've taken no venture capital, selling only a small stake of their own founder shares to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos a decade ago. Employees receive higher salaries and profit sharing in lieu of equity in the company and would share in 5% of the proceeds of any acquisition of the business. Fried's been known for contrarian business positions besides just refunds. Basecamp has millions of users across 120,000 customers, but they all pay a flat rate regardless of how many users they have on the product (right now it's $100 per month). The company has spent less than $1 million on advertising across its history and recently pulled back from advertising on Facebook or Twitter completely, instead sponsoring podcasts that Fried likes. Basecamp also eschews a sales team, relying on word of mouth. With more sales and marketing, Basecamp would look like a much bigger company today than its current 51 employees, most of whom work remotely (Fried and the headquarters, such as it is, are in Chicago). But by going that route, Fried says his business has also been profitable for all 17 years of its history. While Basecamp declined to disclose its revenue, the business brings in tens of millions of dollars in profit alone, its CEO says. "It's super unfortunate and sad to me that a lot of companies are generating hundreds or tens of millions in revenue and can't turn a profit. To me, that's obscene," says Fried. "I'm happy growing 5% or 6% forever. I want slow, consistent growth that is predictable and comfortable." Given Fried's direct ownership of such a profitable business, his willingness to cut out a "car's worth" of salary to send to unhappy customers should be taken with a grain of salt. Fried's response: it may be enough money that it will make him feel more directly connected. "We have a lot to celebrate, but it's also good to know the bad stuff," Fried says. "When you talk about it in a general sense, you don't connect the dots back to people. It erases them from the equation." Fried admits that his refund policy might not work for every leader, especially at younger startups or small businesses in which management hasn't seen a big payday. Fried's response: at such businesses, a dollar leaving the company is felt directly by those at the top anyway.  At big companies in tech and other sectors, there's less of an excuse. Fried suggests that CEOs who can't afford to foot the bill could still make a gesture by writing personal notes to each unhappy client as a useful exercise in knowing your customer. "It's something everyone deals with inherently, automatically over the first few years, and then they stop," says Fried. "I'm trying to re-deal with it."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

No business leader likes it when a customer asks for a refund. At tech company Basecamp, CEO Jason Fried wants to do something about it.

"I want to feel what it's like directly when someone says, I want my money back," says Fried. "If someone pays for a few months and decides they don't like our product and we did something wrong, that's on me ultimately. So I'll pay them back."

Basecamp and Fried are committing that any customers who sign up in 2017 and ask for a refund will get money back from Fried's own salary as chief executive. For privacy and logistical reasons, they won't get a personal check from the company cofounder himself, but at the end of the year, Fried will write a check back to his company for the full amount of refunds over the time period.

"I know what our refund rate is, and you could buy a car with the number," says Fried. "It's a really small number relative to our customers, but in actual dollar terms it's a very real number."

The inspiration for Fried's promise came in late 2016 when he came across a photo of President Harry S. Truman at his desk in the Oval Office with a sign on his desk that said, "The buck stops here." What's true for a president, Fried thought, is also true for the management of a company—especially one led by a cofounder like Basecamp.

When his employees heard his plan, says Fried, they thought it was a bit crazy, but got behind it. None of them know exactly what will happen, least of all Fried, who calls the commitment an "experiment." Since Fried personally blogged about the decision on January 3, no refund requests from new customers had come in yet when he spoke to FORBES. New users don't pay for the first month. Because Basecamp provides project management tools that help offices organize better, January is the company's biggest month for signups. "It's an aspirational thing, trying to get your [stuff] together," says Fried. "So we'd start hearing from people in 45 or 60 days."

Basecamp and Fried are in somewhat of a unique position to try such an experiment. Since starting the company, originally known as 37signals, in 1999, Fried and business partner David Heinemeier Hansson have retained near-total ownership of their company. They've taken no venture capital, selling only a small stake of their own founder shares to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos a decade ago. Employees receive higher salaries and profit sharing in lieu of equity in the company and would share in 5% of the proceeds of any acquisition of the business.

Fried's been known for contrarian business positions besides just refunds. Basecamp has millions of users across 120,000 customers, but they all pay a flat rate regardless of how many users they have on the product (right now it's $100 per month). The company has spent less than $1 million on advertising across its history and recently pulled back from advertising on Facebook or Twitter completely, instead sponsoring podcasts that Fried likes. Basecamp also eschews a sales team, relying on word of mouth.

With more sales and marketing, Basecamp would look like a much bigger company today than its current 51 employees, most of whom work remotely (Fried and the headquarters, such as it is, are in Chicago). But by going that route, Fried says his business has also been profitable for all 17 years of its history. While Basecamp declined to disclose its revenue, the business brings in tens of millions of dollars in profit alone, its CEO says.

"It's super unfortunate and sad to me that a lot of companies are generating hundreds or tens of millions in revenue and can't turn a profit. To me, that's obscene," says Fried. "I'm happy growing 5% or 6% forever. I want slow, consistent growth that is predictable and comfortable."

Given Fried's direct ownership of such a profitable business, his willingness to cut out a "car's worth" of salary to send to unhappy customers should be taken with a grain of salt. Fried's response: it may be enough money that it will make him feel more directly connected. "We have a lot to celebrate, but it's also good to know the bad stuff," Fried says. "When you talk about it in a general sense, you don't connect the dots back to people. It erases them from the equation."

Fried admits that his refund policy might not work for every leader, especially at younger startups or small businesses in which management hasn't seen a big payday. Fried's response: at such businesses, a dollar leaving the company is felt directly by those at the top anyway. At big companies in tech and other sectors, there's less of an excuse. Fried suggests that CEOs who can't afford to foot the bill could still make a gesture by writing personal notes to each unhappy client as a useful exercise in knowing your customer.

"It's something everyone deals with inherently, automatically over the first few years, and then they stop," says Fried. "I'm trying to re-deal with it."

Follow Alex on Forbes, Twitter and Facebook for more coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital.