Jay Z Shuns Donald Trump Question, Recalls Meeting with Kalief Browder at Sundance Film Festival
Jay Z Shuns Donald Trump Question, Recalls Meeting with Kalief Browder at Sundance Film Festival
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Jay Z Shuns Donald Trump Question, Recalls Meeting with Kalief Browder at Sundance Film Festival  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  On Wednesday night (Jan. 25), Jay Z attended the Sundance Film Festival in Utah in support of his new docu-series, Spike TV's . During his Q&A session with the media, he shunned a reporter who asked about President Donald Trump. "Not gonna answer that," said Jay Z when asked about his thoughts on the 45th POTUS. Quickly after he deflected the question, executive producer, Harry Weinstein, intervened and ended the session. Last November, Jay Z and his wife Beyonce publicly supported Hillary Clinton. In support of the Democratic nominee, he held a concert in Cleveland days before the election. The show featured performances from Jay Z, Beyonce, Big Sean, and Chance The Rapper. After the show, Trump blasted the Brooklyn rapper at a Pennsylvania rally for using profanity during his performance.  "We don't need Jay Z to fill up arenas... we do it the old-fashioned way," Trump said. "I actually like Jay Z, but the language last night, ohhhh... I was thinking, maybe I'll just try -- should I use that language for one of mine?" During his Q&A, Jay Z opened up to the and revealed that he first learned of Kalief Browder's story through a profile conducted by . "It was meant to happen," he told at Sundance. "[Browder] came to my office. I wanted to see him, give him encouragement for those three years of life that he had missed – just offer encouragement and anything I could do for him." The docu-series will shed light on Browder's life as a 16-year-old African American teen who was accused of stealing a backpack. He was arrested and placed in Rikers Island for three years without a trial. Browder spent two years in solitary confinement. After being released, he committed suicide. will air on Spike TV on Wednesday, March 1 at 10 p.m. ET/PT. Take a look at the awkward exchange below, in addition to highlights from last night's event. Don't ask Jay Z no questions about Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/GbOY5Ne88F If you don't know about #kaliefbrowder, do yourself a favor and find the closest -- or -- and get to Googling. // #jayz recounts meeting Browder via #sundancefilmfestival @spiketv premiere A video posted by Kay Angrum ------ (@kayangrum) on #JayZ at the world premier of 'Time: The Kalief Browder Story' #Sundance  pic.twitter.com/pISpTg9dwA The premier of The Kalief Browder Story was heavy. Very heavy. But producers hope it will lead to legislative changes. #Sundance  pic.twitter.com/kXt1I0YSCH Emotional panel with Jay Z, Harvey Weinstein and the team behind the Kalief Browder Story. #Sundance  pic.twitter.com/V0IY1oQrNJ Jay Z and Harvey Weinstein, photographed at the Sundance Film Festival while premiering their Kalief Browder documentary series pic.twitter.com/BhJB8jNsAs  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

JayÂ ZÂ Carter speaksÂ at The Marc TheatreÂ during Sundance Film FestivalÂ on Jan. 25, 2017 in Park City, Utah.Â

On Wednesday night (Jan. 25), Jay Z attended the Sundance Film Festival in Utah in support of his new docu-series, Spike TV's TIME: The Kalief Browder Story. During his Q&A session with the media, he shunned a reporter who asked about President Donald Trump.

"Not gonna answer that," said Jay Z when asked about his thoughts on the 45th POTUS. Quickly after he deflected the question, TIME executive producer, Harry Weinstein, intervened and ended the session.

Last November, Jay Z and his wife Beyonce publicly supported Hillary Clinton. In support of the Democratic nominee, he held a concert in Cleveland days before the election. The show featured performances from Jay Z, Beyonce, Big Sean, and Chance The Rapper. After the show, Trump blasted the Brooklyn rapper at a Pennsylvania rally for using profanity during his performance.

"We don't need Jay Z to fill up arenas... we do it the old-fashioned way," Trump said. "I actually like Jay Z, but the language last night, ohhhh... I was thinking, maybe I'll just try -- should I use that language for one of mine?"

During his Q&A, Jay Z opened up to the Associated Press and revealed that he first learned of Kalief Browder's story through a profile conducted by The New Yorker. "It was meant to happen," he told AP at Sundance. "[Browder] came to my office. I wanted to see him, give him encouragement for those three years of life that he had missed – just offer encouragement and anything I could do for him."

The docu-series will shed light on Browder's life as a 16-year-old African American teen who was accused of stealing a backpack. He was arrested and placed in Rikers Island for three years without a trial. Browder spent two years in solitary confinement. After being released, he committed suicide. TIME: The Kalief Browder Story will air on Spike TV on Wednesday, March 1 at 10 p.m. ET/PT.

Take a look at the awkward exchange below, in addition to highlights from last night's event.

Don't ask Jay Z no questions about Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/GbOY5Ne88F — DJ Akademiks (@IamAkademiks) January 26, 2017

If you don't know about #kaliefbrowder, do yourself a favor and find the closest -- or -- and get to Googling. // #jayz recounts meeting Browder via #sundancefilmfestival @spiketv premiere A video posted by Kay Angrum ------ (@kayangrum) on Jan 25, 2017 at 5:41pm PST

The premier of The Kalief Browder Story was heavy. Very heavy. But producers hope it will lead to legislative changes. #Sundance pic.twitter.com/kXt1I0YSCH — Global Lipstick® (@GlobalLipstick) January 26, 2017

Emotional panel with Jay Z, Harvey Weinstein and the team behind the Kalief Browder Story. #Sundance pic.twitter.com/V0IY1oQrNJ — Ashley Mosley (@ashmosley) January 26, 2017