Chinese man dances while preparing noodles
Man gets in the groove while making one single noodle dish


We've all had our moments of dancing in the kitchen, but this man from China might have beat us all.

The chef has become a social media star after being filmed dancing passionately while preparing a bowl of soup noodle.

Incredibly, the man made the dish with one single noodle, as the trending video shows.

I like dancing: The man in China lost himself in music but still managed to cook the noodle

The video has been widely shared on Chinese social media sites as well as YouTube.

The young man, unidentified, is said to be working at a restaurant called 'Huang's One Noodle' in Huanglongxi, a historic town in Chengdu, south-west China.

The one-minute-long video showed him dancing to the beat while grabbing an extremely long and thin noodle. He threw it to a pot of boiling water rhythmically.

One woman who worked in the shop can be heard telling the customers: 'There is only one noodle in a bowl.'

'Huang's One Noodle' sells a lucky dish made of one single noodle. Each bowl costs £1.73

The dish, known as 'one noodle', is a traditional dish which the locals eat on their birthdays.

According to local customs, eating a bowl of 'one noodle' on the birthday could bring the person good luck and longevity. Each bowl costs about 15 yuan (£1.73).

The chef is apparently a local celebrity. His performance has drawn a lot of tourists to the shop.

Huanglongxi is an ancient town with over 1700 years of history.

Stretch and pull: The man has become an internet star in China with many praising his moves

The video has turned the man into an internet star in China, with many people leaving comments on Weibo.

One web user commented: 'The music just got into his nerves!'

Another web user 'handsome blogger' said: 'Imagine if he has to make 100 bowls a day!'

One wondered if the noodle would be completely cooked.

Some said that the man is talented enough to perform on the Chinese New Year Gala, a live performance broadcast at the Chinese New Year's Eve and watched by some 700 million people.