Abuse of baby 'could have been identified earlier by medical staff'

and agencies    A five-week-old girl beaten by her parents could have been protected from life-changing injuries if medical staff had identified earlier signs of abuse, a report has concluded. Rocky Uzzell and Katherine Prigmore, from Kettering, Northamptonshire, were jailed in December for inflicting injuries on their baby daughter that left her blind and unable to walk. The girl, who was born on 8 February 2014 and is now nearly three years old, will have to be fed through a tube for the rest of her life, and will not be able to talk. The abuse was discovered when the girl was admitted to Kettering general hospital with brain injuries on 20 March 2014, five weeks after she was born. A serious case review by Northamptonshire safeguarding children board (NSCB) found that the girl, referred to as Child N, had been to hospital five times previously, including on 14 March 2014 when a chest x-ray failed to pick up two rib fractures. A “patchiness” was noticed but she was discharged with antibiotics for a chest infection. The report says: “If the rib fractures had been identified at that point, it is likely that the subsequent serious injuries to Child N could have been prevented by removing her from her parents’ care.” After her admission to hospital on 20 March 2014, it was identified through x-rays and scans that Child N had sustained brain injuries, two broken ribs, a broken leg and a broken wrist in injuries sustained over a period of several weeks. There was also an earlier admission during which the parents reported their daughter was suffering from “leg pain” but a fracture was ruled out. Later tests revealed the most likely cause of the pain was a leg fracture. The report adds: “In this case there were two occasions where a very vulnerable young and immobile infant presented with symptoms that were not adequately explained at the time. “In retrospect, it is very likely that both these presentations were directly linked to abuse, but any suspicion of non-accidental injury was lost at an early stage.” The report concludes it was possible that Uzzell and Prigmore’s difficulties in caring for their daughter could have been predicted, but adds there were suggestions that they were coping with the stress of a newborn and were “devoted” to her. Uzzell, 29, and Prigmore, 24, pleaded guilty to causing or allowing a child to suffer serious physical harm. Uzzell was sentenced to eight and a half years and Prigmore to 28 months. Elsewhere, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) has said in a report that Cumbria police need immediate improvement to protect children. The inspection was prompted by Cumbria’s former police and crime commissioner Richard Rhodes, who urged HMIC to look into how the force responded to unexplained deaths of children. The force was previously criticised for failing to properly investigate the death of Poppi Worthington in 2012. Mr Justice Peter Jackson, a high court judge, found that, on the civil standard of the balance of probabilities, her father, Paul Worthington, sexually abused Poppi in the hours before she died. Worthington, 47, was arrested and questioned on suspicion of sexual assault at the time but was never charged with any offence. He denies any wrongdoing. The judge also concluded that the investigation into her death was hindered by police errors, including not securing the scene, failing to take vital items for forensic analysis and a senior detective not visiting the family home. Topics  Child protection   Children   Social care

A five-week-old girl beaten by her parents could have been protected from life-changing injuries if medical staff had identified earlier signs of abuse, a report has concluded.

Rocky Uzzell and Katherine Prigmore, from Kettering, Northamptonshire, were jailed in December for inflicting injuries on their baby daughter that left her blind and unable to walk. The girl, who was born on 8 February 2014 and is now nearly three years old, will have to be fed through a tube for the rest of her life, and will not be able to talk.

The abuse was discovered when the girl was admitted to Kettering general hospital with brain injuries on 20 March 2014, five weeks after she was born.

A serious case review by Northamptonshire safeguarding children board (NSCB) found that the girl, referred to as Child N, had been to hospital five times previously, including on 14 March 2014 when a chest x-ray failed to pick up two rib fractures. A “patchiness” was noticed but she was discharged with antibiotics for a chest infection.

The report says: “If the rib fractures had been identified at that point, it is likely that the subsequent serious injuries to Child N could have been prevented by removing her from her parents’ care.”

After her admission to hospital on 20 March 2014, it was identified through x-rays and scans that Child N had sustained brain injuries, two broken ribs, a broken leg and a broken wrist in injuries sustained over a period of several weeks.

There was also an earlier admission during which the parents reported their daughter was suffering from “leg pain” but a fracture was ruled out. Later tests revealed the most likely cause of the pain was a leg fracture.

The report adds: “In this case there were two occasions where a very vulnerable young and immobile infant presented with symptoms that were not adequately explained at the time.



“In retrospect, it is very likely that both these presentations were directly linked to abuse, but any suspicion of non-accidental injury was lost at an early stage.”

The report concludes it was possible that Uzzell and Prigmore’s difficulties in caring for their daughter could have been predicted, but adds there were suggestions that they were coping with the stress of a newborn and were “devoted” to her.

Uzzell, 29, and Prigmore, 24, pleaded guilty to causing or allowing a child to suffer serious physical harm. Uzzell was sentenced to eight and a half years and Prigmore to 28 months.

Elsewhere, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) has said in a report that Cumbria police need immediate improvement to protect children.

The inspection was prompted by Cumbria’s former police and crime commissioner Richard Rhodes, who urged HMIC to look into how the force responded to unexplained deaths of children.

The force was previously criticised for failing to properly investigate the death of Poppi Worthington in 2012.



Mr Justice Peter Jackson, a high court judge, found that, on the civil standard of the balance of probabilities, her father, Paul Worthington, sexually abused Poppi in the hours before she died.

Worthington, 47, was arrested and questioned on suspicion of sexual assault at the time but was never charged with any offence. He denies any wrongdoing.



The judge also concluded that the investigation into her death was hindered by police errors, including not securing the scene, failing to take vital items for forensic analysis and a senior detective not visiting the family home.