Rumors about Google's next Pixel smartphone are already starting to emerge
Rumors about Google's next Pixel smartphone are already starting to emerge


The Google Pixel is a fantastic phone that's earned the top spot in our top 20 smartphones list. It has notable advantages over the iPhone.Â

And now, so soon after the Pixel's release in October, a bunch of rumors surrounding the Pixel's successor are already rearing their heads. Supposedly, it'll be called the "Pixel 2."

According to 9to5Google's sources that have been "reliable in the past," Google will potentially add water-resistance to the Pixel 2. If true, it would fill a glaring gap in the original Pixel's feature list, especially when you compared it with the water-resistant iPhone 7 and Samsung Galaxy S7.Â

Additionally, Google is apparently improving on the original Pixel's camera for the Pixel 2. Supposedly, Google isn't ramping up the megapixel count, but will be "compensating" with extra features. One of those features includes even better low-light photography, which the original Pixel was already good at.

Unsurprisingly, the Pixel 2 is also said to come with a faster processor, which is to be expected.Â

However, less expected is that Google may charge $50 more than the Pixel for the Pixel 2. That would bring up the Pixel's $650 base price up to $700. That's also $50 higher than the current iPhone 7 and Galaxy S7, but we'll have to see how the Pixel 2's price point and features will compare with the upcoming flagship releases from Apple and Samsung.

9to5Google's sources also claim a budget model of the Pixel 2 is in the works, which could be sold at a much lower price than the Pixel, and it'll come with "less powerful hardware." However, it's said to be aimed for markets outside the US.

No matter how reliable a source, nothing here is fact until Google makes an announcement. Based on the original Pixel's October launch, we can only speculate that Google will also launch the Pixel 2 in October or at some other point this fall.