Michigan Wolverines coach Jim Harbaugh reunites with mail truck driver who hit him at age 7
U-M's Harbaugh meets driver who hit him as kid
U-M's Harbaugh meets driver who hit him as kid Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State No. 28 Woodbey commits to Ohio State for '18 Baylor fires asst. after arrest in prostitution sting Lawyer: Minnesota players discussing lawsuit OTL: NCAA inquiry into Baylor scandal ongoing Colorado abuse accuser: MacIntyre knew earlier Rudy's Notre Dame helmet, jersey sell for $241K Why schools push so hard for recruits to enroll early Take a tour of Clemson's ridiculously cool new facility What happens when Jim Harbaugh tweets out your phone number? The mystery of the 'Matty Ice' nickname rages on NLRB: Football players at private FBS schools are employees Kirby Smart delivers hope to Georgia, but now he must win Why LSU, Georgia should temper signing day excitement Welcome to the circus that will be 2018 Sunshine State recruiting Post-signing day Way-Too-Early 2017 Top 25 Early bird Duke opens spring, with focus on getting back to a bowl NCAA agrees to $209M scholarships settlement Alabama's record-setting 2017 class has lofty standards to reach 1 Related National signing day's winners and losers Despite whiffing on Marvin Wilson, LSU hits home run with first class under Ed Orgeron Florida State rallies to become five-star destination Top-ranked DT Wilson bolsters Seminoles' class Inside Tom Herman's first national signing day at Texas Ohio State QB signee Tate Martell isn't afraid of competition Urban Meyer had last laugh in prank war with recruit Baron Browning Signing day: Alabama back on top; USC shines Which recruiting classes aced signing day? USC carries Rose Bowl momentum into strong signing day showing Michigan shifts 'Signing of the Stars' focus back to where it should be Wisconsin DC Jim Leonhard's meteoric coaching rise highlights his special qualities Badgers get in New York state of mind with QB Jack Coan Tex-odus: Why more recruits are fleeing the Lone Star State Randy Scott and Sarina Morales react to Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh reuniting with the man who broke his leg while driving a mail truck when Harbaugh was 7. (0:46) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers the Big Ten Joined ESPN.com in 2014 Graduate of the University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh bumped into a familiar face on the recruiting trail in Iowa on Wednesday evening. This meeting was significantly less painful for Harbaugh than the first. Harbaugh tweeted a photo of himself and Dan McGivern, the man who he said was driving a mail truck that broke Harbaugh's leg nearly 50 years ago. With Dan McGivern of Iowa City. Driver, when I ran into traffic & took on his car @ age 6 #LifeSaver  #DefiningMoment  pic.twitter.com/UOM055euuY — Coach Harbaugh (@CoachJim4UM) January 26, 2017 The story, as Harbaugh tells it, starts the week his family moved in 1971 to Iowa City, where his father, Jack, had accepted an assistant coaching position with the Iowa Hawkeyes . Harbaugh ran into the street with his older brother, John, and collided with an oncoming truck. "John and I had gone to school, our first day at Roosevelt Elementary," Harbaugh told reporters earlier this fall. "First day we'd moved there and found some kids to play with after school. "I was trying to put my jacket on over my head all at once. I was just following after him, and he crossed the street -- busy street there. The next thing I know, I woke up in a hospital bed. I'd got hit by a mail truck. Broke my leg in two places, had a cast on for about six months. I was in the first grade." It's not clear how they were reunited, but Harbaugh is in Iowa making some final recruiting stops before national signing day next week. Harbaugh and McGivern also took a picture holding bottles of milk, and the coach endorsed McGivern's new business in life insurance sales. Michigan loans Harbaugh $2 million per year to go toward a life insurance policy as part of his coaching contract. Unfortunately for McGivern, Harbaugh agreed to terms on the policy about nine months before they crossed paths again. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Randy Scott and Sarina Morales react to Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh reuniting with the man who broke his leg while driving a mail truck when Harbaugh was 7. (0:46)

Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh bumped into a familiar face on the recruiting trail in Iowa on Wednesday evening.

This meeting was significantly less painful for Harbaugh than the first.

Harbaugh tweeted a photo of himself and Dan McGivern, the man who he said was driving a mail truck that broke Harbaugh's leg nearly 50 years ago.

With Dan McGivern of Iowa City. Driver, when I ran into traffic & took on his car @ age 6 #LifeSaver #DefiningMoment pic.twitter.com/UOM055euuY — Coach Harbaugh (@CoachJim4UM) January 26, 2017

The story, as Harbaugh tells it, starts the week his family moved in 1971 to Iowa City, where his father, Jack, had accepted an assistant coaching position with the Iowa Hawkeyes. Harbaugh ran into the street with his older brother, John, and collided with an oncoming truck.

Editor's Picks Michigan's signing day might not have same shock factor as a year ago There might be fewer celebrities on hand at Michigan's second "Signing of the Stars," but Jim Harbaugh is set to welcome another talented group.

How Jim Harbaugh and Urban Meyer have raised Big Ten recruiting What's the difference two years and two elite recruiters in Urban Meyer and Jim Harbaugh have made for the Big Ten? Check out the recruiting ranking and top targets choosing the league. 1 Related

"John and I had gone to school, our first day at Roosevelt Elementary," Harbaugh told reporters earlier this fall. "First day we'd moved there and found some kids to play with after school.

"I was trying to put my jacket on over my head all at once. I was just following after him, and he crossed the street -- busy street there. The next thing I know, I woke up in a hospital bed. I'd got hit by a mail truck. Broke my leg in two places, had a cast on for about six months. I was in the first grade."

It's not clear how they were reunited, but Harbaugh is in Iowa making some final recruiting stops before national signing day next week. Harbaugh and McGivern also took a picture holding bottles of milk, and the coach endorsed McGivern's new business in life insurance sales.

Michigan loans Harbaugh $2 million per year to go toward a life insurance policy as part of his coaching contract. Unfortunately for McGivern, Harbaugh agreed to terms on the policy about nine months before they crossed paths again.