Birdman Compares Young Thug To Michael Jackson And Prince
Birdman Compares Young Thug To Michael Jackson And Prince
If you hadn't noticed, Birdman and Young Thug are working together again . Not only that, but they're working on another Rich Gang album after a couple years off from collaborating. Birdman has been steadily teasing their new work together on Instagram lately, and in a new video, he went out of his way to praise Thugga. In the above video, Baby points to Thug and says, "Michael Jackson, Prince," which is basically comparing him to the late legends. While that might upset some, Birdman is really just playing up Thug with their new music on the way. If you remember, during a recent interview on Apple Music , Baby teased that him and Thug had about 10 songs done on , and that it was just going to be him and Thug with no Rich Homie Quan. That sounds exciting AF, and with Thug's own solo music also on the way, it's shaping up to be another huge year for Thugga. Check out the video of Birdman and Thug in the studio above. #RG2 @birdman5star @thuggerthugger1 #stunnaisland @versace @robertocavalli A video posted by Birdman5star (@birdman5star) on Jan 16, 2017 at 11:57am PST

If you hadn't noticed, Birdman and Young Thug are working together again. Not only that, but they're working on another Rich Gang album after a couple years off from collaborating. Birdman has been steadily teasing their new work together on Instagram lately, and in a new video, he went out of his way to praise Thugga. In the above video, Baby points to Thug and says, "Michael Jackson, Prince," which is basically comparing him to the late legends.

While that might upset some, Birdman is really just playing up Thug with their new music on the way. If you remember, during a recent interview on Apple Music, Baby teased that him and Thug had about 10 songs done on Rich Gang 2, and that it was just going to be him and Thug with no Rich Homie Quan. That sounds exciting AF, and with Thug's own solo music also on the way, it's shaping up to be another huge year for Thugga. Check out the video of Birdman and Thug in the studio above.