A 100-mile rail trip through the Himalayas – for just 42p
A 100-mile rail trip through the Himalayas – for just 42p
ou really can’t complain about the ticket prices. A 100-mile trip on the Kangra Valley Railway, through some of northern India’s loveliest landscapes, costs just 35 rupees – or around 42p. Admittedly, the journey, winding past the Himalayan foothills, takes just short of 10 hours. But what’s the hurry? This is a perfect example of slow travel at its – well – slowest. It isn’t one of the high-profile hill railways. For every thousand tourists who take the celebrated “toy train” up to Shimla, hardly a handful do the narrow-gauge Kangra service, around 70 miles further north. Tipped for Unesco world heritage status, it climbs to almost 4,000ft, with 33 scheduled station stops. It offers spectacular views of the snow-capped Dhauladhar range and the fertile valley itself – “a picture of rural loveliness and repose” as a Victorian colonial official wrote a century ago. Don’t expect a tourist train, says Ashok Kumar, as he drives my wife, Clare, and I through a misty early morning to Pathankot, the railway junction where the Kangra line, completed in 1929, starts its long haul east to the town of Joginder Nagar. “It’s a very simple train,” says Ashok, one of the best drivers we’ve had in 30 years of visiting India. “Local people travel on it.” Through the mist we can just about make out shawl-swathed men on bicycles, lorries with bulging loads of hay, and shutters being rattled up for the day at dhabas – cheap roadside restaurants. At the station a couple of dozen passengers are waiting for the train to arrive. People are sleeping on the platform, vague shapes under thick blankets. A man sits on a bench as a barber shaves him. The walls of the Reservations Room are dotted with notices: “Cleanliness is our goal… And you have an important role”. “It’s about your health and hygiene… So help us keep trains and stations clean”. Indian Railways probably has a Directorate of Rhyming Homilies churning this stuff out. We hand over 25 rupees (30p) each at the ticket office. We’re only doing the first half of the journey, as far as Kangra, a small town best known for its towering fort. It’s a 60-mile journey taking just under five hours. You can’t buy tickets in advance or reserve seats, so you have to hope that the train won’t be packed. Best avoid travelling during big local cricket fixtures. The train pulls in: a diesel engine like an elongated industrial boiler and half-a-dozen boxy blue and yellow second-class carriages. We bag two seats. They’re no frills, bus-like, only lightly padded but not uncomfortable. At the far end of the train are two small first-class compartments, with tickets at a comparatively stratospheric 180 rupees (£2.15) for the full journey. They’re marginally plusher than second class, but we’d probably be on our own and Indian rail travel is all about sociability. Across the aisle from us in second class are Rajesh Banty, a businessman with slicked-back hair and sunglasses, and his wife Kanchen Pooja. They’re on their way home with the new water purifier they’ve just bought. Rajesh opens a bag of Uncle Chipps,  a brand of Indian crisps, and offers us some. Along from a disconsolate-looking group of women labourers, half-a-dozen excitable young men have stopped taking selfies and are scrambling for seats and luggage space. There’s always room for one more in India. The carriage gradually fills up, until it’s standing-room only. Numbers thin out later, though, as most passengers travel just a few stops. A portly woman sits down next to Clare and edges her along the seat. A white-haired old lady gets on and sings a Hindi song; people give her money. Our fellow passengers stare unblinkingly at us, then lose interest and look away. Just after 10am, there’s a shriek from the engine and Ashok, out on the platform, waves us off. I get talking to VK Babber, a clothes retailer on his way home after a trade trip to Delhi. I tell him we’re going to Kangra. “In Jawalamukhi, two stations before, local fish is very good,” he says. We trundle past low forested hills, orange groves, tea gardens, conical haystacks, cow pats left out to dry in the sun for fuel, classes of children sitting cross-legged in school playgrounds for their lessons. It’s a microcosm of everyday rural India, endlessly interesting. The train’s steady dum-dum-di-dum rhythm lulls us into a near-meditative state. Some passengers talk. Most gaze out of the window, in their own zone. Eventually we reach the first of the line’s two tunnels, plunging us into pitch darkness, with much screaming and whistling from the young men. The track also crosses an astonishing 970 bridges. Building one of them, a railway report noted, was “a titanic struggle between the forces of nature and the ingenuity of science”. Every few stations, men climb on with trays of snacks. Chai-wallahs with great chrome teapots pass cups of tea through the windows. After a couple of hours, the uplands open out: dense forests, broad rivers, deep gorges, plateaux with grazing cattle. Across the aisle Kanchen Pooja is sharing family photographs with a woman who sat down next to her five minutes ago. We arrive at Kangra at 3.30pm, half an hour late but nicely timed for a cloudburst of screeching parakeets. It’s a clean and peaceful station with two substantial trees growing through its curving platform. Ashok is waiting for us. He has driven ahead and has been here for hours. “Mountains are there,” he says, pointing into the afternoon mist. “But not very clear.” We’ll see them next morning, glistening icy white, but for the moment we watch the train pull out for its final 40-mile run to Joginder Nagar. A mere five hours ahead. Getting there Cox & Kings (020 3642 0861; coxandkings.co.uk ) has a 13-day/11-night journey through the Himalayan Foothills escorted tour from £1,845 per person, including flights, transfers, sightseeing and accommodation with breakfast daily and some other meals. The tour features rides on the Kangra Valley Railway and the Kalka-Shimla “toy train” as well as visits to Amritsar, Dharamsala, Shimla, Chandigarh and Delhi. Staying there Before heading to the mountains, the writer stayed at the bustling Lalit New Delhi , a luxurious and welcoming high-rise hotel near Connaught Place. It has sleekly stylish rooms, a range of excellent restaurants and five-star facilities, including gym, outdoor pool and spa. Double rooms from £106 per night . Further information For more train journeys in India: seat61.com ; for other general travel in India: incredibleindia.org

You really can’t complain about the ticket prices. A 100-mile trip on the Kangra Valley Railway, through some of northern India’s loveliest landscapes, costs just 35 rupees – or around 42p.

Admittedly, the journey, winding past the Himalayan foothills, takes just short of 10 hours. But what’s the hurry? This is a perfect example of slow travel at its – well – slowest.

It isn’t one of the high-profile hill railways. For every thousand tourists who take the celebrated “toy train” up to Shimla, hardly a handful do the narrow-gauge Kangra service, around 70 miles further north.

A local boy looks excited at the prospect of riding the railway Credit: ALAMY

Tipped for Unesco world heritage status, it climbs to almost 4,000ft, with 33 scheduled station stops. It offers spectacular views of the snow-capped Dhauladhar range and the fertile valley itself – “a picture of rural loveliness and repose” as a Victorian colonial official wrote a century ago.

Don’t expect a tourist train, says Ashok Kumar, as he drives my wife, Clare, and I through a misty early morning to Pathankot, the railway junction where the Kangra line, completed in 1929, starts its long haul east to the town of Joginder Nagar.

A picture of rural loveliness and repose

“It’s a very simple train,” says Ashok, one of the best drivers we’ve had in 30 years of visiting India. “Local people travel on it.” Through the mist we can just about make out shawl-swathed men on bicycles, lorries with bulging loads of hay, and shutters being rattled up for the day at dhabas – cheap roadside restaurants.

At the station a couple of dozen passengers are waiting for the train to arrive. People are sleeping on the platform, vague shapes under thick blankets. A man sits on a bench as a barber shaves him.

The walls of the Reservations Room are dotted with notices: “Cleanliness is our goal… And you have an important role”. “It’s about your health and hygiene… So help us keep trains and stations clean”. Indian Railways probably has a Directorate of Rhyming Homilies churning this stuff out.

We hand over 25 rupees (30p) each at the ticket office. We’re only doing the first half of the journey, as far as Kangra, a small town best known for its towering fort. It’s a 60-mile journey taking just under five hours. You can’t buy tickets in advance or reserve seats, so you have to hope that the train won’t be packed. Best avoid travelling during big local cricket fixtures.

A man sits on a bench as a barber shaves him

The train pulls in: a diesel engine like an elongated industrial boiler and half-a-dozen boxy blue and yellow second-class carriages. We bag two seats. They’re no frills, bus-like, only lightly padded but not uncomfortable.

At the far end of the train are two small first-class compartments, with tickets at a comparatively stratospheric 180 rupees (£2.15) for the full journey. They’re marginally plusher than second class, but we’d probably be on our own and Indian rail travel is all about sociability.

The journey offers views of snow-capped Himalayan peaks Credit: ALAMY

Across the aisle from us in second class are Rajesh Banty, a businessman with slicked-back hair and sunglasses, and his wife Kanchen Pooja. They’re on their way home with the new water purifier they’ve just bought. Rajesh opens a bag of Uncle Chipps, a brand of Indian crisps, and offers us some.

Along from a disconsolate-looking group of women labourers, half-a-dozen excitable young men have stopped taking selfies and are scrambling for seats and luggage space. There’s always room for one more in India.

The carriage gradually fills up, until it’s standing-room only. Numbers thin out later, though, as most passengers travel just a few stops. A portly woman sits down next to Clare and edges her along the seat. A white-haired old lady gets on and sings a Hindi song; people give her money. Our fellow passengers stare unblinkingly at us, then lose interest and look away.

Just after 10am, there’s a shriek from the engine and Ashok, out on the platform, waves us off. I get talking to VK Babber, a clothes retailer on his way home after a trade trip to Delhi. I tell him we’re going to Kangra. “In Jawalamukhi, two stations before, local fish is very good,” he says.

We trundle past low forested hills, orange groves, tea gardens, conical haystacks, cow pats left out to dry in the sun for fuel, classes of children sitting cross-legged in school playgrounds for their lessons. It’s a microcosm of everyday rural India, endlessly interesting.

There’s always room for one more in India

The train’s steady dum-dum-di-dum rhythm lulls us into a near-meditative state. Some passengers talk. Most gaze out of the window, in their own zone.

Eventually we reach the first of the line’s two tunnels, plunging us into pitch darkness, with much screaming and whistling from the young men. The track also crosses an astonishing 970 bridges. Building one of them, a railway report noted, was “a titanic struggle between the forces of nature and the ingenuity of science”.

A young girl with a painted face sits on the porch of a house in Jawalamukhi Credit: GETTY

Every few stations, men climb on with trays of snacks. Chai-wallahs with great chrome teapots pass cups of tea through the windows. After a couple of hours, the uplands open out: dense forests, broad rivers, deep gorges, plateaux with grazing cattle. Across the aisle Kanchen Pooja is sharing family photographs with a woman who sat down next to her five minutes ago.

We arrive at Kangra at 3.30pm, half an hour late but nicely timed for a cloudburst of screeching parakeets. It’s a clean and peaceful station with two substantial trees growing through its curving platform.

Ashok is waiting for us. He has driven ahead and has been here for hours. “Mountains are there,” he says, pointing into the afternoon mist. “But not very clear.”

We’ll see them next morning, glistening icy white, but for the moment we watch the train pull out for its final 40-mile run to Joginder Nagar. A mere five hours ahead.

Getting there

Cox & Kings (020 3642 0861; coxandkings.co.uk) has a 13-day/11-night journey through the Himalayan Foothills escorted tour from £1,845 per person, including flights, transfers, sightseeing and accommodation with breakfast daily and some other meals. The tour features rides on the Kangra Valley Railway and the Kalka-Shimla “toy train” as well as visits to Amritsar, Dharamsala, Shimla, Chandigarh and Delhi.

Staying there

Before heading to the mountains, the writer stayed at the bustling Lalit New Delhi, a luxurious and welcoming high-rise hotel near Connaught Place. It has sleekly stylish rooms, a range of excellent restaurants and five-star facilities, including gym, outdoor pool and spa. Double rooms from £106 per night.

Further information

For more train journeys in India: seat61.com; for other general travel in India: incredibleindia.org