Hey Sean Spicer, what's up with that cryptic tweet?
Hey Sean Spicer, what's up with that cryptic tweet?
Twitter is transforming into a serious source of anxiety for those on edge about America's current political climate. In case Donald Trump's incorrect grammar and constant misspelled words weren't enough cause for concern, on Thursday morning the White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, tweeted (and deleted) something very cryptic. SEE ALSO: Is swallowing gum bad for you? Asking for a friend (Sean Spicer) Spicer woke up on Thursday, and for some unknown reason composed this bizarre eight-character tweet to share with his 1.36 million followers: Image:  screengrab: presssec/twitter It made no sense. Was this meant to be a DM? Did Spicer give us a sneak peek at the nuclear coder? Did North West get a hold of Spicer's phone and give her notorious Twitter fingers a workout? What were you trying to tell us, Spicer? SPICER?! Though the tweet was swiftly deleted, screengrabs are forever. As Twitter users further examined the jumble of lowercase letters and numbers the theories began to unfold. Many believed that in some strange accidental way, Spicer simply tweeted his password. But he would have already be logged in to Twitter so, huh? Did the White House Press Secretary just tweet his password? I don't know about y'all but I feel safe https://t.co/ulRm31iVC0  pic.twitter.com/zokfVvWVnQ — Anna Massoglia (@annalecta) January 26, 2017 White House @PressSec  @seanspicer just posted - and deleted - this. I'm guessing it's his password. pic.twitter.com/0rnYYYmyEJ — Evan O'Connell ❄️ (@evanoconnell) January 26, 2017 Somebody use Sean Spicer's twitter password and see if he's really in cahoots with Dippin' Dots and the whole thing was for press — Ch'ad (@chadlegear) January 26, 2017 Some fear he started to slip up with the nuke codes... Is @PressSec  @seanspicer tweeting the nuke codes or his email password? #justWondering  pic.twitter.com/zQaMY5lAU3 — Isaac McDaniel (@mcdaniel_isaac) January 26, 2017 sean spicer is casually tweeting nuclear codes — kira (@briefclaim) January 26, 2017 *Sean Spicer wakes up, checks to-do list* "Ah number 1, DM the nuclear launch codes to POTUS.... and done..... OH NO! HOW DO I DELETE?!" — Guy Tweet Haver (@thetweethaver) January 26, 2017 Others just saw it as a cry for help... Is @seanspicer signalling for help? pic.twitter.com/ezTPmwuDMJ — Hayley Morgan (@dyingischeaper) January 26, 2017 Could these be coded messages to help rescue him from hostage situation? pic.twitter.com/C3TOWnSGV2 — Ryan Lizza (@RyanLizza) January 26, 2017 It also appears Spitzer may have had sent out a similarly bizarre tweet on Wednesday morning? Same, Sean. Same. pic.twitter.com/z68CKMD13n — Chris Geidner (@chrisgeidner) January 25, 2017 .... übrigens twittert @PressSec Sean Spicer manchmal ein Passwort. Vielleicht hilfreich. pic.twitter.com/CyKP9EEwSI — Aendu Aerni (@aendu) January 26, 2017 The world may never know what Spicer was up to this morning, but the way things have been going for Trump and pals, another Twitter flub is probably on its way. BONUS: Yes, Trump watched the Women's Marches, and yes, he tweeted about it

Twitter is transforming into a serious source of anxiety for those on edge about America's current political climate.

In case Donald Trump's incorrect grammar and constant misspelled words weren't enough cause for concern, on Thursday morning the White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, tweeted (and deleted) something very cryptic.

Spicer woke up on Thursday, and for some unknown reason composed this bizarre eight-character tweet to share with his 1.36 million followers:

Image: screengrab: presssec/twitter

It made no sense.

Was this meant to be a DM? Did Spicer give us a sneak peek at the nuclear coder? Did North West get a hold of Spicer's phone and give her notorious Twitter fingers a workout?

What were you trying to tell us, Spicer? SPICER?!

Though the tweet was swiftly deleted, screengrabs are forever. As Twitter users further examined the jumble of lowercase letters and numbers the theories began to unfold.

Many believed that in some strange accidental way, Spicer simply tweeted his password. But he would have already be logged in to Twitter so, huh?

Did the White House Press Secretary just tweet his password? I don't know about y'all but I feel safe https://t.co/ulRm31iVC0 pic.twitter.com/zokfVvWVnQ — Anna Massoglia (@annalecta) January 26, 2017

Somebody use Sean Spicer's twitter password and see if he's really in cahoots with Dippin' Dots and the whole thing was for press — Ch'ad (@chadlegear) January 26, 2017

Some fear he started to slip up with the nuke codes...

sean spicer is casually tweeting nuclear codes — kira (@briefclaim) January 26, 2017

*Sean Spicer wakes up, checks to-do list*



"Ah number 1, DM the nuclear launch codes to POTUS.... and done.....



OH NO! HOW DO I DELETE?!" — Guy Tweet Haver (@thetweethaver) January 26, 2017

Others just saw it as a cry for help...

Could these be coded messages to help rescue him from hostage situation? pic.twitter.com/C3TOWnSGV2 — Ryan Lizza (@RyanLizza) January 26, 2017

It also appears Spitzer may have had sent out a similarly bizarre tweet on Wednesday morning?

.... übrigens twittert @PressSec Sean Spicer manchmal ein Passwort. Vielleicht hilfreich. pic.twitter.com/CyKP9EEwSI — Aendu Aerni (@aendu) January 26, 2017

The world may never know what Spicer was up to this morning, but the way things have been going for Trump and pals, another Twitter flub is probably on its way.