Is your child struggling at school? Feed them kale
Is your child struggling at school? Feed them kale


Feeding your children kale, spinach and red meat could help them to get an A, new research suggests.

College students who are iron deficient perform significantly worse than their healthy counterparts, scientists have found.

But eating foods that are full of the nutrient could help to boost their mark by one entire grade, experts believe.

And exercising at the same time provides an even bigger increase - aiding fit teenagers in their quest to attend the best universities.

Scroll down for video

Eating foods that are full of iron, such as kale, could help children to boost their marks by one entire grades, experts believe

A team of US researchers analysed 105 young female students who had an average grade point average (GPA) of 3.68.

They wanted to assess the impacts of both exercising and iron levels on someone's potential grades.

Data showed that those with greater amounts of the nutrient stored away had the better performance levels.

The difference was measured at 0.34 - enough to drop or increase a grade, the study published in the Journal of Nutrition found.

But the impact of fitness was greater overall than the impact of iron status, according to lead researcher Karsten Koehler.

And taken together, the impact was even greater, the assistant professor of nutrition and health sciences at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln said.

Students who are iron deficient perform significantly worse than their healthy counterparts, a new study found (stock)

He added: 'GPA is a very easy measure of success and something everyone can relate to. That's something that resonates pretty well.

'It's always nice to show an association that has a meaningful effect that translates into something everybody can apply.

IRON PREVENTS HEARING LOSS A pint of Guinness each day may help to prevent you from going deaf, research suggested last month. The popular beverage contains high levels of iron, which scientists believe helps to ward off hearing loss. While leafy green vegetables, brown rice and some meat may also help, a new study claimed.

'Improving fitness or maintaining a high level of fitness can be important for collegiate success.

'Ideally, we should also make sure the diet is appropriate to prevent nutrient deficiencies.'

Iron helps the body perform essential functions, such as transporting oxygen in the bloodstream.

But a deficiency has previously been linked to fatigue - causing people to lose focus and cast their minds away.

And iron deficiencies are a global health problem of 'epidemic proportions', according to the World Health Organization.

Not only is it the most common deficiency across the planet, it is the most frequent cause of anaemia - which increases the risk of heart failure.