British Postage Service Honors David Bowie with 10 Commemorative Stamps
British Postage Service Honors David Bowie with 10 Commemorative Stamps
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance British Postage Service Honors David Bowie with 10 Commemorative Stamps  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The British postal service is commemorating late rock icon David Bowie by issuing a limited-edition run of 10 postage stamps featuring covers of the late singer's albums and images from his tours. One year after the British rocker's shocking death at age 69, the Royal Mail has unveiled stamps featuring the art from such landmark albums as , , , , and Bowie's final work, last year's , as well as four of his tours. Royal Mail announce tribute to David Bowie with 10 Special Stamps. Pre-order: https://t.co/OJLx8FNHho Press Release: https://t.co/QnDxrWzUM9  pic.twitter.com/Dmxe9K6yU1  "For five decades David Bowie was at the forefront of contemporary culture, and has influenced successive generations of musicians, artists, designers and writers,” said Philip Parker, the Royal Mail’s stamp strategy manager, in a press release. “Royal Mail’s stamp issue celebrates this unique figure and some of his many celebrated personas.” The honor comes after similar special runs dedicated to British rock royalty, including Pink Floyd stamps in 2015 and the Beatles in 2010. You can order the stamps, which will be released on March 14, here . . @RoyalMailStamps are issuing @DavidBowieReal stamps pic.twitter.com/jtDlSzFCTl    FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The British postal service is commemorating late rock icon David Bowie by issuing a limited-edition run of 10 postage stamps featuring covers of the late singer's albums and images from his tours. One year after the British rocker's shocking death at age 69, the Royal Mail has unveiled stamps featuring the art from such landmark albums as Hunky Dory, Aladdin Sane, Heroes, Let's Dance, Earthling and Bowie's final work, last year's Blackstar, as well as four of his tours.

Royal Mail announce tribute to David Bowie with 10 Special Stamps. Pre-order: https://t.co/OJLx8FNHho Press Release: https://t.co/QnDxrWzUM9 pic.twitter.com/Dmxe9K6yU1 — David Bowie Official (@DavidBowieReal) January 25, 2017

"For five decades David Bowie was at the forefront of contemporary culture, and has influenced successive generations of musicians, artists, designers and writers,” said Philip Parker, the Royal Mail’s stamp strategy manager, in a press release. “Royal Mail’s stamp issue celebrates this unique figure and some of his many celebrated personas.” The honor comes after similar special runs dedicated to British rock royalty, including Pink Floyd stamps in 2015 and the Beatles in 2010. You can order the stamps, which will be released on March 14, here.