6 Smart Ideas To Retire Rich
6 Smart Ideas To Retire Rich
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock If you are planning to retire in the next few years, then it’s never too early to start planning. Here are 6 top ways to enjoy a rich retirement: If you’re thinking of downsizing, selling your home and moving, then you should consider relocating to a state with no state income tax. Currently, there are nine states with no state income tax: Alaska Florida New Hampshire Nevada South Dakota Tennessee Texas Washington Wyoming New Hampshire and Tennessee, however, tax dividends and income from investments. Be sure to check for other taxes such as property taxes and sales tax, for example, that might be levied in lieu of state income taxes. According to CCH, the Tax Foundation and Vertex Research, there are 12 states that do not tax Social Security or pension income: Alabama Alaska Florida Mississippi Nevada New Hampshire Pennsylvania South Dakota Tennessee Texas Washington Wyoming    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you are planning to retire in the next few years, then it’s never too early to start planning.

Here are 6 top ways to enjoy a rich retirement:

1. Move to a state with no state income tax

If you’re thinking of downsizing, selling your home and moving, then you should consider relocating to a state with no state income tax.

Currently, there are nine states with no state income tax:

Alaska Florida New Hampshire Nevada South Dakota Tennessee Texas Washington Wyoming

New Hampshire and Tennessee, however, tax dividends and income from investments.

Be sure to check for other taxes such as property taxes and sales tax, for example, that might be levied in lieu of state income taxes.

2. Move to a state with no tax on Social Security or pension income

According to CCH, the Tax Foundation and Vertex Research, there are 12 states that do not tax Social Security or pension income: