‘T2 Trainspotting’: The Early Reviews
‘T2 Trainspotting’: The Early Reviews
LONDON — Twenty-one years after the movie “ Trainspotting ” gave the world a glimpse into Edinburgh’s seedy, heroin-filled underbelly, the franchise is back on the map with “T2 Trainspotting.” Directed, like the original, by Danny Boyle , and starring several members of the original cast, “T2” is getting a wide release in Britain this week before being rolled out across Europe. It reaches the United States on March 17. The sequel checks in with the unmoored but largely lovable characters from the first movie as they face middle age. Ewan McGregor is back as the lead character, Renton, perhaps best remembered for his visit in the first film to the “Worst Toilet in Scotland.” Robert Carlyle appears as Begbie, who starts brawls with almost anyone who crosses his path; Ewen Bremner returns as the dimwitted Spud, who, in the first movie, has a memorable job interview while high on speed; and Jonny Lee Miller is back as Sick Boy, now known as Simon. Here’s a roundup of the early reviews. Let’s start with the Scottish papers. The Glasgow-based Herald gave the movie among the best reviews of any publication: If Danny Boyle’s original “Trainspotting” is rightly regarded as one of the seminal British films of the ’90s, which continues to hold up well today, then it’s high praise indeed to say that this belated follow-up is every bit as good — maybe even better. “T2” doesn’t just recapture the relentlessly addictive energy of the first film, complete with profane language, outrageous sex and drug scenes and horrific bouts of violence, it displays a greater maturity too; one that lends it unexpected poignancy to match its more bravura moments. The Scotsman was a little less appreciative. Calling into question the cultural impact of the original movie, the critic Alistair Harkness said that crucial moments in the sequel felt forced: Boyle’s frenetic, collagelike directing style, particularly as he reintroduces us to the characters amid a torrent of cocaine, vomit and violence also gives the film a trying-too-hard feel and even though some of it does jolt “T2” to life, the cast doesn’t always have the emotional range to make it cohere. Elsewhere in Britain, in The Times of London, Kate Muir praised the sequel’s enduring addled energy and said there was something brooding in the latest installment: Yes, Ewan McGregor is back as Renton, racing through the streets of Edinburgh, roaring a new anthem of despair. Except 20 years later, he’s middle-aged. And on a tram. The manic energy of the original 1996 film has sporadic outbreaks in “T2 Trainspotting,” but director Danny Boyle is in a more melancholy mood and the story is freighted with self-referential nostalgia and flashbacks to the early days. The Guardian ’s Peter Bradshaw said the movie stacked up favorably against the original and said that “T2” took a powerful and darkly funny look at the perils of aging, with a different kind of shock factor from the original. In that film, I often hid my head in my hands, unable to watch scenes about dead babies and diving into gruesome lavatories. Now it’s the sight of desolate men’s faces that made me want to look away: stunned by the realization that their lives are coming to an end. The Independent was also enthusiastic. In a five-star review, Geoffrey Macnab wrote: What’s so impressive about T2 is how skilfully it manages to stay true to the spirit of the original while acknowledging just how much has changed in the intervening years. Boyle’s achievement is to have made a wildly invigorating and enjoyable film about subject matter which is often so dark. A BBC critic, Nicholas Barber, had a more mixed reaction, and proffered, like some others, that the movie’s nostalgia bordered on the treacly. “T2 Trainspotting,” to use its perplexing title, is slower and creakier than “Trainspotting.” It’s not as good-looking, it’s more conventional, and it’s prone to getting maudlin about times gone by. Depending on how forgiving you are — and how old you are — you’ll either be impressed that it has incorporated the theme of aging into its milder tone and gentler pacing, or you’ll be disappointed that it isn’t the white-knuckle roller coaster ride that “Trainspotting” was. Some American publications have weighed in as well. The Hollywood Reporter had a mixed take on the movie. Its reviewer, Neil Young, said the movie eventually descended into “schmaltz,” and, like some other critics, he argued that the female characters seemed like an afterthought: Women are very much on the sidelines, even more so than in “Trainspotting”: The terrific Shirley Henderson has insultingly little to do as Spud’s long-suffering girlfriend Gail, while “Boardwalk Empire’s” Kelly Macdonald — whose sparklingly auspicious acting debut back in 1996 was as Renton’s wise-beyond-her-years schoolgirl girlfriend Diane — pops up for a one-scene, two-minute cameo (which nevertheless somehow nabs her fifth billing). Writing for The Wrap, Jason Solomons said that the movie “ doesn’t feel wiser, just wearier ” than its predecessor. He objected in particular to the fact that the new movie did not appear to tap into the mood of the moment, as the original did. While the first film somehow captured, defined and shaped the mid-’90s zeitgeist of Brit-pop and dance culture, of New Labour and a new wave of British cinema, you can’t help feel that “T2 Trainspotting” misses any such opportunity, particularly as it was shooting during the Brexit vote. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

LONDON — Twenty-one years after the movie “Trainspotting” gave the world a glimpse into Edinburgh’s seedy, heroin-filled underbelly, the franchise is back on the map with “T2 Trainspotting.” Directed, like the original, by Danny Boyle, and starring several members of the original cast, “T2” is getting a wide release in Britain this week before being rolled out across Europe. It reaches the United States on March 17.

The sequel checks in with the unmoored but largely lovable characters from the first movie as they face middle age. Ewan McGregor is back as the lead character, Renton, perhaps best remembered for his visit in the first film to the “Worst Toilet in Scotland.” Robert Carlyle appears as Begbie, who starts brawls with almost anyone who crosses his path; Ewen Bremner returns as the dimwitted Spud, who, in the first movie, has a memorable job interview while high on speed; and Jonny Lee Miller is back as Sick Boy, now known as Simon.

Here’s a roundup of the early reviews.

Let’s start with the Scottish papers. The Glasgow-based Herald gave the movie among the best reviews of any publication:

If Danny Boyle’s original “Trainspotting” is rightly regarded as one of the seminal British films of the ’90s, which continues to hold up well today, then it’s high praise indeed to say that this belated follow-up is every bit as good — maybe even better. “T2” doesn’t just recapture the relentlessly addictive energy of the first film, complete with profane language, outrageous sex and drug scenes and horrific bouts of violence, it displays a greater maturity too; one that lends it unexpected poignancy to match its more bravura moments.

The Scotsman was a little less appreciative. Calling into question the cultural impact of the original movie, the critic Alistair Harkness said that crucial moments in the sequel felt forced:

Boyle’s frenetic, collagelike directing style, particularly as he reintroduces us to the characters amid a torrent of cocaine, vomit and violence also gives the film a trying-too-hard feel and even though some of it does jolt “T2” to life, the cast doesn’t always have the emotional range to make it cohere.

Elsewhere in Britain, in The Times of London, Kate Muir praised the sequel’s enduring addled energy and said there was something brooding in the latest installment:

Yes, Ewan McGregor is back as Renton, racing through the streets of Edinburgh, roaring a new anthem of despair. Except 20 years later, he’s middle-aged. And on a tram. The manic energy of the original 1996 film has sporadic outbreaks in “T2 Trainspotting,” but director Danny Boyle is in a more melancholy mood and the story is freighted with self-referential nostalgia and flashbacks to the early days.

The Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw said the movie stacked up favorably against the original and said that “T2” took a powerful and darkly funny look at the perils of aging, with a different kind of shock factor from the original.

In that film, I often hid my head in my hands, unable to watch scenes about dead babies and diving into gruesome lavatories. Now it’s the sight of desolate men’s faces that made me want to look away: stunned by the realization that their lives are coming to an end.

The Independent was also enthusiastic. In a five-star review, Geoffrey Macnab wrote:

What’s so impressive about T2 is how skilfully it manages to stay true to the spirit of the original while acknowledging just how much has changed in the intervening years. Boyle’s achievement is to have made a wildly invigorating and enjoyable film about subject matter which is often so dark.

A BBC critic, Nicholas Barber, had a more mixed reaction, and proffered, like some others, that the movie’s nostalgia bordered on the treacly.

“T2 Trainspotting,” to use its perplexing title, is slower and creakier than “Trainspotting.” It’s not as good-looking, it’s more conventional, and it’s prone to getting maudlin about times gone by. Depending on how forgiving you are — and how old you are — you’ll either be impressed that it has incorporated the theme of aging into its milder tone and gentler pacing, or you’ll be disappointed that it isn’t the white-knuckle roller coaster ride that “Trainspotting” was.

Some American publications have weighed in as well. The Hollywood Reporter had a mixed take on the movie. Its reviewer, Neil Young, said the movie eventually descended into “schmaltz,” and, like some other critics, he argued that the female characters seemed like an afterthought:

Women are very much on the sidelines, even more so than in “Trainspotting”: The terrific Shirley Henderson has insultingly little to do as Spud’s long-suffering girlfriend Gail, while “Boardwalk Empire’s” Kelly Macdonald — whose sparklingly auspicious acting debut back in 1996 was as Renton’s wise-beyond-her-years schoolgirl girlfriend Diane — pops up for a one-scene, two-minute cameo (which nevertheless somehow nabs her fifth billing).

Writing for The Wrap, Jason Solomons said that the movie “doesn’t feel wiser, just wearier” than its predecessor. He objected in particular to the fact that the new movie did not appear to tap into the mood of the moment, as the original did.