SNEAK PEEK: President Trump Sits Down with Hannity at White House

SNEAK PEEK: President Trump Sits Down with Hannity at White House Watch the full interview tonight at 10pm ET on "Hannity." // // President Donald Trump discussed the fight against ISIS, replacing Obamacare, his Supreme Court nominee and much more in an interview with Sean Hannity in the White House. In a cable exclusive that will air , Trump described ISIS as "sneaky rats" who target innocent people. "When you're fighting Germany and they had their uniforms, and Japan and they had their uniforms and they had their flags on the plane, and the whole thing. We are fighting sneaky rats right now that are sick and demented. And we're going to win," he said. When asked about repealing and replacing Obamacare, Trump said that President Barack Obama told him that he would support the effort if he feels a "better plan" is put forth. "Obamacare doesn't work. It doesn't work. And President Obama told me something that was, I thought, terrific. And I believe he means it. He said, if you came up with a better plan, and you could get a better plan approved, he would support it. And I actually believe he means it," said Trump, adding that he believes the replacement will be "a lot less expensive." Trump also took aim at the media, bringing up the false report that he had removed a bust of Martin Luther King Jr. from the Oval Office. "They're not saying the bust is taken out, what they're saying is I'm a racist. That's what they're saying. That's a very serious charge," said Trump. The Time magazine reporter who made the error quickly apologized. The president also said he has "pretty much" made up his mind about his Supreme Court nominee, which he said will be announced next Thursday. Watch the full "Hannity" interview at on Fox News Channel!

President Donald Trump discussed the fight against ISIS, replacing Obamacare, his Supreme Court nominee and much more in an interview with Sean Hannity in the White House.

In a cable exclusive that will air tonight at 10:00pm ET, Trump described ISIS as "sneaky rats" who target innocent people.

"When you're fighting Germany and they had their uniforms, and Japan and they had their uniforms and they had their flags on the plane, and the whole thing. We are fighting sneaky rats right now that are sick and demented. And we're going to win," he said.

When asked about repealing and replacing Obamacare, Trump said that President Barack Obama told him that he would support the effort if he feels a "better plan" is put forth.

"Obamacare doesn't work. It doesn't work. And President Obama told me something that was, I thought, terrific. And I believe he means it. He said, if you came up with a better plan, and you could get a better plan approved, he would support it. And I actually believe he means it," said Trump, adding that he believes the replacement will be "a lot less expensive."

Trump Expected to Ban Syrian Refugees Indefinitely in New Exec. Orders

Priebus: Trump's Goal Is to Be the 'President of the American Worker'

ObamaCare Architect: 'Americans Don't Understand What It Has Done for Them'

Trump also took aim at the media, bringing up the false report that he had removed a bust of Martin Luther King Jr. from the Oval Office.

"They're not saying the bust is taken out, what they're saying is I'm a racist. That's what they're saying. That's a very serious charge," said Trump.

The Time magazine reporter who made the error quickly apologized.

The president also said he has "pretty much" made up his mind about his Supreme Court nominee, which he said will be announced next Thursday.

Watch the full "Hannity" interview at 10:00pm ET TONIGHT on Fox News Channel!

O'Reilly: Trump Fulfilling Campaign Promises With 'Big Crackdown' on Illegal Immigration

WATCH: A Closer Look at Trump's Supreme Court Nominee Candidates

Spicer: Media's Default Reaction to WH Statements Is 'You're Lying'