François Fillon angrily rejects accusations that he paid his British wife hundreds of thousands of euros for fake parliamentary job
François Fillon angrily rejects accusations that he paid his British wife hundreds of thousands of euros for fake parliamentary job
rançois Fillon has angrily rejected accusations that he paid his British wife hundreds of thousands of euros for a fake parliamentary job and said he had no intention of pulling out of the race for the French presidency. “I will sue any media that says my wife had a fictitious job,” the conservative former prime minister said on an evening TV news show a day after it was alleged his wife, Penelope, had claimed around €600,000 of taxpayers’ money over a period of several years for doing nothing. Mr Fillon, who is tipped to win the presidential election this spring, said he had always been “transparent” about his wife’s job and would provide proof to prosecutors who have launched a probe into the claims made by the satirical weekly paper Le Canard Enchainé. He said he was the victim of an “abject” plot to derail his bid for the presidency, which most polls say will see him face off against Front National leader Marine le Pen in the second and last round of voting in May. “I respect the law,”” Mr Fillon, a devout Catholic who has pitched himself to voters as an honest and morally irreproachable candidate, told TF1 news. “There was no transgression. There are dozens of parliamentarians who employ family members,” he said, noting that under French law this is entirely legal but conceding that the practice was banned in other countries and might need reconsideration in France. r Fillon, 62, who is standing as a candidate for Les Républicains party, said his wife’s work included writing press reviews, proof-reading his speeches and meeting people on his behalf. He also revealed that two of his adult children had done  work for him at some point when he was a senator. r Fillon’s poll ratings had dropped slightly in recent weeks - before Wednesday’s allegations emerged - and he had been hoping a big rally in Paris this weekend would inject fresh life into his campaign. No polls have been published since the report in Le Canard Enchaine, but the allegations of financial impropriety are likely to dent what until now had widely seen as a fairly smooth trajectory towards the Elysée. Le Canard Enchaine reported that Mrs Fillon had been paid around €600,000 over a period of several years of employment as a parliamentary assistant to her husband and then to his replacement at the National Assembly, and also for work at a cultural journal.  he paper said it had tried and failed to find any evidence that she had ever actually done any work at the parliament. Last October Mrs Fillon told Le Bien Public newspaper: "Up to now, I have never been involved in the political life of my husband." Le Canard Enchainé quoted the author of an authorised biography of Mr Fillon as saying that in the many interviews she conducted with the politician and his wife, she had never heard or been told that Mrs Fillon had a job. The image conveyed by Mrs Fillon's own rare public comments and in celebrity magazines is of a woman leading a country life in the couple’s 12th-century chateau and keeping home for her family. The allegations of her allegedly fictitious job emerged when Mr Fillon was in Bordeaux visiting Alain Juppé, another former prime minister, who was convicted over use of public funds for fake jobs more than 10 years ago in a case that also led to the conviction of former president Jacques Chirac.

François Fillon has angrily rejected accusations that he paid his British wife hundreds of thousands of euros for a fake parliamentary job and said he had no intention of pulling out of the race for the French presidency.

“I will sue any media that says my wife had a fictitious job,” the conservative former prime minister said on an evening TV news show a day after it was alleged his wife, Penelope, had claimed around €600,000 of taxpayers’ money over a period of several years for doing nothing.

Mr Fillon, who is tipped to win the presidential election this spring, said he had always been “transparent” about his wife’s job and would provide proof to prosecutors who have launched a probe into the claims made by the satirical weekly paper Le Canard Enchainé.

He said he was the victim of an “abject” plot to derail his bid for the presidency, which most polls say will see him face off against Front National leader Marine le Pen in the second and last round of voting in May.