Labour is split by Brexit and divorced from its own voters
Labour is split by Brexit and divorced from its own voters
abour faces a tough electoral test in the Stoke-on-Trent Central by-election, made all the harder by its choice of candidate. Stoke voted nearly 70 per cent for Leave. Gareth Snell, Labour’s hopeful, has described Brexit as a “massive pile” of excrement. Ukip must be rubbing its hands with glee, while Mr Corbyn, described by Mr Snell as an “IRA supporting friend of Hamas”, ought to be worried. Labour’s institutional crisis continues, exacerbated by Europe. n Westminster, the opposition leader has decided to impose a three-line whip on his MPs to force them to support the Government’s Article 50 Bill. In the Labour leader’s defence, if he backs Article 50 then he will outrage many Labour MPs, but if he blocks Article 50 then he will outrage many Labour voters, especially those in Stoke. Brexit has forced him to address an issue over which the Left is irreconcilably split, and this picture of division is global. Hillary Clinton faced a bitter battle with Bernie Sanders in the US elections; France’s socialists will endure the last round of a bruising presidential primary this Sunday. ne thing that unites all wings of the Left – including Mr Snell and Mr Corbyn – is dislocation from the people they claim to represent, which is what Ukip and the Tories hope to capitalise upon. On immigration, energy, foreign policy and more, the values of the establishment Left and the working class are at odds. The discrediting of Labour deprives the country of serious opposition, but it also offers the Right an opportunity – a chance to show how democratic capitalism can transform communities that have, for too long, been badly and falsely represented by the Left.

Your support makes a big difference

In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by advertising.

Please consider supporting us by turning off your ad blocker.

Just a couple of clicks will make a big difference.

Thank you.