Even Before Trump Acts on Immigration, New Yorkers Protest
Even Before Trump Acts on Immigration, New Yorkers Protest
President Trump had yet to act on plans to stem the flow of refugees and Muslims into the United States, but the nearly 1,000 New Yorkers gathered in Washington Square Park on Wednesday evening wasted no time in protesting whatever was next. Earlier, Mr. Trump had issued executive orders to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico and to withhold federal money from so- called sanctuary cities , which do not cooperate with federal immigration officials in detaining undocumented immigrants who have been arrested on charges unrelated to their immigration status. The crowd made its displeasure on all fronts known: “No ban, no wall,” the protesters cried. And then they engaged in a call and response with an Arabic greeting: “Peace be unto you. And unto you, peace.” The instant opposition extended to New York’s City Hall and the chambers of the State Assembly in Albany. Assemblyman Francisco P. Moya, a Democrat of Queens, proposed a bill Wednesday night that would limit the state’s cooperation with the police in assisting immigration officers who did not have a judge’s warrant to detain immigrants accused of a crime. Among its many provisions, Mr. Trump’s order called for state and local law enforcement agencies to “ perform the functions of an immigration officer ” in detaining and potentially deporting undocumented immigrants. Mr. Moya’s bill, which had the backing of other Assembly members, would prohibit law enforcement agents from stopping, questioning, investigating or arresting an individual on the basis of a suspected immigration violation. “No state or local law enforcement agency, or agent thereof, shall perform the function of or be cross-designated as a federal immigration officer,” the bill states. A draft of Mr. Trump’s next order , which remained unsigned on Thursday, included an indefinite ban on Syrian refugees and a temporary ban on immigrants coming from Muslim countries with known terrorist ties. The Council on American-Islamic Relations, the country’s largest Muslim civil liberties organization, sponsored the protest on Wednesday. Advertisement “Muslim-Americans have been attacked over and over again,” said Afaf Nasher, executive director of CAIR New York. “But we are resilient and strong, and we will come back with more protests, until we have our civil rights. Because this is what America is supposed to be.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Elected officials and immigrant advocates said Mr. Trump’s actions would make it harder for law enforcement to maintain public safety. Mohammad Razvi, the founder and director of the Council of Peoples Organization , a group that serves Muslims, Arabs and South Asians, helped to found a Muslim advisory board to the F.B.I. He works with the New York Police Department, and since the Sept. 11 attacks, he has encouraged his community to report crimes and to not fear the police. “These orders are really putting a gray cloud over the hard work in building these relationships and encouraging the community to be part of mainstream America,” Mr. Razvi said on Thursday. “What this administration is emphasizing is dividing the country,” he added. “Our fellow Americans are going to view these Muslims as the enemy, when this is not the case.” Mr. Razvi’s bustling storefront office, which offers English classes all day, legal counseling and youth programs, sits next to a mosque in Midwood. He said that on Wednesday he was continuously stopped by concerned citizens wondering what would happen to them. Some, he said, worried that family members coming from certain countries would be denied visas. And he said neighborhood business owners reported fewer people shopping. “The uncertainty is what’s really causing fear,” he said. Emily Palmer contributed reporting. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

President Trump had yet to act on plans to stem the flow of refugees and Muslims into the United States, but the nearly 1,000 New Yorkers gathered in Washington Square Park on Wednesday evening wasted no time in protesting whatever was next.

Earlier, Mr. Trump had issued executive orders to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico and to withhold federal money from so-called sanctuary cities, which do not cooperate with federal immigration officials in detaining undocumented immigrants who have been arrested on charges unrelated to their immigration status. The crowd made its displeasure on all fronts known: “No ban, no wall,” the protesters cried. And then they engaged in a call and response with an Arabic greeting: “Peace be unto you. And unto you, peace.”

The instant opposition extended to New York’s City Hall and the chambers of the State Assembly in Albany.

Assemblyman Francisco P. Moya, a Democrat of Queens, proposed a bill Wednesday night that would limit the state’s cooperation with the police in assisting immigration officers who did not have a judge’s warrant to detain immigrants accused of a crime.

Among its many provisions, Mr. Trump’s order called for state and local law enforcement agencies to “perform the functions of an immigration officer” in detaining and potentially deporting undocumented immigrants. Mr. Moya’s bill, which had the backing of other Assembly members, would prohibit law enforcement agents from stopping, questioning, investigating or arresting an individual on the basis of a suspected immigration violation. “No state or local law enforcement agency, or agent thereof, shall perform the function of or be cross-designated as a federal immigration officer,” the bill states.

A draft of Mr. Trump’s next order, which remained unsigned on Thursday, included an indefinite ban on Syrian refugees and a temporary ban on immigrants coming from Muslim countries with known terrorist ties.

The Council on American-Islamic Relations, the country’s largest Muslim civil liberties organization, sponsored the protest on Wednesday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Muslim-Americans have been attacked over and over again,” said Afaf Nasher, executive director of CAIR New York. “But we are resilient and strong, and we will come back with more protests, until we have our civil rights. Because this is what America is supposed to be.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Elected officials and immigrant advocates said Mr. Trump’s actions would make it harder for law enforcement to maintain public safety.

Mohammad Razvi, the founder and director of the Council of Peoples Organization, a group that serves Muslims, Arabs and South Asians, helped to found a Muslim advisory board to the F.B.I. He works with the New York Police Department, and since the Sept. 11 attacks, he has encouraged his community to report crimes and to not fear the police.

“These orders are really putting a gray cloud over the hard work in building these relationships and encouraging the community to be part of mainstream America,” Mr. Razvi said on Thursday.

“What this administration is emphasizing is dividing the country,” he added. “Our fellow Americans are going to view these Muslims as the enemy, when this is not the case.”

Mr. Razvi’s bustling storefront office, which offers English classes all day, legal counseling and youth programs, sits next to a mosque in Midwood. He said that on Wednesday he was continuously stopped by concerned citizens wondering what would happen to them. Some, he said, worried that family members coming from certain countries would be denied visas. And he said neighborhood business owners reported fewer people shopping.

“The uncertainty is what’s really causing fear,” he said.