Your Food Cravings Will Reveal Which Pop Diva You Are
Your Food Cravings Will Reveal Which Pop Diva You Are
Your Food Cravings Will Reveal Which Pop Diva You Are  You got:
								
								Sia  You’re a stable and dependable person who works well with others. You can be a bit shy, and don’t particularly like to be in the spotlight even though you often end up there anyway.     You got:
								
								Solange  You’re extremely cool and have a unique style, but sometimes you get ignored because flashy, more popular people get more attention. But that doesn’t matter because you care more about the people who LOVE you than the ones who just like you.     You got:
								
								Lady Gaga  You are a true individual, and nothing makes you happier than art and creativity. Some people might think you’re weird, but you know in your heart that weird is always better than being normal and dull.     You got:
								
								Ariana Grande  You are a star, and you know it. You’re incredibly proud of your talents and assured in your greatness, and will not stand for anything less than the best in life. Sometimes you get frustrated because the world isn’t up to your high standards, but how could it be?     You got:
								
								Mariah Carey  You’re incredibly sweet and have an upbeat, bubbly demeanor. You love the finer things in life, and don’t care if people think you’re a bit indulgent. You have a major romantic streak, and probably really, really love Christmas.     You got:
								
								Lana Del Rey  You have an arty sensibility and a taste for melodrama. You always do everything your way, and don’t care about fitting in. You’re very attracted to glamour, especially when it’s a bit sordid.     You got:
								
								Beyoncé  You have worked extremely hard your entire life to be as flawless as you are today. Bow down, bitches.     You got:
								
								Taylor Swift  You’re a perfectionist, and you refuse to settle for anything but the best in both your professional and personal life. You believe in true love, but your eagerness to throw yourself wholeheartedly into new relationships means you get your heart broken very often.     You got:
								
								Britney Spears  You have a sunny, upbeat disposition, and the kind of charisma that captivates everyone around you. You often feel a need to prove that you’re more mature and sophisticated than many people assume you are.     You got:
								
								Rihanna  You’re a rebel and a bit of a troublemaker. Sometimes people accuse you of making crazy decisions, but you don’t really care what they think.     You got:
								
								Katy Perry  You’re a bit conventional, but very fun. You’ve got a lot of friends, and you’re the type of person who always seems to be in a serious relationship.     You got:
								
								Adele  You’re an introvert and generally live a quiet, private life, but if you’re going through a messy break up, we’re ALL going to hear about it.    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   Ed Sheeran's "Castle On The Hill" Music Video...    Your Food Cravings Will Reveal Which Pop Diva You Are...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

You got: Sia You’re a stable and dependable person who works well with others. You can be a bit shy, and don’t particularly like to be in the spotlight even though you often end up there anyway. Getty

You got: Solange You’re extremely cool and have a unique style, but sometimes you get ignored because flashy, more popular people get more attention. But that doesn’t matter because you care more about the people who LOVE you than the ones who just like you. Getty

You got: Lady Gaga You are a true individual, and nothing makes you happier than art and creativity. Some people might think you’re weird, but you know in your heart that weird is always better than being normal and dull. Getty

You got: Ariana Grande You are a star, and you know it. You’re incredibly proud of your talents and assured in your greatness, and will not stand for anything less than the best in life. Sometimes you get frustrated because the world isn’t up to your high standards, but how could it be? Getty

You got: Mariah Carey You’re incredibly sweet and have an upbeat, bubbly demeanor. You love the finer things in life, and don’t care if people think you’re a bit indulgent. You have a major romantic streak, and probably really, really love Christmas. Getty

You got: Lana Del Rey You have an arty sensibility and a taste for melodrama. You always do everything your way, and don’t care about fitting in. You’re very attracted to glamour, especially when it’s a bit sordid. Getty

You got: Beyoncé You have worked extremely hard your entire life to be as flawless as you are today. Bow down, bitches. Getty

You got: Taylor Swift You’re a perfectionist, and you refuse to settle for anything but the best in both your professional and personal life. You believe in true love, but your eagerness to throw yourself wholeheartedly into new relationships means you get your heart broken very often. Getty

You got: Britney Spears You have a sunny, upbeat disposition, and the kind of charisma that captivates everyone around you. You often feel a need to prove that you’re more mature and sophisticated than many people assume you are. Getty

You got: Rihanna You’re a rebel and a bit of a troublemaker. Sometimes people accuse you of making crazy decisions, but you don’t really care what they think. Getty

You got: Katy Perry You’re a bit conventional, but very fun. You’ve got a lot of friends, and you’re the type of person who always seems to be in a serious relationship. Getty