It’s ‘ridiculous’ to say the Defense Department is trolling Trump on Twitter, Pentagon says

The suggestion that the Defense Department has posted social media messages as a form of protest to President Trump is “ridiculous,” a Pentagon spokesman said Thursday. Navy Capt. Jeff Davis told reporters that recent messages posted on the Defense Department Twitter page are nothing out of the ordinary, and part of steady communication with the general public, active-duty troops and veterans. The question came after the Defense Department tweeted a story Wednesday about a former Iraqi refugee who enlisted in the Marine Corps after reports emerged that Trump, who was sworn in Friday, was considering an executive order seeking to halt refugee resettlement in the United States. From refugee to #Marine . @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the doorstep of those who cast his family out. https://t.co/oSXWGrzsL7  pic.twitter.com/UVlWsaESic — U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) January 25, 2017 The tweet linked to a Defense Department news release that shared the story of Cpl. Ali J. Mohammed, who grew up in Baghdad, and moved to the United States at 16 years old after his family received numerous threats for supporting U.S. policies. He joined the Marines in November 2014. “If you look at this, this isn’t some unique thing,” Davis said. “If you look at this, we are tweeting from the Department of Defense account a dozen or more times a day.” The Defense Department has released stories previously about Iraqis who joined the U.S. military. In one example, the Marine Corps published a story Sept. 30 about a Marine, Pfc. Amanda Issa, whose family fled the city of Mosul in 2011 and eventually settled in Michigan. The Defense Department tweet Wednesday drew widespread attention on social media: DoD trolling Trump? Tweet about Iraqi refugee turned Marine on day Trump to announce refugee ban -Underground https://t.co/agtt6489l8 — Dawna (@onecaliberal) January 25, 2017 DoD tweets about an immigrant Marine today. Another sign of resistance within federal government? https://t.co/2wEKSmtbtw  #resist — Tim Woody (@icybikes) January 25, 2017 https://twitter.com/shanedingman/status/824270500629254144 The attention followed another Defense Department tweet Monday that warned followers that social media can provide hints on a person’s mental health. Social media postings sometimes provide an important window into a person’s #mentalhealth . Know what to look for. https://t.co/B0tPAHwjVK  pic.twitter.com/AbXrw2QhQd — U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) January 23, 2017 Some followers questioned whether that was posted in response to Trump, who tweets often. @DeptofDefense me reading this knowing it's the ill Trump subtweet. pic.twitter.com/SsS3iAdVxm — Erick Fernandez (@ErickFernandez) January 23, 2017 The @DeptofDefense can't possibly be trolling the Commander In Chief, can it? https://t.co/LbUVvfdaCN — Saul Tannenbaum (@stannenb) January 23, 2017 The tweet included a link to a Defense Department page focused on preventing suicide, a longterm problem among active-duty service members and veterans. Davis said Thursday that the tweet about mental health was “simply about teaching people the warning signs about suicide, and that was misinterpreted and taken and unfortunately… preyed upon by the trolls of the Internet.” “It’s really unfortunate, because it’s a serious message,” Davis said. The tweets were sent as the Trump administration restricted the authorization for other agencies to release information to the public. They also came as other agencies, such as Badlands National Park, tweeted messages about climate change that were construed by some followers as a response to Trump questioning its existence. The National Parks Service also retweeted images that showed the size of of Trump’s inauguration day in an unflattering light, prompting a temporary shutdown of social media accounts at the Department of Interior.  A running list of all the possible subtweets of President Trump from government accounts Interior Department reactivates Twitter accounts after temporary shutdown following inauguration



President Trump departs the White House aboard Marine One on January, 26, 2017, in Washington, DC. (Photo by Bill O’Leary/The Washington Post)

The suggestion that the Defense Department has posted social media messages as a form of protest to President Trump is “ridiculous,” a Pentagon spokesman said Thursday.

Navy Capt. Jeff Davis told reporters that recent messages posted on the Defense Department Twitter page are nothing out of the ordinary, and part of steady communication with the general public, active-duty troops and veterans. The question came after the Defense Department tweeted a story Wednesday about a former Iraqi refugee who enlisted in the Marine Corps after reports emerged that Trump, who was sworn in Friday, was considering an executive order seeking to halt refugee resettlement in the United States.



From refugee to #Marine. @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the doorstep of those who cast his family out.https://t.co/oSXWGrzsL7 pic.twitter.com/UVlWsaESic — U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) January 25, 2017

The tweet linked to a Defense Department news release that shared the story of Cpl. Ali J. Mohammed, who grew up in Baghdad, and moved to the United States at 16 years old after his family received numerous threats for supporting U.S. policies. He joined the Marines in November 2014.

“If you look at this, this isn’t some unique thing,” Davis said. “If you look at this, we are tweeting from the Department of Defense account a dozen or more times a day.”

The Defense Department has released stories previously about Iraqis who joined the U.S. military. In one example, the Marine Corps published a story Sept. 30 about a Marine, Pfc. Amanda Issa, whose family fled the city of Mosul in 2011 and eventually settled in Michigan.

The Defense Department tweet Wednesday drew widespread attention on social media:

DoD trolling Trump? Tweet about Iraqi refugee turned Marine on day Trump to announce refugee ban -Underground https://t.co/agtt6489l8 — Dawna (@onecaliberal) January 25, 2017

DoD tweets about an immigrant Marine today. Another sign of resistance within federal government? https://t.co/2wEKSmtbtw #resist — Tim Woody (@icybikes) January 25, 2017

https://twitter.com/shanedingman/status/824270500629254144

The attention followed another Defense Department tweet Monday that warned followers that social media can provide hints on a person’s mental health.

Social media postings sometimes provide an important window into a person’s #mentalhealth. Know what to look for. https://t.co/B0tPAHwjVK pic.twitter.com/AbXrw2QhQd — U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) January 23, 2017

Some followers questioned whether that was posted in response to Trump, who tweets often.

@DeptofDefense me reading this knowing it's the ill Trump subtweet. pic.twitter.com/SsS3iAdVxm — Erick Fernandez (@ErickFernandez) January 23, 2017

The @DeptofDefense can't possibly be trolling the Commander In Chief, can it? https://t.co/LbUVvfdaCN — Saul Tannenbaum (@stannenb) January 23, 2017

The tweet included a link to a Defense Department page focused on preventing suicide, a longterm problem among active-duty service members and veterans.

Davis said Thursday that the tweet about mental health was “simply about teaching people the warning signs about suicide, and that was misinterpreted and taken and unfortunately… preyed upon by the trolls of the Internet.”

“It’s really unfortunate, because it’s a serious message,” Davis said.

The tweets were sent as the Trump administration restricted the authorization for other agencies to release information to the public. They also came as other agencies, such as Badlands National Park, tweeted messages about climate change that were construed by some followers as a response to Trump questioning its existence. The National Parks Service also retweeted images that showed the size of of Trump’s inauguration day in an unflattering light, prompting a temporary shutdown of social media accounts at the Department of Interior.

Related stories:

A running list of all the possible subtweets of President Trump from government accounts



Interior Department reactivates Twitter accounts after temporary shutdown following inauguration