Cheque In Kannada Dishonoured, Customer Drags Bank To Court
Cheque In Kannada Dishonoured, Customer Drags Bank To Court
Cheque In Kannada Dishonoured, Customer Drags Bank To Court A customer has dragged ICCI bank to court after his cheque was dishonoured on grounds that the information on it was written in Kannada. Anand Diwakar Garag has filed a case, alleging lack of service, with the district consumer redressal court in Belagavi. In November, Garag presented a cheque for Rs 17,220 to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), as a premium for his insurance policy. The LIC handed the cheque over to Corporation Bank, which handles its accounts. However, when the cheque was presented to ICICI for payment, it was returned with a note "present with document". Before he filed the case, Garag sought clarification from both ICICI bank and LIC as to why his cheque had been dishonoured. However, neither furnished a satisfactory explanation. Garag told TOI that he made Hescom payment in cheques, wherein all details were filled in Kannada. "My bank told me that the reason they dishonoured my cheque was because the details were filled in Kannada. Also, in another incident that occurred after this one, ICICI bank dishonoured a cheque I had given to a private firm," he said. The consumer redressal court has issued notices to LIC, ICICI and Corporation Bank in connection with the case, which will be heard on February 28. Meanwhile this is what ICICI bank had to say about the matter:

A customer has dragged ICCI bank to court after his cheque was dishonoured on grounds that the information on it was written in Kannada.

Twitter

Anand Diwakar Garag has filed a case, alleging lack of service, with the district consumer redressal court in Belagavi. In November, Garag presented a cheque for Rs 17,220 to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), as a premium for his insurance policy.

The LIC handed the cheque over to Corporation Bank, which handles its accounts. However, when the cheque was presented to ICICI for payment, it was returned with a note "present with document".

TOI

Before he filed the case, Garag sought clarification from both ICICI bank and LIC as to why his cheque had been dishonoured. However, neither furnished a satisfactory explanation. Garag told TOI that he made Hescom payment in cheques, wherein all details were filled in Kannada.

"My bank told me that the reason they dishonoured my cheque was because the details were filled in Kannada. Also, in another incident that occurred after this one, ICICI bank dishonoured a cheque I had given to a private firm," he said.

The consumer redressal court has issued notices to LIC, ICICI and Corporation Bank in connection with the case, which will be heard on February 28.

Meanwhile this is what ICICI bank had to say about the matter:

“ICICI Bank would like to clarify that it honours cheques in all regional languages in accordance with the RBI guidelines. We regularly honour cheques written in regional languages in all states including Karnataka. We have in the prior months duly honoured a cheque of the same customer written in Kannada. Therefore, it is completely baseless and erroneous to say that we rejected a cheque on the grounds of language.



Originally published in Times of India