Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Miss Tara, Yellow Claw & Grey
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Miss Tara, Yellow Claw & Grey
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Miss Tara, Yellow Claw & Grey  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts. Canadian tech-house DJ/producer Miss Tara (real name Tara Mobayen) makes her first chart appearance, entering Top Dance/Electronic Albums (dated Feb. 4) at No. 24 with debut album The mammoth 34-track set features an eclectic collection of collaborators, including Indian singer Sonu Nigam, Terri B! and Eric Carter. A classically trained musician and fashion model, Tara has toured extensively around the world, while also holding a DJ residency at Miami's famed Nikki Beach club. Dutch DJ duo Yellow Claw (Jim Aasgier and Nils) debut at No. 35 on Dance/Mix Show Airplay with "Love & War," featuring Yade Lauren. It's the third chart hit for Claw (and the first for Lauren), who reached No. 13 in June 2016 with "Catch Me" (credited to Yellow Claw and Flux Pavilion featuring Naaz). KNHC Seattle leads in radio airplay with 41 plays for the track in the week ending Jan. 22, according to Nielsen Music. Grey grabs the Hot Shot Debut on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs with "I Miss You," featuring Bahari, the chart's top new entry at No. 25. The mostly chilled-out track marks the second and highest-peaking chart hit yet for Grey (brothers Kyle and Michael Trewartha) and the second entry for pop trio Bahari. Both Grey and Bahari charted previously with Zedd, but on different tracks: Zedd and Grey hit No. 38 with "Adrenaline" in September, while Zedd (featuring Bahari) climbed to No. 18 in May 2015 with "Addicted to a Memory." "Miss" sold 3,000 downloads in the week ending Jan. 19, also good for a No. 16 start on Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts.

Miss Tara, Let's Live!

Canadian tech-house DJ/producer Miss Tara (real name Tara Mobayen) makes her first Billboard chart appearance, entering Top Dance/Electronic Albums (dated Feb. 4) at No. 24 with debut album Let's Live! The mammoth 34-track set features an eclectic collection of collaborators, including Indian singer Sonu Nigam, Terri B! and Eric Carter. A classically trained musician and fashion model, Tara has toured extensively around the world, while also holding a DJ residency at Miami's famed Nikki Beach club.

Yellow Claw featuring Yade Lauren, "Love & War"

Dutch DJ duo Yellow Claw (Jim Aasgier and Nils) debut at No. 35 on Dance/Mix Show Airplay with "Love & War," featuring Yade Lauren. It's the third chart hit for Claw (and the first for Lauren), who reached No. 13 in June 2016 with "Catch Me" (credited to Yellow Claw and Flux Pavilion featuring Naaz). KNHC Seattle leads in radio airplay with 41 plays for the track in the week ending Jan. 22, according to Nielsen Music.

Grey featuring Bahari, "I Miss You"

Grey grabs the Hot Shot Debut on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs with "I Miss You," featuring Bahari, the chart's top new entry at No. 25. The mostly chilled-out track marks the second and highest-peaking chart hit yet for Grey (brothers Kyle and Michael Trewartha) and the second entry for pop trio Bahari. Both Grey and Bahari charted previously with Zedd, but on different tracks: Zedd and Grey hit No. 38 with "Adrenaline" in September, while Zedd (featuring Bahari) climbed to No. 18 in May 2015 with "Addicted to a Memory." "Miss" sold 3,000 downloads in the week ending Jan. 19, also good for a No. 16 start on Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales.