Doomsday Clock Moves 30 Seconds Closer To Midnight, We Are Just Two-And-A-Half Minutes Away From Apocalypse!
Doomsday Clock Has Advanced 30 Seconds, We're Just Two-And-A-Half Minutes Away From Apocalypse!
Doomsday Clock Moves 30 Seconds Closer To Midnight, We Are Just Two-And-A-Half Minutes Away From Apocalypse! It seems like 2017 is going to be one terrible year for the humankind. At least that is what some scientists feel like. So they have advanced the symbolic "doomsday clock" 30 seconds closer to midnight. On the clock unveiled on Thursday, the time is 11:57:30. Midnight on the clock signifies the end of the world as we know it. The Doomsday Clock was initiated by The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, a group of scientist who worked on the Manhattan Project, which built the first nuclear bomb. According to them, the clock “conveys how close we are to destroying our civilization with dangerous technologies of our own making.” This is also only the second time in history that the clock has come this close to midnight, the previous being in 1953, when the hydrogen bomb was first tested. The unprecedented move, this closer to "doomsday" has been blamed for a number of reasons. “This year’s Clock deliberations felt more urgent than usual…as trusted sources of information came under attack, fake news was on the rise, and words were used by a President of the United States in cavalier and often reckless ways to address the twin threats of nuclear weapons and climate change,” Rachel Bronson, the executive director and publisher of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, said in a statement. "Never before has the Bulletin decided to advance the clock largely because of the statements of a single person," they wrote. The Doomsday Clock was created in 1947. It has changed 19 times since then, ranging from two minutes to midnight in 1953 to 17 minutes before midnight in 1991. Last year, the clock remained at three minutes from midnight . It was moved to three minutes in 2015 where it was previously at five minutes to midnight.

It seems like 2017 is going to be one terrible year for the humankind. At least that is what some scientists feel like. So they have advanced the symbolic "doomsday clock" 30 seconds closer to midnight. On the clock unveiled on Thursday, the time is 11:57:30. Midnight on the clock signifies the end of the world as we know it.

Reuters

The Doomsday Clock was initiated by The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, a group of scientist who worked on the Manhattan Project, which built the first nuclear bomb.

According to them, the clock “conveys how close we are to destroying our civilization with dangerous technologies of our own making.” This is also only the second time in history that the clock has come this close to midnight, the previous being in 1953, when the hydrogen bomb was first tested.

Reuters

The unprecedented move, this closer to "doomsday" has been blamed for a number of reasons.

“This year’s Clock deliberations felt more urgent than usual…as trusted sources of information came under attack, fake news was on the rise, and words were used by a President of the United States in cavalier and often reckless ways to address the twin threats of nuclear weapons and climate change,” Rachel Bronson, the executive director and publisher of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, said in a statement.

"Never before has the Bulletin decided to advance the clock largely because of the statements of a single person," they wrote.

The Doomsday Clock was created in 1947. It has changed 19 times since then, ranging from two minutes to midnight in 1953 to 17 minutes before midnight in 1991.

Last year, the clock remained at three minutes from midnight. It was moved to three minutes in 2015 where it was previously at five minutes to midnight.