Chicago Bulls' Rajon Rondo rips Jimmy Butler, Dwyane Wade; questions their leadership
Bulls' Rondo: 'My vets wouldn't blame teammates'
Bulls' Rondo: 'My vets wouldn't blame teammates' Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Warriors raising ticket prices 15 to 25 percent Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor #NBArank Rising Stars: Who made the top 50? Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends LeBron James defies a long history of misses Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Kerr fined $25K for tirade at ref: 'I deserve it' Kobe memorabilia stolen from his high school Rodman gets 3 years' probation in freeway crash Paul Pierce on emotional day in Boston: 'I was able to give the fans one last shot' Russell Westbrook scorches the Blazers in the fourth Knicks stuck between playoff push and playing for the future Melo: Knicks' struggles, rumors 'testing my will' Vote: What's Paul Pierce's best moment at the TD Garden? Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Brian Windhorst joins SVP to offer his take on Rajon Rondo calling out his Bulls teammates in an Instagram post, saying Rondo is being a hypocrite with his comments. (1:36) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Chicago Bulls guard Rajon Rondo fired back to Jimmy Butler and Dwyane Wade one day after they called out their teammates following a loss to the Atlanta Hawks . "My vets would never go to the media. They would come to the team. ... My goal is to pass what I learned along. The young guys work. They show up. They don't deserve blame. If anything is questionable, it's the leadership," Rondo wrote on Instagram. The post included a photo of Rondo with former Boston Celtics teammates Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce .  My vets would never go to the media. They would come to the team. My vets didn't pick and choose when they wanted to bring it. They brought it every time they stepped in the gym whether it was practice or a game. They didn't take days off. My vets didn't care about their numbers. My vets played for the team. When we lost, they wouldn't blame us. They took responsibility and got in the gym. They showed the young guys what it meant to work. Even in Boston when we had the best record in the league, if we lost a game, you could hear a pin drop on the bus. They showed us the seriousness of the game. My vets didn't have an influence on the coaching staff. They couldn't change the plan because it didn't work for them. I played under one of the greatest coaches, and he held everyone accountable. It takes 1-15 to win. When you isolate everyone, you can't win consistently. I may be a lot of things, but I'm not a bad teammate. My goal is to pass what I learned along. The young guys work. They show up. They don't deserve blame. If anything is questionable, it's the leadership. A photo posted by Rajon Rondo (@rajonrondo) on Wade and Butler ripped into their team after the Bulls' loss to the Hawks on Wednesday, a game they were leading by 10 points with 3 minutes left in regulation. "I don't know what happened," Wade said. "But we continue to be in these kinds of situations and lose games like this. Everyone don't care enough. You got to care enough man. It's got to mean that much to you to want to win. And it doesn't. So I don't know what happened. I don't know how you fix it. It just doesn't mean enough to guys around here to want to win ballgames. It pisses me off, but I can't be frustrated and I can't care too much for these guys. That have to care for themselves. You got to do better. You got to do better with knowing where your shot's coming and knock them down. You got to do better with knowing film, knowing personnel. Just as a team, just got to do better, man." Wade and Butler, who combined for 73 points on the night, had a clear message they wanted to get across in their postgame comments to the media. The pair walked out of the showers together and knew exactly what they wanted to say. "M-----f----- just got to care if we win or lose," Butler said. "At the end of the day, do whatever it takes to help the team win. You play your role to the tee. Be a star in your role, man. That's how you win in this league, man. You have to embrace what this team, what this organization needs for you to do on either end of the floor. On top of everything else, just play every possession like it's your last. We don't play hard all the time. It's very disappointing whenever we don't play hard.'' Wade, the 12-time All-Star and three-time champion with Miami, took aim at the younger players, saying, "I'm 35 years old, man. I have three [NBA] championships. It shouldn't hurt me more than it hurts them. They have to want it." Rondo, who has been praised by teammates and coaches throughout the season for serving as a mentor to many players on the Bulls' roster, defended the younger players in his post. The Bulls, who fell to 23-24 after Wednesday's loss, will face Wade's former team, the Miami Heat , at home Friday night. Rondo came to Chicago with a history of clashing with coaches. Wade and Butler repeatedly defended Rondo after the veteran point guard was benched in the second half of a Dec. 30 loss to the Indiana Pacers. Wade even praised Rondo for handling the benching, which lasted five games, in a professional manner. Rondo said after his benching that he didn't get a "clear cut" message about his future with the Bulls after a Dec. 31 meeting with Bulls executives Gar Forman and John Paxson. It was a notion the Bulls' front office disagreed with, but underscored the divide between Rondo and the organization. Rondo has struggled all season on the floor averaging 6.4 points, down from a 10.7 career average. In his comments before a Jan. 11 loss to the Washington Wizards , Rondo said the role he was sold on before signing is not the same one he was asked to serve in now. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Brian Windhorst joins SVP to offer his take on Rajon Rondo calling out his Bulls teammates in an Instagram post, saying Rondo is being a hypocrite with his comments. (1:36)

Chicago Bulls guard Rajon Rondo fired back to Jimmy Butler and Dwyane Wade one day after they called out their teammates following a loss to the Atlanta Hawks.

"My vets would never go to the media. They would come to the team. ... My goal is to pass what I learned along. The young guys work. They show up. They don't deserve blame. If anything is questionable, it's the leadership," Rondo wrote on Instagram.

The post included a photo of Rondo with former Boston Celtics teammates Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce.

Wade and Butler ripped into their team after the Bulls' loss to the Hawks on Wednesday, a game they were leading by 10 points with 3 minutes left in regulation.

"I don't know what happened," Wade said. "But we continue to be in these kinds of situations and lose games like this. Everyone don't care enough. You got to care enough man. It's got to mean that much to you to want to win. And it doesn't. So I don't know what happened. I don't know how you fix it. It just doesn't mean enough to guys around here to want to win ballgames. It pisses me off, but I can't be frustrated and I can't care too much for these guys. That have to care for themselves. You got to do better. You got to do better with knowing where your shot's coming and knock them down. You got to do better with knowing film, knowing personnel. Just as a team, just got to do better, man."

Wade and Butler, who combined for 73 points on the night, had a clear message they wanted to get across in their postgame comments to the media. The pair walked out of the showers together and knew exactly what they wanted to say.

"M-----f----- just got to care if we win or lose," Butler said. "At the end of the day, do whatever it takes to help the team win. You play your role to the tee. Be a star in your role, man. That's how you win in this league, man. You have to embrace what this team, what this organization needs for you to do on either end of the floor. On top of everything else, just play every possession like it's your last. We don't play hard all the time. It's very disappointing whenever we don't play hard.''

Wade, the 12-time All-Star and three-time champion with Miami, took aim at the younger players, saying, "I'm 35 years old, man. I have three [NBA] championships. It shouldn't hurt me more than it hurts them. They have to want it."

Rondo, who has been praised by teammates and coaches throughout the season for serving as a mentor to many players on the Bulls' roster, defended the younger players in his post.

The Bulls, who fell to 23-24 after Wednesday's loss, will face Wade's former team, the Miami Heat, at home Friday night.

Rondo came to Chicago with a history of clashing with coaches.

Wade and Butler repeatedly defended Rondo after the veteran point guard was benched in the second half of a Dec. 30 loss to the Indiana Pacers. Wade even praised Rondo for handling the benching, which lasted five games, in a professional manner.

Rondo said after his benching that he didn't get a "clear cut" message about his future with the Bulls after a Dec. 31 meeting with Bulls executives Gar Forman and John Paxson. It was a notion the Bulls' front office disagreed with, but underscored the divide between Rondo and the organization.

Rondo has struggled all season on the floor averaging 6.4 points, down from a 10.7 career average.

In his comments before a Jan. 11 loss to the Washington Wizards, Rondo said the role he was sold on before signing is not the same one he was asked to serve in now.

ESPN's Nick Friedell and The Associated Press contributed to this report.