These smart knobs will prevent a kitchen disaster
These smart knobs will prevent a kitchen disaster
If you’ve ever forgot you left the stove on, you may want to look into Inirv React. These smart knobs that will automatically shut off your burners if you forgot you were cooking. The company recently launched a Kickstarter campaign that surpassed it’s goal in three days. It works by attaching a Wi-Fi sensor to your kitchen ceiling that can detect smoke, gas and motion. Inirv knobs pop right in where your old knobs were and the sensors will prompt knobs to automatically shut off if it detects a hazard. You will also get a notification to your smartphone to let you know its about to shut off your burner. A handy tool for those forgetful cooks everywhere. Source: https://www.cnet.com/products/react/preview/ Robot teaches kids as young as 3 to code This food recycler will turn your food scraps into fertilizer Industrial robot technology may soon be in your home Wristband monitors your blood alcohol content while you drink Breast-pumping moms can now go wireless The world’s first 3-screen gaming laptop is mind-blowing Netflix has just helped improve your commute Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game Your next food delivery order could come from a robot You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish Amazon offers special deals through Alexa WhatsApp video calling is finally here Sold-out Snapchat sunglasses already on eBay You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain



If you’ve ever forgot you left the stove on, you may want to look into Inirv React.

These smart knobs that will automatically shut off your burners if you forgot you were cooking.

The company recently launched a Kickstarter campaign that surpassed it’s goal in three days.

It works by attaching a Wi-Fi sensor to your kitchen ceiling that can detect smoke, gas and motion.

Inirv knobs pop right in where your old knobs were and the sensors will prompt knobs to automatically shut off if it detects a hazard.

You will also get a notification to your smartphone to let you know its about to shut off your burner.

A handy tool for those forgetful cooks everywhere.

Source: https://www.cnet.com/products/react/preview/

Robot teaches kids as young as 3 to code

This food recycler will turn your food scraps into fertilizer

Industrial robot technology may soon be in your home

Wristband monitors your blood alcohol content while you drink

Breast-pumping moms can now go wireless

The world’s first 3-screen gaming laptop is mind-blowing

Netflix has just helped improve your commute

Apple’s plan to beat Google in the maps game

Your next food delivery order could come from a robot

You can now add cooking to the list of things Alexa can help you do

This anti-drone gun looks like it can do some serious damage

You could soon be using your smartphone to get cash from the ATM

Instagram offers disappearing photos and live broadcasting

You may soon be able to use a drone to catch fish

Amazon offers special deals through Alexa

WhatsApp video calling is finally here

Sold-out Snapchat sunglasses already on eBay

You can now cast Harry Potter spells from your phone

Apple reveals new MacBook Pro with Touch Bar

This smart crib will help your baby sleep safely through the night

New hybrid console takes Nintendo on the go

Self-driving cars have hit Great Britain