Miss Universe 2017 contestants wear ballgowns and bikinis
Miss Universe contestants strut their stuff in ballgowns and bikinis


From marabou feathers to bejewelled bikinis and pineapple headdresses, it looked like a scene straight from the Rio Carnival.

The Miss Universe catwalk was a riot of colour and pageantry this evening as hopefuls posed in 'national costume' for the preliminary stages of the competition.

However, the interpretation of national dress seemed to be rather loose with the French Iris Mittenaere channeling Moulin Rogue, by appearing in a red frou frou cape and a crystal fringed bikini.

Many of the hopefuls looked as if they were ready to hit the runway for Victoria's Secret, especially Portugal's Flavia Brito who sported white feather trimmed angel wings.

The Miss Universe catwalk was a riot of colour and pageantry this evening as hopefuls such as Iris Mittenaere from France modelled their national costume for the preliminary show at the Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay City, south of Manila, Philippines

Portugal's Flavia Brito looked as if she was ready to hit the Victoria's Secret catwalk with her angelic feathered costume

Miss macaw! Rebecca Kathleen Rath from Belize looks ready for a carnival in a red sequinned bikini with crystal embellishment, a jewelled parrot headdress and enormous wings

Rebecca Kathleen Rath from Belize also looked carnival ready in a red sequinned bikini with crystal embellishment, a jewelled parrot headdress and enormous multicoloured wings.

One of the more bizarre ensembles saw Sweden's Ida Ovmar brandishing a large cardboard cutout of a spotted horse as she walked on stage.

Meanwhile, Magdalena Cohendet from Uruguay was a rather beautiful, if slightly unusual, lobster.

At least the Korean candidate Jenny Kim's outfit was more recognisable as she walked on stage in an elaborate kimono.

One of the more bizarre ensembles saw Sweden's Ida Ovmar brandishing a large cardboard cutout of a spotted horse as she walked on stage

The candidate from Panima Keity Drennan wore an elaborate purple and green feathered costume inspired by the small towns and market of her home country

Magdalena Cohendet from Uruguay was a rather beautiful, if slightly unusual, lobster

Miss Universe candidate Jenny Kim from Korea stuck with tradition by modelling a kimono, worn by Queens during special occasions

Myanmar Htet Htet Htun was dressed as a traditional puppet show from her home country

Miss USA showcased a superhero outfit with an eagle shield and thigh high silver boots, but unfortunately her wings malfunctioned on stage, so she couldn't show off her costume to full effect.

Kezia Warouw of Indonesia made an eye-catching golden garuda in her huge metallic wings, a large mythical bird, bird-like creature, or humanoid bird that appears in both Hindu and Buddhist mythology

The women vying to be crowned Miss Universe 2017 at the end of this month showed off very different looks for judges earlier today.

Miss Universe candidate Noelia Freire from Spain was a vision in red and gold

Miss Germany wore a sparkling ballgown and a headdress inspired by one of her country's fairytale castles

Miss Finland wowed in a racy number with a ruffled tiered skirt that showed off her slim legs

Miss Universe contestant Htet Htet Htun of Myanmar performs a puppetry show during her catwalk appearance

A panda embroidered dress was one of the less unusual costumes on display, as modelled by Miss China

Miss Bolivia's headpiece was the largest of the night and represented 18 different dances from her home nation

The bevy of beautiful women walked the catwalk in ballgowns and then bikinis in the run up to the world famous beauty pageant.

The Miss Universe preliminary show took place at the Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay City, south of Manila in the Philippines.

The judges for the competition today included former UNICEF ambassador and Miss Universe from Puerto Rico Dayanara Torres, the model and star of Real Housewives of Atlanta Cynthia Bailey, and former journalist and international marketing director Rob Goldstone.

Miss Sierra Leone Hawa Kamara wore a costume inspired by those worn by traditional dancers, with shells from her home country sewn on to her headpiece

Miss USA went for a superhero theme, but unfortunately her wings malfunctioned on stage

Miss Vietname was looking a little wooden in a tasseled outfit featuring traditional baskets

The president of the People's Choice Awards Fred Nelson, a social entrepreneur and women's empowerment activist Francine LeFrak, and Miss Universe 2007 Riyo Mori were also on the panel.

All 86 contestants strutted on stage in long, elegant evening gowns before switching into their swimsuits.

Miss Universe candidate Noelia Freire from Spain came out in her swimsuit during the show and wowed the judges in her white two-piece.

The costume worn by the candidate from the U.S. Virgin Islands Carolyn Carter was a riot of colour and feathers

Miss Universe candidate from Colombia Andrea Tovar proudly shows off her country's tricolour flag

Dominican Republic's Sal Garcia as covered in pretty birds as she made a colourful appearance on the catwalk

Soyini Fraser from Guyana looked like she was ready to take part in the Rio carnival

Jaime-Lee Faulkner was flying the flag for Great Britain in Manila

Shirly Karvinen from Finland brightened up the competition in her yellow swimwear, while Johanna Acs from Germany wowed in a green bikini.

Germany's Johanna Acs wore a mint-coloured floor-length dress with a see-through panel and statement earrings.

Shirly Karvinen of Finland wore an off-the-shoulder plum floor-length dress and had her dark hair down on one side.

Kezia Warouw of Indonesia made an eye-catching golden garuda in her huge metallic wings, a large mythical bird, bird-like creature, or humanoid bird that appears in both Hindu and Buddhist mythology

Roshmita Harimurthy of India was a glittering goddess on the catwalk

Mariam Habach from Venezuela dressed as ocean godddess Yemaya and wowed in a dress studded with hundreds of pearls

Miss Universe candidate Brenda Azaria Jimenez from Puerto Rico

Marina Jacoby from Nicaragua wore a real show stopper inspired by her country's national bird, the Turquoise-browed motmot

Other contestants include Noelia Freire from Spain in a glittering nude number.

Representing the UK is Miss Great Britain Jaime-Lee Faulkner, from Treeton, Rotherham, who was crowned Miss Universe GB in July last year.

The 26-year-old first entered the competition in 2011 but did not place but is now set to take on her 85 competitors in the international competition.

The final of the competition airs on 30 January with Steve Harvey returning as host alongside new co-host and model Ashley Graham.

Miss Universe candidate Noelia Freire from Spain (above) walks on stage in her swimsuit during the Miss Universe preliminary show at the Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay City, south of Manila, Philippines

Miss Universe candidate Johanna Acs (C) from Germany walks on stage in her evening gown along with 85 other candidates who are vying for the 65th Miss Universe crown, with the coronation event scheduled for 30 January

Last year, Steve Harvey mistakenly announced the wrong winner of the pageant - giving the crown to Miss Columbia.

He then had to come back on stage and crown the real winner, Miss Philippines, instead.

Crowds packed the Mall of Asia Arena as each candidate showcased her swimsuits, evening gowns and national costumes in front of the judges.

Miss Universe candidate Shirly Karvinen from Finland walks on stage in her swimsuit during the pageant in a bright yellow bikini and nude high heels

Johanna Acs from Germany walks on stage in her floor-length mint green evening gown during the Miss Universe preliminary show and teamed her dress with statement earrings

The preliminary competition that started on Thursday will whittle down the crowded field to the top 12 candidates for the pageant night, the Miss Universe website said.

'The whole world is being united, and even though we don't know each other, we still enjoy the event,' said Apple Natividad, one of the many spectators who attended the show.

Some even dressed like Miss Universe candidates to join the fanfare.

Johanna Acs from Germany walks on stage in her white and green swimsuit and shows off her tan in a pair of strappy nude high heels

Shirly Karvinen of Finland wore an off-the-shoulder plum floor-length dress and had her long dark hair down on one side with large statement silver earrings

Miss Universe candidate Noelia Freire (2-R) from Spain walks on stage in her evening gown during the Miss Universe preliminary show with other contestants from Sri Lanka and South Africa

Miss Universe candidate Noelia Freire from Spain walks on stage in a glittering nude number. The final of the competition airs on 30 January

'This is a venue for beauty, but also the beauty of the heart, especially for us Filipinos who are fanatics for pageants,' said Rania Ziateh, who wore a Miss Philippines sash.

Over half a million people are expected to tune in to watch the coronation night next week, organizers said.

Filipina beauty queen Pia Wurtzbach currently holds the Miss Universe crown from 2015