Scientists' March On Washington Being Planned
Scientists' March On Washington Being Planned
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Robert Glatter, MD       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. , with their sights also set on D.C. They're hoping to send a message that action is necessary to prevent changes to existing environmental and health policies now being proposed by the Trump administration that they believe could have devastating effects on our planet and its residents. Greenpeace activists hang a banner off of a construction crane that reads "Resist" past the White House in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Jan. 25, 2017. Courtesy of Andrew Harrer, Bloomberg With the Trump administration poised to pull the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement and a former employee at Badlands National Park posting unauthorized tweets about the effects of global warming, along with the reported recent cancellation of a planned CDC conference on global warming, :  they will not stand by on the sidelines as the new administration forges ahead with policies which oppose clearly established facts and scientific principles. Their new website , “Scientists’ March on Washington,” is a call to arms, urging “the responsible application of science to government.” There are certain things that we accept as facts with no alternatives. The Earth is becoming warmer due to human action. The diversity of life arose by evolution.  , its origins from a Facebook page that has grown from 200 members five days ago to now over 220,000, with its hashtag, #ScienceMarch, trending on Twitter. @ScienceMarchDC is the new Twitter handle for the group, and now has over 112,ooo followers. The group recently tweeted that it accepts all persons, regardless of whether they are scientists. And while the group will hold its first event as a march, it has hopes of developing a much larger role in advocacy, including taking “a stand for science in politics,” as outlined on its website. Dr. Caroline Weinberg, a public health researcher, science writer and co-chair of the organizing group, told STAT News yesterday that “our motivation is pretty straightforward," adding that “ . It has been less than a week and there have already been funding freezes and efforts to restrict scientists from communicating their findings (from tax-funded research) with the public.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Following in the footsteps of the Women’s March on Washington last weekend, scientists have now begun to organize , with their sights also set on D.C.

They're hoping to send a message that action is necessary to prevent changes to existing environmental and health policies now being proposed by the Trump administration that they believe could have devastating effects on our planet and its residents.

With the Trump administration poised to pull the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement and a former employee at Badlands National Park posting unauthorized tweets about the effects of global warming, along with the reported recent cancellation of a planned CDC conference on global warming, scientists are drawing a line in the sand : they will not stand by on the sidelines as the new administration forges ahead with policies which oppose clearly established facts and scientific principles.

Their new website, “Scientists’ March on Washington,” is a call to arms, urging “the responsible application of science to government.”

The group says on its website that it is still in the organizing stage, promising a mission statement to follow soon , its origins from a Facebook page that has grown from 200 members five days ago to now over 220,000, with its hashtag, #ScienceMarch, trending on Twitter. @ScienceMarchDC is the new Twitter handle for the group, and now has over 112,ooo followers. The group recently tweeted that it accepts all persons, regardless of whether they are scientists.

And while the group will hold its first event as a march, it has hopes of developing a much larger role in advocacy, including taking “a stand for science in politics,” as outlined on its website.

Dr. Caroline Weinberg, a public health researcher, science writer and co-chair of the organizing group, told STAT News yesterday that “our motivation is pretty straightforward," adding that “ scientists worldwide have been alarmed by the clear anti-science actions taken by the Trump administration . It has been less than a week and there have already been funding freezes and efforts to restrict scientists from communicating their findings (from tax-funded research) with the public.”