Duke Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski bans players from locker room, forbids them from wearing school apparel
Sources: Frustrated Coach K disciplines players
Sources: Frustrated Coach K disciplines players Gonzaga, Villanova top poll after wild week Bragg suited up for Kansas' game on Monday Louisville's Mathiang, Adel sit for missing curfew A10: Technical on Bonnies not for storming court 'Crazy' but true: Boeheim gets win No. 899* Coach K feels 'lucky' as Duke wins in his return True or false: College basketball's most important questions answered Villanova remains No. 1 in ESPN's BPI, assumes top spot in Strength of Record Arizona coach Sean Miller earned his contract extension Still time to hop on the college hoops bandwagon College hoops Power Rankings: When the mighty fall Tar Heels thrive in 'weird' situation against Notre Dame Dickie V's weekly awards: Jacob Wiley's big numbers 899 or 1,000? Like the man, Boeheim's win total is complicated The road to the Big 12 title goes through where, exactly? Rank 'em: Who are the top 10 teams in the country right now? Kentucky will walk to the SEC title? Not so fast Duke finally has all its pieces but is far from a finished product Oregon sends a message with rout of Arizona Gonzaga proving to be a team worthy of its rank Jeff Goodman describes the issues affecting the Duke's men's basketball team that resulted in Mike Krzyzewski banning the players from the locker room and wearing team apparel. (1:34) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Jeff Goodman Joined ESPN as a college basketball Insider in June 2013 Previously wrote for CBSSports.com and FOXSports.com Dana O'Neil College basketball reporter. Joined ESPN in 2007. Graduate of Penn State University. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, on the mend after back surgery, held a meeting at his house Tuesday night in which he informed players that they were temporarily kicked out of the locker room and also forbidden from wearing Blue Devils apparel, sources told ESPN. Sources told ESPN that Krzyzewski has employed this tactic multiple times in the past. "He wasn't happy," said one source close to the situation. "Especially after the loss to NC State." Asked how long the penalties would last, a source close to the program said: "Until they start living up to the standards of the Duke program." After the meeting, the players held a separate players-only meeting, a source told ESPN. "He needs to do more than just take away their jerseys," added another source close to the program. "There are bigger issues that need to be addressed." When asked about the situation on 99.9 The Fan radio on Thursday, acting coach Jeff Capel said: "Really can't speak on it. Disappointing when stuff that's supposed to stay in the locker room gets out." The loss to the Wolfpack was the third defeat in the past four games for the Blue Devils, who blew a late lead in the game that resulted in Duke's first home loss to NC State since 1995. The Blue Devils were the preseason favorite to win the national title, but they have struggled -- even after getting everyone back healthy. Freshmen Harry Giles , Jayson Tatum and Marques Bolden all missed the beginning of the season. Grayson Allen was suspended one game by Krzyzewski for his latest tripping incident. Veteran Amile Jefferson has also missed time. Duke, however, has still struggled since Jefferson's return from a two-game absence due to injury. After a first half against Miami in which Duke trailed by 11 points, Capel sat starters Luke Kennard , Allen and Giles. The team responded with a strong second half that resulted in a victory. The Blue Devils are 2-3 overall since Krzyzewski took a leave of absence. Duke will play at Wake Forest on Saturday. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Jeff Goodman describes the issues affecting the Duke's men's basketball team that resulted in Mike Krzyzewski banning the players from the locker room and wearing team apparel. (1:34)

Coach K trying to light a fire under his players (1:34)

Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, on the mend after back surgery, held a meeting at his house Tuesday night in which he informed players that they were temporarily kicked out of the locker room and also forbidden from wearing Blue Devils apparel, sources told ESPN.

Sources told ESPN that Krzyzewski has employed this tactic multiple times in the past.

"He wasn't happy," said one source close to the situation. "Especially after the loss to NC State."

Asked how long the penalties would last, a source close to the program said: "Until they start living up to the standards of the Duke program."

Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski met with players at his home, sources told ESPN, to impose punishments as the Blue Devils have gone 2-3 during his absence following back surgery. Grant Halverson/Getty Images

After the meeting, the players held a separate players-only meeting, a source told ESPN.

"He needs to do more than just take away their jerseys," added another source close to the program. "There are bigger issues that need to be addressed."

When asked about the situation on 99.9 The Fan radio on Thursday, acting coach Jeff Capel said: "Really can't speak on it. Disappointing when stuff that's supposed to stay in the locker room gets out."

The loss to the Wolfpack was the third defeat in the past four games for the Blue Devils, who blew a late lead in the game that resulted in Duke's first home loss to NC State since 1995. The Blue Devils were the preseason favorite to win the national title, but they have struggled -- even after getting everyone back healthy.

Freshmen Harry Giles, Jayson Tatum and Marques Bolden all missed the beginning of the season. Grayson Allen was suspended one game by Krzyzewski for his latest tripping incident. Veteran Amile Jefferson has also missed time.

Duke, however, has still struggled since Jefferson's return from a two-game absence due to injury. After a first half against Miami in which Duke trailed by 11 points, Capel sat starters Luke Kennard, Allen and Giles. The team responded with a strong second half that resulted in a victory.

The Blue Devils are 2-3 overall since Krzyzewski took a leave of absence.

Duke will play at Wake Forest on Saturday.