Call 5 Lawmakers In 5 Minutes To Demand Action With This New Website
How To Call 5 Lawmakers In Just 5 Minutes
Americans are ticked off, and they want to take action. Now a new website is making it easier than ever for voters to quickly and effectively call their lawmakers. 5 Calls encourages progressives to make five phone calls in five minutes on key topics such as Cabinet appointments, the border wall and immigration. Just enter a zip code, and the left-leaning website will provide a list of names, phone numbers and even short scripts. “We do the research for each issue, determining out which representatives are most influential for which topic, collecting phone numbers for those offices and writing scripts that clearly articulate a progressive position,” the website states. “You just have to call.” Each call should take a minute, or less. While many voters like to email or leave Facebook messages for their representatives, there’s evidence that phone calls are the best way to influence lawmakers. Early this year, House Republicans abandoned an attempt to cripple their ethics watchdog amid a flood of angry phone calls . And last year, a former Congressional staffer said the most effective way to contact a representative was with a phone call. The new website not only assists voters in making those calls, it also helps them keep track of who they’ve spoken to and which issues were covered. While the 5 Calls’ scripts push a liberal agenda, they’ve made their software open source so that anyone can adapt it. ALSO ON HUFFPOST What Your Members Of Congress Can Do For You       Share this slide:       MORE:

Help With Federal Agencies

Having trouble with Medicare, Social Security or veterans benefits, the IRS, your passport or immigration situations? Your member of Congress might be able to help. But, as Brad Fitch of the Congressional Management Foundation advises, the key is to make sure you don't procrastinate and that you have a legitimate case.Even if he really wants to help, your member of Congress can't do much if you notify the office at 5 p.m. Friday about a family member set to be deported Monday morning. Likewise, members of Congress can't help you circumvent the law, and they can only help you resolve matters that fall under federal jurisdiction.Each member has staffers -- usually based in their district -- who focus on helping constituents with these problems. Before they can inquire on your behalf, though, the office must have a privacy release form, notes Kathie Green, director of constituent services for Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.). Each office has its own form, which can be found on its website.You must contact a member of Congress who represents you ; otherwise, they can't help you. Green points out that you should contact the office of only one member of Congress. Asking multiple offices to help you further burdens the agencies they're contacting and doesn't improve your chances of getting help."From a constituent standpoint, sometimes it's hard to have patience," Green said. Congressional staffs "do the best job possible" and have developed relationships with federal agencies to help you as quickly as they can.