Australia leads international push to protect far eastern curlew from extinction



Australia leads international push to protect far eastern curlew from extinction

Updated

Australian researchers are leading a push to protect a critically endangered shorebird, the far eastern curlew, from extinction.

Threatened Species Commissioner Gregory Andrews said an action plan to protect the far eastern curlew was negotiated in Singapore last week.

About three quarters of the world's far eastern curlew population fly to Australia each year after breeding.

"Their population has dropped by about 80 per cent over the last three decades, so if we don't reverse their decline soon they'll be extinct," Mr Andrews said.

"They're actually the largest shorebird in the world and they fly 12,000 kilometres."

Japan, China, Russia, South Korea and other countries on the bird's path to Siberia have signed up to the deal.

The new research will include satellite tracking to better understand the bird's migration path, breeding and resting sites.

Micha Jackson from the University of Queensland, who was at the East Asian-Australasian Flyway Partnership meeting in Singapore, said the shorebird faced a variety of threats.

"[There is] less food being available [and] there are issues with pollution that are very understudied," she said.

"You augment that with issues like hunting, as well as the issues faced in places like Australia where there's very high volumes of people using the places that these birds use."

Shorebird researcher Amanda Lilleyman from Charles Darwin University said a dumping pond for dredging spoils in Darwin Harbour had become a haven for the far eastern curlew.

Ms Lilleyman said the loss of mudflats along the far eastern curlew's path, particularly in the Yellow Sea region due to land reclamation and development, was the main reason for the curlew's decline.

"In Darwin we have a very important population that use the Darwin port artificial site," she said.

"The birds use this at high tide because it's a really nice mudflat pond, it's got shallow water, it's fully open and exposed."

Ms Lilleyman said up to 260 far eastern curlews had been spotted at the harbour site during high tide, but the population across Darwin was likely to be higher.

Darwin Port has agreed to provide some funding for the far eastern curlew research, in addition to funds provided through the National Environmental Science Programme.

Larrakia Nation's Donna Jackson said local rangers were also involved in the Darwin-based research.

"It's really good for our staff to get out there and see how the equipment's used and mingle and meet with the scientists," Ms Jackson said.

"It's also good for us to build up a knowledge of some of the animals and plants that we may not have intimate knowledge of.

"Particularly ones like this that are only here at certain times of year and they don't have a particular cultural story."

Ms Lilleyman and the rangers recently completed a helicopter survey to document the far east curlew's favourite sites in Darwin.

She said the next stage of the research would involve catching some of the curlews with a net, measuring them and attaching tiny GPS tags.

"If we can understand where they're moving throughout the day from Darwin Port into Darwin Harbour, the mudflats that they're using, we can start to target the exact habitat and areas of Darwin that may have the most birds," Ms Lilleyman said.

"We would understand where the birds are going and potentially protect the bird later on if a development application is proposed, for instance."

Topics: birds, endangered-and-protected-species, darwin-0800

First posted