Donald Trump Agrees Not to Talk Publicly About Mexico Paying for Border Wall
Donald Trump Agrees Not to Talk Publicly About Mexico Paying for Border Wall
Biography Carol E. Lee @CarolELee carol.lee@wsj.com Biography Peter Nicholas @peterwsj Peter.Nicholas@wsj.com In a bid to repair a rift with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, President Donald Trump agreed on Friday to stop speaking publicly about one of his signature campaign promises: that Mexico would pay for the construction of a wall along the U.S. border. The concession was detailed in the joint U.S.-Mexico statement after the two leaders had an hour-long phone call, but not in the White House’s version. A White House official said Mr. Trump did indeed agree to stop talking publicly about Mexico paying for the wall,... Most Popular Videos  Violent UC Berkeley Protests Force Cancellation of Breitbart Writer's Talk  Lava Pours Steadily From Hawaii's Kilauea Volcano  New 'Bat Bot' Robot Flies Like a Bat   Opinion Journal: National Security Council Coup    Rex Tillerson Sworn In as U.S. Secretary of State  Most Popular Articles      White House Puts Iran ‘On Notice’ After Missile Launch        Is That Dog on Your Flight Really a Service Pet?        White House Takes On Working Visas        Trump Urges Senate GOP to Scrap 60-Vote Rule for Court Pick        Trump’s Backers Want Action on Jobs, Taxes, Immigration

“Border adjustment,” a controversial Republican proposal, would tax U.S. imports and exempt exports from taxation. WSJ’s Jason Bellini explains how it would work. Photo: Getty

In a bid to repair a rift with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, President Donald Trump agreed on Friday to stop speaking publicly about one of his signature campaign promises: that Mexico would pay for the construction of a wall along the U.S. border.

The concession was detailed in the joint U.S.-Mexico statement after the two leaders had an hour-long phone call, but not in the White House’s version. A White House official said Mr. Trump did indeed agree to stop talking publicly about Mexico paying for the wall,...