Green Energy Features Big Among Trump's Top 50 Infrastructure Projects
Green Energy Features Big Among Trump's Top 50 Infrastructure Projects
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Christopher Helman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Trump orders federal fast track of Keystone XL and North Dakota Access Pipeline. (Credit: Shawn Thew / Pool via CNP /MediaPunch/IPX) A list emerged this week; it appears to have been prepared for then President-elect Trump, and is titled: “ Priority List: Emergency & National Security Projects .” It’s 50 pages for 50 infrastructure projects — quick facts on a host of highways, bridges, powerlines and airports, the construction of which would naturally make America greater, cost $140 billion, and require enough engineering and construction work to keep the equivalent of 24,000 people employed for 10 years. Surprisingly, the list contains no mention of a Great Wall on the Mexico border, nor the Keystone XL or Dakota Access pipeline projects. The one pipeline project on the list is the Atlantic Coast Pipeline , which would move natural gas from Pennsylvania’s Marcellus shale down to the Southeast. Owned by Dominion Resources, Duke Energy and Southern Company, the pipeline would cost about $5 billion and provide 10,000 job years. The rest of the energy infrastructure projects are surprisingly green and may give a glimmer of hope to renewable energy fans worried about the potential for Trump to roll back the Clean Power Plan and promote coal and oil over the likes of wind and solar. Project #9. The $2.5 billion, Plains and Eastern Electric Transmission Lines , which would carry 4 gigawatts of Oklahoma wind power 700 miles to the southeast via direct current . Developed by Clean Line Energy Partners (CFO Dave Berry appeared on the 2012 Forbes 30 Under 30 list). Project #16. TransWest Express , a $3 billion 3-gigawatt line, backed by billionaire Phil Anschutz , which would move power from a Wyoming wind farm to Arizona, California and Nevada. The project is deep into the permitting process. Would provide 3,000 jobs. Project #17. That Wyoming wind farm, to be built on is called Chokecherry & Sierra Madre Wind Energy. Plans call for 1,000 wind turbines, at a cost of $5 billion. The Bureau of Land Management this month approved the first 500 windmills. Generates 1,000 jobs.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Energy projects on Trump's "Priority List" could add 9 gigawatts of clean power.

A list emerged this week; it appears to have been prepared for then President-elect Trump, and is titled: “Priority List: Emergency & National Security Projects.” It’s 50 pages for 50 infrastructure projects — quick facts on a host of highways, bridges, powerlines and airports, the construction of which would naturally make America greater, cost $140 billion, and require enough engineering and construction work to keep the equivalent of 24,000 people employed for 10 years.

Surprisingly, the list contains no mention of a Great Wall on the Mexico border, nor the Keystone XL or Dakota Access pipeline projects. The one pipeline project on the list is the Atlantic Coast Pipeline, which would move natural gas from Pennsylvania’s Marcellus shale down to the Southeast. Owned by Dominion Resources, Duke Energy and Southern Company, the pipeline would cost about $5 billion and provide 10,000 job years.

Also on Forbes:

The rest of the energy infrastructure projects are surprisingly green and may give a glimmer of hope to renewable energy fans worried about the potential for Trump to roll back the Clean Power Plan and promote coal and oil over the likes of wind and solar.

Project #9. The $2.5 billion, Plains and Eastern Electric Transmission Lines, which would carry 4 gigawatts of Oklahoma wind power 700 miles to the southeast via direct current. Developed by Clean Line Energy Partners (CFO Dave Berry appeared on the 2012 Forbes 30 Under 30 list).

Project #16. TransWest Express, a $3 billion 3-gigawatt line, backed by billionaire Phil Anschutz, which would move power from a Wyoming wind farm to Arizona, California and Nevada. The project is deep into the permitting process. Would provide 3,000 jobs.

Project #17. That Wyoming wind farm, to be built on is called Chokecherry & Sierra Madre Wind Energy. Plans call for 1,000 wind turbines, at a cost of $5 billion. The Bureau of Land Management this month approved the first 500 windmills. Generates 1,000 jobs.