Radio 2 takes 'horrible' decision to replace Britain's oldest DJ Brian Matthew on Sounds of the 60s
Radio 2 takes 'horrible' decision to replace Britain's oldest DJ Brian Matthew on Sounds of the 60s
rian Matthew, the Radio 2 DJ who has presented Sounds of the 60s for more than a quarter of a century, is to be replaced by the BBC in a decision he described as "horrible". Matthew, 88, is Britain’s oldest regular radio presenter and has been with the station since 1954. He has been off air for several weeks to recuperate from a fall, with Sir Tim Rice standing in for him on the Saturday morning show. The BBC said in a statement that, due to Matthew’s ill health, it had been mutually agreed that it was “the right time for him to step off the weekly treadmill of presenting the show”. But Matthew said: “That’s absolute balderdash. I was ready and willing and able to go back, and they’ve just said they are going to put the programme in the hands of other people. “I didn’t really have much in the way of ill health. I had a collapse at home at the bottom of our stairs, and my wife called the ambulance service. They came and examined me and said it was a matter for appraisal at the hospital. They put me on a ward, I stayed there for a while and now I’m back at home. “I enjoyed doing the show very much indeed. I did it for 25 years. I feel very disconcerted, I must say. I do admit I’m a bit of an antique, but that’s never seemed to matter until now.” Statement on Brian Matthew #Soundsofthe60s  pic.twitter.com/Ntsr5kkw7S atthew said the decision to take him off the show was “horrible”. He was one of Radio 2’s first DJs, and has presented Sounds of the 60s since 1990. “The BBC have, in their wisdom, just sent me a whole batch of letters from listeners. You should see the mail,” he said. “It’s amazing, people saying ‘We’ve always been fans of the programme, it isn’t the same without you, when are you coming back?’” Sounds of the 60s is made by an independent production company for the BBC. A BBC spokesman said: “As regular listeners will know, Brian has not presented Sounds of the 60s since November due to poor health. “The production company that makes the show met with Brian recently and agreed that, due to his extended bout of ill health, it felt like the right time for him to step off the weekly treadmill of presenting the show. “However, we are discussing a series of special programmes with Brian and hope he will return to Radio 2 as soon as possible. Sounds of the 60s will continue with a new presenter and we will announce more details in due course.” Matthew said he was happy to make one-off programmes for the station, but would dearly love to return to his show. He began his broadcast career in 1948 and trained as an actor at RADA before joining the BBC in 1954. He hosted Saturday Club, one of the first programmes to broadcast pop music, from its beginnings in 1958 until 1967, when Radio 1 was launched and the BBC told him he “wasn’t suited” for a young audience. But he went on to present the television show Thank Your Lucky Stars, and from 1978-1990 he hosted the Radio 2 arts programme Round Midnight. In 2006, he won a Sony Gold Award - the industry’s answer to an Oscar - and a lifetime award “in recognition of a truly outstanding contribution to UK radio”. Lewis Carnie, head of Radio 2, said: “Brian is an outstanding presenter and, at 88, a radio legend. He has made the programme his own with his natural ability, passion and warmth and we are incredibly grateful for everything he has done for Sounds of the 60s. “We’re very sorry that Brian is unable to continue presenting every week, but hope to welcome him back to Radio 2 very soon.”

Brian Matthew, the Radio 2 DJ who has presented Sounds of the 60s for more than a quarter of a century, is to be replaced by the BBC in a decision he described as "horrible".

Matthew, 88, is Britain’s oldest regular radio presenter and has been with the station since 1954. He has been off air for several weeks to recuperate from a fall, with Sir Tim Rice standing in for him on the Saturday morning show.

The BBC said in a statement that, due to Matthew’s ill health, it had been mutually agreed that it was “the right time for him to step off the weekly treadmill of presenting the show”.

But Matthew said: “That’s absolute balderdash. I was ready and willing and able to go back, and they’ve just said they are going to put the programme in the hands of other people.

“I didn’t really have much in the way of ill health. I had a collapse at home at the bottom of our stairs, and my wife called the ambulance service. They came and examined me and said it was a matter for appraisal at the hospital. They put me on a ward, I stayed there for a while and now I’m back at home.

“I enjoyed doing the show very much indeed. I did it for 25 years. I feel very disconcerted, I must say. I do admit I’m a bit of an antique, but that’s never seemed to matter until now.”