'It's a Disgrace': Trump Slams Attacks on Barron, Calls SNL a 'Disaster'

'It's a Disgrace': Trump Slams Attacks on Barron, Calls SNL a 'Disaster' // // // // In an interview with Sean Hannity at the White House, President Donald Trump denounced the attacks on his family, including his 10-year-old son, Barron. Hannity asked whether the personal attacks have affected his family. "I don't mind some humor, but for NBC to attack my 10-year-old son is a disgrace. He's a great boy and it's not an easy thing for him," said Trump, calling SNL a "failing show." "Saturday Night Live" writer Katie Rich triggered a backlash last Friday when she tweeted a joke about Trump and Melania's young son. She was suspended from the show a few days later and issued an apology. On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Judge Jeanine Pirro agreed that the personal attacks on the First Lady and Barron are beyond the pale. "Whether it’s the son or the wife, it’s outrageous. It’s a double standard. If we had done anything like this to Michelle Obama we would be racist, we would be haters," she argued. Earlier this week, comedian Chelsea Handler made headlines for mocking Melania Trump's accent. Watch the clips above and tune into "Justice with Judge Jeanine," on Fox News Channel!

In an interview with Sean Hannity at the White House, President Donald Trump denounced the attacks on his family, including his 10-year-old son, Barron.

Hannity asked whether the personal attacks have affected his family.

"I don't mind some humor, but for NBC to attack my 10-year-old son is a disgrace. He's a great boy and it's not an easy thing for him," said Trump, calling SNL a "failing show."

"Saturday Night Live" writer Katie Rich triggered a backlash last Friday when she tweeted a joke about Trump and Melania's young son. She was suspended from the show a few days later and issued an apology.

On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Judge Jeanine Pirro agreed that the personal attacks on the First Lady and Barron are beyond the pale.

"Whether it’s the son or the wife, it’s outrageous. It’s a double standard. If we had done anything like this to Michelle Obama we would be racist, we would be haters," she argued.

Earlier this week, comedian Chelsea Handler made headlines for mocking Melania Trump's accent.

Watch the clips above and tune into "Justice with Judge Jeanine," Saturday at 9pm ET on Fox News Channel!

Dallas Teacher Stages Mock Assassination of Trump...with a Squirt Gun!

DRUG BUST! Police Arrest Dealers at Kennedy Shriver Family Summer Home

Mayor Ends 'Sanctuary' Status, Orders Jails to Comply With Trump's Immigration Plan