Here's what Absolut Vodka is looking for in their next 'billion dollar nose'
Here's what Absolut Vodka is looking for in their next 'billion dollar nose'
Absolut Vodka wants to hire someone as a full time drinker. The legendary spirits company is looking for a "billion dollar nose" and no, that's not just any old nose attached to someone who drinks a lot of vodka. The international vodka brand is working to replace Per Hermansson , who's held the position—and earned a reputation for his own nose—for more than three decades. SEE ALSO: All electric trains in the Netherlands are entirely wind-powered Absolut is seeking a “Master Sensory Designer and Strategist with a billion dollar nose," according to their posted job listing , and they're not just going to base that off a charming YouTube submission video either: all serious applicants need to have "documented blending skills" and a "comprehension of texture in spirits." That's in addition to the prerequisite of knowing what either of those things mean. So if you have that winning combination of tangible experience in sensory matters a nose worth paying for: rest assured, the big break you've been waiting for is finally here. As for the rest of us? Shots it is. BONUS: Bacon lovers will go ham over this kitchen gadget Edit: article previously stated that Absolut is a Swedish company. It was bought by French group Pernod Ricard in 2008.

Absolut Vodka wants to hire someone as a full time drinker.

The legendary spirits company is looking for a "billion dollar nose" and no, that's not just any old nose attached to someone who drinks a lot of vodka.

The international vodka brand is working to replace Per Hermansson, who's held the position—and earned a reputation for his own nose—for more than three decades.

Absolut is seeking a “Master Sensory Designer and Strategist with a billion dollar nose," according to their posted job listing, and they're not just going to base that off a charming YouTube submission video either: all serious applicants need to have "documented blending skills" and a "comprehension of texture in spirits." That's in addition to the prerequisite of knowing what either of those things mean.

So if you have that winning combination of tangible experience in sensory matters and a nose worth paying for: rest assured, the big break you've been waiting for is finally here.

As for the rest of us? Shots it is.

Edit: article previously stated that Absolut is a Swedish company. It was bought by French group Pernod Ricard in 2008.