Morgan Heritage Wants Everyone to Feel Good on 'Reggae Night': Premiere
Morgan Heritage Wants Everyone to Feel Good on 'Reggae Night': Premiere
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Morgan Heritage Wants Everyone to Feel Good on 'Reggae Night': Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  A year ago at this time, was 20 days away from winning its first Grammy Award for best reggae album with its 10 studio album, . Now the critically acclaimed group is ramping up a world tour and finishing up its forthcoming new album -- a taste of which premieres exclusively today on . “Reggae Night” featuring finds Morgan Heritage directing that “everyone take a load off” as the group shifts into fourth-gear jam mode. Providing the inspiration for the upbeat anthem -- co-produced by DreZion, also a keyboardist for the band -- was none other than reggae icon and Rock and Roll Hall of Famer . Listen to “Reggae Night” below. After receiving the track from DreZion and playing it on the tour bus last year, Morgan Heritage vocalist recalls, “All we could hear was Jimmy Cliff's song ‘Reggae Night.’ And like many around the world, we are Jimmy Cliff fans. The song basically wrote itself once we were singing the hook and just vibing.” Vocals for the track were recorded last October in a studio the group set up in its hotel room while in Zimbabwe. Available now , “Reggae Night” is the second single from Morgan Heritage’s yet-untitled 11 studio album. It’s due this spring via the group’s own Cool To Be Conscious (CTBC) label. The project’s first single “Selah” was released last summer.  Adds Morgan, “We wanted to start the year off with a song to get people feeling good despite all that's going on in the world today.” Morgan and his four siblings—Una Morgan (keyboard/vocals), Roy “Gramps” Morgan (keyboard/vocals), Nakhamyah “Lukes” Morgan (rhythm guitar) and Memmalatel “Mr. Mojo” Morgan (percussion/vocals)—will personally deliver that message when the quintet kicks off its world tour on Feb. 18 in Auckland, New Zealand. Additional tour dates will be announced in the weeks to come: February 18 - Auckland, New Zealand - Raggamuffin Festival - The Trusts Arena February 19 - Melbourne, Australia - Raggamuffin Allstar’s Tour - Margaret Court February 21 - Sydney, Australia - Raggamuffin Allstar’s Tour - Hordern Pavilion April 13 - Kampala, Uganda - Lugogo Cricket Oval April 27 - Le Ferme, Martinique - Ferme Perrine April 28 - Le Gosier, Guadaloupe - Palais Des Sports Du Gosier April 29 - St Maarten - Carnival Village May 3 - Antwerp, Belgium - De Roma May 4 - Oxford, England - O2 Academy May 5 - Manchester, England - The Ritz May 6 - Birmingham, England - O2 Academy May 7 - London England - O2 Forum Kentish Town May 9 - Paris, France - La Cigale May 10 - Amsterdam, Holland – Paradiso May 20 - Nassau, Bahamas – Thomas Robinson Stadium Carnival Grounds    FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

A year ago at this time, Morgan Heritage was 20 days away from winning its first Grammy Award for best reggae album with its 10th studio album, Strictly Roots. Now the critically acclaimed group is ramping up a world tour and finishing up its forthcoming new album -- a taste of which premieres exclusively today on Billboard.com.

“Reggae Night” featuring DreZion finds Morgan Heritage directing that “everyone take a load off” as the group shifts into fourth-gear jam mode. Providing the inspiration for the upbeat anthem -- co-produced by DreZion, also a keyboardist for the band -- was none other than reggae icon and Rock and Roll Hall of Famer Jimmy Cliff.

Listen to “Reggae Night” below.

After receiving the track from DreZion and playing it on the tour bus last year, Morgan Heritage vocalist Peetah Morgan recalls, “All we could hear was Jimmy Cliff's song ‘Reggae Night.’ And like many around the world, we are big Jimmy Cliff fans. The song basically wrote itself once we were singing the hook and just vibing.” Vocals for the track were recorded last October in a studio the group set up in its hotel room while in Zimbabwe.

Available now, “Reggae Night” is the second single from Morgan Heritage’s yet-untitled 11th studio album. It’s due this spring via the group’s own Cool To Be Conscious (CTBC) label. The project’s first single “Selah” was released last summer.

Adds Morgan, “We wanted to start the year off with a song to get people feeling good despite all that's going on in the world today.”

Morgan and his four siblings—Una Morgan (keyboard/vocals), Roy “Gramps” Morgan (keyboard/vocals), Nakhamyah “Lukes” Morgan (rhythm guitar) and Memmalatel “Mr. Mojo” Morgan (percussion/vocals)—will personally deliver that message when the quintet kicks off its world tour on Feb. 18 in Auckland, New Zealand. Additional tour dates will be announced in the weeks to come:

February 18 - Auckland, New Zealand - Raggamuffin Festival - The Trusts Arena

February 19 - Melbourne, Australia - Raggamuffin Allstar’s Tour - Margaret Court

February 21 - Sydney, Australia - Raggamuffin Allstar’s Tour - Hordern Pavilion

April 13 - Kampala, Uganda - Lugogo Cricket Oval

April 27 - Le Ferme, Martinique - Ferme Perrine

April 28 - Le Gosier, Guadaloupe - Palais Des Sports Du Gosier

April 29 - St Maarten - Carnival Village

May 3 - Antwerp, Belgium - De Roma

May 4 - Oxford, England - O2 Academy

May 5 - Manchester, England - The Ritz

May 6 - Birmingham, England - O2 Academy

May 7 - London England - O2 Forum Kentish Town

May 9 - Paris, France - La Cigale

May 10 - Amsterdam, Holland – Paradiso

May 20 - Nassau, Bahamas – Thomas Robinson Stadium Carnival Grounds