Mumps Outbreak Worsens in Washington State
Mumps Outbreak Worsens in Washington State
Shares               Cases of mumps in an ongoing outbreak in Washington state have continued to rise, with at least 298 likely or confirmed mumps cases, according to the state health department and the Spokane Regional Health District. There are at least 166 likely cases in King County, where Seattle is located, and 94 cases in Spokane, where at least 300 students were told to stay home due to concerns they were not up to date on their vaccinations, the health departments in those counties said Thursday. Approximately a two-thirds of those infected were vaccinated, but the mumps vaccine can wane over time. A full two doses of the vaccine provides approximately 88 percent protection, while a single dose can provide 78 percent protection, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ten cases were reported in King County in November, according to the county health department. “Because some people do not get lasting protection from the vaccine and mumps spreads easily from person to person, outbreaks can still occur in vaccinated populations," Dr. Jeff Duchin, health officer for public health, Seattle and King County, said in a statement earlier this month. "But, if unvaccinated, many, many, more people would become ill.”     A community should be between 75 to 86 percent vaccinated in order to prevent an outbreak of mumps, according to UNICEF . Mumps cases rose dramatically in the U.S. in 2016, with approximately 5,311 cases reported, according to the CDC. Eight states have reported an outbreak of 100 people or more. The virus famously can cause swelling of the salivary glands, causing a swollen jaw or face. Other symptoms include fever, headache , muscle aches and tiredness. In rare cases, it can cause swelling of the testes, ovaries, breasts or the brain. The state department of health is investigating the ongoing outbreak and testing possible new cases in the hopes of stopping the outbreak, officials said. Shares                  Mumps Outbreak Worsens in Washington State   Fatal Overdoses From Fentanyl Sold as Cocaine Detailed in Harrowing Report   Girl Surprised With Super Bowl Tickets After Being Treated for Rare Cancer   AMA, Other Medical Groups Say Trump's Order Could Significantly Affect System   In Chicago, Witnesses to Violence Turn to First Aid to Save Lives   6-Year-Old Girls Link Intelligence to Men Over Women, Study Says   Avian Flu Outbreaks Raise Concerns About Possible Pandemic   Seoul Virus Spread by Pet Rats Under Investigation in Multiple States   Teacher Aide Accused of Faking Cancer to Hide Criminal Past   More Chronically Ill Patients Have Health Insurance After ACA, Study Finds   11-Year-Old Boy Is One of the Youngest to Get Artificial Heart   Tom Price's Last Known Plan to Replace 'Obamacare'   Large Smoke Plume Seen After 2-Alarm Fire at NYC Hospital   Veteran With Double-Arm Transplant Shows Off Progress   Lawsuit Filed to Stop Texas Rule Requiring Burial for Fetal Tissue   Heroin Overdoses Kill More People Than HIV, Melanoma or Firearms   Tom Brady on Missing Super Bowl Jersey: If It Shows Up on eBay 'Let Me Know'   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands

Cases of mumps in an ongoing outbreak in Washington state have continued to rise, with at least 298 likely or confirmed mumps cases, according to the state health department and the Spokane Regional Health District.

There are at least 166 likely cases in King County, where Seattle is located, and 94 cases in Spokane, where at least 300 students were told to stay home due to concerns they were not up to date on their vaccinations, the health departments in those counties said Thursday.

Approximately a two-thirds of those infected were vaccinated, but the mumps vaccine can wane over time. A full two doses of the vaccine provides approximately 88 percent protection, while a single dose can provide 78 percent protection, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ten cases were reported in King County in November, according to the county health department.

“Because some people do not get lasting protection from the vaccine and mumps spreads easily from person to person, outbreaks can still occur in vaccinated populations," Dr. Jeff Duchin, health officer for public health, Seattle and King County, said in a statement earlier this month. "But, if unvaccinated, many, many, more people would become ill.”

A community should be between 75 to 86 percent vaccinated in order to prevent an outbreak of mumps, according to UNICEF.

Mumps cases rose dramatically in the U.S. in 2016, with approximately 5,311 cases reported, according to the CDC. Eight states have reported an outbreak of 100 people or more. The virus famously can cause swelling of the salivary glands, causing a swollen jaw or face. Other symptoms include fever, headache, muscle aches and tiredness. In rare cases, it can cause swelling of the testes, ovaries, breasts or the brain.

The state department of health is investigating the ongoing outbreak and testing possible new cases in the hopes of stopping the outbreak, officials said.