The Atlantic alliance has been renewed and revived
The Atlantic alliance has been renewed and revived
ow things have changed. A few months ago, Barack Obama came to Britain and told us that the UK would go to the back of the queue on future trade deals if it voted to the leave the EU. Yesterday, Theresa May and Donald Trump stood in the White House and heralded the beginning of a new era of military, political and economic cooperation. The two leaders were even photographed holding hands. The trans-Atlantic alliance is renewed. ometimes when British prime ministers go to Washington it is uncertain whether or not the president will even mention the special relationship. Mr Trump began by talking about it. It is, he said, “one of the great forces in history” – and he is absolutely right. Bonded by blood spilt in war, the two nations have stood side by side for a century, and this story clearly means a lot to Mr Trump, who is himself half-Scottish. A bust of Winston Churchill has been returned to the Oval Office; an invitation to visit the UK has been delivered on behalf of the Queen. The prospect of royal recognition is key to understanding what Mr Trump gets out of this. rs May confers credibility upon the new regime in Washington. The British Government understands why he won, she said, and that he wants to defend the interests of working people. And yet Mr Trump has faced isolation at home and abroad – people have challenged the legitimacy of his election win and suggested that he does not govern for all Americans. To be seen standing with Mrs May proves that his movement is understood by someone of importance, and that his status as leader of the free world is in no doubt. “I’m delighted to be able to congratulate you,” said the Prime Minister, “on what was a stunning election victory.” What does Britain get? The prospect of a free trade deal was, rightly, emphasised by Mrs May – it proves that there are plenty of economic opportunities for Britain outside of the EU. She also spoke about the military aspect of the special relationship. Mrs May announced that Mr Trump has reassured her in private that the United States values Nato and that it will continue to lead it. The role of Britain, as it was in the past, is once again to steady the powerful American ship, if it threatens to veer off course into dangerous waters. he effect upon these two vastly different personalities was striking. Mr Trump usually comes across as aggressive and rude. On this occasion he was charming and witty. “I’m a people person,” he said, “and I think you are too, Theresa. I think we’re going to have a fantastic relationship.” For her part, Mrs May was as precise and steely as ever. There will be disagreement between the two nations, but it will be civil and behind closed doors: “I’ve been listening to the president and the president has been listening to me,” said the Prime Minister. “That’s the point of having a dialogue.” Nevertheless, Mrs May highlighted the points they have in common when it comes to philosophy and purpose. Both she and Mr Trump are trying to re-orientate conservatism towards a more populist agenda, to emphasise the importance of the nation state and to reconnect with the working-class. In Washington she, too, has found validation for her strategy. She has also found a far more welcoming atmosphere than exists in Europe. In December footage emerged of her apparently being ignored at a conference in Brussels – a damning indictment of the potential isolation left by Brexit. ears of isolation can now be swept aside. “I think Brexit is going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” said the president. “You’re going to have your own identity and you’re going to be able to make your own trade deals.” That’s a direct and welcome contradiction to Mr Obama’s attitude. It brings back to mind the most constructive relationship of the post-war era, between Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. Although Number 10 has been reluctant to encourage such comparison, it does the two leaders credit that they have been able to revive the Atlantic alliance in a similarly coherent, dynamic manner. And the rest of the world will be grateful that Britain is exerting such a rational influence upon Washington. It would be nice if the admiring talk about Vladimir Putin could end. Indeed, the two leaders now face enormous challenges: writing a trade deal, facing down Islamist terrorism – which Mrs May indicated was critical to her vision for the partnership – and limiting the power of Moscow. It is not only in British interests that these talks should have gone so well but, as a new chapter is written, something that benefits the entire Western alliance. All those who said that Brexit would shatter the solidarity of democratic nations now look very foolish indeed. As Mr Trump said: “Great days lie ahead for our two countries.”

Mrs May confers credibility upon the new regime in Washington. The British Government understands why he won, she said, and that he wants to defend the interests of working people. And yet Mr Trump has faced isolation at home and abroad – people have challenged the legitimacy of his election win and suggested that he does not govern for all Americans. To be seen standing with Mrs May proves that his movement is understood by someone of importance, and that his status as leader of the free world is in no doubt. “I’m delighted to be able to congratulate you,” said the Prime Minister, “on what was a stunning election victory.”

What does Britain get? The prospect of a free trade deal was, rightly, emphasised by Mrs May – it proves that there are plenty of economic opportunities for Britain outside of the EU. She also spoke about the military aspect of the special relationship. Mrs May announced that Mr Trump has reassured her in private that the United States values Nato and that it will continue to lead it. The role of Britain, as it was in the past, is once again to steady the powerful American ship, if it threatens to veer off course into dangerous waters.