Chugging Water Between Meals? You Could Be Harming Your Digestive System
Do You Know Why You Should Not Chug Water Between Meals?
Chugging Water Between Meals? You Could Be Harming Your Digestive System The worse thing we can do to our digestive system is chug water in between meals. Why? Because it can severely hamper our stomach's digestive power and even cause insulin levels to fluctuate significantly. Our body has an amazing system that automatically works efficiently and so that it does its optimum best, you should know the right time to drink water. You can do this by staying more in tune with your body's rhythm and realise when you're thirsty. Usually most of us drink water to wash down the food we just ate or when the food's too spicy and your tongue's burning up. It's time we realised this is not the best practise. Our stomach is tuned in a way that it has a knack of knowing when you will eat and automatically starts releasing digestive juices. According to many experts if you start drinking water at the same time when your stomach is releasing digestive juices it can hinder the natural process of breaking down the food. Research has shown that sipping a little water between meals isn't cause for concern, but chugging glass upon glass, while eating, might just be. It is advisable to drink fluids before and two hours post meals as this helps in the absorption of nutrients. How to break the habit of drinking water between meals? 1. Make sure your food is not too salty or spicy because that can heighten your thirst and trigger the need to down water. 2. Take out enough time to eat your meal because hurry will cause you to gulp your food down. 3. Chew your food properly because we secrete a lot of digestive juices while chewing, which makes our stomach's job easier. 4. Always keep some water within reach whenever possible and take frequent sips throughout the day, so that you don't gulp it down all at once.

The worse thing we can do to our digestive system is chug water in between meals. Why? Because it can severely hamper our stomach's digestive power and even cause insulin levels to fluctuate significantly.

cdn.macaro-ni.jp

Our body has an amazing system that automatically works efficiently and so that it does its optimum best, you should know the right time to drink water. You can do this by staying more in tune with your body's rhythm and realise when you're thirsty.

greatist.com

Usually most of us drink water to wash down the food we just ate or when the food's too spicy and your tongue's burning up. It's time we realised this is not the best practise. Our stomach is tuned in a way that it has a knack of knowing when you will eat and automatically starts releasing digestive juices.

According to many experts if you start drinking water at the same time when your stomach is releasing digestive juices it can hinder the natural process of breaking down the food.

Research has shown that sipping a little water between meals isn't cause for concern, but chugging glass upon glass, while eating, might just be. It is advisable to drink fluids before and two hours post meals as this helps in the absorption of nutrients.

popsugar-assets.com

How to break the habit of drinking water between meals?

1. Make sure your food is not too salty or spicy because that can heighten your thirst and trigger the need to down water.

2. Take out enough time to eat your meal because hurry will cause you to gulp your food down.

3. Chew your food properly because we secrete a lot of digestive juices while chewing, which makes our stomach's job easier.

4. Always keep some water within reach whenever possible and take frequent sips throughout the day, so that you don't gulp it down all at once.