Super talented dad transforms his sons' drawings into beautiful artwork
Super talented dad transforms his sons' drawings into beautiful artwork
For one family, artwork done by the kids doesn't just go up on the fridge. It gets turned into full on illustrations done by a professional artist. SEE ALSO: This artwork combining Superman and Facebook is so on point Thomas Romain is an professional artist and animator in Tokyo. After several years of purely using digital tools to do his illustrations, he found himself missing the feeling that comes from drawing the old-school way — simple pencil and paint on paper. That's when he truly noticed what his sons were doing. "I was surprised by my sons' drawings," Romain told . "I thought they were very cool — the color, the shapes, the ideas and looking at them inspired me." He decided to use the children's drawings as the basis for some of his own. Image:  Thomas romain With his sons' drawings as a catalyst, Romain decided to use paint and paper to give the drawings his own professional spin. The results are astounding. Image:  thomas romain Romain encourages his 8-year-old and 10-year-old sons to draw. "I bought them a sketchbook recently. Also I often show them the project I'm working on," he said. "I don't think they are into drawing as much as I was at their age, but they are enjoying it from time to time." Romain hoped that his take on their art would encourage their creativity. "I wanted to redraw them with my own professional skills to make them proud of their own creativity, and simply to have fun," said Romain about his work. "I thought it would be very interesting to compare the two artworks at the end, too." "Interesting" is an understatement. Romain's side-by-side displays of his artwork paired with his sons' original drawings are truly marvelous. Image:  thomas romain Image:  thomas romain "My sons were really impressed by the result. They loved it," stated Romain. "So I told them to create more drawings for me, and we started a series." His sons are not the only ones who love Romain's drawings. Many different websites have featured the series, and Romain has gained more and more followers eager to see more. Romain was not at all expecting it to go viral so soon. When asked if he has told his sons about how popular their drawings have gotten, Romain said that he has shared the news with them to a certain extent. "I have told my sons that the drawings were shared all over the world, but I don't think that they are really aware of the impact," he said "I don't want to expose them too much as well. I want them to continue drawing naturally, just for fun." Image:  thomas romain Image:  thomas romain A child's imagination is a powerful, precious thing and Romain has plans to continue to help his children's imagination grow. Ideally, he would like for this project to turn into a full-fledged book and has plans to contact publishers. Until then, he will continue to give his sons' drawings a professional makeover and is currently at work on the fifth piece in the series. "I plan to continue at the same pace (one per week, more or less) and share it to my followers," assured Romain. Image:  thomas romain Image:  thomas romain If you would like to follow along with this heartwarming project, Romain will be posting future art on his Twitter page . BONUS: Animal artists paint for charity (and treats)

For one family, artwork done by the kids doesn't just go up on the fridge. It gets turned into full on illustrations done by a professional artist.

SEE ALSO: This artwork combining Superman and Facebook is so on point

Thomas Romain is an professional artist and animator in Tokyo. After several years of purely using digital tools to do his illustrations, he found himself missing the feeling that comes from drawing the old-school way — simple pencil and paint on paper.

That's when he truly noticed what his sons were doing.

"I was surprised by my sons' drawings," Romain told Mashable. "I thought they were very cool — the color, the shapes, the ideas and looking at them inspired me."

He decided to use the children's drawings as the basis for some of his own.

Image: Thomas romain

With his sons' drawings as a catalyst, Romain decided to use paint and paper to give the drawings his own professional spin. The results are astounding.

Image: thomas romain

Romain encourages his 8-year-old and 10-year-old sons to draw.

"I bought them a sketchbook recently. Also I often show them the project I'm working on," he said. "I don't think they are into drawing as much as I was at their age, but they are enjoying it from time to time."

Romain hoped that his take on their art would encourage their creativity.

"I wanted to redraw them with my own professional skills to make them proud of their own creativity, and simply to have fun," said Romain about his work. "I thought it would be very interesting to compare the two artworks at the end, too."

"Interesting" is an understatement. Romain's side-by-side displays of his artwork paired with his sons' original drawings are truly marvelous.

Image: thomas romain Image: thomas romain

"My sons were really impressed by the result. They loved it," stated Romain. "So I told them to create more drawings for me, and we started a series."

His sons are not the only ones who love Romain's drawings. Many different websites have featured the series, and Romain has gained more and more followers eager to see more. Romain was not at all expecting it to go viral so soon.

When asked if he has told his sons about how popular their drawings have gotten, Romain said that he has shared the news with them to a certain extent.

"I have told my sons that the drawings were shared all over the world, but I don't think that they are really aware of the impact," he said "I don't want to expose them too much as well. I want them to continue drawing naturally, just for fun."

Image: thomas romain Image: thomas romain

A child's imagination is a powerful, precious thing and Romain has plans to continue to help his children's imagination grow. Ideally, he would like for this project to turn into a full-fledged book and has plans to contact publishers.

Until then, he will continue to give his sons' drawings a professional makeover and is currently at work on the fifth piece in the series.

"I plan to continue at the same pace (one per week, more or less) and share it to my followers," assured Romain.

Image: thomas romain Image: thomas romain

If you would like to follow along with this heartwarming project, Romain will be posting future art on his Twitter page.