Adorable police pug will handcuff you with his cuteness
Adorable police pug will handcuff you with his cuteness
Not every dog can make it as a police dog. SEE ALSO: Study shows dogs love reggae, my dudes Police dogs have to be highly intelligent and trainable. They are generally medium to large in size. They have great stamina and endurance. These attributes don't really apply to pugs. Pugs are small, round and cute. They don't really scream authoritative or police work. However, that didn't stop the Rochester Police Department from welcoming a pug into the police family. Cops posted a picture of Hercules the pug to the department's Facebook page, and the cutest police dog that ever was went viral. "He's a sucker for a belly rub and does not enjoy running," reads the description of Hercules. This makes sense, as everyone knows a good police dog has to be relatable to the people. The Rochester Police Department did make sure to let everyone know that Hercules is not actually part of the K9 Unit. He just belongs to the policeman pictured in the photo, and they snapped the photo of the two of them together when Hercules visited the station. But even though this was all in the spirit of fun, Hercules will always be a police dog in our hearts. We just feel safer knowing his squishy face is out there, making sure all loose treats are brought to justice. BONUS: Doggy tour bus shows adventurous pups the sights of London

Not every dog can make it as a police dog.

Police dogs have to be highly intelligent and trainable. They are generally medium to large in size. They have great stamina and endurance.

These attributes don't really apply to pugs. Pugs are small, round and cute. They don't really scream authoritative or police work.

However, that didn't stop the Rochester Police Department from welcoming a pug into the police family. Cops posted a picture of Hercules the pug to the department's Facebook page, and the cutest police dog that ever was went viral.

"He's a sucker for a belly rub and does not enjoy running," reads the description of Hercules. This makes sense, as everyone knows a good police dog has to be relatable to the people.

The Rochester Police Department did make sure to let everyone know that Hercules is not actually part of the K9 Unit. He just belongs to the policeman pictured in the photo, and they snapped the photo of the two of them together when Hercules visited the station.

But even though this was all in the spirit of fun, Hercules will always be a police dog in our hearts. We just feel safer knowing his squishy face is out there, making sure all loose treats are brought to justice.