A Slow Brew at Starbucks
A Slow Brew at Starbucks
A Slow Brew at Starbucks   Consumer  Shelly Banjo is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering retail and consumer goods. She previously was a reporter at Quartz and the Wall Street Journal.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  True coffee connoisseurs know it takes time and patience to brew the perfect cup of joe. Starbucks Corp. shares fell 4 percent in after-hours trading Thursday after the earnings report failed to deliver results in line with analyst forecasts for the fifth quarter in a row. The coffee chain also lowered revenue estimates for the coming year, citing depressed customer traffic in the U.S. and bottlenecks caused by too many customers ordering drinks online and waiting in stores to pick them up. Numbers like that don't sit well with investors: Last year, Starbucks posted its first annual share decline since 2008. Some context shows that it's a bit too soon to count the coffee chain out, however. The stock, which closely tracked its restaurant peers from 2007 until early 2015, actually outperformed the rest of the U.S. restaurant industry, which fell into a deep malaise last year as consumers started spending more of their money at grocery stores and eating out less. And Starbucks brought more customers in its doors than competitors did, even as sales growth at existing locations slowed from a historic same-store growth rate of 5 percent. There's no question Starbucks has some major work to do . McDonald's and other fast-food outlets are siphoning off Starbucks's lower-end customers, while Blue Bottle and other hipster-friendly coffee roasters are taking business away from the high end. Meanwhile, Starbucks is still struggling to persuade customers to take more sandwiches and cookies with their lattes and cappuccinos. And it has acknowledged that adding mobile ordering and pickup locations, drive-through stations, and higher-end coffee and drink bars to its mix is complicating store operations, slowing down employees, and confusing some customers. The shares still look vulnerable: At 26.1 times forward earnings, right around the five-year historical multiple of 26.4, Starbucks stock trades above Dunkin' Brands Group Inc. and McDonald's Corp., on 21.2 and 19.7 times forward earnings, respectively. Don't write off Starbucks's promises to return to its historical pace of growth, though. The newly announced Chief Executive Officer Kevin Johnson, who has the potential to shake things up and fix some nagging problems, doesn't officially take the top job until April. Until then, he's unlikely to break with the status quo. Starbucks's successful expansion across the Asia-Pacific region -- including China, where it's opening a new store every 15 hours -- will become even more important as customer traffic in the U.S. slows. Mobile payments make up 27 percent of Starbucks's U.S. transactions, and WeChat transactions account for one-fifth of purchases in China, so the chain's tech prowess remains well ahead of competitors. That's an important differentiator when technology is increasingly determining the restaurant industry's winners and losers. Change doesn't happen overnight. This one could be a slow brew. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at sbanjo@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at psillitoe@bloomberg.net Google Play's Starting Spot in China's Market Lukewarm Welcome  Google Won't Play in China   Tech  Stock Surge Revisionist History  Gary Cohn Doesn't Need a Time Machine   Markets  Curves Showing Not So Fast  JPMorgan's China News Is Great...for China   Markets  Rising Expectations Twin Bills  Rising Rates Spare No Bonds   Markets  Who's The Monster? Deliverance  Gas Bulls: Here Comes the Monster   Energy  Bling Ding Leap of Faith  What Tiffany Can Learn From Lady Gaga   Consumer  Inn Favor Luxury Fightback  Beating Airbnb With Its Own Weapons   Consumer  Ryanair's average fare Airline Woes  Ryanair's Fare Haircut   Industrials  Online audience Virtual Profit  eSports Is a Losing Game for Old Media   Tech  Takata shares, YTD Deflated  Takata's Chinese White Knight Maybe Isn't   Deals  Bottomless Ditch Sink or swim  Wrestling With Life Support in Singapore   Markets  Tax Tremors UNRAVELING TRADE  Wall Street Needs Those Cheap Suits   Consumer  Scant Reward As Good As It Gets  Oil's Promised Land Slips Away on OPEC Leaks   Energy  Potential Lost Productivity After Super Bowl Hail Mary  Super Bowl Monday Should Be the New Black Friday  Macy's Market Cap No More Miracles  R.I.P., Macy's?   Consumer  Safe and Sound? First Step  On the Road to Dead-Frank   Finance  Spiking Heart Smart  Repatha Will Test the New Drug Pricing Reality   Health  Put A Ring On It  Gold's Trump Card Isn't Trump   Commodities  Not Cheap Too Soon  The Problem With Snapchat's IPO   Tech  Cool-Down Machinations  Planes, Trains and Caution Flags   Industrials  Political Risk  Fear and Loathing in Private Equity   Deals  Hunting for Yield Debt Mask  A Synthetic CDO by Any Other Name Is Still Risky   Markets  Greggsit Britain  Let Them Eat Sausage   Consumer  Outsized Robot Cars  Blessed Are the Chipmakers   Tech  Thin Cushion Yurt Hurt  Don't Play With Mongolian Fire   Markets

True coffee connoisseurs know it takes time and patience to brew the perfect cup of joe.

Starbucks Corp. shares fell 4 percent in after-hours trading Thursday after the earnings report failed to deliver results in line with analyst forecasts for the fifth quarter in a row. The coffee chain also lowered revenue estimates for the coming year, citing depressed customer traffic in the U.S. and bottlenecks caused by too many customers ordering drinks online and waiting in stores to pick them up.

Caffeine Jolt Starbucks shares posted their first annual drop since 2008 but still outperformed the restaurant industry Source: Bloomberg

Numbers like that don't sit well with investors: Last year, Starbucks posted its first annual share decline since 2008.

Some context shows that it's a bit too soon to count the coffee chain out, however. The stock, which closely tracked its restaurant peers from 2007 until early 2015, actually outperformed the rest of the U.S. restaurant industry, which fell into a deep malaise last year as consumers started spending more of their money at grocery stores and eating out less.

And Starbucks brought more customers in its doors than competitors did, even as sales growth at existing locations slowed from a historic same-store growth rate of 5 percent.

It's All Relative While sales growth at existing Starbucks locations slowed, it's still outpacing the restaurant industry Source: Bloomberg

There's no question Starbucks has some major work to do.

McDonald's and other fast-food outlets are siphoning off Starbucks's lower-end customers, while Blue Bottle and other hipster-friendly coffee roasters are taking business away from the high end.

Meanwhile, Starbucks is still struggling to persuade customers to take more sandwiches and cookies with their lattes and cappuccinos. And it has acknowledged that adding mobile ordering and pickup locations, drive-through stations, and higher-end coffee and drink bars to its mix is complicating store operations, slowing down employees, and confusing some customers.

Starbucks forward P/E 26.1x

The shares still look vulnerable: At 26.1 times forward earnings, right around the five-year historical multiple of 26.4, Starbucks stock trades above Dunkin' Brands Group Inc. and McDonald's Corp., on 21.2 and 19.7 times forward earnings, respectively.

Don't write off Starbucks's promises to return to its historical pace of growth, though.

The newly announced Chief Executive Officer Kevin Johnson, who has the potential to shake things up and fix some nagging problems, doesn't officially take the top job until April. Until then, he's unlikely to break with the status quo.

Starbucks's successful expansion across the Asia-Pacific region -- including China, where it's opening a new store every 15 hours -- will become even more important as customer traffic in the U.S. slows.

Store Count Starbucks aims to get up to 37,000 stores by 2021, which would overtake McDonald's store footprint Source: Bloomberg

Mobile payments make up 27 percent of Starbucks's U.S. transactions, and WeChat transactions account for one-fifth of purchases in China, so the chain's tech prowess remains well ahead of competitors. That's an important differentiator when technology is increasingly determining the restaurant industry's winners and losers.

Change doesn't happen overnight. This one could be a slow brew.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Shelly Banjo in New York at sbanjo@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Paul Sillitoe at psillitoe@bloomberg.net