Abhinav Bindra To Spot Future Olympic Winners For India, Appointed Chairman Of New TOP Committee
Abhinav Bindra To Spot Future Olympic Winners For India, Appointed Chairman Of New TOP Committe
Abhinav Bindra To Spot Future Olympic Winners For India, Appointed Chairman Of New TOP Committee Beijing Olympics gold-medallist shooter Abhinav Bindra joined the re-constituted Target Olympic Podium (TOP) committee, as its chairman. Bindra was part of the previous committee but quit to focus on his preparations for the 2016 Rio Olympics. The two other sportspersons in the 10-member panel are shooter Anjali Bhagwat and woman weightlifter Karnam Malleswari, the 2000 Sydney Olympics bronze-medallist. The remaining five members are All India Tennis Association (AITA) life president Anil Khanna, boxing administrator P K Muralidharan Raja, Railways Sports Promotion Board secretary Rekha Yadav, SS Roy, ED (Teams) SAI and joint secretary (sports) Inder Dhamija. "Committee will decide on its own procedures and will be competent to invite subject experts as and when required. The initial tenure of the committee will be one year from the date of notification," a ministry press release stated. The committee has the objective of identifying and supporting potential medal prospects for 2020 and 2024 Olympic Games under the TOP scheme, which was formulated keeping in mind the 2016 and 2020 Olympic Games.

Beijing Olympics gold-medallist shooter Abhinav Bindra joined the re-constituted Target Olympic Podium (TOP) committee, as its chairman. Bindra was part of the previous committee but quit to focus on his preparations for the 2016 Rio Olympics.

BCCL

The two other sportspersons in the 10-member panel are shooter Anjali Bhagwat and woman weightlifter Karnam Malleswari, the 2000 Sydney Olympics bronze-medallist.

The remaining five members are All India Tennis Association (AITA) life president Anil Khanna, boxing administrator P K Muralidharan Raja, Railways Sports Promotion Board secretary Rekha Yadav, SS Roy, ED (Teams) SAI and joint secretary (sports) Inder Dhamija.

BCCL

"Committee will decide on its own procedures and will be competent to invite subject experts as and when required. The initial tenure of the committee will be one year from the date of notification," a ministry press release stated.

The committee has the objective of identifying and supporting potential medal prospects for 2020 and 2024 Olympic Games under the TOP scheme, which was formulated keeping in mind the 2016 and 2020 Olympic Games.