Taylor Swift Calls Zayn 'Really Special' in 'I Don't Wanna Live Forever' Behind-the-Scenes Video
Taylor Swift Calls Zayn 'Really Special' in 'I Don't Wanna Live Forever' Behind-the-Scenes Video
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Taylor Swift Calls Zayn 'Really Special' in 'I Don't Wanna Live Forever' Behind-the-Scenes Video  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Taylor Swift is singing Zayn Malik 's praises over their new hit "I Don't Wanna Live Forever" with a behind-the-scenes video she shared on Friday (Jan. 27). "I've known Zayn for a really long time," Swift says in the Instagram clip that was filmed while shooting the "I Don't Wanna Live Forever" music video that was released at midnight EST. "I think his voice is one of those that is really rare and I think he's really special and wonderful and it's really, really amazing to get to work together." "I Don't Wanna Live Forever," which will appear on the soundtrack, currently sits at No. 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 (dated Feb. 4), two spots shy of its peak when it debuted at No. 6 on the chart dated Dec. 31.  "It's amazing when you get to work with people who you hang out with because the question of 'Will we get along?' is already answered. 'Yeah, we'll get along. It's Zayn. We hang out, like, it's fine,'" continued Swift, who is close friends with Malik's girlfriend Gigi Hadid and used to date the former One Direction singer's once bandmate Harry Styles . "He's also incredibly talented and I feel really lucky to get to do this song that I'm really proud of with him and with [director Grant Singer] and everybody involved. It's been amazing." Malik added, "We finally got to have our first glass of Jameson together. It was very good." Cheers! #idontwannaliveforever #fiftyshadesdarker A video posted by Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Taylor Swift is singing Zayn Malik's praises over their new hit "I Don't Wanna Live Forever" with a behind-the-scenes video she shared on Friday (Jan. 27).

"I've known Zayn for a really long time," Swift says in the Instagram clip that was filmed while shooting the "I Don't Wanna Live Forever" music video that was released at midnight EST. "I think his voice is one of those that is really rare and I think he's really special and wonderful and it's really, really amazing to get to work together."

"I Don't Wanna Live Forever," which will appear on the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack, currently sits at No. 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 (dated Feb. 4), two spots shy of its peak when it debuted at No. 6 on the chart dated Dec. 31.

"It's amazing when you get to work with people who you hang out with because the question of 'Will we get along?' is already answered. 'Yeah, we'll get along. It's Zayn. We hang out, like, it's fine,'" continued Swift, who is close friends with Malik's girlfriend Gigi Hadid and used to date the former One Direction singer's once bandmate Harry Styles. "He's also incredibly talented and I feel really lucky to get to do this song that I'm really proud of with him and with [director Grant Singer] and everybody involved. It's been amazing."

Malik added, "We finally got to have our first glass of Jameson together. It was very good."

Cheers!