Muslim group subtly trolls Trump with 'Making America Great' billboards
Muslim group subtly trolls Trump with 'Making America Great' billboards
A Muslim group has emulated Donald Trump's "MAGA" font and design very closely for their own billboard campaign promoting love, compassion and mercy. SEE ALSO: Watch this stirring pro-Muslim American PSA, produced by Katy Perry Instead of Trump's "Make America Great Again" slogan, the American Muslim Community Centers (AMCC) organization in Florida has dropped the word "again" and is spreading a message of acceptance for the Muslim-American community. The sign, using a similar font and design as Trump's campaign materials, advocates "Making America Great with love, compassion, and mercy." 'Make America Great Again' billboard backed by Muslim group https://t.co/RBqrzTifjZ  pic.twitter.com/ziOWSfM3ct — M.Fachrurazi (@xAzinimous) January 26, 2017 The ad also lists the number and website for the Muslim advocacy group, WhyIslam.org , which was created in 1999 through the Islamic Circle of North America. AMCC, which paid for the billboards on two Florida highways, told CNN reporters that the signs are way to remind the community that Muslim-Americans care about their fellow Americans. reached out to the AMCC for more information on the signs. Donald Trump supporters pose with a "Make America Great Again" poster. Image:  Alessandro Vecchi/picture-alliance/dpa/AP Images The Why Islam project has been running billboard campaigns for many years, according to its site . The ads, featuring their 24/7 hotline number and website, have been plastered on highways across the country, as one of many methods to spread word about the religion. The signs come after Trump has come down hard on Muslims during his campaign and into his first week as president. ACLU statement on #POTUS  #Trump 's “extreme vetting of Muslims” action. #FridayFeeling  #ccsdachieves  #PublicDemandsAVoice  pic.twitter.com/KpyYRM3rXu — Jacob Goldstein (@GoldsteinStreet) January 27, 2017 While campaigning Trump championed the idea of a Muslim registry. On Friday, he signed an executive action limiting the flow of refugees and implementing "new vetting measures" that he says are aimed at keeping "radical Islamic terrorists" out of the United States. BONUS: Here's a clip of Kellyanne Conway's previous (and mercifully brief) career in stand-up comedy

A Muslim group has emulated Donald Trump's "MAGA" font and design very closely for their own billboard campaign promoting love, compassion and mercy.

Instead of Trump's "Make America Great Again" slogan, the American Muslim Community Centers (AMCC) organization in Florida has dropped the word "again" and is spreading a message of acceptance for the Muslim-American community.

The sign, using a similar font and design as Trump's campaign materials, advocates "Making America Great with love, compassion, and mercy."

The ad also lists the number and website for the Muslim advocacy group, WhyIslam.org, which was created in 1999 through the Islamic Circle of North America.

AMCC, which paid for the billboards on two Florida highways, told CNN reporters that the signs are way to remind the community that Muslim-Americans care about their fellow Americans.

Mashable reached out to the AMCC for more information on the signs.

Donald Trump supporters pose with a "Make America Great Again" poster. Image: Alessandro Vecchi/picture-alliance/dpa/AP Images

The Why Islam project has been running billboard campaigns for many years, according to its site. The ads, featuring their 24/7 hotline number and website, have been plastered on highways across the country, as one of many methods to spread word about the religion.

The signs come after Trump has come down hard on Muslims during his campaign and into his first week as president.

While campaigning Trump championed the idea of a Muslim registry. On Friday, he signed an executive action limiting the flow of refugees and implementing "new vetting measures" that he says are aimed at keeping "radical Islamic terrorists" out of the United States.