Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Maroon 5 & Dave Matthews to Headline New Orleans Jazz Fest
Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Maroon 5 & Dave Matthews to Headline New Orleans Jazz Fest
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Maroon 5 & Dave Matthews to Headline New Orleans Jazz Fest  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Stevie Wonder , Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers, Maroon 5 and Dave Matthews are among some of the big names playing at this year's New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival. The lineup was announced Friday (Jan. 27). Organizers said more than 500 bands will be performing at the festival, which features a diverse array of musical styles.  Some of the other artists appearing including Snoop Dogg , Alabama Shakes , Kings of Leon , Pitbull and Widespread Panic . The festival also features a huge number of artists from Louisiana and New Orleans, such as the Hot 8 Brass Band and Ellis Marsalis. This year's festival will also spotlight Cuba, including performances by Cuban artists and a special area to highlight Cuban food, music and arts and crafts. The festival takes place April 28-30 and May 4-7.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Stevie Wonder performs onÂ May 27, 2016Â in Napa, Calif.

Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers, Maroon 5 and Dave Matthews are among some of the big names playing at this year's New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival.

The lineup was announced Friday (Jan. 27).

Organizers said more than 500 bands will be performing at the festival, which features a diverse array of musical styles.

Some of the other artists appearing including Snoop Dogg, Alabama Shakes, Kings of Leon, Pitbull and Widespread Panic.

The festival also features a huge number of artists from Louisiana and New Orleans, such as the Hot 8 Brass Band and Ellis Marsalis.

This year's festival will also spotlight Cuba, including performances by Cuban artists and a special area to highlight Cuban food, music and arts and crafts.

The festival takes place April 28-30 and May 4-7.