Reform Agenda For The Department Of Homeland Security
Reform Agenda For The Department Of Homeland Security
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Capital Flows       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Vice President Mike Pence (L) watches General John Kelly (C) signs his conformation letter as U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security on January 20, 2017. (JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images) Newly confirmed Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly will have a full plate. He needs to be postured in these first days to respond to all conceivable man-made or natural events in the homeland, prevent threats from entering the homeland, and continue to harden critical infrastructure against physical and network threats. Reforming the Department seems like a second-tier priority, but it is not. Success depends on maximizing the Department’s capabilities. Investment in internal reform will posture the Secretary—and the nation—for long-term success. Previous Secretaries, especially Michael Chertoff and Jeh Johnson, deserve great credit for making DHS a stronger whole. They increased cross-component collaboration, invested in strategic planning, and advanced seemingly mundane management concepts like establishing joint requirements and program review processes. The incoming Secretary should build on these successes and focus on high-impact improvements that can be achieved relatively quickly, especially where congressional support is necessary. I’ve had the honor of working directly with General Kelly when he was Commander of United States Southern Command, and know him to be focused, energetic, intelligent and strategic. He is an outstanding candidate for the job. Secretary Kelly should act quickly to expedite headquarters consolidation, complete the stand up of a new cyber and physical critical infrastructure operational component, and make fully operational a DHS data-sharing, secure-storage and big-data analytics tool to legally maximize the likelihood of threat identification and prevention. DHS has achieved some baseline, internal management capabilities. It is closer to being a more “normal” headquarters focused on maximizing efficiencies, communicating and partnering with the federal interagency, and state, local and private sector partner, and presenting a unified position to the governmental interagency. DHS now establishes strategic priorities for the homeland security enterprise, captures them in guidance called the Quadrennial Homeland Security Review and conducts individual program reviews. It has a DHS-wide Operations Center (along with an independent FEMA Operations Center), joint campaign plans for the nation’s southwest border, and shares appropriate information with law enforcement, non-federal stakeholders, and the intelligence community. Secretary Johnson’s “Unity of Effort” initiative established a leadership council, cross-component requirements and review boards to improve DHS buying power and joint operations. Having served at senior levels at the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and on Capitol Hill, I know how easy it is to be distracted by the tyranny of the immediacy. I appreciate how fast initiatives and ideas flow at the beginning of an administration. It will be easy to say in these first days that management reform is a priority, but much harder to push through the most important changes during the critical first 100 days of office. Yet, it is these first 100 days that could make or break chances for success. General John Kelly, USMC (Ret.) is sworn in to testify at the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing on January 10, 2017. (TASOS KATOPODIS/AFP/Getty Images) The incoming Secretary should prioritize the following “top three,” high-consequence management initiatives. DHS leadership is spread across the Washington, D.C. metro area, and physical co-location is essential to organizational coherence. Other than the famous separate addresses for the Attorney-General and ostensibly subordinate Director of FBI, all other national security agencies, such as the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and the Departments of State, Defense and Treasury have cohesive headquarters locations. DHS is on the slow road to headquarters consolidation. Congress has repeatedly slashed and deferred funds to build out the massive new headquarters complex in southeast Washington. Originally slated to open in 2015 and house more than 17,000 personnel, the full move will not occur until at least 2021, and have desk space for just 12,000 employees. DHS is the lead federal agency for securing the nation’s .com and .gov cyber networks, and for securing the nation’s critical infrastructure and key resources (CIKR). DHS is, therefore, the nation’s front line in countering gray zone/hybrid attacks against the homeland. Yet, there is no DHS operating component that has this national security priority mission as its core mission. DHS is awaiting congressional action to finalize its formal proposal to fix this yawning organizational gap. No one federal department or agency has the authorities or capabilities to defend the nation’s critical infrastructure from all physical and network threats, but the private sector (which owns and operates 90% of the nation’s infrastructure) needs a clear, well-defined primary federal point of contact. Absent a central hub, the ever-important public-private sector partnership will not have a chance at optimization. DHS seeks, but still lacks, the commercially available tools to effectively identify trends and patterns across all the information it collects in support of its homeland security missions. Closing this gap is a matter of policy and acquisition, not technology. DHS deserves credit for recognizing this to be a key element of its “Analytic Agenda,” but its inability to connect its internal component dots at the enterprise level is a dangerous gap that will not be explainable should there be another major attack in the homeland that could have been, but was not, identified beforehand by big data analytics. Progress at DHS is real, but wholly insufficient. DHS has mission one for the United States: protecting the homeland from, and responding to, man-made and natural threats. We, the American people, need DHS to succeed. A successful DHS will deter terrorism and threats to critical infrastructure. A successful DHS will make our cyber networks more secure. A successful DHS will save lives in the aftermath of major disruptions. It will be up to the new Secretary to maximize the success of the organization and to keep the reform process moving forward.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Newly confirmed Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly will have a full plate. He needs to be postured in these first days to respond to all conceivable man-made or natural events in the homeland, prevent threats from entering the homeland, and continue to harden critical infrastructure against physical and network threats. Reforming the Department seems like a second-tier priority, but it is not. Success depends on maximizing the Department’s capabilities.

Investment in internal reform will posture the Secretary—and the nation—for long-term success. Previous Secretaries, especially Michael Chertoff and Jeh Johnson, deserve great credit for making DHS a stronger whole. They increased cross-component collaboration, invested in strategic planning, and advanced seemingly mundane management concepts like establishing joint requirements and program review processes.

Watch On Forbes: Why Water-Related Investments Are A Good Bet

The incoming Secretary should build on these successes and focus on high-impact improvements that can be achieved relatively quickly, especially where congressional support is necessary. I’ve had the honor of working directly with General Kelly when he was Commander of United States Southern Command, and know him to be focused, energetic, intelligent and strategic. He is an outstanding candidate for the job.

Secretary Kelly should act quickly to expedite headquarters consolidation, complete the stand up of a new cyber and physical critical infrastructure operational component, and make fully operational a DHS data-sharing, secure-storage and big-data analytics tool to legally maximize the likelihood of threat identification and prevention.

DHS has achieved some baseline, internal management capabilities. It is closer to being a more “normal” headquarters focused on maximizing efficiencies, communicating and partnering with the federal interagency, and state, local and private sector partner, and presenting a unified position to the governmental interagency. DHS now establishes strategic priorities for the homeland security enterprise, captures them in guidance called the Quadrennial Homeland Security Review and conducts individual program reviews. It has a DHS-wide Operations Center (along with an independent FEMA Operations Center), joint campaign plans for the nation’s southwest border, and shares appropriate information with law enforcement, non-federal stakeholders, and the intelligence community. Secretary Johnson’s “Unity of Effort” initiative established a leadership council, cross-component requirements and review boards to improve DHS buying power and joint operations.

Having served at senior levels at the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and on Capitol Hill, I know how easy it is to be distracted by the tyranny of the immediacy. I appreciate how fast initiatives and ideas flow at the beginning of an administration. It will be easy to say in these first days that management reform is a priority, but much harder to push through the most important changes during the critical first 100 days of office. Yet, it is these first 100 days that could make or break chances for success.

The incoming Secretary should prioritize the following “top three,” high-consequence management initiatives.

1. Expedite headquarters consolidation.

DHS leadership is spread across the Washington, D.C. metro area, and physical co-location is essential to organizational coherence. Other than the famous separate addresses for the Attorney-General and ostensibly subordinate Director of FBI, all other national security agencies, such as the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and the Departments of State, Defense and Treasury have cohesive headquarters locations. DHS is on the slow road to headquarters consolidation. Congress has repeatedly slashed and deferred funds to build out the massive new headquarters complex in southeast Washington. Originally slated to open in 2015 and house more than 17,000 personnel, the full move will not occur until at least 2021, and have desk space for just 12,000 employees.

2. Stand-up the new cyber and critical infrastructure protection operational component.

DHS is the lead federal agency for securing the nation’s .com and .gov cyber networks, and for securing the nation’s critical infrastructure and key resources (CIKR). DHS is, therefore, the nation’s front line in countering gray zone/hybrid attacks against the homeland. Yet, there is no DHS operating component that has this national security priority mission as its core mission. DHS is awaiting congressional action to finalize its formal proposal to fix this yawning organizational gap. No one federal department or agency has the authorities or capabilities to defend the nation’s critical infrastructure from all physical and network threats, but the private sector (which owns and operates 90% of the nation’s infrastructure) needs a clear, well-defined primary federal point of contact. Absent a central hub, the ever-important public-private sector partnership will not have a chance at optimization.

3. Build a DHS-wide data aggregation, storage and analysis capability.

DHS seeks, but still lacks, the commercially available tools to effectively identify trends and patterns across all the information it collects in support of its homeland security missions. Closing this gap is a matter of policy and acquisition, not technology. DHS deserves credit for recognizing this to be a key element of its “Analytic Agenda,” but its inability to connect its internal component dots at the enterprise level is a dangerous gap that will not be explainable should there be another major attack in the homeland that could have been, but was not, identified beforehand by big data analytics.

Progress at DHS is real, but wholly insufficient. DHS has mission one for the United States: protecting the homeland from, and responding to, man-made and natural threats. We, the American people, need DHS to succeed. A successful DHS will deter terrorism and threats to critical infrastructure. A successful DHS will make our cyber networks more secure. A successful DHS will save lives in the aftermath of major disruptions. It will be up to the new Secretary to maximize the success of the organization and to keep the reform process moving forward.

Mr. Rosenblum previously was a Deputy Under Secretary of Intelligence at the Department of Homeland Security, an Acting Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense at the Department of Defense, and a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.