Listen to josh pan and X&G Go Deep in New OWSLA Single 'nowhere'
Listen to josh pan and X&G Go Deep in New OWSLA Single 'nowhere'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Listen to josh pan and X&G Go Deep in New OWSLA Single 'nowhere'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  josh pan dropped "nowhere" today (Jan. 27) via OWSLA and it's a beautifully atmospheric track that will take you to another dimension. The track, a collaboration with X&G, features super smooth vocals from pan, dropping lyrical lines like "Time, time, time/ I'm just trying to waste my time/ Nobody's able, able to see the rest of infinity."  These artists have constantly worked to push the boundaries of trap and future bass and "nowhere" is no exception. Beginning with subtle synths, the track builds into a melodic journey that strays from other productions like club-ready "Platinum." It's clear that Pan took his vocals and incredible songwriting to a new level on this beauty. Get lost in "nowhere" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

josh pan dropped "nowhere" today (Jan. 27) via OWSLA and it's a beautifully atmospheric track that will take you to another dimension.

The track, a collaboration with X&G, features super smooth vocals from pan, dropping lyrical lines like "Time, time, time/ I'm just trying to waste my time/ Nobody's able, able to see the rest of infinity."

These artists have constantly worked to push the boundaries of trap and future bass and "nowhere" is no exception. Beginning with subtle synths, the track builds into a melodic journey that strays from other productions like club-ready "Platinum." It's clear that Pan took his vocals and incredible songwriting to a new level on this beauty.

Get lost in "nowhere" below.