Liberal ladies: You're killing it on OKCupid
Liberal ladies: You're killing it on OKCupid
If the past few weeks have taught us anything, it's that it's more important than ever for women to stand up and speak their minds — and it turns out it could even help find lasting love. The folks at OKCupid have released some heartening new data that shows strong, liberal women have more success in landing relationships. Success, in this case, means woman who indicated they’d stopped using OKCupid because they’d met someone. The company looked at how those ladies responded to certain match questions and distilled the top answers to find some revealing commonalities. For starters, supporters of same sex marriage were 85% more likely to be successful, and it was the most commonly shared trait among the women. The second most common was answering “yes” when asked “Do you feel obligated to help your fellow human beings?” If you fall into that category (aka you are not a total monster) you’re 72% more likely to find love on OKCupid. SEE ALSO: Can we please stop branding compassion as 'liberal elitism?' Some other shared characteristics among successful women: believing "the public should have access to all literature (regardless of its content)," supporting the separation of church and state and believing that someone's education plays a part in attraction. You’re also more likely to land a long-term relationship by being open to answering questions about your sexuality. And, funnily enough, being bothered by typos ups your success rate by 36%. These are inspiring findings for progressive women looking for love, especially in an era when women are literally having to march in the streets to make their voices heard. Of course, it's worth keeping in mind that all of this only applies to users of OKCupid, who are likely to be a more open-minded bunch. So if you take your open mind and hatred of typos over to say, TrumpSingles , don't expect to see the same success. BONUS: Everything You Need to Know About Dating Apps

If the past few weeks have taught us anything, it's that it's more important than ever for women to stand up and speak their minds — and it turns out it could even help find lasting love.

The folks at OKCupid have released some heartening new data that shows strong, liberal women have more success in landing relationships. Success, in this case, means woman who indicated they’d stopped using OKCupid because they’d met someone. The company looked at how those ladies responded to certain match questions and distilled the top answers to find some revealing commonalities.

For starters, supporters of same sex marriage were 85% more likely to be successful, and it was the most commonly shared trait among the women. The second most common was answering “yes” when asked “Do you feel obligated to help your fellow human beings?” If you fall into that category (aka you are not a total monster) you’re 72% more likely to find love on OKCupid.

Some other shared characteristics among successful women: believing "the public should have access to all literature (regardless of its content)," supporting the separation of church and state and believing that someone's education plays a part in attraction.

You’re also more likely to land a long-term relationship by being open to answering questions about your sexuality. And, funnily enough, being bothered by typos ups your success rate by 36%.

These are inspiring findings for progressive women looking for love, especially in an era when women are literally having to march in the streets to make their voices heard. Of course, it's worth keeping in mind that all of this only applies to users of OKCupid, who are likely to be a more open-minded bunch.

So if you take your open mind and hatred of typos over to say, TrumpSingles, don't expect to see the same success.