Eating at Disneyland's newest restaurant costs as much as your rent
Eating at Disneyland's newest restaurant costs as much as your rent
"Gee, that was a cheap day at Disneyland," . However, things could get considerably pricier with the 'land's new 21 Royal restaurant which costs...wait for it...$1,250 per person, according to . A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on SEE ALSO: Andrew Garfield lives his best life, got high at Disneyland for his birthday To be fair, this isn't just a plate of Mickey waffles and a hug from an adult dressed in a Pluto costume. The experience, which costs $15,000 total for twelve guests (sorry, you can't just reserve it for one or two) includes: A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on park admission private escorts to the New Orleans Square location an evening in the restaurant, which was Walt and Lillian Disney's personal two-bedroom apartment Cocktail hour Seven course "epicurean theater" fine dining experience, including luxuries like caviar and champagne private balcony to enjoy park sights and potential fireworks. A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on It does sound like an incredibly cool way to blow over a thousand bucks per person. Or, you know...you could pay your rent. But rent doesn't come with the warm afterglow of eating fine dining while looking at all the peons lining up for the Pirates of the Caribbean ride. BONUS: Behold Dismaland: Inside Banksy's Disneyland-inspired theme park

"Gee, that was a cheap day at Disneyland," said nobody ever.

However, things could get considerably pricier with the 'land's new 21 Royal restaurant which costs...wait for it...$1,250 per person, according to Rob Report.

A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on Jan 25, 2017 at 7:35am PST

To be fair, this isn't just a plate of Mickey waffles and a hug from an adult dressed in a Pluto costume. The experience, which costs $15,000 total for twelve guests (sorry, you can't just reserve it for one or two) includes:

A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on Jan 26, 2017 at 1:09pm PST

park admission

private escorts to the New Orleans Square location

an evening in the restaurant, which was Walt and Lillian Disney's personal two-bedroom apartment

Cocktail hour

Seven course "epicurean theater" fine dining experience, including luxuries like caviar and champagne

private balcony to enjoy park sights and potential fireworks.

A photo posted by Bruce Wallin (@robbtravelbruce) on Jan 25, 2017 at 9:36am PST

It does sound like an incredibly cool way to blow over a thousand bucks per person.

Or, you know...you could pay your rent.

But rent doesn't come with the warm afterglow of eating fine dining while looking at all the peons lining up for the Pirates of the Caribbean ride.