A few snow chances over the next week we need to keep our eye on

The coming week is expected to be colder-than-normal, and it appears to be offering a couple of chances for snow Sunday night or Monday and then again on Wednesday and Friday. These are not significant storms — just something to keep an eye on — but any snow during a commute can cause problems in this region. A clipper will dive through the Mid-Atlantic region Sunday and Monday, but the models can’t agree on how much snow it might produce. Some give us a dusting while others keep things totally dry. The question is start time. If it begins before rush hour Monday, it could produce slick spots on roads. If it starts later on Monday, once the sun nudges temperature above freezing, we’re less likely to see road impacts. My guess is that the flurries will not cause problems, but we’ll keep watching it over the next couple of days. The majority of European ensemble members offered flurries or light snow showers with the system. In fact, the Friday morning run was a little bit snowier than previous runs, suggesting a higher chance of at least flurries or light snow at some point Saturday night or Monday morning. This morning NAM run (below) offers a few light rain and snow showers as the upper support associated with the clipper passes by. Don’t focus too much on the exact location that the model is showing snow showers. In reality, they could be almost anywhere in the area. This morning’s GFS (below) gives us a dusting across Virginia, mostly south of our area, attesting to the fact that snow flurries or showers could end up almost anywhere in the area. Today’s Canadian model offers light snow or flurries before the rush when temperatures would probably be below freezing. Another weak clipper tracks across the region Wednesday. Today’s GFS still offers the potential for very light precipitation as rain or snow, as temperatures are expected to rise above freezing Wednesday — possibly into the low 40s. A few of the models are suggesting light snow is possible by the end of next week. The GFS and the European have both hinted at this in recent runs, but it’s not clear whether the precipitation would fall as rain or snow. The system does not have a lot of support from the ensembles but has enough to suggest watching it over the next several days. All we get this year are “long shots” that usually have been turning into “no shots.”

The coming week is expected to be colder-than-normal, and it appears to be offering a couple of chances for snow Sunday night or Monday and then again on Wednesday and Friday. These are not significant storms — just something to keep an eye on — but any snow during a commute can cause problems in this region.

Sunday to Monday

A clipper will dive through the Mid-Atlantic region Sunday and Monday, but the models can’t agree on how much snow it might produce. Some give us a dusting while others keep things totally dry.

The question is start time. If it begins before rush hour Monday, it could produce slick spots on roads. If it starts later on Monday, once the sun nudges temperature above freezing, we’re less likely to see road impacts. My guess is that the flurries will not cause problems, but we’ll keep watching it over the next couple of days.

The majority of European ensemble members offered flurries or light snow showers with the system. In fact, the Friday morning run was a little bit snowier than previous runs, suggesting a higher chance of at least flurries or light snow at some point Saturday night or Monday morning.

This morning NAM run (below) offers a few light rain and snow showers as the upper support associated with the clipper passes by. Don’t focus too much on the exact location that the model is showing snow showers. In reality, they could be almost anywhere in the area.

This morning’s GFS (below) gives us a dusting across Virginia, mostly south of our area, attesting to the fact that snow flurries or showers could end up almost anywhere in the area. Today’s Canadian model offers light snow or flurries before the rush when temperatures would probably be below freezing.

Wednesday

Another weak clipper tracks across the region Wednesday. Today’s GFS still offers the potential for very light precipitation as rain or snow, as temperatures are expected to rise above freezing Wednesday — possibly into the low 40s.

Friday

A few of the models are suggesting light snow is possible by the end of next week. The GFS and the European have both hinted at this in recent runs, but it’s not clear whether the precipitation would fall as rain or snow.

The system does not have a lot of support from the ensembles but has enough to suggest watching it over the next several days. All we get this year are “long shots” that usually have been turning into “no shots.”