Another Avalanche Hits Army Post In Kupwara, 5 Soldiers Go Missing, Death Toll Crosses 20
Another Avalanche Hits Army Post In Kupwara, 5 Soldiers Go Missing, Death Toll Crosses 20
Another Avalanche Hits Army Post In Kupwara, 5 Soldiers Go Missing, Death Toll Crosses 20 Yet aother Avalanche has hit an Army post in Kupwara district on Saturday. According to an initial report, at least five army personnel have been missing in the latest fury of snow. A search operation has been launched for the missing. Several avalanches and landslides have been reported from many parts of the state including the highway at Shatani Nallah area in Banihal belt of Ramban district. A number of landslides were also triggered by heavy rains in Banihal-Ramban sector, they said adding the clearance of the snow to make the highway trafficable is being disrupted due to avalanches and landslides in Banihal-Ramban stretch. The death toll in the series of snow slides that have hit Jammu and Kashmir crossed 20 with the recovery of the bodies of four soldiers. The fresh avalanche in Banihal disrupted the work of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) that is busy clearing blockades due to snowfall in a bid to restore traffic on the highway which is closed for the third consecutive day today. In Srinagar, police officials said that bodies of four missing soldiers were recovered from avalanche-hit Gurez sector, taking the death toll in the incident to 14 "Four bodies of soldiers were recovered from the avalanche site by rescue teams in Gurez today. The death toll of army personnel has now risen to 14," a police official said. Two avalanches hit army personnel in Gurez sector on Wednesday evening trapping several soldiers under the debris. While seven personnel were rescued alive by the teams, bodies of 10 soldiers were recovered yesterday.

Yet aother Avalanche has hit an Army post in Kupwara district on Saturday. According to an initial report, at least five army personnel have been missing in the latest fury of snow. A search operation has been launched for the missing.

AFP

Several avalanches and landslides have been reported from many parts of the state including the highway at Shatani Nallah area in Banihal belt of Ramban district.

A number of landslides were also triggered by heavy rains in Banihal-Ramban sector, they said adding the clearance of the snow to make the highway trafficable is being disrupted due to avalanches and landslides in Banihal-Ramban stretch.

AFP

The death toll in the series of snow slides that have hit Jammu and Kashmir crossed 20 with the recovery of the bodies of four soldiers.

The fresh avalanche in Banihal disrupted the work of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) that is busy clearing blockades due to snowfall in a bid to restore traffic on the highway which is closed for the third consecutive day today.

In Srinagar, police officials said that bodies of four missing soldiers were recovered from avalanche-hit Gurez sector, taking the death toll in the incident to 14

"Four bodies of soldiers were recovered from the avalanche site by rescue teams in Gurez today. The death toll of army personnel has now risen to 14," a police official said.

AFP

Two avalanches hit army personnel in Gurez sector on Wednesday evening trapping several soldiers under the debris. While seven personnel were rescued alive by the teams, bodies of 10 soldiers were recovered yesterday.

More than 20 persons, including 15 army personnel, have died in avalanches since Wednesday caused by fresh snowfall across Jammu and Kashmir over the past four days.