Donald Trump Temporarily Bars Immigration From 7 Predominantly Muslim Countries
Donald Trump Temporarily Bars Immigration From 7 Predominantly Muslim Countries
During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump often proposed banning Muslims from entering the United States . On Friday, he took a big step towards that goal with a series of executive actions that took a series of steps to eliminate or severely cut down immigration from predominantly-Muslim countries. The actions, which can be read in full here , set out several major steps. Syrian refugees are indefinitely barred from entering the U.S. Immigrants from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen are barred for 90 days. Christians and members of other minority religions from majority-Muslim nations will be given priority over Muslims. The amount of refugees allowed in the U.S. this fiscal year is cut from over 100,000 to 50,000. No refugees at all will be allowed into the U.S. for 120 days. During the signing ceremony, Trump said , " Almost immediately, criticism came in from politicians, human rights groups, and more. Refugee: An Iraqi man I met today. Wounded, family members murdered. He performed our national anthem in tears today. #patriot  # President Richard Cohen: President Trump's executive orders are assaults on Muslims, immigrants and refugees https://t.co/  pic.twitter.com/ I generally keep my political commentary to a minimum. But Trump's refugee ban is Un-American. . @POTUS your latest Executive Order is an affront to our values and we will fight you in every way from Courts to Congress to Streets! This was my team. We fought together in Iraq. Guess the two most critical members. Now guess which two are no longer welcome in the U.S. pic.twitter.com/ attackers—Saudi Trump order begins by invoking 9/11 three times  9/11 hijackers were from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, & Lebanon  None of those countries banned A possibly related fact? Trump has business interests in some of those countries, including Saudi Arabia, home to 15 of the 19 9/11 hijackers. You're from Turkey, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Egypt and you're....able to enter. Because....Trump does business in your countries?

During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump often proposed banning Muslims from entering the United States. On Friday, he took a big step towards that goal with a series of executive actions that took a series of steps to eliminate or severely cut down immigration from predominantly-Muslim countries.

The actions, which can be read in full here, set out several major steps.

Syrian refugees are indefinitely barred from entering the U.S.

Immigrants from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen are barred for 90 days.

Christians and members of other minority religions from majority-Muslim nations will be given priority over Muslims.

The amount of refugees allowed in the U.S. this fiscal year is cut from over 100,000 to 50,000.

No refugees at all will be allowed into the U.S. for 120 days.

During the signing ceremony, Trump said, "I'm establishing new vetting measures to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America. We only want to admit those into our country who will support our country and love deeply our people."

Almost immediately, criticism came in from politicians, human rights groups, and more.

Refugee: An Iraqi man I met today. Wounded, family members murdered. He performed our national anthem in tears today. #patriot #MuslimBan — Rep. Joe Kennedy III ( @RepJoeKennedy ) January 28, 2017

SPLC President Richard Cohen: President Trump's executive orders are assaults on Muslims, immigrants and refugees https://t.co/qpRZ64kulU pic.twitter.com/gJrCA6hYE3 — SPLC ( @splcenter ) January 28, 2017

I generally keep my political commentary to a minimum. But Trump's refugee ban is Un-American. — Jake Wood ( @JakeWoodTR ) January 28, 2017

.@POTUS your latest Executive Order is an affront to our values and we will fight you in every way from Courts to Congress to Streets! — Rep. Nydia Velazquez ( @NydiaVelazquez ) January 28, 2017

This was my team. We fought together in Iraq. Guess the two most critical members. Now guess which two are no longer welcome in the U.S. pic.twitter.com/VD5Hy8arvA — Brandon Friedman ( @BFriedmanDC ) January 28, 2017

Many people noted that despite the president's frequent invocation of the 9/11 attacks, the countries that actually produced the attackers—Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, and Lebanon—did not appear on Trump's list of banned nations.

Trump order begins by invoking 9/11 three times



9/11 hijackers were from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, UAE & Lebanon



None of those countries banned — August West ( @AugustWest666 ) January 28, 2017

A possibly related fact? Trump has business interests in some of those countries, including Saudi Arabia, home to 15 of the 19 9/11 hijackers.