UN agencies urge Donald Trump to allow refugees entry in vital resettlement program



UN agencies urge Donald Trump to allow refugees entry in vital resettlement program

Updated

The United Nations refugee agency and International Organisation for Migration (IOM) have called on the Trump administration to continue offering asylum to people fleeing war and persecution, saying its resettlement program was vital.

Key points: Critics slam Trump's choice to sign the order on Holocaust Remembrance Day

Germany, France say taking in refugees is a duty and the decision is worrying

More than 30 countries take part in the program, which stats with vetting by the UN

US President Donald Trump on Friday put a four-month hold on allowing refugees into the United States and temporarily barred travellers from Syria and six other Muslim-majority countries, saying the moves would help protect Americans from terrorist attacks.

"The needs of refugees and migrants worldwide have never been greater and the US resettlement program is one of the most important in the world," the two Geneva-based agencies said in a joint statement.

Mr Trump stopped the entry of travellers from Syria and the six other nations — Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen — for at least 90 days, saying his administration needed time to develop more stringent screening processes for refugees, immigrants and visitors.

IOM and UNHCR said that they remained committed to working with the US administration towards a shared goal of ensuring "safe and secure resettlement and immigration programs".

"We strongly believe that refugees should receive equal treatment for protection and assistance, and opportunities for resettlement, regardless of their religion, nationality or race," they said.

Resettlement places provided by every country for vulnerable refugees, some of whom require special medical treatment not available in their first country of asylum, are vital, the agencies said.

More than 30 countries take part in the program, which starts with vetting by the UNHCR.

The agencies hoped "that the US will continue its strong leadership role and long tradition of protecting those who are fleeing conflict and persecution".

Critics slam Trump's signing on Holocaust Remembrance Day

Some 25,000 refugees were resettled in the United States between October and year-end under UNHCR's program for the most vulnerable, the agency said on Friday.

A host of US federal government agencies are involved and extensive background checks are carried out, UNHCR spokeswoman Vannina Maestracci told a briefing.

"I think it's fair to say that refugees coming into the United States to be resettled are some of the most vetted individuals entering the United States," she said.

Meanwhile, critics have taken to social media to slam what they see as Mr Trump's insensitively timed decision to sign the executive order against Muslim refugees on International Holocaust Remembrance Day.

"Apparently Trump observed Holocaust Remembrance Day by signing an executive order to suspend the acceptance of refugees. No words," astrophysicist Katie Mack wrote on Twitter.

A statement released by the Trump administration to mark the day was also criticised for failing to mention religion or refugees.

"It is with a heavy heart and sombre mind that we remember and honour the victims, survivors, heroes of the Holocaust," the statement said.

"Together, we will make love and tolerance prevalent throughout the world."

France's Foreign Minister Jean-March Ayrault later told a joint press conference with German counterpart Sigmar Gabriel that Mr Trump's decision was worrying.

"This can only worry us ... welcoming refugees who flee war and oppression is part of our duty."

Reuters/ABC

Topics: world-politics, refugees, defence-forces, united-states

First posted