Cancer patients lose out with drug price hikes of more than 1,000 %
Cancer patients lose out with drug price hikes of more than 1,000 % 

ancer sufferers in Britain are losing out on access to drugs, amid price hikes of more than 1,000 per cent for life-saving medication, scientists have warned. New research shows watchdogs in France and Germany are far more likely than those in the UK to approve new treatments, with soaring drug prices in Britain putting health budgets under mounting strain. A study led by the University of Liverpool examined the prices charged by drugs companies for some of the most common cancer treatments. Twenty were found to have risen by more than 100 per cent in the last five years, with rises of more than 1,000 per cent for some of the most crucial treatments. n many cases, drugs which cost pounds in Britain were available for just pennies in India, where many of them were made, the study found. Tamoxifen - one of the most common treatments for breast cancer - saw its price rise from 10 pence per tablet to £1.21 - a rise of 1,100 per cent. The drug costs just 2 pence per pill in India. usulfan, used to treat leukaemia, rose from 21 pence per pill to £2.61 - a 1,142 per cent rise. In India, it sells for 3 pence. Researchers, presenting the findings to the European Cancer Congress in Amsterdam said the findings were “worrying,” putting extra strain on NHS budgets which could cost lives. Lead author Dr Andrew Hill, Senior Research Fellow in the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Liverpool, said “We were surprised to find several companies consistently raising the prices of cancer treatment.  “Twenty treatments have shown rises of over 100 per cent in the last five years, and in two – busulfan (used to treat leukaemia) and tamoxifen (breast cancer) – prices have increased by over 1000 per cent.” The researcher said the hikes were particularly concerning, because they involved generic drugs which should be being sold at close to cost price, with costs of research and development already recouped. “The budgets are struggling, the NHS is not recommending some treatments just because the price is too big,” he told the conference. “We are wasting so much money.” “We have found that some companies take over the supply of some generic cancer medicines and then raise the price progressively,” the researcher added. “At a time when cancer patients are living longer and better lives due to effective treatments, this situation is particularly worrying.” A second study examined approval processes for 48 new cancer drugs that were evaluated between 2011 and 2015 for use in European Union countries. Researchers found that while France and Germany turned down around 20 per cent of new drugs, around 33 per cent of treatments were rejected by the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice). The treatments all showed clinical benefit, extending life for cancer sufferers by an average of three months, the German study found. Researchers said access to drugs in England and Wales also fared worse because the evaluation processes were far slower than those in countries such as France and Germany. Professor Paul Workman, chief executive of The Institute of Cancer Research said: “Nice has to make difficult decisions on what the NHS can pay for but exciting new cancer drugs are taking too long to reach the people who urgently need them. “It’s concerning that we’re seeing such sharp rises in the price of cancer drugs. We need large-scale changes to the whole ecosystem of drug discovery and development to ensure new medicines are created more cheaply and priced more fairly.” Mia Rosenblatt, from charity Breast Cancer Now, said: “If we want to close the gap on the rest of Europe in cancer outcomes, we urgently need to find ways to make effective new treatments available to NHS patients.” Sir Andrew Dillon, chief executive of Nice said: “The NHS has a tight budget, so pharmaceutical companies need to show us they have priced their drugs in a way that accurately reflects their value to patients. We are reviewing new cancer drugs faster than any other country in Europe; if they’re fairly priced, we can get them to patients quickly.” The Department of Health is introducing new legislation in an attempt to clamp down on spiralling prices. Companies found to be raising prices with no clear justification will be referred to the Competition and Markets Authority, and could face fines. Warwick Smith, director general of the British Generic Manufacturers Association (BGMA), said: “Generic competition in the oncology market has produced very significant savings for the NHS and generated access for patients to medicines such as Tamoxifen which can be used to reduce the risk of breast cancer and not just to treat it.  In the case of generic medicines used in hospitals, it is important to distinguish between the actual price paid by Trusts and the much higher list prices often quoted.”

Busulfan, used to treat leukaemia, rose from 21 pence per pill to £2.61 - a 1,142 per cent rise.

In India, it sells for 3 pence.

Researchers, presenting the findings to the European Cancer Congress in Amsterdam said the findings were “worrying,” putting extra strain on NHS budgets which could cost lives.

Lead author Dr Andrew Hill, Senior Research Fellow in the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Liverpool, said “We were surprised to find several companies consistently raising the prices of cancer treatment.

“Twenty treatments have shown rises of over 100 per cent in the last five years, and in two – busulfan (used to treat leukaemia) and tamoxifen (breast cancer) – prices have increased by over 1000 per cent.”

The researcher said the hikes were particularly concerning, because they involved generic drugs which should be being sold at close to cost price, with costs of research and development already recouped.

“The budgets are struggling, the NHS is not recommending some treatments just because the price is too big,” he told the conference. “We are wasting so much money.”

“We have found that some companies take over the supply of some generic cancer medicines and then raise the price progressively,” the researcher added.

“At a time when cancer patients are living longer and better lives due to effective treatments, this situation is particularly worrying.”

A second study examined approval processes for 48 new cancer drugs that were evaluated between 2011 and 2015 for use in European Union countries.

Researchers found that while France and Germany turned down around 20 per cent of new drugs, around 33 per cent of treatments were rejected by the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (Nice).

The treatments all showed clinical benefit, extending life for cancer sufferers by an average of three months, the German study found.

Researchers said access to drugs in England and Wales also fared worse because the evaluation processes were far slower than those in countries such as France and Germany.

Professor Paul Workman, chief executive of The Institute of Cancer Research said: “Nice has to make difficult decisions on what the NHS can pay for but exciting new cancer drugs are taking too long to reach the people who urgently need them.

“It’s concerning that we’re seeing such sharp rises in the price of cancer drugs. We need large-scale changes to the whole ecosystem of drug discovery and development to ensure new medicines are created more cheaply and priced more fairly.”

Mia Rosenblatt, from charity Breast Cancer Now, said: “If we want to close the gap on the rest of Europe in cancer outcomes, we urgently need to find ways to make effective new treatments available to NHS patients.”

Sir Andrew Dillon, chief executive of Nice said: “The NHS has a tight budget, so pharmaceutical companies need to show us they have priced their drugs in a way that accurately reflects their value to patients. We are reviewing new cancer drugs faster than any other country in Europe; if they’re fairly priced, we can get them to patients quickly.”

The Department of Health is introducing new legislation in an attempt to clamp down on spiralling prices. Companies found to be raising prices with no clear justification will be referred to the Competition and Markets Authority, and could face fines.

Warwick Smith, director general of the British Generic Manufacturers Association (BGMA), said: “Generic competition in the oncology market has produced very significant savings for the NHS and generated access for patients to medicines such as Tamoxifen which can be used to reduce the risk of breast cancer and not just to treat it. In the case of generic medicines used in hospitals, it is important to distinguish between the actual price paid by Trusts and the much higher list prices often quoted.”