North Koreans shovel snow off road leading to ski resort
Thousands of North Koreans shovel snow off road leading to ski resort


Rare images from North Korea show thousands of workers, some of whom appear to be children, shoveling snow from a road leading to the hermit country's Masikryong ski resort.

Scores of civilians were captured along the winding stretch during blizzard conditions hacking at the frozen ground with makeshift wooden shovels as opposed to using snow trucks, used in other parts of the world, to clear snow covered roads.

Footage captured men, women and children as young as 11-years-of-age wrapped up in winter clothing moving the snow to allow the country's elite and tourists to get to the plush resort on the outskirts of Wonsan.

Graft: Civilians hacked at the frozen ground with makeshift wooden shovels to clear the road to the ski resort

Privilege: North Korean leader Kim Jong Un guides the winter river-crossing attack tactical drill of the reinforced tank in Pyongyang on January 28

Small groups of uniformed soldiers were also seen joining in the work but the effort was largely a civilian effort, according to NBC, who captured the footage.

The workers also scattered earth and stones on the icy road to stop vehicles that passed from skidding over the edge.

Despite the labour intensive work few cars passed the route onto North Korea's only ski resort which caters for the country's elite, who are nearly all high-ranking officials in the Worker's Party, and a smattering of tourists.

Struggle: Men, women and children as young as 11 -years-of-age were spotted along the long road to the resort

The bone chilling exercise was made all the more futile as only four of the resort's 10 slopes were open the day NBC visited.

It is unclear how the workers got to the mountain and whether they live close by. There didn't appear to be a person overseeing the grueling job for the miles of road they were working on.

The Masikryong ski resort is three hour drive from showcase capital Pyongyang and is said to rival top ski destinations across the world.

The summit is over 4,000ft and the ten slopes, when open, cater for all levels of skiers, from beginners to the slalom experts who swoon their way down the wide pistes.

Fun for some: North Korea's elite hit the slopes of the country's only ski resort

Skiers can rent out equipment at a shop and a large hotel at the bottom of the piste offers first, second or third-class rooms.

Footage shows party official children swooping down the slopes dressed in new boots and skis which would take the average North Korean worker months to be able to afford, just to rent for a day in Masikryong.

Kim Jong-un inspecting his 'pet project', near Wonsan in North Korea with top officials

A ski-less Kim Jong-Un surveys the snowy surroundings during his visit at the end of 2012

Despite the relative luxury a giant screen towards the bottom of a slope blares out propaganda, like on collective farm radios across the country, and shows images of saluting generals and officials at a Communist Party conference.

And the hotel lobby has copies of Pyongyang newspapers from the day after Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un visited the resort.

During his visit Kim watched people ski, praised the country's sportsmen and watched some nearby artillery firing.

Authoritarian North Korea relies on the 'revolutionary' work done every day by the millions of peasants and factory workers, organised by the ruling Worker's Party, to maintain and create 'a socialist fairyland.'