ISIS leader is wounded in Philipines military airstrikes
IS leader is wounded in Philipines military airstrikes


Isnilon Hapilon has a $5-million bounty on his head from the US government for his involvement in the 2001 kidnapping of three Americans in the Philippines

A top leader of an ISIS-affiliated Islamic militant group who is on the United States' list of 'Most Wanted Terrorists' has been wounded in military airstrikes.

Isnilon Hapilon has a $5-million bounty on his head from the US government for his involvement in the 2001 kidnapping of three Americans in the Philippines.

Hapilon has been recognised by IS as its leader in Southeast Asia and belongs to Abu Sayyaf, a kidnap-for-ransom gang based in the southern Philippines.

Philipine Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said Hapilon was 'seriously wounded' in air strikes on Wednesday in the town of Butig, 500 miles south of Manila.

He said: 'As of [Friday, Hapilon] is still being carried by four men in a makeshift stretcher moving northeast of Butig.

'Troops are in hot pursuit supported by ground artillery and air support.'

Lorenzana added the military offensive killed four of Hapilon's companions including an Indonesian he identified as having the alias Mohisen.

The Abu Sayyaf, a loose network of militants formed in the 1990s with money from Al-Qaeda, preys on vessels between Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.

It has earned millions of dollars from kidnappings-for-ransom.

Hapilon was involved in the kidnapping of three Americans from a resort in the western Philippine island of Palawan in 2001, according to the US.

The militants later beheaded one captive in their stronghold in Basilan island in the strife-torn south.

Hapilon (bottom right) has been recognised by IS as its leader in Southeast Asia. Pictured: A wanted poster from 2006

Another hostage died in the crossfire with soldiers during a rescue operation in 2002. The third American was freed.

Hapilon has pledged allegiance to IS, which endorsed him as 'amir for Southeast Asia,' according to a report by think-tank Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict.

'Southeast Asians in Syria have pledged their loyalty to him,' the report said.

Hapilon was based in Basilan but he had moved to Lanao del Sur province, 180 miles east, in a bid to establish an IS presence there.

Lorenzana added Hapilon was 'trying to rally' into cooperation the Maute group, another gang which had pledged allegiance to IS.