Emmanuelle Riva, the Oscar-nominated French actress, dies aged 89
Emmanuelle Riva, the Oscar-nominated French actress, dies aged 89 
mmanuelle Riva, who has died aged 89, was most famous for two films, both of which had Amour in the title. One was her very first, the other very nearly her last. “One is about impossible love,” she said, comparing the two in an interview. “The other is about a love that is more than possible, because the husband finally fulfils [his wife’s] wish through the ultimate act of love.” Riva’s stunning beauty at the age of 30 cast an instant spell in Alain Resnais’s Hiroshima mon amour (1959). After realising from the age of six that she wanted to act, she had briefly trained as a seamstress, then learned her craft on the Paris stage. And then Resnais cast her, as a young French actress reminiscing to her Japanese lover about the ashen aftermath of the atomic bomb blasts, while they prepare to separate. he film was formally radical and very influential, helping spearhead the innovations of the French New Wave, with its slippery, non-linear patterning and reliance on hypnotic voiceover – much of it coming from Riva’s own lips, repeating the poetry of Marguerite Duras’s lines over and over. Her grave, sad countenance was a canvas for everything that haunts the film, its thesis about memory and loss. n the decade or two that followed, Riva never quite turned into a New Wave icon on a par with, say, her contemporary Jeanne Moreau. Her film credits were too selective, maybe. Theatre remained important. She did play a key role for Jean-Pierre Melville, as the lonely widow seeking advice from Jean-Paul Belmondo in Léon Morin, Priest (1961), and she won Best Actress in Venice for playing the provincial murderess in Georges Franju’s Thérèse Desqueyroux (1962), one of her own favourite parts. She worked steadily into the Seventies and Eighties, but in generally obscure, mostly forgotten films. iva never married or had children, and lived for 54 years up the same 4th-floor, walk-up flat on a bustling street in Paris’s Latin Quarter. The Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski used her as Juliette Binoche’s mother in his Three Colours: Blue (1993). This could have been her last role of major note, if it weren’t for Amour (2012), Michael Haneke’s Palme d’Or winning, Best Picture-nominated succès d’estime, a remarkable comeback story which thrust Riva right back into the limelight. At 85, she became the oldest ever Best Actress Oscar nominee, in the same year as the youngest, Quvenzhané Wallis in Beasts of the Southern Wild. Her devastatingly persuasive performance as an octogenarian stroke victim was the acting achievement of the year, bar none: hot-to-trot Jennifer Lawrence was lucky to beat her for Silver Linings Playbook. Riva did, however, win a Bafta for the role. Later, she described Amour as a gift, and couldn’t quite believe she’d been given it. But we got to share in it, by appreciating her work in this profound masterpiece as one of the career-capping performances of all time.

Emmanuelle Riva, who has died aged 89, was most famous for two films, both of which had Amour in the title. One was her very first, the other very nearly her last.

“One is about impossible love,” she said, comparing the two in an interview. “The other is about a love that is more than possible, because the husband finally fulfils [his wife’s] wish through the ultimate act of love.”

Riva’s stunning beauty at the age of 30 cast an instant spell in Alain Resnais’s Hiroshima mon amour (1959). After realising from the age of six that she wanted to act, she had briefly trained as a seamstress, then learned her craft on the Paris stage. And then Resnais cast her, as a young French actress reminiscing to her Japanese lover about the ashen aftermath of the atomic bomb blasts, while they prepare to separate.