Cannibal hamsters forced to eat their own babies due to 'collapsing' habitat, study finds
Cannibal hamsters forced to eat their own babies due to 'collapsing' habitat, study finds
Wild hamsters in France are eating their own babies alive because the new farming methods are causing their habitats to "collapse", researchers have found. Scientists say farmland European hamsters, which are on the verge of extinction in Western Europe, are suffering from the rapid spread of intensive corn monocultures. Previously, the rodents fed on a variety of grains, roots and insects but changes in agricultural techniques have transformed their habitats and made them feed nearly exclusively on corn. Some of them have been found to go hungry. Read more Mushroom coffee is being hailed as the next superfood UN halves food rations to 1.4 million refugees as states delay funds Iran's Oscar-nominated director barred from awards due to Trump's ban Mexicans target Starbucks in boycott of US firms over Trump policies The results of the study by French researchers at the University of Strasbourg published in the British Royal Society journal Proceedings B , aimed to show how nutritional deficiencies caused by monocultures could affect their reproductive capacities in the wild. The change in their habitats has left the hamsters lacking vitamins and particularly vitamin B3 - also known as niacin. Researchers carried out lab experiments by comparing the behaviours of female hamsters, which were fed on wheat and corn-based diets with clover or worms and those which only had corn. Four fifth of pups born of mothers eating a varied diet weaned compared with only five per cent of those, whose mothers were eating only corn - and the rest of them were eaten. Researchers noted: “Females stored their pups with their hoards of maize before eating them. Pups were still alive at that time.” The females, who fed only on corn, were also “running in circle in the cage, climbing and pounding their feeders when we entered in the room”. They were described as having swollen and dark tongue, thick blood, hair deficiency and rash problems. Snake charmers of Uttar Pradesh               Snake charmers of Uttar Pradesh       A snake charmer holds a cobra, which was caught in a house in a near-by village, in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A daughter of a snake charmer holds snakes as she eats her breakfast in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A snake charmer plays a gourd flute in front of cobras after the morning prayer at a temple in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        Children of a snake charmer prepare dinner outside their home in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A boy holds a snake as he poses for a photograph in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A cobra is seen in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A snake charmer sits on a road with his belongings after returning home from a month-long trip in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        Snakes are seen inside a pot in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        Children of snake charmers sit next to a fire on a cold winter evening in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        Binu Nath poses for a photograph with a snake in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters        A wife of a snake charmer stands outside her house in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India   Reuters  But when given vitamin B3, the hamsters, which had been previously fed only on corn, stopped eating their pups and regained a normal appearance. “There’s clearly an imbalance,” said Gerard Baumgart, President of the Research Centre for Environmental Protection in Alsace, and an expert on the European hamster. “Our hamster habitat is collapsing. Monoculture in agriculture is really bad for biodiversity. Now we need to take concrete action," he added. The study also notes that in the the 18th and 19th centuries, corn-based diets led to the death of hundreds of thousands of people from pellagra, a complex disease partly caused by deficiencies in vitamin B3. More about: hamsters rodent France cannibalism Comments

Wild hamsters in France are eating their own babies alive because the new farming methods are causing their habitats to "collapse", researchers have found.

Scientists say farmland European hamsters, which are on the verge of extinction in Western Europe, are suffering from the rapid spread of intensive corn monocultures.

Previously, the rodents fed on a variety of grains, roots and insects but changes in agricultural techniques have transformed their habitats and made them feed nearly exclusively on corn. Some of them have been found to go hungry.

The results of the study by French researchers at the University of Strasbourg published in the British Royal Society journal Proceedings B, aimed to show how nutritional deficiencies caused by monocultures could affect their reproductive capacities in the wild.

The change in their habitats has left the hamsters lacking vitamins and particularly vitamin B3 - also known as niacin.

Researchers carried out lab experiments by comparing the behaviours of female hamsters, which were fed on wheat and corn-based diets with clover or worms and those which only had corn.

Four fifth of pups born of mothers eating a varied diet weaned compared with only five per cent of those, whose mothers were eating only corn - and the rest of them were eaten.

Researchers noted: “Females stored their pups with their hoards of maize before eating them. Pups were still alive at that time.”

The females, who fed only on corn, were also “running in circle in the cage, climbing and pounding their feeders when we entered in the room”.

They were described as having swollen and dark tongue, thick blood, hair deficiency and rash problems.

Snake charmers of Uttar Pradesh







11 show all Snake charmers of Uttar Pradesh



















1/11 A snake charmer holds a cobra, which was caught in a house in a near-by village, in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

2/11 A daughter of a snake charmer holds snakes as she eats her breakfast in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

3/11 A snake charmer plays a gourd flute in front of cobras after the morning prayer at a temple in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

4/11 Children of a snake charmer prepare dinner outside their home in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

5/11 A boy holds a snake as he poses for a photograph in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

6/11 A cobra is seen in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

7/11 A snake charmer sits on a road with his belongings after returning home from a month-long trip in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

8/11 Snakes are seen inside a pot in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

9/11 Children of snake charmers sit next to a fire on a cold winter evening in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

10/11 Binu Nath poses for a photograph with a snake in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

11/11 A wife of a snake charmer stands outside her house in Jogi Dera (snake charmers settlement), in the village of Baghpur, in the central state of Uttar Pradesh, India Reuters

But when given vitamin B3, the hamsters, which had been previously fed only on corn, stopped eating their pups and regained a normal appearance.

“There’s clearly an imbalance,” said Gerard Baumgart, President of the Research Centre for Environmental Protection in Alsace, and an expert on the European hamster.

“Our hamster habitat is collapsing. Monoculture in agriculture is really bad for biodiversity. Now we need to take concrete action," he added.

The study also notes that in the the 18th and 19th centuries, corn-based diets led to the death of hundreds of thousands of people from pellagra, a complex disease partly caused by deficiencies in vitamin B3.