Trump Signs Executive Actions on Lobbying Ban, Plans for ISIS
Trump Signs Executive Actions on Lobbying Ban, Plans for ISIS
Shares               President Donald Trump has signed executive actions directed at banning former administration officials from lobbying and directing his top military advisers to draw up plans to defeat ISIS. One of the actions, according to a senior administration official, gives the Joint Chiefs of Staff 30 days to present Trump with plans to "accomplish the defeat of ISIS," the official said. Another orders a restructuring of the White House National Security Council , which advises the president on foreign policy and security matters, reorganizing the office and put new procedures in place. Following up on his campaign pledge to "drain the swamp" in Washington, Trump also signed an action to institute a five-year lobbying ban for administration officials once they leave government, and put in place a lifetime ban on lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. "This was something, the five year ban, that I have been taking a lot about on the campaign trail," Trump said to reporters gathered in the Oval Office Saturday. Trump signed a flurry of executive actions into effect in his first full week in office. Some, such as actions directing agencies to begin dismantling Obamacare , struck at President Obama's legacy. Trump delivered on campaign promises with actions directing the construction of a border wall on the U.S.-Mexico border and limiting immigration into the United State from several countries. In several cases, the blitz of activity caught some in Washington by surprise. Congressional leaders and officials with the agencies of jurisdiction received little to no warning on some of the actions from the White House, according to sources. Shares                  Trump Signs Executive Actions on Lobbying Ban, Plans for ISIS   Trump: 'Dishonest Press Does Not Want to Report' on Terror   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   The Note: The Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Trump's Comparing US to Putin's Russia Draws Bipartisan Backlash   Democrat: 'Everything Depends' on Gorsuch's Answers   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court

President Donald Trump has signed executive actions directed at banning former administration officials from lobbying and directing his top military advisers to draw up plans to defeat ISIS.

One of the actions, according to a senior administration official, gives the Joint Chiefs of Staff 30 days to present Trump with plans to "accomplish the defeat of ISIS," the official said.

Another orders a restructuring of the White House National Security Council, which advises the president on foreign policy and security matters, reorganizing the office and put new procedures in place.

Following up on his campaign pledge to "drain the swamp" in Washington, Trump also signed an action to institute a five-year lobbying ban for administration officials once they leave government, and put in place a lifetime ban on lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.

"This was something, the five year ban, that I have been taking a lot about on the campaign trail," Trump said to reporters gathered in the Oval Office Saturday.

Trump signed a flurry of executive actions into effect in his first full week in office. Some, such as actions directing agencies to begin dismantling Obamacare, struck at President Obama's legacy.

Trump delivered on campaign promises with actions directing the construction of a border wall on the U.S.-Mexico border and limiting immigration into the United State from several countries.

In several cases, the blitz of activity caught some in Washington by surprise. Congressional leaders and officials with the agencies of jurisdiction received little to no warning on some of the actions from the White House, according to sources.