The Human Snake: Girl, 16, sheds her skin every six weeks
The Human Snake: Girl, 16, sheds her skin every six weeks


A teenager who sheds her skin every six weeks due to a rare condition that dries it out has been thrown out of school because classmates are scared of her.

Shalini Yadav, 16, suffers from Erythroderma, an inflammatory skin disease also known as 'red man syndrome', which doctors are unable to treat.

She needs to soak her body in water every hour and smear it in moisturiser every three hours to prevent it from seizing up and flaking off.

Shalini Yadav (pictured), 16, suffers from Erythroderma, an inflammatory skin disease also known as 'red man syndrome', which doctors are unable to treat

She needs to soak her body in water every hour and smear it in moisturiser every three hours to prevent it from seizing up and flaking off

But her family of eight cannot afford the cream and Shalini (pictured) has shed her skin every 45 days since she was born

Shalini (pictured) has now been thrown out of school because the other children are scared of her because of her snake-like appearance

But her family of eight cannot afford the cream and she has shed her skin every 45 days since she was born.

And she has now been thrown out of school because the other children are scared of her because of her snake-like appearance.

Her desperate mother Devkunwar said: 'Shalini is suffering from the disease since childhood.

'We saw several doctors but none of them could cure her and her condition has continued to get worse.

'I feel so helpless when I see her skin coming off, causing excruciating pain to my child.

'This disease is not killing her but taking her life bit by bit. We have no idea where to go to and who to consult.'

Devkunwar, a care-giver in a state-funded community centre, is so heart-broken she says death would be kinder to her daughter.

Her desperate mother Devkunwar explained how Shalini has suffered from the disease since childhood but doctors have been unable to treat it

Her family explained how her skin coming off causes her 'excruciating pain' and is 'taking her life bit by bit'

Her skin becomes so hard that it affects her mobility making it difficult for the teenager to walk

The hard skin o n her face gives her a very strange appearance that scares other children

She added: 'It is better to die than living a life of misery.'

Shalini's two siblings Sejal, 15, and Price, eight, are normal with no such complication.

Her father Rajbahadur, a daily wage worker, said: 'It's really sad because she was not born normally and has scaly skin all over her body.

'It is similar to being severely burnt, from the sole of her feet to her head.'

Shalini said: 'I wanted to study but they threw me out of school as the children would get scared by seeing my face.

'Everybody in the family is suffering because of my medical condition.

'But what is my fault? What sin did I commit to be cursed with such a disease. I want to live.

'Please help me, if you can.'