John Hurt dead: 143 roles compressed into four minutes from The Elephant Man and Alien to Harry Potter
John Hurt dead: 143 roles compressed into four minutes from The Elephant Man and Alien to Harry Potter
Popular videos    Could A Cure for Wellness be the first great horror film of 2017?      Ghost in the Shell spot gets inside Scarlett Johansson's The Major      Donald Trump spent a National Prayer meeting plugging The Apprentice      Trump vows to 'totally destroy' US rules on religion in politics   Sir John Hurt has passed away at the age of 77, leaving behind an insurmountable body of work spanning six decades. In many ways, Hurt could be deemed the ultimate character actor - a versatile performer who possessed the ability to transform every project he found himself associated with be it on stage, television or film. The actor - who was knighted in 2015 - racked up well over 140 performances, all of which you can see in the above clip from the actor's archives . Featured are films , , , - in which he played wandmaker Ollivander - and the iconic ' chestburster ' scene from Ridley Scott's 1979 classic . Hurt's film debut came in 1962 romantic drama . At the time of his death, Hurt was completing work on Winston Churchill biopic in which he plays former Prime Minister Neville Chamberlin. Actors you think have won Oscars but haven't               Actors you think have won Oscars but haven't    Joaquin Phoenix   With three previous nominations under his belt - for films including and - it was his performance as Johnny Cash in 2005 biopic that was expected to see him win an Oscar (he lost to the late Philip Seymour Hoffman's for ).   2015 Getty Images     Bill Murray   With only one Oscar nomination to his name (2003's ), Bill Murray is one oversight that - in many people's eyes - could easily throw the Academy Awards into disrepute.      Brad Pitt   The ever-present fixture he remains in Hollywood today, you'd think Brad Pitt would have won an Oscar by now; while serving as producer of 2014 Best Picture winner , he currently has zero acting wins to his name despite three nominations ( , and ).   2015 Getty Images     Samuel L. Jackson   Considering he's one of the most bankable film stars in the world, it's a surprise that - with over 160 credits to his name - Samuel L. Jackson has only received a mere one nomination ( in 1994).   2016 Getty Images     Tom Cruise   Still one of the biggest movie stars on the planet, Tom Cruise seemed like a sure awards bet back in the Nineties with films , and all earning him nominations - and yet, he never once emerged victorious.   2015 Getty Images     Richard Gere   Would you believe us if we told you Richard Gere has never even been nominated? Well, it's true - and, quite honestly, shocks us quite a bit. Poor guy.   Juan Naharro Gimenez     Gary Oldman   One of the film industry's finest character actors, Gary Oldman has been nominated just the once for playing George Smiley in .   2014 Getty Images     Johnny Depp   Despite his recent dip in quality, Johnny Depp has delivered several Oscar-worthy performances in the past. With a total of three nominations to his name - all for post-2000 releases including and - it's more a wonder he didn't receive more recognition for standout films such as and in the Nineties.   2015 Getty Images     Harrison Ford   Harrison Ford may now be the world's highest-grossing actor (sorry, Samuel) but still doesn't have the Academy Award to back up such a feat. In fact, he's now into his third decade of not receiving recognition from the Academy with his sole nomination arriving back in 1985 for .      Edward Norton   Edward Norton is just the kind of actor you'd assume would've scooped a statuette at some stage or another, but no - Norton just has three nominations to speak of; his first in 1996 ( ), his second in 1999 ( ) and his third just last year (Best Picture winner, ).      John Malkovich   American actor John Malkovich was nominated once in 1984 ( ) and again in 1993 ( ) but hasn't posed much of a threat since.   2013 Getty Images     Annette Bening   Poor Annette Bening, who has come close to victory four times ( , , and ) but is yet to clinch one.   2015 Getty Images     Glenn Close   ...well, it could be worse; she could be Glenn Close who has been on the shortlist times for films including , and, most recently, .      Helena Bonham Carter   Helena Bonham Carter may have received a Best Actress nomination for (1997), but it was her Best Supporting Actress nomination for 2012's Best Picture winner that seemed a sure bet; Melissa Leo's role in won that round.   2015 Getty Images  The BAFTA-winning actor can currently be seen in which earned Natalie Portman a Best Actress Oscar nomination earlier this week. More about: John Hurt Comments

Sir John Hurt has passed away at the age of 77, leaving behind an insurmountable body of work spanning six decades.

In many ways, Hurt could be deemed the ultimate character actor - a versatile performer who possessed the ability to transform every project he found himself associated with be it on stage, television or film.

The actor - who was knighted in 2015 - racked up well over 140 performances, all of which you can see in the above clip from the actor's archives.

Featured are films The Elephant Man, 1984, Scandal, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone - in which he played wandmaker Ollivander - and the iconic 'chestburster' scene from Ridley Scott's 1979 classic Alien.

Sir John Hurt: Stars pay tribute to "extraordinary talent"

Hurt's film debut came in 1962 romantic drama The Wild and the Willing.

At the time of his death, Hurt was completing work on Winston Churchill biopic Darkest Hour in which he plays former Prime Minister Neville Chamberlin.

Actors you think have won Oscars but haven't







14 show all Actors you think have won Oscars but haven't

























1/14 Joaquin Phoenix With three previous nominations under his belt - for films including Gladiator and The Master - it was his performance as Johnny Cash in 2005 biopic Walk the Line that was expected to see him win an Oscar (he lost to the late Philip Seymour Hoffman's for Capote ). 2015 Getty Images

2/14 Bill Murray With only one Oscar nomination to his name (2003's Lost in Translation ), Bill Murray is one oversight that - in many people's eyes - could easily throw the Academy Awards into disrepute.

3/14 Brad Pitt The ever-present fixture he remains in Hollywood today, you'd think Brad Pitt would have won an Oscar by now; while serving as producer of 2014 Best Picture winner 12 Years a Slave , he currently has zero acting wins to his name despite three nominations ( Twelve Monkeys , The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and Moneyball ). 2015 Getty Images

4/14 Samuel L. Jackson Considering he's one of the most bankable film stars in the world, it's a surprise that - with over 160 credits to his name - Samuel L. Jackson has only received a mere one nomination ( Pulp Fiction in 1994). 2016 Getty Images

5/14 Tom Cruise Still one of the biggest movie stars on the planet, Tom Cruise seemed like a sure awards bet back in the Nineties with films Born on the Fourth of July , Jerry Maguire and Magnolia all earning him nominations - and yet, he never once emerged victorious. 2015 Getty Images

6/14 Richard Gere Would you believe us if we told you Richard Gere has never even been nominated? Well, it's true - and, quite honestly, shocks us quite a bit. Poor guy. Juan Naharro Gimenez

7/14 Gary Oldman One of the film industry's finest character actors, Gary Oldman has been nominated just the once for playing George Smiley in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy . 2014 Getty Images

8/14 Johnny Depp Despite his recent dip in quality, Johnny Depp has delivered several Oscar-worthy performances in the past. With a total of three nominations to his name - all for post-2000 releases including Pirates of the Caribbean and Finding Neverland - it's more a wonder he didn't receive more recognition for standout films such as Ed Wood and Donnie Brasco in the Nineties. 2015 Getty Images

9/14 Harrison Ford Harrison Ford may now be the world's highest-grossing actor (sorry, Samuel) but still doesn't have the Academy Award to back up such a feat. In fact, he's now into his third decade of not receiving recognition from the Academy with his sole nomination arriving back in 1985 for Witness .

10/14 Edward Norton Edward Norton is just the kind of actor you'd assume would've scooped a statuette at some stage or another, but no - Norton just has three nominations to speak of; his first in 1996 ( Primal Fear ), his second in 1999 ( American History X ) and his third just last year (Best Picture winner, Birdman ).

11/14 John Malkovich American actor John Malkovich was nominated once in 1984 ( Places in the Heart ) and again in 1993 ( In the Line of Fire ) but hasn't posed much of a threat since. 2013 Getty Images

12/14 Annette Bening Poor Annette Bening, who has come close to victory four times ( The Grifters , American Beauty , Being Julia and The Kids Are All Right ) but is yet to clinch one. 2015 Getty Images

13/14 Glenn Close ...well, it could be worse; she could be Glenn Close who has been on the shortlist six times for films including Fatal Attraction , Dangerous Liaisons and, most recently, Albert Nobbs .

14/14 Helena Bonham Carter Helena Bonham Carter may have received a Best Actress nomination for Wings of a Dove (1997), but it was her Best Supporting Actress nomination for 2012's Best Picture winner The King's Speech that seemed a sure bet; Melissa Leo's role in The Fighter won that round. 2015 Getty Images

The BAFTA-winning actor can currently be seen in Jackie which earned Natalie Portman a Best Actress Oscar nomination earlier this week.