Sunday: Reince Priebus, John McCain, Keith Ellison
Sunday: Reince Priebus, John McCain, Keith Ellison
Incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus talks with “Face the Nation” in an interview broadcast on Jan. 8 2016.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  It’s been a whirlwind first week for President Trump, who hit the ground running with an aggressive series of executive actions and legislative goals. This Sunday, “Face the Nation” takes a step back to examine what Mr. Trump’s kickoff might tell us about the years to come – and how Democrats plan to fight back. We’ll talk to White House chief of staff Reince Priebus about Mr. Trump’s moves on immigration, healthcare, trade, and more. Opponents say Mr. Trump’s restrictions on entry from Muslim-majority countries are un-American and unconstitutional – what does the White House say? And what are the next steps on Mr. Trump’s agenda? We’ll also interview Arizona Sen. John McCain, a Republican who has voiced support for some of Mr. Trump’s proposals and cabinet nominees while criticizing the president’s posture on Russia, trade, immigration, and more. What does he make of the president’s first week? How does he see the relationship between Mr. Trump and Congress evolving? Turning to the Democrats, we’ll hear from Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minnesota, who’s running to be chair of the Democratic National Committee. How will Ellison and the Democrats respond to Mr. Trump’s move to suspend refugee entry into the U.S.? What will be the political ramifications of that fight? As always, we’ll break down the busy news week with an expert political panel. This week, we’ll hear from Slate’s Jamelle Bouie, who’s also a CBS News Political Analyst, The Atlantic’s Molly Ball,  New York Times White House Correspondent Peter Baker, and conservative talk radio host Hugh Hewitt, the author of a new book, “The Fourth Way: The Conservative Playbook for a Lasting GOP Majority.” It’s going to be an exciting broadcast, so make sure you tune in! Check your local listings for airtimes.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

It’s been a whirlwind first week for President Trump, who hit the ground running with an aggressive series of executive actions and legislative goals. This Sunday, “Face the Nation” takes a step back to examine what Mr. Trump’s kickoff might tell us about the years to come – and how Democrats plan to fight back.

We’ll talk to White House chief of staff Reince Priebus about Mr. Trump’s moves on immigration, healthcare, trade, and more. Opponents say Mr. Trump’s restrictions on entry from Muslim-majority countries are un-American and unconstitutional – what does the White House say? And what are the next steps on Mr. Trump’s agenda?

We’ll also interview Arizona Sen. John McCain, a Republican who has voiced support for some of Mr. Trump’s proposals and cabinet nominees while criticizing the president’s posture on Russia, trade, immigration, and more. What does he make of the president’s first week? How does he see the relationship between Mr. Trump and Congress evolving?

Turning to the Democrats, we’ll hear from Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minnesota, who’s running to be chair of the Democratic National Committee. How will Ellison and the Democrats respond to Mr. Trump’s move to suspend refugee entry into the U.S.? What will be the political ramifications of that fight?

As always, we’ll break down the busy news week with an expert political panel. This week, we’ll hear from Slate’s Jamelle Bouie, who’s also a CBS News Political Analyst, The Atlantic’s Molly Ball, New York Times White House Correspondent Peter Baker, and conservative talk radio host Hugh Hewitt, the author of a new book, “The Fourth Way: The Conservative Playbook for a Lasting GOP Majority.”

It’s going to be an exciting broadcast, so make sure you tune in! Check your local listings for airtimes.