Revealed: How a quiet word from Prince Charles convinced director to make film restoring reputation of his beloved godfather Lord Mountbatten
Revealed: How a quiet word from Prince Charles convinced director to make film restoring reputation of his beloved godfather Lord Mountbatten
s India’s last viceroy, Lord Mountbatten has been vilified as the architect of a Partition that brutally divided a nation. To his great-nephew, the Prince of Wales , that reputation was undeserved. A new film has been made that attempts to clear Mountbatten of blame for the tumultuous events of 1947, and the prince played a key role in its production. Viceroy’s House, starring Hugh Bonneville as Mountbatten and Gillian Anderson as his wife, Edwina, is directed by Gurinder Chadha, whose previous hits include Bend It Like Beckham. he was researching Partition when she began chatting to the prince at a St James’s Palace reception for the British-Asian Trust, of which he is patron and she is an ambassador. “I couldn’t resist telling him that I was making a film about his great-uncle,” Chadha recalls. “Prince Charles said, ‘You have to read this book. It tells you what was really going on.” The book was The Shadow of the Great Game by Narendra Singh, who was a maharajah and aide-de-camp to Mountbatten. e argues that Partition was driven by Britain’s desire to have an independent Pakistan as a political ally, preventing the strategically important port of Karachi from falling into the hands of the Russians. Chadha met with Singh, who had gone on to be India’s ambassador to France, and he told her of two declassified government documents he had discovered in the British Library. One was dated 1945 and suggested parts of India be broken off to serve British strategic interests, with Winston Churchill's approval. It was headed: "War Cabinet - Top Secret- Post-Hostilies Planning." Singh believes that Britain had been clandestinely supporting the creation of Pakistan as a key ally, as a way of blocking the Soviet Union’s access to oil in the Persian Gulf. e was convinced that Mountbatten was not aware that the British government wanted Partition for their own reasons. The film portrays Mountbatten as a man duped into his role in one of the bloodiest episodes of the 20th century, when an estimated 14 million people were displaced and up to one million killed in violence between Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims. He is shown negotiating with Nehru, Jinnah and Gandhi over the future of India, but is then horrified to discover that the British have already drawn up secret Partition plans. ountbatten tells his chief of staff, Lord Ismay, that the government will have blood on its hands. Lord Ismay replies: “But, Dickie, it’s your name on the plan. It will always be known as the Mountbatten Plan.” Edwina, Countess Mountbatten, is shown reassuring her husband: “This tragedy was not of your making.” Chadha said of her film: “One has to understand that throughout India Mountbatten is vilified.” She conceded that some in India and Pakistan “may well be unpersuaded by my interpretation of events, but I have read the documents and spoken to the people closest to Mountbatten at the time and it feels like the right interpretation." he interpretation is sure to please the Prince of Wales, who adored his great-uncle and describes him as “the grandfather I never had”. In a speech in Mumbai, the prince said he had grown up surrounded by objects and photographs from India. “I developed a particular interest and love and, indeed, passion for this part of the world,” he said. Viceroy’s House also presents a sympathetic view of Cyril Radcliffe, the British lawyer tasked with deciding where the partition boundaries should lie. adcliffe had just 40 days to complete the job, having never set foot in India before. In the film, he describes partition as “a bloody axe cleaving right through people’s lives” and refuses his fee. The border became known as The Radcliffe Line. Chadha described her film as “an Upstairs, Downstairs vision of Partition”, focusing both on the political negotiations and a fictional love story between a Hindu valet to Lord Mountbatten and a Muslim translator for the Mountbattens’ daughter, Pamela. he was inspired to make the film after appearing in a 2005 edition of the BBC One show Who Do You Think You Are? Born in Kenya and raised in Britain from early childhood, she returned to her family’s roots in the Punjab and discovered the terrible toll that Partition had taken on her grandparents. The film has the approval of Lady Pamela Mountbatten, played on screen by Lily Travers. Lady Pamela had a private screening and “was absolutely delighted,” Chadha said, “although she did say her father was slimmer than Hugh! “She was quite overcome with the way the film brought back memories of that period of her life.”

As India’s last viceroy, Lord Mountbatten has been vilified as the architect of a Partition that brutally divided a nation.

To his great-nephew, the Prince of Wales, that reputation was undeserved.

A new film has been made that attempts to clear Mountbatten of blame for the tumultuous events of 1947, and the prince played a key role in its production.

Viceroy’s House, starring Hugh Bonneville as Mountbatten and Gillian Anderson as his wife, Edwina, is directed by Gurinder Chadha, whose previous hits include Bend It Like Beckham.