Literally Every Time Meryl Streep Has Been Nominated For An Oscar
Literally Every Time Meryl Streep Has Been Nominated For An Oscar
So, unless you’ve legitimately been sleeping for 5 decades, you know that this is Meryl Streep: You also know that Queen Meryl is a superstar actress who is both iconic and legendary and also has no equal. Some people disagree, though… Meryl Streep is overrated af. Meryl Streep is overrated as an actress. She often overacts. Won academy for Kramer vs Kramer and had very small part. Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a..... Ok, cooooooooooooool. So, let’s just take a trip down Queen Meryl’s memory lane and look at every time she has been nominated for (or won) an Academy Award. 1979: Nominated for Best Supporting Actress in Scratching her leg. Legendary. 1980: Won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 1982: Nominated for Best Actress in 1983: Won the Oscar for Best Actress in 1984: Nominated for Best Actress in The soft smile! I am no longer able to speak. 1986: Nominated for Best Actress in 1988: Nominated for Best Actress in Look at this absolutely iconic competition. 1989: Nominated for Best Actress in 1991: Nominated for Best Actress in 1996: Nominated for Best Actress in 1999: Nominated for Best Actress in Queen Meryl walking the red carpet that was probably rolled out only because she was coming to the ceremony. 2000: Nominated for Best Actress in I bet you haven’t seen this movie. 2003: Nominated for Best Supporting Actress in 2007: Nominated for Best Actress in Absolutely breathtaking: She is waving at someone who is not you. 2009: Nominated for Best Actress in 2010: Nominated for Best Actress in Queen of sitting, queen of looking flawless, queen of smiling. 2012: Won the Oscar for Best Actress in 2014: Nominated for Best Actress in Some fans wanted to take a picture with Queen Meryl! 2015: Nominated for Best Supporting Actress in 2017: Nominated for Best Actress in IDK what this movie is about! So, in conclusion, I have made a video for you to watch every time that you think to yourself, “Oh, maybe I should tweet about how Meryl Streep is overrated!”   18 Hilarious Tweets About Beyoncé's Pregnancy Announcement...    The New "Baywatch" Character Posters Will Quench Your...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Meryl Streep is overrated as an actress. She often overacts. Won academy for Kramer vs Kramer and had very small part.

Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a.....

So, let’s just take a trip down Queen Meryl’s memory lane and look at every time she has been nominated for (or won) an Academy Award.

ID: 10395438