8 Silicon Valley CEOs Who Condemned Donald Trump's Immigration Order In The Strongest Of Words
8 Silicon Valley CEOs Who Condemned Donald Trump's Immigration Order In The Strongest Of Words
8 Silicon Valley CEOs Who Condemned Donald Trump's Immigration Order In The Strongest Of Words Following President Donald Trump's immigration order , the biggest firms of the Silicon Valley are breaking their silence and coming out in support of their employees that the ban affects. The response to the executive order is one of pain, fear, and frustration. Here's how some of the biggest CEOs of the Valley have reacted. 1. Tim Cook, Apple In his memo to employees, Cook wrote, 2. Google, Sundar Pichai In a memo to his staff , CEO Pichai said,

Following President Donald Trump's immigration order, the biggest firms of the Silicon Valley are breaking their silence and coming out in support of their employees that the ban affects. The response to the executive order is one of pain, fear, and frustration.

AP

Here's how some of the biggest CEOs of the Valley have reacted.

1. Tim Cook, Apple

In his memo to employees, Cook wrote,

"Team,

In my conversations with officials here in Washington this week, I've made it clear that Apple believes deeply in the importance of immigration -- both to our company and to our nation's future. Apple would not exist without immigration, let alone thrive and innovate the way we do.

I've heard from many of you who are deeply concerned about the executive order issued yesterday restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. I share your concerns. It is not a policy we support.

There are employees at Apple who are directly affected by yesterday's immigration order. Our HR, Legal and Security teams are in contact with them, and Apple will do everything we can to support them. We’re providing resources on AppleWeb for anyone with questions or concerns about immigration policies. And we have reached out to the White House to explain the negative effect on our coworkers and our company.

Reuters

As I've said many times, diversity makes our team stronger. And if there’s one thing I know about the people at Apple, it’s the depth of our empathy and support for one another. It’s as important now as it’s ever been, and it will not weaken one bit. I know I can count on all of you to make sure everyone at Apple feels welcome, respected and valued.

Apple is open. Open to everyone, no matter where they come from, which language they speak, who they love or how they worship. Our employees represent the finest talent in the world, and our team hails from every corner of the globe.

In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, "We may have all come on different ships, but we are in the same boat now."

2. Google, Sundar Pichai

In a memo to his staff, CEO Pichai said, "We're upset about the impact of this order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their families, or that could create barriers to bringing great talent to the US. It’s painful to see the personal cost of this executive order on our colleagues. Our first order of business is to help Googlers who are affected. If you’re abroad and need help please reach out to our global security team."

Reuters

Taking the fight to the ground, Google co-founder Sergey Brin has now joined the protest against immigration order at San Francisco airport.

Google cofounder Sergey Brin at SFO protest: "I'm here because I'm a refugee." (Photo from Matt Kang/Forbes) pic.twitter.com/GwhsSwDPLT — Ryan Mac (@RMac18) January 29, 2017

3. Tesla, Elon Musk

CEO Elon Musk - who joined Trump's Manufacturing Jobs Initiative just yesterday - didn't think twice before strongly condemning the ban and said,

The blanket entry ban on citizens from certain primarily Muslim countries is not the best way to address the country’s challenges — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 29, 2017

4. Microsoft, Satya Nadella

Microsoft's Chief Executive, Nadella also posted a memo from the company President and Chief Legal officer, Brad Smith, which read,

"As a company, Microsoft believes in a strong and balanced high-skilled immigration system. We also believe in broader immigration opportunities, like the protections for talented and law-abiding young people under the Deferred Access for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Program, often called "Dreamers". We believe that immigration laws can and should protect the public without sacrificing people’s freedom of expression or religion. And we believe in the importance of protecting legitimate and law-abiding refugees whose very lives may be at stake in immigration proceedings."

Reuters

Nadella added to this and wrote,

"As an immigrant and as a CEO, I’ve both experienced and seen the positive impact that immigration has on our company, for the country, and for the world. We will continue to advocate on this important topic."

5. Twitter, Jack Dorsey

Twitter CEO posted his statement on Twitter, where he called Trump's order "real and upsetting",

The Executive Order's humanitarian and economic impact is real and upsetting. We benefit from what refugees and immigrants bring to the U.S. https://t.co/HdwVGzIECt — jack (@jack) January 28, 2017

6. Uber, Travis Kalanick

The Uber CEO took to Facebook where he expressed his thoughts on the ban. He wrote,

"We are working out a process to identify these drivers and compensate them pro bono during the next three months to help mitigate some of the financial stress and complications with supporting their families and putting food on the table. We will have more details on this in the coming days."

7. Netflix, CEO Reed Hastings

Calling it "a very sad week", Hastings wrote on Facebook,

"Trump's actions are hurting Netflix employees around the world, and are so un-American it pains us all. Worse, these actions will make America less safe (through hatred and loss of allies) rather than more safe.

netflix

A very sad week, and more to come with the lives of over 600,000 Dreamers here in a America under imminent threat. It is time to link arms together to protect American values of freedom and opportunity."

8. Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg

Zuckerberg voiced his opinion on Trump's decision in powerful words and said,

"Like many of you, I'm concerned about the impact of the recent executive orders signed by President Trump.

We need to keep this country safe, but we should do that by focusing on people who actually pose a threat. Expanding the focus of law enforcement beyond people who are real threats would make all Americans less safe by diverting resources, while millions of undocumented folks who don't pose a threat will live in fear of deportation.

FB

We should also keep our doors open to refugees and those who need help. That's who we are. Had we turned away refugees a few decades ago, Priscilla's family wouldn't be here today."