2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trailhawk: A Take-No-Prisoners SUV
2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trailhawk: A Take-No-Prisoners SUV
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kelley Blue Book       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo ©2017 Kelley Blue Book There are SUVs on the market that are every bit as capable off-road as the 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trailhawk, but all of them — an intimidating list of pricey imports — cost many hard earned dollars more than America’s most capable five-passenger crossover. And don’t discount the uncomfortable guilt associated with bouncing ruthlessly over moguls, trouncing through riverbeds of gravel, and making the world’s largest muddy splash in a vehicle that feels more at home wandering the streets of Beverly Hills. Jeep has introduced a Trailhawk version of its popular Grand Cherokee crossover for the 2017 model year. As expected with any Jeep carrying the “Trailhawk” nomenclature, the new trim is uniquely equipped for those who choose serious off-road adventures. As such, it has been upgraded both cosmetically and mechanically for its new hardened role. Visually, the exterior of the Trailhawk is distinguished by a matte black hood (it’s a vinyl decal, not paint) and two bright red tow hooks that protrude from beneath the front bumper. The roof rack, front grille, and badging are all pained in neutral gray. The interior boasts leather- and suede-trimmed seats with red accent stitching, red accent stitching on the doors, and brushed piano black hydrographic appliqués — it sounds odd, but it looks great. Photo ©2017 Kelley Blue Book Beneath the skin are additional skid plates to complement the standard Quadra-Drive II four-wheel-drive system with a two-speed transfer case, an electronic rear limited-slip differential, and Quadra-Lift air suspension (tuned specifically for the new role). Standard 18-inch wheel are fitted with Kevlar-reinforced Goodyear Adventure tires. According to Jeep, the Trailhawk features a 25.7° approach angle, 22.8° breakover angle, 27.1° departure angle and 10.8 inches of ground clearance. Those figures are solid, but some hard-core off-road junkies even remove the front air dam to further improve some of those numbers! Jeep offers buyers a choice between three engines. Standard fitment is a 3.6-liter ‘Pentastar’ V6, which is rated at 295 horsepower and 260 pound-feet of torque. Those desiring a bit more brawn will opt for the 5.7-liter ‘Hemi’ V8, which delivers 360 horsepower and 390 pound-feet of torque. My favorite, but not fitted to my pictured test vehicle, is the 3.0-liter ‘EcoDiesel’ turbodiesel that is rated at 240 horsepower and 420 pound-feet of torque — a fabulous mix of stump-pulling torque and efficiency. The cabin of the Trailhawk is comfortable and accommodating — my six-foot two-inch frame fits perfectly in either the front or rear seats. Both rows offer a commanding view of the outside world (kudos to Jeep for the B-pillar grab handles for second-row passengers), but the driver may find the A-pillars and large exterior mirrors block some vision to the corners. Three adults will fit in the second row without much effort, as the seat bolstering is shallow and the floor ‘hump’ very small — my teenage kids both gave the second row ‘thumbs-up’ ratings. Photo ©2017 Kelley Blue Book Passenger accommodations within the Grand Cherokee are notable, but so is utility and cargo space. The trunk area is large, but slick metal rails that run lengthwise on its floor allow everything to slide around (I assume they are designed to protect the carpet?). To combat the bashing and crashing of cargo, I employed tie-downs that latched into handy metal hooks on all four corners of the floor. Drop the 60/40 split second row seats, and the cargo space is enormous (five-feet eight-inches from front seat to hatch) — I can nearly lie down flat in it. As a refresher, the fourth-generation Grand Cherokee shares chassis architecture with the Mercedes-Benz GLE (credit the DaimlerChrysler era, which ended a decade ago). Despite its age, the Chrysler designed platform is still one of the best on the road — its on-road manners are notable. Acceleration with the gasoline-fed V6 is good (its 0-60 MPH time is just over 7 seconds), with most credit going to the smooth shifting 8-speed automatic transmission. It moves swiftly off the line, only feeling a bit lethargic when asked to downshift at higher speeds. The EcoDiesel commands a $4,500 price premium, which is steep, but it delivers impressive low-end grunt and upwards of 28 MPG on the highway (plus a cruising range of nearly 700 miles per tank!).    Trending on {{channel_name}}

There are SUVs on the market that are every bit as capable off-road as the 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trailhawk, but all of them — an intimidating list of pricey imports — cost many hard earned dollars more than America’s most capable five-passenger crossover. And don’t discount the uncomfortable guilt associated with bouncing ruthlessly over moguls, trouncing through riverbeds of gravel, and making the world’s largest muddy splash in a vehicle that feels more at home wandering the streets of Beverly Hills.

Jeep has introduced a Trailhawk version of its popular Grand Cherokee crossover for the 2017 model year. As expected with any Jeep carrying the “Trailhawk” nomenclature, the new trim is uniquely equipped for those who choose serious off-road adventures. As such, it has been upgraded both cosmetically and mechanically for its new hardened role.

Also on Forbes:

Visually, the exterior of the Trailhawk is distinguished by a matte black hood (it’s a vinyl decal, not paint) and two bright red tow hooks that protrude from beneath the front bumper. The roof rack, front grille, and badging are all pained in neutral gray. The interior boasts leather- and suede-trimmed seats with red accent stitching, red accent stitching on the doors, and brushed piano black hydrographic appliqués — it sounds odd, but it looks great.

Beneath the skin are additional skid plates to complement the standard Quadra-Drive II four-wheel-drive system with a two-speed transfer case, an electronic rear limited-slip differential, and Quadra-Lift air suspension (tuned specifically for the new role). Standard 18-inch wheel are fitted with Kevlar-reinforced Goodyear Adventure tires. According to Jeep, the Trailhawk features a 25.7° approach angle, 22.8° breakover angle, 27.1° departure angle and 10.8 inches of ground clearance. Those figures are solid, but some hard-core off-road junkies even remove the front air dam to further improve some of those numbers!

Jeep offers buyers a choice between three engines. Standard fitment is a 3.6-liter ‘Pentastar’ V6, which is rated at 295 horsepower and 260 pound-feet of torque. Those desiring a bit more brawn will opt for the 5.7-liter ‘Hemi’ V8, which delivers 360 horsepower and 390 pound-feet of torque. My favorite, but not fitted to my pictured test vehicle, is the 3.0-liter ‘EcoDiesel’ turbodiesel that is rated at 240 horsepower and 420 pound-feet of torque — a fabulous mix of stump-pulling torque and efficiency.

The cabin of the Trailhawk is comfortable and accommodating — my six-foot two-inch frame fits perfectly in either the front or rear seats. Both rows offer a commanding view of the outside world (kudos to Jeep for the B-pillar grab handles for second-row passengers), but the driver may find the A-pillars and large exterior mirrors block some vision to the corners. Three adults will fit in the second row without much effort, as the seat bolstering is shallow and the floor ‘hump’ very small — my teenage kids both gave the second row ‘thumbs-up’ ratings.

Passenger accommodations within the Grand Cherokee are notable, but so is utility and cargo space. The trunk area is large, but slick metal rails that run lengthwise on its floor allow everything to slide around (I assume they are designed to protect the carpet?). To combat the bashing and crashing of cargo, I employed tie-downs that latched into handy metal hooks on all four corners of the floor. Drop the 60/40 split second row seats, and the cargo space is enormous (five-feet eight-inches from front seat to hatch) — I can nearly lie down flat in it.

As a refresher, the fourth-generation Grand Cherokee shares chassis architecture with the Mercedes-Benz GLE (credit the DaimlerChrysler era, which ended a decade ago). Despite its age, the Chrysler designed platform is still one of the best on the road — its on-road manners are notable. Acceleration with the gasoline-fed V6 is good (its 0-60 MPH time is just over 7 seconds), with most credit going to the smooth shifting 8-speed automatic transmission. It moves swiftly off the line, only feeling a bit lethargic when asked to downshift at higher speeds. The EcoDiesel commands a $4,500 price premium, which is steep, but it delivers impressive low-end grunt and upwards of 28 MPG on the highway (plus a cruising range of nearly 700 miles per tank!).