You can now apply to look after 37,000 puffins and baby seals on a remote island
You can now apply to look after 37,000 puffins and baby seals on a remote island
Sometimes, it can be all too tempting to disappear from the Rat Race and get away from it all for a bit. Now, The National Trust might just be presenting the perfect opportunity – they’re looking for someone to look after the wildlife on the Farne Islands. The territory, located off the coast of Northumberland, is a haven of seal pups and birds – with some 200 seals born there every year. As well as tending to the adorable creatures, the successful applicant will also be entrusted with looking after the 37,000 pair of puffins that live on the islands – while also occasionally saving the lives of soaked Arctic tern chicks by drying them with a hairdryer. But while the role sounds particularly idyllic, it’s also worth noting that there is no running water and harsh storms can leave residents marooned for weeks at a time. wen Potter,  National Trust countryside manager for the Northumberland Coast, said: ‘This job isn’t the normal nine to five. Being good with PowerPoint isn’t a priority. ‘We’re looking for someone with a passion for wildlife and conservation – and who wants to share that passion with others. ‘Rangers have been based on the Farne Islands for almost 190 years, with scientists carrying out research here for decades. Last year a -backed study found that a Farne Islands Arctic tern had made a record-breaking migration, flying 96,000km to Antarctica and back. ‘Living here you truly feel like you’re on the edge of the world. It’s a wildlife-lover’s paradise: open the curtains in the morning and you’re greeted with crowds of fluffy seal pups or scampering Arctic tern chicks. ‘As a ranger you’ll be in charge of monitoring the wildlife and seals on the islands – as well as assisting with scientific research.’ Convinced? The job offers a salary of £17, 292, including accommodation, and you can apply here before the position closes on February 7.

Sometimes, it can be all too tempting to disappear from the Rat Race and get away from it all for a bit.

Now, The National Trust might just be presenting the perfect opportunity – they’re looking for someone to look after the wildlife on the Farne Islands.

The territory, located off the coast of Northumberland, is a haven of seal pups and birds – with some 200 seals born there every year.

As well as tending to the adorable creatures, the successful applicant will also be entrusted with looking after the 37,000 pair of puffins that live on the islands – while also occasionally saving the lives of soaked Arctic tern chicks by drying them with a hairdryer.

View photos There’s plenty of puffins on Farne Islands (Picture: REX Features) More

But while the role sounds particularly idyllic, it’s also worth noting that there is no running water and harsh storms can leave residents marooned for weeks at a time.

Gwen Potter, National Trust countryside manager for the Northumberland Coast, said: ‘This job isn’t the normal nine to five. Being good with PowerPoint isn’t a priority.

‘We’re looking for someone with a passion for wildlife and conservation – and who wants to share that passion with others.

‘Rangers have been based on the Farne Islands for almost 190 years, with scientists carrying out research here for decades. Last year a Springwatch-backed study found that a Farne Islands Arctic tern had made a record-breaking migration, flying 96,000km to Antarctica and back.

MORE: Couple celebrating 70th anniversary say ‘a lot of bleeding patience’ is the secret to a happy marriage

MORE: The best 25 jobs in the UK for 2017 identified – ranked on money, satisfaction and opportunity

‘Living here you truly feel like you’re on the edge of the world. It’s a wildlife-lover’s paradise: open the curtains in the morning and you’re greeted with crowds of fluffy seal pups or scampering Arctic tern chicks.

‘As a ranger you’ll be in charge of monitoring the wildlife and seals on the islands – as well as assisting with scientific research.’

Convinced? The job offers a salary of £17, 292, including accommodation, and you can apply here before the position closes on February 7.