Pogue’s Basics: Enable Wi-Fi calling for perfect cell service
Pogue’s Basics: Enable Wi-Fi calling for perfect cell service
It’s a fact of life: You have better cell service your house than it. Which is a shame, since it’d be awfully nice to have, and pay for, only phone number (your cellphone’s) instead of two (your landline’s as well). But most modern iPhones and Androids harbor a handy little secret: They can carry your calls by In other words, your home’s Wi-Fi hotspot acts as a big ol’ indoor cell tower just for you. On the iPhone, you turn on this feature in Settings to Phone > Wi-Fi Calling. On Android, of course, the steps (and the feature itself) depend on which phone model you have and which version of Android it has. But in general, you should find it in Settings > Wireless & network > More (or More Settings, or Advanced Settings). On either kind of phone, you’re now looking at the Wi-Fi Calling switch. Turn it on. And that’s it! Now, whenever your phone is home, it can make Verizon, AT&T, Sprint or T-Mobile calls with incredible clarity and perfect signal. When you leave the Wi-Fi, it seamlessly switches over to the cellular network. You’re welcome! More from Pogue: iOS 10 Hidden Feature: Bedtime-consistency management Pogue’s Basics: Money – The Amazon card iOS 10 Hidden Feature: Do Not Disturb Emergency Bypass Pogue’s Basics: Money – Extended warranties Pogue’s cheap, unexpected tech gifts #2: ThinOptics glasses A dozen iOS 10 feature gems that Apple forgot to mention GoPro’s most exciting mount yet: a drone Professional-looking blurry backgrounds come to the iPhone 7 Plus Pogue’s Basics: Turn off Samsung’s Smart Guide Pogue Basics: Touch and hold Google Maps The Apple Watch 2 is faster, waterproof—and more overloaded than ever We sent a balloon into space — and an epic scavenger hunt ensued Now I get it: Snapchat The new Fitbits are smarter, better-looking, and more well-rounded Apple has killed every jack but one: Meet USB-C

It’s a fact of life: You have better cell service outside your house than inside it. Which is a shame, since it’d be awfully nice to have, and pay for, only one phone number (your cellphone’s) instead of two (your landline’s as well).

But most modern iPhones and Androids harbor a handy little secret: They can carry your calls by Wi-Fi. In other words, your home’s Wi-Fi hotspot acts as a big ol’ indoor cell tower just for you.

On the iPhone, you turn on this feature in Settings to Phone > Wi-Fi Calling.

On Android, of course, the steps (and the feature itself) depend on which phone model you have and which version of Android it has. But in general, you should find it in Settings > Wireless & network > More (or More Settings, or Advanced Settings).

On either kind of phone, you’re now looking at the Wi-Fi Calling switch. Turn it on.

And that’s it! Now, whenever your phone is home, it can make Verizon, AT&T, Sprint or T-Mobile calls with incredible clarity and perfect signal. When you leave the Wi-Fi, it seamlessly switches over to the cellular network.

You’re welcome!

More from Pogue:

iOS 10 Hidden Feature: Bedtime-consistency management

Pogue’s Basics: Money – The Amazon card

iOS 10 Hidden Feature: Do Not Disturb Emergency Bypass

Pogue’s Basics: Money – Extended warranties

Pogue’s cheap, unexpected tech gifts #2: ThinOptics glasses

A dozen iOS 10 feature gems that Apple forgot to mention

GoPro’s most exciting mount yet: a drone

Professional-looking blurry backgrounds come to the iPhone 7 Plus

Pogue’s Basics: Turn off Samsung’s Smart Guide

Pogue Basics: Touch and hold Google Maps

The Apple Watch 2 is faster, waterproof—and more overloaded than ever

We sent a balloon into space — and an epic scavenger hunt ensued

Now I get it: Snapchat

The new Fitbits are smarter, better-looking, and more well-rounded

Apple has killed every jack but one: Meet USB-C