What happens when you don't brush your teeth
This is what REALLY happens when you don't brush your teeth


It's something that most people do at least twice a day but for anyone whose ever skipped cleaning their teeth, you may want to read on.

According to dentists, skipping the twice daily cleanse can lead to all sorts of health issues such as loose teeth, bleeding gums and even coronary heart disease.

Here, Dr Ken Harris of Riveredge Cosmetic Dentistry in the North East, Dr Sameer Patel, Clinical Director of elleven and Dr Adam Thorne of Harley Street Dental Studio, reveal what really happens when you skip brushing your teeth.

Dentists reveal the health issues such as loose teeth, bleeding gums and even coronary heart disease, that can occur if you don't clean your teeth enough

Bad breath: If you fall into the habit of not brushing your teeth and your tongue regularly, this can cause a build-up of plaque, a clear sticky film on your teeth, and bacteria. Aside from bad breath, not removing plaque can lead to decay, cavities in your teeth and irreparable damage to the tooth structure.

If you don’t brush your teeth then the bugs that live in your mouth will literally take over. It also means that food particles will remain in your mouth which can cause bacteria to grow and cause bad breath.

Coronary heart disease: The toxins and bacteria in your mouth can get into your blood stream and connect themselves to the coronary arteries, causing a potential blockage, which could lead to a heart attack.

THE PERFECT BRUSHING TECHNIQUE Brush teeth twice a day for at least two minutes, in the morning before breakfast and in the evening before you go to sleep Use fluoride toothpaste and a softly bristled brush The bristles should come into contact with both the gumline and surface of your teeth, the brush should be held at a 45-degree angle against your gums and rather than scrubbing teeth back-and-forth, gently move your brush in circular motions Replace your toothbrush every three months

Bleeding gums: Brushing your teeth stimulates blood flow to the gums, which is an important part of oral health. If the teeth aren’t brushed, then you’re setting yourself up for inflamed, bleeding gums.

Loose teeth: Failing to clean your teeth can eventually lead to periodontitis, which, if not treated, can damage the bone in your jaw and open up spaces between the gums and your teeth, which can lead to teeth becoming loose.

No kissing! The chances of anyone wanting to get up close and personal when you’ve got teeth that are decaying through lack of care and bits of food which are stuck between your teeth are going to be minimal.

Teeth staining: This is also inevitable, as the colour from food and drink with staining properties such as red wine, curry and coffee stick to the plaque, which has formed and causes discolouration if not brushed away.



