Watch John Legend Slam Donald Trump at PGA Awards: 'America Has To Be Better Than That'
Watch John Legend Slam Donald Trump at PGA Awards: 'America Has To Be Better Than That'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Hillary Clinton Goes 'Gaga' For Super Bowl Performance (But Trump Was Only Watching the Game) Watch John Legend Slam Donald Trump at PGA Awards: 'America Has To Be Better Than That'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  'Apprentice' creator Mark Burnett was also booed at the Producers Guild of America Awards. The Producers Guild of America held its annual awards ceremony Saturday night in Los Angeles following a day that saw protests at airports across the country in response to president Donald Trump's recent restrictions on immigration. The news of the #MuslimBan resistance resulted in a number of honorees and notables at the evening's PGA Awards to offer their sentiments on the issue.  In kicking off the evening, PGA president Lori McCreary said, "For now, more than ever, we have the need, the ability, to create content that expresses our true values. John Legend addressed Trump while onstage "Los Angeles is the home of so many immigrants, so many creative people, so many dreamers. Our America is big, it is free, and it is open to dreamers of all races, all countries, all religions. Our vision of America is directly antithetical to that of President Trump. I want to specifically tonight reject his vision and affirm that America has to be better than that." "Now more than ever we need to remember the words on the Statue of Liberty," McCreary said in reference to the inscription on the sculpture that reads, in part: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free." Presenting their father Tom Rothman with the Milestone Award, Elizabeth and Nora Rothman also subtly protested Trump as they took to the stage sporting pink "pussy hats," receiving a standing ovation for their fashion statement.  While presenting the Stanley Kramer award which honors the film that helps raise public awareness of important social issues to , Thandie Newton said, "We may lose the small battles but we will win the big war." Colin Firth, who was one of the film's producers, accepted the award saying, "This is for Richard & Mildred Loving, the ACLU and for everyone whose families are being separated by the discrimination of others." The air in the room appeared to shift as producer Mark Burnett accepted the award for outstanding producer of competition television. Soft boos and murmurs in the audience could be heard. 20th Century Women producer Megan Ellison, upon receiving the Visionary award, told the crowd, "The scariest thing we can do now, or ever, is to shut up."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

John Legend onstage during the 74th Annual Golden Globe Awards at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Jan.Â 8, 2017 in Beverly Hills, Calif.Â

'Apprentice' creator Mark Burnett was also booed at the Producers Guild of America Awards.

The Producers Guild of America held its annual awards ceremony Saturday night in Los Angeles following a day that saw protests at airports across the country in response to president Donald Trump's recent restrictions on immigration.

The news of the #MuslimBan resistance resulted in a number of honorees and notables at the evening's PGA Awards to offer their sentiments on the issue.

In kicking off the evening, PGA president Lori McCreary said, "For now, more than ever, we have the need, the ability, to create content that expresses our true values.

John Legend addressed Trump while onstage "Los Angeles is the home of so many immigrants, so many creative people, so many dreamers. Our America is big, it is free, and it is open to dreamers of all races, all countries, all religions. Our vision of America is directly antithetical to that of President Trump. I want to specifically tonight reject his vision and affirm that America has to be better than that."

"Now more than ever we need to remember the words on the Statue of Liberty," McCreary said in reference to the inscription on the sculpture that reads, in part: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."

Presenting their father Tom Rothman with the Milestone Award, Elizabeth and Nora Rothman also subtly protested Trump as they took to the stage sporting pink "pussy hats," receiving a standing ovation for their fashion statement.

While presenting the Stanley Kramer award which honors the film that helps raise public awareness of important social issues to Loving, Thandie Newton said, "We may lose the small battles but we will win the big war." Colin Firth, who was one of the film's producers, accepted the award saying, "This is for Richard & Mildred Loving, the ACLU and for everyone whose families are being separated by the discrimination of others."

The air in the room appeared to shift as Celebrity Apprentice producer Mark Burnett accepted the award for outstanding producer of competition television. Soft boos and murmurs in the audience could be heard.

20th Century Women producer Megan Ellison, upon receiving the Visionary award, told the crowd, "The scariest thing we can do now, or ever, is to shut up."

This article originally appeared on THR.com.