A List of Everything Taylor Swift Has Destroyed in Music Videos
A List of Everything Taylor Swift Has Destroyed in Music Videos
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance A List of Everything Taylor Swift Has Destroyed in Music Videos  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS                               Sheet cake  Devouring  8 There’s a lot of cake to be eaten when Taylor has a mega-hangout with her fellow 22-year-olds, and she makes a pretty good dent with the fork.                A rare Shelby AC Cobra  The force of a golf club and a vengeful woman  10  The vintage ride suffers irreparable damage when Swift attacks it with a golf club, her boyfriend looking on in agony. A heart-shaped, jelly-filled cake  Butcher knife  3  Blood-like jelly squirts from the cake’s wound as Taylor punctures it with passionate violence. A poor tree  An ax  9  Mother Nature feels Swift’s wrath during her rampage against her (maybe) disloyal partner. In the spot where she had once etched her guy’s name, she pounds an ax into the tree’s trunk. An unsecured wall  Taylor Swift  10  The “Bad Blood” badass busts through the drywall while training for her next face-off with Selena Gomez, punching it into chunks with one blow. An entire city?  Fire and gas, probably  100  On her way to tell Selena what’s good, Taylor and her crew of famous celebrities-turned-combat artists blow up a city, leaving clouds of fire and ash behind them and never looking back. Hope it was worth it.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Courtesy Photo

Everything Taylor Swift Has Destroyed in Music Videos

Taylor Swift: Singer, songwriter, businesswoman… master of destruction?

In Swift’s latest video, for “I Don’t Wanna Live Forever” with Zayn, she’s smashing mirrors and wrecking hotel rooms, fueled by the torture of love. The visual for the duet, a cut from the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack, has Swift and Zayn at a standoff after a fight, taking out their frustrations on the furniture and champagne bottles around them. In short, the video’s all about how fame, parties and lavish living can never fulfill someone more than love can. So why not destroy it all?

But this isn’t the first time we’ve seen Swift lash out in music videos. When the singer isn’t demolishing the pop charts, she’s taking aim at props in her vids -- and, man, does it make for juicy viewing. Let’s take a look at all the times Swift has added an extra slice of drama to the scene by smashing something to bits.