SLB Issues An Official Statement, Swami Om Reaches Bigg Boss Finale Venue & More From Ent
SLB Issues An Official Statement, Swami Om Reaches Bigg Boss Finale Venue & More From Ent
SLB Issues An Official Statement, Swami Om Reaches Bigg Boss Finale Venue & More From Ent 1. Post-Assault, SLB Calls Out The Incident, Refutes Rumours Of 'Objectionable Scenes' In Padmavati The National award-winning director was attacked in the ‘Pink City’ by the members of a Rajput community group a couple of days back. What’s more, they even vandalized the sets at Jaigarh Fort alleging that the makers are ‘distorting facts’ in the movie which is based on Alauddin Khilji’s obsession with Rani Padamvati. This shocking incident drove the makers to immediately halt the shoot. A statement issued by the makers read, "Sanjay Leela Bhansali has shot two films in Jaipur and despite his love for Rajasthan, for the safety of his crew, we have decided to stop the shoot and leave the city post the shocking incident where miscreants damaged property and misbehaved with the crew on the shoot of 'Padmavati'". 2. Hollywood Celebrities & Others Outrage Over President Donald Trump's 'Shameful' Immigration Ban This decision has left the entire world in a fix including Hollywood. Celebrities and many other people took to Twitter to protest against the executive order and in no time #MuslimBan started trending. 3. Whoa! Manu Punjabi Walks Out Of The Bigg Boss 10 Race, Takes Home Rs 10 Lacs! Every year the finalists are offered an option to quit the show and take home a certain amount of cash prize. According to a report by Bollywood Life, this year too, Bigg Boss offered the four contestants Rs 10 Lakhs and the contestant who gave in was none other than Manu Punjabi. 4. Karan Johar Owned A Twitter Troll Who Asked Anurag Kashyap To 'Stop Sleeping' With Him! Karan Johar and Anurag Kashyap are some of the many people who took to Twitter to strongly condemn the whole incident. Like we all know, it’s a two-way street. The duo obviously got attacked by various online trolls. Someone actually tweeted and asked Kashyap to stop sleeping with KJo. Karan didn’t take it too well and he retaliated with a mean tweet. 5. Swami Om Reaches Bigg Boss Grand Finale Venue, Gets Detained By Police Until The Event Is Over! He had full intentions to ruin the event but thankfully the makers were prepared well in advance. This piece of news broke on the internet. However, the channel has refused to comment on the same and is apparently clueless about the self-proclaimed godman’s whereabouts.

1. Post-Assault, SLB Calls Out The Incident, Refutes Rumours Of 'Objectionable Scenes' In Padmavati

The National award-winning director was attacked in the ‘Pink City’ by the members of a Rajput community group a couple of days back. What’s more, they even vandalized the sets at Jaigarh Fort alleging that the makers are ‘distorting facts’ in the movie which is based on Alauddin Khilji’s obsession with Rani Padamvati.

This shocking incident drove the makers to immediately halt the shoot. A statement issued by the makers read,

"Sanjay Leela Bhansali has shot two films in Jaipur and despite his love for Rajasthan, for the safety of his crew, we have decided to stop the shoot and leave the city post the shocking incident where miscreants damaged property and misbehaved with the crew on the shoot of 'Padmavati'".

2. Hollywood Celebrities & Others Outrage Over President Donald Trump's 'Shameful' Immigration Ban

This decision has left the entire world in a fix including Hollywood. Celebrities and many other people took to Twitter to protest against the executive order and in no time #MuslimBan started trending.

3. Whoa! Manu Punjabi Walks Out Of The Bigg Boss 10 Race, Takes Home Rs 10 Lacs!

colors

Every year the finalists are offered an option to quit the show and take home a certain amount of cash prize. According to a report by Bollywood Life, this year too, Bigg Boss offered the four contestants Rs 10 Lakhs and the contestant who gave in was none other than Manu Punjabi.

4. Karan Johar Owned A Twitter Troll Who Asked Anurag Kashyap To 'Stop Sleeping' With Him!

Karan Johar and Anurag Kashyap are some of the many people who took to Twitter to strongly condemn the whole incident. Like we all know, it’s a two-way street. The duo obviously got attacked by various online trolls. Someone actually tweeted and asked Kashyap to stop sleeping with KJo. Karan didn’t take it too well and he retaliated with a mean tweet.

5. Swami Om Reaches Bigg Boss Grand Finale Venue, Gets Detained By Police Until The Event Is Over!

He had full intentions to ruin the event but thankfully the makers were prepared well in advance. This piece of news broke on the internet. However, the channel has refused to comment on the same and is apparently clueless about the self-proclaimed godman’s whereabouts.