What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans: Part 3
What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans: Part 3
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock In the aftermath of the lawsuit filed last week against Navient, the largest student loan servicer in the country, many student loan borrowers have shared their student loan repayment experiences with . As a follow up to " What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans " and " What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans: Part 2, " here are 9 questions from student loan borrowers - as well as answers - that can help guide your path forward: Unfortunately, private student loans are not eligible for Teacher Loan Forgiveness . However, teachers with federal direct or Stafford Loans are eligible to have up to $5,000 forgiven and up to $17,500 forgiven for elementary and secondary special education teachers and secondary math and science teachers. Teacher Student Loan Forgiveness is for full-time teachers with five years of teaching experience in a designated elementary or secondary school or educational service agency that serves students from low income families. In 1972, Sallie Mae, or Today, Sallie Mae is a publicly traded company (not part of the federal government) that offers private student loans. These student loans are not federal loans, since federal loans can only be issued by the federal government. Prior to October 2014, Sallie Mae was a loan servicer for two federal student loan programs: the Direct Loan Program and the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). That same year, Sallie Mae split in two: the consumer banking business became known as Sallie Mae, and the student loan servicing operations became Navient. Yes. If you are unemployed, you can enroll in an income-driven repayment plan such as Income-Based Repayment (IBR), Pay As You Earn (PAYE) and Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE). Under these plans, if you have no income, your monthly student loan payment would be $0. While your monthly student loan payment would be $0, student loan interest would still accrue. Therefore, during the period in which you are enrolled in an income-driven repayment plan, you should expect your student loan balance to increase since you are not reducing your principal.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

In the aftermath of the lawsuit filed last week against Navient, the largest student loan servicer in the country, many student loan borrowers have shared their student loan repayment experiences with Forbes.

As a follow up to "What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans" and "What The Navient Lawsuit Means For Your Student Loans: Part 2," here are 9 questions from student loan borrowers - as well as answers - that can help guide your path forward:

1. I have a private student loan and I work as an educator. Can I qualify for teacher loan forgiveness?

Unfortunately, private student loans are not eligible for Teacher Loan Forgiveness. However, teachers with federal direct or Stafford Loans are eligible to have up to $5,000 forgiven and up to $17,500 forgiven for elementary and secondary special education teachers and secondary math and science teachers.

Teacher Student Loan Forgiveness is for full-time teachers with five years of teaching experience in a designated elementary or secondary school or educational service agency that serves students from low income families.

2. If I have a student loan from Sallie Mae, is it considered a government loan?

In 1972, Sallie Mae, or the Student Loan Marketing Association, was established as a government-sponsored enterprise, or GSE. Sallie Mae was then privatized in 2004 when Congress terminated Sallie Mae's federal charter.

Today, Sallie Mae is a publicly traded company (not part of the federal government) that offers private student loans. These student loans are not federal loans, since federal loans can only be issued by the federal government.

Prior to October 2014, Sallie Mae was a loan servicer for two federal student loan programs: the Direct Loan Program and the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). That same year, Sallie Mae split in two: the consumer banking business became known as Sallie Mae, and the student loan servicing operations became Navient.

3. If I am unemployed, can I enter an income-driven repayment plan?

Yes. If you are unemployed, you can enroll in an income-driven repayment plan such as Income-Based Repayment (IBR), Pay As You Earn (PAYE) and Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE). Under these plans, if you have no income, your monthly student loan payment would be $0.

While your monthly student loan payment would be $0, student loan interest would still accrue. Therefore, during the period in which you are enrolled in an income-driven repayment plan, you should expect your student loan balance to increase since you are not reducing your principal.