Video Shows Justin Bieber Getting Smashed Into the Glass at the NHL All-Star Celebrity Shootout
Video Shows Justin Bieber Getting Smashed Into the Glass at the NHL All-Star Celebrity Shootout
This weekend’s All-Star Celebrity Shootout​ saw Justin Bieber​ seems to show that AP snapped an amazing photo of Chris Pronger squashing Justin Bieber into the boards: pic.twitter.com/hhykeHh5Oh "This is one of the highlights of my life. For real." - @justinbieber  pic.twitter.com/rYGHl4kdJp Amazing. #NHLAllStar A photo posted by NHL (@nhl) on Jan 28, 2017 at 1:53pm PST

This weekend’s All-Star Celebrity Shootout​ saw saw Justin Bieber​ taking a bit of a shot from a professional hockey player during the game. Chris Pronger decided to get up close and personal with the pop superstar during his stint on the ice.

To Beiber’s credit, he looked like he was having a blast on the rink. When the 6’6” defenceman checked the platinum recording-artist into the boards, it looked like the check was all in good fun. A close-up of the scuffle seems to show that Pronger just decided to pick on Bieber a little bit for a laugh.

AP snapped an amazing photo of Chris Pronger squashing Justin Bieber into the boards: pic.twitter.com/hhykeHh5Oh — Charlie Roumeliotis (@CRoumeliotis) January 28, 2017

The 22-year-old said as much after the game when he called it one of the “highlights” of his life, which makes sense when you think about how much it must mean for a Canadian kid to ever take NHL ice. He ended up missing two penalty shots, but made up for it with a goal as time expired. Bieber later posed for a photo-op with Wayne Gretzky in the locker room:

"This is one of the highlights of my life. For real." - @justinbieber pic.twitter.com/rYGHl4kdJp — NHL (@NHL) January 28, 2017

Amazing. #NHLAllStar A photo posted by NHL (@nhl) on Jan 28, 2017 at 1:53pm PST

Hats off to the pop star for taking all of it in stride and finding a way to enjoy the moment. People love to bad mouth the guy and that likely won’t change, but moments like this show he's a good sport.