Lyft pledges $1 million ACLU donation in response to Trump's #MuslimBan
Lyft pledges $1 million ACLU donation in response to Trump's #MuslimBan
While the #DeleteUber hashtag continues to gather steam on social media, Lyft is taking on Donald Trump's Muslim ban directly — and probably picking up some new customers in the process. The ride-sharing company — and Uber competitor — addressed the political minefield in an email to customers, bearing the title "Defending Our Values." The joint statement from co-founders Logan Green and John Zimmer protests Trump's controversial executive order in strong terms. SEE ALSO: Lyft catches up to Uber, adds pre-tax commuter benefits "Banning people of a particular faith or creed, race or identity, sexuality or ethnicity from entering the U.S. is antithetical to both Lyft's and the nation's core values," the email reads. "We stand firmly against these actions, and will not be silent on issues that threaten the values of our community." The email also promises tangible action: over the next four years, Lyft will donate $1 million to the American Civil Liberties Union. "We know this directly impacts many of our community members, their families, and friends. We stand with you, and are donating $1,000,000 over the next four years to the ACLU to defend our constitution," the email continues. "We ask that you continue to be there for each other — and together, continue proving the power of community." Image:  Lyft Lyft's message stands in contrast to Uber's own response to Trump's newly signed immigration policy. While Uber has committed to financially compensating affected drivers for three months — out of a four-month ban — other actions have garnered criticism. In the same internal memo addressing driver compensation, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick also mentioned that he'd work to communicate grievances over the immigration ban in a Friday, Feb. 3 meeting at the Trump White House. Many view that as an overly friendly stance toward an administration that has been roundly criticized for its unconstitutional actions. Uber is also taking fire for its actions on Saturday, when protesters crowded into airports around the country in response to the immigration ban. Just a couple hours after the NY Taxi Workers Alliance called for a one-hour work stoppage at John F. Kennedy International Airport, Uber shut down surge pricing but continued to service the airport. This led critics to condemn the ride-sharing company's "strike-breaker" action, and brought about the birth of the #DeleteUber hashtag. BONUS: Uber driver surprises passengers with rescue puppies

While the #DeleteUber hashtag continues to gather steam on social media, Lyft is taking on Donald Trump's Muslim ban directly — and probably picking up some new customers in the process.

The ride-sharing company — and Uber competitor — addressed the political minefield in an email to customers, bearing the title "Defending Our Values." The joint statement from co-founders Logan Green and John Zimmer protests Trump's controversial executive order in strong terms.

"Banning people of a particular faith or creed, race or identity, sexuality or ethnicity from entering the U.S. is antithetical to both Lyft's and the nation's core values," the email reads. "We stand firmly against these actions, and will not be silent on issues that threaten the values of our community."

The email also promises tangible action: over the next four years, Lyft will donate $1 million to the American Civil Liberties Union.

"We know this directly impacts many of our community members, their families, and friends. We stand with you, and are donating $1,000,000 over the next four years to the ACLU to defend our constitution," the email continues.

"We ask that you continue to be there for each other — and together, continue proving the power of community."

Image: Lyft

Lyft's message stands in contrast to Uber's own response to Trump's newly signed immigration policy. While Uber has committed to financially compensating affected drivers for three months — out of a four-month ban — other actions have garnered criticism.

In the same internal memo addressing driver compensation, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick also mentioned that he'd work to communicate grievances over the immigration ban in a Friday, Feb. 3 meeting at the Trump White House. Many view that as an overly friendly stance toward an administration that has been roundly criticized for its unconstitutional actions.

Uber is also taking fire for its actions on Saturday, when protesters crowded into airports around the country in response to the immigration ban. Just a couple hours after the NY Taxi Workers Alliance called for a one-hour work stoppage at John F. Kennedy International Airport, Uber shut down surge pricing but continued to service the airport.

This led critics to condemn the ride-sharing company's "strike-breaker" action, and brought about the birth of the #DeleteUber hashtag.