Floyd Mayweather Gives More Details on Potential Conor McGregor PPV Fight
Floyd Mayweather Gives More Details on Potential Conor McGregor PPV Fight
Mayweather​ Floyd Mayweather, in a Showtime interview, says a fight with MMA’s Conor McGregor “can happen” and would want it at 147-150 pounds. Jonathan Snowden of has also reported that the 39-year-old is adamant that he would be on “the A-side” of the match and that it would be carried by Showtime Sports in the event that fans actually get to see this thing. Those comments come right on the heels of McGregor, in front of a live audience in Manchester, England, telling Ariel Helwani of MMA Fighting that he’s focused on Mayweather. “That fight is being more than explored--that fight has been in the works for a while now," he said . "It’s a fight the people want; it’s the fight I want. ...The next time I fight I will step through the ropes with … gloves on. I got my eyes on one thing, and that’s Floyd Mayweather.” Floyd is being very clear that he's the A-side and that the potential Conor McGregor fight will be broadcast by @SHOsports if it happens.

There doesn’t seem to be any foreseeable end for the speculation about the potential super-fight featuring retired boxing legend Floyd Mayweather Jr. and UFC superstar Conor McGregor. Anticipation for this bout has kept flowing right into 2017 and during a Showtime interview Saturday night, Mayweather continued to add fuel to the fire.

Mayweather​ reportedly said that a fight against McGregor “can happen.” The former champion also forecasted that the match would take place at somewhere between the 147-150 pound range.

Floyd Mayweather, in a Showtime interview, says a fight with MMA’s Conor McGregor “can happen” and would want it at 147-150 pounds. — Mike Cranston (@MikeCranston1) January 29, 2017

Jonathan Snowden of Bleacher Report has also reported that the 39-year-old is adamant that he would be on “the A-side” of the match and that it would be carried by Showtime Sports in the event that fans actually get to see this thing. Those comments come right on the heels of McGregor, in front of a live audience in Manchester, England, telling Ariel Helwani of MMA Fighting that he’s focused on Mayweather.

“That fight is being more than explored--that fight has been in the works for a while now," he said. "It’s a fight the people want; it’s the fight I want. ...The next time I fight I will step through the ropes with … gloves on. I got my eyes on one thing, and that’s Floyd Mayweather.”

All of this new speculation follows Dana White offering each fighter $25 million on top of pay-per-view splits when speaking with Colin Cowherd on Jan. 13. That figure is reported by ESPN to be a $10 million increase from Mayweather’s initial offer to McGregor, which was $15 million, plus the splits. But the UFC star told Helwani that he has more money on his mind. “If [the] Manny [Pacquiao] and Floyd [fight] did half a billion, this is a $1 billion fight. People gotta pay for it,” he said.

Floyd is being very clear that he's the A-side and that the potential Conor McGregor fight will be broadcast by @SHOsports if it happens. — Jonathan Snowden (@JESnowden) January 29, 2017

In 2017, it looks like resolution to this ongoing saga may be near resolution. There are some numbers to be discussed and figures to be hashed out, but it looks like both fighters want this fight. We might not have to wait too long to see these two settle this in the ring.