Internet points out irony of Trump screening 'Finding Dory' during #MuslimBan
Internet points out irony of Trump screening 'Finding Dory' during #MuslimBan
was snubbed when the Oscar nominations were announced on Tuesday. Now it's back in the news, this time because President Donald Trump is reportedly screening the movie at the White House for staff and family — right in the middle of the furor over what is effectively a ban on Muslim immigrants. SEE ALSO: Lyft pledges $1 million ACLU donation in response to Trump's #MuslimBan CBS White House correspondent Mark Knoller shared news of Trump's family movie screening, which will be shown in the White House Family Theater on Sunday afternoon. Indeed, in a presidential schedule shared with press, a movie screening is planned for 3 p.m. In between foreign leader phone calls today, Pres Trump hosting a movie screening in the Family Theater. WH aide says it's "Finding Dory." — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) January 29, 2017 Meanwhile, protesters are flooding airports across the country to object to Trump's immigration ban targeting all refugees — specifically those hoping to escape civil war in Syria — and citizens from Libya, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, all largely Muslim nations. Trump has business dealings in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Turkey, three majority-Muslim nations not included in the ban. That the White House selected to screen — the story of a character's attempt to reunite with her parents despite outside forces working against her — is an irony not lost on the internet. But sure, Trump family, enjoy your movie. And it's "Finding Dory." For real. This is happening. https://t.co/CnZtrN2sgy — Bronwen Dickey (@BronwenDickey) January 29, 2017 The nation is in turmoil over the Executive Order, and @POTUS  @realDonaldTrump will be watching @findingdory . https://t.co/snpcZJuU2k — Derry London ✈️ (@Derry_London) January 29, 2017 Bannon running amok while Trump watches Finding Dory pic.twitter.com/odwqyt5Tjp — Joshua Block (@JoshACLU) January 29, 2017 Finding Dory is the story of someone unlawfully detained while trying to visit her family. https://t.co/mKhqezd58a — Jason Sparks (@sparksjls) January 29, 2017 Trump is screening "Finding Dory" today: the story of a foreigner entering the U.S. without authorization to reunite with her parents #Irony  pic.twitter.com/FKU7ItiPod — Chris Lu (@ChrisLu44) January 29, 2017 Finding Dory is mostly about a family reuniting across a border that wouldn't be blocked by a wall — Jared Rizzi (@JaredRizzi) January 29, 2017 BONUS: Inauguration crowds are looking puny compared to Women's March crowds

Finding Dory was snubbed when the Oscar nominations were announced on Tuesday.

Now it's back in the news, this time because President Donald Trump is reportedly screening the movie at the White House for staff and family — right in the middle of the furor over what is effectively a ban on Muslim immigrants.

CBS White House correspondent Mark Knoller shared news of Trump's family movie screening, which will be shown in the White House Family Theater on Sunday afternoon. Indeed, in a presidential schedule shared with press, a movie screening is planned for 3 p.m.

In between foreign leader phone calls today, Pres Trump hosting a movie screening in the Family Theater. WH aide says it's "Finding Dory." — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) January 29, 2017

Meanwhile, protesters are flooding airports across the country to object to Trump's immigration ban targeting all refugees — specifically those hoping to escape civil war in Syria — and citizens from Libya, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, all largely Muslim nations.

Trump has business dealings in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Turkey, three majority-Muslim nations not included in the ban.

That the White House selected to screen Finding Dory — the story of a character's attempt to reunite with her parents despite outside forces working against her — is an irony not lost on the internet.

But sure, Trump family, enjoy your movie.

And it's "Finding Dory." For real. This is happening. https://t.co/CnZtrN2sgy — Bronwen Dickey (@BronwenDickey) January 29, 2017

The nation is in turmoil over the Executive Order, and @POTUS @realDonaldTrump will be watching @findingdory. https://t.co/snpcZJuU2k — Derry London ✈️ (@Derry_London) January 29, 2017

Bannon running amok while Trump watches Finding Dory pic.twitter.com/odwqyt5Tjp — Joshua Block (@JoshACLU) January 29, 2017

Finding Dory is the story of someone unlawfully detained while trying to visit her family. https://t.co/mKhqezd58a — Jason Sparks (@sparksjls) January 29, 2017

Trump is screening "Finding Dory" today: the story of a foreigner entering the U.S. without authorization to reunite with her parents #Irony pic.twitter.com/FKU7ItiPod — Chris Lu (@ChrisLu44) January 29, 2017

Finding Dory is mostly about a family reuniting across a border that wouldn't be blocked by a wall — Jared Rizzi (@JaredRizzi) January 29, 2017