Secret Service Agent on Leave After Saying She Wouldn't Take Bullet for Trump

Secret Service Agent on Leave After Saying She Wouldn't Take Bullet for Trump // // // // // // The Colorado Secret Service agent who allegedly posted on Facebook that she would be unwilling to "take a bullet" for President Trump was placed on paid leave, Abby Huntsman reported. Kerry O'Grady, the special agent-in-charge of the agency's Denver bureau, posted on the social media network last year that the New York Republican would be a "disaster" and that a 1939 law prohibiting political activism by certain government employees "be damned." As FoxNews.com reported : O’Grady reportedly posted on Facebook in October, "As a public servant for nearly 23 years, I struggle not to violate the Hatch Act,” O’Grady wrote. “So I keep quiet and skirt the median. To do otherwise can be a criminal offense for those in my position. Despite the fact that I am expected to take a bullet for both sides. But this world has changed and I have changed. And I would take jail time over a bullet or an endorsement for what I believe to be disaster to this country and the strong and amazing women and minorities who reside here. Hatch Act be damned. I am with Her." The Hatch Act, named for former Sen. Carl Hatch (D-N.M.), bars certain federal employees from engaging in political activity. The Washington Examiner reported that O'Grady also penned a post endorsing Hillary Clinton for president.

The Colorado Secret Service agent who allegedly posted on Facebook that she would be unwilling to "take a bullet" for President Trump was placed on paid leave, Abby Huntsman reported.

Kerry O'Grady, the special agent-in-charge of the agency's Denver bureau, posted on the social media network last year that the New York Republican would be a "disaster" and that a 1939 law prohibiting political activism by certain government employees "be damned."

Malkin: Mexico Has Been 'Put on Notice' by Trump

Gingrich Blasts the Media: 'These Aren't Reporters, These Are Propagandists!'

As FoxNews.com reported:

O’Grady reportedly posted on Facebook in October, "As a public servant for nearly 23 years, I struggle not to violate the Hatch Act,” O’Grady wrote. “So I keep quiet and skirt the median. To do otherwise can be a criminal offense for those in my position. Despite the fact that I am expected to take a bullet for both sides. But this world has changed and I have changed. And I would take jail time over a bullet or an endorsement for what I believe to be disaster to this country and the strong and amazing women and minorities who reside here. Hatch Act be damned. I am with Her."

The Hatch Act, named for former Sen. Carl Hatch (D-N.M.), bars certain federal employees from engaging in political activity.

The Washington Examiner reported that O'Grady also penned a post endorsing Hillary Clinton for president.

'Angel Mom' 'Infuriated & Appalled' by Boston Mayor's Sanctuary City Policy

Krauthammer: Trump Shouldn't Lift Russia Sanctions Until They Act 'Responsibly & Humanely'