President Trump's Economic Scorecard: The Starting Line
President Trump's Economic Scorecard: The Starting Line
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Chuck Jones       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. To start with, it tracks the changes in economic and financial market measures from Election Day through Inauguration Day. As Trump takes office, we’ll update these graphics, and a related, publicly-available Google document will track more than 100 indicators to help evaluate the progress and potential of “Make America Great Again.” The so-called “Trump Bump” has the Dow 30 up 8% since Election Day on November 8, but the rally has stalled since mid-December. Is this a classic case of buy the rumor (being elected) and sell the news (inauguration)? The S&P 500 is up sharply since the election, and close to record highs. Stocks are trading at rich earnings multiples though, so companies must walk a fine line while preparing for the potential positives (tax reform) and perils (trade wars) of the Trump Administration. The past eight years have seen the Fed keep rates at historic lows but the outlook is for three rate hikes in 2017. The siren song of higher interest rates may also dampen gains in the stock market that have been helped by a 34-year decline in rates.  Trump’s boasts about bringing jobs back to America comes with unemployment at its lowest level in over a decade. Further improvement may require better worker education and new skills training, rather than companies keeping a few thousand jobs from going overseas at a time.  President Trump has been touting a plan to rev U.S. GDP growth to a sustained 4%. The last time it hit that level over four quarters was in mid-2004. For the past six years, it has ranged from 1% to 3.3% on a trailing 12 months basis. The trade deficit has hovered just under $500 billion for the past three years, but Trump’s tough talk about border controls and tariffs has many fearing a trade war. If the deficit drops because the U.S. isolates itself from the world, expect unintended consequences. President Obama took office amid the biggest housing bust in U.S. history, but prices bottomed and have climbed back to record highs in many cities. The Case-Shiller National Home Price Index is 38% above its 2012 low.  Homeowners refinancing and new home buyers have been spoiled during much of the Obama administration, at least those that could come up with a down payment. A meaningful increase in mortgage rates from historic lows could slow housing activity, a crucial element in U.S. growth.  OPEC’s production cuts introduced some upward pressure, but if Trump cuts regulatory restrictions further growth in U.S. energy production could keep prices within a reasonable upper limit.  Trump may be able to get some companies to keep or bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S. but to stay competitive, plant sites will be heavily automated. The return of large numbers of high paying manufacturing jobs is probably not in the cards.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

President-elect Donald Trump has made a number of campaign promises including GDP growth, lower taxes and tariffs on China and Mexico. To track his progress on those promises, and their impact on Americans, we’ve created the “President Trump's Economic Scorecard.”

To start with, it tracks the changes in economic and financial market measures from Election Day through Inauguration Day. As Trump takes office, we’ll update these graphics, and a related, publicly-available Google document will track more than 100 indicators to help evaluate the progress and potential of “Make America Great Again.”

The Dow Jones industrial average: seeking 20,000

The so-called “Trump Bump” has the Dow 30 up 8% since Election Day on November 8, but the rally has stalled since mid-December. Is this a classic case of buy the rumor (being elected) and sell the news (inauguration)?

S&P 500 near all-time highs

The S&P 500 is up sharply since the election, and close to record highs. Stocks are trading at rich earnings multiples though, so companies must walk a fine line while preparing for the potential positives (tax reform) and perils (trade wars) of the Trump Administration.

10-year Treasury rate poised to move higher

The past eight years have seen the Fed keep rates at historic lows but the outlook is for three rate hikes in 2017. The siren song of higher interest rates may also dampen gains in the stock market that have been helped by a 34-year decline in rates.

Job growth has been slowing

In Obama’s first year the job market lost over 5 million jobs. The tide finally turned in October 2010 and over his tenure more than 10 million jobs were added. The pace has slowed as the economic recovery ages, but Trump takes office in the midst of 75 straight months of job growth.

Unemployment rate close to historic lows

Trump’s boasts about bringing jobs back to America comes with unemployment at its lowest level in over a decade. Further improvement may require better worker education and new skills training, rather than companies keeping a few thousand jobs from going overseas at a time.

Can Trump deliver on his GDP promise?

President Trump has been touting a plan to rev U.S. GDP growth to a sustained 4%. The last time it hit that level over four quarters was in mid-2004. For the past six years, it has ranged from 1% to 3.3% on a trailing 12 months basis.

The trade deficit has been “stable” for three years

The trade deficit has hovered just under $500 billion for the past three years, but Trump’s tough talk about border controls and tariffs has many fearing a trade war. If the deficit drops because the U.S. isolates itself from the world, expect unintended consequences.

Home prices have rebounded

President Obama took office amid the biggest housing bust in U.S. history, but prices bottomed and have climbed back to record highs in many cities. The Case-Shiller National Home Price Index is 38% above its 2012 low.

Mortgage rates are poised to move up

Homeowners refinancing and new home buyers have been spoiled during much of the Obama administration, at least those that could come up with a down payment. A meaningful increase in mortgage rates from historic lows could slow housing activity, a crucial element in U.S. growth.

Oil prices could remain low

OPEC’s production cuts introduced some upward pressure, but if Trump cuts regulatory restrictions further growth in U.S. energy production could keep prices within a reasonable upper limit.

CPI hits Fed’s 2% goal

After running at 1% or less for most of the past two years the Consumer Price Index hit 2.1% in December. One unintended consequence if Trump implements tariffs is that prices could rise even further and lead to higher inflation.

Manufacturing jobs vs. automation

Trump may be able to get some companies to keep or bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S. but to stay competitive, plant sites will be heavily automated. The return of large numbers of high paying manufacturing jobs is probably not in the cards.

Design by Holly Warfield, Forbes Staff