Delta Operations Recovering; Trump Blames Airline for Delays
Delta Operations Returning to Normal After Systems Outage
Shares                 Delta Air Lines , recovering from a weekend technology outage, canceled more flights Monday but said that the issue has been resolved. The airline said Monday that 110 flights had been canceled and more could be scrubbed. That followed the cancellation of about 170 flights Sunday night. By late Monday afternoon, Delta had not offered an explanation for the cause of the outage. President Donald Trump blamed Delta for weekend problems at many airports, where large protests were held to oppose his executive order that temporarily banned travel to the U.S. by refugees and citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries. Federal judges blocked part of the order. Trump tweeted early Monday morning that only 109 people were detained for questioning under the order out of 325,000 coming to the U.S. "Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage,.....protesters and the tears" of Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., who criticized the travel restrictions, Trump tweeted. Delta officials declined to comment on the president's tweet. Just two weeks ago, Delta CEO Ed Bastian praised Trump, saying that he was "very excited" about the possibility that the new administration might upgrade airport facilities, reduce taxes and cut regulations. Bastian also expressed hope that Trump might give a new airing to complaints by Delta, American Airlines and United Airlines that Middle Eastern competitors receive unfair subsidies from their governments. On Sunday, Delta asked the Federal Aviation Administration to hold up its departures at six major airports including Atlanta, Kennedy and LaGuardia in New York, and Los Angeles International, for several hours. Bastian apologized on the company's website to customers affected by the "frustrating situation." Delta apologized on Twitter that some delays and cancellations were not showing up on its own systems including its website and mobile app. Delta offered to let passengers booked on flights Monday to delay travel plans for a few days without incurring the usual fee — $200 for domestic flights — for changing a ticket. In August, Delta suffered a computer breakdown after a power outage in its operations center. The airline canceled more than 2,000 flights over three days and said the outage cost it $100 million. Shares of Delta Air Lines Inc. fell $2.03, or 4.1 percent, to close at $47.67. Most U.S. airline stocks fell more sharply than the broader market. None of the major U.S. airlines fly to the countries covered by Trump's order, but they have foreign partners who do. Jim Corridore, an analyst for CFRA Research, said the travel ban wasn't likely to have much effect on demand because of the light amount of traffic between the U.S. and those countries — Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen. But he said it could hurt Boeing Co. by raising the possibility that Iran and Iraq could retaliate by canceling multibillion-dollar jet orders. ——— Josh Boak reported from Washington. David Koenig can be reached at http://twitter.com/airlinewriter  Shares                  Delta Operations Returning to Normal After Systems Outage   Formerly Conjoined Twins Get Send-Off at Hospital Where They Were Separated   CDC Issues New Vaccine Guidelines for Adults   Facebook Post Helps Toddler Get Kidney From Parents' Former HS Classmate   In Chicago, Witnesses to Violence Turn to First Aid to Save Lives   6-Year-Old Girls Link Intelligence to Men Over Women, Study Says   Avian Flu Outbreaks Raise Concerns About Possible Pandemic   Seoul Virus Spread by Pet Rats Under Investigation in Multiple States   Teacher Aide Accused of Faking Cancer to Hide Criminal Past   More Chronically Ill Patients Have Health Insurance After ACA, Study Finds   11-Year-Old Boy Is One of the Youngest to Get Artificial Heart   Tom Price's Last Known Plan to Replace 'Obamacare'   Large Smoke Plume Seen After 2-Alarm Fire at NYC Hospital   Veteran With Double-Arm Transplant Shows Off Progress   Lawsuit Filed to Stop Texas Rule Requiring Burial for Fetal Tissue   Hearing Underway on Challenge to Trump's Controversial Immigration Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump

Delta Air Lines, recovering from a weekend technology outage, canceled more flights Monday but said that the issue has been resolved.

The airline said Monday that 110 flights had been canceled and more could be scrubbed. That followed the cancellation of about 170 flights Sunday night.

By late Monday afternoon, Delta had not offered an explanation for the cause of the outage.

President Donald Trump blamed Delta for weekend problems at many airports, where large protests were held to oppose his executive order that temporarily banned travel to the U.S. by refugees and citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries. Federal judges blocked part of the order.

Trump tweeted early Monday morning that only 109 people were detained for questioning under the order out of 325,000 coming to the U.S.

"Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage,.....protesters and the tears" of Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., who criticized the travel restrictions, Trump tweeted.

Delta officials declined to comment on the president's tweet.

Just two weeks ago, Delta CEO Ed Bastian praised Trump, saying that he was "very excited" about the possibility that the new administration might upgrade airport facilities, reduce taxes and cut regulations.

Bastian also expressed hope that Trump might give a new airing to complaints by Delta, American Airlines and United Airlines that Middle Eastern competitors receive unfair subsidies from their governments.

On Sunday, Delta asked the Federal Aviation Administration to hold up its departures at six major airports including Atlanta, Kennedy and LaGuardia in New York, and Los Angeles International, for several hours.

Bastian apologized on the company's website to customers affected by the "frustrating situation." Delta apologized on Twitter that some delays and cancellations were not showing up on its own systems including its website and mobile app.

Delta offered to let passengers booked on flights Monday to delay travel plans for a few days without incurring the usual fee — $200 for domestic flights — for changing a ticket.

In August, Delta suffered a computer breakdown after a power outage in its operations center. The airline canceled more than 2,000 flights over three days and said the outage cost it $100 million.

Shares of Delta Air Lines Inc. fell $2.03, or 4.1 percent, to close at $47.67. Most U.S. airline stocks fell more sharply than the broader market. None of the major U.S. airlines fly to the countries covered by Trump's order, but they have foreign partners who do.

Jim Corridore, an analyst for CFRA Research, said the travel ban wasn't likely to have much effect on demand because of the light amount of traffic between the U.S. and those countries — Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen. But he said it could hurt Boeing Co. by raising the possibility that Iran and Iraq could retaliate by canceling multibillion-dollar jet orders.

———

Josh Boak reported from Washington. David Koenig can be reached at http://twitter.com/airlinewriter