Study: Cancer Deaths Vary Depending On Where You Live, In Some Cases Dramatically
Study: Cancer Deaths Vary Depending On Where You Live, In Some Cases Dramatically
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  David DiSalvo       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Cancer mortality is widely variable depending on where you live in the United States, according to a study examining 35 years of data for 29 types of cancer. The research turned up differences ranging from notable to dramatic, with some counties experiencing death rates 20 times higher than average. The study analyzed data beginning in 1980 through 2014. During that period, cancer killed roughly 19.5 million Americans. While the overall cancer mortality rate declined by 20%, 160 counties throughout the country showed increases in all cancer death rates. A few examples: Counties in southern states (and the northernmost state) had the highest rates of lung cancer mortality: Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alaska. The likely link here is with higher rates of smoking in those counties compared to the national average, which continues to decline (Kentucky leads the pack with the highest lung cancer mortality in four counties, and has the highest smoking rate according to the CDC). Three counties in Colorado had the fewest lung cancer deaths. Counties in Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, Georgia, South Carolina and Virginia saw the highest death rates from prostate cancer (Alabama was front of the line with the most prostate cancer deaths in three counties). Counties in Colorado, Texas and Ohio had the fewest prostate cancer deaths. Kidney cancer killed more people in Oklahoma, the Dakotas, Texas, Alaska and certain counties along the Mississippi River. Liver cancer mortality was atypical in that it’s increasing overall, with the highest mortality rates in California, Oregon, Washington, New Mexico and Texas. The researchers note that it’s yet unclear if there’s a direct link here with alcohol consumption, since several other states have as high, or higher, alcohol use than those listed. Breast cancer deaths have declined overall, but a cluster of counties along the Mississippi River had significantly higher mortality than average, particularly in Mississippi and Louisiana. Conversely, three counties in Colorado had the lowest breast cancer mortality. While the causal A to B for many cancers remains unclear, the research team pointed to a combination of lifestyle factors—especially smoking, diet and obesity—along with differences in early detection and specialized treatment. And when it comes to cancer detection and treatment, it’s clear from this data that where you live, and what medical resources you can access, could make all the difference. "As the U.S. enters a new debate about access to health care, these findings on the wide differences in cancer mortality should inform the discussion," said researcher Laura Dwyer-Lindgren, a co-author of the study, in a press statement. "What's causing cancer to be so much more fatal in one part of the country than in other parts demands further investigation." The study was published in  .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Cancer mortality is widely variable depending on where you live in the United States, according to a study examining 35 years of data for 29 types of cancer. The research turned up differences ranging from notable to dramatic, with some counties experiencing death rates 20 times higher than average.

The study analyzed data beginning in 1980 through 2014. During that period, cancer killed roughly 19.5 million Americans. While the overall cancer mortality rate declined by 20%, 160 counties throughout the country showed increases in all cancer death rates.

A few examples:

Counties in southern states (and the northernmost state) had the highest rates of lung cancer mortality: Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alaska. The likely link here is with higher rates of smoking in those counties compared to the national average, which continues to decline (Kentucky leads the pack with the highest lung cancer mortality in four counties, and has the highest smoking rate according to the CDC). Three counties in Colorado had the fewest lung cancer deaths.

Counties in Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, Georgia, South Carolina and Virginia saw the highest death rates from prostate cancer (Alabama was front of the line with the most prostate cancer deaths in three counties). Counties in Colorado, Texas and Ohio had the fewest prostate cancer deaths.

Kidney cancer killed more people in Oklahoma, the Dakotas, Texas, Alaska and certain counties along the Mississippi River.

Liver cancer mortality was atypical in that it’s increasing overall, with the highest mortality rates in California, Oregon, Washington, New Mexico and Texas. The researchers note that it’s yet unclear if there’s a direct link here with alcohol consumption, since several other states have as high, or higher, alcohol use than those listed.

Breast cancer deaths have declined overall, but a cluster of counties along the Mississippi River had significantly higher mortality than average, particularly in Mississippi and Louisiana. Conversely, three counties in Colorado had the lowest breast cancer mortality.

While the causal A to B for many cancers remains unclear, the research team pointed to a combination of lifestyle factors—especially smoking, diet and obesity—along with differences in early detection and specialized treatment. And when it comes to cancer detection and treatment, it’s clear from this data that where you live, and what medical resources you can access, could make all the difference.

"As the U.S. enters a new debate about access to health care, these findings on the wide differences in cancer mortality should inform the discussion," said researcher Laura Dwyer-Lindgren, a co-author of the study, in a press statement. "What's causing cancer to be so much more fatal in one part of the country than in other parts demands further investigation."

The study was published in JAMA.

You can find David DiSalvo on Twitter, Facebook, Google Plus, and at his website, daviddisalvo.org.