Blacksmith puts on light display for Chinese New Year
Blacksmith puts on light display of lashing molten lava at a cold wall


To celebrate the Lunar New Year Chinese folk artists put on a sizzling display of splashing molten iron in the air captivating a large audience.

Performers threw the molten iron, that melts in temperatures above 1,600 degrees, onto the cold brick wall to create a breathtaking firework-like display to usher in the new year and to extend wishes for success.

The spectacle is a 500-year-old Chinese tradition locally referred to as Dashuhua (translated as throwing tree flowers), that can only be witnessed in the Yu county of central China's Hebei province.

Performers threw molten iron, that melts in temperatures above 1,600 degrees, onto the cold brick wall

Locals and people from cities across China were present at the showing in Zhangjiakou City on Friday.

One viewer said: 'We came to watch the Dashuhua performance on Chinese New Year's Eve. It is astonishing and brings out new perceptions for bettering our lives.'

Blacksmith and artist Wang De, 51, takes part in the tradition every year and in order to protect himself from the hot temperatures he wears thick sheepskin wool all over his body and a wide brimmed straw hat.

In order to protect himself from the hot temperatures the blacksmith wore a thick sheepskin wool all over his body and a wide brimmed straw hat

Locals and people from cities across China were present at the impressive showing in Zhangjiakou City

Performers bring a bucket load of molten iron for the blacksmith to chuck at the wall

He claims to have not been seriously hurt during the performances although admitted to swallow the odd molten spark which can burn temporarily.

Before the molten iron was ready to be displayed, various performances set the mood with lantern dancing, folk dancing and other traditional cultural performances.

Millions of people across China and the world welcomed the year of the rooster on Friday in numerous celebrations.

Before the molten iron display the audience , various performances set the mood with lantern dancing, folk dancing and other traditional cultural performances.