Canada Welcomes Refugees Yet Again, Provides Them Temporary Housing Permits Amid US Travel Ban
Canada Welcomes Refugees Yet Again, Provides Them Temporary Housing Permits Amid US Travel Ban
Canada Welcomes Refugees Yet Again, Provides Them Temporary Housing Permits Amid US Travel Ban All the people who have been stranded in Canada due to Donald Trump's Muslim ban will be given temporary residence permits so that they can stay in the country. The Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen said, "Let me assure those who may be stranded in Canada that I will use my authority as minister to provide them with temporary residency if needed as we have done in the past." The number of people to be affected by this decision remain unclear but Hussen said that as of Sunday afternoon, the Canadian officials had no idea about how many refugees were stranded in Canada due to the ban. Hussen also added that the Trump administration had assured Ottawa that Canadians holding dual nationality with the seven countries banned by Trump will not be affected by the order - that they will still be able to enter the US if they have a valid Canadian permanent residency card. #ACanadianIsACanadian  pic.twitter.com/6cqitwZJhE People, however, from the targeted nations who are passing through Canada will not be allowed entry to the US. Hussen said that there were over 35,000 Canadians with dual citizenship that had citizenship with one of the seven nations and Canada will continue to uphold its immigration policy that's founded in compassion while protecting its citizens. On Saturday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau welcomed immigrants to Canada and tweeted, To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada

All the people who have been stranded in Canada due to Donald Trump's Muslim ban will be given temporary residence permits so that they can stay in the country.

The Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen said, "Let me assure those who may be stranded in Canada that I will use my authority as minister to provide them with temporary residency if needed as we have done in the past."

Justin Trudeau/Twitter

The number of people to be affected by this decision remain unclear but Hussen said that as of Sunday afternoon, the Canadian officials had no idea about how many refugees were stranded in Canada due to the ban.

reuters

Hussen also added that the Trump administration had assured Ottawa that Canadians holding dual nationality with the seven countries banned by Trump will not be affected by the order - that they will still be able to enter the US if they have a valid Canadian permanent residency card.

People, however, from the targeted nations who are passing through Canada will not be allowed entry to the US.

Hussen said that there were over 35,000 Canadians with dual citizenship that had citizenship with one of the seven nations and Canada will continue to uphold its immigration policy that's founded in compassion while protecting its citizens.

On Saturday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau welcomed immigrants to Canada and tweeted,

To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) January 28, 2017

Canada has welcomed more than 39,670 Syrian refugees from the beginning of November 2015 till now.