The Best And Worst College Towns In The U.S.
The Best And Worst College Towns In The U.S.
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. When choosing a college or university, it’s important to think beyond the institutions and look critically at the cities and towns they are in. Sure, the school could be great, but do you really want to live there for four years? What kinds of opportunities are there for work or having fun? WalletHub, a personal finance and credit report company, annually ranks the best college and university towns in the country based on criteria like social environment, academic and economic opportunities, and “WalletFitness,” which is a proprietary analysis of cost of living. We took the 10 best and the worst-ranked college towns , according to WalletHub’s list of 415, and folded them into an easy-to-read slideshow, which you can view below. The Best And Worst College Towns In The U.S. In compiling its ranking, WalletHub’s methodology allocates a total of 50 points for the academic and economic opportunity category, 25 points for social environment and another 25 for WalletFitness. For more details on the way the ranking is broken down, visit the company’s methodology page here . Among the best college towns, according to the ranking, is West Lafayette, Indiana. The area is home to Purdue University and WalletHub gave the school an overall score of 65.25 out of 100, putting it in third place. West Lafayette ranked 10th in WalletFitness, 12th in Social Environment and fourth in Academic and Economic Opportunities. In second place, with 66.21 points, was East Lansing, Michigan, home to Michigan State University, Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Davenport University, and Lansing Community College. The city ranks 79th in WalletFitness, 22nd in Social Environment and eighth in Academic and Economic Opportunities. A recent study by WalletHub - a personal finance and credit score company - ranks the best and worst college towns in the United States. (image credit: Shutterstock) First place – the best college town – is Oxford, Ohio, with 71.11 points overall. Miami University calls the town home. The municipality ranked 10th in WalletFitness, 12th in Social Environment and fourth in Academic and Economic Opportunities. Separating the towns by size, the best large college town was Atlanta, followed by Austin and Pittsburg. Among medium-size cities, Gainesville, Florida; Cincinnati, Ohio and Buffalo, New York top the list. In the small city categories we find our top three overall Oxford, Ohio, followed by East Lansing and West Lafayette. But what of the bottom of the ranking—those schools that made the poorest showing among the hundreds on the list? The lowest position is held this year by Brookline, Massachusetts, which managed to score 26.6 points out of 100. Home to a handful of schools – including Newbury College, Pine Manor College and parts of Boston University and Boston College – to town ranked 387th in the WalletFitness category, 201st in the Social Environment category and 415th – dead last – in Academic and Economic Opportunities. Lucky for students that go to school there, Boston is just a hop, skip and a jump away. Keeping Brookline company at the bottom of the list is Kendall, Florida, and East Los Angeles, California—both poor-scoring college towns adjacent to major metropolitan cities, so their low-rankings should be taken with a grain of salt. : an earlier iteration of this post state that Western College for Women was located in Oxford, Ohio. That school became part of Miami University in 1974. (2/9/17; 13:45 EST)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

When choosing a college or university, it’s important to think beyond the institutions and look critically at the cities and towns they are in. Sure, the school could be great, but do you really want to live there for four years? What kinds of opportunities are there for work or having fun?

WalletHub, a personal finance and credit report company, annually ranks the best college and university towns in the country based on criteria like social environment, academic and economic opportunities, and “WalletFitness,” which is a proprietary analysis of cost of living.

We took the 10 best and the worst-ranked college towns , according to WalletHub’s list of 415, and folded them into an easy-to-read slideshow, which you can view below.

In compiling its ranking, WalletHub’s methodology allocates a total of 50 points for the academic and economic opportunity category, 25 points for social environment and another 25 for WalletFitness. For more details on the way the ranking is broken down, visit the company’s methodology page here.

Among the best college towns, according to the ranking, is West Lafayette, Indiana. The area is home to Purdue University and WalletHub gave the school an overall score of 65.25 out of 100, putting it in third place. West Lafayette ranked 10th in WalletFitness, 12th in Social Environment and fourth in Academic and Economic Opportunities.

In second place, with 66.21 points, was East Lansing, Michigan, home to Michigan State University, Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Davenport University, and Lansing Community College. The city ranks 79th in WalletFitness, 22nd in Social Environment and eighth in Academic and Economic Opportunities.

First place – the best college town – is Oxford, Ohio, with 71.11 points overall. Miami University calls the town home.* The municipality ranked 10th in WalletFitness, 12th in Social Environment and fourth in Academic and Economic Opportunities.

Separating the towns by size, the best large college town was Atlanta, followed by Austin and Pittsburg. Among medium-size cities, Gainesville, Florida; Cincinnati, Ohio and Buffalo, New York top the list. In the small city categories we find our top three overall Oxford, Ohio, followed by East Lansing and West Lafayette.

But what of the bottom of the ranking—those schools that made the poorest showing among the hundreds on the list? The lowest position is held this year by Brookline, Massachusetts, which managed to score 26.6 points out of 100. Home to a handful of schools – including Newbury College, Pine Manor College and parts of Boston University and Boston College – to town ranked 387th in the WalletFitness category, 201st in the Social Environment category and 415th – dead last – in Academic and Economic Opportunities. Lucky for students that go to school there, Boston is just a hop, skip and a jump away.

Keeping Brookline company at the bottom of the list is Kendall, Florida, and East Los Angeles, California—both poor-scoring college towns adjacent to major metropolitan cities, so their low-rankings should be taken with a grain of salt.

*correction: an earlier iteration of this post state that Western College for Women was located in Oxford, Ohio. That school became part of Miami University in 1974. (2/9/17; 13:45 EST)

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn