Yes, Virat Kohli Is The Skipper, But MS Dhoni Is Still Around To Guide Him As He Did Against England
Yes, Kohli Is The Skipper, But Dhoni Is Still Around To Guide Him As He Did Against England
Yes, Virat Kohli Is The Skipper, But MS Dhoni Is Still Around To Guide Him As He Did Against England Passing the baton is no easy task and picking up the mantle is even more difficult. So when r in limited overs, there were going to be chinks in an otherwise smooth transition. Dhoni may no longer be in charge, but he had promised that he would always be there to guide and give Kohli tips as and when the situation demanded. The Nagpur T20I was one such instance. After the 19th over by Ashish Nehra went for 16 runs, 8 were needed off the last ball. Dhoni took time to set the field as Bumrah marked his run-up to bowl the last over. Even Kohli was seen constantly speaking to Dhoni from the long-on boundary as the former skipper held centrestage. Clearly for that moment at least, Dhoni was in charge on the field. It proved to be a masterstroke as Bumrah Even when he took over, Kohli had always maintained that Dhoni will always be his captain. He added that he would welcome all suggestions from the veteran while the final decision would rest with him. These two go a long way back and even though the leadership has changed hands, the respect Kohli has for his former skipper has not diminished at all. One must remember that it was under Dhoni that Kohli made his international debut in 2008.

Passing the baton is no easy task and picking up the mantle is even more difficult.

AFP

So when Virat Kohli took over from MS Dhoni as skipper in limited overs, there were going to be chinks in an otherwise smooth transition.

Dhoni may no longer be in charge, but he had promised that he would always be there to guide and give Kohli tips as and when the situation demanded.

The Nagpur T20I was one such instance.

After the 19th over by Ashish Nehra went for 16 runs, 8 were needed off the last ball.

AFP

Dhoni took time to set the field as Bumrah marked his run-up to bowl the last over. Even Kohli was seen constantly speaking to Dhoni from the long-on boundary as the former skipper held centrestage.

Clearly for that moment at least, Dhoni was in charge on the field.

It proved to be a masterstroke as Bumrah gave away just 2 runs and took 2 wickets to help India win by 5 runs and level the series.

AFP

Even when he took over, Kohli had always maintained that Dhoni will always be his captain. He added that he would welcome all suggestions from the veteran while the final decision would rest with him.

These two go a long way back and even though the leadership has changed hands, the respect Kohli has for his former skipper has not diminished at all. One must remember that it was under Dhoni that Kohli made his international debut in 2008.