Rulings on Trump’s Immigration Order Are First Step on a Long Legal Path
Rulings on Trump’s Immigration Order Are First Step on a Long Legal Path
WASHINGTON — With what by legal standards was lightning speed, the judicial branch responded to President Trump’s immigration order on Saturday night, telling the president that he had moved too fast in barring people from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the United States. But the court orders, from judges in at least four cities, were just the initial steps in litigation that may last for years. The orders were provisional, aimed at maintaining the status quo. They were limited in scope, applying only to people on their way to the United States or already here. They did not rule on the larger question of whether Mr. Trump’s executive order was lawful. They were a signal that the federal judiciary stands ready to assess the limits of presidential power over immigration policy. But they gave only the most preliminary hints about whether the courts will strike down part or all of Mr. Trump’s executive order. Advertisement Still, leaders of civil liberties groups were savoring their victories in these early skirmishes. “The courts can serve as a bulwark against these excesses,” said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union , which represents the plaintiffs in one of the cases. “Litigation is going to be a key tool for either undoing these policies or slowing them down.” Advertisement In a statement issued early Sunday, the Department of Homeland Security said it would comply with the court orders. But the department added that little had changed. “The president’s executive orders remain in place — prohibited travel will remain prohibited, and the U.S. government retains its right to revoke visas at any time if required for national security or public safety,” the statement said. “No foreign national in a foreign land, without ties to the United States, has any unfettered right to demand entry into the United States or to demand immigration benefits in the United States.” The four cases — in Boston, Brooklyn, Seattle and Alexandria, Va. — will move forward in the coming weeks, with briefs and hearings over whether to make the bans on removing the travelers more permanent. At the same time, the Trump administration may appeal the orders to federal appellate courts. David Cole, the A.C.L.U.’s legal director, said the order from Judge Ann M. Donnelly of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn, which issued a nationwide injunction, was an important first step. “Making it stick will require both making sure that it’s being followed at borders around the country and upholding it on appeal,” he said. While the government has released some plaintiffs in the four cases, others are being held while the cases move forward. On Sunday, there were widespread reports that government officials at airports were not complying with aspects of the orders. That may have been a product of confusion and miscommunication, but some feared it was an early sign of a potential constitutional showdown. “The scariest scenario,” said Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University, “is one in which the Department of Homeland Security simply ignores the court orders. That would have been close to unimaginable in prior administrations. In this one, unfortunately, it would almost be unsurprising.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent a letter to federal officials Sunday demanding information about those held at John F. Kennedy International Airport after receiving what he called “alarming reports” that the federal government was planning to violate the court order. Advertisement In an interview, Mr. Schneiderman said that the executive order was unconstitutional and that he and other attorneys general were exploring the possibility of legal action. “There may be grounds for a claim that this does damage to a state, if they’re damaging our state institutions” like universities and hospitals, he said. The president has broad power to control immigration. A federal law allows him to “suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants” if he determines that their entry “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.” But another law appears to limit that power, saying that “no person shall receive any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence.” Saturday’s court orders, issued in haste, contained little reasoning. Judge Donnelly, in Brooklyn, wrote that there was a strong likelihood that the two plaintiffs in the case, who seek to represent a class of refugees, visa holders and others, could establish that their removal would violate the Constitution’s due process and equal protection guarantees. Based on that conclusion and the “irreparable injury” the plaintiffs would suffer, Judge Donnelly issued a temporary nationwide injunction barring their removal. She did not order their release. The order in Boston, from Judge Allison D. Burroughs of the Federal District Court there, was in one sense broader and in another narrower. It limited border screening practices to those in place before Mr. Trump’s executive order, and it barred not only removal but also detention. But it seemed to be limited to people arriving or held at Logan International Airport there. The order from Judge Leonie M. Brinkema of the Federal District Court in Alexandria applied only to legal permanent residents being held at Dulles International Airport. The order in Seattle, from Judge Thomas S. Zilly of the Federal District Court there, applied to two plaintiffs. It is possible that one of the four cases will definitively resolve an important aspect of the legality of Mr. Trump’s order. But the cases were filed very quickly, and civil rights litigators generally like to locate ideal plaintiffs and hone their legal theories before filing test cases that could turn into legal landmarks. Advertisement The Brooklyn case, for instance, did not make a claim based on the First Amendment’s prohibition of government establishment of religion, though some lawyers said that was the executive order’s central flaw. “The smoking gun they put in the executive order is the idea that they would grant exceptions for minority religions,” Mr. Romero said. Mr. Trump has said that was meant to favor Christians over Muslims. But opening such a challenge requires preparation, Mr. Cole said. “The one thing you can’t do under the establishment clause is denomination favoritism,” he said. “That’s a very promising claim, but it requires the right plaintiff.” A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2017, on Page A10 of the with the headline: Rulings Blocking Parts of Trump’s Order Are the First Step on a Long Legal Path.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Still, leaders of civil liberties groups were savoring their victories in these early skirmishes.

“The courts can serve as a bulwark against these excesses,” said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents the plaintiffs in one of the cases. “Litigation is going to be a key tool for either undoing these policies or slowing them down.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a statement issued early Sunday, the Department of Homeland Security said it would comply with the court orders. But the department added that little had changed.

“The president’s executive orders remain in place — prohibited travel will remain prohibited, and the U.S. government retains its right to revoke visas at any time if required for national security or public safety,” the statement said. “No foreign national in a foreign land, without ties to the United States, has any unfettered right to demand entry into the United States or to demand immigration benefits in the United States.”

The four cases — in Boston, Brooklyn, Seattle and Alexandria, Va. — will move forward in the coming weeks, with briefs and hearings over whether to make the bans on removing the travelers more permanent. At the same time, the Trump administration may appeal the orders to federal appellate courts.

David Cole, the A.C.L.U.’s legal director, said the order from Judge Ann M. Donnelly of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn, which issued a nationwide injunction, was an important first step.

“Making it stick will require both making sure that it’s being followed at borders around the country and upholding it on appeal,” he said.

While the government has released some plaintiffs in the four cases, others are being held while the cases move forward.

On Sunday, there were widespread reports that government officials at airports were not complying with aspects of the orders. That may have been a product of confusion and miscommunication, but some feared it was an early sign of a potential constitutional showdown.

“The scariest scenario,” said Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University, “is one in which the Department of Homeland Security simply ignores the court orders. That would have been close to unimaginable in prior administrations. In this one, unfortunately, it would almost be unsurprising.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent a letter to federal officials Sunday demanding information about those held at John F. Kennedy International Airport after receiving what he called “alarming reports” that the federal government was planning to violate the court order.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In an interview, Mr. Schneiderman said that the executive order was unconstitutional and that he and other attorneys general were exploring the possibility of legal action. “There may be grounds for a claim that this does damage to a state, if they’re damaging our state institutions” like universities and hospitals, he said.

The president has broad power to control immigration. A federal law allows him to “suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants” if he determines that their entry “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.”

But another law appears to limit that power, saying that “no person shall receive any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence.”

Saturday’s court orders, issued in haste, contained little reasoning. Judge Donnelly, in Brooklyn, wrote that there was a strong likelihood that the two plaintiffs in the case, who seek to represent a class of refugees, visa holders and others, could establish that their removal would violate the Constitution’s due process and equal protection guarantees.

Based on that conclusion and the “irreparable injury” the plaintiffs would suffer, Judge Donnelly issued a temporary nationwide injunction barring their removal. She did not order their release.

The order in Boston, from Judge Allison D. Burroughs of the Federal District Court there, was in one sense broader and in another narrower. It limited border screening practices to those in place before Mr. Trump’s executive order, and it barred not only removal but also detention. But it seemed to be limited to people arriving or held at Logan International Airport there.

The order from Judge Leonie M. Brinkema of the Federal District Court in Alexandria applied only to legal permanent residents being held at Dulles International Airport. The order in Seattle, from Judge Thomas S. Zilly of the Federal District Court there, applied to two plaintiffs.

It is possible that one of the four cases will definitively resolve an important aspect of the legality of Mr. Trump’s order. But the cases were filed very quickly, and civil rights litigators generally like to locate ideal plaintiffs and hone their legal theories before filing test cases that could turn into legal landmarks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Brooklyn case, for instance, did not make a claim based on the First Amendment’s prohibition of government establishment of religion, though some lawyers said that was the executive order’s central flaw.

“The smoking gun they put in the executive order is the idea that they would grant exceptions for minority religions,” Mr. Romero said. Mr. Trump has said that was meant to favor Christians over Muslims.

But opening such a challenge requires preparation, Mr. Cole said.

“The one thing you can’t do under the establishment clause is denomination favoritism,” he said. “That’s a very promising claim, but it requires the right plaintiff.”