Revealed: the woman who was allowed to vote seven years before it became legal because officials mistook her for a man
Revealed: the woman who was allowed to vote seven years before it became legal because officials mistook her for a man
he story of how one woman became one of the first ever to vote in Britain when she was mistaken for a man has emerged after more than 100 years. Frances Connelly made history in 1911 - seven years before women were enfranchised - after an error on the electoral register. She was accidentally sent a polling card to vote in a local by-election when it was assumed she was a man because of her first name. ocal reports describe how she attended a polling station at the Town Hall in Yeovil, Somerset to make her mark in the 1911 South Somerset by-election. Stunned by the sight of a female voter, the Conservative agent, Harold Fletcher fell into deep discussion with WT Snell, barrister of the Western Circuit. They, in turn, interviewed presiding officer, WW Henley, but he agreed he had no choice but to let her vote because her name was on the electoral register. However, the rules dictated she had to be the person on the register card and had not previously voted in the election - both criteria she met. rs Connelly put a cross against the name of Conservative Mr Aubrey Herbert - who narrowly beat Liberal Henry Vivian in the 1911 South Somerset by-election. A report from a local newspaper dated November 29, 1911 reads: "The election will be remembered for the first time in the history of the constituency a woman claimed and was allowed to exercise the Parliamentary franchise. "At the very moment a Suffragist's car was touring Yeovil displaying to an amused crowd the legend 'Mothers want votes', a lady was putting her cross against the name of Mr Aubrey Herbert - at least she is supposed to be on the Unionist side - at the Town Hall. "The point was carried, and Mrs Connelly voted. What is more her vote was recorded in the ordinary way - not upon a 'tendered' paper - and was counted with the others." In 1867, Lily Maxwell voted in a by-election in Manchester where regulations granted the right to all ratepayers, but overlooked the need to except women. Several more female property owners in Manchester followed suit, but the following year the loophole was plugged, and women's suffrage was declared illegal. Women first got the vote in 1918 - but only wealthy, land-owning women over the age of 30 to begin with. The rest had to wait until 1928 before full suffrage was introduced. Mrs Connelly, of Reckleford, Yeovil, died in 1917 at the age of 48 and did not live to see women get the vote.

Mrs Connelly put a cross against the name of Conservative Mr Aubrey Herbert - who narrowly beat Liberal Henry Vivian in the 1911 South Somerset by-election.

A report from a local newspaper dated November 29, 1911 reads: "The election will be remembered for the first time in the history of the constituency a woman claimed and was allowed to exercise the Parliamentary franchise.

"At the very moment a Suffragist's car was touring Yeovil displaying to an amused crowd the legend 'Mothers want votes', a lady was putting her cross against the name of Mr Aubrey Herbert - at least she is supposed to be on the Unionist side - at the Town Hall.

"The point was carried, and Mrs Connelly voted. What is more her vote was recorded in the ordinary way - not upon a 'tendered' paper - and was counted with the others."

In 1867, Lily Maxwell voted in a by-election in Manchester where regulations granted the right to all ratepayers, but overlooked the need to except women.

Several more female property owners in Manchester followed suit, but the following year the loophole was plugged, and women's suffrage was declared illegal.

Women first got the vote in 1918 - but only wealthy, land-owning women over the age of 30 to begin with. The rest had to wait until 1928 before full suffrage was introduced.

Mrs Connelly, of Reckleford, Yeovil, died in 1917 at the age of 48 and did not live to see women get the vote.