BJ the Chicago Kid, Brandy Clark, Gallant & More Attend Los Angeles Grammy Nominees Brunch
BJ the Chicago Kid, Brandy Clark, Gallant & More Attend Los Angeles Grammy Nominees Brunch
BJ the Chicago Kid, Brandy Clark, Gallant & More Attend Los Angeles Grammy Nominees Brunch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The 2017 Grammy Awards are right around the corner, and Saturday afternoon (Jan. 28) marked the beginning of the upcoming celebration of the new crop of creatives who have been honored. At Fig & Olive in West Hollywood, the Los Angeles chapter of the Recording Academy hosted its annual Grammy Nominees brunch, co-sponsored by Warner Bros. Records. Nominees in attendance included Brandy Clark , Gallant , BJ the Chicago Kid , Terrace Martin , Lalah Hathaway and Jason "Poo Bear" Boyd. Guests mingled in an informal setting while enjoying coffee, mimosas, and other refreshments, as well as a seated buffet brunch courtesy of the restaurant Just after 12:30 p.m., general remarks began with Kelley Purcell, executive director of the Los Angeles Chapter of the Recording Academy, who welcomed nominees and noted, "You're here today because your peers have recognized your artistic growth this year." Next, the Los Angeles chapter's president, John Burk, spoke on the greater good the Academy does beyond the Grammy Awards, saying, "It's about making life better for music makers year round," citing its MusiCares arm's feat of giving five million dollars to 7,000 creatives last year. (The organization provides resources to music makers in their time of need.)  Cameron Strang, chairman and CEO of Warner Bros. Records, closed off remarks by thanking the nominees for their contributions and their impact on the world on behalf of Warner Bros. "We'd like to say thank you to all of you for all of your courage, creativity, and for taking the chance, taking the risk everyday to do what you do. It's not easy. We appreciate it. It's your music that inspires all of us every day -- all of us to work hard. It inspires the country, inspires the children." At the conclusion of the event, guests left with a gift bag full of goodies, including a Misfit Ray fitness and sleep tracker, Toms sunglasses, and a MyIntent bracelet. Catch the 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, Feb.12 on CBS.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The 2017 Grammy Awards are right around the corner, and Saturday afternoon (Jan. 28) marked the beginning of the upcoming celebration of the new crop of creatives who have been honored. At Fig & Olive in West Hollywood, the Los Angeles chapter of the Recording Academy hosted its annual Grammy Nominees brunch, co-sponsored by Warner Bros. Records.

Nominees in attendance included Brandy Clark, Gallant, BJ the Chicago Kid, Terrace Martin, Lalah Hathaway and Jason "Poo Bear" Boyd. Guests mingled in an informal setting while enjoying coffee, mimosas, and other refreshments, as well as a seated buffet brunch courtesy of the restaurant

Just after 12:30 p.m., general remarks began with Kelley Purcell, executive director of the Los Angeles Chapter of the Recording Academy, who welcomed nominees and noted, "You're here today because your peers have recognized your artistic growth this year." Next, the Los Angeles chapter's president, John Burk, spoke on the greater good the Academy does beyond the Grammy Awards, saying, "It's about making life better for music makers year round," citing its MusiCares arm's feat of giving five million dollars to 7,000 creatives last year. (The organization provides resources to music makers in their time of need.)

Cameron Strang, chairman and CEO of Warner Bros. Records, closed off remarks by thanking the nominees for their contributions and their impact on the world on behalf of Warner Bros. "We'd like to say thank you to all of you for all of your courage, creativity, and for taking the chance, taking the risk everyday to do what you do. It's not easy. We appreciate it. It's your music that inspires all of us every day -- all of us to work hard. It inspires the country, inspires the children."

At the conclusion of the event, guests left with a gift bag full of goodies, including a Misfit Ray fitness and sleep tracker, Toms sunglasses, and a MyIntent bracelet.

Catch the 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, Feb.12 on CBS.