Tory MP Nusrat Ghani proposes Bill banning 'honour killing' term
Tory MP Nusrat Ghani proposes Bill banning 'honour killing' term
The term “honour killing” should be banned as it disguises the horror of the violence and puts police off investigating the abuse, an MP has said. Nusrat Ghani warned a culture of “political correctness” can make police officers wary of intervening fully in so-called honour cases for fear of offending the community. The Conservative MP for Wealden is proposing a Bill which will ban the term “honour killing” in official publications and strengthen the support given to women who are subjected to domestic violence and killed while abroad. She told the Press Association she has seen “too many women” not get the support they are entitled to because the violence meted out to them is explained, in part, through cultural difference. Read more Mother sentenced to death for burning daughter alive MPs urge police to investigate abroad 'honour killings' of Brits How Pakistan's law on honour killings can affect the UK Pakistan woman's eyes gouged out and feet cut off Pakistani man on why he murdered his sister in honour killing She said: “I have spoken to police officers who practice in the north of the country who said they have seen their fellow officers not deal with these cases as they would in other circumstances because the term brings in so much other baggage - that it just seems too complicated to deal with. “But it is just domestic violence.” She said the term honour “disguises the horror of the violence that is inflicted” and can be used by the perpetrator “as an excuse to intimidate the prosecutor”. Britain has made huge strides in tackling domestic abuse, including the criminalisation of coercive control and recognising rape within marriage as rape. But the continuing use of honour killing as a term risks hampering this good work, she warned. Ms Ghani said: “We have to make sure every victim is supported, and no political correctness or assumptions are made about a victim's background which means they cannot get equal support, respect and dignity when they come forward, and that they get the appropriate support. “And also, that the authorities feel empowered to do something about it.” The Crime (Aggravated Murder of and Violence against Women) Bill would also require British authorities to prosecute those who beat and murder British women abroad, help bring the women home, and pay for the repatriation of the bodies of those murdered. Ms Ghani said she fears that faced with a growing crackdown on domestic abuse in the UK, some men are moving abroad where they continue to abuse and even kill their spouses or female relatives. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    7 February 2017   A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London   Reuters     7 February 2017   Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice   Getty Images     2 February 2017   The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being  lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete   PA wire     1 February 2017   The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns   PA wire     31 January 2017   Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA     31 January 2017   Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     31 January 2017   Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     30 January 2017   Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images     30 January 2017   Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters  She said: “We don't want to see a trend of women who are being abused being taken overseas for that abuse to continue. “There are cases where that has happened. “These are British citizens and we need them to feel we are on their side, and we need the perpetrators to realise they won't get away with it.” The Bill will be presented in the House of Commons on Tuesday. More about: Conservative MPs Honour Killings Comments

The term “honour killing” should be banned as it disguises the horror of the violence and puts police off investigating the abuse, an MP has said.

Nusrat Ghani warned a culture of “political correctness” can make police officers wary of intervening fully in so-called honour cases for fear of offending the community.

The Conservative MP for Wealden is proposing a Bill which will ban the term “honour killing” in official publications and strengthen the support given to women who are subjected to domestic violence and killed while abroad.

She told the Press Association she has seen “too many women” not get the support they are entitled to because the violence meted out to them is explained, in part, through cultural difference.

She said: “I have spoken to police officers who practice in the north of the country who said they have seen their fellow officers not deal with these cases as they would in other circumstances because the term brings in so much other baggage - that it just seems too complicated to deal with.

“But it is just domestic violence.”

She said the term honour “disguises the horror of the violence that is inflicted” and can be used by the perpetrator “as an excuse to intimidate the prosecutor”.

Britain has made huge strides in tackling domestic abuse, including the criminalisation of coercive control and recognising rape within marriage as rape.

But the continuing use of honour killing as a term risks hampering this good work, she warned.

Ms Ghani said: “We have to make sure every victim is supported, and no political correctness or assumptions are made about a victim's background which means they cannot get equal support, respect and dignity when they come forward, and that they get the appropriate support.

“And also, that the authorities feel empowered to do something about it.”

The Crime (Aggravated Murder of and Violence against Women) Bill would also require British authorities to prosecute those who beat and murder British women abroad, help bring the women home, and pay for the repatriation of the bodies of those murdered.

Ms Ghani said she fears that faced with a growing crackdown on domestic abuse in the UK, some men are moving abroad where they continue to abuse and even kill their spouses or female relatives.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 7 February 2017 A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London Reuters

2/14 7 February 2017 Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice Getty Images

3/14 2 February 2017 The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete PA wire

4/14 1 February 2017 The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns PA wire

5/14 31 January 2017 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

6/14 31 January 2017 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

7/14 31 January 2017 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

8/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

9/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

10/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

12/14 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/14 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

14/14 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

She said: “We don't want to see a trend of women who are being abused being taken overseas for that abuse to continue.

“There are cases where that has happened.

“These are British citizens and we need them to feel we are on their side, and we need the perpetrators to realise they won't get away with it.”

The Bill will be presented in the House of Commons on Tuesday.

PA