The world's 20 best beaches (whatever holiday you're after)
The world's 20 best beaches (whatever holiday you're after)
The world's 20 greatest beaches A broad stretch of sand is the foundation for a great holiday – but which beach is right for you? Whether you’re a reveller or a recluse, travelling solo or en famille, there’s a shoreline that will suit your needs. But the perfect beach is rarely stumbled upon by chance; let our experts point you in the direction of the ideal spot for you to plant your umbrella this year... Whatever your image of the perfect beach or island escape is, you’d be hard pushed not to find it in the Seychelles . Sea, of the duck-egg blue variety, and powder-white sand are the mainstays of this Indian Ocean idyll, as is luxury. There are more one-island ( North Island , Denis Island , Fregate Island Private ), one-resort hideaways and 24-hour butlers in the archipelago than you can throw a magnum of Krug at. Turquoise Holidays ( turquoiseholidays.co.uk ) is currently offering a discounted seven-night trip to Constance Lemuria, which has access to three stunning beaches, from £1,735 per person, which includes b&b accommodation and international flights and transfers. Pictured here is on the island of La Digue. The best hotels in the Seychelles

A broad stretch of sand is the foundation for a great holiday – but which beach is right for you? Whether you’re a reveller or a recluse, travelling solo or en famille, there’s a shoreline that will suit your needs. But the perfect beach is rarely stumbled upon by chance; let our experts point you in the direction of the ideal spot for you to plant your umbrella this year...

Best for complete luxury: Seychelles

Whatever your image of the perfect beach or island escape is, you’d be hard pushed not to find it in the Seychelles. Sea, of the duck-egg blue variety, and powder-white sand are the mainstays of this Indian Ocean idyll, as is luxury. There are more one-island (North Island, Denis Island, Fregate Island Private), one-resort hideaways and 24-hour butlers in the archipelago than you can throw a magnum of Krug at.

Turquoise Holidays (turquoiseholidays.co.uk) is currently offering a discounted seven-night trip to Constance Lemuria, which has access to three stunning beaches, from £1,735 per person, which includes b&b accommodation and international flights and transfers.

Pictured here is Anse Source d'Argent on the island of La Digue.