Indian dwarf family where nine in 11 have Achondroplasia
Indian dwarf family where nine in 11 have Achondroplasia


An Indian family have spoken of how they are laughed at on the street as nine out of 11 relatives are dwarfs.

The Chauhan family, from Hyderabad, Telangana, are affected by the genetic condition Achondroplasia, which causes short limbed dwarfism.

They are the largest dwarf family in Hyderabad and are often taunted in the street when they are in public together.

Scroll down for video

Most of the Chauhan family, from Hyderabad, India, suffer from the genetic condition Achondroplasia, which causes short limbed dwarfism. Nine out of 11 family members are dwarves

Patriarch Ram Raj, 52, lives with ten of his family members in the Indian city. He said that life is particularly tough for the women in his family

The Chauhan family are the largest dwarf family in the city

Patriarch Ram Raj, 52, said: 'If we go out, people crowd around us and ask us strange questions like, 'Why are you so short?', 'Where are you from?'. Everyone teases us.'

Ram Raj works as a 'Marriage Welcomer', where he dresses up and welcomes guests to weddings, but finding employment has proved challenging for the family.

He said: 'No-one was willing to give me a job. I have faced a lot of problems because people look at me and say, 'How will you manage?'

Ram Raj works as a 'Marriage Welcomer' and dresses up to greet guests arriving at ceremonies. When he can't get work at weddings, he works in his family's grocers shop

Ram Raj had seven sisters and four brothers. Eight of them suffered from Achondroplasia and some have already died

'I work at my relative's grocery store when I don't have the wedding work to do.'

His 27-year-old daughter Ambika wants to be an accountant but as she also suffers from this condition, she has also found it difficult to find work.

She said: 'In the future I want to become an accountant but this will only be possible if I'm able to get a job.

'People tell me that because I'm short, that's why I'm unable to get a job.'

The other members of the family who are of short stature, including Ram Raj's brothers and sisters, also find it very difficult to get steady work.

He said: 'My younger brother works in a telephone booth and my elder brother's wife is a tailor. We manage this way.'

The Chauhan family are often taunted in the street when they are in public together

Ram Raj's brother works in a telephone booth and his elder brother's wife is a tailor. But the head of the family said he is unable to find a steady job because he is short

Ram Raj splits his time between wedding ceremonies and his brother's grocery shop. He said it is more difficult for the women in his family

Ram Raj believes life is particularly tough for the females in his family.

He said: 'It is still ok for the male members of the family. But what about the women in my family who have this condition? Life is much more difficult for them.'

Ram Raj once had a family of 21 people, 18 of whom were dwarfs.

Out of his seven sisters and four brothers, eight of his siblings suffered the same condition.

Ram Raj worries about his health as his legs have already started to weaken. He has seen this happen with his father and grandfather, who also had the condition

Anitha Bai and Sunitha Bai, Ram Raj's sisters, live with the rest of the family in the Old City in Hyderabad

A framed photograph of Ram Raj's sisters who have died, Saraspathi Bai and Chandadevi Bai

Some have already passed away, including his elder brother, Prithvi Raj.

Achondroplasia is the most common form of disproportionate dwarfism, and is characterized by a normal sized torso and short limbs.

The family also face health problems in later life as their shortened legs weaken.

Ram Raj said: 'After a certain age, the legs become weak. I have seen my grand father and my father face this, but they still managed to walk properly.

As they grow older, the family members affected will start to get weaker legs and may need help to walk

Ram Raj's wife, who was of normal height, died in 1993 when she was seven months pregnant with their third child

'But I have difficulty in walking and my younger brother can't walk without help. Same with two of my sisters.'

He said: 'It is still ok for the male members of the family. But what about the women in my family who have this condition? Life is much more difficult for them.'

Ram Raj's wife was of normal height but died in 1993 while she was seven months pregnant with their third child.

Niece Ranjitha Bai and sister Pushpa Bai pose for a photograph at the family home. Even though their life is more difficult, Ram Raj believes that God gave them their condition because they are special

Sister Sunitha Bai walks to the stove with a pan as she prepares a meal for the family. The stove is specially adjusted to suit their height

Ram Raj says that even though people laugh at them, and the condition makes it difficult to travel, get married and lead a regular life, the family believes God has given them this condition because they are special.

He said: 'My father once said that this is the dwarf incarnation of the Lord. People may laugh, but we shouldn't feel bad about it.'

Ram Raj said: 'My father once said that this is the dwarf incarnation of the Lord. People may laugh, but we shouldn't feel bad about it.' Pictured, Niece Vaishali Bai and Nephew Naveen Raj

'So many people have teased me and other members of the family. But if someone is sad and, by looking at us they get to laugh, it's God's will that we are the ones making them laugh.'

'I have two daughters,' says Ram Raj. 'I try and make them understand by saying that this is their duty.

'And you can make it work. God is with you.'