Obama Speaks Up, Praising Protests and Opposing Religious Test
Obama Speaks Up, Praising Protests and Opposing Religious Test
■ Former President Barack Obama, virtually silent since leaving office, spoke up on Monday, praising the surge of activism against his successor and opposing religious tests. ■ President Trump’s supporters have formed a political arm to support him — called “America First Policies.” ■ United Nations says 20,000 refugees have been frozen out by President Trump’s immigration executive order. Citizen Obama praises protests, slams religious test Former President Obama boarded Marine One after his successor’s swearing-in on Jan. 20 and seemed to disappear. Advertisement On Monday, he re-emerged, pleased with the activism that has blossomed since his departure and pretty displeased at the policies that elicited that response. Advertisement Kevin Lewis, a spokesman for the former president said: “President Obama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. In his final official speech as President, he spoke about the important role of citizen and how all Americans have a responsibility to be the guardians of our democracy — not just during an election but every day. Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake. With regard to comparisons to President Obama’s foreign policy decisions, as we’ve heard before, the president fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion.” Mr. Lewis also let it be known that Mr. Obama never, ever supported a ban on Muslim immigration. He helpfully sent out this quote from November of 2015, as Congress was moving to legislate a ban on Syrian refugees. “When I hear folks say that, well, maybe we should just admit the Christians but not the Muslims; when I hear political leaders suggesting that there would be a religious test for which a person who’s fleeing from a war-torn country is admitted, when some of those folks themselves come from families who benefited from protection when they were fleeing political persecution — that’s shameful. That’s not American. That’s not who we are. We don’t have religious tests to our compassion.” America First — again The United States got its second America First committee on Monday afternoon. The first was created in 1940 to keep the nation out of World War II, with its best-known associate being Charles Lindbergh, the aviator who was a vocal supporter of Nazi Germany. The latest one was created by Mr. Trump’s allies and former advisers, the America First Policies committee, an outside group that will support the president, pushing back on opposition to his stances and eventually running advertisements to support him. The group is being led by strategists Nick Ayers and Rick Gates, as well as Marty Obst and Brad Parscale, who led Mr. Trump’s digital efforts during the campaign. Two other strategists who worked with the Trump campaign, David Bossie and Katrina Pierson, will work with the group. “President Trump campaigned on a bold but basic concept: America First,” the statement from the group said. “This is a concept the American people both understand and support, but few in the media recognize and many politicians beholden to special interests will oppose,” the officials said. “We will provide the counterbalance.” The group appears to be officially sanctioned by the Trump apparatus, and came together after bitter debate among factions during the campaign. It is expected to be funded in part by the father-daughter donors Rebekah and Bob Mercer, two supporters of Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, and his counselor, Kellyanne Conway. The phrase “America First” was used by Mr. Trump after he won the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries. He used it again in his inauguration address. Mr. Trump has said he was familiar with the negative connotations of the phrase. But he has said it captured his approach to governing. Advertisement 20,000 refugees impacted by the ban, U.N. says The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said an estimated 20,000 refugees from all over the world would be impacted immediately by the executive order that freezes refugee resettlement for 120 days. Many more Syrian refugees are affected by the indefinite suspension of resettlement of Syrians. The statement pointed to a provision in international law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion or nationality. The executive order bars nationals of seven countries, including Syria. “The High Commissioner underlines once again” the organization’s “position that refugees should receive equal treatment for protection and assistance, and opportunities for resettlement, regardless of their religion, nationality or race,” the statement read. "Discrimination on nationality alone is forbidden under #humanrights law" - @UNHumanRights Chief #Zeid  pic.twitter.com/EpYpEpyYrf  It didn’t help that the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein , is a Jordanian — and Jordan’s king, Abdullah II, is in Washington. The refugee agency is mandated to protect the rights of refugees. It also relies on the United States for 40 percent of its funding. The agency said it was “alarmed at the impact” of the executive order. Those who are referred for resettlement, it said, “are the most vulnerable — such as people needing urgent medical assistance, survivors of torture, and women and girls at risk. The new homes provided by resettlement countries are lifesaving for people who have no other options.” United Nations officials in charge of preparing refugees for resettlement were told by the State Department on Sunday morning to plan on halting medical screenings, travel schedules and orientation sessions for all refugees in the pipeline for resettlement to the United States. The guidance went on to explain that nationals of seven prohibited countries would not be allowed to board planes for the United States. The backlash continues to grow Iran has banned visas for Americans. Iraq’s Parliament appears to be following suit. Career foreign service officers have drafted a stinging dissent , declaring, “We are better than this ban.” Advertisement French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, visiting the Iranian capital, Tehran, on Monday, declared, “It’s discrimination. We want an urgent clarification as soon as possible from the Americans.” “This has nothing to do with fighting terrorism.” And then there’s this: Just in: Israel seeking clarity on #TrumpTravelBan - 145,000 Jews born in 7 countries listed in EO incl 54,000 in Iraq & 45,000 in Iran Unintended consequences have a way of getting out of hand when policies are made a bit hastily. People are speaking out — through The New York Times The reaction to President Trump’s executive order on immigration was unusual by at least one standard — it attracted more comments than any article in nytimes.com history. Judge Blocks Trump Order on Refugees Amid Chaos and Outcry Worldwide received 10,363 comment submissions. Of those, 8,448 were approved by the journalists who moderate comments and posted on The Times’s site. The story, which was opened for reader submissions on Saturday morning, narrowly outpaced an October 2016 article about James Comey’s surprise letter to Congress announcing that emails from Hillary Clinton’s private server had been found on Anthony Weiner’s computer. The most popular comment about Mr. Trump’s executive order came from a reader called tbriggs27 in Longmont, Colo. , who wrote : “As a patriot and veteran I am sickened by this callous disregard for people who are critical to the safety of our men and women in combat. As an American I am sickened by the religious test. We can never have liberty and freedom when we deny it to others. This is unsustainable.” That comment attracted 324 comment replies and was recommended by 9,178 registered readers of The Times. A Supreme Court announcement on TV from the White House The Supreme Court — cosseted, cordial and militantly untelevised — is going prime time on live TV, with Mr. Trump announcing on Twitter that he will announce his pick to replace Justice Antonin Scalia at 8 p.m. on Tuesday. “I have made my decision on who I will nominate for The United States Supreme Court. It will be announced live on Tuesday at 8:00 P.M. (W.H.),” Mr. Trump wrote on his personal Twitter account at 8:43 a.m. — timed perfectly to catch the top-of-the-hour news roundups. Advertisement The president had originally planned to make the announcement on Thursday, but he had a rough weekend after protests over his executive order temporarily banning migrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries forced the Department of Homeland Security to decree that permanent residents would, for the most part, be exempted from the crackdown. Mr. Trump’s shortlist of three federal appeals judges, culled from media accounts and confirmed by people close to the process, is: Neil M. Gorsuch of Colorado, Thomas M. Hardiman of Pennsylvania and William H. Pryor of Alabama, who was originally favored to be the pick. I have made my decision on who I will nominate for The United States Supreme Court. It will be announced live on Tuesday at 8:00 P.M. (W.H.) The president has never shrunk from the theatrical aspects of his job. Some Iraqis May Avoid Immigration Ban Defense Secretary Jim Mattis plans to send the White House a list of Iraqi citizens who have served with American forces with the recommendation that they be exempt from President Trump’s temporary ban on visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries, administration officials said on Monday. The Pentagon list is intended to address a major criticism of Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration: that it will stop the flow of former Iraqi interpreters and cultural advisers who have sought special visas to move to the United States for their own protection. Some Iraqi military officials with family in the United States, who have also reportedly been affected by the decree, could also benefit from the Pentagon list, which will also be sent to Homeland Security. Mr. Mattis was not consulted by the White House during the preparation of the executive order on immigration, which temporarily blocks Iraqi citizens from entering the United States for 90 days. Six other predominantly Muslim countries are covered by the edict: Syria, Yemen, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Iran. The White House has argued that the temporary ban is needed so that the United States can develop procedures for the “extreme vetting” of travelers from nations that have been stricken by terrorism. Officials said that the Iraqis who will be put on the Pentagon list have already undergone a stringent form of vetting: serving with the United States military in combat. Schumer’s a ‘no’ on nominations, across the board Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, approached his new job as the anti-Harry Reid: Yes, he would fight President Trump where he needed to, but he made it clear he really wanted to find areas of cooperation. Advertisement That may not be happening. Driven by the executive order on immigration and by the vociferous demands of the increasingly activist Democratic base , Mr. Schumer announced on Monday that he would oppose President Trump’s nominees pretty much across the board: No on Betsy DeVos for education secretary, Rex Tillerson for secretary of state, Senator Jeff Sessions for attorney general, Representative Mick Mulvaney for budget director, Representative Tom Price for secretary of health and human services, Steven Mnuchin for treasury secretary, Scott Pruitt for E.P.A. chief and Andy Puzder for labor secretary. Cooperation, it seems, is over. “After the first week of the Trump presidency it’s clear our country is at a cross roads. In his first week in office the president has stomped over our proud American tradition of welcoming immigrants and refugees, trafficked in alternative facts, and is attempting to fill his cabinet with billionaires and bankers. What kind of country do we want to be: one that helps the middle class and those struggling to get there or one that further rigs the system in favor of the special interests?” It might not have helped that Mr. Trump mocked Mr. Schumer for his tearful denunciation of his immigration order. “I noticed Chuck Schumer yesterday with the fake tears,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Monday during a meeting with small-business leaders. “I’m going to ask him who was his acting coach, because I know him very well. I don’t see him as a crier.” Calm down, Trump says, few were detained Besieged by criticism, with chaos at international airports mounting and protests proliferating, Mr. Trump defended the aftermath of his executive order halting immigration from the seven countries, saying that problems at airports were the fault of a Delta Airline computer error. Only 109 people out of 325,000 were detained and held for questioning. Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage,..... protesters and the tears of Senator Schumer. Secretary Kelly said that all is going well with very few problems. MAKE AMERICA SAFE AGAIN! Delta  said it fixed its system problems after a few hours on Sunday night. The chaos lasted the whole weekend. Also, if there ever was a Mr. Nice Guy, he is no more. There is nothing nice about searching for terrorists before they can enter our country. This was a big part of my campaign. Study the world! And, the president said, he had to spring the order on the world — the element of surprise keeps the nation safe. Also, he seems to have acknowledged that it is a “ban,” a term the Trump administration has denounced as hyperbole. If the ban were announced with a one week notice, the "bad" would rush into our country during that week. A lot of bad "dudes" out there! That swipe at Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, was a reference to the senator choking up on Sunday as he recounted his family’s immigrant experience. Jewish Republican groups mildly peeved at White House The Republican Jewish Coalition and the Zionist Organization of America have tried really hard to stay on Mr. Trump’s good side. Advertisement During the campaign, when Trump supporters unloaded vicious anti-Semitic invectives on journalists, the Republican Jewish Coalition condemned expressions of hate by supporters of all candidates. The Zionist organization latched on to Mr. Trump’s America First program and backed his conservative, pro-settler pick to be ambassador to Israel , David M. Friedman. When the White House released a statement on Friday commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day without mentioning Jews, they were pretty quiet, even as the Anti-Defamation League condemned the omission . 1/2 @WhiteHouse statement on #HolocaustMemorialDay , misses that it was six million Jews who perished, not just 'innocent people' pic.twitter.com/OXiFqcPi4V  But on Sunday, after Hope Hicks, a White House spokeswoman, confirmed that the decision to not mention Jews in the statement was intentional, the two Jewish groups were upset, mildly. Ms. Hicks justified the decision by saying, “Despite what the media reports, we are an incredibly inclusive group and we took into account all of those who suffered.” The Republican Jewish Coalition, not exactly sputtering with rage, released a statement: “As supporters of President Trump, we know that he holds in his heart the memory of the six million victims of the Holocaust, and is committed not just to their memory, but ensuring it never happens again.” “The lack of a direct statement about the suffering of the Jewish people during the Holocaust was an unfortunate omission. History unambiguously shows the purpose of the Nazi’s final solution was the extermination of the Jews of Europe. We hope, going forward, he conveys those feelings when speaking about the Holocaust.” Morton A. Klein, the national president of the Zionist organization, was a little stronger: “Especially as a child of Holocaust survivors, I and Z.O.A. are compelled to express our chagrin and deep pain at President Trump, in his Holocaust Remembrance Day message, omitting any mention of anti-Semitism and the six million Jews who were targeted and murdered by the German Nazi regime and others.” Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, did not sound all that apologetic on NBC’s “Meet the Press”: “I mean, everyone’s suffering in the Holocaust, including obviously all of the Jewish people affected, and the miserable genocide that occurred is something that we consider to be extraordinarily sad and something that can never be forgotten,” he said. Oh, and he mentioned that some members of Mr. Trump’s family — alluding to Ivanka, his daughter, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law — are Jewish. Trump’s other objective: Call it ISIS Mr. Trump said during the campaign that he had a secret plan to fight the Islamic State. Eight days into his presidency, he seems to have revealed a small part of it. Call it ISIS . An executive memorandum that Mr. Trump signed in the Oval Office on Saturday afternoon repeatedly referred to the Islamic State as ISIS — not ISIL, as former President Barack Obama and the rest of the federal government called the terrorist group; and not Daesh, the Arabic acronym for the group, as British Prime Minister Theresa May called it while standing next to the president last week in the East Room of the White House. “This is the plan to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, in other words, ISIS,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the memorandum, which called on the Pentagon to devise a “comprehensive plan” within 30 days. Advertisement This is a big issue for the president. As he said in late 2015, before his campaign heated up: Wish Obama would say ISIS, like almost everyone else, rather than ISIL. In May 2016, Mr. Trump again brought up the issue, saying in an interview with Bloomberg Politics: “The president of the United States always says ‘ISIL.’ Everyone else says ‘ISIS.’ And I actually think he does it to bother people.” Rush Limbaugh accused Mr. Obama of using ISIL to delegitimize Israel — naturally. (Don’t ask, it doesn’t make sense.) In fact, the former president thought the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant was more delegitimizing than the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which denoted the territory the group holds. Well, elections have consequences. Republicans and the art of saying nothing Democratic lawmakers greeted Mr. Trump’s executive order barring visitors and immigrants from the seven Muslim countries with unmistakable broadsides. To my colleagues: don't ever again lecture me on American moral leadership if you chose to be silent today. pic.twitter.com/XW7sjmCcXh  As protests mounted and criticism grew, Republicans slowly began to speak out, but most of the coordinated response seemed to be, We like what the president is doing, and maybe he could have done things a little differently. Take Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, who once called the Obama administration the most corrupt presidency in history, until Mr. Issa nearly lost his seat and claimed he had cooperated with Mr. Obama. His district appears to be getting more ethnically diverse, but it still has affluent Republican strongholds that have helped him remain in power since 2003. The statement takes the Republican nonposition to an art form: “America is a nation of immigrants. Our country has been built by the hard work of those who’ve come here for liberty and to find hope in a land of opportunity. A welcoming America is not incompatible with a strong and secure America. We can put in place a vetting process that the American people have confidence in. To do so, the Congress must work with the administration to swiftly reestablish strong and clear screening procedures so that our rich tradition of immigration is not permanently threatened by those who wish us harm.” Democrats demand investigation into Homeland Security Richard J. Durbin and Tammy Duckworth, Illinois’ two Democratic senators, demanded an independent investigation by the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security into the way it carried out Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration. The call came amid reports that Customs and Border Protection repeatedly ignored judicial orders to release travelers from detention facilities at airports across the country. “We are particularly alarmed by allegations that C.B.P. officers and potentially other department personnel failed to comply with a temporary restraining order,” they wrote. “The United States Constitution means little if law enforcement agents disregard it, or if Americans are unwilling to defend its principles and respect foundational constitutional rights, from due process to equal protection under the law. The American people are relying on your independent investigators to serve as a check against a powerful law enforcement agency that may be violating the civil rights of LPRs and operating in violation of the law.” Advertisement Jordanian king will have breakfast with Pence Jordan’s king, Abdullah II, is scheduled to have breakfast on Monday with Vice President Mike Pence at the vice president’s residence a few miles from the White House. He would certainly like to get a little closer than that. Amid turmoil over Mr. Trump’s order to halt entries from seven predominantly Muslim countries, the king probably has issues he would like to bring up with the man signing the executive orders. But Mr. Trump does not appear keen to host Abdullah II at the White House, certainly not before Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, pays a visit. Jordan’s king will also be meeting with leaders on Capitol Hill. They are likely to get an earful. To criticize Trump, senators lean on a friend Maybe senators are so scared of Mr. Trump that they need a friend for support. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy First, on Sunday, Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, released a joint statement condemning Mr. Trump’s executive order blocking refugees, visitors and immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Of course, those two are practically their own political party — called McGraham by some, Jindsey by others. I'm calling John McCain & Lindsey Graham "Jindsey," as they deserve a combo name like every other celebrity couple. Then Senators Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, released their own buddy-gram, positing “unanswered questions and concerns” and some general “uneasy” feelings. Sens Marco Rubio & Tim Scott issue joint statement re Trump's immigration EO, have "unanswered" questions & concerns https://t.co/qU6taxg2yZ  pic.twitter.com/kvL5ZehZCv  Of course, teaming up hasn’t stopped the president from taking his shots, as he did to Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham. The joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong - they are sadly weak on immigration. The two... ...Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III. But maybe it doesn’t hurt as much when you have a friend. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

On Monday, he re-emerged, pleased with the activism that has blossomed since his departure and pretty displeased at the policies that elicited that response.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kevin Lewis, a spokesman for the former president said:

“President Obama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. In his final official speech as President, he spoke about the important role of citizen and how all Americans have a responsibility to be the guardians of our democracy — not just during an election but every day. Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake. With regard to comparisons to President Obama’s foreign policy decisions, as we’ve heard before, the president fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion.”

Mr. Lewis also let it be known that Mr. Obama never, ever supported a ban on Muslim immigration. He helpfully sent out this quote from November of 2015, as Congress was moving to legislate a ban on Syrian refugees.

“When I hear folks say that, well, maybe we should just admit the Christians but not the Muslims; when I hear political leaders suggesting that there would be a religious test for which a person who’s fleeing from a war-torn country is admitted, when some of those folks themselves come from families who benefited from protection when they were fleeing political persecution — that’s shameful. That’s not American. That’s not who we are. We don’t have religious tests to our compassion.”

America First — again

The United States got its second America First committee on Monday afternoon.

The first was created in 1940 to keep the nation out of World War II, with its best-known associate being Charles Lindbergh, the aviator who was a vocal supporter of Nazi Germany.

The latest one was created by Mr. Trump’s allies and former advisers, the America First Policies committee, an outside group that will support the president, pushing back on opposition to his stances and eventually running advertisements to support him.

The group is being led by strategists Nick Ayers and Rick Gates, as well as Marty Obst and Brad Parscale, who led Mr. Trump’s digital efforts during the campaign. Two other strategists who worked with the Trump campaign, David Bossie and Katrina Pierson, will work with the group.

“President Trump campaigned on a bold but basic concept: America First,” the statement from the group said.

“This is a concept the American people both understand and support, but few in the media recognize and many politicians beholden to special interests will oppose,” the officials said. “We will provide the counterbalance.”

The group appears to be officially sanctioned by the Trump apparatus, and came together after bitter debate among factions during the campaign. It is expected to be funded in part by the father-daughter donors Rebekah and Bob Mercer, two supporters of Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, and his counselor, Kellyanne Conway.

The phrase “America First” was used by Mr. Trump after he won the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries. He used it again in his inauguration address. Mr. Trump has said he was familiar with the negative connotations of the phrase. But he has said it captured his approach to governing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

20,000 refugees impacted by the ban, U.N. says

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said an estimated 20,000 refugees from all over the world would be impacted immediately by the executive order that freezes refugee resettlement for 120 days. Many more Syrian refugees are affected by the indefinite suspension of resettlement of Syrians.

The statement pointed to a provision in international law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion or nationality. The executive order bars nationals of seven countries, including Syria. “The High Commissioner underlines once again” the organization’s “position that refugees should receive equal treatment for protection and assistance, and opportunities for resettlement, regardless of their religion, nationality or race,” the statement read.

It didn’t help that the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, is a Jordanian — and Jordan’s king, Abdullah II, is in Washington.

The refugee agency is mandated to protect the rights of refugees. It also relies on the United States for 40 percent of its funding.

The agency said it was “alarmed at the impact” of the executive order.

Those who are referred for resettlement, it said, “are the most vulnerable — such as people needing urgent medical assistance, survivors of torture, and women and girls at risk. The new homes provided by resettlement countries are lifesaving for people who have no other options.”

United Nations officials in charge of preparing refugees for resettlement were told by the State Department on Sunday morning to plan on halting medical screenings, travel schedules and orientation sessions for all refugees in the pipeline for resettlement to the United States.

The guidance went on to explain that nationals of seven prohibited countries would not be allowed to board planes for the United States.

The backlash continues to grow

Iran has banned visas for Americans. Iraq’s Parliament appears to be following suit.

Career foreign service officers have drafted a stinging dissent, declaring, “We are better than this ban.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, visiting the Iranian capital, Tehran, on Monday, declared, “It’s discrimination. We want an urgent clarification as soon as possible from the Americans.”

“This has nothing to do with fighting terrorism.”

And then there’s this:

Unintended consequences have a way of getting out of hand when policies are made a bit hastily.

People are speaking out — through The New York Times

The reaction to President Trump’s executive order on immigration was unusual by at least one standard — it attracted more comments than any article in nytimes.com history.

Judge Blocks Trump Order on Refugees Amid Chaos and Outcry Worldwide received 10,363 comment submissions. Of those, 8,448 were approved by the journalists who moderate comments and posted on The Times’s site.

The story, which was opened for reader submissions on Saturday morning, narrowly outpaced an October 2016 article about James Comey’s surprise letter to Congress announcing that emails from Hillary Clinton’s private server had been found on Anthony Weiner’s computer.

The most popular comment about Mr. Trump’s executive order came from a reader called tbriggs27 in Longmont, Colo., who wrote:

“As a patriot and veteran I am sickened by this callous disregard for people who are critical to the safety of our men and women in combat. As an American I am sickened by the religious test. We can never have liberty and freedom when we deny it to others. This is unsustainable.”

That comment attracted 324 comment replies and was recommended by 9,178 registered readers of The Times.

A Supreme Court announcement on TV from the White House

The Supreme Court — cosseted, cordial and militantly untelevised — is going prime time on live TV, with Mr. Trump announcing on Twitter that he will announce his pick to replace Justice Antonin Scalia at 8 p.m. on Tuesday.

“I have made my decision on who I will nominate for The United States Supreme Court. It will be announced live on Tuesday at 8:00 P.M. (W.H.),” Mr. Trump wrote on his personal Twitter account at 8:43 a.m. — timed perfectly to catch the top-of-the-hour news roundups.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The president had originally planned to make the announcement on Thursday, but he had a rough weekend after protests over his executive order temporarily banning migrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries forced the Department of Homeland Security to decree that permanent residents would, for the most part, be exempted from the crackdown.

Mr. Trump’s shortlist of three federal appeals judges, culled from media accounts and confirmed by people close to the process, is: Neil M. Gorsuch of Colorado, Thomas M. Hardiman of Pennsylvania and William H. Pryor of Alabama, who was originally favored to be the pick.

The president has never shrunk from the theatrical aspects of his job.

Some Iraqis May Avoid Immigration Ban

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis plans to send the White House a list of Iraqi citizens who have served with American forces with the recommendation that they be exempt from President Trump’s temporary ban on visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries, administration officials said on Monday.

The Pentagon list is intended to address a major criticism of Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration: that it will stop the flow of former Iraqi interpreters and cultural advisers who have sought special visas to move to the United States for their own protection.

Some Iraqi military officials with family in the United States, who have also reportedly been affected by the decree, could also benefit from the Pentagon list, which will also be sent to Homeland Security.

Mr. Mattis was not consulted by the White House during the preparation of the executive order on immigration, which temporarily blocks Iraqi citizens from entering the United States for 90 days. Six other predominantly Muslim countries are covered by the edict: Syria, Yemen, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Iran.

The White House has argued that the temporary ban is needed so that the United States can develop procedures for the “extreme vetting” of travelers from nations that have been stricken by terrorism. Officials said that the Iraqis who will be put on the Pentagon list have already undergone a stringent form of vetting: serving with the United States military in combat.

Schumer’s a ‘no’ on nominations, across the board

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, approached his new job as the anti-Harry Reid: Yes, he would fight President Trump where he needed to, but he made it clear he really wanted to find areas of cooperation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That may not be happening.

Driven by the executive order on immigration and by the vociferous demands of the increasingly activist Democratic base, Mr. Schumer announced on Monday that he would oppose President Trump’s nominees pretty much across the board: No on Betsy DeVos for education secretary, Rex Tillerson for secretary of state, Senator Jeff Sessions for attorney general, Representative Mick Mulvaney for budget director, Representative Tom Price for secretary of health and human services, Steven Mnuchin for treasury secretary, Scott Pruitt for E.P.A. chief and Andy Puzder for labor secretary.

Cooperation, it seems, is over.

“After the first week of the Trump presidency it’s clear our country is at a cross roads. In his first week in office the president has stomped over our proud American tradition of welcoming immigrants and refugees, trafficked in alternative facts, and is attempting to fill his cabinet with billionaires and bankers. What kind of country do we want to be: one that helps the middle class and those struggling to get there or one that further rigs the system in favor of the special interests?”

It might not have helped that Mr. Trump mocked Mr. Schumer for his tearful denunciation of his immigration order.

“I noticed Chuck Schumer yesterday with the fake tears,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Monday during a meeting with small-business leaders. “I’m going to ask him who was his acting coach, because I know him very well. I don’t see him as a crier.”

Calm down, Trump says, few were detained

Besieged by criticism, with chaos at international airports mounting and protests proliferating, Mr. Trump defended the aftermath of his executive order halting immigration from the seven countries, saying that problems at airports were the fault of a Delta Airline computer error.

Delta said it fixed its system problems after a few hours on Sunday night. The chaos lasted the whole weekend.

Also, if there ever was a Mr. Nice Guy, he is no more.

And, the president said, he had to spring the order on the world — the element of surprise keeps the nation safe. Also, he seems to have acknowledged that it is a “ban,” a term the Trump administration has denounced as hyperbole.

That swipe at Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, was a reference to the senator choking up on Sunday as he recounted his family’s immigrant experience.

Jewish Republican groups mildly peeved at White House

The Republican Jewish Coalition and the Zionist Organization of America have tried really hard to stay on Mr. Trump’s good side.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the campaign, when Trump supporters unloaded vicious anti-Semitic invectives on journalists, the Republican Jewish Coalition condemned expressions of hate by supporters of all candidates. The Zionist organization latched on to Mr. Trump’s America First program and backed his conservative, pro-settler pick to be ambassador to Israel, David M. Friedman.

When the White House released a statement on Friday commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day without mentioning Jews, they were pretty quiet, even as the Anti-Defamation League condemned the omission.

But on Sunday, after Hope Hicks, a White House spokeswoman, confirmed that the decision to not mention Jews in the statement was intentional, the two Jewish groups were upset, mildly. Ms. Hicks justified the decision by saying, “Despite what the media reports, we are an incredibly inclusive group and we took into account all of those who suffered.”

The Republican Jewish Coalition, not exactly sputtering with rage, released a statement:

“As supporters of President Trump, we know that he holds in his heart the memory of the six million victims of the Holocaust, and is committed not just to their memory, but ensuring it never happens again.” “The lack of a direct statement about the suffering of the Jewish people during the Holocaust was an unfortunate omission. History unambiguously shows the purpose of the Nazi’s final solution was the extermination of the Jews of Europe. We hope, going forward, he conveys those feelings when speaking about the Holocaust.”

Morton A. Klein, the national president of the Zionist organization, was a little stronger:

“Especially as a child of Holocaust survivors, I and Z.O.A. are compelled to express our chagrin and deep pain at President Trump, in his Holocaust Remembrance Day message, omitting any mention of anti-Semitism and the six million Jews who were targeted and murdered by the German Nazi regime and others.”

Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, did not sound all that apologetic on NBC’s “Meet the Press”: “I mean, everyone’s suffering in the Holocaust, including obviously all of the Jewish people affected, and the miserable genocide that occurred is something that we consider to be extraordinarily sad and something that can never be forgotten,” he said.

Oh, and he mentioned that some members of Mr. Trump’s family — alluding to Ivanka, his daughter, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law — are Jewish.

Trump’s other objective: Call it ISIS

Mr. Trump said during the campaign that he had a secret plan to fight the Islamic State. Eight days into his presidency, he seems to have revealed a small part of it.

Call it ISIS.

An executive memorandum that Mr. Trump signed in the Oval Office on Saturday afternoon repeatedly referred to the Islamic State as ISIS — not ISIL, as former President Barack Obama and the rest of the federal government called the terrorist group; and not Daesh, the Arabic acronym for the group, as British Prime Minister Theresa May called it while standing next to the president last week in the East Room of the White House.

“This is the plan to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, in other words, ISIS,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the memorandum, which called on the Pentagon to devise a “comprehensive plan” within 30 days.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is a big issue for the president. As he said in late 2015, before his campaign heated up:

In May 2016, Mr. Trump again brought up the issue, saying in an interview with Bloomberg Politics: “The president of the United States always says ‘ISIL.’ Everyone else says ‘ISIS.’ And I actually think he does it to bother people.”

Rush Limbaugh accused Mr. Obama of using ISIL to delegitimize Israel — naturally. (Don’t ask, it doesn’t make sense.)

In fact, the former president thought the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant was more delegitimizing than the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which denoted the territory the group holds.

Well, elections have consequences.

Republicans and the art of saying nothing

Democratic lawmakers greeted Mr. Trump’s executive order barring visitors and immigrants from the seven Muslim countries with unmistakable broadsides.

As protests mounted and criticism grew, Republicans slowly began to speak out, but most of the coordinated response seemed to be, We like what the president is doing, and maybe he could have done things a little differently.

Take Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, who once called the Obama administration the most corrupt presidency in history, until Mr. Issa nearly lost his seat and claimed he had cooperated with Mr. Obama. His district appears to be getting more ethnically diverse, but it still has affluent Republican strongholds that have helped him remain in power since 2003. The statement takes the Republican nonposition to an art form:

“America is a nation of immigrants. Our country has been built by the hard work of those who’ve come here for liberty and to find hope in a land of opportunity. A welcoming America is not incompatible with a strong and secure America. We can put in place a vetting process that the American people have confidence in. To do so, the Congress must work with the administration to swiftly reestablish strong and clear screening procedures so that our rich tradition of immigration is not permanently threatened by those who wish us harm.”

Democrats demand investigation into Homeland Security

Richard J. Durbin and Tammy Duckworth, Illinois’ two Democratic senators, demanded an independent investigation by the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security into the way it carried out Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration.

The call came amid reports that Customs and Border Protection repeatedly ignored judicial orders to release travelers from detention facilities at airports across the country.

“We are particularly alarmed by allegations that C.B.P. officers and potentially other department personnel failed to comply with a temporary restraining order,” they wrote.

“The United States Constitution means little if law enforcement agents disregard it, or if Americans are unwilling to defend its principles and respect foundational constitutional rights, from due process to equal protection under the law. The American people are relying on your independent investigators to serve as a check against a powerful law enforcement agency that may be violating the civil rights of LPRs and operating in violation of the law.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jordanian king will have breakfast with Pence

Jordan’s king, Abdullah II, is scheduled to have breakfast on Monday with Vice President Mike Pence at the vice president’s residence a few miles from the White House. He would certainly like to get a little closer than that.

Amid turmoil over Mr. Trump’s order to halt entries from seven predominantly Muslim countries, the king probably has issues he would like to bring up with the man signing the executive orders. But Mr. Trump does not appear keen to host Abdullah II at the White House, certainly not before Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, pays a visit.

Jordan’s king will also be meeting with leaders on Capitol Hill. They are likely to get an earful.

To criticize Trump, senators lean on a friend

Maybe senators are so scared of Mr. Trump that they need a friend for support.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

First, on Sunday, Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, released a joint statement condemning Mr. Trump’s executive order blocking refugees, visitors and immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Of course, those two are practically their own political party — called McGraham by some, Jindsey by others.

Then Senators Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, released their own buddy-gram, positing “unanswered questions and concerns” and some general “uneasy” feelings.

Of course, teaming up hasn’t stopped the president from taking his shots, as he did to Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham.

But maybe it doesn’t hurt as much when you have a friend.