Lonely widower advertises for companion to go fishing with him
Lonely widower advertises for companion to go fishing with him
pensioner from Australia sparked an online campaign to find him a friend this week, after he posted a tear-jerking advert on Gumtree seeking someone to go fishing with him. Ray Johnstone, a widower from Lewiston in South Australia, wrote in the ad that he was looking for a fishing mate as his "previous fishing mate is now deceased." Appealing for a fishing enthusiast "in a similar position to myself," Ray wrote: "I am a land-based fisherman. I have all the gear for all types of fish that is required for land-based fishing. "I am willing to share all costs, e.g. petrol, bait, and should you happen to own a boat [am] willing to pay all ramp fees, but happy if you are also a land-based fisherman." He rounded off the ad with the suggestion that anyone interested could contact him to "arrange a meeting to see if we could get along with each other." A number of people, touched by Ray's advert, took to Twitter offering their help to find him a companion with the hashtag  #IllFishWithRay: Someone needs to take Ray fishing #Illfishwithray  https://t.co/VUyds9yyle If I was in Adelaide, Mate. I'll drop a line tonight, just for you though. #illfishwithray I hate fishing, but I would go every weekend and pack sandwiches and tea if I lived in Adelaide. Let's be friends. #illfishwithray #Illfishwithray I dont know fishing at all, but will learn it for you my frnd Meanwhile in Australia, everyone wants to be Ray's best friend. #illfishwithray fishing enthusiast from Sydney set up a fundraising campaign to raise A$1000 (£600) "get Ray flown over to Sydney to go fishing with mates for the weekend." Joe Forza, who runs the All Things Fishing Sydney Facebook page, wrote: "At the moment the cost is to cover his return flight from Adelaide to Sydney and back home, accommodation, food expenses and any costs associated to get him fishing. Anything left will go to Ray himself or a charity if he chooses as such." Ray was later contacted by Nine.com.au , who discovered that his bid had been successful: "I have found a fishing partner. Gumtree called me and said the ad went viral," he said. His daughter Pamela Joy Edwards posted a note on Facebook thanking everyone who'd offered her father support, and saying: "He has been so lonely since Mum passed away years ago, and four walls are not that exciting. "Even though he has us and my boys to go fishing ... it is not the same as having a real friend/mate."

A pensioner from Australia sparked an online campaign to find him a friend this week, after he posted a tear-jerking advert on Gumtree seeking someone to go fishing with him.

Ray Johnstone, a widower from Lewiston in South Australia, wrote in the ad that he was looking for a fishing mate as his "previous fishing mate is now deceased."

Appealing for a fishing enthusiast "in a similar position to myself," Ray wrote: "I am a land-based fisherman. I have all the gear for all types of fish that is required for land-based fishing.

"I am willing to share all costs, e.g. petrol, bait, and should you happen to own a boat [am] willing to pay all ramp fees, but happy if you are also a land-based fisherman."

He rounded off the ad with the suggestion that anyone interested could contact him to "arrange a meeting to see if we could get along with each other."

A number of people, touched by Ray's advert, took to Twitter offering their help to find him a companion with the hashtag #IllFishWithRay: