Government is guilty of dereliction of duty on social care funding | John Beer

John Beer    The current social care system is unfit for purpose for the future. Financial arrangements are deeply resented by service users, carers and families, while the rest of the population is either ignorant of them, or finds them incomprehensible. Meanwhile the demands on the system are becoming intolerable; demographic pressures rise each year with increasing numbers of frail older people and adults with disabilities. And we face a public spending horizon which is bleak: the case for change is compelling. This formed the opening paragraph of a speech by Jenny Owen, the then president of the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services, at the Conservative party conference in 2009. Why has nothing changed in the intervening eight, gruelling years? Owen was only interested in furthering the wellbeing of thousands of older people, and in telling a lot of truth to a lot of powerful politicians. And that is exactly how 45 former directors of adult social services felt when the chancellor failed to mention the needs of adult social care in his autumn statement. They expressed their anger in a letter to this newspaper recently. It is a strange paradox that despite knowing for nine years that we have ever-increasing demographic demands on social care, we can’t agree how to fund this, while governments have felt able to make dramatic cuts in financial provision instead. This rise in social care need is not an invention of social care departments. Nor is it caused by migrants. There are three causes: Better public health and health services mean people are living longer and in their later years developing long-term needs that would not have occurred if they had died younger. Babies with complex physical and mental problems who used not to survive birth or infancy are living fuller lives and are mostly cared for in the community rather than long-stay hospital. Both developments are welcome. But both bear a financial toll. The stresses of modern living result in many of us needing mental health support at some stage in our lives. Beware: we have come nowhere near to reaching the peak in the demands these three issues make on our services. Nor the emerging rise in obesity and the increased pressures caused by the rise in autism (which we seem to keep hoping we can ignore). The amount stripped out of social care and the devastating effects it has had on all the groups we support by those services have been well-documented and thoroughly aired elsewhere. But instead of facing these and other real pressures as a nation, what have we done? We have been taking money out of services designed to meet these needs for at least seven years. These cuts have not only taken away the services of non-statutory providers but have also led to reductions in social workers, which in turn has penalised the-just-about-managing who, with just a little help, could remain at home. Failure to act means that the pain is spread across tens of thousands of families all facing the very consequences governments have pretended they could be protected from. We cannot know whether this is because the Treasury officials don’t hear the same cries we hear, or whether No 10 said “ignore this for a few more years and it’ll go away”. But the direct consequences of government inaction must not, and cannot, be ignored. As our letter pointed out, every year about half a million older people are victims of some form of abuse. Rising suicides; rising deaths in the street; the rising consequences of people with unattended mental health issues, and the grim plight of rising numbers of elderly people either trapped on trolleys or what could be the re-emerging geriatric wards of the old-style NHS: all witness a shameful dereliction of duty by central government. As to the paradox of why, when there is increasing need, there can be the greatest cuts in social care since the creation of social services in 1970, we are reminded of the man and woman who kept a donkey and slowly and carefully taught it how to live without water. Unfortunately, just as they achieved their goal, the donkey died. People are suffering and dying now and we are not even noticing. John Beer is chair of Action on Elder Abuse and a former honorary secretary of the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services Topics  social care network: adult social care hub   Policy   Work practices   Social care   Public services policy     Public finance   Local government
(Society)   Local government
(Public Leaders Network)

The current social care system is unfit for purpose for the future. Financial arrangements are deeply resented by service users, carers and families, while the rest of the population is either ignorant of them, or finds them incomprehensible. Meanwhile the demands on the system are becoming intolerable; demographic pressures rise each year with increasing numbers of frail older people and adults with disabilities. And we face a public spending horizon which is bleak: the case for change is compelling.

This formed the opening paragraph of a speech by Jenny Owen, the then president of the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services, at the Conservative party conference in 2009. Why has nothing changed in the intervening eight, gruelling years?

Owen was only interested in furthering the wellbeing of thousands of older people, and in telling a lot of truth to a lot of powerful politicians. And that is exactly how 45 former directors of adult social services felt when the chancellor failed to mention the needs of adult social care in his autumn statement. They expressed their anger in a letter to this newspaper recently.

It is a strange paradox that despite knowing for nine years that we have ever-increasing demographic demands on social care, we can’t agree how to fund this, while governments have felt able to make dramatic cuts in financial provision instead.

We know social care is in cataclysmic crisis. Now we must find a solution Read more

This rise in social care need is not an invention of social care departments. Nor is it caused by migrants. There are three causes:

• Better public health and health services mean people are living longer and in their later years developing long-term needs that would not have occurred if they had died younger.

• Babies with complex physical and mental problems who used not to survive birth or infancy are living fuller lives and are mostly cared for in the community rather than long-stay hospital. Both developments are welcome. But both bear a financial toll.

• The stresses of modern living result in many of us needing mental health support at some stage in our lives.

Beware: we have come nowhere near to reaching the peak in the demands these three issues make on our services. Nor the emerging rise in obesity and the increased pressures caused by the rise in autism (which we seem to keep hoping we can ignore).

The amount stripped out of social care and the devastating effects it has had on all the groups we support by those services have been well-documented and thoroughly aired elsewhere. But instead of facing these and other real pressures as a nation, what have we done? We have been taking money out of services designed to meet these needs for at least seven years.

These cuts have not only taken away the services of non-statutory providers but have also led to reductions in social workers, which in turn has penalised the-just-about-managing who, with just a little help, could remain at home.

Failure to act means that the pain is spread across tens of thousands of families all facing the very consequences governments have pretended they could be protected from. We cannot know whether this is because the Treasury officials don’t hear the same cries we hear, or whether No 10 said “ignore this for a few more years and it’ll go away”.

But the direct consequences of government inaction must not, and cannot, be ignored. As our letter pointed out, every year about half a million older people are victims of some form of abuse. Rising suicides; rising deaths in the street; the rising consequences of people with unattended mental health issues, and the grim plight of rising numbers of elderly people either trapped on trolleys or what could be the re-emerging geriatric wards of the old-style NHS: all witness a shameful dereliction of duty by central government.

As to the paradox of why, when there is increasing need, there can be the greatest cuts in social care since the creation of social services in 1970, we are reminded of the man and woman who kept a donkey and slowly and carefully taught it how to live without water. Unfortunately, just as they achieved their goal, the donkey died.

People are suffering and dying now and we are not even noticing.

John Beer is chair of Action on Elder Abuse and a former honorary secretary of the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services

Join the Social Care Network to read more pieces like this. Follow us on Twitter (@GdnSocialCare) and like us on Facebook to keep up with the latest social care news and views.