Former secretary of Nazi propagandist Goebbels dies at 106
Former secretary of Nazi propagandist Goebbels dies at 106


The former secretary of Adolf Hitler's propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels has died, aged 106.

Brunhilde Pomsel, who began working for Goebbels in 1942 as he stepped up his vile propaganda campaign against Jews, desensitising Germans at the height of the Holocaust.

After her boss died in Hitler's bunker - killing his six children and then committing suicide with his wife - at the end of the war Pomsel disappeared into obscurity.

Brunhilde Pomsel (pictured, left, last year) said that as a young woman (right): 'I was a stupid, politically uninterested little sausage of simple means'

It was only in 2011 that she re-emerged, when a German newspaper published an interview with her, prompting a flurry of interest in the last surviving members of the Nazi leadership's inner circle.

She died in her sleep in Munich on Friday and her death was confirmed last night by Christian Kroenes, the director and producer of a documentary about her, A German Life.

In the documentary Pomsel talked about her three years working for the man responsible for spreading Hitler's poisonous ideology in newspapers and across the airwaves.

She said: 'I wouldn't see myself as being guilty. Unless you end up blaming the entire German population for ultimately enabling that government to take control. That was all of us. Including me.'

Goebbels (right) with his wife and children and Hitler, who Pomsel described as 'The Boss'

She was inside the Fuhrer's bunker in Berlin in May 1945 when he shot himself as the Red Army closed in on his lair.

Pomsel described in the film how she was told to keep the Nazi top brass supplied with alcohol 'in order to retain the numbness' and stave off the reality of their imminent defeat by the hated Russians.

Born in 1911, she left school in 1926 and started an apprenticeship with a Jewish wholesale manufacturer.

But as the Great Depression hit Germany - leading to the rise of the Nazis - she became unemployed, before getting a job as a shorthand secretary for Jewish insurance broker Dr Hugo Goldberg.

Dr Goldberg, like many Jews, fled Germany after Hitler gained power in 1933 but Pomsel began working for author Wulf Bley, who was closely connected to the Nazi Party.

Pomsel was interviewed for the documentary, A German Life, last year

She used these connections to get a job with the German Broadcasting Station radio channel and joined the Nazi party herself.

Goebbels spent much of his time at the radio station, making manic speeches in his increasingly shrill voice, and her offered a job as his assistant.

Thrilled to be working with the second most important person in the Third Reich, she jumped at the opportunity.

But she insisted that she was not aware of the 'Final Solution' - the extermination of millions of Jews in death camps in Germany, Austria and German-occupied Poland - until after the war and said Goebbels must have kept correspondence about it away from her sight.

After the war Pomsel was captured by Soviet troops and jailed for five years.

Astonishingly, after being released from prison in 1950, she went back to working in broadcasting in democratic West Germany until her eventual retirement in 1971. She is not thought to have married or had children.

Mr Kroenes said he spoke to Pomsel on her birthday, January 11, when she had sounded perfectly lucid.