FYI, Chrissy Teigen Is Really Fucking Funny On Snapchat
FYI, Chrissy Teigen Is Really Fucking Funny On Snapchat
You’re probably aware that Chrissy Teigen is just the best on Twitter. And her Instagram game is pretty spectacular too.  View on Instagram But she’s also amazing on Snapchat. You know how she’s hilariously honest about everything? Well, she’s the same on Snapchat. Seriously. She shares pictures of everything from her fake-tan fails… To her cooking fails… And her fashion fails. Snapchat Even her stretchmarks aren’t off limits. In fact, if you thought she’d be in flawless supermodel mode at all times, you would be wrong.  View on Instagram She’s pretty much all of us as a celebrity. She shares everyday moments from her life at home, including John Legend building popcorn machines.  View on Instagram With her getting excited by the finished result.  View on Instagram We also get to see super-cute everyday family moments. And PDAs. She’s also really fucking funny. There was the time she decided to troll everyone on Twitter by pretending she was bringing her newborn baby to a basketball game. Which was just a toy wrapped in a blanket. Sadly, the plan fell through. There was also the time she straight-up mocked New York Fashion Week.  View on Instagram And the time she posted this in response to John admitting he didn’t know what a Tamagotchi was. She’s honest about motherhood. And shares the most candid moments. And we get to see plenty of Luna, who’s literally the cutest baby on the planet. I mean, come on.  View on Instagram My heart can’t take it.   View on Instagram Other celebrities make guest appearances from time to time. Snapchat Snapchat And of course, there’s plenty of food. Snapchat Snapchat So much food. Snapchat Snapchat Have you seen a more relatable image in your life? Never change, Chrissy.   Beyoncé's Full Pregnancy Shoot Has Now Been Released...    You Need To See Mariah Carey Working Out In High Heels...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.