Listen to Spencer Ludwig Bring the Groove on 'Legend' and 'Fuel To The Fire': Exclusive
Listen to Spencer Ludwig Bring the Groove on 'Legend' and 'Fuel To The Fire': Exclusive
Listen to Spencer Ludwig Bring the Groove on 'Legend' and 'Fuel To The Fire': Exclusive  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Los Angeles singer-songwriter Spencer Ludwig is dropping two tracks today (Jan. 30) on that will give you your daily dose of funk. The first, “Legend,” will be the track used in the official promos for season 12 of NBC’s . The ear-candy jam is dripping with Ludwig’s signature sound, complete with a trumpet breakdown at the end. Ludwig tells about "Legend," “This song is about seeing ‘it’ in one person and being drawn to them like a moth to the flame. Sometimes you can't explain in words what attracts you to someone or something but you can't deny the feeling or presence when it hits you.”  Horns definitely take the lead in the second track “Fuel To The Fire.” The tempo is a bit slower than on “Legend,” but it’s a certified banger all the same. "'Fuel To The Fire' is a song about my appreciation for life's challenges," explains Ludwig. "Challenges, in many instances, drive me to excel... Sometimes it’s an internal driving force or a personal challenge to be better than yesterday that pushes you towards greatness.” 2017 is off to a great start for Ludwig, who will also perform on Feb. 4 at the NFL Honors awards presentation.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Los Angeles singer-songwriter Spencer Ludwig is dropping two tracks today (Jan. 30) on Billboard that will give you your daily dose of funk.

The first, “Legend,” will be the track used in the official promos for season 12 of NBC’s The Voice. The ear-candy jam is dripping with Ludwig’s signature sound, complete with a trumpet breakdown at the end.

Ludwig tells Billboard about "Legend," “This song is about seeing ‘it’ in one person and being drawn to them like a moth to the flame. Sometimes you can't explain in words what attracts you to someone or something but you can't deny the feeling or presence when it hits you.”

Horns definitely take the lead in the second track “Fuel To The Fire.” The tempo is a bit slower than on “Legend,” but it’s a certified banger all the same. "'Fuel To The Fire' is a song about my appreciation for life's challenges," explains Ludwig. "Challenges, in many instances, drive me to excel... Sometimes it’s an internal driving force or a personal challenge to be better than yesterday that pushes you towards greatness.”

2017 is off to a great start for Ludwig, who will also perform on Feb. 4 at the NFL Honors awards presentation.