D.C.’s first inch of snow Sunday night was polite, well-predicted and pretty (photos)

Sunday night’s “clipper” behaved about as well as a snow event can in Washington. The flakes fell while most people were sleeping — between about 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. — and ended before Monday morning’s commute. A widespread dusting to two inches accumulated as predicted, coating the grass and lining the trees while most roads remained wet. A slick spot here and there was enough for a few school systems to delay, giving teachers and students a little extra sleep. Disruptions, all in all, were minimal. Reagan National Airport, Washington’s official observing site, logged its first inch of snow of the winter — exactly one inch. Washington now has had 1.4 inches of snow on the year, which is still about six inches below average season-to-date. Dulles Airport posted 0.3 inches, while the White House checked in with 0.9 inches. Generally, a dusting to one inch fell from the District north, with no snow in the areas of Frederick and Howard County. To the south, half an inch to two inches accumulated, with some localized amounts to three inches. Based on reports from the National Weather Service and readers, here’s a brief summary of totals: Frederick County: No snow to a trace Howard County: No snow to a dusting Montgomery County: dusting to 0.5 inches, north to south Anne Arundel County: Trace to one inch, north to south Loudoun County: Trace to one inch Fairfax County: 0.5 to two inches, north to south The District: 0.5 to one inch Prince George’s County: Dusting to two inches, north to south Prince William County: one to three inches Charles County: one to three inches Fauquier County: one to three inches Calvert County: one to two inches Stafford County: two to three inches St. Mary’s County: 0.5 to two inches More or less, we predicted exactly what fell across the region if you compare the predicted totals (below) with what actually fell (above). The snow cut off a little farther south than we thought, so some areas in our far northern suburbs saw no snow — this possibility was covered in our bust scenario for this zone. In our south and southeast areas, we correctly called for a dusting to a couple of inches and the possibility of some locally higher amounts. However our totals were too low in our southwest areas in parts of Fauquier and Prince William counties. We rated this event a Level One “nuisance storm” on our winter storm impact scale in our southern areas — indicating a few slick spots and school delays were a possibility — which was about right. The wet snow clung to tree limbs, making for beautiful scenes around the region. Here are some photos from Washington Post photographer Matt McClain as well as readers. A Bit of Winter: Four Mile Run at Glencarlyn Park, Arlington Virginia 7:42 a.m. 1/30/17 https://t.co/bhUQxtP8uj  @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/wZgHgF9YoQ — Dennis Dimick (@ddimick) January 30, 2017 Snow lightly falls at the White House this morning pic.twitter.com/BHDGS6nfoQ — Chris Duncan (@CTDPIX) January 30, 2017 @capitalweather The Fairfax Cross County Trail, Springfield VA. It was a gorgeous run this morning. pic.twitter.com/BCuWakkuQH — Mark Skog (@MarkSkog) January 30, 2017 @ChuckBell4  @dougkammerer  @SheenaParveen  @capitalweather had about 3" of fluffy snow in Sumerduck, VA pic.twitter.com/0D82RVgdtW — Adam Moore (@amoore132002) January 30, 2017 @capitalweather several inches.. PWC #WinterWonderland  pic.twitter.com/9ftkTcJpXP — California_Dreamin (@oliegod37) January 30, 2017 Snowing with @uscapitol in the background. @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/fvIrkyOmPs — Jeremy Art (@jeremyart) January 30, 2017 We got a bit of #snow down in #PentagonCity overnight. @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/DJcpymdxJR — Jackie Barrientes (@JBarrientes_DC) January 30, 2017 Snow is pretty and not troublesome down here in Charles County — the perfect combo. About an inch outside Waldorf. @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/Y6k1qUcKDY — Megan Johnson (@rightmeg) January 30, 2017 Picture perfect 1" in Bluemont area of Arlington @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/wjp9g2NRf3 — Tom Mockler (@TomMockler) January 30, 2017 Pretty dusting of snow this morning in Falls Church #vawx  @capitalweather  pic.twitter.com/zoEnTv2nTY — Diane Shaw (@Museocat) January 30, 2017 Monday morning #snow in #RockCreekPark ! @capitalweather  @LoveRockCreek  pic.twitter.com/1MMUub5oej — Jeanne S. McVey (@RiverGirl707) January 30, 2017



Snow covers a stop sign on Monday in Alexandria. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)

Sunday night’s “clipper” behaved about as well as a snow event can in Washington.

The flakes fell while most people were sleeping — between about 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. — and ended before Monday morning’s commute. A widespread dusting to two inches accumulated as predicted, coating the grass and lining the trees while most roads remained wet. A slick spot here and there was enough for a few school systems to delay, giving teachers and students a little extra sleep. Disruptions, all in all, were minimal.

Reagan National Airport, Washington’s official observing site, logged its first inch of snow of the winter — exactly one inch. Washington now has had 1.4 inches of snow on the year, which is still about six inches below average season-to-date.

Dulles Airport posted 0.3 inches, while the White House checked in with 0.9 inches.

Generally, a dusting to one inch fell from the District north, with no snow in the areas of Frederick and Howard County. To the south, half an inch to two inches accumulated, with some localized amounts to three inches. Based on reports from the National Weather Service and readers, here’s a brief summary of totals:

Northern suburbs

Frederick County: No snow to a trace

Howard County: No snow to a dusting

Montgomery County: dusting to 0.5 inches, north to south

Anne Arundel County: Trace to one inch, north to south

Loudoun County: Trace to one inch



Snow totals, Jan. 30, 2017. (National Weather Service)

District and southern suburbs

Fairfax County: 0.5 to two inches, north to south

The District: 0.5 to one inch

Prince George’s County: Dusting to two inches, north to south

Prince William County: one to three inches

Charles County: one to three inches

Fauquier County: one to three inches

Calvert County: one to two inches

Stafford County: two to three inches

St. Mary’s County: 0.5 to two inches

How was the forecast?

More or less, we predicted exactly what fell across the region if you compare the predicted totals (below) with what actually fell (above). The snow cut off a little farther south than we thought, so some areas in our far northern suburbs saw no snow — this possibility was covered in our bust scenario for this zone.

In our south and southeast areas, we correctly called for a dusting to a couple of inches and the possibility of some locally higher amounts. However our totals were too low in our southwest areas in parts of Fauquier and Prince William counties.

We rated this event a Level One “nuisance storm” on our winter storm impact scale in our southern areas — indicating a few slick spots and school delays were a possibility — which was about right.

Snow photos

The wet snow clung to tree limbs, making for beautiful scenes around the region. Here are some photos from Washington Post photographer Matt McClain as well as readers.



A pedestrian walks through a snow-covered Founders Park in Alexandria. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)



A pedestrian waits near a bus stop along Martha Custis Drive in Alexandria. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)



Snow hangs from tree branches as a man crosses Cameron Street on Monday in Alexandria. Christ Church is seen in the background. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)



A light blanket of snow adds to the picturesque landscape in Edgewater, Md. (Michael Robinson Chavez/The Washington Post)



Jay Helinski, 20, walks through Founders Park. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)



Helinski works to clean off a portion of a pier next to the Alexandria Seaport Foundation. Helinski is an apprentice at the foundation, and he is currently working on building a boat. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)

A Bit of Winter: Four Mile Run at Glencarlyn Park, Arlington Virginia 7:42 a.m. 1/30/17 https://t.co/bhUQxtP8uj @capitalweather pic.twitter.com/wZgHgF9YoQ — Dennis Dimick (@ddimick) January 30, 2017

Snow lightly falls at the White House this morning pic.twitter.com/BHDGS6nfoQ — Chris Duncan (@CTDPIX) January 30, 2017

@capitalweather The Fairfax Cross County Trail, Springfield VA. It was a gorgeous run this morning. pic.twitter.com/BCuWakkuQH — Mark Skog (@MarkSkog) January 30, 2017

Snow is pretty and not troublesome down here in Charles County — the perfect combo. About an inch outside Waldorf. @capitalweather pic.twitter.com/Y6k1qUcKDY — Megan Johnson (@rightmeg) January 30, 2017

Picture perfect 1" in Bluemont area of Arlington @capitalweather pic.twitter.com/wjp9g2NRf3 — Tom Mockler (@TomMockler) January 30, 2017