Kit Kat sushi is all of our cravings wrapped into one, for better or worse
Kit Kat sushi is all of our cravings wrapped into one, for better or worse
We've seen sushi of all kinds : some sweet, some savory, some unnecessary, some gross and weird. But, Japan has stepped up their cute food game once again with Kit Kat sushi, our dessert dream come true. The sushi comes in three flavors: Maguro (tuna), Tamago (egg) and Uni (sea urchin). But, don't worry, the flavors are only named for the sushi that inspire them, not for their taste. SEE ALSO: Laser-cut seaweed makes sushi so beautiful you won't want to eat it Tokyo's first street-facing Kit Kat shop will open on Feb. 2 and will sell limited quantities of the candy treat between Feb. 2- Feb. 4. Maguro sushi The Maguro sushi features a raspberry Kit Kat sitting on a bed of puffed rice covered in white chocolate. Tamago sushi Tamago is a pumpkin pudding flavored Kit Kat, also with white chocolate-covered puffed rice, wrapped in seaweed. Uni sushi Uni features a double helping of Kit Kats with both Hokkaido melon and mascarpone cheese flavored candies, also wrapped in seaweed. If you're willing to spend 3,000 yen (US $26) to kill two cravings with one stone, better do it fast. We expect these cute confections to fly off the shelves. [H/T: ] BONUS: London Restaurant Delivers Sushi by iPad-Controlled Drone

We've seen sushi of all kinds: some sweet, some savory, some unnecessary, some gross and weird.

But, Japan has stepped up their cute food game once again with Kit Kat sushi, our dessert dream come true.

The sushi comes in three flavors: Maguro (tuna), Tamago (egg) and Uni (sea urchin). But, don't worry, the flavors are only named for the sushi that inspire them, not for their taste.

Tokyo's first street-facing Kit Kat shop will open on Feb. 2 and will sell limited quantities of the candy treat between Feb. 2- Feb. 4.

Maguro sushi

The Maguro sushi features a raspberry Kit Kat sitting on a bed of puffed rice covered in white chocolate.

Tamago sushi

Tamago is a pumpkin pudding flavored Kit Kat, also with white chocolate-covered puffed rice, wrapped in seaweed.

Uni sushi

Uni features a double helping of Kit Kats with both Hokkaido melon and mascarpone cheese flavored candies, also wrapped in seaweed.

If you're willing to spend 3,000 yen (US $26) to kill two cravings with one stone, better do it fast. We expect these cute confections to fly off the shelves.

[H/T: Kotaku]