Father John Misty Releases Unnerving Music Video for 'Two Wildly Different Perspectives'
Father John Misty Releases Unnerving Music Video for 'Two Wildly Different Perspectives'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Father John Misty Releases Unnerving Music Video for 'Two Wildly Different Perspectives'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Father John Misty isn’t shying away from the controversial political turmoil engulfing the United States currently. He released the song and accompanying music video for “Two Wildly Different Perspectives” -- off his upcoming third album , due out Apr. 7 -- through a Facebook post today (Jan. 30), with a crystal-clear message. “More kids are going to die now thanks to the unbelievably selfish immigration policy of places like Saudi Arabia and the USA,” Father John Misty posted in the caption accompanying the video.  The visual is comprised of clips of various children worldwide using guns and toy guns, as he sings off-screen “One side says, ‘Y’all go to hell’/The other says, ‘If I believed in God I’d send you there.” A number of other musicians have also spoken out in protest of President Donald Trump’s immigration ban this past weekend.  Watch the unsettling video for “Two Wildly Different Perspectives” below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Â Father John MistyÂ at The Theatre at Ace Hotel on Oct.Â 23, 2016 in Los Angeles.Â

Father John Misty isn’t shying away from the controversial political turmoil engulfing the United States currently. He released the song and accompanying music video for “Two Wildly Different Perspectives” -- off his upcoming third album Pure Comedy, due out Apr. 7 -- through a Facebook post today (Jan. 30), with a crystal-clear message.

“More kids are going to die now thanks to the unbelievably selfish immigration policy of places like Saudi Arabia and the USA,” Father John Misty posted in the caption accompanying the video.

The visual is comprised of clips of various children worldwide using guns and toy guns, as he sings off-screen “One side says, ‘Y’all go to hell’/The other says, ‘If I believed in God I’d send you there.”

A number of other musicians have also spoken out in protest of President Donald Trump’s immigration ban this past weekend.

Watch the unsettling video for “Two Wildly Different Perspectives” below.