Startups: Here's How To Get The Most Out Of A Strategic Investor
Startups: Here's How To Get The Most Out Of A Strategic Investor
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Valley Voices       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Sphero's BB-8 technical prototype is shown off at CES 2016 in Las Vegas, Nevada on January 4, 2016. (Credit: Ethan Miller/Getty Images) When a startup does decide that strategic investment is its best course of action, it's critical to think about how it will structure that relationship to get the most out of the strategic corporation that's interested. When done well, strategic investment can create tremendous value for portfolio companies. Some of these include: Internal navigation of a corporate giant: Strategic investors know the right ‘go to’ folks internally to help evangelize and grow your customer-vendor relationship with the company. Product support and innovation: Instead of building them out yourself, you can take advantage of big product testing and R&D teams with expansive resources. Market insights: Your corporate investor has big market research and consumer insights divisions whose data you can take advantage of to better refine your product. Distribution/Operations/IP: Strategic investors may have access to supply chain expertise and real estate locations that will help scale your production and product rollout. They may also possess key branded IP to help your product’s market launch. At the Disney Accelerator, Sphero produced a smartphone-controlled robot ball. Disney’s CEO, Bog Iger, had just come from his office having seen daily rushes from when he visited the Disney Accelerator, and realized that the movie’s BB-8 droid and Sphero had a natural partnership to come. Sphero was granted Disney Star Wars IP as a result of going through the company’s accelerator and its BB-8 Sphero toy was the must-have Christmas toy of 2015. Disney gave Sphero the biggest possible boost in customer acquisition and retail shelf space. Credit: Shutterstock Do you want the strategic’s representative as a full-time board member? Board observer? Or perhaps just provide the strategic with basic information rights? Who will be your board member or touchpoint at the corporate? If it’s someone junior from the strategic’s ventures group, for example, then you should probably object and ask for the most senior person you can get. He/she is likely to have the power to get things done on your proposed partnership investment. It’s worth noting that a way of getting access to strategic benefits accompanying an investment is through your advisory board or angel investors. A startup’s advisory board could grant equity to senior and experienced executives from their relevant industry, assuming the executive got sign off from conflicts of interest by their compliance department. Alternatively, appointing ex-senior directors and executives from said corporate could be an idea to pursue as they’re likely to have strong remaining ties to their former employer — or at the very least, can help you understand how decisions get made and who the right point people are to benefit your business.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

This is Part II of a two-part series on startups and strategic investors. Part I highlighted problems associated with strategic investment and can be found here.

When a startup does decide that strategic investment is its best course of action, it's critical to think about how it will structure that relationship to get the most out of the strategic corporation that's interested.

When done well, strategic investment can create tremendous value for portfolio companies. Some of these include:

Internal navigation of a corporate giant: Strategic investors know the right ‘go to’ folks internally to help evangelize and grow your customer-vendor relationship with the company.

Product support and innovation: Instead of building them out yourself, you can take advantage of big product testing and R&D teams with expansive resources.

Market insights: Your corporate investor has big market research and consumer insights divisions whose data you can take advantage of to better refine your product.

Distribution/Operations/IP: Strategic investors may have access to supply chain expertise and real estate locations that will help scale your production and product rollout. They may also possess key branded IP to help your product’s market launch.

At the Disney Accelerator, Sphero produced a smartphone-controlled robot ball. Disney’s CEO, Bog Iger, had just come from his office having seen daily rushes from Star Wars: The Force Awakens when he visited the Disney Accelerator, and realized that the movie’s BB-8 droid and Sphero had a natural partnership to come. Sphero was granted Disney Star Wars IP as a result of going through the company’s accelerator and its BB-8 Sphero toy was the must-have Christmas toy of 2015. Disney gave Sphero the biggest possible boost in customer acquisition and retail shelf space.

How much responsibility should you bestow upon a strategic investor?

Do you want the strategic’s representative as a full-time board member? Board observer? Or perhaps just provide the strategic with basic information rights? Who will be your board member or touchpoint at the corporate? If it’s someone junior from the strategic’s ventures group, for example, then you should probably object and ask for the most senior person you can get. He/she is likely to have the power to get things done on your proposed partnership investment.

It’s worth noting that a way of getting access to strategic benefits accompanying an investment is through your advisory board or angel investors. A startup’s advisory board could grant equity to senior and experienced executives from their relevant industry, assuming the executive got sign off from conflicts of interest by their compliance department. Alternatively, appointing ex-senior directors and executives from said corporate could be an idea to pursue as they’re likely to have strong remaining ties to their former employer — or at the very least, can help you understand how decisions get made and who the right point people are to benefit your business.

Continue reading...