Migos Are 'Ready' to Perform at Super Bowl If Petition Pans Out
Migos Are 'Ready' to Perform at Super Bowl If Petition Pans Out
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Migos Are 'Ready' to Perform at Super Bowl If Petition Pans Out  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  "Let's do it!" With Super Bowl LI looming, avid rap fans are pushing for a change in this year's halftime show. A new petition on Change.org is calling on Atlanta trio Migos to replace Lady Gaga . "Halftime should be Migos killing Bad and Boujee," reads the petition. "Future kills em with March Madness, then Outkast comes out and does an AQUEMINI sampler and then they end it with BUN B and JAY Z DOING BIG PIMPIN!!!! If you're gonna put on a show for billions THIS IS THE ONLY SHOW." As of Monday (Jan. 30), there are nearly 22,000 signatures in place, with the goal being 75,000. In a recent interview with , Migos were more than thrilled with the idea of performing "Bad and Boujee" on the biggest stage in sports. "I didn't know it was real and people got signatures," Quavo said in the interview. "Let's do it. We're ready to f---ing perform."  Fans also envisioned a pre-show consisting of some of Atlanta's all-stars, like Gucci Mane , Ludacris and Jeezy . To up the ante, the petition is asking for Andre 3000 and Erykah Badu to reunite and perform together, while having Young Thug croon "Guwop Home" in place of the national anthem. Instead, the NFL has booked stars Phillipa Soo, Renee Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones for the "Star-Spangled Banner" and Luke Bryan for "America the Beautiful." While the likelihood of the Super Bowl lineup changing now is slim, Migos can still rejoice that "Bad & Boujee" remains at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

"Let's do it!"

With Super Bowl LI looming, avid rap fans are pushing for a change in this year's halftime show. A new petition on Change.org is calling on Atlanta trio Migos to replace Lady Gaga.

"Halftime should be Migos killing Bad and Boujee," reads the petition. "Future kills em with March Madness, then Outkast comes out and does an AQUEMINI sampler and then they end it with BUN B and JAY Z DOING BIG PIMPIN!!!! If you're gonna put on a show for billions THIS IS THE ONLY SHOW."

As of Monday (Jan. 30), there are nearly 22,000 signatures in place, with the goal being 75,000. In a recent interview with Music Choice, Migos were more than thrilled with the idea of performing "Bad and Boujee" on the biggest stage in sports. "I didn't know it was real and people got signatures," Quavo said in the interview. "Let's do it. We're ready to f---ing perform."

Fans also envisioned a pre-show consisting of some of Atlanta's all-stars, like Gucci Mane, Ludacris and Jeezy. To up the ante, the petition is asking for Andre 3000 and Erykah Badu to reunite and perform together, while having Young Thug croon "Guwop Home" in place of the national anthem. Instead, the NFL has booked Hamilton stars Phillipa Soo, Renee Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones for the "Star-Spangled Banner" and Luke Bryan for "America the Beautiful."

While the likelihood of the Super Bowl lineup changing now is slim, Migos can still rejoice that "Bad & Boujee" remains at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100.