As an Iranian Briton, Theresa May's support for Trump makes me ask who will stand up for me
As an Iranian Briton, Theresa May's support for Trump makes me ask who will stand up for me
y parents are from Iran, and this heritage is partly why I’m a Conservative. Over the course of the weekend , however, I didn’t know if I was welcome in the country that is so important to my party’s view of the world. I grew up in a family that cherished tradition, ambition, community, and helping others - and these values led me to the Tories at a very early age. I was also inspired by the fact that the Charter of Human Rights, which underpinned Churchill’s dream of a United Nations, was written in Iran. Since then, I have had to deal with people who think that I ought to be left-wing because of my ethnicity. What was great about the Conservative Party was that they cared more about where I was heading than where I was from. nfortunately for me, my parents, and my grandmother in Tehran, President Donald Trump thinks where we’re from makes us a threat to the United States . On Friday, he signed an Executive Order which banned travel from seven Muslim-majority countries, including Iran. He justified it as way to stop terrorist attacks. As border officials started to enforce the ban, it became unclear if it also applied to dual-nationality British citizens like Sir Mo Farah and the Conservative MP Nadhim Zahawi. I work for a US company, and I worried if I would be made to choose between my job and seeing my grandmother. All this because of our heritage and despite the ban being termed a "gift to exremists". The Foreign Secretary secured a clarification last night , but I was only marginally reassured by it. According to one report , Mr Trump’s order wasn’t shared with Homeland Security until the day he signed it, so they had no time to put in place the bureaucracy to properly enforce it. This created the confusion and anger and protests of the weekend. If I were to travel to New York now, would airport security know about Mr Johnson’s clarification? I feel that this question leads to other ones about the special relationship. The Prime Minister went to Washington to pragmatically pursue our country’s interests, but on the same day she met Mr. Trump he ordered a blanket discrimination that affected thousands of British citizens – not to mention one of her own MPs. ike any Conservative, I believe that our alliance with America is made special by our shared values. Yet we need to ask ourselves if this president shares them too. If he doesn’t, should Mrs May embrace him so tightly ? If his actions this weekend are a prelude to the "Muslim Ban", will my heritage be sacrificed for the sake of realpolitik or will Mr Johnson try to get me another clarification? These are uncomfortable things to think about, but answers are needed nevertheless. I am proudly Persian and proudly Conservative. The two reinforce one another. However, I felt a mismatch these last few days as the woman I wanted to be my leader met the man who seemed to want me away from his country. Hopefully, Mrs May can use her influence with President Trump to heal the rift between these important sides of my identity.

Unfortunately for me, my parents, and my grandmother in Tehran, President Donald Trump thinks where we’re from makes us a threat to the United States. On Friday, he signed an Executive Order which banned travel from seven Muslim-majority countries, including Iran. He justified it as way to stop terrorist attacks. As border officials started to enforce the ban, it became unclear if it also applied to dual-nationality British citizens like Sir Mo Farah and the Conservative MP Nadhim Zahawi.

I work for a US company, and I worried if I would be made to choose between my job and seeing my grandmother. All this because of our heritage and despite the ban being termed a "gift to exremists".

The Foreign Secretary secured a clarification last night, but I was only marginally reassured by it. According to one report, Mr Trump’s order wasn’t shared with Homeland Security until the day he signed it, so they had no time to put in place the bureaucracy to properly enforce it. This created the confusion and anger and protests of the weekend. If I were to travel to New York now, would airport security know about Mr Johnson’s clarification?

I feel that this question leads to other ones about the special relationship. The Prime Minister went to Washington to pragmatically pursue our country’s interests, but on the same day she met Mr. Trump he ordered a blanket discrimination that affected thousands of British citizens – not to mention one of her own MPs.