Netflix Leads $100 Million-Plus Worth Of Deals At Sundance Film Festival 2017 [Updated]
Netflix Leads $100 Million-Plus Worth Of Deals At Sundance Film Festival 2017 [Updated]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Robehmed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. 'Mudbound,' about two soldiers returning home after WWII, sold for $12.5 million to Netflix, marking the biggest deal of Sundance 2017. (Photo courtesy Sundance Film Festival) Sundance Film Festival, the annual gathering of Hollywood bigwigs looking to score--and sell--independent movies, has now wrapped up in Park City, Utah, and many plum deals have been made. Leading the pack is Netflix's $12.5 million purchase of a drama about two men Throughout the 10-day festival, distributors including those streaming giants spent some $107 million-plus acquiring the rights to films they plan to release. The biggest spender: Netflix, which picked up at least 10 titles and spent over $36.5 million on its purchases. While sales remained robust, the eight figure deals were still shy of the $20 million Netflix reportedly offered for Nate Parker's in 2016. The movie was ultimately acquired by Fox Searchlight Pictures for a record-breaking $17.5 million. As streaming services compete to win viewers with a variety of stellar content, Sundance remains an important place to buy. For cinematic distributors, such as Fox Searchlight, Focus Features and A24, independent films can be profitable--and prestigious. The A24-produced cost some $5 million to make, but has already grossed nearly $15 million domestically alone. But with the rise of deep-pocketed streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Studios, pricetags at the festival have soared in recent years. Three years ago, prior to the emergence of deep-pocketed streaming distributors, the top sale at Sundance was , at $3.5 million. In 2017, scripted film rights have settled at a minimum of $3 million, according to The Hollywood Reporter , with many far exceeding that. This year, in an effort to stave off bidding wars--and to get more quality content--Amazon offered a deal for all filmmakers screening at Sundance. Though its Film Festival Stars program, the e-commerce-giant-turned-streaming-player agreed to pay $100,000 to all U.S. dramatic films and premieres at the festival. In return, they demanded worldwide streaming video-on-demand rights to the movies for 24 months, with the first 12 months exclusive. (The cash bonus scaled down to $75,000 for U.S. documentaries and $25,000 for films appearing in the world dramatic and world documentaries category, among others.) Amazon's agreement also offers to double the royalty rates Sundance filmmaker's movies will earn on Prime Video to 30 cents per hour viewed in the U.S. and 12 cents per hour viewed internationally. Here's the list of significant purchases from Sundance, big spenders first: Total = $36.5 million (U.S. Rights) Summary: Drama about two men returning to their homes in rural Mississippi after World War II, where they face racism and the realities of life after war. Pricetag: $12.5 million (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Drama about an anorexic girl in a group home and her effort to get better. Pricetag: Around $8 million, per Variety . (Streaming Rights) Summary: Four women, whose kids go to the same preschool, have dinner together. Drama ensues. When the night takes an unexpected turn, these unlikely new friends realize they have Pricetag: Some $5 million for both theatrical distribution and streaming rights, according to Deadline . eOne’s Momentum Pictures secured North American theatrical distribution rights.  Summary: Documentary that exposes the details of Russia's state-sponsored Olympic doping program. Pricetag: $5 million, per Variety . (Streaming Rights) Summary: Psychological thriller about an Australian photographer in Berlin who gets involved with a man and finds herself locked in his apartment. **Vertical landed North American theatrical distribution rights. (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Documentary focusing on the trial between Hulk Hogan and Gawker Media following Gawker's decision to publish part of sex tape. (Hogan's legal bills were paid for by billionaire Peter Thiel, FORBES first reported .) Pricetag: Around $2 million, according to Deadline . (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Comedy about an aspiring playwright dealing with the aftermath of a break up. Pricetag: Unknown (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Documentary covers the case of 6-year-old beauty pageant contestant, JonBenet Ramsay, who was murdered in 1996. Pricetag: Unknown (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Documentary detailing the destruction of coral reefs caused by climate change. Pricetag: Unknown (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Documentary following Hong Kong teenager named Joshua Wong who leads rallies to protest the Chinese Communist Party. Pricetag: Unknown ( Rights) Summary: Dramatic comedy about an aspiring comedian whose romance with a grad student does not sit well with his Muslim family. Pricetag: $12 million Summary: Documentary chronicling the rock band Grateful Dead Pricetag: Over $6 million, according to Deadline . Summary: Two sisters discover their dad’s affair. Pricetag: $3 million (Worldwide Rights) Summary: Drama follows the romance between an Italian teenager and a summer guest at his parents’ home. Pricetag: Nearly $6 million, according to Variety . Summary: Set in the early 1960s, this drama tracks a young woman training to become a nun as she navigates her religion and sexuality. Pricetag: Mid seven figures, according to Deadline . Summary: A kids TV show comes to an end and its only viewer must learn to cope with the loss. Pricetag: $5 million, per Deadline .  Summary: Documentary about a step dance team in a Baltimore charter school. Pricetag: $4 million, according to Deadline . Summary: Follows a young aspiring rapper in New Jersey. Pricetag: $9.5 million, reports Variety . (North American Rights) Summary: A young woman becomes obsessed with an Instagram star and attempts to befriend her in real life. Pricetag: $3 million, per Deadline . (North American Rights) Summary: A story of Roxanne Shanté, the teenage rapper from the Queensbridge projects, whose 1984 single "Roxanne’s Revenge” sold 250,000 copies and made her a hip-hop star. Pricetag: Near $3 million, according to Deadline . (North American Rights) Summary: Follows a gay teenager in Brooklyn struggling with his identity. Pricetag: Unknown Total = $5 million Summary: Two Connecticut teens rekindle their friendship—and plot a murder. Pricetag: Around $5 million, according to Deadline . (North American Rights) Summary: An aging actor receives a cancer diagnosis that leads him to reevaluate his life. Pricetag: $3 million, Deadline reports . (North American Rights) Summary: Documentary about big-game hunting and the threat it poses to Pricetag: $2 million, according to Deadline . ***CNN claimed broadcast rights. Summary: A young servant fleeing his master takes refuge at a convent in medieval Tuscany. Pricetag: Low-seven figures, according to Deadline . Summary: Action thriller in which two Brooklyn residents fight their way through a U.S. civil war. Pricetag: Seven figures, per Deadline . Summary: Drama starring Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara Pricetag: Unknown.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Sundance Film Festival, the annual gathering of Hollywood bigwigs looking to score--and sell--independent movies, has now wrapped up in Park City, Utah, and many plum deals have been made.

Leading the pack is Netflix's $12.5 million purchase of Mudbound, a drama about two men returning to rural Mississippi after World War II, which comes in at just north of the $12 million Amazon spent on The Big Sick, a dramatic comedy about an aspiring comedian whose relationship does not sit well with his Muslim family.

Throughout the 10-day festival, distributors including those streaming giants spent some $107 million-plus acquiring the rights to films they plan to release. The biggest spender: Netflix, which picked up at least 10 titles and spent over $36.5 million on its purchases.

While sales remained robust, the eight figure deals were still shy of the $20 million Netflix reportedly offered for Nate Parker's The Birth of a Nation in 2016. The movie was ultimately acquired by Fox Searchlight Pictures for a record-breaking $17.5 million.

As streaming services compete to win viewers with a variety of stellar content, Sundance remains an important place to buy. For cinematic distributors, such as Fox Searchlight, Focus Features and A24, independent films can be profitable--and prestigious. The A24-produced Moonlight cost some $5 million to make, but has already grossed nearly $15 million domestically alone.

But with the rise of deep-pocketed streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Studios, pricetags at the festival have soared in recent years. Three years ago, prior to the emergence of deep-pocketed streaming distributors, the top sale at Sundance was The Skeleton Twins, at $3.5 million. In 2017, scripted film rights have settled at a minimum of $3 million, according to The Hollywood Reporter, with many far exceeding that.

This year, in an effort to stave off bidding wars--and to get more quality content--Amazon offered a deal for all filmmakers screening at Sundance. Though its Film Festival Stars program, the e-commerce-giant-turned-streaming-player agreed to pay $100,000 to all U.S. dramatic films and premieres at the festival. In return, they demanded worldwide streaming video-on-demand rights to the movies for 24 months, with the first 12 months exclusive. (The cash bonus scaled down to $75,000 for U.S. documentaries and $25,000 for films appearing in the world dramatic and world documentaries category, among others.)

Amazon's agreement also offers to double the royalty rates Sundance filmmaker's movies will earn on Prime Video to 30 cents per hour viewed in the U.S. and 12 cents per hour viewed internationally.

Here's the list of significant purchases from Sundance, big spenders first:

Netflix

Total = $36.5 million

Mudbound (U.S. Rights)

Summary: Drama about two men returning to their homes in rural Mississippi after World War II, where they face racism and the realities of life after war.

Pricetag: $12.5 million

To The Bone (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Drama about an anorexic girl in a group home and her effort to get better.

Pricetag: Around $8 million, per Variety.

Fun Mom Dinner* (Streaming Rights)

Summary: Four women, whose kids go to the same preschool, have dinner together. Drama ensues. When the night takes an unexpected turn, these unlikely new friends realize they have

Pricetag: Some $5 million for both theatrical distribution and streaming rights, according to Deadline.

*eOne’s Momentum Pictures secured North American theatrical distribution rights.

Icarus (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary that exposes the details of Russia's state-sponsored Olympic doping program.

Pricetag: $5 million, per Variety.

Berlin Syndrome** (Streaming Rights)

Summary: Psychological thriller about an Australian photographer in Berlin who gets involved with a man and finds herself locked in his apartment.

Pricetag: Mid-to-low seven figures, per Deadline reports.

**Vertical landed North American theatrical distribution rights.

Nobody Speak (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary focusing on the trial between Hulk Hogan and Gawker Media following Gawker's decision to publish part of sex tape. (Hogan's legal bills were paid for by billionaire Peter Thiel, FORBES first reported.)

Pricetag: Around $2 million, according to Deadline.

The Incredible Jessica James (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Comedy about an aspiring playwright dealing with the aftermath of a break up.

Pricetag: Unknown

Casting JonBenet (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary covers the case of 6-year-old beauty pageant contestant, JonBenet Ramsay, who was murdered in 1996.

Pricetag: Unknown

Chasing Coral (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary detailing the destruction of coral reefs caused by climate change.

Pricetag: Unknown

Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary following Hong Kong teenager named Joshua Wong who leads rallies to protest the Chinese Communist Party.

Pricetag: Unknown

Amazon

Total = $23 million

The Big Sick (U.S. Rights)

Summary: Dramatic comedy about an aspiring comedian whose romance with a grad student does not sit well with his Muslim family.

Pricetag: $12 million

Long Strange Trip

Summary: Documentary chronicling the rock band Grateful Dead

Pricetag: Over $6 million, according to Deadline.

Landline (North American Rights)

Summary: Two sisters discover their dad’s affair.

Pricetag: $3 million

Sony Pictures Classic

Total = $16 million

Call Me by Your Name (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Drama follows the romance between an Italian teenager and a summer guest at his parents’ home.

Pricetag: Nearly $6 million, according to Variety.

Novitiate (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Set in the early 1960s, this drama tracks a young woman training to become a nun as she navigates her religion and sexuality.

Pricetag: Mid seven figures, according to Deadline.

Brigsby Bear (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: A kids TV show comes to an end and its only viewer must learn to cope with the loss.

Pricetag: $5 million, per Deadline.

Fox Searchlight

Total = $13.5 million

Step (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Documentary about a step dance team in a Baltimore charter school.

Pricetag: $4 million, according to Deadline.

Patti Cake$

Summary: Follows a young aspiring rapper in New Jersey.

Pricetag: $9.5 million, reports Variety.

Neon

Total = $6 million+

Ingrid Goes West (North American Rights)

Summary: A young woman becomes obsessed with an Instagram star and attempts to befriend her in real life.

Pricetag: $3 million, per Deadline.

Roxanne Roxanne (North American Rights)

Summary: A story of Roxanne Shanté, the teenage rapper from the Queensbridge projects, whose 1984 single "Roxanne’s Revenge” sold 250,000 copies and made her a hip-hop star.

Pricetag: Near $3 million, according to Deadline.

Beach Rats (North American Rights)

Summary: Follows a gay teenager in Brooklyn struggling with his identity.

Pricetag: Unknown

Focus Features

Total = $5 million

Thoroughbred

Summary: Two Connecticut teens rekindle their friendship—and plot a murder.

Pricetag: Around $5 million, according to Deadline.

The Orchard

Total = $5 million

The Hero (North American Rights)

Summary: An aging actor receives a cancer diagnosis that leads him to reevaluate his life.

Pricetag: $3 million, Deadline reports.

The Trophy*** (North American Rights)

Summary: Documentary about big-game hunting and the threat it poses to endangered animals.

Pricetag: $2 million, according to Deadline.

***CNN claimed broadcast rights.

Gunpowder & Sky

The Little Hours

Summary: A young servant fleeing his master takes refuge at a convent in medieval Tuscany.

Pricetag: Low-seven figures, according to Deadline.

RLJ Entertainment

Bushwick

Summary: Action thriller in which two Brooklyn residents fight their way through a U.S. civil war.

Pricetag: Seven figures, per Deadline.

A24

A Ghost Story (Worldwide Rights)

Summary: Drama starring Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara

Pricetag: Unknown.

Read more from Sundance Film Festival:

Amazon Acquires 'The Big Sick' For $12 Million

Netflix Acquires 'The Incredible Jessica James

'Beatriz At Dinner' Acquired By Roadside Attractions And FilmNation

Follow me on Twitter.