Modern Military Families: Ensuring Security For The All-Volunteer Force
Modern Military Families: Ensuring Security For The All-Volunteer Force
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Capital Flows       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Military families, like many American families, are adapting to face new economic realities that are often accompanied by tough choices. Take Justin, a captain in the United States Air Force. With more than six years of service under his belt, a solid professional foundation and vital life skills, he’s calling it quits this year to put his wife’s medical career ahead of his own and to help lay down financial roots for their son. Captain Justin is one of the 2 million members of our military who have fought our wars over the past 15 years. And while he is proud of his military service, he has strong feelings about how the military lifestyle is affecting his family. He is not alone. The findings of Blue Star Families’ Seventh Annual Military Family Lifestyle Survey—the largest of its kind outside the Department of Defense—reveal a portrait of military families motivated by the mission, but fraying from the strain of service. Brandon Sistrunk, left, poses in southwest Asia and his wife, Ashley, and kids pose in Colorado Springs, Colo. (Courtesy of Ashley Sistrunk via AP) As our new commander in chief takes office, President Trump will need to confront the reality that the people, the culture of America, and the mission of the military has changed so much since the inception of the All-Volunteer Force 40 years ago that, as currently structured, may longer be sustainable. Our military has a critical job, not only for our country but for our world, providing security and stability so that we can enjoy prosperity and freedom here at home. Many Americans are not aware of the cost of this stability. More than 200,000 members of the military are deployed to 150 countries at all times, often separated from their families and feeling the often-debilitating effects of stress, anxiety, depression and isolation. Unlike the Cold War fight at the beginning of the All-Volunteer Force, where military men and women often served without having to deploy, our survey shows virtually all serving men and women are either preparing for, in the midst of, or coming home from a deployment—contrary to what many Americans assume, now that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are largely over. The current tempo of operations is not sustainable, according to 72% of the survey’s respondents. More than 4 in 10 said their families had experienced more than 6 months of separation in the last 18 months. Unlike the 1970s, when most people in uniform were single, today the majority or service members are married and have children, particularly those who remain past a single tour of duty. And unlike the 1970s, when we designed this All-Volunteer Force, today’s military spouses need to work for their families to achieve the American Dream, as calculated by in 2014.  Yet the military lifestyle of frequent moves, deployments and heightened caregiving responsibilities means a staggering 21% of military spouses in our survey are unemployed—compared to a 4.4 unemployment among similar civilians—and many more are significantly under-employed or discouraged seeking work. We know the military lifestyle intimately as military spouses and, through our work with Blue Star Families, in military family support. One of us joined the military family community prior to the All-Volunteer Force and served as part of it until recently—Sheila’s husband’s final assignment was Chief of Staff of the Army. The other joined after the end of the Cold War, before 9/11. Kathy saw eight moves in 16 years, and her daughter attended ten schools by 10th grade. Both of us faced career challenges; between us we have nearly 60 years of connection to the military. We understand the honor and joys of service, but also the challenge, and we see that today’s military is different. Millennials have experiences and priorities that elevate the requirement that we understand military families are part of national security. Outgoing Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter pushed forward with his Force of the Future initiative. The Blue Star Families survey suggests we can’t retain the force of the future if we are structured for the force of the past. We need to recognize that the free people who serve in our military must not be put in the position of choosing between serving their nation and seeing their families thrive. We must structure so both are possible. Defense Secretary Ash Carter speaks during a news conference at the Pentagon, Thursday, Jan. 28, 2016, where he announced the latest in his Force of the Future reforms. Carter intends to double the length of fully paid maternity leave for female service members, and will also boost time off for paternity leave and adoptions (AP Photo/Cliff Owen) President Trump can strengthen the force by right-sizing the military to the missions, so that we achieve the targeted time at home that military planners say is sustainable for training, maintenance and family stability. He can encourage public-private partnerships to support spouse employment and access to child care, essentials for stability and morale. There is much more the average American can do as well and we urge you to reach out to the military families in your community. Meanwhile, Blue Star Families and many other organizations, such as the Red Cross and the USO, will continue to fulfill our missions, working to find more opportunities to bridge the gap for military families across our country. The Top 10 Military Friendly Employers For 2016    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Military families, like many American families, are adapting to face new economic realities that are often accompanied by tough choices. Take Justin, a captain in the United States Air Force. With more than six years of service under his belt, a solid professional foundation and vital life skills, he’s calling it quits this year to put his wife’s medical career ahead of his own and to help lay down financial roots for their son.

Captain Justin is one of the 2 million members of our military who have fought our wars over the past 15 years. And while he is proud of his military service, he has strong feelings about how the military lifestyle is affecting his family. He is not alone. The findings of Blue Star Families’ Seventh Annual Military Family Lifestyle Survey—the largest of its kind outside the Department of Defense—reveal a portrait of military families motivated by the mission, but fraying from the strain of service.

As our new commander in chief takes office, President Trump will need to confront the reality that the people, the culture of America, and the mission of the military has changed so much since the inception of the All-Volunteer Force 40 years ago that, as currently structured, may longer be sustainable.

Our military has a critical job, not only for our country but for our world, providing security and stability so that we can enjoy prosperity and freedom here at home. Many Americans are not aware of the cost of this stability. More than 200,000 members of the military are deployed to 150 countries at all times, often separated from their families and feeling the often-debilitating effects of stress, anxiety, depression and isolation.

Watch On Forbes: Five Reasons The Navy's Aircraft Carriers Are Becoming More Vital To U.S. Security

Unlike the Cold War fight at the beginning of the All-Volunteer Force, where military men and women often served without having to deploy, our survey shows virtually all serving men and women are either preparing for, in the midst of, or coming home from a deployment—contrary to what many Americans assume, now that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are largely over. The current tempo of operations is not sustainable, according to 72% of the survey’s respondents. More than 4 in 10 said their families had experienced more than 6 months of separation in the last 18 months. Unlike the 1970s, when most people in uniform were single, today the majority or service members are married and have children, particularly those who remain past a single tour of duty. And unlike the 1970s, when we designed this All-Volunteer Force, today’s military spouses need to work for their families to achieve the American Dream, as calculated by USAToday in 2014. Yet the military lifestyle of frequent moves, deployments and heightened caregiving responsibilities means a staggering 21% of military spouses in our survey are unemployed—compared to a 4.4 unemployment among similar civilians—and many more are significantly under-employed or discouraged seeking work.

We know the military lifestyle intimately as military spouses and, through our work with Blue Star Families, in military family support. One of us joined the military family community prior to the All-Volunteer Force and served as part of it until recently—Sheila’s husband’s final assignment was Chief of Staff of the Army. The other joined after the end of the Cold War, before 9/11. Kathy saw eight moves in 16 years, and her daughter attended ten schools by 10th grade. Both of us faced career challenges; between us we have nearly 60 years of connection to the military. We understand the honor and joys of service, but also the challenge, and we see that today’s military is different. Millennials have experiences and priorities that elevate the requirement that we understand military families are part of national security.

Outgoing Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter pushed forward with his Force of the Future initiative. The Blue Star Families survey suggests we can’t retain the force of the future if we are structured for the force of the past. We need to recognize that the free people who serve in our military must not be put in the position of choosing between serving their nation and seeing their families thrive. We must structure so both are possible.

President Trump can strengthen the force by right-sizing the military to the missions, so that we achieve the targeted time at home that military planners say is sustainable for training, maintenance and family stability. He can encourage public-private partnerships to support spouse employment and access to child care, essentials for stability and morale. There is much more the average American can do as well and we urge you to reach out to the military families in your community. Meanwhile, Blue Star Families and many other organizations, such as the Red Cross and the USO, will continue to fulfill our missions, working to find more opportunities to bridge the gap for military families across our country.