Iran tests ballistic missile in violation of UN resolution
Iran carries out ballistic missile test in violation of UN resolution


Iran carried out a test launch of a medium-range ballistic missile on Sunday which exploded after 630 miles, a US official said on Monday.

The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the test launch was carried out from a site near Semnan, approximately 140 miles east of Tehran.

The last time this type of missile was test launched was in July 2016.

Iran defense minister Brigadier Gen Hossein Dehqan said in September that such missiles would be produced by the country.

The Obama administration previously said that Iran's ballistic missile tests had not violated the nuclear agreement, but President Donald Trump has said he will stop Tehran's missile program.

A medium-range ballistic missile was tested on Sunday in Iran and exploded after 630 miles, a US official said on Monday. The test was carried out from a site near Semnan, 140 miles east of Tehran. Pictured above is a file photo from a March 2015 ballistic missile test in IRan

President Donald Trump has said he will stop Tehran's missile program, per the UN resolution agreement

Under the UN resolution approving the nuclear deal that was made in 2015, Iran is 'called upon' to refrain from work on ballistic missiles designed to deliver nuclear weapons for up to eight years.

Critics of the deal have said the language is ambiguous and does not make compliance obligatory, while Tehran says the missiles it has tested are not specifically designed to carry nuclear warheads.

The deal was brokered by the United States, Russia, China, Britain, Germany and France.

This month, Iranian lawmakers approved plans to increase military spending, including expanding the long-range missile programme.

On Sunday, Trump spoke with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and the two 'agreed on the importance of rigorously enforcing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran and of addressing Iran's destabilizing regional activities,' the White House said in a statement.

Launching a ballistic missile could fall under 'destabilizing regional activities'.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday he planned to push Trump to renew sanctions against Iran during a visit to Washington next month.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday he planned to push Trump to renew sanctions against Iran during a visit to Washington next month

Netanyahu has been harshly critical of the deal that six world powers including the United States under president Barack Obama struck with Iran to curb its nuclear programme in return for an end to multilateral sanctions.

Iran is Israel's avowed enemy and Israel argues that the agreement fails to prevent Iranian weapons posing a threat to its very existence.

'I will meet President Trump in Washington soon, and among the issues I will address, is the need to renew the sanctions against Iran,' Netanyahu wrote on Facebook on Monday.

'Sanctions against the ballistic missiles, and other sanctions against the terror, and re addressing the failed agreement on its nuclear capabilities.

'I know that this bothers not only Israel, and not only the US but other countries in the region. Iran's aggression should not be ignored.'

Iran sparked international outrage last March when it conducted two ballistic missile tests, one displaying the message, 'Israel must be wiped out' in Hebrew.