Universities speak out against Trump travel ban, commit to defending international students
Universities speak out against Trump travel ban, commit to defending international students
Top officials at many prominent U.S. universities are doubling down on their commitment to the traditionally American values of multiculturalism, religious pluralism and tolerance as President Trump’s recent executive order on immigration stirs anxiety and disorientation among international students. The White House announced Friday that for at least 90 days, citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and Africa — Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — will not be issued visas or granted entry into the U.S. Admission of all refugees was halted for 120 days. In response, college presidents, teachers and students have taken a variety of actions to stress the importance of international scholars and students in the quality and character of their institutions. Many are condemning Trump’s orders as deeply unsettling and contrary to the core principles of their universities and the United States. Todd Fernandez, a graduate student in engineering at Purdue University, has been active in protests efforts against the Trump administration. He said that his friends from countries affected by the travel ban are frankly terrified. “They do not know what is going to happen to them and people they love. Others are trying to be supportive, but that only goes so far,” Fernandez told Yahoo News. The common sight of protests on college campuses over the weekend was merely one facet of the seemingly ubiquitous demonstrations across the country and beyond. What is less common however — and arguably more telling of the troubled state of the nation — is the bold and defiant statements from presidents of top U.S. universities. The Rev. John I. Jenkins , the University of Notre Dame president, released a statement Sunday denouncing the “sweeping, indiscriminate and abrupt character” of the executive orders that will halt the work of some students and faculty members. He said these academics have already undergone thorough review processes in the post-9/11 era and contributed immensely to their campuses. “If it stands, it will over time diminish the scope and strength of the educational and research efforts of American universities, which have been the source not only of intellectual discovery but of economic innovation for the United States and international understanding for our world,” he said. According to Jenkins, the executive order demeans the “true greatness” of the United States’ guiding ideals: welcoming immigrants, offering compassion for refugees, respecting religious faith, refusing to compromise principles in the face of threats and valuing fairness in general. “We respectfully urge the president to rescind this order,” Jenkins said. Purdue University president Mitch Daniels said in a statement Sunday that there are many better ways to protect Americans from terrorism than this executive order. “The President’s order related to immigration is a bad idea, poorly implemented, and I hope that he will promptly revoke and rethink it,” Daniels said. Drew Faust , the president of Harvard University, penned an open letter titled “We Are All Harvard” to members of the school’s community on Sunday. She said the university has already taken steps to better inform and help international students as everyone grapples with the full, concrete consequences of Trump’s executive orders. She said a “paramount source” of Harvard’s strength is that it attracts students and scholars from around the world. Similarly, she said, thousands of students travel abroad each year to gain experiences that they would not be able to replicate on campus that elevates the school and helps sustain “human bonds essential to mutual understanding.” “Our robust commitment to internationalism is not an incidental or dispensable accessory. It is integral to all we do, in the laboratory, in the classroom, in the conference hall, in the world,” she said. Mark Schlissel , the University of Michigan president, released a similar statement Saturday affirming the school’s commitment to its international student body and faculty. He said the university’s actions regarding immigration status are consistent with its “long-standing positions on non-discrimination, privacy and public safety.” “The University of Michigan welcomes and supports students without regard to their immigration status,” he said. “We will continue to admit students in a manner consistent with our non-discrimination policy. Once students are admitted, the university is committed to fostering an environment in which each student can flourish.” Schlissel said the University of Michigan will refuse to divulge the immigration statuses of its international students. The university’s international center released an open letter to international students. It outlines how Trump’s controversial orders might affect the students and affirms the staff’s continued commitment to their well-being, safety and success. “During this challenging and uncertain time, please take care of yourself and continue to focus on the positive reasons you came to U-M,” the letter reads. “We are glad that you are here.” Trump defends travel ban amid fierce backlash ACLU raises more than $10M since immigration order signed Where will Trump’s aides draw the line on lies?

Top officials at many prominent U.S. universities are doubling down on their commitment to the traditionally American values of multiculturalism, religious pluralism and tolerance as President Trump’s recent executive order on immigration stirs anxiety and disorientation among international students.

The White House announced Friday that for at least 90 days, citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and Africa — Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — will not be issued visas or granted entry into the U.S. Admission of all refugees was halted for 120 days.

In response, college presidents, teachers and students have taken a variety of actions to stress the importance of international scholars and students in the quality and character of their institutions. Many are condemning Trump’s orders as deeply unsettling and contrary to the core principles of their universities and the United States.

Todd Fernandez, a graduate student in engineering at Purdue University, has been active in protests efforts against the Trump administration. He said that his friends from countries affected by the travel ban are frankly terrified.

“They do not know what is going to happen to them and people they love. Others are trying to be supportive, but that only goes so far,” Fernandez told Yahoo News.

Slideshow: Protests against Trump’s travel ban hit the streets of NYC >>>

The common sight of protests on college campuses over the weekend was merely one facet of the seemingly ubiquitous demonstrations across the country and beyond. What is less common however — and arguably more telling of the troubled state of the nation — is the bold and defiant statements from presidents of top U.S. universities.

The Rev. John I. Jenkins, the University of Notre Dame president, released a statement Sunday denouncing the “sweeping, indiscriminate and abrupt character” of the executive orders that will halt the work of some students and faculty members. He said these academics have already undergone thorough review processes in the post-9/11 era and contributed immensely to their campuses.

“If it stands, it will over time diminish the scope and strength of the educational and research efforts of American universities, which have been the source not only of intellectual discovery but of economic innovation for the United States and international understanding for our world,” he said.

Slideshow: Protests at U.S. airports over travel ban >>>

According to Jenkins, the executive order demeans the “true greatness” of the United States’ guiding ideals: welcoming immigrants, offering compassion for refugees, respecting religious faith, refusing to compromise principles in the face of threats and valuing fairness in general.

“We respectfully urge the president to rescind this order,” Jenkins said.

Purdue University president Mitch Daniels said in a statement Sunday that there are many better ways to protect Americans from terrorism than this executive order.

“The President’s order related to immigration is a bad idea, poorly implemented, and I hope that he will promptly revoke and rethink it,” Daniels said.

Drew Faust, the president of Harvard University, penned an open letter titled “We Are All Harvard” to members of the school’s community on Sunday. She said the university has already taken steps to better inform and help international students as everyone grapples with the full, concrete consequences of Trump’s executive orders.

She said a “paramount source” of Harvard’s strength is that it attracts students and scholars from around the world. Similarly, she said, thousands of students travel abroad each year to gain experiences that they would not be able to replicate on campus that elevates the school and helps sustain “human bonds essential to mutual understanding.”

Slideshow: Anti-Trump protesters rally for Muslim and immigrant rights >>>

“Our robust commitment to internationalism is not an incidental or dispensable accessory. It is integral to all we do, in the laboratory, in the classroom, in the conference hall, in the world,” she said.

Mark Schlissel, the University of Michigan president, released a similar statement Saturday affirming the school’s commitment to its international student body and faculty. He said the university’s actions regarding immigration status are consistent with its “long-standing positions on non-discrimination, privacy and public safety.”

Read More