'Black Widow' married dead Brit for his money, says friend
'Black Widow' friend says she only married dead Brit for his money


The best friend of the Ukrainian 'Black Widow' accused of luring her wealthy British husband to his death claims she only married him for his money.

Besotted businessman Barry Pring was mysteriously killed in a high speed hit and run while flagging down a taxi on a motorway in 2008 after dinner with his internet bride, former lap dancer Ganna Ziuzina.

An inquest ruled her IT consultant husband Barry, 47, was unlawfully killed - and her family insisted Ziuzina was to blame.

Now her best friend Tatiana Pereklita has claimed the former stripper had 'no love' for the businessman - and was not upset by his death.

'There was no love there. Anna [Ganna] just found a wealthy husband for herself,' Tatiana said.

'Gold digger': Tatiana Pereklita, pictured, said former best friend Ganna Ziuzina was stuck in a loveless marriage to wealthy British husband Barry Pring, whose family accuse her of being involved in the killing

Gold digger: Tatiana, pictured, who was at their wedding in Kiev, Ukraine, said it was a marriage of convenience and that Miss Ziuzina had only married Barry for his money. She said: 'She thought of him as just an old bloke in love with her whom she could use.'

Death: Former stripper Miss Ziuzina, right, is said to have lured Barry, left, onto the hard shoulder of a dual carriageway in Kiev where he was killed by a car travelling at at least 80mph with no lights on and using stolen number plates. The car didn't brake to slow down

'And Barry was not a young boy, he wanted to get married. I think both of them knew exactly what the other wanted.

'I knew Barry. He was a good man, very nice and polite. I attended their wedding and later we met each other in the same group of friends.'

Tatiana added: 'She [Ziuzina] just wanted his money. She thought of him as just an old bloke in love with her whom she could use.'

Since the former friends last spoke five years ago, Miss Ziuzina, who was dubbed a 'gold digger' at the British inquest into her husband's death, has moved to Spain with another wealthy British businessman, Ivan Lister.

For the last 16 months she has lived at a lavish villa she owns in Marbella, complete with swimming pool, where she lives with property developer Mr Lister, with whom she had a young daughter with in 2013.

The internet bride also paid bought a three-bedroom flat £130,000 in a nearby development for her parents.

'I feel that she will never come back to Ukraine,' Tatiana told MailOnline.

Foul play: A UK coroner ruled last week that IT consultant Barry was 'unlawfully killed' in 2008 after allegedly being 'tricked' into standing on a stretch of highway in Kiev. Miss Ziuzina, left with her former husband, was dubbed a 'gold digger' at the inquest into his death

Hit and run: Miss Ziuzina has always insisted her husband was killed in a road accident. Tatiana, pictured, was called by her former friend as a witness. But she told MailOnline she wasn't with her that night and knows nothing of what happened

Mystery: Tatiana, above, has not spoken to Miss Ziuzina, dubbed the Ukrainian 'Black Widow' for five years. Of the marriage she said: 'Barry was not a young boy, he wanted to get married. I think both of them knew exactly what the other wanted.'

Relatives of Barry told a coroners court last week they believe internet bride Ziuzina 19 years his junior arranged his brutal death to seize his £1.5million inheritance.

He was allegedly tricked into standing by a busy dual carriageway following a boozy dinner with his wife and was killed instantly by a car travelling at up to 80mph without its lights on carrying stolen number-plates.

The car did not apply its breaks. Barry was pinned and dragged against the barrier for 100ft.

Barry, originally from Devon, owned five properties and was worth an estimated £1.5million. His assets are currently frozen under a High Court order.

His wife did not attend his inquest asserting that she had nothing to say.

Her estranged friend Tatiana said she cannot be sure whether she arranged his murder.

'You can't read into another person's soul,' she said from her drab Soviet-era apartment in Kiev's rundown Goloseyevka district. 'I understand that people are dividing a big fortune in this case.

Moving on: Miss Ziuzina, 38, has since moved into a lavish villa in Marbella with British property developer Ivan Lister, above, with whom she had a daughter, three, in 2013

Luxury: As well as the sprawling £700,000 villa which Miss Ziuzina purchased with her own money, she also bought a £150,000 three bedroom flat for her parents nearby

'After Barry's death, Anna told the police to list me as a witness. Since then I've had to give evidence many times. Each time I repeated that I knew nothing.

'Anna was very upset after his death but probably not because of the fact of his death - but due to all this noise around it.'

The businessman's brother Shaughan has told of how Miss Ziuzina was cold and detached when she Skyped him to tell his his brother was dead.

He said: 'It was like someone calling to tell you a cat has been run over. It wasn't emotional. It didn't seem like she really cared.'

The police probe into his death has been dogged by accusations of corruption but British detectives cannot travel to Ukraine to investigate his death - and his wife's alleged involvement - without the permission of local authorities.

Shaughan Pring, 54, has said British police must be allowed to join a new probe to ensure the killer and any accomplices face justice - and even called on the Prime Minister to intervene in the case.

He said: 'The Ukrainian police say they have no suspects, that just beggars belief… I would like Theresa May to put pressure on the Ukrainian authorities to allow British police to help investigate.'

It is claimed a close friend of Miss Ziuzina was a senior officer in the Ukraine police traffic department at the time of the murder.

She was granted legal aid to fight for a major share of her ex-husband's fortune following his death - leading to a bitter falling out with his family.

Now the inquest has finished, the legal battle over his estate is set to resume in court.

Accused: Miss Ziuzina, pictured, met her late husband on an internet bride dating site. At the time she was a stripper. He put her up in a flat and paid her so that she no longer needed to work as a lapdancer

Besotted: Friends of Barry Pring, from Exeter, in Devon say he was under his Ukranian wife's control. He died when he was killed hailing a taxi on a dual carriageway in Kiev as the couple celebrated their first wedding anniversay

Feud: Miss Ziuzina was granted legal aid to fight for a share of her ex-husband's £1.5million estate following his death - leading to a bitter falling out with his family, pictured at their wedding

Barry's family claims she sold his Rolex watch, antique furniture, television and even the sofa after moving into his flat in Battersea, London.

British police do not have 'jurisdiction' in Ukraine and therefore cannot bring any charges over the case, but they could potentially send officers to Kiev for a joint investigation.

The Pring family's local Tory MP, Neil Parish, has vowed to raise the case in the House of Commons.