Drake Won't Be at the Grammy Awards
Drake Won't Be at the Grammy Awards
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Drake Won't Be at the Grammy Awards  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Justin Bieber and Kanye West are reportedly also considering missing Music's Biggest Night. Frank Ocean has been public about his decision to sit out this year's Grammy Awards, despite making one of 2016's best albums with . But he's not alone here. Drake will also miss Music's Biggest Night, with rumors Justin Bieber and Kanye West are considering skipping it as well. According to Drake's tour schedule , the hip-hop superstar will be performing in Manchester, England, on Feb. 12, which would make appearing at the Staples Center in Los Angeles that same night impossible. Drake has eight nominations. Meanwhile, reports that Bieber and West are both considering missing the event as well. They have four and eight nominees, respectively. The website says their absence would not be in protest of the award show, but because they don't feel it is representative of the best new music. has reached out to their management for comment.  West previously said he wouldn't attend the Grammys if Ocean's wasn't nominated in any categories. "As artists, we’ve got to come together to fight the bullshit," he said. Ocean's wasn't nominated, but by the artist's own doing. He did not submit it for award consideration out of protest against the The Recording Academy failing to properly award young, black artists, calling this his "Colin Kaepernick moment." "That institution certainly has nostalgic importance," Ocean told the . "It just doesn't seem to be representing very well for people who come from where I come from, and hold down what I hold down."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Justin Bieber and Kanye West are reportedly also considering missing Music's Biggest Night.

Frank Ocean has been public about his decision to sit out this year's Grammy Awards, despite making one of 2016's best albums with Blonde. But he's not alone here. Drake will also miss Music's Biggest Night, with rumors Justin Bieber and Kanye West are considering skipping it as well.

According to Drake's tour schedule, the hip-hop superstar will be performing in Manchester, England, on Feb. 12, which would make appearing at the Staples Center in Los Angeles that same night impossible. Drake has eight nominations.

Meanwhile, TMZ reports that Bieber and West are both considering missing the event as well. They have four and eight nominees, respectively. The website says their absence would not be in protest of the award show, but because they don't feel it is representative of the best new music. Billboard has reached out to their management for comment.

West previously said he wouldn't attend the Grammys if Ocean's Blonde wasn't nominated in any categories. "As artists, we’ve got to come together to fight the bullshit," he said.

Ocean's Blonde wasn't nominated, but by the artist's own doing. He did not submit it for award consideration out of protest against the The Recording Academy failing to properly award young, black artists, calling this his "Colin Kaepernick moment."

"That institution certainly has nostalgic importance," Ocean told the New York Times. "It just doesn't seem to be representing very well for people who come from where I come from, and hold down what I hold down."