Prince William and Prince Harry Honor Their Mother With a Statue at Kensington Palace
Prince William and Prince Harry Honor Their Mother With a Statue at Kensington Palace
Princess Diana has remained in everyone’s hearts, most especially her two sons. To honor her memory, Prince William and Prince Harry have commissioned a statue of their mother. In a statement, Prince Harry said, “It has been twenty years since our mother’s death and the time is right to recognize her positive impact in the U.K. and around the world with a permanent statue. Our mother touched so many lives. We hope the statue will help all those who visit Kensington Palace to reflect on her life and her legacy.” Both princes have carried on their mother’s charitable works. Prince Harry co-founded Sentebale in Lesotho, which means “Forget Me Not.” The charity’s goal is to help the most vulnerable children of southern Africa who suffer from HIV/AIDS. Most recently, Prince Harry supported the Running Charity. The organization works with young people who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. After running with a group of kids, Prince Harry recreated his mom’s photo with the same charity … 22 years later, in the same stairwell. Meanwhile, Prince William and his wife, Kate Middleton , visited to a Child Bereavement UK Centre. Originally supported by Princess Diana, the charity helps families deal with grief. Prince William was seen comforting a little girl whose father had died of cancer. The Duke of Cambridge said to the 9-year-old girl, “I lost my Mummy when I was very young, too.” A memorial to the Princess of Wales will soon grace the grounds of Kensington Palace. It will be unveiled before the end of 2017. Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram , .

Princess Diana has remained in everyone’s hearts, most especially her two sons. To honor her memory, Prince William and Prince Harry have commissioned a statue of their mother.

In a statement, Prince Harry said, “It has been twenty years since our mother’s death and the time is right to recognize her positive impact in the U.K. and around the world with a permanent statue. Our mother touched so many lives. We hope the statue will help all those who visit Kensington Palace to reflect on her life and her legacy.”

Both princes have carried on their mother’s charitable works. Prince Harry co-founded Sentebale in Lesotho, which means “Forget Me Not.” The charity’s goal is to help the most vulnerable children of southern Africa who suffer from HIV/AIDS.

Most recently, Prince Harry supported the Running Charity. The organization works with young people who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. After running with a group of kids, Prince Harry recreated his mom’s photo with the same charity … 22 years later, in the same stairwell.

Meanwhile, Prince William and his wife, Kate Middleton, visited to a Child Bereavement UK Centre. Originally supported by Princess Diana, the charity helps families deal with grief. Prince William was seen comforting a little girl whose father had died of cancer. The Duke of Cambridge said to the 9-year-old girl, “I lost my Mummy when I was very young, too.”

A memorial to the Princess of Wales will soon grace the grounds of Kensington Palace. It will be unveiled before the end of 2017.

Go down memory lane and watch Prince Harry’s 14-day Caribbean Tour.



Tell us what you think! Share your comments with us on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Julissa Bermudez, on Twitter.