Ko Ni: Murder of Suu Kyi's political advisor intended to 'destabilise' Myanmar, President's office says



Ko Ni: Murder of Suu Kyi's political advisor intended to 'destabilise' Myanmar, President's office says

Posted

The office of Myanmar's civilian President has said the assassination of a lawyer advising the ruling party on amending a military-drafted constitution was likely an effort to destabilise the country.

Key points: The president's office says investigations are underway, while a suspect has been detained

It is unclear if Ko Ni was killed was his religion or for his work on the role of the military

Thousands gathered to mourn Ko Ni, however Myanmar leader Suu Kyi did not attend

On Sunday, a lone gunman shot 63-year-old Ko Ni — an adviser to the ruling National League for Democracy (NLD) — in the head in front of onlookers as the widely respected Muslim advocate held his young grandson at Yangon's international airport.

"The initial interrogation indicates the intention to destabilise the state," the office of President Htin Kyaw said in a statement carried in the state-run Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper — it did not give details.

"Investigations are being carried out by the Government to find out the truth. Security has been heightened in the aftermath of the assassination."

Authorities have detained Ko Ni's suspected killer, a 53-year-old man — he also shot and killed a taxi driver who tried to apprehend him.

It remains unclear if Ko Ni was targeted for his religion or for his work toward reducing the political role of Myanmar's military.

But the killing comes at a time of heightened communal and religious tensions in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, where a civilian government led by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi has been in power for 10 months after a formal transition from decades of military rule.

A heavy-handed security operation in Rakhine state, a region home to many Rohingya Muslims, has led to an estimated 69,000 from the largely stateless community fleeing into neighbouring Bangladesh.

Tens of thousands of people gathered in Yangon on Monday to mourn the death of Ko Ni, who was working on amending the constitution that ruling generals drafted in 2008 and which grants the army a quarter of seats in Parliament and control over security ministries.

Ms Suu Kyi did not attend the funeral of her close adviser, and has not issued any statement.

Reuters

Topics: murder-and-manslaughter, government-and-politics, burma, asia