Radio 2 invites Brian Matthew to record a 'goodbye' Sounds of the 60s for his avid listeners
Radio 2 invites Brian Matthew to record a 'goodbye' Sounds of the 60s for his avid listeners
rian Matthew is to record a farewell Sounds of the 60s show for Radio 2, after an outcry from listeners over the decision to replace him. The BBC said Matthew “will have the opportunity to say goodbye to his listeners” in a special programme at Easter. he corporation announced last week that a new presenter would take over from Matthew, 88, after he took time off to recover from a fall. Matthew said the idea he was too ill to continue was “absolute balderdash” and insisted he was “ready and willing and able” to return to the Saturday morning show he has hosted since 1990. Fans contacted Radio 2 in their droves to complain, and a petition calling for Matthew to be reinstated had passed 5,000 signatures last night. Regular listeners are affectionately known as 'avids'. The BBC released a statement that said: “We are discussing a series of special Sounds of the 60s programmes with Brian which we hope to broadcast at Easter. Brian will have the opportunity to say goodbye to his listeners.” Speaking from his home, Matthew said: “They have now rearranged everything so I’m supposed to be recording another programme. It will be a farewell, as far as I’m aware. “A friend called me and said people were unhappy about me going, and that is so gratifying in itself.” Told about the thousands who had signed the petition, Matthew said: “My goodness, that is absolutely marvellous.” ounds of the 60s is made by an independent production company, and after consulting them the BBC said last week it was “the right time for [Brian] to step off the weekly treadmill of presenting the show”. Sir Tim Rice has been covering for Matthew but it is not known if he will step into the role full time. Lewis Carnie, the Radio 2 controller, paid tribute to him as a “radio legend”. Matthew has been with the station since 1954, hosting Saturday Club, Easy Beat and Round Midnight.

The corporation announced last week that a new presenter would take over from Matthew, 88, after he took time off to recover from a fall.

Matthew said the idea he was too ill to continue was “absolute balderdash” and insisted he was “ready and willing and able” to return to the Saturday morning show he has hosted since 1990.

Fans contacted Radio 2 in their droves to complain, and a petition calling for Matthew to be reinstated had passed 5,000 signatures last night. Regular listeners are affectionately known as 'avids'.

The BBC released a statement that said: “We are discussing a series of special Sounds of the 60s programmes with Brian which we hope to broadcast at Easter. Brian will have the opportunity to say goodbye to his listeners.”

Speaking from his home, Matthew said: “They have now rearranged everything so I’m supposed to be recording another programme. It will be a farewell, as far as I’m aware.

“A friend called me and said people were unhappy about me going, and that is so gratifying in itself.” Told about the thousands who had signed the petition, Matthew said: “My goodness, that is absolutely marvellous.”