A Silicone Ring Worn Around Your Penis Can Improve Your Sex Life Via An App. Lovely, Isn't It?
A Silicone Ring Worn Around Your Penis Can Improve Your Sex Life Via An App. Lovely, Isn't It?
A Silicone Ring Worn Around Your Penis Can Improve Your Sex Life Via An App. Lovely, Isn't It? Imagine a Fitbit tracker for your dick -- that's what Lovely is all about, a wearable device that couples as a unique sex toy, built for analyzing your sex life. Available in wild green and soft pink, and meant to be worn at the base of the penis, Lovely has inbuilt sensors to measure things like movement, position, top speed, number of thrusts recorded during sex and it also measures calories burned during the process. The Lovely unit lasts for up to two hours (with vibration on) and seven hours (with vibration off), and charges wirelessly through a base station. You can make sense of all that recorded data through Lovely's companion Android or iOS app with a simple Bluetooth connection. Hang on, that's not it. Lovely also claims to vibrate and provide clitoral stimulation, and generally provide a helping hand for users struggling to get a stiffy. According to Jakub Konik, the creator of Lovely, the point of the device and app is to enhance people's sex lives through the power of data and customized recommendations for couples. He ran a successful Indiegogo campaign for Lovely in 2016, too, generating a lot of interest for the product internationally. Lovely is selling for US $169 (approximately Rs 10,000), and ships to India, claims Mashable. Something to consider to spice up Valentine's Day celebrations?

Imagine a Fitbit tracker for your dick -- that's what Lovely is all about, a wearable device that couples as a unique sex toy, built for analyzing your sex life.

Available in wild green and soft pink, and meant to be worn at the base of the penis, Lovely has inbuilt sensors to measure things like movement, position, top speed, number of thrusts recorded during sex and it also measures calories burned during the process.

The Lovely unit lasts for up to two hours (with vibration on) and seven hours (with vibration off), and charges wirelessly through a base station. You can make sense of all that recorded data through Lovely's companion Android or iOS app with a simple Bluetooth connection.

Hang on, that's not it. Lovely also claims to vibrate and provide clitoral stimulation, and generally provide a helping hand for users struggling to get a stiffy.

According to Jakub Konik, the creator of Lovely, the point of the device and app is to enhance people's sex lives through the power of data and customized recommendations for couples. He ran a successful Indiegogo campaign for Lovely in 2016, too, generating a lot of interest for the product internationally.

Lovely is selling for US $169 (approximately Rs 10,000), and ships to India, claims Mashable. Something to consider to spice up Valentine's Day celebrations?