US government calls for urgent UN consultation after Iran allegedly test launches ballistic missile



US government calls for urgent UN consultation after Iran allegedly test launches ballistic missile

Posted

The United Nations Security Council has scheduled "urgent consultations" to discuss Iran's apparent weekend test launch of a medium-range ballistic missile.

Key points: Iran neither confirms nor denies conducting a ballistic missile test at the weekend

The US says the missile exploded after travelling 1,000km

There are differing opinions on whether such a test would violate a 2015 UN resolution

The consultations, called for by the US Government, are expected to be held after the Council's planned meeting on Syria.

A US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that on Sunday Iran test-launched a medium-range ballistic missile that exploded after travelling just over 1,000 kilometres.

The White House said it was studying the details of the suspected ballistic missile test.

Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif neither confirmed nor denied a missile launch, but said Tehran would never use its ballistic missiles to attack another country.

During a joint news conference with visiting French counterpart Jean-Marc Ayrault, Mr Zarif was asked if Iran had conducted a recent missile test.

"The missile issue is not part of the nuclear deal. As all signatories to the nuclear deal have announced, the missile issue is not a part of (the deal)," he said.

He was referring to a July 2015 accord between Iran and six world powers under which it scaled back its nuclear program to defuse concerns it could be used to make atomic bombs.

It provided Iran relief from crippling economic sanctions.

Iran's missiles, he added are, "not designed for the capability of carrying a nuclear warhead … Our ballistic missile was designed to carry a normal warhead in the field of legitimate defence."

State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the US was looking into whether the ballistic missile test violates the 2015 United Nations Security Council resolution on the nuclear accord.

Resolution 2231 calls on Iran not to take any actions related to ballistic missiles "designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons".

Mr Zarif on Tuesday said he hoped the issue was not used as "an excuse for some political games by the new US administration.

"The Iranian people would never allow their defence to be subject to the permission of others."

Meanwhile, the European Union called on Tehran to "refrain from activities which deepen mistrust".

EU foreign policy spokeswoman Nabila Massrali said that a ballistic missile test would not be a violation of the nuclear deal, but that it was "inconsistent" with Resolution 2231.

"Whether it constitutes a violation is for the Security Council to determine," she said.

Wires

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, nuclear-issues, world-politics, iran-islamic-republic-of, united-states