Dana White Says Ronda Rousey's UFC Career Is 'Probably Done'
Dana White Says Ronda Rousey's UFC Career Is 'Probably Done' 
It’s been exactly one month since Ronda Rousey got absolutely destroyed by Amanda Nunes at UFC 207 . But we still aren’t sure what the future holds for Rousey. She posted this quote on Instagram a few weeks ago: A photo posted by rondarousey (@rondarousey) on Jan 9, 2017 at 1:37pm PST But since then, she has done her best to stay out of the limelight, and it sounds like she might keep it way, too. UFC president Dana White appeared on the podcast this week and was asked about whether or not he thinks Rousey is ever going to return to the Octagon. Even though she's clearly not the top draw in the UFC anymore, her fights would still attract a lot of attention. But White didn’t seem like he is going to hold out much hope for Rousey making another return. "In the conversation I had with her, if I had to say right here, right now—again, I don’t like saying right here, right now because it’s up to her—but I wouldn’t say she fights again," White said. "I think she’s probably done...She’s going to ride off into the sunset and start living her life outside of fighting." Prior to her fight with Nunes, Rousey did mention that she wasn’t planning on fighting for much longer . She has also spoken about how she’s going to go off the grid once she does eventually call it quits . So given her recent silence, it wouldn’t be surprising at all to see her unceremoniously "ride off into the sunset" as White suggested without much warning.

It’s been exactly one month since Ronda Rousey got absolutely destroyed by Amanda Nunes at UFC 207. But we still aren’t sure what the future holds for Rousey.

She posted this quote on Instagram a few weeks ago:

A photo posted by rondarousey (@rondarousey) on Jan 9, 2017 at 1:37pm PST

But since then, she has done her best to stay out of the limelight, and it sounds like she might keep it way, too.

UFC president Dana White appeared on the UFC Unfiltered podcast this week and was asked about whether or not he thinks Rousey is ever going to return to the Octagon. Even though she's clearly not the top draw in the UFC anymore, her fights would still attract a lot of attention. But White didn’t seem like he is going to hold out much hope for Rousey making another return.

"In the conversation I had with her, if I had to say right here, right now—again, I don’t like saying right here, right now because it’s up to her—but I wouldn’t say she fights again," White said. "I think she’s probably done...She’s going to ride off into the sunset and start living her life outside of fighting."

Prior to her fight with Nunes, Rousey did mention that she wasn’t planning on fighting for much longer. She has also spoken about how she’s going to go off the grid once she does eventually call it quits. So given her recent silence, it wouldn’t be surprising at all to see her unceremoniously "ride off into the sunset" as White suggested without much warning.