Writing experts say Lech Walesa was Russian secret agent
Handwriting experts say Lech Walesa WAS Russian secret agent


Handwriting experts have claimed that Polish solidarity hero Lech Walesa was a Russian spy as his scrawl matches that of a well-known communist collaborator.

Analysts from the Institute of National Remembrance, a Polish organisation that probes crimes against the Polish nation, have been studying handwritten documents by a agent codenamed Bolek.

And they have concluded that their findings show Walesa was a secret collaborator between 1970 and 1976 as the writing contained in the notes is 'identical' to that of his.

Accusation: Handwriting experts have claimed that Polish solidarity hero Lech Walesa was a Russian spy as his scrawl matches that of a well-known communist collaborator

But Walesa has continued to deny the claims and has alleged that the new analysis is bogus.

He added that there must have been 'coercion' on the graphologist to 'confirm what is obviously untrue'.

His denials comes just months after he took to Facebook to issue a similar statement and refute claims he was a Russian spy.

In May last year, the former president, who helped bring about the collapse of Communism in Poland, said he would publish 900 documents he has for people to decide for themselves whether he was a secret agent.

Proof?: The papers include a one-page handwritten note declaring readiness to secretly provide information to the secret police, signed by hand with the name Lech Walesa and the codename 'Bolek'

Defence: But Walesa has hit back at the accusations, by getting hold of the file himself and publishing it online - pointing out pages like these, which he says hold the key to proving they are faked

Walesa made the decision to start sharing the papers after documents apparently showing his signature seemingly agreeing to work for the Communist secret police were released in February - reigniting conspiracy theories around the leader.

The documents were handed to authorities in Warsaw by Maria Kiszczak, the widow of Poland's former Interior Minister General Czeslaw Kiszczak, who needed the money for home repairs.

They contained 183 pages of a personal file on an agent codenamed Bolek and 576 pages of work carried out by the agent between 1970 and 1976.

The files suggested that Poland's first post-Communist president served as a paid spy for the same regime he later fought and brought down - something Walesa has strongly denied.

He wrote: 'I've never kept secrets in my life. Let the truth of this rubbish come out. Almost everything is a lie and a fake against me. This is what I get for serving my country.

'So judge me, fight with me, and find the truth. I'm not hiding anything and do not deny anything. Let the truth prevail.'

He promised his Facebook followers he would make all the documents public if his post received 10,000 likes.

But after falling short by 8,000 likes he decided to publish them anyway, saying: 'As promised all documents are posted here, you will see the deception.'

Legendary: Walesa - who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983 for his defiant opposition to the communists - says there should be more names than this on the forms and that 'anyone with experience' would know that

Murky: This form, dated January 27, 1972, shows 'Bolek' received 600 PLN 'from an officer of the SB' (the secret police) - but Walesa says he never received such a payment

The declaration released in February by Poland's Institute of National Remembrance (IPN) said: 'The undersigned, Lech Walesa, the son of Boleslawa and Feliks born in 1943 in Popowo, Lipno, agrees to maintain the strict secrecy of talks held between him and employees of the security services.

'At the same time he undertakes to cooperate with the secret police in detecting and combating enemies of communism. He will pass on the information in writing and it will be truthful.

'The fact that he cooperates with the secret services he undertakes to keep strictly confidential and to not disclose even to his family.

'The information will be signed with the pseudonym 'Bolek.'

Mr Walesa's signature appears at the bottom of the document just above the codename Bolek.

Mistake: The legendary leader admitted he had 'made a mistake' but flatly denied he was ever a regime agent. Exactly what the mistake is remained unclear, but he said a mystery person should come forward

U-turn: He had said on Facebook he would release the files if his post got 10,000 likes, but it only got 2,000. Walesa carried on and released the documents regardless

Idolised: Lech Walesa raises his arms to a cheering crowd as he leaves the shipyard in Gdansk, Poland, where he worked in June 1983

Secret: The files also contain 576 pages of work carried out by the agent between 1970-1976

But he has always denied having worked for the secret police, and, after obtaining copies of the documents contained in the so-called Kiszczak files.

Two of the documents previously posted online by Mr Walesa show the names of intelligence officers who dealt with his file - but some are missing, proving, he says, the documents are fake.

Mr Walesa posted the first set of documents online, but then bizarrely deleted them a few hours later. They failed to prove whether or not he was a spy. His press office failed to respond to calls from MailOnline.

Mr Walesa - renowned worldwide for negotiating a bloodless end to communism in Poland in 1989 - said: 'There are two documents, one in each file supposedly found in Kisczak's file.

'Anyone who has the slightest idea about these things knows that in those documents there has to be certain names. Here they are not.

I've never kept secrets in my life. Let the truth of this rubbish come out. Almost everything is a lie and a fake against me.

'I put these two documents as indisputable evidence they are fake.'

He added that he would make the names of the officers missing from the list public and then a few hours later published them.

Other documents show receipts for cash payments from secret police officers to an agent named Bolek.

One dated January 27, 1972, shows 'Bolek' received 600 PLN 'from an officer of the SB' (the secret police).

Another dated April 5, 1972, shows payment of 500 PLN while another from October 30, 1972, shows payment for 600 PLN.

But Mr Walesa denies receiving these payments and said there were a few agents using the codename Bolek and has now called for them to come forward.

He said: 'In Gdansk there were a few Boleks whose information was collected and added to my file. If some Bolek recognises this please contact me. He will not be in danger and I will be his protector. Here it comes down to truth, decency and honour.'

Exposed: Maria Kiszczak (pictured), 82, the widow of the former Polish general Prime Minister General Czeslaw Kiszczak sold papers which suggested revolutionary hero Walesa was a communist spy

Defended: Mrs Kiszczak had no idea what they contained, but told MailOnline: 'My husband wanted to protect Walesa's reputation as a hero'

General Kiszczak's widow Maria Kiszczak, 82, who handed the documents over for an alleged £12,485 (90,000 PLN), because she needed to money for house repairs, won't be able to help, however.

She told MailOnline: 'Before he died, my husband said that if I ever needed financial help I should take these documents to the IPN.

'They were bound together and I didn't open them. It was only when the police came that I discovered there was a note inside saying they should not be made public for decades after his death.

'I feel guilty because I didn't realise there would be such a reaction. And I didn't realise the documents were supposed to be kept secret for years.

'My husband wanted to protect Walesa's reputation as a hero.'