This 6-Point Guide Will Help You Ace Your Selfie Game Even In Low Light At Night
This 6-Point Guide Will Help You Ace Your Selfie Game Even In Low Light
This 6-Point Guide Will Help You Ace Your Selfie Game Even In Low Light At Night Let’s just say it out loud. We are selfie addicts and can go click, click, click at every opportune moment. From selfies with friends to selfies out of sheer boredom, it is our one-stop solution to make life more fun. Luckily for us, no one has found a cure to help us get rid of this much-loved foible. While some may still think there is hope, I have pretty much given into my vices and I am only working on improving the quality of my clicks. If you’re a selfie addict like me, you’ve landed on the right page because here is a guide that will help you ace the low light selfie that has always been a problem. 1. Do not ignore the basics. Clean your camera lens with a microfiber cloth or cotton swab to remove the dust particles that would otherwise blur the images. It might sound like a no-brainer but it is something that most of us never do. 2. Apply the golden rule of photography. Use the grid option on your camera (the horizontal and vertical lines that divide your phone into nine squares) to apply the golden rule of photography- the rule of thirds where the most important subjects of the picture need to be placed along the gridlines and the intersections. 3. Let your headphones do the trick. If there is one thing that can adversely affect the quality of your images, especially in low-light, it is the tilts and shakes. The OPPO F1s offers you a cool solution to keep your images shake-free. All you need to do is plug in your headphones and use the volume button to click selfies on your OPPO F1s. 4. Make the best of the available light. Avoid flash and opt for streetlights or another source of light during the night  If you use an OPPO F1s, you can use the LED flash to compliment your low light photography. The trick is to keep the lighting at a medium distance from the object. 5. Always let the HDR mode add magic to your images. It captures images as you see them and not as your camera lens sees them. HDR is particularly handy when you are shooting landscapes and low light images but it is not always a good option when you are shooting action images or images where there is a vibrant mix of colours.

Let’s just say it out loud. We are selfie addicts and can go click, click, click at every opportune moment. From selfies with friends to selfies out of sheer boredom, it is our one-stop solution to make life more fun. Luckily for us, no one has found a cure to help us get rid of this much-loved foible. While some may still think there is hope, I have pretty much given into my vices and I am only working on improving the quality of my clicks. If you’re a selfie addict like me, you’ve landed on the right page because here is a guide that will help you ace the low light selfie that has always been a problem.

1. Do not ignore the basics.

Pexels

Clean your camera lens with a microfiber cloth or cotton swab to remove the dust particles that would otherwise blur the images. It might sound like a no-brainer but it is something that most of us never do.

2. Apply the golden rule of photography.

Pexels

Use the grid option on your camera (the horizontal and vertical lines that divide your phone into nine squares) to apply the golden rule of photography- the rule of thirds where the most important subjects of the picture need to be placed along the gridlines and the intersections.

3. Let your headphones do the trick.

Pexels

If there is one thing that can adversely affect the quality of your images, especially in low-light, it is the tilts and shakes. The OPPO F1s offers you a cool solution to keep your images shake-free. All you need to do is plug in your headphones and use the volume button to click selfies on your OPPO F1s.

4. Make the best of the available light.

OPPO

Avoid flash and opt for streetlights or another source of light during the night to create dramatic silhouettes and shadows. Use a mix of brightly lit and dimly lit spaces to create some interesting images. If you use an OPPO F1s, you can use the LED flash to compliment your low light photography. The trick is to keep the lighting at a medium distance from the object.

5. Always let the HDR mode add magic to your images.

Pexels

It captures images as you see them and not as your camera lens sees them. HDR is particularly handy when you are shooting landscapes and low light images but it is not always a good option when you are shooting action images or images where there is a vibrant mix of colours.

6. Give the Auto Mode some rest.

OPPO

Take out a few seconds to manually tweak the focus and adjust the White Balance Settings on your phone. The OPPO F1s allows you to capture RAW images that give you the control over the edit. Play around with cool edit applications on your phone or use the night camera applications with special exposure modes that can help you take sharper low-light images.

So, don't let low-light hold you back. It’s about getting the best out of it in every possible scenario. All it takes is a few simple steps and passion for capturing a great shot!