Charles Oakley Blasts Charles Barkley Over LeBron James Comments
Charles Oakley Blasts Charles Barkley Over LeBron James Comments
Charles Oakley hates Charles Barkley . There’s really no other way to put it. According to various reports, Oakley once open-hand slapped Barkley prior to a union meeting back in the late 1990s, and the two former NBA stars have been at odds ever since. As recently as just last year, Oakley took to Twitter to blast Barkley for talking tough on TNT , and it’s clear they’re probably never going to get along again. That became even more clear on Tuesday morning after Oakley found out about all of the things LeBron James had to say about Barkley on Monday night. LeBron called Barkley a "hater" while speaking with ESPN.com and went off on Barkley for being so critical of him throughout the course of his career. Oakley saw what LeBron said and responded to it by sending a shot in Barkley’s direction on Twitter: I love everything LeBron James said about the hater he need to stop drinking at work. TNT can I stop by and get a drink And of course, Oakley’s single tweet sent NBA Twitter into a frenzy: Charles Oakley is a national treasure https://t.co/QZ2HHsOSrI You never lie sir. @CharlesOakley34  https://t.co/Asx0cpHqiR Charles Oakley wants to whip Barkley again. Like it's the 90's. @CharlesOakley34 Thank you for being loyal to Cleveland. You represent Cleveland well. Fuck Barkley! Charles Barkley vs. Charles Oakley on the Soulja Boy vs. Chris Brown undercard..make it happen So yeah. Charles Oakley definitely still hates Charles Barkley! As if we all didn’t know that already…

Charles Oakley hates Charles Barkley. There’s really no other way to put it. According to various reports, Oakley once open-hand slapped Barkley prior to a union meeting back in the late 1990s, and the two former NBA stars have been at odds ever since. As recently as just last year, Oakley took to Twitter to blast Barkley for talking tough on TNT, and it’s clear they’re probably never going to get along again.

That became even more clear on Tuesday morning after Oakley found out about all of the things LeBron James had to say about Barkley on Monday night. LeBron called Barkley a "hater" while speaking with ESPN.com and went off on Barkley for being so critical of him throughout the course of his career. Oakley saw what LeBron said and responded to it by sending a shot in Barkley’s direction on Twitter:

I love everything LeBron James said about the hater he need to stop drinking at work. TNT can I stop by and get a drink — Charles Oakley (@CharlesOakley34) January 31, 2017

And of course, Oakley’s single tweet sent NBA Twitter into a frenzy:

So yeah. Charles Oakley definitely still hates Charles Barkley! As if we all didn’t know that already…