Jennifer Lopez Speaks Out Against Trump's Immigration Ban: 'We Are All Immigrants'
Jennifer Lopez Speaks Out Against Trump's Immigration Ban: 'We Are All Immigrants'
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Jennifer Lopez Speaks Out Against Trump's Immigration Ban: 'We Are All Immigrants'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After President Donald Trump's executive action on immigration and refugees, Jennifer Lopez took to social media to stand in solidarity with immigrants around the country with a post she captioned, "We are all immigrants." The multifaceted artist added: "Honestly, I feel like we are in a nightmare right now! In a country founded by immigrants how did immigrant become a bad word!!!" Honestly I feel like we are in a nightmare right now!! In a country founded by immigrants how did immigrant become a bad word!!! #nobannowall #unitedwestand #nomuslimban #sayingnothingissayingsomething #standup #loveistheanswer A photo posted by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on   J.Lo, who was a supporter of Hillary Clinton's during the 2016 presidential election, joins a handful of musicians who have spoken out in protest of Trump's order banning refugees and citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. -- part of which was then blocked by a federal judge in New York.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After President Donald Trump's executive action on immigration and refugees, Jennifer Lopez took to social media to stand in solidarity with immigrants around the country with a post she captioned, "We are all immigrants."

The multifaceted artist added: "Honestly, I feel like we are in a nightmare right now! In a country founded by immigrants how did immigrant become a bad word!!!"

Honestly I feel like we are in a nightmare right now!! In a country founded by immigrants how did immigrant become a bad word!!! #nobannowall #unitedwestand #nomuslimban #sayingnothingissayingsomething #standup #loveistheanswer A photo posted by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Jan 29, 2017 at 12:20pm PST

J.Lo, who was a supporter of Hillary Clinton's during the 2016 presidential election, joins a handful of musicians who have spoken out in protest of Trump's order banning refugees and citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. -- part of which was then blocked by a federal judge in New York.