Obama Attacks Trump Over His Anti-Immigration Executive Order, Supports Anti-Trump Protests Across America
Obama Attacks Trump Over His Anti-Immigration Executive Order, Supports Anti-Trump Protests Acr
Obama Attacks Trump Over His Anti-Immigration Executive Order, Supports Anti-Trump Protests Across America Former US president Barack Obama today said he disagrees discrimination over faith or religion. "With regard to comparisons to President Obama's foreign policy decisions, as we've heard before the President fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion," Obama's spokesman Kevin Lewis said in a statement. Lewis said Obama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. "In his final office speech as President. He spoke about the important role of citizen and how all Americans have a responsibility to be the guardians of our democracy - not just during an election but every day," he said. "Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organise and have their voices heard by their elected official is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake," Lewis said. Trump's executive order bars citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for the next 90 days, suspends the admission of all refugees for 120 days and indefinitely suspends the Syrian refugee programme.

Former US president Barack Obama today said he disagrees discrimination over faith or religion.

usmagazine

"With regard to comparisons to President Obama's foreign policy decisions, as we've heard before the President fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion," Obama's spokesman Kevin Lewis said in a statement.

This is the first press statement issued by the office of Barack Obama after he left the office 10 days ago.

Reuters

Lewis said Obama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. "In his final office speech as President. He spoke about the important role of citizen and how all Americans have a responsibility to be the guardians of our democracy - not just during an election but every day," he said.

"Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organise and have their voices heard by their elected official is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake," Lewis said.

Trump's executive order bars citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for the next 90 days, suspends the admission of all refugees for 120 days and indefinitely suspends the Syrian refugee programme.