'I still have your money': JK Rowling replies to Trump supporter
'I still have your money': JK Rowling replies to Trump supporter
K Rowling smacked down someone on Twitter who appeared angry at her statement about Mike Pence. The author replied to someone who said they were going to burn her books and films in response to her tweeting a Bible verse at the Vice President. They said: "Glad I caught this article on Yahoo. Now I will burn your books and movies too". And she replied: "Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter". Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter. pic.twitter.com/kVoi8VGEoK he article the angered Twitter user appeared to be referring to was one which made the rounds on social media. It described how after Mike Pence tweeted: "Calls to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. are offensive and unconstitutional", she replied: "'For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul?'  Matthew 16:26". When I worked for Amnesty International in the 80s, these were the kind of stories told by political prisoners in dictatorships. https://t.co/y7CXLQK1n0 his split opinion on social media, with many applauding her for using the Bible against a conservative Christian. Her tweet was retweeted over 31,000 times. Many celebrities have responded to Donald Trump's travel ban over the past few days. erformers including singers Sia and Grimes have matched donations to civil rights and pro-Muslim causes. Between them and their supporters, hundreds of thousands of dollars have been raised.

JK Rowling smacked down someone on Twitter who appeared angry at her statement about Mike Pence.

The author replied to someone who said they were going to burn her books and films in response to her tweeting a Bible verse at the Vice President.

They said: "Glad I caught this article on Yahoo. Now I will burn your books and movies too".

And she replied: "Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter".