Dana Boente: Who Is the New Acting Attorney General?
Dana Boente: Who Is the New Acting Attorney General?
President Donald J. Trump appointed Dana J. Boente, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to be acting attorney general on Monday night after he dismissed Sally Q. Yates from that role over her refusal to defend his executive order on immigration in court. The abrupt dismissal of Ms. Yates and the appointment of Mr. Boente were the latest twists in a fast-moving crisis over the executive order. Mr. Boente (pronounced BEN-tay) is expected to serve as acting attorney general until Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, is confirmed. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on his nomination as soon as Tuesday, which means Mr. Boente may be in his new role for a only matter of days. So, who is Mr. Boente? Mr. Boente, 62, has worked for the Justice Department since 1984 under both Republican and Democratic administrations. He served in the department’s tax division and held several positions in the Eastern District of Virginia. He also served as the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana from December 2012 to September 2013. In October 2015, Mr. Boente was nominated by President Barack Obama to be the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and was confirmed by the United States Senate that December. The district sprawls across a wide swath of the state. It covers six million people and often handles cases that touch on national security because its territory includes facilities like the Pentagon and the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency. Advertisement Before joining the Justice Department, Mr. Boente clerked for a chief United States district judge, J. Waldo Ackerman, in the Central District of Illinois in 1982. Mr. Boente may have become acting attorney general amid turmoil centered on the new Republican president, but he has been praised by members of both parties during his career. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Former Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch affectionately praised Mr. Boente last February when he was sworn in as United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. She called him one of the Justice Department’s “consummate utility players” and pointed to a string of public corruption prosecutions he lead in Virginia and Louisiana. He oversaw the prosecution of former Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican whose conviction was ultimately overturned by the Supreme Court, and of former United States Representative William J. Jefferson and former Mayor Ray Nagin of New Orleans, both Louisiana Democrats. “He is that reliable middle child, the one you could always count on to be there for you,” Ms. Lynch said, according to The Washington Post . Mr. Trump appears to have found Mr. Boente to be similarly reliable. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Alexandria, Va., said Mr. Boente had no hesitation about accepting the acting attorney general’s job, given his “seniority and loyalty” to the department. Mr. Stueve also said Mr. Boente told the White House he was willing to do something that Ms. Yates would not: sign off on Mr. Trump’s executive order. In an interview with The Washington Post on Monday night, Mr. Boente pointed out that his office had already been defending the president’s executive order against a lawsuit brought in a Virginia federal court. “I was enforcing it this afternoon,” Mr. Boente told The Post . “Our career department employees were defending the action in court, and I expect that’s what they’ll do tomorrow, appropriately and properly.” Advertisement Indeed, shortly before midnight on Monday, Mr. Boente rescinded the guidance Ms. Yates had given department lawyers earlier in the evening and formally ordered them to defend the president’s immigration ban. Eric Lichtblau contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2017, on Page A12 of the with the headline: Both Parties  Have Hailed Temporary Appointee.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

President Donald J. Trump appointed Dana J. Boente, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to be acting attorney general on Monday night after he dismissed Sally Q. Yates from that role over her refusal to defend his executive order on immigration in court. The abrupt dismissal of Ms. Yates and the appointment of Mr. Boente were the latest twists in a fast-moving crisis over the executive order.

Mr. Boente (pronounced BEN-tay) is expected to serve as acting attorney general until Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, is confirmed. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on his nomination as soon as Tuesday, which means Mr. Boente may be in his new role for a only matter of days.

So, who is Mr. Boente?

Career Civil Servant

Mr. Boente, 62, has worked for the Justice Department since 1984 under both Republican and Democratic administrations. He served in the department’s tax division and held several positions in the Eastern District of Virginia. He also served as the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana from December 2012 to September 2013.

In October 2015, Mr. Boente was nominated by President Barack Obama to be the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and was confirmed by the United States Senate that December.

The district sprawls across a wide swath of the state. It covers six million people and often handles cases that touch on national security because its territory includes facilities like the Pentagon and the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before joining the Justice Department, Mr. Boente clerked for a chief United States district judge, J. Waldo Ackerman, in the Central District of Illinois in 1982.

‘Reliable Middle Child’

Mr. Boente may have become acting attorney general amid turmoil centered on the new Republican president, but he has been praised by members of both parties during his career.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Former Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch affectionately praised Mr. Boente last February when he was sworn in as United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.

She called him one of the Justice Department’s “consummate utility players” and pointed to a string of public corruption prosecutions he lead in Virginia and Louisiana. He oversaw the prosecution of former Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican whose conviction was ultimately overturned by the Supreme Court, and of former United States Representative William J. Jefferson and former Mayor Ray Nagin of New Orleans, both Louisiana Democrats.

“He is that reliable middle child, the one you could always count on to be there for you,” Ms. Lynch said, according to The Washington Post.

‘Seniority and Loyalty’

Mr. Trump appears to have found Mr. Boente to be similarly reliable.

Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Alexandria, Va., said Mr. Boente had no hesitation about accepting the acting attorney general’s job, given his “seniority and loyalty” to the department.

Mr. Stueve also said Mr. Boente told the White House he was willing to do something that Ms. Yates would not: sign off on Mr. Trump’s executive order.

In an interview with The Washington Post on Monday night, Mr. Boente pointed out that his office had already been defending the president’s executive order against a lawsuit brought in a Virginia federal court.

“I was enforcing it this afternoon,” Mr. Boente told The Post. “Our career department employees were defending the action in court, and I expect that’s what they’ll do tomorrow, appropriately and properly.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Indeed, shortly before midnight on Monday, Mr. Boente rescinded the guidance Ms. Yates had given department lawyers earlier in the evening and formally ordered them to defend the president’s immigration ban.