'Anti-democratic and un-American': Bruce Springsteen slams 'Muslim ban'
'Anti-democratic and un-American': Bruce Springsteen slams 'Muslim ban'
Bruce Springsteen is on a long tour around Australia, but there's no way he's detached from what's going on in the U.S. The rock legend took to the stage in Adelaide, Australia, on Monday night, using a break between songs to decry the immigration restrictions placed on countries with majority Muslim population under Trump. SEE ALSO: Trump’s ‘Muslim Ban’ could have doomed Apple "Tonight, we want to add our voices to the thousands of Americans who are protesting at airports around our country. The Muslim ban and the detention of foreign nationals and refugees," he said. "America is a nation of immigrants and we find this anti-democratic and fundamentally un-American." "America is a nation of immigrants and we find this anti-democratic and fundamentally un-American." pic.twitter.com/DsXSaLeNNN — Bruce Springsteen (@springsteen) January 30, 2017 Springsteen then launched into a rendition of his song "American Land," which he described as an "immigrant song" to a rapturous crowd. Springsteen also gave props to the Women's Marches , telling an audience in Perth, Australia of his support last week. "[They] rallied against hate and division and in support of tolerance, inclusion, reproductive rights, civil rights, racial justice, LGBTQ rights, the environment, wage equality, gender equality, healthcare, and immigrant rights," he said. "We stand with you. We are the new American resistance." And that's why he's The Boss. BONUS: All 13 times the stars at the SAG Awards threw shade at Donald Trump

Bruce Springsteen is on a long tour around Australia, but there's no way he's detached from what's going on in the U.S.

The rock legend took to the stage in Adelaide, Australia, on Monday night, using a break between songs to decry the immigration restrictions placed on countries with majority Muslim population under Trump.

"Tonight, we want to add our voices to the thousands of Americans who are protesting at airports around our country. The Muslim ban and the detention of foreign nationals and refugees," he said.

"America is a nation of immigrants and we find this anti-democratic and fundamentally un-American."

"America is a nation of immigrants and we find this anti-democratic and fundamentally un-American." pic.twitter.com/DsXSaLeNNN — Bruce Springsteen (@springsteen) January 30, 2017

Springsteen then launched into a rendition of his song "American Land," which he described as an "immigrant song" to a rapturous crowd.

Springsteen also gave props to the Women's Marches, telling an audience in Perth, Australia of his support last week.

"[They] rallied against hate and division and in support of tolerance, inclusion, reproductive rights, civil rights, racial justice, LGBTQ rights, the environment, wage equality, gender equality, healthcare, and immigrant rights," he said.

"We stand with you. We are the new American resistance."

And that's why he's The Boss.