A letter to Trump with millions of signatures is updating live
A letter to Trump with millions of signatures is updating live
The world has a message for Donald Trump.Â Social activist site Avaaz posted an open letter to the U.S. president calling out his Muslim ban and other immigration policies. More than 4.5 million people from countries all over the world had signed the letter as of Tuesday afternoon. The goal is to reach 5 million. SEE ALSO: Internet points out irony of Trump screening 'Finding Dory' during #MuslimBan Signatures are coming in live from Egypt, Spain, South Africa, Brazil, New Zealand, Canada, the United States and beyond. A tracker is making it easy to see the online signatures as they come in from all over. Image: AVAAZ The letter to Trump states that the world "rejects your fear, hate-mongering, and bigotry." It goes on to denounce Trump and his "denigration of women Muslims, Mexicans and millions of others who don't look like you, talk like you, or pray to the same god as you." As it pulls in signatures every few seconds, the post is also an affirmation of hope. "Seeing your ignorance we choose understanding," it reads. This is what activism looks like in real time. BONUS: All 13 times the stars at the SAG Awards threw shade at Donald Trump

The world has a message for Donald Trump.Â

Social activist site Avaaz posted an open letter to the U.S. president calling out his Muslim ban and other immigration policies. More than 4.5 million people from countries all over the world had signed the letter as of Tuesday afternoon. The goal is to reach 5 million.

Signatures are coming in live from Egypt, Spain, South Africa, Brazil, New Zealand, Canada, the United States and beyond. A tracker is making it easy to see the online signatures as they come in from all over.

The letter to Trump states that the world "rejects your fear, hate-mongering, and bigotry." It goes on to denounce Trump and his "denigration of women Muslims, Mexicans and millions of others who don't look like you, talk like you, or pray to the same god as you."

As it pulls in signatures every few seconds, the post is also an affirmation of hope. "Seeing your ignorance we choose understanding," it reads.

This is what activism looks like in real time.