Charles Barkley laughs off LeBron James' barbs, says he'll continue to speak his mind
Barkley on LeBron barbs: 'He did his homework'
Barkley on LeBron barbs: 'He did his homework' #NBArank Rising Stars: Who made the top 50? 1 Related Is Jahlil Okafor's potential worth a big trade? Phil tweets shot at Carmelo, escalates feud Kings' Cousins will miss Celts game for 16th tech Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Warriors raising ticket prices 15 to 25 percent Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends LeBron James defies a long history of misses Vote: Are the Cavaliers better off keeping Kevin Love? Anthony Davis, Pelicans off to a roaring start as trade season begins Can Westbrook average a triple-double? He's got a 61 percent chance Tyronn Lue's memorabilia collection features items from Michael Jordan Lakers bench two highest-paid players in favor of developing young talent NBA Power Rankings: Durant's OKC return looms; Wizards' run continues Bulls' Butler remains sidelined with bruised heel Lue, LeBron see parallels in Pats, Cavs titles Twilight tales of Vince Carter, Dirk Nowitzki and Paul Pierce Charles Barkley joins Waddle & Silvy to respond to LeBron James' criticism of him, saying he doesn't have any issue but stands by his comments. (1:54) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment A day after LeBron James called him a "hater" and dug up some of his personal history, TNT analyst Charles Barkley says he stands by his criticism of the Cleveland Cavaliers ' star player. "I stick by what I said, I'm not going to make this personal. ... He was all whiny last week," Barkley said on the Waddle & Silvy show on ESPN Radio on Tuesday. "... I'm good and I'm straightforward, I'm never going to get personal on an NBA player." Last week, Barkley said James was being "whiny" for publicly saying the Cavs need to bring in another playmaker. "Inappropriate. Whiny. All of the above," Barkley said of James then. "The Cleveland Cavaliers, they have given him everything he wanted. They have the highest payroll in NBA history. He wanted J.R. Smith last summer, they paid him. He wanted [Iman] Shumpert last summer. They brought in Kyle Korver . He's [LeBron] the best player in the world. Does he want all of the good players? He don't want to compete? He is an amazing player. They're the defending champs." James, clearly irked by Barkley's comments, told ESPN's Dave McMenamin on Monday night that he won't let Barkley "disrespect my legacy like that," and took some personal shots at the Hall of Famer. "I'm not the one who threw somebody through a window. I never spit on a kid. I never had unpaid debt in Las Vegas," James told ESPN on Monday. "I never said, 'I'm not a role model.' I never showed up to All-Star Weekend on Sunday because I was in Vegas all weekend partying." When asked Tuesday whether he felt James crossed the line, Barkley said it was a case of shooting the messenger and that he had no issues with James' remarks. "I was laughing, clearly he did some homework ... he Googled me and found some things," Barkley said. "He was young when I was playing, so I appreciate that, but I'm not upset about it. ... My criticism was fair, and I'm good with that." Despite drawing the ire of one of the biggest names in the sport, Barkley said he doesn't plan to rein in his opinions. "Some of the stuff he said about me is correct -- doesn't make the message I said about him incorrect," Barkley said. "Some of them are intimidated about LeBron, [but] I'm not intimidated at all." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Charles Barkley joins Waddle & Silvy to respond to LeBron James' criticism of him, saying he doesn't have any issue but stands by his comments. (1:54)

A day after LeBron James called him a "hater" and dug up some of his personal history, TNT analyst Charles Barkley says he stands by his criticism of the Cleveland Cavaliers' star player.

"I stick by what I said, I'm not going to make this personal. ... He was all whiny last week," Barkley said on the Waddle & Silvy show on ESPN Radio on Tuesday. "... I'm good and I'm straightforward, I'm never going to get personal on an NBA player."

Editor's Picks ESPN CHICAGO AUDIO: Charles Barkley has 'no problem' with LeBron's comments Waddle & Silvy

Last week, Barkley said James was being "whiny" for publicly saying the Cavs need to bring in another playmaker.

"Inappropriate. Whiny. All of the above," Barkley said of James then. "The Cleveland Cavaliers, they have given him everything he wanted. They have the highest payroll in NBA history. He wanted J.R. Smith last summer, they paid him. He wanted [Iman] Shumpert last summer. They brought in Kyle Korver. He's [LeBron] the best player in the world. Does he want all of the good players? He don't want to compete? He is an amazing player. They're the defending champs."

James, clearly irked by Barkley's comments, told ESPN's Dave McMenamin on Monday night that he won't let Barkley "disrespect my legacy like that," and took some personal shots at the Hall of Famer.

"I'm not the one who threw somebody through a window. I never spit on a kid. I never had unpaid debt in Las Vegas," James told ESPN on Monday. "I never said, 'I'm not a role model.' I never showed up to All-Star Weekend on Sunday because I was in Vegas all weekend partying."

TNT analyst Charles Barkley laughed off LeBron James' rant directed at the Hall of Famer. Gary Dineen/NBAE via Getty Images

When asked Tuesday whether he felt James crossed the line, Barkley said it was a case of shooting the messenger and that he had no issues with James' remarks.

"I was laughing, clearly he did some homework ... he Googled me and found some things," Barkley said. "He was young when I was playing, so I appreciate that, but I'm not upset about it. ... My criticism was fair, and I'm good with that."

Despite drawing the ire of one of the biggest names in the sport, Barkley said he doesn't plan to rein in his opinions.

"Some of the stuff he said about me is correct -- doesn't make the message I said about him incorrect," Barkley said. "Some of them are intimidated about LeBron, [but] I'm not intimidated at all."