Recap: Indian Finance Minister Arun Jaitley Presents the Budget to Parliament
Recap: Indian Finance Minister Arun Jaitley Presents the Budget to Parliament
The Wall Street Journal live blogged India’s budget as Finance Minister Arun Jaitley presented his spending plans to Parliament. Catch up on the speech and our analysis below. The Budget Presentation Is on And we’re off. There were rumors this morning that Finance Minister Arun Jaitley’s presentation of the federal budget would be postponed following the death of a parliamentarian. Parliament usually adjourns for a day if a member passes away. However, as the budget-making exercise has come to an end, and key documents already printed, postponing the budget may compromise its secrecy, a government official said. The serving parliamentarian, E. Ahamed of the Congress Party, who hailed from southern state of Kerala, suffered a cardiac arrest Tuesday while attending an address by President Pranab Mukherjee. Flying Blind Making a budget is no small task in ordinary times, but it’s extra-tough when the health of the economy is uncertain. That’s been the state of affairs in India since last November’s cash cancellation, which sowed chaos for ordinary people and hurt spending and investment. In early January, government statisticians said they expected gross domestic product growth for the year ending March 31 to slow to 7.1%. But that estimate didn’t take into account the full effects of the cash replacement.       Nice Work if You Can Get It The budget will contain an important clue as to how much the government’s big cash cancellation hurt India’s informal economy. After Prime Minister Modi canceled all large bank notes in November, many employers were suddenly left with no easy way to pay their workers. That sent many people back to the farming villages they came from, where they could be with their families, live off the land—and take advantage of the government’s rural-jobs program. The Story of the Briefcase The object at the center of attention on India’s budget day is a briefcase carried by the finance minister, much like the customary red box carried by Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer. The colonial-era tradition, which went through several makeovers in form and color, has been carried forward since 1880, when James Wilson, the then Finance Member of India Council, presented the first India budget to the British parliament in London. Can Jaitley Keep Investors Happy? The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index has rallied about 20% since the last budget. However, the journey has been a rollercoaster amid the cash crunch and global political shifts. Investors want to know if the government will increase tax on long-term capital gains or extend the tax-free period from one year for equity investments. It could also tax foreign investors who have over 50% of their assets in India. Broker CLSA says any such move would impact India-dedicated funds. Trending The Right Timing Finance Minister Mr. Jaitley has tended to start his budget speeches on time so we should see him at 11 a.m. but it is unclear for how long he will speak. The budget speech tends to be between one and two hours, but this year it will include the railway budget as well so may go longer. Budget Copies Arrive in Parliament Budget Copies in Parliament ! #Budget2017  #BudgetSession  pic.twitter.com/Fl8Sl4STYq — Shivangi Thakur (@thakur_shivangi) February 1, 2017 All Perk, no Work While there was a time when the budget was used to announce reforms–lifting if restrictions on companies and consumers and redefining New Delhi’s role in the economy–for the last decade the annual budget announcement has tended to be more of a long list of new perks for different interest groups. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi looking to raise his party’s profile in the upcoming regional elections, there will likely be bunch of bonus benefits this year. Jaitley Presents Budget to President FM @arunjaitley , MoS, @arjunrammeghwal , MoS, @santoshgangwar and senior @FinMinIndia officials present #Budget2017 to #PresidentMukherjee  pic.twitter.com/0Qiahg6Jdg — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 1, 2017 No Separate Rail Budget India has ended a nearly century-old practice of presenting a separate budget for the railways by including it in the federal budget. Successive governments have spent billions of dollars to modernize the country’s vast railway network. In 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government announced it would spend $137 billion to expand railways network over the next five years. Commuters and transporters will be looking for fresh news. Narendra Modi Tweets About Late Parliamentarian's Demise Paid tributes to late Mr. E Ahamed. pic.twitter.com/DzjQvbaZ15 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) February 1, 2017 India May Cut Import Tax on Gold Gold traders are expecting India’s finance ministry to lower the import tax in the federal budget to between 4% and 6% from the current level of 10%. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise move late last year to cancel high-denomination notes hit purchases of jewelry and gold bars. India’s gold demand fell to about 650 to 750 tons last year versus 850 tons in 2015. Here's How You Can Watch the Budget Speech Live Watch the Live Stream of FM Shri @arunjaitley Budget Speech 2017-18 on the link below https://t.co/6OZPNKFknM or on https://t.co/mQZrh5sfMs — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) January 31, 2017 Support for Startups? India’s startup founders and investors will be listening for hints the government could help support the country’s burgeoning technology companies. In recent quarters some investors have started to tighten the taps and big U.S. firms like Amazon and Uber, which compete with local rivals, have been ramping up their investments in India. Industry group Nasscom says India is “maturing as a startup hub,” home to nearly 4,800 young companies. A Few Minutes' Silence Parliament is seated. The first order of business is marking the death of E. Ahamed, a lawmaker who passed away yesterday. Watch me live presenting the Union Budget 2017 at 11 am, February 1, 2017 https://t.co/BtQAlBf8Zz — Arun Jaitley (@arunjaitley) February 1, 2017 Budget Will Go Ahead Normally, the house would be adjourned for a day in the wake of a lawmaker’s death. But Sumitra Mahajan, the speaker of the house, has decided to allow the budget to be presented today. Parliament will be adjourned tomorrow instead, Ms. Mahajan says. Jaitley Rises Finance Minister Arun Jaitley begins his budget speech despite howls of protest by lawmakers. Populist Measures A long list of promises for different groups and programs are a tradition for Indian budget day speeches. Last year, India decided to spend 20 billion rupees for cooking gas for the poor. It also promised to double farmer incomes, expand irrigation and enhance credit for farmers. With crucial state elections starting Feb. 4, the government is expected to announce more spending on programs aimed to help Indians living in the country’s villages . India in a Jittery World Mr. Jaitley highlights “considerable uncertainty” in the global economy over the past year. He flags three main risks for developing countries: tighter U.S. monetary policy, uncertainty about crude-oil prices and “signs of increasing retreat from globalization.” India Still a Bright Spot Mr. Jaitley says India’s macro environment remains robust. Forex reserves are high, inflation is tame, budget deficits are under control and foreign investment is flowing in. Start with a Smile As he unveiled the latest budget, Finance Minister Mr. Jaitley is trying to focus on the success of India and the Modi administration. Not Doing Business Mr. Jaitley says international agencies have recognized India’s economic strength. Oddly, one he highlights is the World Bank’s Doing Business Report, where India’s performance remains less than enviable: It ranks 130th out of 190 countries . Demonetization: 'Obviously Disruptive' Mr. Jaitley defends the government’s cash nullification: “Like all reforms, this measure is obviously disruptive.” How Much Disruption? Mr. Jaitley says the effects of the cash cancellation won’t spill over into the next financial year, which starts April 1, saying that forecasts for India’s GDP growth next year remain strong despite the slowdown this year. Statement of Purpose Mr. Jaitley says his overall approach for this budget was to “spend more in rural areas, infrastructure and poverty alleviation” while maintaining the pace of fiscal consolidation. RBI Watching Reserve Bank of India Governor Urjit Patel will have his eyes riveted to the budget to see whether New Delhi heard the plea for healthier public finances he made earlier this month. In a January Mr. Patel noted that India’s deficit is one of the highest among G20 countries. The government kept its pledge of lowering its fiscal deficit target at 3.5% for the current budget year, and is expected to cut it further – to 3% — in the coming fiscal year. The R Word Mr. Jaitley mentions economic reforms but is quick to add they are for the benefit of the poor and underprivileged. Reforms are often seen as perks for the rich and companies. YouTubers Ask Mr. Jaitley to 'Remove Corruption' Farming for Votes As has become a sort of tradition, the finance minister is quick to outline a long list of benefits for farmers. Gandhian Vision Invoking the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Jaitley pledges to lift 10 million rural households out of poverty and make 50,000 village council regions poverty free by 2019. More Promises FM : My approach in preparing the #Budget2017 is to spend more on rural areas, infrastructure & poverty alleviation with fiscal prudence. — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 1, 2017 Whither Oil? India has been able to trim its budget deficit to 3.5% of GDP from 4.1% under Prime Minister Narendra Modi in large part due to cheap oil. His government has taken advantage of lower crude prices to increase taxes at the pump, helping this past year’s revenue from fuel duties to be an estimated 0.5 percentage point above what it was three years ago. That may soon have to change as crude prices could rise above the roughly $60 a barrel threshold below which India’s fiscal and trade deficits are able to shrink. Will the Government Increase Health Spending? India’s public-health experts will be parsing Mr. Jaitley’s speech to see if the country’s long-ignored public healthcare system gets some attention. The nation of over 1.2 billion people, many whom live in poverty, spent only 4.7% of its gross domestic product on healthcare in 2014, according to the latest data available from the World Bank. That is the lowest among the so-called BRICS countries–Brazil spent 8.3%, Russia 7.1%, China 5.5%, South Africa 8.8%– and also below the world average of about 10%. “This low spending by India has been a cause for the growing inequities, insufficient access and poor quality of healthcare services,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director of Population Foundation of India, a New Delhi-based non-profit, in a statement. “Investing in health is critical for achieving the economic development goals,” she said. Big Works Spending on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, one of the world’s largest welfare programs, is set at 480 billion rupees ($7 billion), the highest ever. Splurging on Farmers The big number for agriculture: 1.87 trillion rupees ($28 billion) in total spending this coming year, an increase of 24%, Mr. Jaitley says. Lifeline to Real-Estate Sector Mr. Jaitley is announcing perks for the real-estate sector. The sector has been hit by the government’s cash crackdown. Analysts expect the budget to give extra incentives to prospective homebuyers through tax benefits and policies to encourage the building of more affordable housing. Targets for Eradication A couple of ambitious targets for eradication from Mr. Jaitley. No leprosy by 2018, no measles by 2025 and no tuberculosis by 2025. More Bucks for Rural Employment Scheme FM @arunjaitley : #Budget2017 will see the highest ever allocation to MGNREGA scheme at 48000 crore. — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 1, 2017 The Numbers India’s current account deficit decreased from about 1% of GDP last year to 0.3% of GDP in 1st half of 2016-17. #BudgetForBetterIndia  pic.twitter.com/aXJBlA4SNY — BJP (@BJP4India) February 1, 2017 Late Train This year, Mr. Jaitley abandoned the tradition of announcing the railway budget the day before the national budget. He is now outlining big plans for the national railway network used by millions everyday. Among the plans is making hundreds of stations wheel-chair acceptable and run on solar power. He also plans to get rid of all unmanned railway crossings by 2020. Markets Muted Close to an hour into his speech, Mr. Jaitley has failed to impress the markets. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex is trading flat at 27,672.97. However, some fertilizer stocks did rise after he allocated more funds to the rural sector. Further Incentives for Foreign Investors? Mr. Jaitley is expected to announce some easing of foreign-investment rules for sectors such as single brand retailing as the government looks to garner long-term capital. At present, India allows foreign companies to fully own single-brand retail stores in the country. But, foreign investments beyond 49% must be approved by an arm of the Finance Ministry. The bureaucratic process often delays proposals, irking investors. Mr. Jaitley may scrap this requirement. The FDI limit for print media could be raised to 49% from 26%. Although successive Indian governments have opened up several sectors to greater foreign ownership, they have refrained from permitting higher investment in print news media over national security concerns. FIPB Is no More Mr. Jaitley says the Foreign Investment Promotion Board, an agency that scrutinizes foreign-investment proposals, will be abolished. Disinvestments Disappoint, Yet Again After missing the disinvestment target for several years, investors will be watching if the government sets a realistic target this time around. Each year the government has set high goals for fundraising from stake sales in state-run companies, but each year revenue has fallen significantly short. For the current year, the government has raised just about 269 billion rupees ($4 billion) from such sales so far. That’s less than half of its 565 billion rupees target for the year ending March 31. Horn OK Please Auto makers will look for steps to enhance ease of doing business, uplift consumer demand and spur economic growth and help them ride out the effects of demonetization. They are hoping for lower taxes and measures to boost rural spending. Commercial vehicle makers will be hoping for more infrastructure spending and tax breaks for the scrapping of old trucks. Green Wheels Automakers are hoping for help for producing and importing eco-friendly vehicles. The are wishing for more programs like the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric scheme introduced in 2015 to promote eco-friendly driving. Will It Make the Trains Run on Time? The big number for railway spending , in case you missed it: 1.31 trillion rupees, or $19 billion. 3,500 km railway lines to be commissioned in 2017-18 as against 2,800 km in 2016-17: FM @arunjaitley  #Budget2017 — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 1, 2017 Poverty Plans Mission #Antyodaya to bring 1 crore households out of poverty, & to make 50,000 Gram Panchayats poverty-free 1/2: FM https://t.co/gY7YQo5nsn  pic.twitter.com/OoViijuEtG — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 1, 2017 60 Minutes The budget speech has been going for an hour now. Mr. Jaitley is talking about how the government is helping people use less cash. More Protectionism? #Budget2017 FIPB abolition shows India more open to FDI countering trend towards more protectionism. Way to go — R Jagannathan (@TheJaggi) February 1, 2017 The Bottom Line Total spending in the coming fiscal year comes in at 21 trillion rupees, or $311 billion, Mr. Jaitley says. Belt-Tightening Continues Mr. Jaitley is setting this year’s budget deficit at 3.2% of gross domestic product, with a commitment of 3% the year after. That keeps the government on its path of fiscal consolidation, though at a slightly slower pace than previously anticipated. The 10 Commandments FM @arunjaitley presents #Budget2017 under ten themes https://t.co/gY7YQo5nsn  pic.twitter.com/P7WRyUEGaA — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 1, 2017 No Laughing Matter Laughter as Mr. Jaitley says he is moving on to taxation and takes a pause to drink a sip of water. 'Tax-Non-Compliant Society' Mr. Jaitley is rattling off the figures for income declared by Indians in their tax returns. Given how few people declare high incomes, and how many cars are sold and trips abroad taken, Mr. Jaitley concludes that “we are largely a tax-non-compliant society.” Tax Takings Mr. Jaitley says net tax revenue is up 17% for the second consecutive financial year. Cash Haul Mr. Jaitley outlined the surprising amount of cash that was deposited by some people after the country’s cash crackdown. He said that in the period from the day when the withdrawal of 86% of the country’s bank notes was announced to the end of last year, close to 11 million accounts got cash deposits between 200,000 rupees (more than the average annual salary of most Indians) and 8 million rupees. He said 148,000 accounts got deposits of more than 8 million rupees, each averaging about 33 million rupees. Lower Corporate Tax for Small Businesses Following through on a promise from 2015, Mr. Jaitley lowers the corporate tax rate to 25% for small companies. Bigger Bomb Budget The budget is expected to continue to increase spending on military modernization and local arms manufacturing. With tensions at India’s borders, the defense budget could rise 10%, Angel Broking estimates. On the Defense Mr. Jaitley said he has budgeted 2.74 trillion rupees for defense spending for the next financial year. That includes 864.88 billion rupees for capital expenditure. Cash Rules Mr. Jaitley proposes to disallow cash transactions above 300,000 rupees. Cleaning Up Political Finance To cleanse political finance in India, Mr. Jaitley proposes a 2,000-rupee ($30) ceiling on cash donations to political parties, down significantly from the 20,000-rupee limit today. That could help reduce the amount of anonymous funding that parties receive. Poetry on Corruption “This is a new world, a new moment, new aspirations.” – Arun Jaitley, India’s Finance Minsiter Party On Politicians bang benches in the house as Mr. Jaitley proposes changes to party donation rules. War on Offenders FM #BudgetforBetterIndia : Will enact law to confiscate assets of those offenders including economic offenders fleeing the reach of law. — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 1, 2017 Give and Take Mr. Jaitley lowers the personal income-tax rate to 5% from 10% for India’s poorest taxpayers (those who earn between 250,000 and 500,000 rupees a year), but levies an extra tax surcharge for the middle class (those who earn between 5 million to 10 million rupees a year). Rapid Reaction The speech hasn’t ended but some professional budget watcher are already responding to what they’ve heard. Vice president of Moody’s Investors Service’s sovereign risk group, William Foster, just emailed journalists the following points among others: “This year’s budget marks a continuation of the government’s fiscal objectives and policies.” “The budget speech’s emphasis on fiscal prudence indicates that continued commitment to gradual fiscal consolidation remains. The focus on investment in infrastructure was expected and in line with previous policy direction. “ In Closing Mr. Jaitley concludes with some light verse. The speech clocked in at nearly two hours. Healthcare Promises #Budget2017 : #Healthcare  pic.twitter.com/BZzR1lHvW5 — MIB India (@MIB_India) February 1, 2017 Budget x Bollywood = Tomorrow's Papers How do you spice up a deadly dry document like the budget? Coat it in a spicy masala of ridiculous puns and graphics. It is an annual tradition at the business newspapers to try to outdo each other with some over-the-top theme and a lot of photoshopping. This year we could see some election, Trump and cash-crunch themed headlines that will make little sense. Twitter Reactions No big surprises in #Budget2017 .Some good corrective steps though but people who stood in lines during demonetisation were expecting more. — Sudhir Chaudhary (@sudhirchaudhary) February 1, 2017 Markets Up Markets rose as the finance minister ended his budget speech. Banks and real estate stocks are leading the gains after Mr. Jaitley announced measures that could boost the housing sector. Investors are likely relieved that he didn’t announce any changes to the capital gains tax. The benchmark Sensex index is up 0.6% at 27816.27. Railways will focus on 4 major areas 1. Passenger safety 2. Capital and development work 3. Cleanliness 4. Financial and accounting reforms — Ministry of Railways (@RailMinIndia) February 1, 2017 Needs Some Spice Mr. Modi’s government has delivered another budget without the big bang reforms some had once hoped he would bring. The many talking heads on Indian television stations are calling the budget “balanced” but they would be more accurate if they called it bland. The fine print may contain some surprises but it looks as if New Delhi has delivered another budget full of tiny tinkers and not the bold moves the country requires if it wants to spark the decades of strong growth it needs to bring all of its people out of poverty. Modi: 'Perfect' Budget The FM has presented an ‘Uttam’ Budget, devoted to strengthening the hands of the poor: PM @narendramodi  #BudgetForBetterIndia — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 1, 2017 That's a Wrap Keep reading India Real Time for analysis and insights from South Asia. Arun Jaitley Economy India India Budget 2017 narendra modi     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print

Flying Blind

Making a budget is no small task in ordinary times, but it’s extra-tough when the health of the economy is uncertain.

That’s been the state of affairs in India since last November’s cash cancellation, which sowed chaos for ordinary people and hurt spending and investment.

In early January, government statisticians said they expected gross domestic product growth for the year ending March 31 to slow to 7.1%.

But that estimate didn’t take into account the full effects of the cash replacement.