Premier League ins and outs from the transfer window – how did your club do?

Arsenal For Arsène Wenger it has been more important to get players out of the treatment room and into contention for selection than to have made any inroads in the mid-season market. There was never any chance of him making a major signing and he has been happier to see Danny Welbeck and Per Mertesacker come back from long-term injuries. With a practically clean bill of health, Wenger has options aplenty for the business months of the season.  Hednesford Town £40,000  Go Ahead Eagles loan; Brighton & Hove Albion loan; Rangers loan; VVV-Venlo loan; Stevenage loan; Charlton loan; Notts County loan; Luton loan; Birmingham City loan Bournemouth Eddie Howe warded off interest in the strikers Callum Wilson and Benik Afobe but was unable to prevent his defence from being weakened when Chelsea put an end to Nathan Aké’s loan. Bournemouth offered to buy the Dutchman to no avail. Chelsea also refused to do a deal for the goalkeeper Asmir Begovic. Howe must delve into the squad he had before January even though the heavy defeat by Millwall in the FA Cup suggested they may not be as strong as thought.  Sheffield United £1m  Brighton & Hove Albion £3m; Chelsea loan recall; Rangers loan; Aldershot Town loan; released; Torquay loan; Eastbourne Borough loan; Reading loan; Leyton Orient loan; Gillingham loan; Gillingham loan; West Brom loan Burnley Burnley spent £18m on deadline day to bring in Robbie Brady from Norwich City and Ashley Westwood from Aston Villa, having missed out on Robert Snodgrass. Those moves followed the re-signing of Joey Barton, who has already proved useful in spite of the possibility of a Football Association ban for gambling. Sean Dyche sold Danny Lafferty to Sheffield United and Lukas Jutkiewicz to Birmingham City, and allowed Chris Long to join Bolton Wanderers on loan.  Norwich City £13m; Aston Villa £5m; unattached  Sheffield United £50,000; loan ended; Bolton Wanderers loan; Lincoln City loan; Morecambe loan; Salford City loan Chelsea Chelsea ended up shedding more experienced players than even they had probably anticipated, with Mikel John Obi and Branislav Ivanovic curtailing glittering spells at Stamford Bridge, and the £58m offered by Shanghai SIPG for Oscar simply too good to turn down for both club and player. Nathan Aké returned from his loan at Bournemouth and will have a role to play but late interest in Moussa Dembélé, Sead Kolasinac and Craig Gordon came to nothing. Antonio Conte has said he is happy with the make-up of his squad and the bigger spending can wait. This team will be major players in the summer market.  Bournemouth loan recall; Real Betis loan recall  Shanghai SIPG £58m;  Middlesbrough £6m; Tianjin Teda free; Zenit St Petersburg Town free Swindon Town undisclosed; Charlton Athletic loan; PSV Eindhoven loan; Huddersfield Town loan; Swindon Town loan; Swindon Town loan; Swindon Town loan; Brighton & Hove Albion loan; Vitesse Arnhem loan; Zenit St Petersburg £3m Crystal Palace Sam Allardyce had pinpointed this window as key to Palace’s survival and, with results dismal up to the deadline, his judgment has been backed by the club’s owners. Patrick van Aanholt (£10m) and Jeffrey Schlupp (£9m) offer much needed balance on the left, even if neither is a natural left-back, and the frantic deals pursued on deadline day reflected the manager’s desire to add athleticism to the squad.  Olympiakos £11m; Sunderland £10.2m;  Leicester City £9m; Liverpool loan; Brentford loan recall  Shrewsbury Town loan; Northampton Town loan; Northampton Town loan; Reading loan Everton Two important, expensive signings in Morgan Schneiderlin and Ademola Lookman improved Ronald Koeman’s mood in a month that started with the Everton manager turning on the board and possibly the director of football, Steve Walsh, over a lack of recruits. Not that they were to blame for the FA Cup defeat by Leicester City that prompted Koeman’s outburst. The Everton manager had hoped for more – a new central defender and striker were on his wish-list – but, with a substantial amount of deadwood cleared, it was a productive window by January standards.   Manchester United £20m; Charlton Athletic £10m; Wolfsburg loan  Sunderland £5m;  Sunderland £2.5m; West Ham undisclosed; Watford loan; Hull City loan; Barnsley loan; Morecambe loan; Milan loan; Motherwell loan; Preston North End loan; Southport loan; Doncaster loan; Wigan loan; Oxford loan; Grimsby loan Hull City Robert Snodgrass’s departure to West Ham represents a significant blow to Hull’s survival chances – anyone who thinks the Scotland winger is not that special has evidently not seen him play this season – and Jake Livermore’s move to West Brom hardly helped the cause either. And yet … Marco Silva built a reputation for working miracles with free transfers, loans and discards in Portugal and Greece so it will be fascinating to see how Evandro and co adapt to their new habitat. And at least Silva has been able to keep hold of the left-back Andrew Robertson.  Rennes £7m; AZ Alkmaar £4.5m; Porto £1.1m; Everton loan; Olympiakos loan;  Liverpool loan; Internazionale loan; Villarreal loan  West Ham £10.2m; West Brom £10m; Accrington Stanley loan; Accrington Stanley loan; Cardiff City loan; York City loan; Wigan loan; Wigan loan Leicester City A frustrating month for Leicester on and off the field. Wilfred Ndidi arrived from Genk in a £15m deal that was approved before the window opened but Leicester secured only one further signing, the central defender Molla Wagué, whose loan from Udinese was confirmed around an hour before the deadline. Significantly, the Premier League champions missed out on signing Middlesbrough’s Gastón Ramírez. The main talking point, though, was Leonardo Ulloa’s threat to go on strike after Sunderland’s offers were rejected.  KRC Genk £15m; Udinese loan   Crystal Palace £9m; Málaga £1.6m; MK Dons loan; Barnsley loan; Barnsley loan Liverpool Jürgen Klopp had warned it would be a quiet January on the not unreasonable basis that his leading targets to improve Liverpool – Borussia Dortmund’s Christian Pulisic, for example – were not available. The manager was praised for his careful, long-term transfer strategy when his team were swotting aside allcomers in the first half of the season. With momentum suddenly checked this month, and Liverpool’s squad struggling to compensate for the loss of Sadio Mané or Joël Matip, that approach has attracted fierce criticism. Klopp insists the lack of incoming players was not for the want of trying.  Port Vale loan recall  Reading £3.8m; Fleetwood £50,000; Go Ahead Eagles loan;  Hull City loan; Fleetwood Town loan Manchester City Pep Guardiola would have loved to have acquired a full-back on either flank or even one of each and strengthened in central defence. Instead, in the quietest of windows for City, their best bit of business is something that did not happen: Tosin Adarabioyo, who has six months remaining on his terms will not leave and there is confidence the 19-year-old defender will agree a new deal. Expect the summer to be the time when Guardiola makes serious moves in the market.  Palmeiras £27m  Colorado Rapids £490,000; Doncaster £40,000; Fleetwood Town free; Girona loan; Girona loan; NAC Breda loan; Hellas Verona loan; St Mirren loan; Chesterfield loan Manchester United The winter window came and went and Bastian Schweinsteiger remained at the club. After being frozen out, the German is back in the Premier League and Europa League squads. José Mourinho allowed Morgan Schneiderlin to move to Everton and Memphis Depay to Lyon. To the manager’s delight Ashley Young remained despite the forward considering his future and Wayne Rooney is also staying. Regarding the latter, it would be a surprise if he is still at Old Trafford by the close of the summer transfer window.  Belenenses loan recall  Everton £20m; Lyon £14.8m; Queens Park Rangers £500,000; Aston Villa loan; Sheffield United loan Middlesbrough Oh, dear. Aitor Karanka is a deeply unhappy bunny, minded to hurl his toys out of the pram after his board’s failure to sign his principal targets, Robert Snodgrass, Jesé and Bojan Krkic. How will the relationship with Steve Gibson, the club’s owner, that Karanka has always termed “amazing” and Neil Bausor, the chief executive, unfold now? With the signings Rudy Gestede, Patrick Bamford and Adlène Guedioura surely destined to be more squad players than assured starters, the manager’s only consolation is keeping the unsettled Gastón Ramírez out of Leicester City’s clutches.  Aston Villa £6m; Chelsea £6m;  Watford £4m; Ilves Tampere £170,000  Derby £2.5m; Birmingham £1m; Empoli £860,000; Bristol Rovers £60,000; Shrewsbury free; Rochdale undisclosed; Derby loan; Rayo Vallecano loan; Real Oviedo loan; Crewe loan Southampton Saints’ biggest problem has been wastefulness in front of goal, especially since Charlie Austin dislocated his shoulder in December. The club addressed that on deadline day by landing Manolo Gabbiadini from Napoli. Defensively, the performances of Maya Yoshida and Jack Stephens over the past month suggest Southampton can cope at the back despite the sale of José Fonte to West Ham, particularly as they held on to the jewel in their crown, Virgil van Dijk.  Napoli £14m; Nice loan  West Ham £8m; Walsall loan; Wycombe loan Stoke City The saga is over. Saido Berahino, who had been on Stoke’s radar for more than 12 months, finally moved to the Potteries in a £12m deal. Stoke hope Berahino will become a 20-goal-a-season striker and solve what has long been a problematic position for them. They also tied up a permanent deal for the goalkeeper Lee Grant. Bojan Krkic, who has been out of form, was the one high-profile departure.  West Brom £12m; Derby County £1.3m  Wigan Athletic loan; Bristol Rovers loan; Wrexham loan; Rochdale loan; released; Heart of Midlothian loan; Mainz loan; Albacete undisclosed; Carlisle loan Sunderland Well, at least David Moyes kept Jermain Defoe. That represents the principal consolation at the end of a window in which Moyes upped Sunderland’s contingent of players with whom he previously worked at Everton and Manchester United to 10. Not that Wearsiders exactly had the bunting out to greet Joleon Lescott, Darron Gibson and Bryan Oviedo. If the money Crystal Palace paid for Patrick van Aanholt – a left-back who cannot defend – seems too good to turn down, Van Aanholt was pretty useful going forward and may be missed. With Victor Anichebe injured, the biggest disappointment was the failure to sign a new attacking partner for Defoe.  Everton £5m; Everton £2.5m; unattached  Crystal Palace £10.2m; Hartlepool loan; Bury loan Swansea City Desperate for new faces to boost their survival hopes, Swansea have enjoyed a productive window. Tom Carroll, who joined from Tottenham, was excellent on his debut in the win over Liverpool. Martin Olsson is an upgrade at left-back, Luciano Narsingh should offer more of a threat on the flank and Jordan Ayew will provide options across the front once he returns from the Africa Cup of Nations. The one negative for the new manager, Paul Clement, is the failure to bring in a new centre-back.   Tottenham Hotspur £5m; PSV Eindhoven £4m; Norwich City £4m; Aston Villa £5m plus Neil Taylor  Blackburn loan; Aston Villa swap deal; Leeds United loan; Barnsley undisclosed; Yeovil Town loan Tottenham Hotspur Mauricio Pochettino was clear and consistent from the first day of January. Tottenham, he said, would be open to doing business if something attractive came up and it represented an upgrade but if there was nothing, then so be it. There was nothing. The manager raised £5m from the sale of the midfielder Tom Carroll to Swansea and he loaned out a couple of youngsters but he will push on with the players in whom he has invested great trust.   Swansea City £5m; Stevenage loan; Yeovil Town loan; Stevenage loan; Atlanta United loan; Southend United loan Watford The further the team’s form has plummeted in the past two months, the more muddled their play has looked but Walter Mazzarri seems to have decided that the main way to improve that was to sign a prolific striker. M’Baye Niang does not fit that bill yet, which is why Milan let him go to Vicarage Road, but he certainly has rich potential and, if he fulfils it, will carry more of a threat than Odion Ighalo, whose move to China was confirmed on deadline day. Costel Pantilimon’s injury in the FA Cup defeat at Millwall meant goalkeeper was a position that needed reinforcing, too. Central defence still looks a little brittle. The other notable departure yesterday was Adlène Guedioura to Middlesbrough.  Fiorentina £2.3m; Everton loan; Milan loan  Changchun Yatai £17.1m; Middlesbrough £4m; Málaga loan; Willem ll loan; Wycombe Wanderers loan; Birmingham City loan; Coventry loan West Brom It was a frustrating transfer window for Tony Pulis, who suggested he was a victim of his own success because Albion’s lofty league position made it difficult to find players who could be classed as upgrades. Finally selling Saido Berahino was, at least, in the best interests of all concerned but Albion needed to recruit a potent striker to make a big difference to their campaign. Pulis explored many striking options but was not able to secure any of his targets, nor was he able to add another wide player to his team’s armoury. Jake Livermore is a positive signing but hardly a transformative one.  Hull City £10m; Marc Wilson Bournemouth loan   Stoke City £12m; Sheffield Wednesday loan; Birmingham City loan; Shrewsbury Town loan; Yeovil Town loan; Notts County loan West Ham United The window was dominated by the Dimitri Payet saga, with the unsettled French midfielder finally getting his move back to Marseille when a £25m fee was agreed for him on Sunday. Robert Snodgrass has arrived from Hull City to fill the creative void left by Payet’s departure, while Angelo Ogbonna’s knee injury necessitated a move for the Southampton centre-back José Fonte. But interest in the Brentford striker Scott Hogan waned and West Ham have still not resolved their weakness at right-back.  Hull City £10.2m; Southampton £8m; Everton undisclosed  Marseille £25m; Charlton Athletic £500,000; Peterborough United loan; Hampton & Richmond Borough loan; Cheltenham Town loan; loan recall; Wigan Athletic loan; Oxford United loan; Reading loan Topics  Transfer window   Arsenal   Bournemouth   Burnley   Crystal Palace     Everton   Hull City   Leicester City   Liverpool   Manchester City   Manchester United   Middlesbrough   Southampton   Stoke City   Sunderland   Tottenham Hotspur   Watford   West Bromwich Albion   West Ham United

Arsenal

For Arsène Wenger it has been more important to get players out of the treatment room and into contention for selection than to have made any inroads in the mid-season market. There was never any chance of him making a major signing and he has been happier to see Danny Welbeck and Per Mertesacker come back from long-term injuries. With a practically clean bill of health, Wenger has options aplenty for the business months of the season. David Hytner

In Cohen Bramall Hednesford Town £40,000



Out Dan Crowley Go Ahead Eagles loan; Chuba Akpom Brighton & Hove Albion loan; Jon Toral Rangers loan; Gedion Zelalem VVV-Venlo loan; Kaylen Hinds Stevenage loan; Stephy Mavididi Charlton loan; Marc Bola Notts County loan; Matt Macey Luton loan; Krystian Bielik Birmingham City loan

David Squires on … the January 2017 transfer window Read more

Bournemouth

Eddie Howe warded off interest in the strikers Callum Wilson and Benik Afobe but was unable to prevent his defence from being weakened when Chelsea put an end to Nathan Aké’s loan. Bournemouth offered to buy the Dutchman to no avail. Chelsea also refused to do a deal for the goalkeeper Asmir Begovic. Howe must delve into the squad he had before January even though the heavy defeat by Millwall in the FA Cup suggested they may not be as strong as thought. Paul Doyle

In Aaron Ramsdale Sheffield United £1m

Out Glenn Murray Brighton & Hove Albion £3m; Nathan Aké Chelsea loan recall; Emerson Hyndman Rangers loan; Callum Buckley Aldershot Town loan; Brandon Goodship released; Jordan Lee Torquay loan; Shaun Hobson Eastbourne Borough loan; Lewis Grabban Reading loan; Jordan Green Leyton Orient loan; Joe Quigley Gillingham loan; Harry Cornick Gillingham loan; Marc Wilson West Brom loan

Burnley

Burnley spent £18m on deadline day to bring in Robbie Brady from Norwich City and Ashley Westwood from Aston Villa, having missed out on Robert Snodgrass. Those moves followed the re-signing of Joey Barton, who has already proved useful in spite of the possibility of a Football Association ban for gambling. Sean Dyche sold Danny Lafferty to Sheffield United and Lukas Jutkiewicz to Birmingham City, and allowed Chris Long to join Bolton Wanderers on loan. Paul Wilson

In Robbie Brady Norwich City £13m; Ashley Westwood Aston Villa £5m; Joey Barton unattached



Out Danny Lafferty Sheffield United £50,000; Patrick Bamford loan ended; Chris Long Bolton Wanderers loan; Josh Ginnelly Lincoln City loan; Alex Whitmore Morecambe loan; George Green Salford City loan

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Joey Barton’s return to Burnley has been a success, with the midfielder scoring the winner against Southampton. Photograph: Jan Kruger/Getty Images

Chelsea

Chelsea ended up shedding more experienced players than even they had probably anticipated, with Mikel John Obi and Branislav Ivanovic curtailing glittering spells at Stamford Bridge, and the £58m offered by Shanghai SIPG for Oscar simply too good to turn down for both club and player. Nathan Aké returned from his loan at Bournemouth and will have a role to play but late interest in Moussa Dembélé, Sead Kolasinac and Craig Gordon came to nothing. Antonio Conte has said he is happy with the make-up of his squad and the bigger spending can wait. This team will be major players in the summer market. Dominic Fifield

In Nathan Aké Bournemouth loan recall; Charles Musonda Real Betis loan recall

Out Oscar Shanghai SIPG £58m; Patrick Bamford Middlesbrough £6m; Mikel John Obi Tianjin Teda free; Branislav Ivanovic Zenit St Petersburg Town free Dion Conroy Swindon Town undisclosed; Jay Dasilva Charlton Athletic loan; Marco van Ginkel PSV Eindhoven loan; Isaiah Brown Huddersfield Town loan; Fankaty Dabo Swindon Town loan; Charlie Colkett Swindon Town loan; Islam Feruz Swindon Town loan; Fikayo Tomori Brighton & Hove Albion loan; Mukhtar Ali Vitesse Arnhem loan; Branislav Ivanovic Zenit St Petersburg £3m

Crystal Palace secure deals for Mamadou Sakho and Luka Milivojevic Read more

Crystal Palace

Sam Allardyce had pinpointed this window as key to Palace’s survival and, with results dismal up to the deadline, his judgment has been backed by the club’s owners. Patrick van Aanholt (£10m) and Jeffrey Schlupp (£9m) offer much needed balance on the left, even if neither is a natural left-back, and the frantic deals pursued on deadline day reflected the manager’s desire to add athleticism to the squad. Dominic Fifield

In Luka Milivojevic Olympiakos £11m; Patrick van Aanholt Sunderland £10.2m; Jeffrey Schlupp Leicester City £9m; Mamadou Sakho Liverpool loan; Sullay Kaikai Brentford loan recall

Out Freddie Ladapo Shrewsbury Town loan; Keshi Anderson Northampton Town loan; Hiram Boateng Northampton Town loan; Jordon Mutch Reading loan

Everton

Two important, expensive signings in Morgan Schneiderlin and Ademola Lookman improved Ronald Koeman’s mood in a month that started with the Everton manager turning on the board and possibly the director of football, Steve Walsh, over a lack of recruits. Not that they were to blame for the FA Cup defeat by Leicester City that prompted Koeman’s outburst. The Everton manager had hoped for more – a new central defender and striker were on his wish-list – but, with a substantial amount of deadwood cleared, it was a productive window by January standards. Andy Hunter

In Morgan Schneiderlin Manchester United £20m; Ademola Lookman Charlton Athletic £10m; Anton Donkor Wolfsburg loan



Out Bryan Oviedo Sunderland £5m; Darron Gibson Sunderland £2.5m; Nathan Holland West Ham undisclosed; Tom Cleverley Watford loan; Oumar Niasse Hull City loan; Gethin Jones Barnsley loan; Antony Evans Morecambe loan; Gerard Deulofeu Milan loan; Russell Griffiths Motherwell loan; Tyias Browning Preston North End loan; Delial Brewster Southport loan; Conor Grant Doncaster loan; Callum Connolly Wigan loan; Conor McAleny Oxford loan; Calum Dyson Grimsby loan

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Ronald Koeman congratulates January signing Ademola Lookman after his goal against Manchester City. Photograph: Peter Powell/EPA

Hull City

Robert Snodgrass’s departure to West Ham represents a significant blow to Hull’s survival chances – anyone who thinks the Scotland winger is not that special has evidently not seen him play this season – and Jake Livermore’s move to West Brom hardly helped the cause either. And yet … Marco Silva built a reputation for working miracles with free transfers, loans and discards in Portugal and Greece so it will be fascinating to see how Evandro and co adapt to their new habitat. And at least Silva has been able to keep hold of the left-back Andrew Robertson. Louise Taylor

In Kamil Grosicki Rennes £7m; Markus Henriksen AZ Alkmaar £4.5m; Evandro Porto £1.1m; Oumar Niasse Everton loan; Omar Elabdellaoui Olympiakos loan; Lazar Markovic Liverpool loan; Andrea Ranocchia Internazionale loan; Alfred N’Diaye Villarreal loan



Out Robert Snodgrass West Ham £10.2m; Jake Livermore West Brom £10m; Harvey Rodgers Accrington Stanley loan; Jonathan Edwards Accrington Stanley loan; Allan McGregor Cardiff City loan; Johan Ter Horst York City loan; Alex Bruce Wigan loan; James Weir Wigan loan

Leicester City

A frustrating month for Leicester on and off the field. Wilfred Ndidi arrived from Genk in a £15m deal that was approved before the window opened but Leicester secured only one further signing, the central defender Molla Wagué, whose loan from Udinese was confirmed around an hour before the deadline. Significantly, the Premier League champions missed out on signing Middlesbrough’s Gastón Ramírez. The main talking point, though, was Leonardo Ulloa’s threat to go on strike after Sunderland’s offers were rejected. Stuart James

In Wilfred Ndidi KRC Genk £15m; Molla Wagué Udinese loan



Out Jeffrey Schlupp Crystal Palace £9m; Luis Hernández Málaga £1.6m; Harvey Barnes MK Dons loan; Matty James Barnsley loan; Callum Elder Barnsley loan

Liverpool

Jürgen Klopp had warned it would be a quiet January on the not unreasonable basis that his leading targets to improve Liverpool – Borussia Dortmund’s Christian Pulisic, for example – were not available. The manager was praised for his careful, long-term transfer strategy when his team were swotting aside allcomers in the first half of the season. With momentum suddenly checked this month, and Liverpool’s squad struggling to compensate for the loss of Sadio Mané or Joël Matip, that approach has attracted fierce criticism. Klopp insists the lack of incoming players was not for the want of trying. Andy Hunter

In Sam Hart Port Vale loan recall



Out Tiago Ilori Reading £3.8m; Joe Maguire Fleetwood £50,000; Pedro Chirivella Go Ahead Eagles loan; Lazar Markovic Hull City loan; Cameron Brannagan Fleetwood Town loan

Manchester City

Pep Guardiola would have loved to have acquired a full-back on either flank or even one of each and strengthened in central defence. Instead, in the quietest of windows for City, their best bit of business is something that did not happen: Tosin Adarabioyo, who has six months remaining on his terms will not leave and there is confidence the 19-year-old defender will agree a new deal. Expect the summer to be the time when Guardiola makes serious moves in the market. Jamie Jackson

In Gabriel Jesus Palmeiras £27m



Out Bismark Adjei-Boateng Colorado Rapids £490,000; Ian Lawlor Doncaster £40,000; George Glendon Fleetwood Town free; Pablo Maffeo Girona loan; Angelino Girona loan; Manu García NAC Breda loan; Bruno Zuculini Hellas Verona loan; Billy O’Brien St Mirren loan; David Faupala Chesterfield loan

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gabriel Jesus was the only signing made by either Manchester club in the January window. Photograph: Alex Livesey/Getty Images

Manchester United

The winter window came and went and Bastian Schweinsteiger remained at the club. After being frozen out, the German is back in the Premier League and Europa League squads. José Mourinho allowed Morgan Schneiderlin to move to Everton and Memphis Depay to Lyon. To the manager’s delight Ashley Young remained despite the forward considering his future and Wayne Rooney is also staying. Regarding the latter, it would be a surprise if he is still at Old Trafford by the close of the summer transfer window. Jamie Jackson

In Joel Castro Pereira Belenenses loan recall



Out Morgan Schneiderlin Everton £20m; Memphis Depay Lyon £14.8m; Sean Goss Queens Park Rangers £500,000; Sam Johnstone Aston Villa loan; Joe Riley Sheffield United loan

Middlesbrough

Oh, dear. Aitor Karanka is a deeply unhappy bunny, minded to hurl his toys out of the pram after his board’s failure to sign his principal targets, Robert Snodgrass, Jesé and Bojan Krkic. How will the relationship with Steve Gibson, the club’s owner, that Karanka has always termed “amazing” and Neil Bausor, the chief executive, unfold now? With the signings Rudy Gestede, Patrick Bamford and Adlène Guedioura surely destined to be more squad players than assured starters, the manager’s only consolation is keeping the unsettled Gastón Ramírez out of Leicester City’s clutches. Louise Taylor

In Rudy Gestede Aston Villa £6m; Patrick Bamford Chelsea £6m; Adlène Guedioura Watford £4m; Mikael Soisalo Ilves Tampere £170,000

Out David Nugent Derby £2.5m; Emilio Nsue Birmingham £1m; Arnel Jakupovic Empoli £860,000; Jonny Burn Bristol Rovers £60,000; Bryn Morris Shrewsbury free; Mark Kitching Rochdale undisclosed; Julien De Sart Derby loan; Tomás Mejías Rayo Vallecano loan; Carlos de Pena Real Oviedo loan; Callum Cooke Crewe loan

Southampton

Saints’ biggest problem has been wastefulness in front of goal, especially since Charlie Austin dislocated his shoulder in December. The club addressed that on deadline day by landing Manolo Gabbiadini from Napoli. Defensively, the performances of Maya Yoshida and Jack Stephens over the past month suggest Southampton can cope at the back despite the sale of José Fonte to West Ham, particularly as they held on to the jewel in their crown, Virgil van Dijk. Paul Doyle

In Manolo Gabbiadini Napoli £14m; Mouez Hassen Nice loan

Out José Fonte West Ham £8m; Jason McCarthy Walsall loan; Dominic Gape Wycombe loan

Stoke City

The saga is over. Saido Berahino, who had been on Stoke’s radar for more than 12 months, finally moved to the Potteries in a £12m deal. Stoke hope Berahino will become a 20-goal-a-season striker and solve what has long been a problematic position for them. They also tied up a permanent deal for the goalkeeper Lee Grant. Bojan Krkic, who has been out of form, was the one high-profile departure. Stuart James

In Saido Berahino West Brom £12m; Lee Grant Derby County £1.3m



Out Jakob Haugaard Wigan Athletic loan; Ryan Sweeney Bristol Rovers loan; Ollie Shenton Wrexham loan; Joel Taylor Rochdale loan; Dionatan Teixeira released; Moha El Ouriachi Heart of Midlothian loan; Bojan Krkic Mainz loan; Sergio Molina Albacete undisclosed; George Waring Carlisle loan

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Saido Berahino was Stoke’s only major signing in January. Photograph: Nick Potts/PA

Sunderland

Well, at least David Moyes kept Jermain Defoe. That represents the principal consolation at the end of a window in which Moyes upped Sunderland’s contingent of players with whom he previously worked at Everton and Manchester United to 10. Not that Wearsiders exactly had the bunting out to greet Joleon Lescott, Darron Gibson and Bryan Oviedo. If the money Crystal Palace paid for Patrick van Aanholt – a left-back who cannot defend – seems too good to turn down, Van Aanholt was pretty useful going forward and may be missed. With Victor Anichebe injured, the biggest disappointment was the failure to sign a new attacking partner for Defoe. Louise Taylor

In Bryan Oviedo Everton £5m; Darron Gibson Everton £2.5m; Joleon Lescott unattached



Out Patrick van Aanholt Crystal Palace £10.2m; Andrew Nelson Hartlepool loan; Tom Beadling Bury loan

Swansea City

Desperate for new faces to boost their survival hopes, Swansea have enjoyed a productive window. Tom Carroll, who joined from Tottenham, was excellent on his debut in the win over Liverpool. Martin Olsson is an upgrade at left-back, Luciano Narsingh should offer more of a threat on the flank and Jordan Ayew will provide options across the front once he returns from the Africa Cup of Nations. The one negative for the new manager, Paul Clement, is the failure to bring in a new centre-back. Stuart James

In Tom Carroll Tottenham Hotspur £5m; Luciano Narsingh PSV Eindhoven £4m; Martin Olsson Norwich City £4m; Jordan Ayew Aston Villa £5m plus Neil Taylor

Out Marvin Emnes Blackburn loan; Neil Taylor Aston Villa swap deal; Modou Barrow Leeds United loan; Ryan Hedges Barnsley undisclosed; Owain Jones Yeovil Town loan

Tottenham Hotspur

Mauricio Pochettino was clear and consistent from the first day of January. Tottenham, he said, would be open to doing business if something attractive came up and it represented an upgrade but if there was nothing, then so be it. There was nothing. The manager raised £5m from the sale of the midfielder Tom Carroll to Swansea and he loaned out a couple of youngsters but he will push on with the players in whom he has invested great trust. David Hytner

In None

Out Tom Carroll Swansea City £5m; Ryan Loft Stevenage loan; Shayon Harrison Yeovil Town loan; Connor Ogilvie Stevenage loan; Anton Walkes Atlanta United loan; Luke Amos Southend United loan

Watford

The further the team’s form has plummeted in the past two months, the more muddled their play has looked but Walter Mazzarri seems to have decided that the main way to improve that was to sign a prolific striker. M’Baye Niang does not fit that bill yet, which is why Milan let him go to Vicarage Road, but he certainly has rich potential and, if he fulfils it, will carry more of a threat than Odion Ighalo, whose move to China was confirmed on deadline day. Costel Pantilimon’s injury in the FA Cup defeat at Millwall meant goalkeeper was a position that needed reinforcing, too. Central defence still looks a little brittle. The other notable departure yesterday was Adlène Guedioura to Middlesbrough. Paul Doyle

In Mauro Zárate Fiorentina £2.3m; Tom Cleverley Everton loan; M’Baye Niang Milan loan



Out Odion Ighalo Changchun Yatai £17.1m; Adlène Guedioura Middlesbrough £4m; Adalberto Peñaranda Málaga loan; Obbi Oulare Willem ll loan; Alex Jakubiak Wycombe Wanderers loan; Jerome Sinclair Birmingham City loan; Michael Folivi Coventry loan

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Tom Cleverley has added steel to Watford’s midfield. Photograph: John Walton/PA

West Brom

It was a frustrating transfer window for Tony Pulis, who suggested he was a victim of his own success because Albion’s lofty league position made it difficult to find players who could be classed as upgrades. Finally selling Saido Berahino was, at least, in the best interests of all concerned but Albion needed to recruit a potent striker to make a big difference to their campaign. Pulis explored many striking options but was not able to secure any of his targets, nor was he able to add another wide player to his team’s armoury. Jake Livermore is a positive signing but hardly a transformative one. Paul Doyle

In Jake Livermore Hull City £10m; Marc Wilson Bournemouth loan



Out Saido Berahino Stoke City £12m; Callum McManaman Sheffield Wednesday loan; Craig Gardner Birmingham City loan; Tyler Roberts Shrewsbury Town loan; Andre Wright Yeovil Town loan; Tahvon Campbell Notts County loan

West Ham United

The window was dominated by the Dimitri Payet saga, with the unsettled French midfielder finally getting his move back to Marseille when a £25m fee was agreed for him on Sunday. Robert Snodgrass has arrived from Hull City to fill the creative void left by Payet’s departure, while Angelo Ogbonna’s knee injury necessitated a move for the Southampton centre-back José Fonte. But interest in the Brentford striker Scott Hogan waned and West Ham have still not resolved their weakness at right-back. Jacob Steinberg

In Robert Snodgrass Hull City £10.2m; José Fonte Southampton £8m; Nathan Holland Everton undisclosed



Out Dimitri Payet Marseille £25m; Lewis Page Charlton Athletic £500,000; Martin Samuelsen Peterborough United loan; Sam Howes Hampton & Richmond Borough loan; Alex Pike Cheltenham Town loan; Simone Zaza loan recall; Marcus Browne Wigan Athletic loan; Toni Martínez Oxford United loan; Reece Oxford Reading loan