Immigrants From Middle-East Are America's Top Entrepreneurs, Still Trump Doesn't Want Them Anymore
Immigrants From Middle-East Are America's Top Entrepreneurs, Still Trump Doesn't Want Them
Immigrants From Middle-East Are America's Top Entrepreneurs, Still Trump Doesn't Want Them Anymore Men and women from the Middle-East, who had traveled thousands of miles in search of the American Dream found it snatched away from them, one week after President Donald Trump took charge. Trump's Executive Order, curtailing immigration from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Libya, and Somalia sent a shockwave through the Muslim majority countries - combined, they sent 86,000 visitors to the United States in 2015 (Department of Homeland Security), half a lakh obtained permanent U.S. residency that year. As Vice News pointed out, the Middle Eastern immigrant is quite the opposite of the evil Trump administration paints him as. For one, Middle Eastern immigrants are some of the most highly self-employed of any demographic. Yet, this is the very demographic Trump wants to weed out, irrespective of education, employment history, or any other qualifying basis.  "We based our entire lives here," Iranian-born Masoud Afzali, told Reuters in a phone interview. "I thought that this country, one of its values was that they don't care what religion you have or where you're from, and that you can live freely." Afzali had won a green card through immigration lottery and came to the United States with his wife and daughter about a year and a half ago. Last week, his wife and three-year-old daughter went to visit family in Iran. Now, they face the prospect of being separated indefinitely. "We based our entire lives here," Afzali said in a phone interview on Saturday, his voice breaking. "I thought that this country, one of its values was that they don't care what religion you have or where you're from, and that you can live freely."

Men and women from the Middle-East, who had traveled thousands of miles in search of the American Dream found it snatched away from them, one week after President Donald Trump took charge.

Trump's Executive Order, curtailing immigration from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Libya, and Somalia sent a shockwave through the Muslim majority countries - combined, they sent 86,000 visitors to the United States in 2015 (Department of Homeland Security), half a lakh obtained permanent U.S. residency that year.

As Vice News pointed out, the Middle Eastern immigrant is quite the opposite of the evil Trump administration paints him as.

For one, Middle Eastern immigrants are some of the most highly self-employed of any demographic.

They are even more entrepreneurial than immigrants from Muslim majority countries Pakistan, and Bangladesh, and even India.

"I thought that this country, one of its values was that they don't care what religion you have or where you're from"

Yet, this is the very demographic Trump wants to weed out, irrespective of education, employment history, or any other qualifying basis. "We based our entire lives here," Iranian-born Masoud Afzali, told Reuters in a phone interview. "I thought that this country, one of its values was that they don't care what religion you have or where you're from, and that you can live freely."

Afzali had won a green card through immigration lottery and came to the United States with his wife and daughter about a year and a half ago. Last week, his wife and three-year-old daughter went to visit family in Iran. Now, they face the prospect of being separated indefinitely.

"We based our entire lives here," Afzali said in a phone interview on Saturday, his voice breaking.

"I thought that this country, one of its values was that they don't care what religion you have or where you're from, and that you can live freely."