Lady Gaga Talks Super Bowl, Says Her Sister Lobbied to 'Suspend' Her in the Air
Lady Gaga Talks Super Bowl, Says Her Sister Lobbied to 'Suspend' Her in the Air
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Lady Gaga Talks Super Bowl, Says Her Sister Lobbied to 'Suspend' Her in the Air  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  As football fans look forward to seeing the New England Patriots face off against the Atlanta Falcons at Super Bowl LI on Sunday, for music fans all eyes are on halftime performer Lady Gaga . The Mother Monster spoke with Boston's Mix 104.1 radio show on Tuesday (Jan. 31) and gave some more teases of what we can expect from her massive upcoming performance -- including possibly flying in the air through Houston's NRG Stadium. Though Gaga wasn't looking to reveal too much, she did say it was her sister Natali Germanotta's idea that the pop star get rigged up cables to send her soaring over the crowd.  "I know, let's suspend you in the air!" Gaga recalled her suggesting. As for rumors that Gaga's friend Tony Bennett might join her for the big show, she didn't give much away but was sure to compliment her past collaborator. "I don't want to say anything or give away specifically about what you will see during the halftime show, because I don't want to ruin the surprise for everyone else," she said. "I will tell you that it's going to be fantastic and Tony is the best there is and if he was in it, it would be fantastic!"  As for how she even got the gig to take over the world's biggest stage, Gaga explained what is basically an application process. "There's a lengthy process to go through, meeting with the NFL and sort of applying and discussing what you would do in the first place," she said. "I think that part of how they decide who is going to come and do the halftime show is based on our ideas and what we want to do. They were really excited about the show we wanted to put on. They've been super-supportive. They've been there every day at the rehearsal space with us and cheering me on as I rehearse. It's been great." Listen to the interview here:

Lady Gaga Talks Super Bowl, Says Her Sister Lobbied to 'Suspend' Her in the Air

As football fans look forward to seeing the New England Patriots face off against the Atlanta Falcons at Super Bowl LI on Sunday, for music fans all eyes are on halftime performer Lady Gaga.

The Mother Monster spoke with Boston's Mix 104.1 radio show Karson & Kennedy on Tuesday (Jan. 31) and gave some more teases of what we can expect from her massive upcoming performance -- including possibly flying in the air through Houston's NRG Stadium.

Though Gaga wasn't looking to reveal too much, she did say it was her sister Natali Germanotta's idea that the pop star get rigged up cables to send her soaring over the crowd.

"I know, let's suspend you in the air!" Gaga recalled her suggesting.

As for rumors that Gaga's friend Tony Bennett might join her for the big show, she didn't give much away but was sure to compliment her past collaborator.

"I don't want to say anything or give away specifically about what you will see during the halftime show, because I don't want to ruin the surprise for everyone else," she said. "I will tell you that it's going to be fantastic and Tony is the best there is and if he was in it, it would be fantastic!"

As for how she even got the gig to take over the world's biggest stage, Gaga explained what is basically an application process.

"There's a lengthy process to go through, meeting with the NFL and sort of applying and discussing what you would do in the first place," she said. "I think that part of how they decide who is going to come and do the halftime show is based on our ideas and what we want to do. They were really excited about the show we wanted to put on. They've been super-supportive. They've been there every day at the rehearsal space with us and cheering me on as I rehearse. It's been great."

Listen to the interview here: