China's economy shows signs of stabilising as manufacturing activity expands



China's economy shows signs of stabilising as manufacturing activity expands

Posted

It is hardly a great economic leap forward, but another solid set of data from China's industrial heartland points to promising start to the year, rather than the rout that ushered in 2016.

Key points: Official PMI shows Chinese factory activity continuing to expand

Services sector growth is offsetting cooling property market

Withdrawal of stimulus may halt recovery

While the official manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) — published by the National Bureau of Statistics — edged down in January, it still indicates factory activity is expanding.

The PMI reading of 51.3 slipped marginally from December's 51.4, and the two-year high of 51.7 in November, but still exceeded market expectations.

A PMI of above 50 indicates expansion, while below shows activity is contracting.

Capital Economics' China economist Julian Evans-Pritchard said the data suggests China's recent recovery appears to remain largely intact for now.

"The rest of the economy also appears to be holding up well — the official non-manufacturing PMI edged up from 54.5 to 54.6," Mr Evans-Pritchard said.

"The breakdown suggests that an acceleration in service sector activity offset a slowdown in the construction sector, which has been hit by the cooling property market and a reduction in fiscal support."

The services sector accounted for more than half of China's GDP in 2016, the fifth successive year it has surpassed the economic output of secondary industries such as manufacturing and construction.

The solid manufacturing data has been supported by a promising increase in factory gate prices, as well as improved retail conditions.

The official PMI, which is heavily skewed to readings from medium to large state-owned enterprises, is often viewed in tandem with the "unofficial" reading from the financial news publisher Caixin with its heavier weighting towards smaller, privately owned businesses.

The Caixin PMI is due to be released later this week.

"Even if the unofficial PMIs also point to a relatively strong start to the year, the more important question is whether or not the current strength will be sustained," Mr Evans-Pritchard noted.

"We doubt that it will be given how reliant the recent recovery has been on support from monetary and fiscal policy that is now being withdrawn."

Topics: manufacturing, business-economics-and-finance, economic-trends, globalisation---economy, china