Florida State Seminoles will beat LSU Tigers to land Marvin Wilson in national signing day surprise
10 things to watch on national signing day
10 things to watch on national signing day LeBron James defies a long history of misses Cavs steadfast on Love: 'Not going anywhere' Knicks lament lack of pride after loss to Lakers Cousins faces 1-game ban after getting 16th tech Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Sources: Pelicans vying to acquire 76ers' Okafor Baylor fires asst. after arrest in prostitution sting Kings GM clears air: Cousins will not be traded Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back UCLA, Texas pull off top-10 upsets on the road Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. College hoops Power Rankings: When the mighty fall Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 1 Related Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Power Rankings: Washington looks unbeatable Contenders or pretenders? The state of MLB's mid-tier teams Four-Ball: Taking stock of Tiger's comeback Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy How Martellus Bennett redefined the Patriot Way Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Joost a hero twice over in one extraordinary life Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Jeremy Crabtree is a senior coordinator Spent 12 years with Rivals.com/Yahoo! Sports Graduated from Kansas State Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment The final minutes of the 2017 recruiting cycle are ticking away and 11 ESPN 300 recruits are scheduled to announce their decisions Wednesday on the ESPNU Signing Day Special, and around 40 other elite prospects will also make their selections then. Wednesday is sure to have plenty of twists and turns, and here are 10 bold predictions for what we'll see on national signing day: Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Insider

The final minutes of the 2017 recruiting cycle are ticking away and 11 ESPN 300 recruits are scheduled to announce their decisions Wednesday on the ESPNU Signing Day Special, and around 40 other elite prospects will also make their selections then.

Wednesday is sure to have plenty of twists and turns, and here are 10 bold predictions for what we'll see on national signing day: