British anti-Isil fighter Ryan Lock shot himself to avoid being taken hostage
British anti-Isil fighter Ryan Lock shot himself to avoid being taken hostage 
British chef who died fighting Isil in northern Syria shot himself to avoid being captured by the jihadists, it emerged yesterday. Ryan Lock, 20, from Chichester, West Sussex, died near the city of Raqqa - the capital of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)’s self-declared caliphate on December 21. Mr Lock, who had no previous military experience, joined the Kurdish People’s Defence Units (YPG) militia as a volunteer after telling his family he was going on holiday to Turkey in August. Macer Gifford, another British fighter with the YPG, said Mr Lock, alongside four comrades, found themselves surrounded by Isil fighters during a fierce firefight in the village of Jaeber. r Lock is understood to have shot himself in the head to avoid being taken captive by Isil and used as a propaganda tool, as has happened to other Western hostages. The other three men, which included a Canadian volunteer, were shot dead by the militants. “They refused to surrender and battled to the end,” Mr Gifford wrote on Facebook. “It seems like Ryan - in one final act of defiance - killed himself. “Ryan Lock deserves a medal for bravery. In a time when the word 'hero' is used for reality and sporting stars, here was a young man that travelled across the world to battle the evil Islamic State.” ark Campbell, a Kurdish rights campaigner, told the Telegraph that an autopsy was carried out last week - the results of which have not yet been made public. However, Jon Plater, Mr Lock's father, confirmed the reports, saying: "We did know. It is true - 100 per cent." The YPG held a military funeral for Mr Lock in northern Syria on Tuesday. Photographs showed a coffin draped in the Union flag with a picture of the young fighter in army fatigues. His body was handed over the officials from the British Consulate in neighbouring Iraq yesterday and will be brought back to the UK in the coming days. Mihyedin Xirki, a YPG commander, described Mr Lock - who used the nom de guerre Berxwedan Givara - as a "martyr" who died "putting up a brave fight". "We bless the resistance of British martyr Berxwedan Givara for the families of all martyrs and the British people," Gen. Xirki said in a statement. Mr Lock is the third Briton to be killed fighting the terror group in northern Syria alongside the YPG - the leftist armed wing of Kurdish Democratic Union party (PYD) which is considered the US-led coalition’s strongest ally in the fight against Isil. Konstandinos Erik Scurfield, a 25-year-old former Royal Marine from Barnsley, was killed by mortar fire in the north-east Syrian town of Tel Hamis in March. Dean Evans, a 22-year-old dairy farmer from Warminster, was hit by an RPG last July in the nearby city of Manbij while trying to rescue a fallen comrade.

A British chef who died fighting Isil in northern Syria shot himself to avoid being captured by the jihadists, it emerged yesterday.

Ryan Lock, 20, from Chichester, West Sussex, died near the city of Raqqa - the capital of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil)’s self-declared caliphate on December 21.

Mr Lock, who had no previous military experience, joined the Kurdish People’s Defence Units (YPG) militia as a volunteer after telling his family he was going on holiday to Turkey in August.

Macer Gifford, another British fighter with the YPG, said Mr Lock, alongside four comrades, found themselves surrounded by Isil fighters during a fierce firefight in the village of Jaeber.