Lady Gaga Will Star in Tiffany & Co.'s First Super Bowl Ad
Lady Gaga Will Star in Tiffany & Co.'s First Super Bowl Ad
Lady Gaga Is a Legacy Artist Now, But What a Legacy: Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Show Analysis Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Super Bowl LI Commercials: The Best (and Worst) Commercials of 2017 Watch Lady Gaga's Show-Stopping Super Bowl 2017 Halftime Performance Lady Gaga Will Star in Tiffany & Co.'s First Super Bowl Ad  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  While details of Lady Gaga ’s halftime performance (and wardrobe) are still under wraps, it’s a safe bet that the singer will be wearing Tiffany & Co. jewelry during the show, as the brand just announced that she will star in its first-ever Super Bowl ad. The 60-second commercial, which airs Feb. 5 during Super Bowl LI, will show Gaga in its latest Legendary Style campaign, which will debut its new fashion jewelry line, called Tiffany HardWear.  The jewelry brand worked with legendary Vogue editor Grace Coddington and fashion photographer David Sims to create the clip, which shows Gaga (dressed in a chic tuxedo and then in a Holly Golightly-esque cashmere sweater and cigarette pants, her hair pulled back to show her earrings) speaking unscripted about her creative process, the importance of self-expression and empowerment. She also speaks, as a native New Yorker, about what Tiffany means to her. “In New York, you're born knowing that Tiffany is the best, and that it is where the magic happens. The brand is definitive and iconic, yet continues to push and evolve with the times,” says the singer in the video. “To me, Tiffany represents timeless American jewelry.”  The new jewelry line features the brand’s signature sterling silver along with bold 18k gold pieces and is inspired by a unisex bracelet from 1971 that the design team found in the brand’s archives. “For 180 years, the world’s chicest women have chosen Tiffany jewelry as a powerful expression of who they are,” says Caroline Naggiar, chief brand officer of Tiffany & Co. “This campaign celebrates Tiffany’s rich legacy and the modernity of Tiffany style. Lady Gaga, and her originality, creativity and courage, reflects the spirit of this collection.”  While jewelry brands aren’t the norm for Super Bowl ads, which usually see a steady rotation of beer, tech and auto commercials, Tiffany & Co. has long been involved with the sporting event: For the past 50 years, the brand has been responsible for creating the Vince Lombardi Super Bowl trophy, which stands at 22 inches high and is made of seven pounds of silver. The current trophy just made its way to Houston, where it is currently on display at the George R. Brown Convention Center until game day.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

While details of Lady Gaga’s halftime performance (and wardrobe) are still under wraps, it’s a safe bet that the singer will be wearing Tiffany & Co. jewelry during the show, as the brand just announced that she will star in its first-ever Super Bowl ad. The 60-second commercial, which airs Feb. 5 during Super Bowl LI, will show Gaga in its latest Legendary Style campaign, which will debut its new fashion jewelry line, called Tiffany HardWear.

The jewelry brand worked with legendary Vogue editor Grace Coddington and fashion photographer David Sims to create the clip, which shows Gaga (dressed in a chic tuxedo and then in a Holly Golightly-esque cashmere sweater and cigarette pants, her hair pulled back to show her earrings) speaking unscripted about her creative process, the importance of self-expression and empowerment.

She also speaks, as a native New Yorker, about what Tiffany means to her. “In New York, you're born knowing that Tiffany is the best, and that it is where the magic happens. The brand is definitive and iconic, yet continues to push and evolve with the times,” says the singer in the video. “To me, Tiffany represents timeless American jewelry.”

The new jewelry line features the brand’s signature sterling silver along with bold 18k gold pieces and is inspired by a unisex bracelet from 1971 that the design team found in the brand’s archives. “For 180 years, the world’s chicest women have chosen Tiffany jewelry as a powerful expression of who they are,” says Caroline Naggiar, chief brand officer of Tiffany & Co. “This campaign celebrates Tiffany’s rich legacy and the modernity of Tiffany style. Lady Gaga, and her originality, creativity and courage, reflects the spirit of this collection.”



While jewelry brands aren’t the norm for Super Bowl ads, which usually see a steady rotation of beer, tech and auto commercials, Tiffany & Co. has long been involved with the sporting event: For the past 50 years, the brand has been responsible for creating the Vince Lombardi Super Bowl trophy, which stands at 22 inches high and is made of seven pounds of silver. The current trophy just made its way to Houston, where it is currently on display at the George R. Brown Convention Center until game day.