‘The Daily’: Making Sense of the Gorsuch Pick
‘The Daily’: Making Sense of the Gorsuch Pick
On the eve of our debut episode of “The Daily,” President Trump delivered a major news story . For his first Supreme Court nomination, he selected Neil M. Gorsuch , a conservative judge with a sterling résumé. I spent the night in the studio talking with some of my most insightful New York Times colleagues about what it means. Maggie Haberman, a White House reporter, explains Mr. Trump’s reverence for the Supreme Court. Listen to Your Daily Audio Report Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON GOOGLE PLAY MUSIC Carl Hulse, the dean of congressional reporters, explains what to expect during the confirmation process. And Adam Liptak, our chief legal correspondent, introduces the country’s new Supreme Court nominee. To understand more about Judge Gorsuch, I also talk to David Green, the chief executive of Hobby Lobby, a company at the center of one of Judge Gorsuch’s most important cases. He ruled that corporations with religious owners — like Hobby Lobby — cannot be required to pay for insurance coverage for contraception. Advertisement “We voted for Trump, not that we agree with everything he does,” Mr. Green tells me on the show, speaking for himself and his wife. “The most important thing to us was the fact that we knew he would put someone there that ruled on the Constitution,” he said, referring to the Supreme Court. “Because if you rule on the Constitution, it would be obvious that we would not have to be forced to do something, and that we would have our religious liberties.” The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. Hi, Michael Barbaro here, and I’m making it my job to keep you current with context and analysis of the biggest stories of the day. Sign up to stay in the know. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com . Tweet me at @mikiebarb . And if that isn’t enough, we can even text . How do I listen? Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link , which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”) Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Open the preloaded app called “Play Music”; it has an orange-and-yellow icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link , which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type, “The Daily.”) Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Advertisement Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open in your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily . Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.” You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Carl Hulse, the dean of congressional reporters, explains what to expect during the confirmation process.

And Adam Liptak, our chief legal correspondent, introduces the country’s new Supreme Court nominee.

To understand more about Judge Gorsuch, I also talk to David Green, the chief executive of Hobby Lobby, a company at the center of one of Judge Gorsuch’s most important cases. He ruled that corporations with religious owners — like Hobby Lobby — cannot be required to pay for insurance coverage for contraception.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We voted for Trump, not that we agree with everything he does,” Mr. Green tells me on the show, speaking for himself and his wife.

“The most important thing to us was the fact that we knew he would put someone there that ruled on the Constitution,” he said, referring to the Supreme Court. “Because if you rule on the Constitution, it would be obvious that we would not have to be forced to do something, and that we would have our religious liberties.”

The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. Hi, Michael Barbaro here, and I’m making it my job to keep you current with context and analysis of the biggest stories of the day. Sign up to stay in the know. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Yes, please send me messages from NYT The Daily to this phone number. Privacy policy U.S. numbers only. Standard messaging rates may apply.

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text.

How do I listen?

If you are on your phone and don’t see an audio player on this page, follow the instructions below.



On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”)

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

On your Android phone or tablet:

Open the preloaded app called “Play Music”; it has an orange-and-yellow icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type, “The Daily.”)

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open in your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”