CargillVoice: How Millennials Are Driving Change In The Protein Industry
CargillVoice: How Millennials Are Driving Change In The Protein Industry
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Cargill       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Millennial preferences are pushing the protein industry to keep pace—and creating a dynamic landscape for the future of protein. Convenience. Choice. Transparency. That’s what millennials want when it comes to protein. Their preferences are putting the onus on the industry to keep pace—and creating a dynamic landscape for the future of protein. “Millennials are changing how food is being consumed, just like baby boomers did,” said Brian Sikes, corporate vice president of Cargill’s protein group. “They are proving to be unique consumers across industries. In the protein space, that is driving a global call to do things differently. So how do we deliver what millennial consumers value? . The direct-to-consumer space is experiencing the fastest growth in food retail. Home delivery options are emerging as a new frontier for grocery and millennial consumers are interested in having protein options on the go. . Innovation is bringing alternative protein sources to market in increasingly palatable ways. Plant-based options are competing with more traditional protein sources. At the same time, the idea of meat derived from alternative sources, like insects, is no longer the stuff of science fiction. “The market is growing for protein from both plant- and animal-based sources,” said Sikes. “That includes traditional sources like beef, poultry, seafood and dairy. And we’re exploring emerging trends for proteins, from insects to algae to peas.” y. Finally, millennials are part of a larger trend in which consumers want to know the source of their food. They want to understand not only what’s in their food but how it’s produced. Protein is no exception. “Consumers are making choices to protect the planet and ensure the humane treatment of animals.” said Sikes. “They want to know the story of where their protein comes from and feel good about what they eat. This includes nutrition, animal welfare, food safety and the overall environmental footprint.” Cargill has advanced new technologies and approaches to sustainability across the protein supply change. This includes: Piloting a sustainable beef program in Canada in partnership with McDonald’s to successfully track nearly 9,000 head of cattle from birth to beef through a fully verified supply chain. A first in the industry, this pilot will be used to inform similar programs around the world. Collaborating with cattle ranchers, researchers, universities and partners to identify production practices and viable alternatives to further recue the use of medicines for food animal production. Today, Cargill has limited antibiotic use in turkeys and cattle, removing all growth-promoting antibiotics from turkeys raised by independent farmers and eliminating 20 percent of shared-class antibiotics from about 1.2 million beef cattle. Working as a founding member of the Coalition for Sustainable Egg Supply to understand the impact of hen housing systems on animal welfare, the environment, work health, food safety and food affordability. Shifting consumer preference is just one driver for change in the protein space. Combining those insights with global population growth—expected to reach 9 billion by 2050—and a rise in protein-rich diets across regions, the landscape is ripe with opportunities for product and supply chain innovation, and new approaches to protein, to create a more sustainable, food secure future.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Convenience. Choice. Transparency. That’s what millennials want when it comes to protein. Their preferences are putting the onus on the industry to keep pace—and creating a dynamic landscape for the future of protein.

“Millennials are changing how food is being consumed, just like baby boomers did,” said Brian Sikes, corporate vice president of Cargill’s protein group. “They are proving to be unique consumers across industries. In the protein space, that is driving a global call to do things differently.

So how do we deliver what millennial consumers value?

Convenience. The direct-to-consumer space is experiencing the fastest growth in food retail. Home delivery options are emerging as a new frontier for grocery and millennial consumers are interested in having protein options on the go.

Choice. Innovation is bringing alternative protein sources to market in increasingly palatable ways. Plant-based options are competing with more traditional protein sources. At the same time, the idea of meat derived from alternative sources, like insects, is no longer the stuff of science fiction.

“The market is growing for protein from both plant- and animal-based sources,” said Sikes. “That includes traditional sources like beef, poultry, seafood and dairy. And we’re exploring emerging trends for proteins, from insects to algae to peas.”

Transparency. Finally, millennials are part of a larger trend in which consumers want to know the source of their food. They want to understand not only what’s in their food but how it’s produced. Protein is no exception.

“Consumers are making choices to protect the planet and ensure the humane treatment of animals.” said Sikes. “They want to know the story of where their protein comes from and feel good about what they eat. This includes nutrition, animal welfare, food safety and the overall environmental footprint.”

Cargill has advanced new technologies and approaches to sustainability across the protein supply change. This includes:

Piloting a sustainable beef program in Canada in partnership with McDonald’s to successfully track nearly 9,000 head of cattle from birth to beef through a fully verified supply chain. A first in the industry, this pilot will be used to inform similar programs around the world.

Collaborating with cattle ranchers, researchers, universities and partners to identify production practices and viable alternatives to further recue the use of medicines for food animal production. Today, Cargill has limited antibiotic use in turkeys and cattle, removing all growth-promoting antibiotics from turkeys raised by independent farmers and eliminating 20 percent of shared-class antibiotics from about 1.2 million beef cattle.

Working as a founding member of the Coalition for Sustainable Egg Supply to understand the impact of hen housing systems on animal welfare, the environment, work health, food safety and food affordability.

Shifting consumer preference is just one driver for change in the protein space. Combining those insights with global population growth—expected to reach 9 billion by 2050—and a rise in protein-rich diets across regions, the landscape is ripe with opportunities for product and supply chain innovation, and new approaches to protein, to create a more sustainable, food secure future.