How to ask for a promotion or pay rise – live chat

Sarah Shearman    If you feel squeamish at the thought of asking for a pay rise or promotion then you are not alone. Seven out of 10 UK workers have not asked for a pay rise in three years – and almost half feel that just asking for a raise would jeopardise their career, according to a study from recruitment agency Randstad. We are taught that if you don’t ask, you don’t get. But the fear of being turned down, of the boss’s reaction, and of having to justify oneself are the main reasons why people do not ask for a pay rise, according to the study. Following a period of economic uncertainty, many workers have had to bear the brunt of pay freezes and wage stagnation, making the subjects of promotion and pay difficult to bring up, particularly at organisations where there have been redundancies. Although many workers are reluctant to ask for more money, not being paid enough is their biggest gripe. According to a recent study by Investors in People, 59% of UK workers [pdf] said they are looking to move jobs as they think they can get more money elsewhere. The study found that not feeling valued, and no career progression, are other key reasons why workers say they are unhappy in their jobs. If you believe it is time for a pay rise or promotion, but don’t know how to broach the topic, then join our live chat on . We will be discussing: How to overcome awkwardness when asking for a pay rise or promotion Knowing your worth and working out what pay rise you should get What you should do if your request is turned down, or less than expected? The Q&A takes place in the comments section below. Taking part is easier than ever: to comment, create a free Guardian account or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profile. Alternatively, tweet us @GuardianCareers or email your questions to sarah.shearman@theguardian.com who can post them for you. The panel is an author, columnist and speaker on careers and higher education. He also works on educational access and equity issues nationwide.  is an executive and leadership coach, teaching professionals the unspoken rules to advancing in the workplace. She founded the blog Prolific Living with her husband started after successful corporate careers.  his the global head of Investors in People, the people management standard. Prior to joining Investors in People, Devoy was head of organisational development at the Scottish Prison Service.  is managing director, head of coaching programmes at coaching consultancy Talking Talent. She is an executive and leadership coach, speaker and programme facilitator with a marketing background. runs Momentum Careers Advice . She has 12 years experience as a careers adviser, working clients ranging from students to experienced professionals. Prior to this she worked as an in-house recruiter for a variety of blue-chip companies.  is a partner in the employment and discrimination department at Leigh Day Solicitors. He has represented thousands of clients, many in discrimination and equal pay claims, and secured millions of pounds in compensation.  is the founder and chief executive of Advantage Spring, a global negotiation consultancy. Reynolds has trained thousands of executives how to negotiate effectively at some of the world’s largest organisations, including JP Morgan, Rolls Royce, Deloitte and the United Nations.  is a business owner, motivational speaker and leadership expert. She runs ‘inspiring women’ workshops together with former England rugby captain, Catherine Spencer, to help find and encourage female talent in the workplace. Topics  Live Q&As   Live Q&A   Work & careers   Live Q and A

If you feel squeamish at the thought of asking for a pay rise or promotion then you are not alone. Seven out of 10 UK workers have not asked for a pay rise in three years – and almost half feel that just asking for a raise would jeopardise their career, according to a study from recruitment agency Randstad.



We are taught that if you don’t ask, you don’t get. But the fear of being turned down, of the boss’s reaction, and of having to justify oneself are the main reasons why people do not ask for a pay rise, according to the study. Following a period of economic uncertainty, many workers have had to bear the brunt of pay freezes and wage stagnation, making the subjects of promotion and pay difficult to bring up, particularly at organisations where there have been redundancies.

Although many workers are reluctant to ask for more money, not being paid enough is their biggest gripe. According to a recent study by Investors in People, 59% of UK workers [pdf] said they are looking to move jobs as they think they can get more money elsewhere. The study found that not feeling valued, and no career progression, are other key reasons why workers say they are unhappy in their jobs.

If you believe it is time for a pay rise or promotion, but don’t know how to broach the topic, then join our live chat on Wednesday 1 February at 1–2.30pm GMT. We will be discussing:

How to overcome awkwardness when asking for a pay rise or promotion



Knowing your worth and working out what pay rise you should get



What you should do if your request is turned down, or less than expected?

The Q&A takes place in the comments section below. Taking part is easier than ever: to comment, create a free Guardian account or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profile. Alternatively, tweet us @GuardianCareers or email your questions to sarah.shearman@theguardian.com who can post them for you.

The panel

Donald Asher is an author, columnist and speaker on careers and higher education. He also works on educational access and equity issues nationwide.

Farnoosh Brock is an executive and leadership coach, teaching professionals the unspoken rules to advancing in the workplace. She founded the blog Prolific Living with her husband started after successful corporate careers.

Paul Devoy his the global head of Investors in People, the people management standard. Prior to joining Investors in People, Devoy was head of organisational development at the Scottish Prison Service.

Rebecca Hourston is managing director, head of coaching programmes at coaching consultancy Talking Talent. She is an executive and leadership coach, speaker and programme facilitator with a marketing background.

Hannah Morton Hedges runs Momentum Careers Advice. She has 12 years experience as a careers adviser, working clients ranging from students to experienced professionals. Prior to this she worked as an in-house recruiter for a variety of blue-chip companies.

Michael Newman is a partner in the employment and discrimination department at Leigh Day Solicitors. He has represented thousands of clients, many in discrimination and equal pay claims, and secured millions of pounds in compensation.

Natalie Reynolds is the founder and chief executive of Advantage Spring, a global negotiation consultancy. Reynolds has trained thousands of executives how to negotiate effectively at some of the world’s largest organisations, including JP Morgan, Rolls Royce, Deloitte and the United Nations.

Jo Wimble-Groves is a business owner, motivational speaker and leadership expert. She runs ‘inspiring women’ workshops together with former England rugby captain, Catherine Spencer, to help find and encourage female talent in the workplace.

Looking for a job? Browse Guardian Jobs or sign up to Guardian Careers for the latest job vacancies and career advice