Mariah Carey Reveals Cover Art for YG-Assisted 'I Don't'
Mariah Carey Reveals Cover Art for YG-Assisted 'I Don't'
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Mariah Carey Reveals Cover Art for YG-Assisted 'I Don't'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After sharing a snippet of her forthcoming heartbreak cut "I Don't" during the season finale of E!'s , Mariah Carey unveiled the lavish cover art for the single. The image features MC in the backseat as YG rides shotgun in a white whip with red leather seats. The song follows her split from ex-fiance, billionaire James Packer. (Carey is currently romantically tied to dancer Bryan Tanaka.) "Said you would always be mine/ Feeding me nothing but lines/ I was so gone, I admit it/ Happy messed up for a minute," she sings, also interpolating some lines from Donell Jones ' 1999 offering "Where I Wanna Be."  "I Don't" is expected to arrive Friday. Here it is: the cover for my new song, I Don't, coming out this Friday. ------ MC + YG #IDONT  pic.twitter.com/agiVedgpMe  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mariah Carey performs during the 2016 Essence Music Festival at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome on July 2, 2016 in New Orleans.Â

After sharing a snippet of her forthcoming heartbreak cut "I Don't" during the season finale of E!'s Mariah's World, Mariah Carey unveiled the lavish cover art for the single.

The image features MC in the backseat as YG rides shotgun in a white whip with red leather seats. The song follows her split from ex-fiance, billionaire James Packer. (Carey is currently romantically tied to dancer Bryan Tanaka.)

"Said you would always be mine/ Feeding me nothing but lines/ I was so gone, I admit it/ Happy messed up for a minute," she sings, also interpolating some lines from Donell Jones' 1999 offering "Where I Wanna Be."

"I Don't" is expected to arrive Friday.