African American Museum tried to distribute more free passes — and then its site crashed again

Tanya Isley was in the hunt again Wednesday morning for free passes to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. But the site crashed, and crashed again, and after 30 minutes, the Greensboro, N.C., resident said it showed the tickets were gone. “They’ve got to come up with a better system,” Isley said. “They know the demand is high, so why would you select a vendor who doesn’t have the bandwidth to handle it?” The museum — which has welcomed almost 900,000 visitors since it opened Sept. 24 — has had trouble distributing the free passes since the beginning. Problems with the vendor, E-Tix, caused it to reschedule the date in October when passes for January through March became available. Last month, when it gave out passes for April, there were many complaints, but the passes were distributed within hours. Museum officials said that its vendor had increased its capacity but that it couldn’t keep up with the thousands of requests. The museum apologized for “the inconvenience to our visitors who tried to obtain free passes for May today. There has been a service problem with a data center serving our timed-pass provider.” Despite the problems, most of the passes were taken. Free timed passes became available at 9 a.m. online and by phone. The system froze and crashed repeatedly from the start, and many took to Twitter to vent their frustrations. After an hour, dates were still available online. But after confirming date and time, users were unable to proceed to the register stage. Others reported trouble at the “I’m not a robot” point, technology that is used to eliminate bots from snapping up passes for the resale market. The museum distributes same-day passes online each morning at 6:30 a.m. Those passes are taken within minutes each day. Tracy Walton of San Antonio did not want to make travel plans — including purchasing an airline ticket — without already obtaining passes to the museum. She chose her date and time and had the passes in the shopping cart when the system crashed. “It’s really frustrating and disappointing,” she said. “Clearly there is something going on.”



The National Museum of African American History and Culture opened in September. (Jahi Chikwendiu/The Washington Post)

Tanya Isley was in the hunt again Wednesday morning for free passes to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. But the site crashed, and crashed again, and after 30 minutes, the Greensboro, N.C., resident said it showed the tickets were gone.

“They’ve got to come up with a better system,” Isley said. “They know the demand is high, so why would you select a vendor who doesn’t have the bandwidth to handle it?”

The museum — which has welcomed almost 900,000 visitors since it opened Sept. 24 — has had trouble distributing the free passes since the beginning. Problems with the vendor, E-Tix, caused it to reschedule the date in October when passes for January through March became available. Last month, when it gave out passes for April, there were many complaints, but the passes were distributed within hours. Museum officials said that its vendor had increased its capacity but that it couldn’t keep up with the thousands of requests.

[Museum will try again to distribute passes for early next year]

The museum apologized for “the inconvenience to our visitors who tried to obtain free passes for May today. There has been a service problem with a data center serving our timed-pass provider.” Despite the problems, most of the passes were taken.

Free timed passes became available at 9 a.m. online and by phone. The system froze and crashed repeatedly from the start, and many took to Twitter to vent their frustrations. After an hour, dates were still available online. But after confirming date and time, users were unable to proceed to the register stage. Others reported trouble at the “I’m not a robot” point, technology that is used to eliminate bots from snapping up passes for the resale market.

The museum distributes same-day passes online each morning at 6:30 a.m. Those passes are taken within minutes each day.

Tracy Walton of San Antonio did not want to make travel plans — including purchasing an airline ticket — without already obtaining passes to the museum. She chose her date and time and had the passes in the shopping cart when the system crashed. “It’s really frustrating and disappointing,” she said. “Clearly there is something going on.”