Sen. Hatch: Dems Acting Like 'Juvenile Idiots' to Delay Trump Nominees

Sen. Hatch: Dems Acting Like 'Juvenile Idiots' to Delay Trump Nominees // // // // Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) said this afternoon that Senate Democrats are acting like "juvenile idiots" in order to delay or block President Donald Trump's nominees. Trump said earlier today that Republicans should "go nuclear" if they have to - referring to the nuclear option - in order to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch over Democrats' objections. Hatch, the finance committee chairman and a judiciary committee member, said he hopes that won't be necessary, since Gorsuch had no votes against him when he was confirmed to the federal appeals court. Hatch called out Democrats for refusing to show up for the finance committee hearings Tuesday to prevent votes from being taken on two nominees. In response earlier today, Hatch suspended the committee rules and confirmed Tom Price to head the Department of Health and Human Services and Steven Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary. "They're playing politics on everything and it's catching up with them. People are starting to say, 'My gosh, what a bunch of dunces,'" said Hatch. "It's juvenile and it's unbecoming. I feel sorry for them that they have to act that way. We can't put up with it," he said. Watch Sandra Smith's full interview above.

Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) said this afternoon that Senate Democrats are acting like "juvenile idiots" in order to delay or block President Donald Trump's nominees.

Trump said earlier today that Republicans should "go nuclear" if they have to - referring to the nuclear option - in order to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch over Democrats' objections.

Hatch, the finance committee chairman and a judiciary committee member, said he hopes that won't be necessary, since Gorsuch had no votes against him when he was confirmed to the federal appeals court.

Hatch called out Democrats for refusing to show up for the finance committee hearings Tuesday to prevent votes from being taken on two nominees.

In response earlier today, Hatch suspended the committee rules and confirmed Tom Price to head the Department of Health and Human Services and Steven Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary.

"They're playing politics on everything and it's catching up with them. People are starting to say, 'My gosh, what a bunch of dunces,'" said Hatch.

"It's juvenile and it's unbecoming. I feel sorry for them that they have to act that way. We can't put up with it," he said.

Watch Sandra Smith's full interview above.

Flynn: 'We're Officially Putting Iran on Notice' After Missile Test

Jon Stewart Resurfaces to Bash Trump for 'Purposeful, Vindictive Chaos'

'Born the Hard Way': Budweiser's Super Bowl Ad Centers on Immigration