Here's What You Need To Know About Budget 2017 + 5 Other Important Stories From Today
Here's What You Need To Know About Budget 2017 + 5 Other Important Stories From Today
Here's What You Need To Know About Budget 2017 + 5 Other Important Stories From Today In order to keep a check on black money, the government has put a Rs 3 lakh limit on cash transactions. The move is aimed at encouraging digital transactions and keeping a tab on financial transactions through cash. Additionally in a move which could be beneficial for millions of employed people the tax rate on those earning between Rs 2.5-5 lakhs has been reduced to 5 percent from the existing 10 per cent. For those whose annual income is Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, Jaitley has proposed a surcharge of 10 per cent. The 15 per cent surcharge on incomes above Rs 1 crore will continue. Here are other highlights from the budget speech. 1. India stands out as a bright spot amid world economic gloom. 2. Our focus will be on energising youth to reap benefits of growth and employment. 3. IMF estimates world GDP will grow by 3.4 per cent in 2017. 4. Oil prices, rising dollar and volatile commodity prices are seen as risks to the Indian economy. Read more here 1. Infosys Slammed For Forced Night Shifts, Woman Employees Can’t Refuse To Work In Lonely Offices Two days after Rasila Raju OP was brutally murdered inside the Infosys office in Pune, a cloud of gloom was hanging heavy over the campus, several issues have come to the fore. Many of which have been points of contention between employees and the management for a while now. Most of them are pointing at how women in the IT company are made to work late night shifts even on weekends when they could ideally be given laptops and work remotely. Female employees say that they have not been in favour of working night shifts, especially on weekends when the office is empty. There have been occasions when employees have taken up the issue with their managers or the human resource (HR) department, only to be told that they had agreed to work in shifts while being hired. Read More 2. Meet Jagjit Singh, The Genius Who Transformed His Maruti 800 Into A Stunning Convertible I think enthusiasm needs to operate on a whole new level for someone to literally - and I can't stress on this word enough - convert his second-hand Maruti into a convertible sports car! Enter Jagjit Singh, an automobile businessman who managed this feat like it was no big deal. Singh, who is seventeen years old in the industry, has, to his credit, over 170 modified vehicles that he reworked for people with disabilities. Read more

Reuters/representational image

In order to keep a check on black money, the government has put a Rs 3 lakh limit on cash transactions. The move is aimed at encouraging digital transactions and keeping a tab on financial transactions through cash.

Additionally in a move which could be beneficial for millions of employed people the tax rate on those earning between Rs 2.5-5 lakhs has been reduced to 5 percent from the existing 10 per cent.

For those whose annual income is Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, Jaitley has proposed a surcharge of 10 per cent.

The 15 per cent surcharge on incomes above Rs 1 crore will continue.

Here are other highlights from the budget speech.

1. India stands out as a bright spot amid world economic gloom.

2. Our focus will be on energising youth to reap benefits of growth and employment.

3. IMF estimates world GDP will grow by 3.4 per cent in 2017.

4. Oil prices, rising dollar and volatile commodity prices are seen as risks to the Indian economy. Read more here

Here are 5 more stories you will like:

1. Infosys Slammed For Forced Night Shifts, Woman Employees Can’t Refuse To Work In Lonely Offices

BCCL

Two days after Rasila Raju OP was brutally murdered inside the Infosys office in Pune, a cloud of gloom was hanging heavy over the campus, several issues have come to the fore. Many of which have been points of contention between employees and the management for a while now.

Most of them are pointing at how women in the IT company are made to work late night shifts even on weekends when they could ideally be given laptops and work remotely.

Female employees say that they have not been in favour of working night shifts, especially on weekends when the office is empty. There have been occasions when employees have taken up the issue with their managers or the human resource (HR) department, only to be told that they had agreed to work in shifts while being hired. Read More

2. Meet Jagjit Singh, The Genius Who Transformed His Maruti 800 Into A Stunning Convertible

I think enthusiasm needs to operate on a whole new level for someone to literally - and I can't stress on this word enough - convert his second-hand Maruti into a convertible sports car!

Enter Jagjit Singh, an automobile businessman who managed this feat like it was no big deal. Singh, who is seventeen years old in the industry, has, to his credit, over 170 modified vehicles that he reworked for people with disabilities. Read more

3. Autorickshaw Driver Tries To Rape Unconscious Woman In An Ambulance On The Way To The Hospital

BCCL/representational image

An autorickshaw driver has been arrested for trying to rape a woman inside an ambulance while she was being taken to the hospital. The 42-year-old woman, told the doctor, who encouraged her to report the incident to the police. Since then, the police has arrested the perpetrator, Siddaraju, 32.

In the early hours of last Tuesday, the woman was being taken in the ambulance to a private hospital in Padmanabhanagar. Read more



4. Families Of 9/11 Victims Condemn Donald Trump's Muslim Ban, Call It 'Totally Unacceptable'

getty

The families of the 9/11 terrorist attack victims have strongly condemned Donald Trump's Muslim ban. They feel that the memory of those who were killed in the World Trade Centre attack should not be used to justify the Muslim ban on immigrants and refugees.

"This is totally unacceptable," said John Sigmund, whose sister Johanna Sigmund was killed inside the Twin Towers in New York, in 2001.



5. Padmavati Wasn’t The Only Reason For Khilji's Chittor Raid, Here're Six Facts About Her

Wikipedia Commons

There are a number of contesting stories about Padmavati aka Padmini. While on the one hand, the Rajput community maintains the sanctity of everything related to her, historians often say that her life was nothing but a poet's imagination.

Padmavat, a poem in Awadhi was written 1540, more than two hundred years after Khilji’s death (1316). Before Padmavat, none of the historical annals, whether the annals of Rajput history or the Islamic rulers history in India had the mention of Padmavati or any figure like her. The Rajasthani folklore songs about Padmavati are believed to be derived from the 16th Century 'Gora Badal Padmini Chaupai', a Rajput adaption of the Padmavat which presented it as a true tale. Read more