Here Are The 15 Countries Where Rex Tillerson Is Personally Invested
Here Are The 15 Countries Where Rex Tillerson Is Personally Invested
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Dan Alexander       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. While Donald Trump’s Secretary of State pick Rex Tillerson was the CEO of oil giant Exxon Mobil, the company did business in some of the most politically sensitive corners of the world, including Iraq, Kazakhstan, Angola and Russia. For his own personal investments, however, Tillerson has kept his money in far more stable regions. The vast majority of Tillerson’s net worth remains tied up Exxon Mobil. Nearly $230 million of what FORBES estimates is his $300 million fortune is composed of equity in Exxon. He owns more than $15 million of Texas real estate, according to local property records and the financial disclosure report he submitted to the U.S. Office of Government Ethics earlier this month. He holds at least $15 million in diversified funds and cash accounts, over $2 million in municipal bonds in Texas and more than $2 million in individual U.S. stocks, like Apple, Caterpillar and Goldman Sachs. But over the years, Tillerson has also expanded outside of the United States. Tillerson has stakes worth $1,000 or more in companies from 15 countries, according to the financial disclosure report. In a letter to an ethics official, Tillerson promised to cash out his Exxon shares and sell off his other stakes within 90 days of his confirmation. Tillerson is invested in more businesses in Japan than any other country outside of the United States. His most valuable Japanese investment is a chunk of Honda worth more than $50,000. He owns shares in the East Japan Railway Company and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone worth more than $15,000. Tillerson has also invested in two funds tailored to track the Japanese economy. The Secretary of State nominee has direct holdings in nine French businesses, including one of Exxon’s competitors, Total S.A. Tillerson also holds a stake worth more than $15,000 in rival Royal Dutch Shell, based in the Netherlands. Despite all of Trump’s tough talk on China, Tillerson is invested in nine companies there. He owns between $15,000 and $50,000 worth of stock in Alibaba, the Amazon of China. Its founder Jack Ma met with the president-elect in Trump Tower on Monday and discussed how small businesses in the United States could sell more products through Alibaba. Tillerson also owns shares of companies based in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Hong Kong, Italy, Spain and Denmark. He has no direct investments anywhere in Africa, Latin America or the Middle East. Although he has received a lot of attention for his connections to Russia, Tillerson only has one direct investment in a Russian company, Yandex. His stake of the Russian competitor to Google is worth less than $15,000. Still, Tillerson will remain highly exposed to Putin’s country until he cashes out his stake in Exxon, which has significant oil interests in Russia.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

While Donald Trump’s Secretary of State pick Rex Tillerson was the CEO of oil giant Exxon Mobil, the company did business in some of the most politically sensitive corners of the world, including Iraq, Kazakhstan, Angola and Russia. For his own personal investments, however, Tillerson has kept his money in far more stable regions.

The vast majority of Tillerson’s net worth remains tied up Exxon Mobil. Nearly $230 million of what FORBES estimates is his $300 million fortune is composed of equity in Exxon. He owns more than $15 million of Texas real estate, according to local property records and the financial disclosure report he submitted to the U.S. Office of Government Ethics earlier this month. He holds at least $15 million in diversified funds and cash accounts, over $2 million in municipal bonds in Texas and more than $2 million in individual U.S. stocks, like Apple, Caterpillar and Goldman Sachs. But over the years, Tillerson has also expanded outside of the United States.

Tillerson has stakes worth $1,000 or more in companies from 15 countries, according to the financial disclosure report. In a letter to an ethics official, Tillerson promised to cash out his Exxon shares and sell off his other stakes within 90 days of his confirmation.

Tillerson is invested in more businesses in Japan than any other country outside of the United States. His most valuable Japanese investment is a chunk of Honda worth more than $50,000. He owns shares in the East Japan Railway Company and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone worth more than $15,000. Tillerson has also invested in two funds tailored to track the Japanese economy.

The Secretary of State nominee has direct holdings in nine French businesses, including one of Exxon’s competitors, Total S.A. Tillerson also holds a stake worth more than $15,000 in rival Royal Dutch Shell, based in the Netherlands.

Despite all of Trump’s tough talk on China, Tillerson is invested in nine companies there. He owns between $15,000 and $50,000 worth of stock in Alibaba, the Amazon of China. Its founder Jack Ma met with the president-elect in Trump Tower on Monday and discussed how small businesses in the United States could sell more products through Alibaba.

Tillerson also owns shares of companies based in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Hong Kong, Italy, Spain and Denmark. He has no direct investments anywhere in Africa, Latin America or the Middle East.

Although he has received a lot of attention for his connections to Russia, Tillerson only has one direct investment in a Russian company, Yandex. His stake of the Russian competitor to Google is worth less than $15,000. Still, Tillerson will remain highly exposed to Putin’s country until he cashes out his stake in Exxon, which has significant oil interests in Russia.

Find me on Twitter or Facebook.