Super Bowl LI: What You Need To Know
Super Bowl LI: What You Need To Know
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Emily Drewry       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. It's that time of year again: fast food retailers are prepping their employees, marketers are anxiously promoting their commercials , and athletes are chiming in on who will take home the biggest honor in the world of football. Super Bowl LI is only a few days away, and it's shaping up to be a good one. Will Tom Brady accept the Lombardi Trophy from Roger Goodell? Or will Matt Ryan pull off a win ? And finally: what will Lady Gaga do at halftime? With so many questions swirling, we asked Forbes senior editor Kurt Badenhousen to join us for a Twitter chat to talk about the 51st Super Bowl. Here's what we learned: The last 3 Super Bowls have been the highest rated ever, with 2015 coming out on top. Badenhousen's estimate for this year? "I think we fall just short of last year's 111.9 million audience." The Falcons were part of the lowest-rated Super Bowl in the past year, but the Patriot's big following might counteract. Despite that, the Cowboys or the Packers would have been a better draw. Viewership could especially drop if the game isn't close. 30-second ads costs between $5 million and $5.5 million this year . Just 20 years ago, the same length ad cost $1.2 million. Is the ROI worth it? Probably not, says Badenhousen. "    Trending on {{channel_name}}

It's that time of year again: fast food retailers are prepping their employees, marketers are anxiously promoting their commercials, and athletes are chiming in on who will take home the biggest honor in the world of football. Super Bowl LI is only a few days away, and it's shaping up to be a good one. Will Tom Brady accept the Lombardi Trophy from Roger Goodell? Or will this year’s leading MVP candidate Matt Ryan pull off a win? And finally: what will Lady Gaga do at halftime?

With so many questions swirling, we asked Forbes senior editor Kurt Badenhousen to join us for a Twitter chat to talk about the 51st Super Bowl.

Here's what we learned:

Ratings

The last 3 Super Bowls have been the highest rated ever, with 2015 coming out on top. Badenhousen's estimate for this year? "I think we fall just short of last year's 111.9 million audience." The Falcons were part of the lowest-rated Super Bowl in the past year, but the Patriot's big following might counteract. Despite that, the Cowboys or the Packers would have been a better draw. Viewership could especially drop if the game isn't close.

Ads

30-second ads costs between $5 million and $5.5 million this year. Just 20 years ago, the same length ad cost $1.2 million. Is the ROI worth it? Probably not, says Badenhousen. "Super Bowl commercials used to be bargain to reach 100 million viewers. Less so now with ad rates doubling over [the] past nine year," he says. "NBC's Sunday Night Football is a better deal based on audience reach."