Did Donald Trump Piss Off Two of Our Biggest Allies?
Did Donald Trump Piss Off Two of Our Biggest Allies?
Donald Trump has reportedly insulted two of the country’s biggest allies. And he’s only been president for 12 days. According to the , Trump had placed a call to Mexican President Enrique Pena Niéto to “patch things up” following a public dispute over the proposed border wall ; however, it appears the conversation was far from civil. During the phone call, Trump had reportedly threatened to invade Mexico if its military didn’t properly handle the "bad hombres down there”: “You aren’t doing enough to stop them. I think your military is scared,” Trump said to Pena Niéto, according to a portion of the transcript obtained by the . “Our military isn’t, so I just might send them down to take care of it.” The transcript immediately raised concerns about Trump’s approach when dealing with foreign leaders; however, the White House has denied the report. The White House tells me POTUS did not threaten to invade Mexico. https://t.co/93Np22bgUm Though the White House has yet to release an official statement, the Mexican Foreign Relations Department told the , "The negative statements you refer to did not occur during said telephone call. On the contrary, the tone was constructive." Though Trump’s conversation with the Mexican president may have gone better than expected—at least according to the governments involved—his phone call with the Australian Prime Minister much rockier, according to senior U.S. officials briefed on the Saturday call. Trump reportedly told Malcolm Turnbull that the US-Australia refugee resettlement agreement was “the worst deal ever,” and claimed Australia was looking to export the “next Boston bombers.” Officials told the the president also bragged about his electoral college win before abruptly ending the call about a half hour early. Turnbull has neither confirmed nor denied the reports. “I'm not going to comment on a conversation between myself and the President of the United States other than what we have said publicly," he said during a press conference Thursday . “You can surely understand the reasons for that. I appreciate your interest, but it's better that these things—these conversations are conducted candidly, frankly, privately. If you see reports of them, I'm not going to add to them.”

Donald Trump has reportedly insulted two of the country’s biggest allies. And he’s only been president for 12 days.

According to the Associated Press, Trump had placed a call to Mexican President Enrique Pena Niéto to “patch things up” following a public dispute over the proposed border wall; however, it appears the conversation was far from civil.

During the phone call, Trump had reportedly threatened to invade Mexico if its military didn’t properly handle the "bad hombres down there”: “You aren’t doing enough to stop them. I think your military is scared,” Trump said to Pena Niéto, according to a portion of the transcript obtained by the AP. “Our military isn’t, so I just might send them down to take care of it.”

The transcript immediately raised concerns about Trump’s approach when dealing with foreign leaders; however, the White House has denied the report.

The White House tells me POTUS did not threaten to invade Mexico. https://t.co/93Np22bgUm — Andrew Beatty (@AndrewBeatty) February 1, 2017

Though the White House has yet to release an official statement, the Mexican Foreign Relations Department told the AP, "The negative statements you refer to did not occur during said telephone call. On the contrary, the tone was constructive."

Though Trump’s conversation with the Mexican president may have gone better than expected—at least according to the governments involved—his phone call with the Australian Prime Minister much rockier, according to senior U.S. officials briefed on the Saturday call.

Trump reportedly told Malcolm Turnbull that the US-Australia refugee resettlement agreement was “the worst deal ever,” and claimed Australia was looking to export the “next Boston bombers.” Officials told the Washington Post the president also bragged about his electoral college win before abruptly ending the call about a half hour early.

Turnbull has neither confirmed nor denied the reports.

“I'm not going to comment on a conversation between myself and the President of the United States other than what we have said publicly," he said during a press conference Thursday. “You can surely understand the reasons for that. I appreciate your interest, but it's better that these things—these conversations are conducted candidly, frankly, privately. If you see reports of them, I'm not going to add to them.”