Larry Fitzgerald of Arizona Cardinals returning for 2017
Cardinals WR Fitzgerald returning for 14th season
Cardinals WR Fitzgerald returning for 14th season Super Bowl repeat? Patriots are built to get back 1 Related Bar raised high, as success of Patriots'€™ season defined by Super Bowl Belichick: 'Insulting' to say ban fueled Brady Patriots' Brady: RB White deserves MVP truck Brady's jersey missing after Super Bowl LI Falcons' Ryan on loss: 'There are no words' Ex-Titans TE Wycheck believes he has CTE Accused McKnight shooter pleads innocent Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related Best futures bets for Super Bowl LII With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Falcons primed to make another run in 2017 behind MVP Matt Ryan Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Behind the scenes of Super Bowl 51 Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win 1 Related Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. Historic duo: Belichick-Brady first to 5 SB wins Patriots RB James White sets Super Bowl records as surprise star Kyle Shanahan wraps up his Falcons tenure with questionable late playcalling Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI 'I don't know how he caught it': Inside Edelman's impossible grab See Julian Edelman's miraculous catch at every angle Patriots' victory parade set for Tuesday in Boston Players recall how the biggest plays of Super Bowl LI went down Grading Super Bowl LI referees: A great night all the way around Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Sports world reacts to Patriots' remarkable Super Bowl LI comeback New England tied for best ATS season ever With Super Bowl LI complete, 2017 NFL draft order is set Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback How the Patriots converted both two-point tries Lady Gaga makes high-flying entrance to Super Bowl halftime show Cardinals RB David Johnson recalls the veteran advice WR Larry Fitzgerald bestowed upon him that has led to improvements on and off the field. (0:57) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald says he will return for his 14th season in the NFL. Fitzgerald told ESPN's Jim Trotter on Wednesday that he will play out the final year on his contract with Arizona. Fitzgerald, who has played his whole career for the Cardinals, had said earlier in the week he had "pretty much made up my mind" but wasn't ready to announce the decision, which he added wasn't a tough one to make. The 10-time Pro Bowler led the NFL in receptions this season with 107. He also leads active receivers in career receptions with 1,125. Fitzgerald, 33, ranks ninth in NFL career receiving yards with 14,389. Another 1,000-yard season would put him third behind Jerry Rice, with 22,895, and Terrell Owens, with 15,934. Fitzgerald has eight career 1,000-yard seasons, including in 2016, when he totaled 1,023. Fitzgerald, speaking Tuesday at the Waste Management Phoenix Open after participating in the Special Olympics Open, said his body is never at 100 percent but that he feels "good" and his body is in the process of "coming back." The Cardinals and coach Bruce Arians have been waiting to hear decisions on whether Fitzgerald and quarterback Carson Palmer would return. "I feel very comfortable with where they're at and what's going to happen," Arians said Tuesday. "Like everybody else, I've got my fingers crossed, and I think when the juices start flowing and the injuries go away, they'll both be back, but there's nothing to confirm yet." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Cardinals RB David Johnson recalls the veteran advice WR Larry Fitzgerald bestowed upon him that has led to improvements on and off the field. (0:57)

Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald says he will return for his 14th season in the NFL.

Fitzgerald told ESPN's Jim Trotter on Wednesday that he will play out the final year on his contract with Arizona.

Fitzgerald, who has played his whole career for the Cardinals, had said earlier in the week he had "pretty much made up my mind" but wasn't ready to announce the decision, which he added wasn't a tough one to make.

Editor's Picks Larry Fitzgerald's decision changes Cardinals' offseason priorities With Larry Fitzgerald's news, the Cardinals don't have to make receiver a top offseason priority. Now they wait to hear Carson Palmer's plans.

Palmer denies report that Ariz. house is for sale Carson Palmer addressed rumors about his future with the Cardinals on Wednesday, denying a report that his Arizona home is for sale. 1 Related

The 10-time Pro Bowler led the NFL in receptions this season with 107. He also leads active receivers in career receptions with 1,125.

Fitzgerald, 33, ranks ninth in NFL career receiving yards with 14,389. Another 1,000-yard season would put him third behind Jerry Rice, with 22,895, and Terrell Owens, with 15,934. Fitzgerald has eight career 1,000-yard seasons, including in 2016, when he totaled 1,023.

Fitzgerald, speaking Tuesday at the Waste Management Phoenix Open after participating in the Special Olympics Open, said his body is never at 100 percent but that he feels "good" and his body is in the process of "coming back."

The Cardinals and coach Bruce Arians have been waiting to hear decisions on whether Fitzgerald and quarterback Carson Palmer would return.

"I feel very comfortable with where they're at and what's going to happen," Arians said Tuesday. "Like everybody else, I've got my fingers crossed, and I think when the juices start flowing and the injuries go away, they'll both be back, but there's nothing to confirm yet."

Information from ESPN's Josh Weinfuss was used in this report.