People are very worried by this video of Donald Trump
People are very worried by this video of Donald Trump
And no, that's not because of his casual disregard for fact, or his utterly incomprehensible incoherence. It's because During a briefing in the White House on cybersecurity, Trump introduced the man he's chosen to fight the War on Hacking: former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. But then the above video happened... With that I wanna introduce Rudy Giuliani and he's gonna be working with Jared Kushner and with Tom Bossert who are also here. Rudy's very much of an expert on cyber security: it's been a very important thing to him, and to what he does and maybe I'll ask Rudy to say a few words. He says this Then he looks around desperately to his left and right, saying: Where's Rudy? When the guy on his right (Homeland Security chief General John Kelly) clearly took pity on him and pointed out the obvious, Trump proceeded to swing his big wig back to the left and say: Oh there's Rudy. However, lucidity didn't seem to return to his eyes (relatively speaking) until a few seconds after Giuliani began talking. A few 'haters and losers' on Twitter have inevitably kicked off with the cracks. @gangleri2000 But how couldn't Trump see him???? Is Trump suffering from dementia? @tommyxtopher  @tommyxtopher So ..., Rudy's right in front of him, but he pats Kelly's hand like, "Okay, found you."  @tommyxtopher  @ParkerMolloy Actually his language use,limited vocab & general behaviour etc really is a sign of early dementia. Not joking.  @tommyxtopher  @PrincessBravato Where's Rudy? pic.twitter.com/EwW1Ojcovx  @tommyxtopher  @MsSarahPaulson he needs glasses, and fresh new neurons.  @tommyxtopher I think believing Rudy Giuliani an expert in cyber security is more indicative of dementia                     Keep scrolling for next article

Some Twitter users are joking about President Donald Trump's mental state again.

And no, that's not because of his casual disregard for fact, or his utterly incomprehensible incoherence.

It's because he could not locate the guy sitting right in front of him.

During a briefing in the White House on cybersecurity, Trump introduced the man he's chosen to fight the War on Hacking: former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.

But then the above video happened...

With that I wanna introduce Rudy Giuliani and he's gonna be working with Jared Kushner and with Tom Bossert who are also here. Rudy's very much of an expert on cyber security: it's been a very important thing to him, and to what he does and maybe I'll ask Rudy to say a few words.

He says this sitting across the table from Rudy, directly facing him.

Then he looks around desperately to his left and right, saying:

Where's Rudy?

When the guy on his right (Homeland Security chief General John Kelly) clearly took pity on him and pointed out the obvious, Trump proceeded to swing his big wig back to the left and say:

Oh there's Rudy.

However, lucidity didn't seem to return to his eyes (relatively speaking) until a few seconds after Giuliani began talking.

A few 'haters and losers' on Twitter have inevitably kicked off with the cracks.

@gangleri2000 But how couldn't Trump see him???? Is Trump suffering from dementia? @tommyxtopher — (((Vegar))) K. (@v36ar) January 31, 2017

@tommyxtopher So ..., Rudy's right in front of him, but he pats Kelly's hand like, "Okay, found you." — sakumar (@sanjaya_kumar) January 31, 2017

@tommyxtopher @ParkerMolloy Actually his language use,limited vocab & general behaviour etc really is a sign of early dementia. Not joking. — Matthew Frost (@Winston_SmithJr) January 31, 2017

Although, as this guy pointed out...

@tommyxtopher I think believing Rudy Giuliani an expert in cyber security is more indicative of dementia — Jesse Walson (@JesseAWalson) January 31, 2017





More: This picture sums up everytime we see the news at the moment

More: Donald Trump signing executive orders has become a glorious meme