O'Reilly: Dems' Blind Opposition to Trump Is 'Harmful to America'

O'Reilly: Dems' Blind Opposition to Trump Is 'Harmful to America' // // // // The Democratic Party is devolving from the "loyal opposition" to simply the opposition, and it's harming the country, Bill O'Reilly said in his Talking Points Memo tonight. He explained that some Democrats will oppose President Donald Trump, no matter what he does, and are intent on pushing their agenda. O'Reilly pointed to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's "dishonest" comments on illegal immigrant violence and her criticism of capitalism. He added that Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA) also recently made controversial remarks, calling for Democrats to stand up against the Trump administration. "What we've got to do is fight in Congress, fight in the courts, fight in the streets, fight online, fight at the ballot box," Kaine said on MSNBC . He said that Pelosi, Kaine and Democratic leadership fail to see that kind of rhetoric pushes away Americans who are not ideological. "Talking Points wants a strong Democratic party, as well as a vibrant Republican Party. That's the way our nation functions best," O'Reilly said. "But right now, there's a political civil war that is actually harming the USA. And until politicians stop the deceit and embrace policies that help all Americans, that war will continue." Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

The Democratic Party is devolving from the "loyal opposition" to simply the opposition, and it's harming the country, Bill O'Reilly said in his Talking Points Memo tonight.

He explained that some Democrats will oppose President Donald Trump, no matter what he does, and are intent on pushing their agenda.

O'Reilly pointed to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's "dishonest" comments on illegal immigrant violence and her criticism of capitalism.

He added that Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA) also recently made controversial remarks, calling for Democrats to stand up against the Trump administration.

"What we've got to do is fight in Congress, fight in the courts, fight in the streets, fight online, fight at the ballot box," Kaine said on MSNBC.

He said that Pelosi, Kaine and Democratic leadership fail to see that kind of rhetoric pushes away Americans who are not ideological.

"Talking Points wants a strong Democratic party, as well as a vibrant Republican Party. That's the way our nation functions best," O'Reilly said. "But right now, there's a political civil war that is actually harming the USA. And until politicians stop the deceit and embrace policies that help all Americans, that war will continue."

Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

Flynn: 'We're Officially Putting Iran on Notice' After Missile Test

Jon Stewart Resurfaces to Bash Trump for 'Purposeful, Vindictive Chaos'

'Born the Hard Way': Budweiser's Super Bowl Ad Centers on Immigration