Congress proposed 82 tax bills in January. Here are the highlights
Congress proposed 82 tax bills in January. Here are the highlights
Congress frequently gets criticized for doing nothing. Thanks to partisan gridlock and a cushy Congressional schedule—which give them time to go out and listen to constituents—Congress’s approval rating is under 20%, according to Gallup . So far in 2017, two bills have been passed and signed into law by President Trump—one granting a waiver for his Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, to serve, and another that allows private sector leaders to work with the government. At the same time another 988 have been introduced. Of those 988, Congress.gov catalogs 82 of them as being tax-related. With less than 5% of a typical Congress’s bills ever becoming law, it’s not likely that more than a handful will make it to the Oval Office’s Sharpie. Still, looking at them shows a lot about what our elected officials do all day and the tax priorities of the 115th Congress that’s been in session less than a month. Here are some highlights so far. Some of them are far out, like a bill to repeal the income tax without a solution, but some of them echo presidential campaign promises, such as repealing the estate tax, which only affects estates over $5.45 million—fewer than 5,000 families every year. S.108 Medical Device Access and Innovation Protection Act Sen. Hatch, Orrin G. (R-UT) 9 This bill takes away the excise tax on medical devices. It has bipartisan approval and is similar to a bill in the House, H.R.184, which has 245 cosponsors, 30 of which are Democrats. The tax was suspended for two years in February 2016.  H.R.540 Presidential Tax Disclosure Act of 2017 Rep. Cicilline, David N. (D-RI-1) 20 This bill would require the current president to release tax returns. Only Democrats have cosponsored. Since the early 1970s, all Presidents have released their tax returns publicly. This has become a heated issue since President Trump has refused to release his own. There is also a petition, created on Jan. 20, calling for the release of Trump’s returns posted to the White House’s We the People petition site ; it has over 437,000 signatures. H.R.399 Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act Rep. Doggett, Lloyd (D-TX-35) 43 This bill would make it so a company wouldn’t be able to deduct more than $1 million of an  employee’s salary, including current and former officers and directors. The exemption for performance goals and commission would be canceled as well. It only has Democratic cosponsors. Typically, salaries a business pays are deductible as business expenses, although if they are to the owner of a business, they may be under question.  H.R.25 FairTax Act of 2017 Rep. Woodall, Rob (R-GA-7) 35 This tax bill would impose a national sales tax of 23% in 2019 and would replace the income tax system currently in place. H.R.29 Tax Code Termination Act Rep. Goodlatte, Bob (R-VA-6) 45 Similar to Rep. Woodall’s bill, this one simply repeals and delays. It has no cost estimate yet, but it would likely be high. H.R.173 Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2017 Rep. Kelly, Mike (R-PA-3) 59 This bill, which has bipartisan support, would repeal the ‘Cadillac tax’ that serves as a luxury tax for health plans that are deemed excessively fancy.  H.R.198 Death Tax Repeal Act of 2017 Rep. Thornberry, Mac (R-TX-13) 56 This Republican bill follows President Trump’s wish to abolish the estate tax, which taxes estates larger than $5.45 million. This affects around 4,400 estates every year. It would also repeal federal taxes on gifts of more than $14,000 , and generation-skipping transfer taxes, which are often imposed in cases where an estate tax is not. It is not commonly imposed, because only amounts larger than $2 million are taxed.  H.R.308 Protect Family Farms and Businesses Act Rep. Davidson, Warren (R-OH-8) 33 This bill prohibits the IRS from using funds to enforce estate, gift, and GST taxes that arise from the sales of family businesses. It’s very similar to the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2017, but uses kneecapping of the IRS instead of a repeal, and focuses itself to sales of business.  H.R.367 Hearing Protection Act of 2017 Rep. Duncan, Jeff (R-SC-3) 82 Firearm suppressors, often called silencers, are subject to enhanced background checks and a $200 tax. This bill positions lifting silencer restrictions as a public health issue for hearing-related ailments like tinnitus.

Congress frequently gets criticized for doing nothing. Thanks to partisan gridlock and a cushy Congressional schedule—which give them time to go out and listen to constituents—Congress’s approval rating is under 20%, according to Gallup.

So far in 2017, two bills have been passed and signed into law by President Trump—one granting a waiver for his Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, to serve, and another that allows private sector leaders to work with the government. At the same time another 988 have been introduced.

Of those 988, Congress.gov catalogs 82 of them as being tax-related. With less than 5% of a typical Congress’s bills ever becoming law, it’s not likely that more than a handful will make it to the Oval Office’s Sharpie. Still, looking at them shows a lot about what our elected officials do all day and the tax priorities of the 115th Congress that’s been in session less than a month.

Here are some highlights so far. Some of them are far out, like a bill to repeal the income tax without a solution, but some of them echo presidential campaign promises, such as repealing the estate tax, which only affects estates over $5.45 million—fewer than 5,000 families every year.

Repealing an excise tax on medical devices

Official name: S.108 Medical Device Access and Innovation Protection Act

Sponsor: Sen. Hatch, Orrin G. (R-UT)

Cosponsors: 9

This bill takes away the excise tax on medical devices. It has bipartisan approval and is similar to a bill in the House, H.R.184, which has 245 cosponsors, 30 of which are Democrats. The tax was suspended for two years in February 2016.

Compelling presidents to release their tax returns

Official Name: H.R.540 Presidential Tax Disclosure Act of 2017

Sponsor: Rep. Cicilline, David N. (D-RI-1)

Cosponsors: 20

This bill would require the current president to release tax returns. Only Democrats have cosponsored. Since the early 1970s, all Presidents have released their tax returns publicly. This has become a heated issue since President Trump has refused to release his own. There is also a petition, created on Jan. 20, calling for the release of Trump’s returns posted to the White House’s We the People petition site; it has over 437,000 signatures.

Cap tax deductibility of salaries more than $1 million for businesses

Official Name: H.R.399 Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act

Sponsor: Rep. Doggett, Lloyd (D-TX-35)

Cosponsors: 43

This bill would make it so a company wouldn’t be able to deduct more than $1 million of an employee’s salary, including current and former officers and directors. The exemption for performance goals and commission would be canceled as well. It only has Democratic cosponsors. Typically, salaries a business pays are deductible as business expenses, although if they are to the owner of a business, they may be under question.

Repeals the income tax and implements a national sales tax of 23%

Official Name: H.R.25 FairTax Act of 2017

Sponsor: Rep. Woodall, Rob (R-GA-7)

Cosponsors: 35

This tax bill would impose a national sales tax of 23% in 2019 and would replace the income tax system currently in place.

Repeals the income tax and replace with something to be thought up by 2021

Official Name: H.R.29 Tax Code Termination Act

Sponsor: Rep. Goodlatte, Bob (R-VA-6)

Cosponsors: 45

Similar to Rep. Woodall’s bill, this one simply repeals and delays. It has no cost estimate yet, but it would likely be high.

Repeals the ‘Cadillac Tax’ that puts a 40% excise tax on high-cost healthcare

Official Name: H.R.173 Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2017

Sponsor: Rep. Kelly, Mike (R-PA-3)

Cosponsors: 59

This bill, which has bipartisan support, would repeal the ‘Cadillac tax’ that serves as a luxury tax for health plans that are deemed excessively fancy.

Repeals the estate tax, gift tax, and generation-skipping transfer (GST) taxes

Official Name: H.R.198 Death Tax Repeal Act of 2017

Sponsor: Rep. Thornberry, Mac (R-TX-13)

Cosponsors: 56

This Republican bill follows President Trump’s wish to abolish the estate tax, which taxes estates larger than $5.45 million. This affects around 4,400 estates every year. It would also repeal federal taxes on gifts of more than $14,000, and generation-skipping transfer taxes, which are often imposed in cases where an estate tax is not. It is not commonly imposed, because only amounts larger than $2 million are taxed.

Read More