White House warns Iran 'officially on notice' following 'destabilising' ballistic missile test



White House warns Iran 'officially on notice' following 'destabilising' ballistic missile test

Updated

The White House says it is officially putting Iran on notice following a ballistic missile test over the weekend.

Key points: Iran has confirmed it tested a new missile

US says recent deals struck between Iran, US and UN have "emboldened" Iran

Tehran says the test didn't contravene a UN resolution

United States President Donald Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, accused Iran of "destabilising behaviour" by testing the missile and issued a stern warning.

"As of today we're officially putting Iran on notice," Mr Flynn said.

It was the Trump administration's sharpest threat against a US adversary since taking office on January 20, a warning that could foreshadow more aggressive economic and diplomatic measures against Iran.

Mr Flynn said deals struck between Iran and the US and Iran and the UN in recent years has left Tehran "feeling emboldened", instead of "being thankful".

Iran confirmed on Wednesday it had tested a new missile but said it did not breach a nuclear accord reached with world powers or a UN Security Council resolution that endorsed the pact.

Mr Flynn said the missile launch was in defiance of the 2015 Security Council resolution.

The Islamic Republic has test-fired several ballistic missiles since the nuclear deal in 2015, but the latest test was the first since Mr Trump took office last month.

Questions over Flynn's approach

Mr Flynn, in his first appearance in the White House press briefing room, said the missile launch and an attack against a Saudi naval vessel by Iran-allied Houthi militants off the coast of Yemen underscored Iran's unacceptable behaviour across the Middle East.

Richard Nephew, a former Obama administration official who was a US negotiator with Iran on the deal, said Mr Flynn's comment could backfire.

"I think this will create an impetus for the Iranians to 'resist' and 'defy' more and that could well create an escalatory cycle with Iran," he said.

"Being tough with Iran is one thing, but you have to back it up and bring partners with you. Is Flynn prepared to deal with what comes from that?" he said.

Mr Trump has frequently criticised the Iran nuclear deal negotiated by the administration of his predecessor, Barack Obama.

The new President has called the deal weak and ineffective.

While campaigning in September, then-candidate Mr Trump vowed that any Iranian vessels that harass the US Navy would be "shot out of the water" if he was elected.

Iran is one of the seven Muslim majority nations on Mr Trump's travel ban list.

ABC/Reuters

Topics: world-politics, government-and-politics, donald-trump, unrest-conflict-and-war, united-states, iran-islamic-republic-of

First posted