Romania's government legalises corruption
Romania's new left-wing government legalises corruption


Romania's new government has sparked widespread anger after decriminilising official misconduct - in spite of warnings that it will make corruption legal.

The move defies mass protests and warnings from prosecutors and the country's president.

Leaders of the centre-left Social Democratic Party and the junior Alliance of Democratic Liberals are currently facing corruption charges that bar them serving as ministers.

Social Democrat chairman Liviu Dragnea was unable to become prime minister because in April 2016 he received a two-year suspended jail sentence for vote rigging

The nation's president, Klaus Iohannis, called the measure's adoption 'a day of mourning for the rule of law'.

An emergency ordinance decriminalising abuse in office was published at 3am today in the official government monitor and will soon automatically become law.

It alarmed critics, who hit out at the hour and the speed in which the centre-left government, less than one month in office, passed the proposal - which will benefit government allies and officials facing corruption charges.

The nation's president, Klaus Iohannis, called the measure's adoption 'a day of mourning for the rule of law'

Dan Brett, an associate professor at the Open University, said: 'It shows that the government is willing to use backdoor methods with no scrutiny or checks and balances in order to protect and promote itself.'

In recent years, Romania been touted as a regional leader for a fierce anti-corruption fight that has targeted the rich and the powerful, but the drive has proved unpopular with politicians.

Social Democrat chairman Liviu Dragnea was unable to become prime minister because in April 2016 he received a two-year suspended jail sentence for vote rigging.

On Tuesday, he went on trial for abuse of power while he was president of the Teleorman local council from 2006 to 2012. He denies wrongdoing.

Justice Minister Florin Iordache said the emergency ordinance will decriminalise cases of official misconduct in which the damages are valued at less than 200,000 leu - the equivalent of £37,000.

The government on Tuesday evening also sent to Parliament a proposal that will pardon thousands of prisoners.

It says the measure, which will free about 3,000 convicts, will help reduce overcrowding in prisons.

Protests erupted in cities around the country after the emergency pardon plan was made public last month and chief anti-corruption prosecutor Laura Codruta Kovesi said it 'will render the anti-corruption fight irrelevant'.