Kentucky Teacher Gets Prison Time for Sex With Underage Student
Kentucky Teacher Gets Prison Time for Sex With Underage Student
A former Kentucky teacher accused of having sex with a teen student in 2015 has been sentenced to one year in prison. Brandi Lynn Vaughn was sentenced Friday after previously pleading guilty to using an electronic device to "induce a minor to engage in sexual activities," the  reported Monday. Vaughn was arrested Aug. 25, 2015 and reportedly confessed to investigators that she twice had sex with a 16-year-old male student, once at a state park and once at her home. Vaughn, who was married at the time, was a science teacher at Madison Southern High School. Teacher jailed for having sex with a student https://t.co/0g7aJFvUny  pic.twitter.com/lkfICxsonh Following the guilty plea last November, prosecutors agreed to drop two counts of first-degree sexual abuse, two counts of third-degree sodomy, and one count each of tampering with evidence and third-degree rape. Each charge qualifies as a Class D felony. Vaughn is not eligible for parole until "at least 20 percent" of the sentence has been served, the  noted . Vaughn will also be added to the sex offender registry. "You're talking about an adult and a child, and she has a position of authority over this child," Berea Police Sgt. Jake Reed told  in 2015. "She's his teacher. So obviously anything like this we take very seriously. It's a sad situation for everybody involved. It's unfortunate but these things do happen sometimes." Madison Circuit Judge William G. Clouse said Friday that Vaughn still stands to have a "successful life" following her sentence. Vaughn's attorney, Michael Eubanks, said that she has "nothing but remorse" for her behavior. As of Monday afternoon, the  reports that Vaughn is being housed at Madison County Detention Center.

A former Kentucky teacher accused of having sex with a teen student in 2015 has been sentenced to one year in prison. Brandi Lynn Vaughn was sentenced Friday after previously pleading guilty to using an electronic device to "induce a minor to engage in sexual activities," the Richmond Register reported Monday.

Vaughn was arrested Aug. 25, 2015 and reportedly confessed to investigators that she twice had sex with a 16-year-old male student, once at a state park and once at her home. Vaughn, who was married at the time, was a science teacher at Madison Southern High School.

Teacher jailed for having sex with a student https://t.co/0g7aJFvUny pic.twitter.com/lkfICxsonh — Cristóbal Delatorre (@Cristo8444) February 1, 2017

Following the guilty plea last November, prosecutors agreed to drop two counts of first-degree sexual abuse, two counts of third-degree sodomy, and one count each of tampering with evidence and third-degree rape. Each charge qualifies as a Class D felony. Vaughn is not eligible for parole until "at least 20 percent" of the sentence has been served, the Register noted. Vaughn will also be added to the sex offender registry.

"You're talking about an adult and a child, and she has a position of authority over this child," Berea Police Sgt. Jake Reed told WKYT in 2015. "She's his teacher. So obviously anything like this we take very seriously. It's a sad situation for everybody involved. It's unfortunate but these things do happen sometimes."

Madison Circuit Judge William G. Clouse said Friday that Vaughn still stands to have a "successful life" following her sentence. Vaughn's attorney, Michael Eubanks, said that she has "nothing but remorse" for her behavior. As of Monday afternoon, the Register reports that Vaughn is being housed at Madison County Detention Center.