Beyoncé's Coachella performance will be pretty interesting, according to Twitter
Beyoncé's Coachella performance will be pretty interesting, according to Twitter
More like Preggochella. As you probably heard, Beyonce and Jay Z announced that they are expecting twins with a earthy Instagram post that gained over three million likes in an hour. And, while most people are celebrating the announcement, many are left wondering what this will mean for Beyonce's headlining Coachella performance which was set to begin on April 15. SEE ALSO: Beyoncé's pregnancy announcement will save America, at least according to Twitter The announcement not only came as a surprise to the world, but apparently, according to the people running the annual music festival had no idea either. But that doesn't mean the internet was left speechless as it put two and two together. Some people made jokes, while some were left wondering what it meant for their chance to see Queen Bey in action.  When you're excited Beyoncé is pregnant then you realize you're not quite sure what that means for the Coachella tickets you bought pic.twitter.com/oB3ePPv24s — TheShadeRoom (@TheShadeRoom) February 1, 2017  Beyonce handing the Coachella people her doctors note to not perform pic.twitter.com/8V51PynB7P — Ka'Troy Kardashian (@mrLdavis) February 1, 2017  Beyoncé hangs up on her doctor in frustration, refusing the silly medical advice that giving birth during a Coachella set would be "extra." — BEYONCE FANFICTION (@BEYONCEFANFIC) February 1, 2017  Let's not forget Beyonce will headline Coachella and NOW expecting twins 🚼🚼 That's the commitment and drive for 2017 and life! pic.twitter.com/BSMwnvXs6w — Z I N D Z I ❤️ (@Zindzi_K) February 1, 2017  I hope Beyoncé cancels her Coachella performance because of this. Mostly because I can't be there. #petty  #twins  pic.twitter.com/hQonZQ48T5 — Victor Castillo (@_vixtorious) February 1, 2017  Beyonce knew I can't attend this year Coachella so she got her self pregnant so quick to have an excuse to cancel pic.twitter.com/zoW4rF0wJZ — Amer. (@amzness) February 1, 2017  Beyoncé's Coachella performance will be her giving birth to the future of mankind live on stage. — Russ Bengtson (@russbengtson) February 1, 2017  Destiny's Child has been rebranded as Beyoncé's Child, with their first appearance being a live birth at Coachella. — kaysuhdilla (@kaysuhdilla) February 1, 2017  "Yo you heard Beyonce having Twins?!" Coachella Producers: pic.twitter.com/FhFxgjGQ7e — Lynx (@MaAdLynx) February 1, 2017  Nothing would be more Coachella than  Beyonce performing an all acoustic set while sitting barefoot the whole time with a flower wreath on. — Larry Beyince (@DragonflyJonez) February 1, 2017 BONUS: Beyoncé's VMA performance confirms she's still your queen

More like Preggochella.

As you probably heard, Beyonce and Jay Z announced that they are expecting twins with a earthy Instagram post that gained over three million likes in an hour. And, while most people are celebrating the announcement, many are left wondering what this will mean for Beyonce's headlining Coachella performance which was set to begin on April 15.

The announcement not only came as a surprise to the world, but apparently, according to TMZ, the people running the annual music festival had no idea either.

But that doesn't mean the internet was left speechless as it put two and two together. Some people made jokes, while some were left wondering what it meant for their chance to see Queen Bey in action.

When you're excited Beyoncé is pregnant then you realize you're not quite sure what that means for the Coachella tickets you bought pic.twitter.com/oB3ePPv24s — TheShadeRoom (@TheShadeRoom) February 1, 2017

Beyonce handing the Coachella people her doctors note to not perform pic.twitter.com/8V51PynB7P — Ka'Troy Kardashian (@mrLdavis) February 1, 2017

Beyoncé hangs up on her doctor in frustration, refusing the silly medical advice that giving birth during a Coachella set would be "extra." — BEYONCE FANFICTION (@BEYONCEFANFIC) February 1, 2017

Let's not forget Beyonce will headline Coachella and NOW expecting twins 🚼🚼



That's the commitment and drive for 2017 and life! pic.twitter.com/BSMwnvXs6w — Z I N D Z I ❤️ (@Zindzi_K) February 1, 2017

I hope Beyoncé cancels her Coachella performance because of this. Mostly because I can't be there. #petty #twins pic.twitter.com/hQonZQ48T5 — Victor Castillo (@_vixtorious) February 1, 2017

Beyonce knew I can't attend this year Coachella so she got her self pregnant so quick to have an excuse to cancel pic.twitter.com/zoW4rF0wJZ — Amer. (@amzness) February 1, 2017

Beyoncé's Coachella performance will be her giving birth to the future of mankind live on stage. — Russ Bengtson (@russbengtson) February 1, 2017

Destiny's Child has been rebranded as Beyoncé's Child, with their first appearance being a live birth at Coachella. — kaysuhdilla (@kaysuhdilla) February 1, 2017

"Yo you heard Beyonce having Twins?!"



Coachella Producers: pic.twitter.com/FhFxgjGQ7e — Lynx (@MaAdLynx) February 1, 2017

Nothing would be more Coachella than Beyonce performing an all acoustic set while sitting barefoot the whole time with a flower wreath on. — Larry Beyince (@DragonflyJonez) February 1, 2017