Donald Trump uses Black History Month speech to attack CNN and boast about his popularity
Donald Trump uses Black History Month speech to attack CNN and boast about his popularity
Popular videos    Brexit bill: MPs vote to trigger Article 50      US officially puts Iran on notice after ballistic missile launch      Trump tells GOP to 'go nuclear' to stop Democrats blocking SC pick      Watch Donald Trump's speech marking Black History Month in full   Donald Trump used a speech marking Black History Month to boast about his popularity and accuse US news outlets of being "fake news". Delivering his address to a group of African-Americans at the White House , Mr Trump briefly praised civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr, before going on to attack a story falsely claiming he had removed Mr King’s bust from the Oval Office.    Watch Donald Trump's speech marking Black History Month in full “You read all about Dr. Martin Luther King a week ago when somebody said I took the statue out of my office,” he said. “And it turned out that that was fake news.” “So I think it was a disgrace, but that's the way the press is,” he added. The billionaire honoured Frederick Douglass, a 19th Century African American who fought for the abolition of slavery after escaping from a plantation in Maryland. Mr Trump said the social reformer, writer and orator who died in 1895, as “somebody who’s done an amazing job that is being recognised more and more”. He also praised the “big impact” of abolotionist Harriet Tubman and Rosa Parks , known as "the first lady of civil rights", whose refusal to give up her bus seat to a white person prompted nationwide civil disobedience in 1955. But then Mr Trump moved on to tell his audience he did not watch “fake news” on CNN. In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump               In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump    London   An image of President Donald Trump is seen on a placard during the Women's March in London, England   Getty     Sydney   A view of the skywriting word reading 'Trump' as thousands rally in support of equal rights in Sydney, New South Wales   EPA     Rome   People shout and hold signs during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome   Getty Images     London   A protester holds a placard during the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Marseille   A placard ready 'Pussy grabs back' is attached to the handle bar of a bike during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Bangkok   A young Thai girl holds a "women's rights are human rights" sign at Roadhouse BBQ restaurant where many of the Bangkok Womens March participants gathered in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     Bangkok   A Thai woman takes a photo of a "hate is not great" sign at the women's solidarity gathering in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     Bangkok   American expats and travellers gather with the international community in Bangkok at the Roadhouse BBQ restaurant to stand in solidarity in Bangkok, Thailand   Getty Images     London   Protetesters gather outside The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Marseille   Women's March at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Marseille   Protestors hold placards reading 'My body my choice, my vote my voice' during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France   Getty Images     Rome   A person holds a sign during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome   Getty Images     Kolkata   Activist Sarah Annay Williamson holds a placard and shouts slogan during the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India   AP     Kolkata   Activists participate in the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India   AP     London   A Women's March placards are rested on a bench outside the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     London   A women carries her placard ahead of the Women's March in London, England   Getty Images     Manila   Women protesters shout slogans while displaying placards during a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President Donald Trump, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Berlin   Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany   AP     Melbourne   Protesters take part in the Melbourne rally to protest against the Trump Inauguration in Melbourne, Australia   Getty Images     Macau   Protesters take part in the Women's March rally in Macau   Getty Images     Melbourne   Womens march on Melbourne protestors marching during a rally where rights groups marched in solidarity with Americans to speak out against misogyny, bigotry and hatred   Rex     Macau   Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau   Getty Images     Macau   Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau, Macau. The Women's March originated in Washington DC but soon spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights   Getty Images     Manila   A mother carries her son as they join a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States in suburban Quezon city northeast of Manila, Philippines   AP     Sydney   An infant is held up at a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydney   A woman attends a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydney   A woman expresses her Anti-Trump views in Sydney, Australia   Getty Images     Sydeney   Protesters demonstrate against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia.  The marches in Australia were organised to show solidarity with those marching on Washington DC and around the world in defense of women's rights and human rights   Getty     London   Protesters march from The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square towards Trafalgar Square during the Women's March in London, England   Getty     London   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters  "I don't watch CNN, so I don't get to see you as much," he said. "I don't like watching fake news. But Fox has treated me very nice, wherever Fox is, thank you." Echoing his campaign speeches, Mr Trump focused on how he would improve the “inner city”, announcing he intended to improve schools and make communities safer “with law enforcement”. Despite picking up eight per cent of the black vote to Hillary Clinton’s 89 per cent, the President claimed he was extremely popular with African Americans. “If you remember, I wasn't going to do well with the African-American community, and after they heard me speaking and talking about the inner city and lots of other things, we ended up getting, I won't go into details, but we ended up getting substantially more than other candidates who had run in the past years,” he said. More about: Donald Trump Black History Month White House United States Comments

Donald Trump used a speech marking Black History Month to boast about his popularity and accuse US news outlets of being "fake news".

Delivering his address to a group of African-Americans at the White House, Mr Trump briefly praised civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr, before going on to attack a story falsely claiming he had removed Mr King’s bust from the Oval Office.

“You read all about Dr. Martin Luther King a week ago when somebody said I took the statue out of my office,” he said. “And it turned out that that was fake news.”

“So I think it was a disgrace, but that's the way the press is,” he added.

The billionaire honoured Frederick Douglass, a 19th Century African American who fought for the abolition of slavery after escaping from a plantation in Maryland.

Mr Trump said the social reformer, writer and orator who died in 1895, as “somebody who’s done an amazing job that is being recognised more and more”.

He also praised the “big impact” of abolotionist Harriet Tubman and Rosa Parks, known as "the first lady of civil rights", whose refusal to give up her bus seat to a white person prompted nationwide civil disobedience in 1955.

But then Mr Trump moved on to tell his audience he did not watch “fake news” on CNN.

In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump







32 show all In pictures: Women of the world march against Trump





























































1/32 London An image of President Donald Trump is seen on a placard during the Women's March in London, England Getty

2/32 Sydney A view of the skywriting word reading 'Trump' as thousands rally in support of equal rights in Sydney, New South Wales EPA

3/32 Rome People shout and hold signs during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome Getty Images

4/32 London A protester holds a placard during the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

5/32 Marseille A placard ready 'Pussy grabs back' is attached to the handle bar of a bike during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

6/32 Bangkok A young Thai girl holds a "women's rights are human rights" sign at Roadhouse BBQ restaurant where many of the Bangkok Womens March participants gathered in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

7/32 Bangkok A Thai woman takes a photo of a "hate is not great" sign at the women's solidarity gathering in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

8/32 Bangkok American expats and travellers gather with the international community in Bangkok at the Roadhouse BBQ restaurant to stand in solidarity in Bangkok, Thailand Getty Images

9/32 London Protetesters gather outside The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

10/32 Marseille Women's March at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

11/32 Marseille Protestors hold placards reading 'My body my choice, my vote my voice' during a 'Women's March' organized by Feminist and human rights groups in solidarity with women marching in Washington and around the world for their rights and against the reactionary politics of the newly sworn-in US President Donald Trump, at the Old Port (Vieux Port) of Marseille, southern France Getty Images

12/32 Rome A person holds a sign during a rally against US newly sworn-in President Donald Trump in Rome Getty Images

13/32 Kolkata Activist Sarah Annay Williamson holds a placard and shouts slogan during the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India AP

14/32 Kolkata Activists participate in the Women's March rally in Kolkata, India AP

15/32 London A Women's March placards are rested on a bench outside the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

16/32 London A women carries her placard ahead of the Women's March in London, England Getty Images

17/32 Manila Women protesters shout slogans while displaying placards during a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President Donald Trump, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines AP

18/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

19/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

20/32 Berlin Protesters attend a 'Berlin Women's March on Washington' demonstration in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany AP

21/32 Melbourne Protesters take part in the Melbourne rally to protest against the Trump Inauguration in Melbourne, Australia Getty Images

22/32 Macau Protesters take part in the Women's March rally in Macau Getty Images

23/32 Melbourne Womens march on Melbourne protestors marching during a rally where rights groups marched in solidarity with Americans to speak out against misogyny, bigotry and hatred Rex

24/32 Macau Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau Getty Images

25/32 Macau Protesters hold placards as they take part at the Women's March rally in Macau, Macau. The Women's March originated in Washington DC but soon spread to be a global march calling on all concerned citizens to stand up for equality, diversity and inclusion and for women's rights to be recognised around the world as human rights Getty Images

26/32 Manila A mother carries her son as they join a rally in solidarity against the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States in suburban Quezon city northeast of Manila, Philippines AP

27/32 Sydney An infant is held up at a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

28/32 Sydney A woman attends a demonstration against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

29/32 Sydney A woman expresses her Anti-Trump views in Sydney, Australia Getty Images

30/32 Sydeney Protesters demonstrate against new U.S. President Donald Trump in Sydney, Australia. The marches in Australia were organised to show solidarity with those marching on Washington DC and around the world in defense of women's rights and human rights Getty

31/32 London Protesters march from The US Embassy in Grosvenor Square towards Trafalgar Square during the Women's March in London, England Getty

32/32 London Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

"I don't watch CNN, so I don't get to see you as much," he said. "I don't like watching fake news. But Fox has treated me very nice, wherever Fox is, thank you."

Echoing his campaign speeches, Mr Trump focused on how he would improve the “inner city”, announcing he intended to improve schools and make communities safer “with law enforcement”.

Despite picking up eight per cent of the black vote to Hillary Clinton’s 89 per cent, the President claimed he was extremely popular with African Americans.

“If you remember, I wasn't going to do well with the African-American community, and after they heard me speaking and talking about the inner city and lots of other things, we ended up getting, I won't go into details, but we ended up getting substantially more than other candidates who had run in the past years,” he said.

Read Mr Trump's speech in full:

Well the election, it came out really well. Next time we'll triple the number or quadruple it. We want to get it over Si, right. At least 51.

Well, this is black history month, so this is our little breakfast, our little get-together. And just a few notes. During this month, we honour the tremendous history of the African-Americans throughout our country. Throughout the world, if you really think about it, right. And their story is one of unimaginable sacrifice, hard work, and faith in America. I've gotten a real glimpse during the campaign; I'd go around with Ben to a lot of places that I wasn't so familiar with. They're incredible people. And I want to thank Ben Carson, who's going to be heading up HUD, and it's a big job, and it's a job that's not only housing, it's mind and spirit, right? And you understand that. Nobody's going to be better than Ben.

Last month we celebrated the life of Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. whose incredible example is unique in American history. You read all about Dr. Martin Luther King a week ago when somebody said I took the statue out of my office. And it turned out that that was fake news. The statue is cherished. It's one of the favourite things — and we have some good ones. We have Lincoln, and we have Jefferson, and we have Dr. Martin Luther King. And we have other. But they said the statue, the bust, of Dr. Martin Luther King was taken out of the office. And it was never even touched. So I think it was a disgrace, but that's the way the press is. It's very unfortunate.

I am very proud now that we have a museum, National Mall, where people can learn about Reverend King, so many other things, Frederick Doug — Douglass is an example of somebody who's done an amazing job that is being recognized more and more, I notice. Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks, and millions more black Americans who made Americans what it is today. Big impact. I'm proud to honour this heritage and will be honouring it more and more.

Folks at the table, in almost all cases, have been great friends and supporters. And Darrell, I met Darrel when he was defending me on television. And the people that were on the other side of the argument didn't have a chance, right. And Paris has done an amazing job in a very hostile CNN community; he's all by himself. Seven people and Paris. I'll take Paris over the seven. But I don't watch CNN, so I don't get to see you as much. I don't like watching fake news. But Fox has treated me very nice, wherever Fox is, thank you. We're going to need better schools, and we need 'em soon. We need more jobs, we need better wages, a lot better wages. We're going to work very hard on the inner city. Ben's going to be doing that, big league, that's one of his big things that we're going to be looking at. We need safer communities and we're going to do that with law enforcement. We're going to make it safe. We're going to make it much better than it is right now. Right now it's terrible.

I saw you talking about it the other night, Paris, on something else that was really — you did a fantastic job the other night on a very unrelated show. I'm ready to do my part, and I will say this, we're going to work together. This is a great group, this is a group that's been so special to me, you really helped me a lot. If you remember, I wasn't going to do well with the African-American community, and after they heard me speaking and talking about the inner city and lots of other things, we ended up getting, I won't go into details, but we ended up getting substantially more than other candidates who had run in the past years. And now we're going to take that to new levels. I want to thank my television star over here — Omarosa's actually a very nice person. Nobody knows that. I don't want to destroy her reputation. She is a very good person and she's been helpful right from the beginning with the campaign and I appreciate it, I really do. Very special. So I want to thank everybody for being here.