Tamron Hall Quits NBC and ‘Today’ Show With Megyn Kelly Coming
Tamron Hall Quits NBC and ‘Today’ Show With Megyn Kelly Coming
About six months ago, Billy Bush and Tamron Hall were introduced by NBC as the new team for the 9 a.m. hour of “Today.” Now neither works at the network. NBC said on Wednesday that Ms. Hall left both her “Today” post and her MSNBC show. In a statement, the network said it was her decision. Her last day was Tuesday and her contract expires this month. (Mr. Bush left in October after the “Access Hollywood” imbroglio involving the 2005 video of Donald J. Trump making vulgar comments about women.) “Tamron is an exceptional journalist, we valued and enjoyed her work at ‘Today’ and MSNBC and hoped that she would decide to stay,” NBC said in its statement. “We are disappointed that she has chosen to leave, but we wish her all the best.” The news comes less than a week after it was revealed that NBC was planning to do away with the current setup of the 9 a.m. hour — which was hosted by Ms. Hall and Al Roker — to make room for Megyn Kelly’s forthcoming morning show. That show is expected to debut in the fall, and Mr. Roker is expected to continue hosting the 9 a.m. hour until then. Ms. Hall, in an NBC statement, said, “The last 10 years have been beyond anything I could have imagined, and I’m grateful. I’m also very excited about the next chapter. To all my great colleagues, I will miss you and I will be rooting for you.” A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2017, on Page B4 of the with the headline: Hall Quits ‘Today’ and NBC With Kelly Waiting Offstage.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

About six months ago, Billy Bush and Tamron Hall were introduced by NBC as the new team for the 9 a.m. hour of “Today.”

Now neither works at the network.

NBC said on Wednesday that Ms. Hall left both her “Today” post and her MSNBC show. In a statement, the network said it was her decision. Her last day was Tuesday and her contract expires this month. (Mr. Bush left in October after the “Access Hollywood” imbroglio involving the 2005 video of Donald J. Trump making vulgar comments about women.)

“Tamron is an exceptional journalist, we valued and enjoyed her work at ‘Today’ and MSNBC and hoped that she would decide to stay,” NBC said in its statement. “We are disappointed that she has chosen to leave, but we wish her all the best.”

The news comes less than a week after it was revealed that NBC was planning to do away with the current setup of the 9 a.m. hour — which was hosted by Ms. Hall and Al Roker — to make room for Megyn Kelly’s forthcoming morning show. That show is expected to debut in the fall, and Mr. Roker is expected to continue hosting the 9 a.m. hour until then.

Ms. Hall, in an NBC statement, said, “The last 10 years have been beyond anything I could have imagined, and I’m grateful. I’m also very excited about the next chapter. To all my great colleagues, I will miss you and I will be rooting for you.”