Despite Getting Hit By A Six From Suresh Raina, This 6-Year-Old Boy Returned To Watch The Match
6-Year-Old Boy Gets Hit By Raina Six But Returns To Watch The Match - What A Fan!
Despite Getting Hit By A Six From Suresh Raina, This 6-Year-Old Boy Returned To Watch The Match - What A Fan! A six-year-old boy was injured when a him, but returned to watch the rest of the deciding T20I match between India and England in Bengaluru after treatment. "Satish was injured after one of Raina's sixes landed on his left thigh. He was rushed to the Karnataka State Cricket Association's medical centre at the stadium for treatment," Dr Mathew Chandy told PTI. "He complained of minor pain. We gave him the first aid and after 10 minutes, he requested to be relieved to watch the rest of the match. We had to give in his demand," the doctor said. He said it could have been fatal had the ball hit him on the head or neck "because a six-year-old is not that strong to sustain such an injury". In April 2012, a 10-year-old girl was hit in the face during an IPL match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Pune Warriors. ALSO READ:

A six-year-old boy was injured when a six off Suresh Raina's bat hit him, but returned to watch the rest of the deciding T20I match between India and England in Bengaluru after treatment.

BCCL

"Satish was injured after one of Raina's sixes landed on his left thigh. He was rushed to the Karnataka State Cricket Association's medical centre at the stadium for treatment," Dr Mathew Chandy told PTI.

BCCL

"He complained of minor pain. We gave him the first aid and after 10 minutes, he requested to be relieved to watch the rest of the match. We had to give in his demand," the doctor said.

PTI

He said it could have been fatal had the ball hit him on the head or neck "because a six-year-old is not that strong to sustain such an injury".

In April 2012, a 10-year-old girl was hit in the face during an IPL match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Pune Warriors.

ALSO READ: Fireworks From Raina, Dhoni And Record 6 Wickets By Chahal Give Kohli His First T20I Series Win

With inputs from PTI.