Sara Bareilles Calls Congress in Video: 'Make Your Voice Known'
Sara Bareilles Calls Congress in Video: 'Make Your Voice Known'
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics Sara Bareilles Calls Congress in Video: 'Make Your Voice Known'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In response to the controversial events following President Donald Trump’s inauguration -- such as the Women’s March, the immigration ban, and the removal of Attorney General Sally Yates -- musicians have taken to social media to express their points of view. Sara Bareilles has taken this one step further, tweeting a video of herself calling Congress to state she opposes Betsy DeVos and Jeff Sessions, also discussing the issues important to her.  The four-and-a-half-minute clip shows Bareilles dialing Congress, telling viewers how sometimes she too gets nervous discussing politics. “I don’t know if many of you feel the way I feel -- sort of intimidated to engage politically in any way,” Bareilles states in her video. “I think sometimes I feel like I’m not educated enough to talk about it, but that’s what I’m working on trying to change for myself.” She continues, “It’s okay to have conversations and it’s certainly ok to disagree. In fact, it’s what our country was founded on."  Artists have largely vocalized their contempt for Trump’s treatment of women and the immigration ban, protesting by making donations to Planned Parenthood and ACLU, engaging fans on the subject. Now, Bareilles is offering encouragement to others to directly impact a political change. “I did it, you can do it! Call your Congress people, make your voice known, make your vote heard,” said Bareilles. Watch Bareilles’ entire call -- and how you can call -- in the video below. Scared to call Congress? Me too! Let’s do it together. Watch me call for the first time here: https://t.co/HZhqAxEjMf  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In response to the controversial events following President Donald Trump’s inauguration -- such as the Women’s March, the immigration ban, and the removal of Attorney General Sally Yates -- musicians have taken to social media to express their points of view.

Sara Bareilles has taken this one step further, tweeting a video of herself calling Congress to state she opposes Betsy DeVos and Jeff Sessions, also discussing the issues important to her.

The four-and-a-half-minute clip shows Bareilles dialing Congress, telling viewers how sometimes she too gets nervous discussing politics.

“I don’t know if many of you feel the way I feel -- sort of intimidated to engage politically in any way,” Bareilles states in her video. “I think sometimes I feel like I’m not educated enough to talk about it, but that’s what I’m working on trying to change for myself.”

She continues, “It’s okay to have conversations and it’s certainly ok to disagree. In fact, it’s what our country was founded on."

Artists have largely vocalized their contempt for Trump’s treatment of women and the immigration ban, protesting by making donations to Planned Parenthood and ACLU, engaging fans on the subject. Now, Bareilles is offering encouragement to others to directly impact a political change.

“I did it, you can do it! Call your Congress people, make your voice known, make your vote heard,” said Bareilles.

Watch Bareilles’ entire call -- and how you can call -- in the video below.