The child refugees beaten by police in eastern Europe
Pictured: The child refugees beaten by police


Hundreds of child refugees are being beaten by police, mauled by dogs and stripped of their clothes before being illegally pushed back into Serbia, Save The Children has claimed.

The charity says many of the 1,600 refugees kicked out of Croatia and Hungary are now living in overcrowded camps or squalid, abandoned warehouses in the Serbian capital Belgrade, where temperatures can drop to minus ten.

Suffering from frostbite and infested with body lice, refugees as young as eight are clinging to life in the unforgiving Serbian winter, having already crossed the Balkans in sub-zero conditions.

'The police beat us, took our clothes and boots and then pushed us back,' said 12-year-old Afghan refugee Aalem, one of 1,000 sleeping rough in Belgrade after several failed attempts to sneak into Croatia.

Scroll down for video

Stranded: Hundreds of child refugees trying to reach EU nations are being beaten, stripped of their clothes and 'illegally' pushed back into Serbia, a harrowing Save The Children report has claimed

Destitute: Having spoken to more than a thousand refugees at aid centres in Serbia, Save The Children claims around 1,600 refugees and migrants have been kicked out of neighbouring Hungary and Croatia

Desperate: Around 1,000 of the 7,000 migrants in Serbia are sleeping rough on the streets of Belgrade. Having been refused access to overcrowded refugee centres, some of them have resorted to living in old, abandoned warehouses, above

Squalid: Often without a working toilet, running water or even a bed to sleep on, the refugees dwelling in Serbian warehouses light small fires to survive the country's sub-zero temperatures

About 46 per cent of refugee and migrant arrivals in Serbia are children and 20 per cent of these children are unaccompanied and travelling alone, some as young as eight

Aamen - who arrived in Serbia after travelling through Iran, Turkey and Bulgaria for seven months - had already crossed into Croatia when policemen beat him and sent him back.

Speaking to Save The Children at an aid centre in Belgrade, he said: 'We tried five times to cross the Croatia border and five times the Hungary border.

'We had problems with the police or the bad weather every time. The first time I crossed the border [into Croatia], I got around 5km in when police caught us.

'And when I went to the Hungarian border and managed to cross, the police were waiting with dogs. They beat us, took our clothes and boots, then pushed us back.'

Most of the 7,000 migrants in Serbia have found shelter in one of 17 official refugee centres but some, like Aamen, live in squalid, disused buildings where they huddle around a small fire for protection from the cold.

'We came to this place because it is much better than the barracks where we were staying,' he said of the drafty warehouse he and 20 other migrants call home. 'We can't go to the camp because there is not enough space.'

'We are able to relax here but it is very cold. I'm freezing cold. I got ill here and had a really bad cold for a long time.

'There is a fire in the other room. When it gets really, I go there to get warm. There is no toilet.'

Passed along: Aamen, a 12-year-old refugee from Afghanistan, is one of the many sleeping rough inside dirty, disused buildings in Serbia like this one because the nearby official United Nations centre was full

Forgotten: 'We are able to relax here but it is very cold,' said Aamen, who tried to sneak into Hungary and Croatia ten times before giving up. 'I'm freezing cold. I got ill here and had a really bad cold for a long time.' Pictured: One of the abandoned warehouses in Belgrade housing migrants

Hell frozen over: Refugees as young as eight - having already crossed the Balkan route in sub-zero conditions - are now clinging to life in Serbia, where temperatures can drop to minus ten degrees

Wounded: Having trudged through the icy conditions to reach Serbia, before being refused access to dream destinations such as Germany and the UK, some of the migrants suffer from frostbite while others are infested by lice

Injured and exhausted: Others arrive defeated at aid centres and the filthy warehouses they now call home swathed in bandages, having been attacked by police dogs on the Serbian border, Save The Children told MailOnline

Liaqat Khan, a 17-year-old from Bajaur in Pakistan who now inhabits one of Belgrade's largest decrepit warehouses, also failed to get access to an official centre.

From his current squat, he told of how 'sleeping is big problem, shower is big problem, water is big problem, eating is big problem'.

Having tried to cross the Serbian border no less than 20 times, he claims to have been brutally sent back by Croatian and Hungarian police who took his phone and money.

I met a man who was on crutches, hobbling around on ice and snow outside. He told me had been mauled by a dog at the border. Another man had a wound on his hand from a dog bite Gemma Parkin, Save The Children

Unable to find official shelter, he returned to the unsafe warehouse in Belgrade.

'All the people have chest problems,' he said, as others kept warm by the fires fuelled by bits of railway sleepers, emitting toxic fumes into the makeshift dormitory.

Of the 30 or so migrants illegally pushed back into Serbia, some arrive at help centres swathed in bandages having been attacked by police dogs, Save The Children spokesperson Gemma Parkin told MailOnline.

She said: 'I met a man who was on crutches, hobbling around on ice and snow outside. He told me had been mauled by a dog at the border. Another man had a wound on his hand from a dog bite.

'A crowd of teenagers quickly gathered around me, telling me it happens "all the time". Many of them said they've been bitten crossing the woods near the borders of Bulgaria and Hungary.'

Other children have complained of problems with the 'mafia' in Bulgaria, who want to profit from their misfortune - either by extorting money for safe passage to the West or by putting them to work.

Last resort: Liaqat Khan, a 17-year-old from Bajaur in Pakistan, tried to leave Serbia 20 times before he abandoned hope and holed up in a warehouse in the capital. Pictured: Migrants lining up to receive food aid in Belgrade

Having resorted to life inside a stinking shell of a building after he was refused access to an official centre, Liaqat said: 'Sleeping is big problem, shower is big problem, water is big problem, eating is big problem'

Under threat: Children have complained of problems with the 'mafia' in Bulgaria, who wanted to profit from their misfortune - either by extorting money for safe passage to the West or by putting them to work

Starving: Save The Children said migrants living in warehouses get one hot meal a day from a charity which is 'ignoring the government recommendation to discontinue providing meals and basic supplies outside of asylum centres'

Bare minimum: Save The Children spokesperson Gemma Parkin said the only other food migrants eat are potatoes, which they buy with any spare change they may have and cook it over burning rubbish

Hazardous: 'All the people have chest problems,' said Liaqat from his makeshift home, where others keep warm by fires fuelled by bits of railway sleepers, emitting toxic fumes into the room

Meanwhile charities and local health services are constantly having to respond to cases of frostbite and breathing illnesses caused by freezing people lighting fires of rubbish to keep warm in windowless, wet warehouses.

Despite a growing number of young men sheltering near the snowy railway tracks in Belgrade, Serbia's Commissariat for Refugees Ivan Miskovic said there is no chance of a 'Calais Jungle' style camp springing up.

'We would not allow anything like that,' he said, referring to the notorious refugee camp outside the northern French port city of Calais which was torn down late last year.

Even when space becomes available in asylum centres, migrants and refugees are anxious to move, fearing that they will be detained in centres indefinitely, or deported illegally.

Save the Children outreach teams have met unaccompanied children, one as young as eight years old, too frightened to get on the bus to the new reception centres.

The charity, which is supporting the government in refurbishing safe spaces for unaccompanied children, estimates that around 100 refugees and migrants arrive in Serbia every day.

They include an Iraqi family who crossed the snowy mountains on the Bulgarian border carrying their 8-year-old daughter.

History repeating: Despite a growing number of young men sheltering near the snowy railway tracks and warehouses in Belgrade, Serbia's Commissariat for Refugees Ivan Miskovic said the country will not allow a 'Calais Jungle' style camp

Tricked: Many refugees and migrants resort to sleeping rough when asylum centres are full but, according to Save The Children, some fear going to the camps for fear of being detained indefinitely or deported illegally

Health risk: Charities and local health services are constantly having to respond to cases of frostbite and breathing illnesses caused by freezing people lighting fires of rubbish, above, to keep warm

The mother needed urgent medical attention on arrival. They fled their home country when their home was bombed and the children could no longer attend school because of ISIS.

Human Rights Watch has slammed reports of police violence against migrants, particularly in Croatia, saying the 'shocking and abusive treatment of asylum seekers at its border is unworthy of an EU state'.

Around 46 per cent of refugees and migrants arriving in Serbia are children, some as young as eight, and 20 per cent of them are travelling alone.

Since Europe shut down its borders in March last year, thousands have found themselves stuck in limbo in the Balkan country - and its authorities are under pressure to do something about it.