Chance the Rapper, Little Big Town, Sturgill Simpson Join Lineup of Grammy Performers
Chance the Rapper, Little Big Town, Sturgill Simpson Join Lineup of Grammy Performers
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Chance the Rapper, Little Big Town, Sturgill Simpson Join Lineup of Grammy Performers  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The Grammy stage just got even more star-studded. Chance the Rapper , Little Big Town and Sturgill Simpson were just announced as performers for the Feb. 12 Grammy awards Thursday morning (Feb. 2), joining an already packed lineup that includes Adele, Bruno Mars, The Weeknd and Carrie Underwood. In addition to the Chicago rapper and the country acts, soul singer William Bell will be teaming up with blues musician Gary Clark Jr. for a special performance. That won't be the only collaboration of the night, though, as The Weeknd and Daft Punk are set to perform together Â and Foo Fighters frontmanÂ Dave GrohlÂ as well as best new artist nominee Anderson .PaakÂ will join hip-hop legendsÂ A Tribe Called Quest.  Chance is nominated for seven Grammys, including best new artist, best rap album and best rap song -- which three of his nominations comes from (he's up forÂ his song "No Problem" as well as his features onÂ Kanye West's "Ultralight Beam" and "Famous"). Simpson's Â is nominated for album of the year andÂ best country album. The Grammys will air Sunday, Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on CBSÂ and will be hosted by James Corden.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Chance the Rapper performs onstage during the 92.3 Real Show at The Forum on Nov. 5, 2016 in Inglewood, Calif.

The Grammy stage just got even more star-studded.

Chance the Rapper, Little Big Town and Sturgill Simpson were just announced as performers for the Feb. 12 Grammy awards Thursday morning (Feb. 2), joining an already packed lineup that includes Adele, Bruno Mars, The Weeknd and Carrie Underwood.

In addition to the Chicago rapper and the country acts, soul singer William Bell will be teaming up with blues musician Gary Clark Jr. for a special performance. That won't be the only collaboration of the night, though, as The Weeknd and Daft Punk are set to perform togetherÂ and Foo Fighters frontmanÂ Dave GrohlÂ as well as best new artist nominee Anderson .PaakÂ will join hip-hop legendsÂ A Tribe Called Quest.

Chance is nominated for seven Grammys, including best new artist, best rap album and best rap song -- which three of his nominations comes from (he's up forÂ his song "No Problem" as well as his features onÂ Kanye West's "Ultralight Beam" and "Famous"). Simpson's A Sailor's Guide to EarthÂ is nominated for album of the year andÂ best country album.

The Grammys will air Sunday, Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on CBSÂ and will be hosted by James Corden.