This Eight-Year-Old American Girl Was Killed In The First US Military Strike In Yemen Under President Donald Trump
This Eight-Year-Old American Girl Was Killed In The First US Strike In Yemen Under Prez Trump
This Eight-Year-Old American Girl Was Killed In The First US Military Strike In Yemen Under President Donald Trump On Sunday the US carried out its first military raid in Yemen which was reportedly authorised by President Donald Trump himself. According to Associated Press, at least a dozen civilians have been killed in the strike, which was said to be targeted at some high-ranking Al-Qaida operatives in Yemen. However, reports from ground claimed that at least 30 people including over a dozen women and children were killed. Even though the US initially claimed that all those killed in the strike were terrorists, they later admitted that some civilians could have been killed in the attack. Now, it has emerged that, one of the civilian fatalities is Nawar al-Awlaki, an 8-year-old American citizen. Confirming her death, Nawar's family said she was shot by US soldiers. “She was hit with a bullet in her neck and suffered for two hours. Why kill children? This is the new administration. It’s very sad, a big crime,” her grandfather Nasser al-Awlaki told Reuters. Her mother, who was also present at the spot during the raid survived with minor injuries. Nawar is the daughter of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American radical Islamic cleric who was killed in Yemen in 2011 in a CIA-led U.S. drone strike. Two weeks after the killing of Awlaki, a separate CIA drone strike in Yemen killed his 16-year-old American-born son, Abdulrahman, along with the boy’s 17-year-old cousin and several other civilians. He was considered the second most high-profile leader killed by US since Osama Bin Laden. Col John Thomas, a spokesman for the central command, said in the statement that the US military forces were unaware of the presence of the girl in the compound before launching the operation. He added that during the gun battle, al Qaeda fighters took up firing positions on the roof of a nearby building and that the US troops came under fire, calling in an airstrike against the building which likely led to the civilian casualties.

On Sunday the US carried out its first military raid in Yemen which was reportedly authorised by President Donald Trump himself.

According to Associated Press, at least a dozen civilians have been killed in the strike, which was said to be targeted at some high-ranking Al-Qaida operatives in Yemen.

EPA

However, reports from ground claimed that at least 30 people including over a dozen women and children were killed. Even though the US initially claimed that all those killed in the strike were terrorists, they later admitted that some civilians could have been killed in the attack.

Now, it has emerged that, one of the civilian fatalities is Nawar al-Awlaki, an 8-year-old American citizen.

Twitter

Confirming her death, Nawar's family said she was shot by US soldiers. “She was hit with a bullet in her neck and suffered for two hours. Why kill children? This is the new administration. It’s very sad, a big crime,” her grandfather Nasser al-Awlaki told Reuters.

Her mother, who was also present at the spot during the raid survived with minor injuries. Nawar is the daughter of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American radical Islamic cleric who was killed in Yemen in 2011 in a CIA-led U.S. drone strike.

SITE

Two weeks after the killing of Awlaki, a separate CIA drone strike in Yemen killed his 16-year-old American-born son, Abdulrahman, along with the boy’s 17-year-old cousin and several other civilians.

He was considered the second most high-profile leader killed by US since Osama Bin Laden.

Col John Thomas, a spokesman for the central command, said in the statement that the US military forces were unaware of the presence of the girl in the compound before launching the operation.

He added that during the gun battle, al Qaeda fighters took up firing positions on the roof of a nearby building and that the US troops came under fire, calling in an airstrike against the building which likely led to the civilian casualties.

Twitter

A US Navy SEAL, identified as Chief Special Warfare Operator William "Ryan" Owens, was also killed during the raid, making him the first known U.S. combat casualty since President Trump took office less than two weeks ago.