Punjab Has Its Own 'Taj Mahal' Called 'Pul Moran' And It's A Memorial Of Maharaja Ranjit Singh's Love For Moran, A Dancer
Punjab Has Its Own 'Taj Mahal' And It's A Memorial Of Maharaja Ranjit Singh's Love For A Dancer
Punjab Has Its Own 'Taj Mahal' Called 'Pul Moran', A Memorial Of Maharaja Ranjit Singh's Love For Moran, A Dancer When it comes to the expression of love, nothing beats Taj Mahal. However, India has a plenty of other memorials that have kept stories of the lovers - royals as well as commoners - alive over the ages. One such memorial is Pul Moran aka Pul Kanjari, a small bridge located 35-Km away from Amritsar on the canal bisecting Amritsar-Lahore road was made by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for his favourite dancer Moran, a Muslim dancer from a nearby village of Makhanpura. According to legends, despite being a Maharaja, Ranjit Singh had accepted the punishment of public flogging given by Akal Takht, after he decided to marry a lower caste Muslim dancer. Some researchers believe that Maharaja was so fond of Moron that he had clandestinely married her. Off late, the site was declared as world heritage site by UNESCO. The story behind construction of the Pul Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s empire in 1830s was at its zenith. From Yamuna in South-East, Kashmir Valley in North, the empire was expanded till Afghanistan borders with parts of present-day Balochistan in it with capital on Lahore. Maharaja used to travel frequently between Amritsar and Lahore and therefore he had constructed a Persian style rest house known as Baradari. Maharaja frequently would stay at Baradari and call for his favourite dancer Moran, a young dancer living in a nearby village of Makhanpura. Once when Maharaja ordered Moran’s arrival at Baradari and sent soldiers to bring her. At that time, the canal had no bridge over it and Moran was travelling on the horseback. One day, Moran was summoned by Maharaja and while she was crossing the canal on horseback, one of her slippers which were made of silver and was a gifted to her by Maharaja fell in canal and got lost.

When it comes to the expression of love, nothing beats Taj Mahal. However, India has a plenty of other memorials that have kept stories of the lovers - royals as well as commoners - alive over the ages.

amritsaronline.in

One such memorial is Pul Moran aka Pul Kanjari, a small bridge located 35-Km away from Amritsar on the canal bisecting Amritsar-Lahore road was made by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for his favourite dancer Moran, a Muslim dancer from a nearby village of Makhanpura.

According to legends, despite being a Maharaja, Ranjit Singh had accepted the punishment of public flogging given by Akal Takht, after he decided to marry a lower caste Muslim dancer.

amritsaronline.in

Some researchers believe that Maharaja was so fond of Moron that he had clandestinely married her. Off late, the site was declared as world heritage site by UNESCO.

The story behind construction of the Pul

Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s empire in 1830s was at its zenith. From Yamuna in South-East, Kashmir Valley in North, the empire was expanded till Afghanistan borders with parts of present-day Balochistan in it with capital on Lahore.

amritsaronline.in

Maharaja used to travel frequently between Amritsar and Lahore and therefore he had constructed a Persian style rest house known as Baradari. Maharaja frequently would stay at Baradari and call for his favourite dancer Moran, a young dancer living in a nearby village of Makhanpura.

Once when Maharaja ordered Moran’s arrival at Baradari and sent soldiers to bring her. At that time, the canal had no bridge over it and Moran was travelling on the horseback. One day, Moran was summoned by Maharaja and while she was crossing the canal on horseback, one of her slippers which were made of silver and was a gifted to her by Maharaja fell in canal and got lost.

Baradari (amritsaronline.in)

She came before Maharaja in Baradari bare feet with the remaining slipper in her hand. Maharaja got so upset with it that he immediately ordered to built a bridge over the canal.

Actually, Moran had been facing inconvenience while coming to Baradari and had also refused to perform if the bridge wasn't constructed over the canal. But losing slipper made of silver made her very upset, which prompted Maharaja to immediately order for the construction of a bridge.

Sooner, the canal had a small bridge made of it. Apart from the bridge, the Maharaja also made one temple dedicated to Lord Shiva, One Mosque, one Gurudwara and one Sarovar to store water.

Shahjahan is related to this love story as well

Mughal emperor Shahjahan immortalised himself by constructing the Taj Mahal, the biggest memorial of love in the known world is also related to this unique between a royal and a commoner.

amritsaronline.in

The canal over which the bridge was made, was dug in the behest of Shahjahan in early seventeenth century. The purpose of the canal was to bring water of river Ravi from Amritsar to Lahore for irrigation of Shahjahan’s favourite Shalimar gardens.

Lahori brick used in construction of Taj Mahal were also used for the bridge

Lahori bricks famous for the construction of Lahore fort and Taj Mahal in Mughal era were used to construct the bridge which soon after it construction became famous.

The bridge opened a new trade route between Lahore and Amritsar.

When Maharaja faced Punishment for his love for Moran

Maharaja’s love for Moran was eternal, way beyond the mortal pleasures. Therefore, to sanctify her love and send a message to people of unity and brotherhood, Maharaja had decided to marry Moran, a Muslim in the first place and a Kanjar, a lower caste.

Amritsar

On hearing this, Akal Takht had summoned Maharaja and was awarded punishment of public flogging. The Maharaja gladly accepted the punishment. But later, the punishment was reduced to fine.

How Pul Kanjari became Pul Moran

The name Kanjari was derived from 'Kanjar' which has a derogatory connotation in Punjab as the word symbolises a lower caste. Over a period of time, repeated attempts were made by different individuals to change the name of the bridge to Pul Moran from Pul Kanjari.

Amritsaronline.in

Later, a researcher in Punjab found that Maharaja married her, not only out of love but also to set a social precedent for communal and social harmony. Moran too was seen as an able administrator who helped Maharaja in managing the administration.

At last in 2011, the state government finally changed the name of the bridge and village from Pul Kanjari to Pul Moran.

But, like many other things, Partition destroyed it

Like many other things that were once the symbol of love and harmony, the partition of the country in 1947 destroyed Pul Moran as well. The riots that engulfed the area resulted in the sabotage of many historical places and Pul Moran was one of them. Later in the war of 1965 and 1971, the area was occupied by Pakistan forces which were later freed by Indian forces. Pul Moran also has a war memorial.