J.K. Rowling has the perfect response to Trump trolls burning her books
J.K. Rowling has the perfect response to Trump trolls burning her books
LONDON — J.K. Rowling has had a very busy week on Twitter, even by her standards. It kicked off on Monday with a tweet about Mike Pence, then progressed to her shutting down Trump trolls again and again with a series of well-crafted, 140-character barbs. SEE ALSO: J.K. Rowling made a major correction to this 'Daily Mail' tweet The tweets have generated media coverage, thousands of readers, and — unsurprisingly — have attracted a whole host of new trolls that seem drawn to Rowling like angry moths to a flame. The latest trend involves people telling her that they're going to burn her books. Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter. pic.twitter.com/kVoi8VGEoK — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) January 31, 2017 Despite what must be a near-constant onslaught of angry tweets, Rowling's fans have helped her to stay upbeat. I'd just like to thank everyone sending me lovely messages, which greatly outnumber the bad ones 😘 I'm now off to produce more kindling... — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017 @LizzieMarvelly 😘thank you — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017 And as the "just burned all my books" tweets keep rolling in, Rowling keeps doing what she does best: calmly replying with well-worded shutdowns. Guess it's true what they say: you can lead a girl to books about the rise and fall of an autocrat, but you still can't make her think. pic.twitter.com/oB7Aq6Xz8M — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017 @jk_rowling I'll buy 2 copies of every book to make up for this and I'll donate the second copy to an interested reader. Takers? — Christeeeeenuh (@Christeeeeenuh) February 1, 2017 Actually, we're thinking of selling them in pairs in future; a 'read one, burn one' deal for those who like the magic, but not the morals. https://t.co/EPsXoDodr7 — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017 BONUS: J.K. Rowling weighs in hard on the Donald Trump/Meryl Streep feud

LONDON — J.K. Rowling has had a very busy week on Twitter, even by her standards.

It kicked off on Monday with a tweet about Mike Pence, then progressed to her shutting down Trump trolls again and again with a series of well-crafted, 140-character barbs.

The tweets have generated media coverage, thousands of readers, and — unsurprisingly — have attracted a whole host of new trolls that seem drawn to Rowling like angry moths to a flame.

The latest trend involves people telling her that they're going to burn her books.

Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter. pic.twitter.com/kVoi8VGEoK — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) January 31, 2017

Despite what must be a near-constant onslaught of angry tweets, Rowling's fans have helped her to stay upbeat.

I'd just like to thank everyone sending me lovely messages, which greatly outnumber the bad ones 😘 I'm now off to produce more kindling... — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017

And as the "just burned all my Harry Potter books" tweets keep rolling in, Rowling keeps doing what she does best: calmly replying with well-worded shutdowns.

Guess it's true what they say: you can lead a girl to books about the rise and fall of an autocrat, but you still can't make her think. pic.twitter.com/oB7Aq6Xz8M — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017

@jk_rowling I'll buy 2 copies of every book to make up for this and I'll donate the second copy to an interested reader. Takers? — Christeeeeenuh (@Christeeeeenuh) February 1, 2017

Actually, we're thinking of selling them in pairs in future; a 'read one, burn one' deal for those who like the magic, but not the morals. https://t.co/EPsXoDodr7 — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 1, 2017