Tesla Has Little To Show In California's Autonomous Car Data Tally
Tesla Has Little To Show In California's Autonomous Car Data Tally
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alan Ohnsman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A driver rides hands-free in a Tesla  Model S vehicle equipped with Autopilot hardware and software in New York. (Christopher Goodney/Bloomberg) Tesla is fixated on getting fully self-driving vehicle technology to owners of its electric cars as soon as possible, and rapidly updating the capabilities of the semi-automated Autopilot system it already offers. Yet public road test data filed with California’s Department of Motor Vehicles is limited and unimpressive in what it does report on the maverick company’s driverless system. The state posted autonomous vehicle “disengagement” reports for 2016 from 11 companies, including Tesla, Alphabet Inc.’s Waymo , Ford, Nissan, GM, BMW, Bosch and Delphi. The annual tallies detail how frequently a human driver takes over for the automated system. More than 20 auto, tech and supplier companies have permits to operate self-driving vehicles in California. Surprisingly, Tesla logged just 550 miles on public roads in its home state last year, mainly in October, and during which its system disengaged 182 times, according to its filing. By comparison, Waymo, formerly the Google Self-Driving Car project, logged 635,868 autonomous miles in California in 2016. It reported just 124 disengagements for the entire year. Adjusting those figures on a per-thousand mile rate, Tesla disengagements work out to 330.9 times for every 1,000 miles, compared with 0.2 times for Waymo. Tesla didn't comment on the DMV data. To be sure, the report reflects a small portion of automated drive data Tesla collects, as it doesn’t represent Autopilot miles it continually logs from customers’ vehicles. Tesla estimates that it has more than 300 million miles of real-world Autopilot driving data. Waymo, which doesn’t yet sell its system to consumers, racked up all of its miles solely from a dedicated test fleet operated by company technicians. Much of its testing is done near its Mountain View, Calif. headquarters. General Motors, Nissan and Delphi logged the most California miles after Waymo, reporting 9,776, 4,099 and 3,125 autonomous miles, respectively. GM, testing with its Cruise unit, averaged 18.5 disengagements/1,000 miles over a 12-month period; Nissan's rate was 6.8/1,000 and Delphi averaged 57/1,000. Much of Tesla’s advanced autonomous system tests aren’t done on public roads and the company's report said it's making use of test tracks and roads in other parts of the world, without elaborating. Like all other players in the self-driving tech space, Tesla is accumulating vast amounts of simulated driving data to improve its technology. In October CEO Elon Musk announced plans to equip Tesla vehicles with the sensors, vision system and other hardware needed to be fully self-driving, with plans to add enhanced capabilities beyond Autopilot over time. Last week, he said on Twitter that would begin happening within six months via over-the-air software updates. Separately, Tesla filed a lawsuit in Santa Clara County, Calif., last week against Sterling Anderson, the former head of its Autopilot team, claiming he inappropriately attempted to lure Tesla employees to work for a new self-driving tech company, Aurora Innovation, he started with Chris Urmson , the former head of Google’s Self-Driving Car program. In the suit, Tesla said, “Autopilot feature that are built into every Tesla vehicle, and continually updated through free over-the-air updates, are widely regarded as the most advanced, safest, and most reliable technology in the autonomous area.” For its part, Waymo said it had a “four-fold” improvement in California road tests last year by lowering its disengagement frequency to 0.2 times per 1,000 miles from 0.8 times in 2015. “We’ve been able to make dramatic improvements to our technology because we use each of these disengages to teach and refine our car,” Dmitri Dolgov, Waymo’s head of self-driving technology, said in a blog post . “For each event we can create hundreds — and sometimes thousands — of related scenarios in simulation, varying the parameters such as the position and speed of other road users in the area. This allows us to do a more thorough job identifying the root cause of any disengage and resolving any problems in a robust way." Waymo is adding Chrysler Pacific minivans equipped with its hardware and software as part of an alliance with automaker FCA Corp. In December, Honda said it's also considering working with Waymo on self-driving vehicle systems.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Tesla is fixated on getting fully self-driving vehicle technology to owners of its electric cars as soon as possible, and rapidly updating the capabilities of the semi-automated Autopilot system it already offers. Yet public road test data filed with California’s Department of Motor Vehicles is limited and unimpressive in what it does report on the maverick company’s driverless system.

The state posted autonomous vehicle “disengagement” reports for 2016 from 11 companies, including Tesla, Alphabet Inc.’s Waymo, Ford, Nissan, GM, BMW, Bosch and Delphi. The annual tallies detail how frequently a human driver takes over for the automated system. More than 20 auto, tech and supplier companies have permits to operate self-driving vehicles in California.

Surprisingly, Tesla logged just 550 miles on public roads in its home state last year, mainly in October, and during which its system disengaged 182 times, according to its filing. By comparison, Waymo, formerly the Google Self-Driving Car project, logged 635,868 autonomous miles in California in 2016. It reported just 124 disengagements for the entire year.

Adjusting those figures on a per-thousand mile rate, Tesla disengagements work out to 330.9 times for every 1,000 miles, compared with 0.2 times for Waymo. Tesla didn't comment on the DMV data.

To be sure, the report reflects a small portion of automated drive data Tesla collects, as it doesn’t represent Autopilot miles it continually logs from customers’ vehicles. Tesla estimates that it has more than 300 million miles of real-world Autopilot driving data. Waymo, which doesn’t yet sell its system to consumers, racked up all of its miles solely from a dedicated test fleet operated by company technicians. Much of its testing is done near its Mountain View, Calif. headquarters.

General Motors, Nissan and Delphi logged the most California miles after Waymo, reporting 9,776, 4,099 and 3,125 autonomous miles, respectively. GM, testing with its Cruise unit, averaged 18.5 disengagements/1,000 miles over a 12-month period; Nissan's rate was 6.8/1,000 and Delphi averaged 57/1,000.

Much of Tesla’s advanced autonomous system tests aren’t done on public roads and the company's report said it's making use of test tracks and roads in other parts of the world, without elaborating. Like all other players in the self-driving tech space, Tesla is accumulating vast amounts of simulated driving data to improve its technology.

In October CEO Elon Musk announced plans to equip Tesla vehicles with the sensors, vision system and other hardware needed to be fully self-driving, with plans to add enhanced capabilities beyond Autopilot over time. Last week, he said on Twitter that would begin happening within six months via over-the-air software updates.

Separately, Tesla filed a lawsuit in Santa Clara County, Calif., last week against Sterling Anderson, the former head of its Autopilot team, claiming he inappropriately attempted to lure Tesla employees to work for a new self-driving tech company, Aurora Innovation, he started with Chris Urmson, the former head of Google’s Self-Driving Car program.

In the suit, Tesla said, “Autopilot feature that are built into every Tesla vehicle, and continually updated through free over-the-air updates, are widely regarded as the most advanced, safest, and most reliable technology in the autonomous area.”

For its part, Waymo said it had a “four-fold” improvement in California road tests last year by lowering its disengagement frequency to 0.2 times per 1,000 miles from 0.8 times in 2015.

“We’ve been able to make dramatic improvements to our technology because we use each of these disengages to teach and refine our car,” Dmitri Dolgov, Waymo’s head of self-driving technology, said in a blog post. “For each event we can create hundreds — and sometimes thousands — of related scenarios in simulation, varying the parameters such as the position and speed of other road users in the area. This allows us to do a more thorough job identifying the root cause of any disengage and resolving any problems in a robust way."

Waymo is adding Chrysler Pacific minivans equipped with its hardware and software as part of an alliance with automaker FCA Corp. In December, Honda said it's also considering working with Waymo on self-driving vehicle systems.

Alan Ohnsman covers the intersection of technology, autos and mobility. Follow him on Twitter and LinkedIn.