Melania Trump will move into the White House this summer, says senior aide
Melania Trump will move into the White House this summer, says senior aide
elania Trump will move into the White House this summer, a senior aide has said. The First Lady will settle in Washington with the couple’s 10 year old son Barron and has already assumed her duties, according to her senior adviser Stephanie Winston Wolkoff. Ms Wolkoff told ABC News, “Ms Trump will be moving to DC and settling into the White House at the end of the school year, splitting her time between New York and DC in the meantime.” The First Lady currently lives in New York, where she remained after her husband’s inauguration as the 45th President of the United States on January 20. In November last year, Donald Trump confirmed that his wife would stay in their Trump Tower penthouse with the couple’s 10-year-old son Barron and would join him in Washington, “right after he finishes school”. At the time, a source close to Mr Trump's transition team told the that "the campaign has been difficult for Barron" and the family hoped "to keep disruption to a minimum". Similar concerns were raised ahead of President Barack Obama's first term, over whether his wife Michelle would remain in Chicago for their daughters' education, but the family moved together. s Wolkoff added that Mrs Trump is “honoured to serve this country and is taking the role and responsibilities of First Lady very seriously.” The announcement follows rumours in the American media that the First Lady planned to stay in New York permanently and make the 90 minute door-to-door journey between the $100million Fifth Avenue apartment and the White House. In a New York Times article on January 25, the President said “they’ll come down on weekends”. The First Lady’s continued residency in Trump Tower presented a massive security challenge for the secret service and New York law enforcement officials. Estimates suggested that police protection could be costing the city up to $1million a day. All eyes are now on who Mrs Trump will appoint to her White House team. On Wednesday, it was announced that Lindsay Reynolds , who worked under George W Bush, will be her Chief of Staff. n a statement, Mrs Trump said: “It has been an honour to take on the responsibility of the position of First Lady, with its long history as an important representative of the President, our family, and the traditions of our nation around the world. “I am putting together a professional and highly-experienced team which will take time to do properly. I am excited to be organising and bringing together such a dynamic and forward thinking group of individuals who will work together to make our country better for everyone.” It was her first public move in the role, following criticism over her lack of visibility during her husband’s first days as President. Melania Trump goes into the role with the lowest favourability rating of any modern First Lady - just 37 per cent, according to a Gallup poll published in January. Michelle Obama, Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush were all rated above 55 per cent on entering the White House.

Melania Trump will move into the White House this summer, a senior aide has said.

The First Lady will settle in Washington with the couple’s 10 year old son Barron and has already assumed her duties, according to her senior adviser Stephanie Winston Wolkoff.

Ms Wolkoff told ABC News, “Ms Trump will be moving to DC and settling into the White House at the end of the school year, splitting her time between New York and DC in the meantime.”

The First Lady currently lives in New York, where she remained after her husband’s inauguration as the 45th President of the United States on January 20. In November last year, Donald Trump confirmed that his wife would stay in their Trump Tower penthouse with the couple’s 10-year-old son Barron and would join him in Washington, “right after he finishes school”.

At the time, a source close to Mr Trump's transition team told the New York Post that "the campaign has been difficult for Barron" and the family hoped "to keep disruption to a minimum". Similar concerns were raised ahead of President Barack Obama's first term, over whether his wife Michelle would remain in Chicago for their daughters' education, but the family moved together.