Kim Kardashian and Chrissy Teigen have officially launched a book club
Kim Kardashian and Chrissy Teigen have officially launched a book club
Pry your eyes off of Snapchat and re-runs of because Kim Kardashian and Chrissy Teigen have officially launched the book club of your dreams. Watch out, Oprah. SEE ALSO: Kim Kardashian praised for her response to Trump's Muslim ban In a series of tweets Tuesday, Kim declared the start of a reading revolution. It started with a request for book suggestions. "Any good books I should start reading?," Kim tweeted on Monday. "I love reading before I fall asleep and need a new book." A few days later, the social media queen co-conspired a book club with Teigen and celebrity hair stylist Jen Atkins, and opened the invitation to all. So guys..... @chrissyteigen & @jenatkinhair & I are starting a book club! — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) February 2, 2017 Kim revealed the club's first selection— , a 1992 spiritual book by Betty J. Eadie that details a near-death experience. "It's a story of a woman who died during surgery and came back to life," Kim tweeted. "She shares her journey of what heaven is like." After hearing you talk about it for 15 years I can't believe I've never read it. https://t.co/abNsKV2HHu — Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) February 2, 2017 The book club, which officially begins on Feb. 6, will eventually live on Kim's app according to her tweets . JOIN US https://t.co/5yy4Js5Xma — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) February 2, 2017 It's time to dust off your library cards, kids. Looks like Twitter is joining in on the fun. We'll host. https://t.co/AF5FG1Fe1f — Twitter (@Twitter) February 2, 2017 BONUS: You can now take selfies... with your feet?

Pry your eyes off of Snapchat and re-runs of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, because Kim Kardashian and Chrissy Teigen have officially launched the book club of your dreams.

Watch out, Oprah.

In a series of tweets Tuesday, Kim declared the start of a reading revolution. It started with a request for book suggestions.

"Any good books I should start reading?," Kim tweeted on Monday. "I love reading before I fall asleep and need a new book."

A few days later, the social media queen co-conspired a book club with Teigen and celebrity hair stylist Jen Atkins, and opened the invitation to all.

So guys..... @chrissyteigen & @jenatkinhair & I are starting a book club! — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) February 2, 2017

Kim revealed the club's first selection—Embraced By The Light, a 1992 spiritual book by Betty J. Eadie that details a near-death experience.

"It's a story of a woman who died during surgery and came back to life," Kim tweeted. "She shares her journey of what heaven is like."

After hearing you talk about it for 15 years I can't believe I've never read it. https://t.co/abNsKV2HHu — Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) February 2, 2017

The book club, which officially begins on Feb. 6, will eventually live on Kim's app according to her tweets.

It's time to dust off your library cards, kids.

UPDATE: Feb. 2, 2017, 2:23 p.m. EST Looks like Twitter is joining in on the fun.