Two Bleeding People Left To Die In One Week. Does India Need A 'Duty To Help' Law?
Two Bleeding People Left To Die In One Week. Does India Need A 'Duty To Help' Law?
Anwar Ali, 18, was on his bicycle when a bus hit him. He was bleeding profusely for 25 minutes before he was taken to the hospital, where he eventually died. His brother told PTI, “No one came to his help, they were making video and clicking pictures. If someone had cared, my brother could have been saved.” In an eerily similar incident, three days ago in Mysuru, Mahesh Kumar’s police car collided head-on with a bus. The 38-year-old police officer was stuck in his car bleeding, while people paused long enough to click a picture and then moved on with their apparently busy lives. The phrase, “time is of the essence” takes on a whole new meaning in metropolitans, which are ubiquitously known for their fast-paced lives. No one has time to pause on the streets for a humble nod of the head and say hello, let alone lend a helping hand to someone caught with a flat tyre. But if a fellow human being is on the verge of dying, are human beings also too busy to stop and call for assistance, at the very least? Why are people in India reluctant to help someone in conspicuously dire need of it? Upon observing the bulbous silence in compassion, in 2016 the Supreme Court approved the government's guidelines to protect Good Samaritans, who help road accident victims, from being unnecessarily harassed by the police or any other authority. The government saw that it was proving difficult to enforce these guidelines in the absence of any statutory backing, which led them to the doorsteps of the Supreme Court. However, even after that, people still do not make any effort to save others. This makes one wonder if India should have a legal code that makes it mandatory for people to help accident victims. There are some countries in the world that already have such legal arrangements. In Canada, not providing assistance to someone in need is a criminal offence In Quebec, it is a criminal offence not to provide assistance to someone in need. Its Charter of Rights states, “Every human being whose life is in peril has a right to assistance...Every person must come to the aid of anyone whose life is in peril, either personally or calling for aid, by giving him the necessary and immediate physical assistance, unless it involves danger to himself or a third person, or he has another valid reason.” In Denmark, people must help others who face danger

“Love thy neighbour as thy self”, preaches the Bible, like all other religions. Be it Christianity or Hinduism, all religions profess kindness and compassion towards fellow human beings. As a boy lay bleeding on the side of a road in Bengaluru, while passers-by stopped not to offer assistance, but instead to click selfies with the dying teenager, one can’t help but wonder whether humans can be dutiful, without the hand of God, or governance, looming over them.

BCCL

Anwar Ali, 18, was on his bicycle when a bus hit him. He was bleeding profusely for 25 minutes before he was taken to the hospital, where he eventually died. His brother told PTI, “No one came to his help, they were making video and clicking pictures. If someone had cared, my brother could have been saved.”

In an eerily similar incident, three days ago in Mysuru, Mahesh Kumar’s police car collided head-on with a bus. The 38-year-old police officer was stuck in his car bleeding, while people paused long enough to click a picture and then moved on with their apparently busy lives.

The phrase, “time is of the essence” takes on a whole new meaning in metropolitans, which are ubiquitously known for their fast-paced lives. No one has time to pause on the streets for a humble nod of the head and say hello, let alone lend a helping hand to someone caught with a flat tyre.

But if a fellow human being is on the verge of dying, are human beings also too busy to stop and call for assistance, at the very least?

BCCL

Why are people in India reluctant to help someone in conspicuously dire need of it?

Upon observing the bulbous silence in compassion, in 2016 the Supreme Court approved the government's guidelines to protect Good Samaritans, who help road accident victims, from being unnecessarily harassed by the police or any other authority. The government saw that it was proving difficult to enforce these guidelines in the absence of any statutory backing, which led them to the doorsteps of the Supreme Court.

However, even after that, people still do not make any effort to save others. This makes one wonder if India should have a legal code that makes it mandatory for people to help accident victims.

There are some countries in the world that already have such legal arrangements.

In Canada, not providing assistance to someone in need is a criminal offence

Reuters

In Quebec, it is a criminal offence not to provide assistance to someone in need. Its Charter of Rights states, “Every human being whose life is in peril has a right to assistance...Every person must come to the aid of anyone whose life is in peril, either personally or calling for aid, by giving him the necessary and immediate physical assistance, unless it involves danger to himself or a third person, or he has another valid reason.”

In Denmark, people must help others who face danger

Reuters

Danish penal code says it is necessary by law for people to give assistance as far and best as possible to those who appear lifeless or in danger.

France has arguably the best rescue law

Reuters

This European nation is perhaps best known for its rescue law, which includes calling for medical assistance. Perhaps one of the famous investigations regarding this rule is when nine photographers were investigated for failing to provide assistance to Princess Diana and Dodi al-Fayed. In France, it is considered a civil and criminal liability if a citizen fails to give assistance to a person in need.

Good Samaritan Law In India

Currently India's Good Samaritan Law exists exclusively for road accidents. Should this law be broadened to include all types of accidents, if it is the fear of harassment that is holding people back from helping those possibly on the brink of death? Will that be enough to push people towards doing the dutiful thing and helping? Past and recent observations don't paint a conclusive enough picture.

BCCL

The manner in which Anwar and Mahesh were left to die raises some important questions about the intrinsic nature of human beings and civil society. Are we, as Thomas Hobbes suggested, by nature irrational and self-interested? And if left to govern ourselves, society would ultimately end up in war?

Should the duty to assist be a law so that apathy becomes a crime, punishable by law that in turns creates an incentive for people to lend a helping hand?

Most human beings find it hard to connect with sufferings happening at a distance – it will be hard to sympathize with people dying in Syria till the catastrophe is witnessed first hand. Thinkers have argued that we don’t consider it our obligation to help unless we see someone dying first hand, but do if a person is dying right in front of us. A counter question is whether it is wrong to not offer help to someone dying.

Reuters

If social contracts were created for the purpose of peace and justice in society, where people live harmoniously with one-another, then perhaps introducing a "duty to help" law that punishes people for inaction should be introduced to keep the vices of human beings in check.

Even though letting someone bleed to death on the side of the road does not necessarily disrupt the “greater good”, it does, however, cause upset. It leads one to wonder about the values of its society and whether they will be helped in time of need.

At the risk of stealing a few words from poet Robert Frost, this approach creates “two roads diverged” where one leads to compassion and the other to indifference. And the latter can make all the difference.

It is possible to help others without causing any harm to yourself. If just one passer-by had called for an ambulance in the case of Anwar and Mukesh, then perhaps they could have been saved. Granted even with laws that deter crimes such as rape and murder, it is beyond common knowledge that people still partake in criminal activity.

Ultimately, the onus of being good to “thy self” and “thy neighbour” is on us, and governance can only make humans as good as they want to be.