The FCC Hints At The Future Of Net Neutrality Under Trump
The FCC Hints At The Future Of Net Neutrality Under Trump
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Nelson Granados       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Tom Wheeler (L) was replaced by Ajit Pai (R) as Chairman of the Federal Communication Commission on January 22, 2017 (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images, 2015) Since president Trump announced Ajit Pai as new Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), there has been plenty of speculation and headlines about the future of net neutrality. Many have predicted Pai will advocate eliminating the net neutrality rules that the FCC introduced in 2015 to ensure consumers and content providers have fair and equitable access to the internet. Others present a less extreme view, quoting Pai’s previous statements of support for a neutral internet. Here's one : "Americans love the free and open Internet. We relish our freedom to speak, to post, to rally, to learn, to listen, to watch, and to connect online." So who is right? What will be the future of net neutrality under Trump? Stark differences of opinion emerge often when there is little clarity about a complex issue, yet it is very important for businesses and consumers to understand how regulations for an open and fair internet will change. But already in the last week there have been wild swings on sentiment about Ajit Pai around net neutrality. An analysis by Netbase of about 19,000 posts on Ajit Pai with the hashtag #netneutrality shows that right after he was announced as FCC Chairman on Jan. 22, the net sentiment was positive. Then, two days later, it turned very negative for two days, and then it went back to positive again. Overall, Netbase reports a +6 net sentiment for Pai in the period January 24-31, on a scale from -100 (all posts negative) to +100 (all posts positive). Clearly, public opinion is torn, and many are probably still pretty confused. Source: Netbase. Posts on Ajit Pai in social media with the hashtag #netneutrality (Jan. 24-31, 2017). The Netbase social media analytics engine searches across 300 million online sources including social networks and blogs, and mines text to assess the overall sentiment about people, brands, or events, among others. A deep dive into the Netbase text-data shows many people had strong reactions to Pai after he was named FCC chair in Jan. 22. During the January 24-26 period, he was often referred to as an “enemy," “critic” or ”foe” of net neutrality, which led to a very negative overall sentiment. But other reports suggest that, while he is not friendly to big government, he is a very pragmatic "lawyer of lawyers" who advocates free markets and competition. What explains these already polarized views? Aside from politics, part of the problem is the complexity of the net neutrality rules. The 400-page Open Internet Order introduced in 2015 has two components. The first one is regarding net neutrality per se, which forbids internet and wireless providers from discriminating content over their networks. The second one is about regulating the internet as a public utility (under Title II of the Telecommunications Act). Pai has shown a clear inclination against regulating broadband internet service as a utility, arguing potential government overreach and over-regulation of internet and wireless providers like Comcast or AT&T. But that doesn’t mean he is an enemy of a neutral internet. Yet his statements against classifying the internet as a utility have been used to conclude he will abolish net neutrality rules. Although related, these are two different things. Moreover, Pai has stated he agrees with the spirit of an open and fair internet. On Tuesday when pressed on what will happen with net neutrality rules and enforcement, he stated : " This is refreshing, but still makes me wonder what portions of the 400-page ruling he will be inclined to cut, and whether net neutrality rules will be undermined in the process. It helped me to dissect the FCC's first major related action on Tuesday that removed a proposal introduced during the previous administration, which would have "unlocked" cable set-top boxes so third parties like Google and Amazon could offer their own. Pai was clearly against it as an FCC commissioner, arguing that it did not make sense to regulate a technology that was becoming outdated. He also provided numerous arguments on how the set-top box proposal would hurt many participants, including small video services who would suffer undue financial burden to comply, content owners who would endure increased piracy and intellectual property violations as the market opened to third-party providers, and consumers who would have to put up with more set-top boxes, when in reality they want less. Here is what it all boils down to: Pai is an advocate of pro-competitive regulations that address market failure or a systemic problem, as long as they don't inhibit market forces or create excessive or unfair burden to market participants. This means that, since the internet has certainly made many industries more competitive and innovative, Pai's FCC should see merit in ensuring the internet remains neutral, open, and fair for all content providers, and accessible to consumers. One last relevant data point is that, upon his acceptance speech last week, Pai stated that one of his main priorities as FCC Chairman will be to increase investment in broadband where the internet is still not available, in order to bridge the digital divide. So overall, the intentions seem to be good, as he seeks both pro-investment and pro-competition policies. But these two can be competing objectives, because giving internet providers carrots to invest and innovate can go against fair competition. The devil will be in the details, but I sincerely hope the new FCC will be able to strike that delicate balance. What do you think? Is there hope for net neutrality?    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Since president Trump announced Ajit Pai as new Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), there has been plenty of speculation and headlines about the future of net neutrality. Many have predicted Pai will advocate eliminating the net neutrality rules that the FCC introduced in 2015 to ensure consumers and content providers have fair and equitable access to the internet.

Others present a less extreme view, quoting Pai’s previous statements of support for a neutral internet. Here's one: "Americans love the free and open Internet. We relish our freedom to speak, to post, to rally, to learn, to listen, to watch, and to connect online."

So who is right? What will be the future of net neutrality under Trump?

Stark differences of opinion emerge often when there is little clarity about a complex issue, yet it is very important for businesses and consumers to understand how regulations for an open and fair internet will change. But already in the last week there have been wild swings on sentiment about Ajit Pai around net neutrality.

An analysis by Netbase of about 19,000 posts on Ajit Pai with the hashtag #netneutrality shows that right after he was announced as FCC Chairman on Jan. 22, the net sentiment was positive. Then, two days later, it turned very negative for two days, and then it went back to positive again. Overall, Netbase reports a +6 net sentiment for Pai in the period January 24-31, on a scale from -100 (all posts negative) to +100 (all posts positive). Clearly, public opinion is torn, and many are probably still pretty confused.

A deep dive into the Netbase text-data shows many people had strong reactions to Pai after he was named FCC chair in Jan. 22. During the January 24-26 period, he was often referred to as an “enemy," “critic” or ”foe” of net neutrality, which led to a very negative overall sentiment. But other reports suggest that, while he is not friendly to big government, he is a very pragmatic "lawyer of lawyers" who advocates free markets and competition.

What explains these already polarized views? Aside from politics, part of the problem is the complexity of the net neutrality rules. The 400-page Open Internet Order introduced in 2015 has two components. The first one is regarding net neutrality per se, which forbids internet and wireless providers from discriminating content over their networks.

The second one is about regulating the internet as a public utility (under Title II of the Telecommunications Act). Pai has shown a clear inclination against regulating broadband internet service as a utility, arguing potential government overreach and over-regulation of internet and wireless providers like Comcast or AT&T. But that doesn’t mean he is an enemy of a neutral internet. Yet his statements against classifying the internet as a utility have been used to conclude he will abolish net neutrality rules. Although related, these are two different things.

Moreover, Pai has stated he agrees with the spirit of an open and fair internet. On Tuesday when pressed on what will happen with net neutrality rules and enforcement, he stated: "I favor a free and open Internet and I oppose Title II." This is refreshing, but still makes me wonder what portions of the 400-page ruling he will be inclined to cut, and whether net neutrality rules will be undermined in the process.

It helped me to dissect the FCC's first major related action on Tuesday that removed a proposal introduced during the previous administration, which would have "unlocked" cable set-top boxes so third parties like Google and Amazon could offer their own. Pai was clearly against it as an FCC commissioner, arguing that it did not make sense to regulate a technology that was becoming outdated.

He also provided numerous arguments on how the set-top box proposal would hurt many participants, including small video services who would suffer undue financial burden to comply, content owners who would endure increased piracy and intellectual property violations as the market opened to third-party providers, and consumers who would have to put up with more set-top boxes, when in reality they want less.

Here is what it all boils down to: Pai is an advocate of pro-competitive regulations that address market failure or a systemic problem, as long as they don't inhibit market forces or create excessive or unfair burden to market participants. This means that, since the internet has certainly made many industries more competitive and innovative, Pai's FCC should see merit in ensuring the internet remains neutral, open, and fair for all content providers, and accessible to consumers.

One last relevant data point is that, upon his acceptance speech last week, Pai stated that one of his main priorities as FCC Chairman will be to increase investment in broadband where the internet is still not available, in order to bridge the digital divide. So overall, the intentions seem to be good, as he seeks both pro-investment and pro-competition policies. But these two can be competing objectives, because giving internet providers carrots to invest and innovate can go against fair competition. The devil will be in the details, but I sincerely hope the new FCC will be able to strike that delicate balance.

What do you think? Is there hope for net neutrality?

Dr. Granados is an Information Systems professor at Pepperdine Graziadio Business School. He researches digital trends in travel, media, and entertainment. Follow him on Twitter, Forbes.