Milwaukee Bucks trade Miles Plumlee to Charlotte Hornets for Spencer Hawes, Roy Hibbert
Hornets get Plumlee; Hawes, Hibbert to Bucks
Hornets get Plumlee; Hawes, Hibbert to Bucks Draymond Green's triple-double was unusual and valuable Green triple-double historically uncommon in win Sources: Durant hires extra security for return Knicks ban Oakley, fire security chief of MSG Melo: Knicks have to get out from under 'cloud' Dolan: I'll allow Phil to do his job, won't meddle Magic wants to 'call the shots' with Lakers Draymond Green steals the show from Klay Thompson Klay Thompson's heroic Game 6  vs. OKC changed everything Pain in Jimmy Butler's heel lingers in return; status for Sunday unclear 2 Related Q&A: Devin Booker talks Bledsoe, Kobe and being in the zone Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Kevin Durant returns with memories, but not regrets What Kevin Durant left behind in Oklahoma City Durant, Westbrook and the NBA's reality TV stars #NBArank Rising Stars: Where does Lakers' Ingram land? Pelton mail: How will Ben Simmons compare to Rubio? Ten (12) things I like and don't like, including the streaking Miami Heat Fantasy basketball forecaster: Feb. 13-26 Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Is the Lakers' young core making the right strides? Why we won't stop talking about Lin vs. Kobe 3 Related Photos: New York, Taiwan and the Knicks during peak Linsanity Jeremy Lin is still a symbol for whatever we want him to be What it's like to be called the 'next Jeremy Lin' Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Brian Windhorst ESPN.com NBA writer since 2010 Covered Cleveland Cavs for seven years Author of two books Marc Stein Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The Milwaukee Bucks traded forward Miles Plumlee to the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday for big men Spencer Hawes and Roy Hibbert . The 6-foot-11 Plumlee signed a four-year, $50 million deal with the Bucks during the summer but hasn't received steady playing time. He has played in just 32 games with 12 starts, averaging just 2.6 points. "We are excited to add Miles to our roster," Hornets general manager Rich Cho said in a statement. "He is an athletic big man who brings additional physicality and rebounding to our frontcourt rotation. He's a proven player with a strong work ethic and we think he'll fit in well with our core group." Injuries have slowed Hibbert this season, and recently he had fallen out of coach Steve Clifford's rotation as the Hornets have tried to shake out of a slump. Hibbert is averaging a career-low 5.2 points and 3.6 rebounds in 42 games. He signed a one-year, $5 million deal with the Hornets last year. Hawes is a veteran shooting specialist. He's averaging 7.3 points and 4.2 rebounds in 35 games but is shooting just 29 percent on 3-pointers, his lowest in seven seasons. He has a player option in his contract next season for $6 million. "Spencer and Roy are two proven NBA centers who give us additional depth and versatility in the front court," Bucks general manager John Hammond said in a statement. "The trade also gives us future cap flexibility as we continue to shape our roster. Miles and Steve [Novak] are true professionals both on and off the court, and we wish them all the best." To make room on the roster, the Bucks waived Steve Novak . Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Milwaukee Bucks traded forward Miles Plumlee to the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday for big men Spencer Hawes and Roy Hibbert.

The 6-foot-11 Plumlee signed a four-year, $50 million deal with the Bucks during the summer but hasn't received steady playing time. He has played in just 32 games with 12 starts, averaging just 2.6 points.

"We are excited to add Miles to our roster," Hornets general manager Rich Cho said in a statement. "He is an athletic big man who brings additional physicality and rebounding to our frontcourt rotation. He's a proven player with a strong work ethic and we think he'll fit in well with our core group."

Editor's Picks Trade grades: Who wins Bucks-Hornets deal? Is Miles Plumlee (and his big contract) a good gamble for the Hornets? How did the Bucks do in the deal? Kevin Pelton grades the trade.

Injuries have slowed Hibbert this season, and recently he had fallen out of coach Steve Clifford's rotation as the Hornets have tried to shake out of a slump. Hibbert is averaging a career-low 5.2 points and 3.6 rebounds in 42 games. He signed a one-year, $5 million deal with the Hornets last year.

Hawes is a veteran shooting specialist. He's averaging 7.3 points and 4.2 rebounds in 35 games but is shooting just 29 percent on 3-pointers, his lowest in seven seasons. He has a player option in his contract next season for $6 million.

"Spencer and Roy are two proven NBA centers who give us additional depth and versatility in the front court," Bucks general manager John Hammond said in a statement. "The trade also gives us future cap flexibility as we continue to shape our roster. Miles and Steve [Novak] are true professionals both on and off the court, and we wish them all the best."

To make room on the roster, the Bucks waived Steve Novak.