What To Expect From Rex Tillerson's State Department
What To Expect From Rex Tillerson's State Department
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ellen R. Wald       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The former CEO of , Rex Tillerson was confirmed today as Secretary of State by a vote of 56-43 in the Senate. Tillerson is the first Secretary of State from outside the beltway in modern times. What can we expect from his State Department? Rex Tillerson, testifies during a Senate Foreign Relations Committee confirmation hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, Jan. 11, 2017. (Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg) . This means Tillerson’s State Department will seek to understand the motivations and objectives of other countries and use this knowledge to best achieve America’s goals. For the first time in decades, the Secretary of State comes in with experience successfully running an institution of similar and international scope. Exxon was extremely successful and profitable under his leadership. His skill and experience at promoting unified goals and a proud corporate culture will improve moral and performance. In this photo taken June 21, 2012, Russian President Vladimir Putin presents ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson with a Russian medal. Many Senators raised concerns about Tillerson's supposed friendliness with the Russian leader during his confirmation hearings. (Mikhail Klimentyev/Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) In the mid-20 century and earlier the State Department regularly promoted and assisted American business abroad. Today, other agencies, such as the Commerce Department have taken on some of that role, but the State Department under Tillerson could provide more aggressive assistance to American economic interests abroad. when meeting with leaders from other countries. In comparison to some recent secretaries of state who had backgrounds as politicians or academics, Tillerson brings real experience negotiating at the highest levels. Tillerson worked his way up at Exxon from an entry level engineer in 1975 to CEO. Along the way was able to take orders but also lead. He can build a team and work within a team. If he brings the same leadership and ability to prioritize to the State Department that he exhibited at Exxon, Tillerson will be a stabilizing force, both at Foggy Bottom and at the White House.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The former CEO of , Rex Tillerson was confirmed today as Secretary of State by a vote of 56-43 in the Senate. Tillerson is the first Secretary of State from outside the beltway in modern times. What can we expect from his State Department?

The most important change will be that Tillerson will institute a realist foreign policy . This means Tillerson’s State Department will seek to understand the motivations and objectives of other countries and use this knowledge to best achieve America’s goals.

For the first time in decades, the Secretary of State comes in with experience successfully running an institution of similar and international scope. Exxon was extremely successful and profitable under his leadership. His skill and experience at promoting unified goals and a proud corporate culture will improve moral and performance.

In the mid-20th century and earlier the State Department regularly promoted and assisted American business abroad. Today, other agencies, such as the Commerce Department have taken on some of that role, but the State Department under Tillerson could provide more aggressive assistance to American economic interests abroad.

Tillerson can be expected to bring his negotiating skills to the table when meeting with leaders from other countries. In comparison to some recent secretaries of state who had backgrounds as politicians or academics, Tillerson brings real experience negotiating at the highest levels.

Tillerson worked his way up at Exxon from an entry level engineer in 1975 to CEO. Along the way was able to take orders but also lead. He can build a team and work within a team. If he brings the same leadership and ability to prioritize to the State Department that he exhibited at Exxon, Tillerson will be a stabilizing force, both at Foggy Bottom and at the White House.

Ellen R. Wald, Ph.D. is a historian and scholar of the energy industry. She writes and consults on the intersection of geopolitics and energy.