Snap Is Looking To Raise Up To $3 Billion In IPO - Docs Reveal Heavy Losses
Snap Is Looking To Raise Up To $3 Billion In IPO - Docs Reveal Heavy Losses
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kathleen Chaykowski       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Snap Inc. CEO Evan Spiegel. The messaging company's S-1 became available on DAY. (Associated Press) Snap Inc., formerly known as Snapchat, said in a regulatory filing Thursday that it plans to raise up to $3 billion in an IPO. The six-year-old company, known as much for its devoted following among millennials as for its secrecy, said it had revenue of $404.5 million in 2016, a roughly 700% increase from the year earlier. Snap’s 2016 revenue was far higher than the $250 million to $350 million range that had been expected. However, Snap isn’t yet profitable. The company said it had a net loss in 2016 of $515 million, compared with a net loss of $373 million a year earlier. And the company reported a pre-tax loss of $459.4 million in 2016. "We have incurred operating losses in the past, expect to incur operating losses in the future, and may never achieve or maintain profitability," the company wrote in the "Risk Factors" section of the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, officially known as an S-1. 158 million daily active users in the latest quarter, up 48% from the same period a year earlier.  The average Snapchat user spends 25 to 30 minutes on the app per day. More than a quarter of daily active users post to their "Stories" every day on average. Daily active users open Snapchat more than 18 times per day. 2.5 billion “snaps” (short videos or images) are created daily. More than 60% of daily active users create snaps using the app’s camera every day $1.05 in the last quarter, compared to 35 cents in the same period a year earlier. More than 60% of daily users come from the top 10 advertising markets. More than Snap plans to spend $2 billion on Google's cloud computing services in the next five years. Spiegel and Murphy each own 22.4% of Snap, worth an estimated $4 billion. Post-IPO, Spiegel will own 25% of the company because of a bonus. 1,859 The filing offers key insights into Snap strategy, executive compensation and the ownership stakes of its cofounders, CEO Evan Spiegel and CTO Bobby Murphy. The S-1 notes that the company will list its public offering under the symbol SNAP on the New York Stock Exchange, which beat out Nasdaq for the listing. Together, Spiegel and Murphy own the majority of the company's voting stock, giving them control over all stockholder decisions. Snap disclosed for the first time that it paid a total of $157.5 million to settle with its ousted cofounder Reggie Brown. Interestingly, Snap, which makes nearly all its money from advertising, described itself as a "camera company. Last fall, Snap filed its proxy confidentially with the SEC under the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which allows companies with annual revenue of less than $1 billion to file a draft of their IPO prospectus with regulators and make changes before sharing it publicly. “We believe that reinventing the camera represents our greatest opportunity to improve the way that people live and communicate,” the company said in its S-1. “Our products empower people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together. In the way that the flashing cursor became the starting point for most products on desktop computers, we believe that the camera screen will be the starting point for most products on smartphones.” The company is expected to have a valuation between $20 billion to $25 billion. Snap is on track to be the largest initial offering on a U.S. exchange since China-based Alibaba Group raised $21.8 billion in 2014 at a $168 billion valuation. By comparison, Facebook had 900 million users when it made its rocky debut on Nasdaq in 2012 at a $104 billion valuation. And Twitter had 200 million users when it went public in 2013 at a $24 billion valuation. Since, Facebook’s valuation has skyrocketed to $382 billion and Twitter’s has roughly halved. Snap competes for mobile phone time with a host of social apps, particularly Facebook and its photo-and-video app Instagram, which have 1.9 billion monthly users and 600 million monthly users, respectively. This summer, Instagram launched a successful clone of Snapchat's pioneering "Stories" feature. Facebook also plans to widely incorporate stories into its app. Among investors, Snap has been said to emphasize engagement metrics, such as total time spent and the number of messages sent, instead of the size of its user base. The company is also reportedly focused on boosting revenue per user, not on becoming globally ubiquitous. By contrast, Facebook, is making a concerted push to be widely used everywhere, including emerging markets. After filing publicly, the company now must wait 21 days before going on a road show to explain its strategy and vision to investors. The company’s chief strategy officer Imran Khan, a former Wall Street analyst, is reportedly leading the IPO process. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are the lead underwriters. The company has raised about $2.7 billion in total funding to date from investors such as General Catalyst, IVP, Coatue Management and Benchmark Capital. Snap had been previously valued by investors at about $18 billion in May. Snap, which first started selling ads in 2014, generates the bulk of its revenue from mobile ads that appear in between “Stories,” chains of photos and videos created by media companies, users or curated by Snapchat. The company also sells branded location-based filters and lenses. Snap offers advertisers less insight into campaign performance than competitors like Facebook. However, the company has taken recent steps to cater to marketers. Last year, Snap released a new interface to help advertisers purchase ads through a more automated process and also started allowing marketers to target consumers based on email databases. In January, Snap said it is making London its international headquarters. Snapchat was first founded in 2011 by Stanford classmates and fraternity brothers Spiegel and Murphy as an app for sending disappearing photos called “Picaboo.” Renamed as Snapchat, the app took off in fall 2011. In late 2013, Spiegel turned down a $3 billion buyout offer from Facebook. Spiegel, who is known for being private and blunt, grew up in the Los Angeles area and is said to be the focused, driving force behind the company’s vision and products. Spiegel’s vision for the company remains somewhat mysterious. Snapchat rebranded itself as Snap in September, indicating that its focus won’t be confined to messaging. The company forayed into hardware late last year with Spectacles, sunglasses with a built-in camera that can take and share short video clips.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Snap Inc., formerly known as Snapchat, said in a regulatory filing Thursday that it plans to raise up to $3 billion in an IPO.

The six-year-old company, known as much for its devoted following among millennials as for its secrecy, said it had revenue of $404.5 million in 2016, a roughly 700% increase from the year earlier. Snap’s 2016 revenue was far higher than the $250 million to $350 million range that had been expected. However, Snap isn’t yet profitable. The company said it had a net loss in 2016 of $515 million, compared with a net loss of $373 million a year earlier. And the company reported a pre-tax loss of $459.4 million in 2016.

"We have incurred operating losses in the past, expect to incur operating losses in the future, and may never achieve or maintain profitability," the company wrote in the "Risk Factors" section of the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, officially known as an S-1.

Other Highlights From Snap's S-1:

Users: 158 million daily active users in the latest quarter, up 48% from the same period a year earlier. User growth: Daily active user growth was "relatively flat" in the early part of the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2016, and accelerated in the month of December. Snap attributed the slower growth in part to the rise of competitors in 2016. Time Spent: The average Snapchat user spends 25 to 30 minutes on the app per day. Engagement: More than a quarter of daily active users post to their "Stories" every day on average. Engagement: Daily active users open Snapchat more than 18 times per day. Engagement: 2.5 billion “snaps” (short videos or images) are created daily. Engagement: More than 60% of daily active users create snaps using the app’s camera every day Average Revenue Per Global User: $1.05 in the last quarter, compared to 35 cents in the same period a year earlier. Business: More than 60% of daily users come from the top 10 advertising markets. Business: More than 60% of ads are watched with audio on. Business: Snap plans to spend $2 billion on Google's cloud computing services in the next five years. Founder Stakes: Spiegel and Murphy each own 22.4% of Snap, worth an estimated $4 billion. Post-IPO, Spiegel will own 25% of the company because of a bonus. Employee Count: 1,859

The filing offers key insights into Snap strategy, executive compensation and the ownership stakes of its cofounders, CEO Evan Spiegel and CTO Bobby Murphy. The S-1 notes that the company will list its public offering under the symbol SNAP on the New York Stock Exchange, which beat out Nasdaq for the listing. Together, Spiegel and Murphy own the majority of the company's voting stock, giving them control over all stockholder decisions. Snap disclosed for the first time that it paid a total of $157.5 million to settle with its ousted cofounder Reggie Brown.

Interestingly, Snap, which makes nearly all its money from advertising, described itself as a "camera company.

Last fall, Snap filed its proxy confidentially with the SEC under the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which allows companies with annual revenue of less than $1 billion to file a draft of their IPO prospectus with regulators and make changes before sharing it publicly.

“We believe that reinventing the camera represents our greatest opportunity to improve the way that people live and communicate,” the company said in its S-1. “Our products empower people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together. In the way that the flashing cursor became the starting point for most products on desktop computers, we believe that the camera screen will be the starting point for most products on smartphones.”

The company is expected to have a valuation between $20 billion to $25 billion. Snap is on track to be the largest initial offering on a U.S. exchange since China-based Alibaba Group raised $21.8 billion in 2014 at a $168 billion valuation. By comparison, Facebook had 900 million users when it made its rocky debut on Nasdaq in 2012 at a $104 billion valuation. And Twitter had 200 million users when it went public in 2013 at a $24 billion valuation. Since, Facebook’s valuation has skyrocketed to $382 billion and Twitter’s has roughly halved.

Snap competes for mobile phone time with a host of social apps, particularly Facebook and its photo-and-video app Instagram, which have 1.9 billion monthly users and 600 million monthly users, respectively. This summer, Instagram launched a successful clone of Snapchat's pioneering "Stories" feature. Facebook also plans to widely incorporate stories into its app. Among investors, Snap has been said to emphasize engagement metrics, such as total time spent and the number of messages sent, instead of the size of its user base. The company is also reportedly focused on boosting revenue per user, not on becoming globally ubiquitous. By contrast, Facebook, is making a concerted push to be widely used everywhere, including emerging markets.

After filing publicly, the company now must wait 21 days before going on a road show to explain its strategy and vision to investors. The company’s chief strategy officer Imran Khan, a former Wall Street analyst, is reportedly leading the IPO process. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are the lead underwriters. The company has raised about $2.7 billion in total funding to date from investors such as General Catalyst, IVP, Coatue Management and Benchmark Capital. Snap had been previously valued by investors at about $18 billion in May.

Snap, which first started selling ads in 2014, generates the bulk of its revenue from mobile ads that appear in between “Stories,” chains of photos and videos created by media companies, users or curated by Snapchat. The company also sells branded location-based filters and lenses. Snap offers advertisers less insight into campaign performance than competitors like Facebook. However, the company has taken recent steps to cater to marketers. Last year, Snap released a new interface to help advertisers purchase ads through a more automated process and also started allowing marketers to target consumers based on email databases. In January, Snap said it is making London its international headquarters.

Snapchat was first founded in 2011 by Stanford classmates and fraternity brothers Spiegel and Murphy as an app for sending disappearing photos called “Picaboo.” Renamed as Snapchat, the app took off in fall 2011. In late 2013, Spiegel turned down a $3 billion buyout offer from Facebook. Spiegel, who is known for being private and blunt, grew up in the Los Angeles area and is said to be the focused, driving force behind the company’s vision and products.

Spiegel’s vision for the company remains somewhat mysterious. Snapchat rebranded itself as Snap in September, indicating that its focus won’t be confined to messaging. The company forayed into hardware late last year with Spectacles, sunglasses with a built-in camera that can take and share short video clips.

Follow me on Twitter @kchaykowski and e-mail me at kchaykowski@forbes.com.