Cam Newton Says Fatherhood Has ‘Helped Me Be a Better Man’
Cam Newton Says Fatherhood Has ‘Helped Me Be a Better Man’
Super Bowl Sunday is right around the corner so you know what that means — athletes and supermodels are getting ready to take over your television screen. Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton and model Miranda Kerr have teamed up for Buick’s new “Pee Wee” ad, and Yahoo Celebrity had the chance to speak with the reigning MVP about how the TV spot hits close to home. “I’d like to say it’s just another day at the office, but it’s not,” Cam said about starring in the ad, which appropriately takes place at a Pee Wee football game. “The Super Bowl is an American holiday. The viewership you receive is like no other Sunday. For me to be able to be on this ad with Buick is quite an accomplishing thing I can scratch off my bucket list.” Cam can also scratch off meeting Miranda. “It was a sight to see her and see her work,” he noted. So was that “Hey, I have to go work with a supermodel today” conversation a hard one to have with his longtime love, Kia Proctor? “Being that [Miranda’s engaged] it makes [the conversation] easier,” the 27-year-old athlete laughed. Considering his girlfriend looks like a model herself, we’re sure she wasn’t worried. Cam and Kia welcomed their first child together, a son named Chosen, in December 2015. “Fatherhood has been great. … I’m not as bad as I thought I was!” he joked. “It’s something that a person can never really prep for, but for me I just want to be available, and it’s helped me be a better man. There are similarities that I felt being on the set of Buick and seeing those kids light up and ask me questions coming from all across the board. Things like, ‘What do you eat? How hard have you been hit?’ I think Chosen prepped me for being able to be prepared for any kid’s response.” Back at home, Chosen already seems to be inheriting his dad’s unique sense of style … and athleticism. “He’s at his age now where he’s picking out his own clothes. I just let him go in his closet, and he might come out with a red shoe … and pink shoe, but nevertheless, he’s a grown man now, so I just let him be. Ever since he’s learned how to walk he’s just been everywhere,” Newton said. “We had a workout early this morning where we knocked out our core, you know, he lead the group. We’re going on a two-mile run later on in the day, so I’m looking forward to that,” he cracked. While we all know who Cam Newton is, Chosen simply knows him as Dada … or Mama. “He doesn’t [get what I do yet],” Newton explained. “You know, to him he doesn’t even know the distinct difference of ‘Mama’ and ‘Dada.’ He’s saying it a lot, but sometimes I catch him looking at me and saying ‘Mama,’ but his vernacular is growing by the day.” After this year’s tough season, Cam wrote an emotional letter and personal video to his son called, “Dear Chosen,” on “Don’t be like me, son, be better than me. You don’t have to be an athlete to be accepted by me. … I am writing you this for you to see, to show you how much I love you, and what a real man is supposed to be,” read one part. “[I wrote that] not only for him, but for every child,” Cam explained. “One of the main reasons why I did it is just to bring awareness to men in our community to have a strong presence. Not just African-Americans, not any specific race or title. As football players we all have a responsibility, and I think that’s why I’m so lucky to be partnering with Buick to get that message out as well.” Newton continued, “I don’t say it verbally [in the ad], but you see it … kids have dreams and kids have role models. For me to be one of those role models — just like in the letter I wrote for Chosen — it’s cool to have a vulnerable side. We all go through things … being a father, being a role model, being a person that people look to for help and guidance even if they don’t even know you. Doing projects like this even allows me more responsibility to uphold.” So will Newton teach his son to play football? Or encourage him to do something outside of the limelight? “I kept getting asked that question on set, and to be honest, whatever he decides to do, that’s what we’re going to push for him to do,” Cam revealed. “One thing that the commercial hits to is parenthood. Indirectly, everybody wants to know how their son is going to do, or try and foreshadow their kids’ lives. Is football just a waste of time? Is baseball just a waste of time? Is cheerleading something she’s really going to be invested in? For me, one thing that my parents did an unbelievable job of is allowing me to choose what I wanted to do, and they just pushed me to greatness,” he continued. “They held me to a standard of, ‘Well, you’ve decided you’re going to play football, so we’re going to give you every opportunity to succeed.’ That’s all I want to do for my kid and hopefully empower other parents as well to do the same thing.”

Super Bowl Sunday is right around the corner so you know what that means — athletes and supermodels are getting ready to take over your television screen. Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton and model Miranda Kerr have teamed up for Buick’s new “Pee Wee” ad, and Yahoo Celebrity had the chance to speak with the reigning MVP about how the TV spot hits close to home.

“I’d like to say it’s just another day at the office, but it’s not,” Cam said about starring in the ad, which appropriately takes place at a Pee Wee football game. “The Super Bowl is an American holiday. The viewership you receive is like no other Sunday. For me to be able to be on this ad with Buick is quite an accomplishing thing I can scratch off my bucket list.”

Cam can also scratch off meeting Miranda. “It was a sight to see her and see her work,” he noted. So was that “Hey, I have to go work with a supermodel today” conversation a hard one to have with his longtime love, Kia Proctor?

View photos Miranda Kerr and Cam Newton teamed up for Buick’s Super Bowl ad, featuring the Encore SUV and Cascada convertible. (Photo: Buick) More

“Being that [Miranda’s engaged] it makes [the conversation] easier,” the 27-year-old athlete laughed. Considering his girlfriend looks like a model herself, we’re sure she wasn’t worried. Cam and Kia welcomed their first child together, a son named Chosen, in December 2015.

“Fatherhood has been great. … I’m not as bad as I thought I was!” he joked. “It’s something that a person can never really prep for, but for me I just want to be available, and it’s helped me be a better man. There are similarities that I felt being on the set of Buick and seeing those kids light up and ask me questions coming from all across the board. Things like, ‘What do you eat? How hard have you been hit?’ I think Chosen prepped me for being able to be prepared for any kid’s response.”

View photos Cam Newton and his main squeeze, Kia Proctor. (Photo: Evan Agostini/Invision for NFL/AP Images) More

Back at home, Chosen already seems to be inheriting his dad’s unique sense of style … and athleticism.

“He’s at his age now where he’s picking out his own clothes. I just let him go in his closet, and he might come out with a red shoe … and pink shoe, but nevertheless, he’s a grown man now, so I just let him be. Ever since he’s learned how to walk he’s just been everywhere,” Newton said. “We had a workout early this morning where we knocked out our core, you know, he lead the group. We’re going on a two-mile run later on in the day, so I’m looking forward to that,” he cracked.

While we all know who Cam Newton is, Chosen simply knows him as Dada … or Mama.

“He doesn’t [get what I do yet],” Newton explained. “You know, to him he doesn’t even know the distinct difference of ‘Mama’ and ‘Dada.’ He’s saying it a lot, but sometimes I catch him looking at me and saying ‘Mama,’ but his vernacular is growing by the day.”

Read More