Guillermo from 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' Asks Silly Questions at Super Bowl Media Day
Guillermo from 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' Asks Silly Questions at Super Bowl Media Day
Media day at the Super Bowl is always an absurd sideshow. Anyone hoping to gain intel for Sunday's game between the Atlanta Falcons and New England Patriots must look elsewhere. However, it's also an easy forum for comedians to exploit. With that in mind, sent lovable sidekick Guillermo Rodriguez to Houston's media frenzy to badger players and coaches with inane questions. His hard-hitting journalism included asking Falcons center Alex Mack which Disney princess he identifies with and quizzing Atlanta head coach Dan Quinn about . Yet his main investigation centered on uncovering Tom Brady 's scent. The quarterback's teammates said he smells like "flowers," "avocado ice cream" and "money." Guillermo's biggest triumph occurred when he accomplished a feat tougher than winning the Lombardi Trophy: He coaxed a smile out of Patriots head coach Bill Belichick . [ ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Media day at the Super Bowl is always an absurd sideshow. Anyone hoping to gain intel for Sunday's game between the Atlanta Falcons and New England Patriots must look elsewhere.

However, it's also an easy forum for comedians to exploit. With that in mind, Jimmy Kimmel Live! sent lovable sidekick Guillermo Rodriguez to Houston's media frenzy to badger players and coaches with inane questions.

His hard-hitting journalism included asking Falcons center Alex Mack which Disney princess he identifies with and quizzing Atlanta head coach Dan Quinn about The Bachelor.

Yet his main investigation centered on uncovering Tom Brady's scent. The quarterback's teammates said he smells like "flowers," "avocado ice cream" and "money."

Guillermo's biggest triumph occurred when he accomplished a feat tougher than winning the Lombardi Trophy: He coaxed a smile out of Patriots head coach Bill Belichick.

[Jimmy Kimmel Live!]