European countries where 40% population have moved abroad
The European countries where huge swathes of the population have moved


A new map of Europe has revealed where huge swathes of a country's population have decided to move and live abroad.

European countries including Portugal, Croatia, Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro and Moldova have seen more than a fifth of their population emigrate.

Meanwhile, the detailed map shows how almost five million people who were born in the United Kingdom had left to move to other countries by the end of 2015.

A detailed map shows that 43.3 per cent of those born in Bosnia and Herzegovina had left the country by 2015

Figures from the population division of the UN show the percentage of people who have left the country they were born in.

In Ireland, 18.8 per cent of those born in the country have left to move to another.

The highest number of people to leave was in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Around 1.6 million people born in the country were living overseas by 2015.

TOP 10 COUNTRIES WITH THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE BORN THERE WHO CURRENTLY LIVE ABROAD Bosnia and Herzegovina - 43.3 per cent Albania - 38.8 per cent Macedonia - 24.8 per cent Portugal - 22.3 per cent Montenegro - 22.1 per cent Moldova - 21.8 per cent Croatia - 20.4 per cent Lithuania - 18.9 per cent Ireland - 18.8 per cent Romania - 17.5 per cent

This was the equivalent of 43.3 per cent - five per cent more than the next country, Albania.

For emigrating Brits, it seems Australia is the most popular destination, reports Richard Ford at The Times.

The United Kingdom was the most popular destination for those who were born in Lithuania, Ireland and Cyprus

And the figures of 4.97 million Brits living overseas is the highest in the European Union, followed by Poland with 4.4 million people.

The number of Poles living in other countries was 11.5 per cent of its population in 2015 - a higher percentage than the UK.

Germany had 4 million people leave the country by the end of 2015 - or 5 per cent - while Italy had 2.9 million - equating to 4.9 per cent.

Alp Mehmet, vice-chairman of Migration Watch UK, campaigns for lower immigration and said the figures were a result of huge disparities in income levels.

He told the paper: 'This is the result of huge disparities in income levels and living standards between the rich and less well-off member states of the EU and other poorer European countries.'