A family found a rattlesnake in their toilet — then 23 more
A family found a rattlesnake in their toilet — then 23 more
What was supposed to be a normal morning in the McFadden household turned into a bit of a nightmare. The family from Abilene, Texas, got an unexpected bathroom visitor last week when their son Isac found a rattlesnake in their toilet—only to realize later that it wasn't the only creature slithering around the house. SEE ALSO: This guy just faced America's top 5 fears “I found this big clump and I knew it was [a] snake," a young Isac Mcfadden told WFMY News 2 . Isac's mother, Cassie, killed it quickly with a shovel while her husband Jason got on the phone with Big Country Snake Removal. "I was just like, what do you do with this?" Cassie said in an interview with WFMY. "What do you do with this? I don't know!" Cassie eventually killed the snake with the shovel but when Big Country Snake Removal arrived, a little looking around led to the discovery of 23 more rattlesnakes hidden around the house. Thirteen of the rattlesnakes were tucked away in the cellar and 10 were underneath the house. Including the one that managed to wiggle through a relief pipe into the toilet, that made for 24 snakes in total. "It's actually quite simple; rattlesnake are secretive and can be very cryptic," the company wrote on Facebook. "They rely heavily on their camouflage. This is simply how they survive. Just because you don't see them doesn't mean they aren't there." If you're scared of confronting creatures in your place of rest, don't worry too much about rattlesnakes in particular. “They’re actually very, very amazing creatures that are really misunderstand,” Big Country Snake Removal owner Hawkins told . “There are irrational fears around them.” Still, might be worth it to double-check your toilets tonight before you go to sleep. [H/T WFMY News 2 ] BONUS: Yes, this is literally a motherf*cking snake on a motherf*cking plane.

What was supposed to be a normal morning in the McFadden household turned into a bit of a nightmare.

The family from Abilene, Texas, got an unexpected bathroom visitor last week when their son Isac found a rattlesnake in their toilet—only to realize later that it wasn't the only creature slithering around the house.

“I found this big clump and I knew it was [a] snake," a young Isac Mcfadden told WFMY News 2.

Isac's mother, Cassie, killed it quickly with a shovel while her husband Jason got on the phone with Big Country Snake Removal.

"I was just like, what do you do with this?" Cassie said in an interview with WFMY. "What do you do with this? I don't know!"

Cassie eventually killed the snake with the shovel but when Big Country Snake Removal arrived, a little looking around led to the discovery of 23 more rattlesnakes hidden around the house.

Thirteen of the rattlesnakes were tucked away in the cellar and 10 were underneath the house. Including the one that managed to wiggle through a relief pipe into the toilet, that made for 24 snakes in total.

"It's actually quite simple; rattlesnake are secretive and can be very cryptic," the company wrote on Facebook. "They rely heavily on their camouflage. This is simply how they survive. Just because you don't see them doesn't mean they aren't there."

If you're scared of confronting creatures in your place of rest, don't worry too much about rattlesnakes in particular.

“They’re actually very, very amazing creatures that are really misunderstand,” Big Country Snake Removal owner Hawkins told CBS News. “There are irrational fears around them.”

Still, might be worth it to double-check your toilets tonight before you go to sleep.

[H/T WFMY News 2]