Nordstrom Drops Ivanka Trump Brand From Its Stores
Nordstrom Drops Ivanka Trump Brand From Its Stores
Ivanka Trump stilettos will soon be harder to find at Nordstrom . The department store chain said on Thursday that it had decided to put the brakes on its relationship with Ms. Trump and removed her brand from a list on its site . “We’ve said all along we make buying decisions based on performance,” Nordstrom said in a statement. “In this case, based on the brand’s performance, we’ve decided not to buy it for this season,” referring to the spring. A spokesman for the brand disputed Nordstrom’s assertion that it had not bought clothes for the coming season. The move comes amid an effort by what is called the #GrabYourWallet campaign to encourage shoppers to boycott products with ties to President Trump, his family and his donors. In November, Nordstrom defended its decision to sell Ms. Trump’s products. “We hope that offering a vendor’s products isn’t misunderstood as us taking a political position,” the company wrote on Twitter on Nov. 2. “We’re not.” Racked, a fashion news site, reported earlier on Thursday that there was a sharp decline of Ivanka Trump products on Nordstrom’s website. Advertisement Nordstrom predominantly carries Ivanka Trump’s line of shoes, which are licensed by Marc Fisher footwear. As of Thursday afternoon, only four items remained on the website: three pairs of shoes and one dress, all marked down 40 percent. “Big news everyone. You did this. I am in awe,” Shannon Coulter, a co-founder of the #GrabYourWallet campaign, posted on Twitter Thursday. Big news everyone. You did this. I am in awe. https://t.co/q9vwmyfpbn  Ms. Trump licenses her name to partners who manufacture her various branded products. Her brand makes the largest share of its revenue from licensed clothing. Shoes and handbags are also large parts of her business. In 2014, Ms. Trump earned a 6.5 percent royalty through her deal with Marc Fisher, according to company documents obtained by The New York Times, although that fee was probably renegotiated. Ms. Trump’s handbags are licensed by Mondani and are carried by Macy’s, which dropped her father’s dress shirts and accessories in 2015 after he described Mexican immigrants as “killers” and “rapists.” Her clothing, which is made by the G-III Apparel Group, is sold at retailers including Saks off 5th. Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry had its own sprawling location in Manhattan for several years, but was not profitable enough to stay open and shuttered in 2015. A small store now sells her jewelry in the lobby of Trump Tower. A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 2017, on Page A14 of the with the headline: Nordstrom Says It’s Dropping Ivanka Trump Brand.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. ON THE RUNWAY       Opinion

Photo

Ivanka Trump stilettos will soon be harder to find at Nordstrom.

The department store chain said on Thursday that it had decided to put the brakes on its relationship with Ms. Trump and removed her brand from a list on its site. “We’ve said all along we make buying decisions based on performance,” Nordstrom said in a statement. “In this case, based on the brand’s performance, we’ve decided not to buy it for this season,” referring to the spring.

A spokesman for the brand disputed Nordstrom’s assertion that it had not bought clothes for the coming season.

The move comes amid an effort by what is called the #GrabYourWallet campaign to encourage shoppers to boycott products with ties to President Trump, his family and his donors.

In November, Nordstrom defended its decision to sell Ms. Trump’s products. “We hope that offering a vendor’s products isn’t misunderstood as us taking a political position,” the company wrote on Twitter on Nov. 2. “We’re not.”

Racked, a fashion news site, reported earlier on Thursday that there was a sharp decline of Ivanka Trump products on Nordstrom’s website.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Nordstrom predominantly carries Ivanka Trump’s line of shoes, which are licensed by Marc Fisher footwear. As of Thursday afternoon, only four items remained on the website: three pairs of shoes and one dress, all marked down 40 percent.

“Big news everyone. You did this. I am in awe,” Shannon Coulter, a co-founder of the #GrabYourWallet campaign, posted on Twitter Thursday.

Ms. Trump licenses her name to partners who manufacture her various branded products. Her brand makes the largest share of its revenue from licensed clothing. Shoes and handbags are also large parts of her business. In 2014, Ms. Trump earned a 6.5 percent royalty through her deal with Marc Fisher, according to company documents obtained by The New York Times, although that fee was probably renegotiated.

Ms. Trump’s handbags are licensed by Mondani and are carried by Macy’s, which dropped her father’s dress shirts and accessories in 2015 after he described Mexican immigrants as “killers” and “rapists.” Her clothing, which is made by the G-III Apparel Group, is sold at retailers including Saks off 5th.

Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry had its own sprawling location in Manhattan for several years, but was not profitable enough to stay open and shuttered in 2015. A small store now sells her jewelry in the lobby of Trump Tower.