Man Who Murdered Former NFL Running Back Joe McKnight Indicted on Second-Degree Murder Charge
Man Who Murdered Former NFL Running Back Joe McKnight Indicted on Second-Degree Murder Charge
The sports world was shocked in December when former NFL running back Joe McKnight was shot and killed outside of New Orleans . Thursday, the man who killed McKnight, Ronald Gasser Jr., was indicted on a second-degree murder charge, according to WDSU News, the New Orleans NBC affiliate . A Louisiana grand jury heard the case and handed down the verdict. District Attorney Paul D. Connick Jr. made the announcement. Gasser was taken into custody for questioning but was initially permitted to leave , as investigators said they needed to gather more evidence. He was arrested four days after the incident on charges of manslaughter . The shooting sprung from a spiral of road rage. It is believed that the two men were driving erratically before the incident, with McKnight reportedly cutting Gasser off and infuriating him. At an intersection, Gasser fired three rounds from a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun, according to WDSU. The shots went from his position in the driver’s seat through his open passenger window. McKnight, who was 28, was working toward an NFL comeback. A highly rated high school prospect touted as “the next Reggie Bush,” McKnight attended USC, and though he had a good career for the Trojans, he never lived up to the overwhelming hype. McKnight carved out a decent career with the New York Jets and Kansas City Chiefs. He was most successful as a kick returner. Gasser faces the potential of life in jail with hard labor.

The sports world was shocked in December when former NFL running back Joe McKnight was shot and killed outside of New Orleans. Thursday, the man who killed McKnight, Ronald Gasser Jr., was indicted on a second-degree murder charge, according to WDSU News, the New Orleans NBC affiliate.

A Louisiana grand jury heard the case and handed down the verdict. District Attorney Paul D. Connick Jr. made the announcement.

Gasser was taken into custody for questioning but was initially permitted to leave, as investigators said they needed to gather more evidence. He was arrested four days after the incident on charges of manslaughter.

The shooting sprung from a spiral of road rage.

It is believed that the two men were driving erratically before the incident, with McKnight reportedly cutting Gasser off and infuriating him.

At an intersection, Gasser fired three rounds from a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun, according to WDSU. The shots went from his position in the driver’s seat through his open passenger window.

McKnight, who was 28, was working toward an NFL comeback. A highly rated high school prospect touted as “the next Reggie Bush,” McKnight attended USC, and though he had a good career for the Trojans, he never lived up to the overwhelming hype.

McKnight carved out a decent career with the New York Jets and Kansas City Chiefs. He was most successful as a kick returner.

Gasser faces the potential of life in jail with hard labor.