Mariah Carey And YG Link Up In The Video For "I Don't"
Mariah Carey And YG Link Up In The Video For "I Don't" 
Mariah Carey has a long history of collaborating with rappers. From Ol' Dirty Bastard to Mobb Deep to Snoop and beyond, the elusive chanteuse has dozens of hip-hop partnerships in her catalog. Now, she unveils a new track and video with radio station hackers' favorite rapper , YG. "I Don't" is reportedly inspired by the singer's recent breakup with her now ex-fiancé, billionaire Australian businessman James Packer. # 02.03.17 pic.twitter.com/ Just prior to the track's release, Carey went on Facebook Live for a Q&A with her fans. She let slip that she was working on a secret collaborative project, though she wouldn't say with whom. She also told her fans that she would appear in the upcoming film out February 10. You can see the full Q&A below. Hopefully "I Don't" will be successful enough to make people forget about Carey's disastrous New Year's Eve performance . You can purchase the track on iTunes or stream it below via Spotify.

Mariah Carey has a long history of collaborating with rappers. From Ol' Dirty Bastard to Mobb Deep to Snoop and beyond, the elusive chanteuse has dozens of hip-hop partnerships in her catalog. Now, she unveils a new track and video with radio station hackers' favorite rapper, YG.

"I Don't" is reportedly inspired by the singer's recent breakup with her now ex-fiancé, billionaire Australian businessman James Packer. Carey first gave fans a taste of "I Don't" on the season finale of her reality show Mariah's World.

Just prior to the track's release, Carey went on Facebook Live for a Q&A with her fans. She let slip that she was working on a secret collaborative project, though she wouldn't say with whom. She also told her fans that she would appear in the upcoming film The LEGO Batman Movie, out February 10. You can see the full Q&A below.

Hopefully "I Don't" will be successful enough to make people forget about Carey's disastrous New Year's Eve performance. You can purchase the track on iTunes or stream it below via Spotify.