How Entrepreneurs Can Build A Better Power Network, One Dinner At A Time
How Entrepreneurs Can Build A Better Power Network, One Dinner At A Time
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Cari Sommer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Pic Via Voray Over the last year, Voray has grown to twenty dinners a month in New York City, with Boston and San Francisco dinners on the calendar for early spring. The company recently raised $4 million dollars and has an eye on expansion throughout the rest of 2017.  The vision for the company is an offshoot of what Olk says he’s been doing his entire career, which is connecting people-- especially entrepreneurs, who we would then see “go off and build cool stuff together” after being introduced by a trusted source. Prior to Voray, Olk co-founded point-of-sale technology company ShopKeep, where he now sits on the Board. He was an early Board Director at Kickstarter and also previously worked in M&A at IAC/Interactive Corp. Every entrepreneur would likely agree that networking is important to career and business development. But where do you start, especially if it doesn’t come naturally?     Trending on {{channel_name}}

As J. Kelly Hoey recently wrote in her book, Build Your Dream Network, “To get things done in this hyperconnected world, you need, more often than not, access to a wide range of people with varying experiences and backgrounds. And you need to be able to tap into this knowledge network regularly.” How do you build that knowledge network? According to David Olk, Co-Founder of Voray, it comes down to building authentic professional relationships.

Voray organizes small group dinners designed to bring like-minded people together. Olk started the company in January of 2016, together with co-founders and investors Mark Gerson of GLG Group and Gavin Myers of Prudence Holdings. The intent is to provide a platform for people to meet, in-person and over a dinner, which Olk says is still the best way to get to know someone. Each dinner includes a host (typically an industry thought leader) who curates the guest list and leads a roundtable discussion at dinner, and an event partner -- who can add industry insight to the conversation, but is asked to stop short of delivering a blatant sales pitch. For guests, the evening is designed to facilitate real-time networking and relationship building within a small group setting, while for partners, it’s a chance to get in front of a specific audience in a unique way. “It’s hard to find targeted, measurable, offline marketing,” says Olk. Voray also offers a technology platform that streamlines post-event communication and contact exchange, leading to what Olk ultimately hopes will become a more authentic version of LinkedIn.

Over the last year, Voray has grown to twenty dinners a month in New York City, with Boston and San Francisco dinners on the calendar for early spring. The company recently raised $4 million dollars and has an eye on expansion throughout the rest of 2017. The vision for the company is an offshoot of what Olk says he’s been doing his entire career, which is connecting people-- especially entrepreneurs, who we would then see “go off and build cool stuff together” after being introduced by a trusted source. Prior to Voray, Olk co-founded point-of-sale technology company ShopKeep, where he now sits on the Board. He was an early Board Director at Kickstarter and also previously worked in M&A at IAC/Interactive Corp.

Every entrepreneur would likely agree that networking is important to career and business development. But where do you start, especially if it doesn’t come naturally?

Focus on authenticity: One of the misconceptions, Olk notes, is that authenticity means saying whatever’s on your mind. “It’s not. It’s about genuinely showing up for people and showing them that you’re invested in their success.” Or as Hoey notes in her book, “Being successful at networking is realizing that to get where you’re going you need to help others get to where they’re going to.”

Showcase Your interests: “Everyone has interests,” says Olk. “Read and follow and get engaged in things that are important to you. Get involved with the people who also care about those topics. Showcase your interests as a way of speaking to the community that you want to meet.” Blogs are great for this, he adds, and can often serve as icebreakers on and offline.

Get to Know the People Around You: Ultimately, Olk notes, networking should just be about getting to know the people around you (which incidentally, he notes, despite our digital world is a throwback to how business used to be done). For Olk personally, “it’s part of being professional, a human being and a dad.”

And why does it matter? Says Olk, “At a certain level it will be presumed you know what you’re doing. It’s the strength of your network that will take you to the next level.”