Nasa Engineers' selfie with object some thought was UFO
Nasa takes selfie with object conspiracy theorists thought was a UFO


Alien hunters were convinced they had spotted a captured UFO on Wednesday.

Keen-eyed conspiracy theorists spotted a strange circular object on Google Earth satellite images of Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory near Los Angeles.

Some alien hunters claimed that the object was a flying saucer parked on the runway.

But Nasa engineers have since debunked the theory by taking a selfie with the mystery shape.

Scroll down for video

Alien hunters were convinced they had spotted a captured UFO on Wednesday. A keen-eyed conspiracy theorists spotted a strange circular objects on Google Earth satellite images of Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory near Los Angeles

Nasa scientist Dr Nacer Chahat tweeted the photo earlier today.

In response to Twitter user @ufoofinterest, who had posted a link to an article on the so-called UFO, he wrote: 'Here is what you think is a UFO. The only alien is me.'

Dr Chahat's picture shows him stood with a colleague near the object, which appears to be a storage container.

@ufoofinterest here is what you think is a UFO :) the only alien is me pic.twitter.com/jwRif8esr0 — Nacer Chahat (@astro_nac) February 3, 2017

YouTube user 'Name Shame' originally spotted the object on Google Earth on Wednesday and published the images on his YouTube channel.

'Is NASA playing games?.. UFO captured? What is it?' he said in the post.

The JPL, near Los Angeles, is the birthplace of the US's first satellite to orbit the Earth.

Earlier this week, alien hunters claimed that the white disc-like object was a flying saucer

Nasa engineers have debunked the conspiracy theory by taking photos of the mystery object

The 'Explorer 1' satellite launched in 1958.

The JPL now acts as the headquarters for exploratory missions to study distant planets and asteroids.

'I doubt this is a captured extraterrestrial flying saucer, more likely it is a structure or vehicle that has a flying saucer shape,' Nigel Watson, author of the UFO Investigations Manual, told MailOnline earlier this week.

The JPL is the birthplace of America's first satellite to orbit the Earth back in 1958. It now acts as the headquarters for several upcoming exploratory missions to study distant planets and asteroids

'Secondly, why would they leave it out in the open to be spotted by the likes of Google Earth?

'Seeing strange anomalies on Google seems to be the latest craze that is rivalling the watching of live images from the International Space Station to get a glimpse of UFOs.

'In most of these instances we see what we look for.'

This is not the first time that UFO Hunters have used Google's satellite technology to make bizarre claims about aliens.

Earlier this month a self-proclaimed ufologist claimed footage of himself fighting and being abducted by aliens had been caught on camera by Google maps.

A man who called himself John Mooner, from Newton Abbot in Devon, claimed a 'real alien abduction' has been captured taking place on Google's satellite cameras.

The green glow is supposedly light from an alien ship hoping to beam him up. The small red circles allegedly show him being punched in the face by an alien. A zoomed in version is shown top right

THE 'ABDUCTION' Mr Mooner claimed he does not remember the abduction at all, but is convinced it is himself in the footage. 'I do remember sporadic episodes of missing time throughout the year of 2016 and going back through the previous years,' he said. He is convinced from looking at a series of pictures that he was abducted. 'The shocking thing about this was that it's me being abducted by a grey alien and the satellite image clearly shows me trying to fight off the grey alien by punching it in the face,' he said.

'I was having trouble with the Google Earth app that was installed on my computer so I looked for an online option and found Google satellite maps,' Mr Mooner told the Torquay Herald Express.

'I thought to myself I will view the area where I was UFO spotted from last year and look for anything out of the ordinary.

'I was left speechless by what I saw.

'The satellite has captured a real alien abduction taking place.'

The pictures were released by Mr Mooner, who claims he took them from Google maps.

Where exactly the abduction took place is unknown.

'The shocking thing about this was that it's me being abducted by a grey alien and the satellite image clearly shows me trying to fight off the grey alien by punching it in the face,' he said.

Mr Mooner claims he does not remember the abduction at all, but is convinced it is himself in the footage. 'I do however remember sporadic episodes of missing time throughout the year of 2016 and going back through the previous years,' he said

'Looking at the image it appears that the alien has blocked my punch and has grabbed my fist and must of been able to subdue me [sic].'

Mr Mooner claims he does not remember the abduction at all, but is convinced it is himself in the footage.

'I do however remember sporadic episodes of missing time throughout the year of 2016 and going back through the previous years,' he said.

'I do remember wearing a black baseball cap and shirt. This is definitely me on the satellite image.'