Iran to blind acid-attack woman in Sharia retribution punishment
Iran to blind acid-attack woman in Sharia retribution punishment 
ran's supreme court has ruled that a woman must be blinded in one eye as punishment for an acid attack that left her victim sightless, using the principle of "eye for an eye" of Sharia, the Islamic law, Tasnim news agency, which is close to the elite Revolutionary Guards, reported on Thursday. Under Sharia, imposed since the 1979 Islamic revolution , qesas (retribution) is permitted in cases where bodily injuries are inflicted. he convicted attacker, who was not identified, was found guilty of throwing acid in the face of her victim, identified as Sima, two years ago in the city of Dehdasht, Tasnim reported. "The sentence to blindness in one eye, payment of blood money (compensation), and seven years imprisonment have been confirmed by the highest court," Tasnim quoted head of judiciary Majid Karami in the province of Kohgiluyeh as saying. Calculated cruelty: Wave of floggings, amputations and forced blindings carried out in Iran over the past year https://t.co/FtMKW4YaOX  pic.twitter.com/NuJUJzgqMV r Karami did not say when the sentence was scheduled to be carried out. Victims and their families have the final say and can prevent the punishment from being imposed, under the law . Activist Mohammad Surizad in Tehran told Reuters that some activists had urged Sima's family to "show clemency" and pardon the convicted woman. Iranian officials, concerned about the increase in the rate of acid attacks, have endorsed retribution. Rights group Amnesty International have urged Iran not to inflict the punishment. Amnesty also recorded an incident in November 2016 when a man was forcibly blinded in both eyes in Tehran in retribution for blinding a four-year-old girl in an acid attack in June 2009. everal acid attacks have been reported in Iran in the past few years. In 2011, an Iranian woman blinded with acid by her suitor after she spurned his marriage offers spared him hours before surgeons prepared to blind the man with acid . The practice of carrying out an "eye for an eye" punishment also applies to other crimes in Iran, such as murder. A victim's family can demand the death of a convicted murderer or commute the sentence in return for financial compensation from the criminal.

Mr Karami did not say when the sentence was scheduled to be carried out. Victims and their families have the final say and can prevent the punishment from being imposed, under the law.

Activist Mohammad Surizad in Tehran told Reuters that some activists had urged Sima's family to "show clemency" and pardon the convicted woman.

Iranian officials, concerned about the increase in the rate of acid attacks, have endorsed retribution.

Rights group Amnesty International have urged Iran not to inflict the punishment.

Amnesty also recorded an incident in November 2016 when a man was forcibly blinded in both eyes in Tehran in retribution for blinding a four-year-old girl in an acid attack in June 2009.