'Ugliness And Handicap' Are Reasons Behind Higher Dowry, Teaches Maharashtra School Textbook
'Ugliness And Handicap' Are Reasons Behind Higher Dowry, Teaches Maharashtra School Textbook
'Ugliness And Handicap' Are Reasons Behind Higher Dowry, Teaches Maharashtra School Textbook According to the class XII sociology textbook of the Maharashtra state board 'ugliness and handicap' are reasons why parents have to shell out a higher dowry to get their daughters married. The textbook which was first printed in 2013 is used by thousands of students who opt to study sociology at the junior college level in the state every year. It is created by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. The textbook, in its chapter titled - Major social problems in India has discussed dowry, problems of working women, domestic violence among other things. Apart from stating ugliness and handicap as a reason for dowry, the book says that about negotiations during son's marriage to fund for the daughter's wedding, bride's family turning into criminals to arrange for dowry, are some of the consequences. According to teachers, while the issues might be a ground reality, the textbook should have used a more academic language. "These are issues which are real and we cannot deny it but when we first read the text, I was offended. It could be handled far more delicately. When we read out in class, it is very awkward if there is a student with disabilities. In addition to, the teenagers are extremely self-conscious of their image and it could hurt them," said a teacher of the subject in a south Mumbai college. Similarly, sociologist and professor, Nandini Sardesai feels the text has been written from a chauvinistic viewpoint. "The students should just be told that dowry is a social evil and it must be eradicated no matter what. Steps must be taken to rectify this because it is sending wrong signals to the students." Maharashtra education minister, Vinod Tawde, has assured to review the contents of the textbook and had already spoken to Gangadhar Mhamane, the chairperson of the board. "The content in the syllabus is old and the textbook is existing for the past three years. Politics and school syllabus should not be mixed. This issue is related to the school syllabus and there is an academic board that decides the textbooks. I think the academic board has tried to reflect the social reality in this chapter," he said.

According to the class XII sociology textbook of the Maharashtra state board 'ugliness and handicap' are reasons why parents have to shell out a higher dowry to get their daughters married.

AFP

The textbook which was first printed in 2013 is used by thousands of students who opt to study sociology at the junior college level in the state every year. It is created by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.

The textbook, in its chapter titled - Major social problems in India has discussed dowry, problems of working women, domestic violence among other things. Apart from stating ugliness and handicap as a reason for dowry, the book says that about negotiations during son's marriage to fund for the daughter's wedding, bride's family turning into criminals to arrange for dowry, are some of the consequences.

Twitter

According to teachers, while the issues might be a ground reality, the textbook should have used a more academic language.

"These are issues which are real and we cannot deny it but when we first read the text, I was offended. It could be handled far more delicately. When we read out in class, it is very awkward if there is a student with disabilities. In addition to, the teenagers are extremely self-conscious of their image and it could hurt them," said a teacher of the subject in a south Mumbai college.

Similarly, sociologist and professor, Nandini Sardesai feels the text has been written from a chauvinistic viewpoint.

"The students should just be told that dowry is a social evil and it must be eradicated no matter what. Steps must be taken to rectify this because it is sending wrong signals to the students."

Twitter

Maharashtra education minister, Vinod Tawde, has assured to review the contents of the textbook and had already spoken to Gangadhar Mhamane, the chairperson of the board.

"The content in the syllabus is old and the textbook is existing for the past three years. Politics and school syllabus should not be mixed. This issue is related to the school syllabus and there is an academic board that decides the textbooks. I think the academic board has tried to reflect the social reality in this chapter," he said.

Originally Published in the Times Of India