What is Dodd-Frank? And is Trump about to cause another financial crisis?
What is Dodd-Frank? And is Trump about to cause another financial crisis?
Popular videos    How to dance if you want to seem attractive, according to study      Katy Perry has finally released her latest banger      Love Knot afternoon tea at Conrad London St. James      Emma Watson enters a surveillance dystopia in The Circle trailer   Donald Trump is expected to order a review of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crash since the Great Depression. But what actually is Dodd-Frank and does it really matter if it’s scrapped? The , as it is official known, was introduced in 2010 in direct response to the financial crisis. It was broadly considered the most comprehensive set of financial regulatory reform measures implemented since the Great Depression to stop financial institutions from being reckless.   Fears of Trump dismantling Dodd-Frank sends banking shares higher Firstly, the act created the , a body which is effectively in charge of looking for risks within the financial system, especially as so many of the big banks are so interconnected and considered ‘too big to fail’: if one did fail, we could see a domino effect. The council has the right to break up banks that it thinks could pose a systemic risk to the global financial order. It also has the ability to demand that banks hold higher reserves, or cash buffers, to minimise a squeeze. Separately, the Dodd-Frank Act also created the , to oversee consumer financial products, such as mortgages. A key part of the Act is the , which restricts the way that banks are allowed to invest and places restrictions on speculative trading. It also restricts banks from engaging in so-called proprietary trading, or trading for the firm’s direct gain, instead of on behalf of a client. So in effect, the rule is designed to separate the investment and commercial businesses of banks. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act also creates incentives for whistle-blowers. Donald Trump implied during his campaign that he thinks that getting rid of - or at least dramatically reforming - the Dodd-Frank Act will encourage economic growth and create jobs. "Dodd-Frank has made it impossible for bankers to function," he told Reuters in an interview back in May last year. "It makes it very hard for bankers to loan money for people to create jobs, for people with businesses to create jobs. And that has to stop." Donald Trump is not alone in thinking that Dodd-Frank needs to be reformed. Many experts say that it’s inadequate and hasn’t achieved what it was designed to. It hasn’t successfully led to the split up of many banks that are arguably too big to fail. Just think of Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and JP Morgan. But there’s a strong feeling among experts that it’s better than nothing.  It’s stopped many of the biggest players in the industry from making massive, risky bets that could go dramatically wrong and cost billions. It’s also tightened up consumer protection. And there’s a real possibility that if regulation in the US were scaled back in a big way, it could pressure regulators elsewhere to become more relaxed, simply in order to stay more competitive. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  Some economists have even been bold enough to say that getting rid of Dodd-Frank could indeed pave the way for another crisis. What makes matters a lot worse, is that many experts believe that global financial systems and economies are more vulnerable now than they were ahead of the last financial crisis. So if we do suffer another major crash, the damage has the potential to be a lot more grave. Central banks around the world have already slashed interest rates to record lows leaving them with limited ammunition to do more to stimulate economic growth. Government debt has also sky rocketed over the decade since the last crisis. More about: Donald Trump Financial Crisis Comments

Donald Trump is expected to order a review of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crash since the Great Depression.

But what actually is Dodd-Frank and does it really matter if it’s scrapped?

What is Dodd-Frank?

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as it is official known, was introduced in 2010 in direct response to the financial crisis. It was broadly considered the most comprehensive set of financial regulatory reform measures implemented since the Great Depression to stop financial institutions from being reckless.

Firstly, the act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a body which is effectively in charge of looking for risks within the financial system, especially as so many of the big banks are so interconnected and considered ‘too big to fail’: if one did fail, we could see a domino effect.

The council has the right to break up banks that it thinks could pose a systemic risk to the global financial order. It also has the ability to demand that banks hold higher reserves, or cash buffers, to minimise a squeeze. Separately, the Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to oversee consumer financial products, such as mortgages.

A key part of the Act is the Volcker Rule, which restricts the way that banks are allowed to invest and places restrictions on speculative trading. It also restricts banks from engaging in so-called proprietary trading, or trading for the firm’s direct gain, instead of on behalf of a client.

So in effect, the rule is designed to separate the investment and commercial businesses of banks.

Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act also creates incentives for whistle-blowers.

Why does Donald Trump not like it?

Donald Trump implied during his campaign that he thinks that getting rid of - or at least dramatically reforming - the Dodd-Frank Act will encourage economic growth and create jobs.

"Dodd-Frank has made it impossible for bankers to function," he told Reuters in an interview back in May last year. "It makes it very hard for bankers to loan money for people to create jobs, for people with businesses to create jobs. And that has to stop."

Does this mean we’re at risk of facing another financial crisis?

Donald Trump is not alone in thinking that Dodd-Frank needs to be reformed. Many experts say that it’s inadequate and hasn’t achieved what it was designed to. It hasn’t successfully led to the split up of many banks that are arguably too big to fail. Just think of Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and JP Morgan.

But there’s a strong feeling among experts that it’s better than nothing. It’s stopped many of the biggest players in the industry from making massive, risky bets that could go dramatically wrong and cost billions. It’s also tightened up consumer protection.

And there’s a real possibility that if regulation in the US were scaled back in a big way, it could pressure regulators elsewhere to become more relaxed, simply in order to stay more competitive.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

Some economists have even been bold enough to say that getting rid of Dodd-Frank could indeed pave the way for another crisis.

What makes matters a lot worse, is that many experts believe that global financial systems and economies are more vulnerable now than they were ahead of the last financial crisis. So if we do suffer another major crash, the damage has the potential to be a lot more grave.

Central banks around the world have already slashed interest rates to record lows leaving them with limited ammunition to do more to stimulate economic growth. Government debt has also sky rocketed over the decade since the last crisis.