Now Taxmen Can Search Tax Returns From Past 10 Years To Find Black Money
Now Taxmen Can Search Tax Returns From Past 10 Years To Find Black Money
Now Taxmen Can Search Tax Returns From Past 10 Years To Find Black Money Income Tax Department can now scrutinise income tax returns of previous 10 years if any search leads them to undisclosed deposits or property of over Rs 50 lakh. In the Budget for 2017-18, the finance minister, Arun Jaitley, has proposed to increase the scrutiny period to 10 years from the present ceiling of six years. Also Read: Here's How India's New Income Tax Laws Can Be Abused By Taxmen "What we have said now is (that) if during a search we find there is any asset or income worth over Rs 50 lakh which is not disclosed and is older than four years, then we can go back to 10 years," CBDT chairman Sushil Chandra said. According to the memorandum to the Finance Bill 2017, the amendment to the Income Tax Act will take effect from April 1, 2017. This means that the books of accounts of an assessee can be reopened by taxmen back till 2007. Also Read: Income Tax Department Will Target Indian MNCs Who Avoid Paying Proper Taxes The amendment seeks to check tax evasion where "tangible evidence" in the form of undisclosed investment in assets are found during a search or seizure operation. The amendment to the I-T Act empowers tax officials to issue notices to such assessees up to the 10th assessment year, beyond the sixth assessment year already provided for in the I-T Act. Also Read: No Cash Transactions Over Rs 3 Lakhs, Reduction In Income Tax And Other Highlights From Budget 2017 As per the amendment, notices can be issued if the assessing officer has in his possession books of accounts or other documents or evidence which reveal that the income that has escaped assessment amounts to Rs 50 lakh or more in a year or in the aggregate of four assessment years.

Income Tax Department can now scrutinise income tax returns of previous 10 years if any search leads them to undisclosed deposits or property of over Rs 50 lakh.

BCCL/representational image

In the Budget for 2017-18, the finance minister, Arun Jaitley, has proposed to increase the scrutiny period to 10 years from the present ceiling of six years.

Also Read: Here's How India's New Income Tax Laws Can Be Abused By Taxmen

"What we have said now is (that) if during a search we find there is any asset or income worth over Rs 50 lakh which is not disclosed and is older than four years, then we can go back to 10 years," CBDT chairman Sushil Chandra said.

BCCL/representational image

According to the memorandum to the Finance Bill 2017, the amendment to the Income Tax Act will take effect from April 1, 2017. This means that the books of accounts of an assessee can be reopened by taxmen back till 2007.

Also Read: Income Tax Department Will Target Indian MNCs Who Avoid Paying Proper Taxes

The amendment seeks to check tax evasion where "tangible evidence" in the form of undisclosed investment in assets are found during a search or seizure operation.

BCCL/representational image

The amendment to the I-T Act empowers tax officials to issue notices to such assessees up to the 10th assessment year, beyond the sixth assessment year already provided for in the I-T Act.

Also Read: No Cash Transactions Over Rs 3 Lakhs, Reduction In Income Tax And Other Highlights From Budget 2017

As per the amendment, notices can be issued if the assessing officer has in his possession books of accounts or other documents or evidence which reveal that the income that has escaped assessment amounts to Rs 50 lakh or more in a year or in the aggregate of four assessment years.

Inputs From PTI