Rod Culleton's election invalid: High Court orders special recount of WA senate vote



Rod Culleton's election invalid: High Court orders special recount of WA senate vote

Updated

The High Court has ordered a special recount of the WA Senate vote after it declared the election of former One Nation senator Rod Culleton invalid.

Key points: Mr Culleton's former senate position to be filled by the recount of votes

His replacement is likely to be brother-in-law Peter Georgiou

Mr Culleton quit One Nation over disagreements with Pauline Hanson

The court has ordered the vacancy be filled by the recount, with details to be determined by a single justice.

The court was asked to rule on whether a conviction at the time of the poll was grounds for disqualifications even though it was later annulled.

Mr Culleton was not in Canberra for the ruling.

ABC election analyst Antony Green said the recount of votes had technically already been carried out.

Green said the recount would likely be rubber-stamped and One Nation's second candidate, Rod Culleton's brother-in-law Peter Georgiou, would be declared elected.

"There is no path back for Rod Culleton because, say if Mr Georgiou resigned his seat to try to let Mr Culleton back in, One Nation would determine who fills it," he said.

"So that's the end of Rod Culleton's Senate career."

Georgiou 'very proud' to represent One Nation

One Nation leader Pauline Hanson has praised Mr Georgiou as a "dedicated, hardworking man".

In a statement, Senator Hanson said he would be an asset to the team.

Mr Georgiou said he would be "very proud" and humbled to represent One Nation in West Australia.

"I feel lucky an honoured to be an Australian and have the opportunity, as an everyday citizen, to serve the constituents of WA and am looking forward to working with my One Nation colleagues," he said in a statement.

"As a small business owner I recognise that hard work is critical in achieving our goals."

The Senate referred the validity of Mr Culleton's election in November, claiming he had a conviction against his name at the time of the poll for stealing the keys to a tow truck.

Under the Constitution, that would disqualify him from sitting in Federal Parliament.

Mr Culleton had argued he was in the clear, because the conviction was annulled after the election on July 2 and after he was declared the 12th senator for WA.

However, the Commonwealth maintained that at all times during the election process he was disqualified from running for office.

In December, the Federal Court ruled he was an "undischarged bankrupt" in a case brought by former business partners — another ground for disqualification from the Senate.

Earlier this year, Senate president Stephen Parry followed that disqualification and declared Mr Culleton's seat was vacant.

Mr Culleton quit Pauline Hanson's One Nation party during the proceedings, after deep divisions emerged between the West Australian and his party leader.

He voted against the party on a number of policies, including the backpacker tax.

Heated arguments between Senator Hanson and Mr Culleton's offices also came to light, with accusations of bullying and a breakdown in communication.

Topics: courts-and-trials, law-crime-and-justice, federal-parliament, federal-government, canberra-2600, act, australia, perth-6000, wa

First posted