Man Stabs Guard At High-Security Louvre Museum In Paris, Cops Shoot Him
Man Stabs Guard At High-Security Louvre Museum In Paris, Cops Shoot Him
Man Stabs Guard At High-Security Louvre Museum In Paris, Cops Shoot Him A man holding a machete was shot and injured by security forces at the world-famous Louvre museum in Paris on Friday. One soldier was injured in the attack by the knifeman, who was shot five times, but is still alive even though he suffered grave injuries. City Police Chief Michel Cadot said the two backpacks he was carrying did not contain explosives. Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve called the attack "terrorist in nature" after the incident which led streets around the world-famous museum to be sealed off. The shooting comes with France on its highest state of alert with thousands of troops patrolling the capital following a string of attacks in the last few years. Soldiers in uniform carrying automatic rifles are regularly seen walking in the area around the Louvre, which is one of the main tourist attractions in Paris, drawing millions of visitors every year. The huge former royal palace in the heart of the city is home to the Mona Lisa and other renowned works of art but also a shopping complex and numerous exhibition spaces. "The people who were in the museum - there were about 250 of them - were held at a distance and confined in secure areas of the Louvre," Cadot said. "We will start taking them out in small groups."  France has suffered a string of attacks in recent years, beginning in January 2015 when jihadist gunmen killed journalists at the Charlie Hebdo satirical newspaper in Paris in revenge for publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. The Louvre was already suffering from a fall in visitor numbers after the series of attacks in France. Over the last two years, numbers are down about two million, casting doubt on its claim to be the most visited museum in the world.

A man holding a machete was shot and injured by security forces at the world-famous Louvre museum in Paris on Friday. One soldier was injured in the attack by the knifeman, who was shot five times, but is still alive even though he suffered grave injuries.

AP

City Police Chief Michel Cadot said the two backpacks he was carrying did not contain explosives.

Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve called the attack "terrorist in nature" after the incident which led streets around the world-famous museum to be sealed off.

AFP

The shooting comes with France on its highest state of alert with thousands of troops patrolling the capital following a string of attacks in the last few years.

Soldiers in uniform carrying automatic rifles are regularly seen walking in the area around the Louvre, which is one of the main tourist attractions in Paris, drawing millions of visitors every year.

The huge former royal palace in the heart of the city is home to the Mona Lisa and other renowned works of art but also a shopping complex and numerous exhibition spaces.

"The people who were in the museum - there were about 250 of them - were held at a distance and confined in secure areas of the Louvre," Cadot said.

"We will start taking them out in small groups." France has suffered a string of attacks in recent years, beginning in January 2015 when jihadist gunmen killed journalists at the Charlie Hebdo satirical newspaper in Paris in revenge for publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.

AP

The Louvre was already suffering from a fall in visitor numbers after the series of attacks in France.

Over the last two years, numbers are down about two million, casting doubt on its claim to be the most visited museum in the world.

Last year, there was a 15-percent slump in visitors compared to 2015, to around 7.3 million.

With inputs from AFP