What it’s really like to travel as a blind person
What it’s really like to travel as a blind person
India was a blur. It was my first big trip overseas: I’d never travelled without my family or even been outside Europe – and of course India itself is pretty overwhelming, with all of its smells and sounds and people. I was there with Traveleyes, which pairs blind travellers with fully-sighted ones, who describe the sights and scenes to their visually-impaired companions. It has opened up the world for me. How do you “see” a place when you’re blind? We went to visit the Taj Mahal, but of course it’s quite difficult to get a sense of the place when you’re visually impaired, so we had to be creative. We went to a craft workshop afterwards, where they make miniature marble models of the Taj Mahal, so we could get a sense of what it looks like – to feel what we would have seen. On a Traveleyes trip, you’re paired with a different person every day – you ask them questions, they describe what they see to you, and you get to make some really good friends along the way. Delhi, Agra and Jaipur were quite overwhelming, but most people are actually very good at describing something in front of them, and with all the smells and sounds it all comes together. Since then, I’ve travelled to Malta, China, Jamaica and Peru, as well as all over Europe independently. Through Traveleyes, I’ve met lots of people who live all over the world, so I go to visit them. I’m studying German and French at the University of Nottingham, and am currently working towards my degree in Germany. So yes, you could say I’m quite independent and adventurous. Sometimes, people ask me what I get out of travelling. Obviously, I can’t see the big sights, but I can still get the impression of places and experience what they have to offer, and I get a lot out of that. As long as you’re with someone who is willing to tell you stuff and answer questions, it works really well. Some people aren’t sure how to start describing a place, but I always say to them just tell me about something that catches your eye – because if you’ve noticed it, it must be interesting. I often find the little things most fascinating. When we were in India, somebody was telling me about all the families and people that squeeze on to the back of motorbikes over there – if nobody had told me about it, I would never have known. Also, the benefits work both ways. People have told me that travelling with someone who’s visually impaired actually changes how they see things because they actually have to think about what they’re looking at and how to describe it. As a sighted person, because you’re actively observing things rather than just passively looking at them, it really enhances the experience. I tend not to ask too many questions, because it’s better to have a natural conversation, but if I’m at a specific monument or a place I’ve really wanted to go to for ages I will ask a lot. I want to know about the shapes, the positions of things, the light, the people. The best thing about travelling with a tour operator like Traveleyes is that I can just go. If I wanted to travel to Rome on my own, I simply couldn’t just go. I’d have to find someone who was willing to go with me, who had the money to go – it’s not easy. It’s pretty impossible for me to get around a new place on my own, to find somewhere to eat or something to do. That’s the difficult bit. Getting there is much easier though. If I’m going to stay with a friend, I take the train or plane on my own. There are great systems in place for disabled travellers in airports and train stations. Most people don’t realise they exist because they don’t need them. What I find frustrating is that those systems aren’t always in place on the cheapest form of transport – take buses for example. We definitely need ‘talking buses’ in the UK – they announce which stop you’re at, just like trains or trams or the Tube. It’s not rocket science, but it really helps. If I take the bus in the UK I have to ask the driver to tell me. If they forget, then you have to get off somewhere completely unfamiliar and rely on someone else helping you. It’s very frustrating. As a general rule, within mainland Europe, people are very aware of people with disabilities. When I check into a hotel, the receptionist sees my cane and usually offers me assistance. I will generally ask a receptionist to show me where my room is when I check in, but after that I can find it on my own. Getting around the room itself isn’t a problem. Much more difficult is getting a buffet breakfast in the morning. I’m not safe to carry hot food and drink around my own house without spilling stuff, so in a place I don’t know and with lots of other people around it’s not easy at all. When I’m travelling with Traveleyes, I think there are lots of people who would want to ask our group questions, but they feel they can’t. But when you go to somewhere like India or China, they don’t have those kinds of boundaries. You get lots of people coming up to you, asking who you are and what you’re doing. Some people really go the extra mile. In Peru, we went to a pre-colonial history museum, and they got the exhibits out for us to hold. It really brought it to life for us. Of course I get lost and need help when I’m travelling – actually, it happens at least twice a week in the town where I live. As a completely blind person, I know sometimes I can be half a metre away from the thing or place I’m looking for, but I’m not going to find it because I’m not touching it. And that’s that. I do appreciate it when people come up to me on the street and ask me if I need any help – but only if it’s done in the right way. So many people grab my arm or my shoulder and think that’s OK but it’s not. You don’t know who they are or what their intentions are. People don’t mean it to be unsettling, but it is. My most useful tool for getting around is the general public – without them, I’d be completely lost. I’d probably be lost right now, in fact.

Liam Mackin is blind, but that doesn’t mean that travel is out of the question. Over the past few years, the 22-year-old student from West Yorkshire has explored 20 different countries, both independently and with Traveleyes, a tour operator which specialises in group trips for blind and visually-impaired holidaymakers. Here, Mackin describes what it’s like to travel without your sense of sight.

India was a blur. It was my first big trip overseas: I’d never travelled without my family or even been outside Europe – and of course India itself is pretty overwhelming, with all of its smells and sounds and people.

I was there with Traveleyes, which pairs blind travellers with fully-sighted ones, who describe the sights and scenes to their visually-impaired companions. It has opened up the world for me.

How do you “see” a place when you’re blind? We went to visit the Taj Mahal, but of course it’s quite difficult to get a sense of the place when you’re visually impaired, so we had to be creative. We went to a craft workshop afterwards, where they make miniature marble models of the Taj Mahal, so we could get a sense of what it looks like – to feel what we would have seen.

Liam at Delhi's Lotus Temple

On a Traveleyes trip, you’re paired with a different person every day – you ask them questions, they describe what they see to you, and you get to make some really good friends along the way. Delhi, Agra and Jaipur were quite overwhelming, but most people are actually very good at describing something in front of them, and with all the smells and sounds it all comes together.

Since then, I’ve travelled to Malta, China, Jamaica and Peru, as well as all over Europe independently. Through Traveleyes, I’ve met lots of people who live all over the world, so I go to visit them. I’m studying German and French at the University of Nottingham, and am currently working towards my degree in Germany. So yes, you could say I’m quite independent and adventurous.

Sometimes, people ask me what I get out of travelling. Obviously, I can’t see the big sights, but I can still get the impression of places and experience what they have to offer, and I get a lot out of that.

"We went to visit the Taj Mahal, but of course it’s quite difficult to get a sense of the place when you’re visually impaired, so we had to be creative"

As long as you’re with someone who is willing to tell you stuff and answer questions, it works really well. Some people aren’t sure how to start describing a place, but I always say to them just tell me about something that catches your eye – because if you’ve noticed it, it must be interesting.

I often find the little things most fascinating. When we were in India, somebody was telling me about all the families and people that squeeze on to the back of motorbikes over there – if nobody had told me about it, I would never have known.

People have told me that travelling with someone who's visually impaired actually changes how they see the world

Also, the benefits work both ways. People have told me that travelling with someone who’s visually impaired actually changes how they see things because they actually have to think about what they’re looking at and how to describe it. As a sighted person, because you’re actively observing things rather than just passively looking at them, it really enhances the experience.

I tend not to ask too many questions, because it’s better to have a natural conversation, but if I’m at a specific monument or a place I’ve really wanted to go to for ages I will ask a lot. I want to know about the shapes, the positions of things, the light, the people.

The best thing about travelling with a tour operator like Traveleyes is that I can just go. If I wanted to travel to Rome on my own, I simply couldn’t just go. I’d have to find someone who was willing to go with me, who had the money to go – it’s not easy.

It’s pretty impossible for me to get around a new place on my own, to find somewhere to eat or something to do. That’s the difficult bit.

Travelling by plane is usually straightforward, says Liam, buses less so

Getting there is much easier though. If I’m going to stay with a friend, I take the train or plane on my own. There are great systems in place for disabled travellers in airports and train stations. Most people don’t realise they exist because they don’t need them.

What I find frustrating is that those systems aren’t always in place on the cheapest form of transport – take buses for example. We definitely need ‘talking buses’ in the UK – they announce which stop you’re at, just like trains or trams or the Tube. It’s not rocket science, but it really helps. If I take the bus in the UK I have to ask the driver to tell me. If they forget, then you have to get off somewhere completely unfamiliar and rely on someone else helping you. It’s very frustrating.

Of course I get lost when I’m travelling – actually, it happens at least twice a week in the town where I live

As a general rule, within mainland Europe, people are very aware of people with disabilities. When I check into a hotel, the receptionist sees my cane and usually offers me assistance. I will generally ask a receptionist to show me where my room is when I check in, but after that I can find it on my own.

Getting around the room itself isn’t a problem. Much more difficult is getting a buffet breakfast in the morning. I’m not safe to carry hot food and drink around my own house without spilling stuff, so in a place I don’t know and with lots of other people around it’s not easy at all.

When I’m travelling with Traveleyes, I think there are lots of people who would want to ask our group questions, but they feel they can’t. But when you go to somewhere like India or China, they don’t have those kinds of boundaries. You get lots of people coming up to you, asking who you are and what you’re doing.

Liam has travelled to Malta, China, Jamaica (pictured) and Peru, as well as all over Europe independently

Some people really go the extra mile. In Peru, we went to a pre-colonial history museum, and they got the exhibits out for us to hold. It really brought it to life for us.

Of course I get lost and need help when I’m travelling – actually, it happens at least twice a week in the town where I live. As a completely blind person, I know sometimes I can be half a metre away from the thing or place I’m looking for, but I’m not going to find it because I’m not touching it. And that’s that.

I do appreciate it when people come up to me on the street and ask me if I need any help – but only if it’s done in the right way. So many people grab my arm or my shoulder and think that’s OK but it’s not. You don’t know who they are or what their intentions are. People don’t mean it to be unsettling, but it is.

My most useful tool for getting around is the general public – without them, I’d be completely lost. I’d probably be lost right now, in fact.

Interview by Hazel Plush