Donald Trump supporters call for Budweiser boycott following pro-immigration Super Bowl advert
Donald Trump supporters call for Budweiser boycott following pro-immigration Super Bowl advert
Following Donald Trump ’s executive order stopping persons from seven predominantly-Muslim countries from entering the United States, tensions are high around the world. Extraordinarily, Budweiser released one of the most perfectly-timed adverts in recent memory: a one-minute clip telling the tale of co-founder Adolphus Busch’s travels to America. Titled “Born the Hard Way,” the incredible looking 60-second clip focusses on the German man’s journey in 1857, with people telling him “You’re not wanted here, go back home!” after landing on American soil. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  After settling in St. Louis, Busch meets Budweiser co-founder Eberhard Anheuser, and together they form Anheuser-Busch who produce Budweiser. “This commercial shows the start of Budweiser’s journey,” Anheuser-Busch’s vice president, Ricardo Marques, said in a statement. “And while it is set in the 1800’s, it’s a story we believe will resonate with today’s entrepreneurial generation — those who continue strive for their dreams.” Considering the lavishly produced advert would have taken months to film and prepare, it’s remarkable how - only one day after Trump’s contentious executive order - the advert was released. Some Trump supporters have taken the advert to be a jibe against their President, one conservative ‘news’ organisation calling the advert ‘DISGUSTING,’ saying it ‘bashes’ Trump. But, as that headline continues, ‘they’re paying for it BIG TIME’ as members of their community have started the hashtag #BoycottBudweiser. Way to go @Budweiser you've managed to piss off middle America. You know, the people who used to drink your beer. #BoycottBudweiser Hey Budweiser AMERICA COULD GIVE 2 SHITS ABOUT YOUR POLITICAL OPINION- EPIC mistake ! #boycottbudweiser #BOYCOTT  @Budweiser . Political ads have no place being aired during #Superbowl  #Americans want to protect our country! #BoycottBudweiser  pic.twitter.com/TT9OvWMIE7 @budlight No thanks... it's time to #BoycottBudweiser . We don't need your beer, your opinions, and your illegal immigrants. #boycottbudweiser Lets get this trending Patriots. BUDWEISER SUCKS pic.twitter.com/L2rT4dCXaE @Budweiser  @EileenRae82 ▪️Not American owned-Owned by European company & getting involved in our politics? #BoycottBudweiser  #BoycottNFL  Another publication claims stocks for Anheuser Busch Inbev have ‘plummeted’, as ADR fell 0.22% that day. Today, however, stocks are ‘rebounding’ with an increase of 0.13%. Figures from the last week on Anheuser Busch Inbev stocks have actually been remarkably stable over the last week. Go figure. More about: Donald Trump Budweiser Immigration Comments

Following Donald Trump’s executive order stopping persons from seven predominantly-Muslim countries from entering the United States, tensions are high around the world.

Extraordinarily, Budweiser released one of the most perfectly-timed adverts in recent memory: a one-minute clip telling the tale of co-founder Adolphus Busch’s travels to America.

Titled “Born the Hard Way,” the incredible looking 60-second clip focusses on the German man’s journey in 1857, with people telling him “You’re not wanted here, go back home!” after landing on American soil.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

After settling in St. Louis, Busch meets Budweiser co-founder Eberhard Anheuser, and together they form Anheuser-Busch who produce Budweiser.

“This commercial shows the start of Budweiser’s journey,” Anheuser-Busch’s vice president, Ricardo Marques, said in a statement. “And while it is set in the 1800’s, it’s a story we believe will resonate with today’s entrepreneurial generation — those who continue strive for their dreams.”

Considering the lavishly produced advert would have taken months to film and prepare, it’s remarkable how - only one day after Trump’s contentious executive order - the advert was released.

Some Trump supporters have taken the advert to be a jibe against their President, one conservative ‘news’ organisation calling the advert ‘DISGUSTING,’ saying it ‘bashes’ Trump.

But, as that headline continues, ‘they’re paying for it BIG TIME’ as members of their community have started the hashtag #BoycottBudweiser.

Another publication claims stocks for Anheuser Busch Inbev have ‘plummeted’, as ADR fell 0.22% that day. Today, however, stocks are ‘rebounding’ with an increase of 0.13%.

Figures from the last week on Anheuser Busch Inbev stocks have actually been remarkably stable over the last week. Go figure.