Wall Street Surges Anew As Donald Trump Vows To Dismantle Dodd Frank
Wall Street Surges Anew As Donald Trump Vows To Dismantle Dodd Frank
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Antoine Gara       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Bank stocks surged when President Donald Trump won the election, gaining about 25% in the weeks after Nov. 8 as investors prepared for his agenda of deregulation. Now, as Trump completes his second week in the White House and fulfills his promise of a dramatic regulatory rollback , Wall Street stocks are surging once more. The Financial Sector Select SPDR rose nearly 2% in early trading as President Trump signed an executive order calling for the U.S. Treasury to roll back the Dodd Frank Act, a financial reform law forged by the administration of President Barack Obama in response to the 2008 crisis. Trump's executive order likely spells the end to a sweeping agenda of oversight and will re-open profitable business lines for major Wall Street investment banks. It also should bolster the mammoth trading businesses of America's largest banks. Morgan Stanley surged 5.4%, while JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs were up 4%, within reach of new record highs. Bank of America and and Citigroup shares rose more than 2%. WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 23: Director of the National Economic Council Gary Cohn (L). (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) Trump's executive order will mandate sweeping changes to current law and, if successful, could eventually lead to a replacement of Dodd Frank. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Trump's White House National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn characterized the order as a "table setter for a bunch of stuff that is coming." “We have the best, most highly capitalized banks in the world, and we should use that to our competitive advantage,” said Cohn. “But on the flip side, we also have the most highly regulated, overburdened banks in the world,” he added. The biggest initial focus is likely to surround the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which Cohn said had not succeeded in building a system to resolve a failing bank without either government aid, or posing a risk to the financial system writ large. Additionally, the Trump administration will take aim at the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, an agency dedicated to guarding against abusive or misleading retail financial products. Other areas of rollback will surround the Volcker Rule, a mandate named after former Federal Reserve chair Paul Volcker, which restricted banks from proprietary trading and limited their ability to make hedge fund and private equity investments. Trump's Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, another former Goldman partner, has said he would look to amend the rule. While aimed at limiting risk on Wall Street, especially in the opaque and leveraged areas of capital markets that made the credit crisis so violent, the Volcker Rule led to enormous backlash. Investors and bank chieftains complained that it never truly defined the difference between proprietary trading and market making, where trading firms hold out bids and offers across financial markets and hold short term inventories of assets to accommodate transactions. As a consequence, many banks simply stepped back from making markets, creating illiquidity that investors believe has exacerbated price swings, particularly in less liquid assets like junk bonds and leveraged loans. Going back to old trading standards will likely gin the operations of America's largest banks such as Cohn's former employer Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup. Change to Dodd Frank won't just impact the highest rungs of finance. Presently, banks exceeding $10 billion in assets are subjected to increased oversight, and those with $50 billion in assets can be deemed a systemically important financial institution and put under exams administered by the Federal Reserve such as stress tests. Relief from this oversight might have a potent impact on Main Street because it would dramatically reduce overhead costs for small and mid-sized lenders, potentially giving them greater financial flexibility to make small business and consumer loans. The KBW regional bank index surged 2% in early trading, adding to three-month gains of nearly 30%. Trump's executive order will also unwind a mandate imposed by the Department of Labor called the fiduciary rule, which seeks to hold investment advisers to a standard of acting in their clients best interests. This rule, set to go in effect in April, will be repealed, Cohn said, because it will limit consumer choice. He likened the choice to food: Unhealthy delicacies can lower one's life, but people still choose to indulge. Mutual fund firms T. Rowe Price, Legg Mason, Waddell & Reed rose between 1.5% and 3% in afternoon trading. Franklin Resources, Eaton Vance and Artisan Partners were also rising in. Annuities firms Voya Financial and Athene Holdings were also moving higher by over 2%. The Financial Planning Coalition said it "strongly opposes the action taken today by President Trump to halt the Department of Labor’s Final Fiduciary Rule that will protect millions of Americans saving for retirement," in an emailed statement. Active managers have spent hundreds of millions of dollars preparing for the fiduciary rule, and many have expected the rule to exacerbate fund flows into passive index products. Relief may lower firms' overhead, and may allow investment advisers to continue advocating active investment products despite widespread underperformance. However, some fund firms are likely abide by some aspects of the DoL rule, even if it is repealed. "The Coalition applauds those firms and individuals who have already acknowledged the rule’s benefit to consumers and taken action to comply with the DOL Fiduciary Rule. Already we are seeing benefits for retirement savers in the form of lower fees, more options and firms developing additional ways to serve middle-income Americans," the CFB Board. Discount electronic brokerages such as TD Ameritrade, E*Trade and Charles Schwab all rose between 1% and 3%. BlackRock, a $5 trillion asset manager predominantly focused on passive ETFs, was also up. It is expected that as part of its deregulatory push, the Trump administration will seek to replace CFPB head Richard Cordray, in a first step towards neutralizing the regulatory agency. Such a move would mitigate the threat of litigation and heavy scrutiny on complex financial products sold to ordinary investors and borrowers. The financial sector rally pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average up over 100 points, within striking distance of 20,000. Why 2017 Will Be The Best Year In Wall Street History     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Bank stocks surged when President Donald Trump won the election, gaining about 25% in the weeks after Nov. 8 as investors prepared for his agenda of deregulation. Now, as Trump completes his second week in the White House and fulfills his promise of a dramatic regulatory rollback, Wall Street stocks are surging once more.

The Financial Sector Select SPDR rose nearly 2% in early trading as President Trump signed an executive order calling for the U.S. Treasury to roll back the Dodd Frank Act, a financial reform law forged by the administration of President Barack Obama in response to the 2008 crisis.

Trump's executive order likely spells the end to a sweeping agenda of oversight and will re-open profitable business lines for major Wall Street investment banks. It also should bolster the mammoth trading businesses of America's largest banks.

Morgan Stanley surged 5.4%, while JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs were up 4%, within reach of new record highs. Bank of America and and Citigroup shares rose more than 2%.

Trump's executive order will mandate sweeping changes to current law and, if successful, could eventually lead to a replacement of Dodd Frank. "Today we are signing core principles for regulating the United States financial system," Trump said when signing the order. Earlier in the day Trump said he expected "to be cutting a lot out of Dodd Frank."

In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Trump's White House National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn characterized the order as a "table setter for a bunch of stuff that is coming."

“We have the best, most highly capitalized banks in the world, and we should use that to our competitive advantage,” said Cohn. “But on the flip side, we also have the most highly regulated, overburdened banks in the world,” he added.

The biggest initial focus is likely to surround the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which Cohn said had not succeeded in building a system to resolve a failing bank without either government aid, or posing a risk to the financial system writ large. Additionally, the Trump administration will take aim at the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, an agency dedicated to guarding against abusive or misleading retail financial products.

Other areas of rollback will surround the Volcker Rule, a mandate named after former Federal Reserve chair Paul Volcker, which restricted banks from proprietary trading and limited their ability to make hedge fund and private equity investments. Trump's Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, another former Goldman partner, has said he would look to amend the rule.

While aimed at limiting risk on Wall Street, especially in the opaque and leveraged areas of capital markets that made the credit crisis so violent, the Volcker Rule led to enormous backlash.

Investors and bank chieftains complained that it never truly defined the difference between proprietary trading and market making, where trading firms hold out bids and offers across financial markets and hold short term inventories of assets to accommodate transactions. As a consequence, many banks simply stepped back from making markets, creating illiquidity that investors believe has exacerbated price swings, particularly in less liquid assets like junk bonds and leveraged loans.

Going back to old trading standards will likely gin the operations of America's largest banks such as Cohn's former employer Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup.

The Regional Bank Rally

Change to Dodd Frank won't just impact the highest rungs of finance.

Presently, banks exceeding $10 billion in assets are subjected to increased oversight, and those with $50 billion in assets can be deemed a systemically important financial institution and put under exams administered by the Federal Reserve such as stress tests.

Relief from this oversight might have a potent impact on Main Street because it would dramatically reduce overhead costs for small and mid-sized lenders, potentially giving them greater financial flexibility to make small business and consumer loans.

The KBW regional bank index surged 2% in early trading, adding to three-month gains of nearly 30%.

Taste For Exotic Funds Can Kill

Trump's executive order will also unwind a mandate imposed by the Department of Labor called the fiduciary rule, which seeks to hold investment advisers to a standard of acting in their clients best interests. This rule, set to go in effect in April, will be repealed, Cohn said, because it will limit consumer choice. He likened the choice to food: Unhealthy delicacies can lower one's life, but people still choose to indulge.

Mutual fund firms T. Rowe Price, Legg Mason, Waddell & Reed rose between 1.5% and 3% in afternoon trading. Franklin Resources, Eaton Vance and Artisan Partners were also rising in. Annuities firms Voya Financial and Athene Holdings were also moving higher by over 2%.

The Financial Planning Coalition said it "strongly opposes the action taken today by President Trump to halt the Department of Labor’s Final Fiduciary Rule that will protect millions of Americans saving for retirement," in an emailed statement.

Active managers have spent hundreds of millions of dollars preparing for the fiduciary rule, and many have expected the rule to exacerbate fund flows into passive index products. Relief may lower firms' overhead, and may allow investment advisers to continue advocating active investment products despite widespread underperformance. However, some fund firms are likely abide by some aspects of the DoL rule, even if it is repealed.

"The Coalition applauds those firms and individuals who have already acknowledged the rule’s benefit to consumers and taken action to comply with the DOL Fiduciary Rule. Already we are seeing benefits for retirement savers in the form of lower fees, more options and firms developing additional ways to serve middle-income Americans," the CFB Board.

Discount electronic brokerages such as TD Ameritrade, E*Trade and Charles Schwab all rose between 1% and 3%. BlackRock, a $5 trillion asset manager predominantly focused on passive ETFs, was also up.

It is expected that as part of its deregulatory push, the Trump administration will seek to replace CFPB head Richard Cordray, in a first step towards neutralizing the regulatory agency. Such a move would mitigate the threat of litigation and heavy scrutiny on complex financial products sold to ordinary investors and borrowers.

The financial sector rally pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average up over 100 points, within striking distance of 20,000.

Read More: Why 2017 Will Be The Best Year In Wall Street History