Paco Tapas, Bristol: ‘Spanish food from perfectionists’ – restaurant review | Marina O’Loughlin

he restaurant world was rocked by the death of Jonray Sanchez-Iglesias in 2015 , aged only 32. The cancer that took him robbed us of a star, self-taught and burning with talent. He didn’t live to see to fruition plans to move and transform his family’s Michelin-starred Casamia, and to create another two, entirely different restaurants. I can’t imagine what that must feel like for Peter, his brother, partner and co-chef, but on the strength of this little Bristol tapas bar it would appear to have fired him up – fuelled not only by his own ambition, but by his late brother’s, too. In a week during which I suffered a significant family death, I’m drawn to this small empire. The three restaurants are perched in a row along the waterside setting of Bristol’s supremely handsome former general hospital. (So maybe I did find myself in the property sales office after a few palo cortados – what of it?) Walk past the sleek new Casamia , their permanently rammed pizzeria, Pi Shop , and step over Paco Tapas ’ threshold into a little slice of Andalucía: dark walls, glossy bull coat-hooks, sherry barrels, beautiful patterned tiles and entirely open kitchen. There’s a solitary, rather mournful oil painting, a refugee from the original Casamia’s pizza-and-pasta days, and a lustworthy, duck-egg-blue meat slicer. Fragrant wood smoke hangs in the air from a serious-looking grill, complete with Etxebarri -style wheels and gears above smouldering birch wood. Brown paper menus come scrawled with the day’s specials, Spanish wines, hand-picked (and excellent) sherries and the now mandatory vast gin and tonics. It could do with a few more dangling jamón legs for the full atmosphere, but it still feels real: I believe it wholeheartedly. Food is perfectly Spanish, too, even if it often uses lush West Country produce. But it’s Spanish from perfectionists: the proletarian patatas bravas, for instance, are here elevated to aristocracy, the potatoes double-fried until hypnotically crisp, their chilli sauce sweet and ripe from good tomato, the allioli yellow with good egg yolks and pugnacious with garlic. Or cazón en adobo: meaty dogfish in the lightest suggestion of batter, just touched with herbs and the sprightliness of vinegar, which whisks me straight to a summer’s day in Sanlúcar de Barrameda. Cocido Andaluz comes rammed with chunks of various porky bits and pieces, crumbly, ferrous morcilla, chickpeas, potatoes, peppers, tomatoes and a resonant hit of smoked paprika. It’s a fine thing, but I reckon it would be ambrosial the day after tomorrow. Calçots, those recherché Catalan alliums, come beautifully blackened from the grill with the best romesco I’ve ever tasted, crunchy with hazelnuts and almond and blazing with roast peppers. I’m struggling to find fault. Perhaps there’s a tendency to over-refinement: tomatoes cut Rizla-thin for a fine, oily, salty salad; Cornish squid that might have benefited from more of the grill’s smoky embrace. Pricing is curious: that modish aged Galician steak weighs in at £92 for 875g (in London’s Lurra , it’s currently £65 for 800g), while prized, sweet-nutty Ibérico de bellota “Cinco Jotas” arrives expertly almost-shaved, but at £15 there’s only enough to make a meat dress for Tinkerbell. And I don’t expect croquetas at £3.25 to provide a single fried ham and béchamel torpedo in glorious isolation. (Turns out the menu says “each”; naive of me to have missed that.) Crab, ditto – though curiously, like a Brit fish cake, it’s made with potato. Both are exquisite, but, you know, their solitary nature makes me querulous. There are carabineros – vast, almost lobster-sized red Spanish prawns – at £22 each, but then I remember paying €80 for three in Sanlúcar (I nearly fainted), so fair enough. Yet a big portion of clams, garlicky and fragrant with sherry, costs a fiver, and a generous glass of rare, luscious palo cortado comes in at £4, so I’ll say swings and roundabouts and shut the hell up. Paco Tapas feels like a wholly successful return to the Sanchez-Iglesias’ Spanish roots. The brothers’ somewhat eccentric papá, the eponymous Paco who is now in his 70s, still works front-of-house in the Casamia mother ship next door. I’m from Glasgow, and we don’t do sentimental when sober, so please bear with me just this once. This little restaurant is all about family and, as death never ceases to remind us, family is a precious, precious thing.  3a The General, Lower Guinea Street, Bristol, 0117 925 7021. Open lunch, Fri-Sun, noon-2pm (5pm Sun), dinner Weds-Sat, 5pm-late. About £40 a head plus drinks and service. 8/10 8/10 6/10 Topics  Spanish food and drink   Restaurants   Food & drink

The restaurant world was rocked by the death of Jonray Sanchez-Iglesias in 2015, aged only 32. The cancer that took him robbed us of a star, self-taught and burning with talent. He didn’t live to see to fruition plans to move and transform his family’s Michelin-starred Casamia, and to create another two, entirely different restaurants. I can’t imagine what that must feel like for Peter, his brother, partner and co-chef, but on the strength of this little Bristol tapas bar it would appear to have fired him up – fuelled not only by his own ambition, but by his late brother’s, too.

In a week during which I suffered a significant family death, I’m drawn to this small empire. The three restaurants are perched in a row along the waterside setting of Bristol’s supremely handsome former general hospital. (So maybe I did find myself in the property sales office after a few palo cortados – what of it?) Walk past the sleek new Casamia, their permanently rammed pizzeria, Pi Shop, and step over Paco Tapas’ threshold into a little slice of Andalucía: dark walls, glossy bull coat-hooks, sherry barrels, beautiful patterned tiles and entirely open kitchen. There’s a solitary, rather mournful oil painting, a refugee from the original Casamia’s pizza-and-pasta days, and a lustworthy, duck-egg-blue meat slicer. Fragrant wood smoke hangs in the air from a serious-looking grill, complete with Etxebarri-style wheels and gears above smouldering birch wood. Brown paper menus come scrawled with the day’s specials, Spanish wines, hand-picked (and excellent) sherries and the now mandatory vast gin and tonics. It could do with a few more dangling jamón legs for the full atmosphere, but it still feels real: I believe it wholeheartedly.

Food is perfectly Spanish, too, even if it often uses lush West Country produce. But it’s Spanish from perfectionists: the proletarian patatas bravas, for instance, are here elevated to aristocracy, the potatoes double-fried until hypnotically crisp, their chilli sauce sweet and ripe from good tomato, the allioli yellow with good egg yolks and pugnacious with garlic. Or cazón en adobo: meaty dogfish in the lightest suggestion of batter, just touched with herbs and the sprightliness of vinegar, which whisks me straight to a summer’s day in Sanlúcar de Barrameda. Cocido Andaluz comes rammed with chunks of various porky bits and pieces, crumbly, ferrous morcilla, chickpeas, potatoes, peppers, tomatoes and a resonant hit of smoked paprika. It’s a fine thing, but I reckon it would be ambrosial the day after tomorrow. Calçots, those recherché Catalan alliums, come beautifully blackened from the grill with the best romesco I’ve ever tasted, crunchy with hazelnuts and almond and blazing with roast peppers.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Joel Redman for the Guardian

I’m struggling to find fault. Perhaps there’s a tendency to over-refinement: tomatoes cut Rizla-thin for a fine, oily, salty salad; Cornish squid that might have benefited from more of the grill’s smoky embrace. Pricing is curious: that modish aged Galician steak weighs in at £92 for 875g (in London’s Lurra, it’s currently £65 for 800g), while prized, sweet-nutty Ibérico de bellota “Cinco Jotas” arrives expertly almost-shaved, but at £15 there’s only enough to make a meat dress for Tinkerbell. And I don’t expect croquetas at £3.25 to provide a single fried ham and béchamel torpedo in glorious isolation. (Turns out the menu says “each”; naive of me to have missed that.) Crab, ditto – though curiously, like a Brit fish cake, it’s made with potato. Both are exquisite, but, you know, their solitary nature makes me querulous. There are carabineros – vast, almost lobster-sized red Spanish prawns – at £22 each, but then I remember paying €80 for three in Sanlúcar (I nearly fainted), so fair enough. Yet a big portion of clams, garlicky and fragrant with sherry, costs a fiver, and a generous glass of rare, luscious palo cortado comes in at £4, so I’ll say swings and roundabouts and shut the hell up.

The Cauldron, Bristol: ‘Mad: a bit. Delicious: absolutely’ – restaurant review | Marina O’Loughlin Read more

Paco Tapas feels like a wholly successful return to the Sanchez-Iglesias’ Spanish roots. The brothers’ somewhat eccentric papá, the eponymous Paco who is now in his 70s, still works front-of-house in the Casamia mother ship next door. I’m from Glasgow, and we don’t do sentimental when sober, so please bear with me just this once. This little restaurant is all about family and, as death never ceases to remind us, family is a precious, precious thing.

• Paco Tapas 3a The General, Lower Guinea Street, Bristol, 0117 925 7021. Open lunch, Fri-Sun, noon-2pm (5pm Sun), dinner Weds-Sat, 5pm-late. About £40 a head plus drinks and service.

Food 8/10

Atmosphere 8/10

Value for money 6/10