As A Global Citizen, Donald Trump’s Immigrant Ban Has Deeply Affected Me, Says Priyanka Chopra
As A Global Citizen, Donald Trump’s Immigrant Ban Has Deeply Affected Me, Says Priyanka Chopra
As A Global Citizen, Donald Trump’s Immigrant Ban Has Deeply Affected Me, Says Priyanka Chopra Priyanka Chopra is not just our Desi Girl now. PC is a full-throttle global brand in herself. Be it her American show or , that is all set to hit the silver screen in May, PC's journey as an entertainer has just seen ups. My beautiful team. My strength and my spine.. @natashapal @mrinster @danasupnick @anjula_acharia @chanchal_dsouza @jenn_din #GeetanjaliMaster #foreverychild @unicef A photo posted by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Dec 12, 2016 at 9:47pm PST   PC was recently appointed as a global UNICEF ambassador and this one was a well-deserved feat for her. PC, who was really fond of Obama was really sad when Donald Trump replaced him as the next president of the US. And now that Trump announced his decision of putting a 90-day ban on immigrants, PC as a global citizen seems really upset. The call me mellow yellow... @byrdiebeauty 💛 A photo posted by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Nov 7, 2016 at 6:38am PST   Priyanka Chopra took to her Linkedin account to express her displeasure on the same. In a hard-hitting post against the ban, she wrote, Magical visit at Kamakhya temple in Guwahati... something so powerful in belief....... #DiscoveringAssam A photo posted by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Dec 24, 2016 at 12:04am PST

Priyanka Chopra is not just our Desi Girl now. PC is a full-throttle global brand in herself. Be it her American show Quantico or Baywatch, that is all set to hit the silver screen in May, PC's journey as an entertainer has just seen ups.

PC was recently appointed as a global UNICEF ambassador and this one was a well-deserved feat for her. PC, who was really fond of Obama was really sad when Donald Trump replaced him as the next president of the US. And now that Trump announced his decision of putting a 90-day ban on immigrants, PC as a global citizen seems really upset.

The call me mellow yellow... @byrdiebeauty 💛 A photo posted by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Nov 7, 2016 at 6:38am PST

Priyanka Chopra took to her Linkedin account to express her displeasure on the same. In a hard-hitting post against the ban, she wrote,

"The images have been adding up over the weekend. A young boy at an airport desperately clinging to his mother with fear in his eyes after being detained for hours at Dulles International airport in Washington DC, unable to fathom the chaos of being stopped entry into what he knew as his home.

Kristeligt Dagblad

The US has always acknowledged that it is a country built by immigrants. The anger, frustration, and helplessness that followed US State Department’s 90-day ban of people from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen from entering the US is justified.

As a global citizen, this has deeply affected me.

Magical visit at Kamakhya temple in Guwahati... something so powerful in belief....... #DiscoveringAssam A photo posted by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Dec 24, 2016 at 12:04am PST

Getting ready to post this blog, I was grounded by the news. All of the ‘banned’ countries are places where a lot of UNICEF work is going on, where children are suffering the most. What can I add that people across professions and age groups have not already said? But adding your voice will definitely make a difference.

And make a difference we must. Please join me in making our voice stronger so that globally, our children are not discriminated against on the basis of their religion and do not have to bear the brunt of a political witch hunt.”