Video Shared By Pentagon to Tout Success of Deadly Yemen Raid Is Actually 10 Years Old
Video Shared By Pentagon to Tout Success of Deadly Yemen Raid Is Actually 10 Years Old
Video allegedly obtained during the deadly U.S. raid in Yemen last week, the first military operation under Trump 's administration, was released by the Pentagon Friday. There's just one problem with the video in question: It's 10 years old, according to  . Just hours after posting a link to the footage on the Defense Video Imagery Distribution System website, the clips were removed. "Courses for Destroying the Cross" first appeared online back in 2007. The video, less than two minutes long, shows an unidentified man wearing a white robe and black mask discussing bomb-making techniques. A defense official told  's Nancy A. Youssef the raid on Jan. 29 was meant as an al Qaeda intelligence gathering effort, not an attempt at preventing "a specific future attack." A Pentagon said the video was a mere “sampling” of what was captured. The Trump team has suggested the Navy SEAL raid, which resulted in the death of Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens and multiple civilians, had been extensively planned under Obama's administration. "The raid had been planned several months and was given full consideration by the previous administration," a defense official told the Thursday. Former Obama security official Colin Kahl, however, has repeatedly refuted this: Some Yemen facts: 1/DoD worked up GENERAL proposal for OVERALL set of expanded authorities for these types of raids at end of Obama admin 2/The broad package was discussed in the interagency in the closing weeks of the Obama term. This particular raid was NOT discussed. 3/Moreover no recommendation was made other than a recommendation to provide the next Administration with the necessary information. 4/Idea was for next team to run a deliberative process to assess risks. 5/And, critically, Obama made no decisions on this before leaving office, believing it represented escalation of U.S. involvement in Yemen 6/And therefore should not be something he decided a few days before leaving office. Obama thought the next team should take a careful look. 7/ And run a careful process. From what I've read and heard, however, team Trump didn't do a careful vetting of the overall proposal or raid 8/Instead, Trump apparently had dinner with Mattis/Dunford and greenlit the op. I've heard there was a Deputies meeting the next day, but... Unless time works in the opposite direction, @PressSec has mansplaining to do on how Obama admin approved Yemen raid https://t.co/5dd6ZcNvwP "The videos released today are samples of a series of detailed, do-it-yourself lessons intended for aspiring terrorist bomb-makers and included an exhortation to use those techniques to attack the West," a statement from Central Command accompanying the video's release said. The Pentagon estimated the raid also left "14 militants" dead. But medics at the scene, according to a report from , estimated that as many as 30 people—including 10 women and children—had been killed.

Video allegedly obtained during the deadly U.S. raid in Yemen last week, the first military operation under Trump's administration, was released by the Pentagon Friday. There's just one problem with the video in question: It's 10 years old, according to BuzzFeed. Just hours after posting a link to the footage on the Defense Video Imagery Distribution System website, the clips were removed.

"Courses for Destroying the Cross" first appeared online back in 2007. The video, less than two minutes long, shows an unidentified man wearing a white robe and black mask discussing bomb-making techniques. A defense official told BuzzFeed's Nancy A. Youssef the raid on Jan. 29 was meant as an al Qaeda intelligence gathering effort, not an attempt at preventing "a specific future attack." A Pentagon said the video was a mere “sampling” of what was captured.

The Trump team has suggested the Navy SEAL raid, which resulted in the death of Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens and multiple civilians, had been extensively planned under Obama's administration. "The raid had been planned several months and was given full consideration by the previous administration," a defense official told the Washington Post Thursday.

Former Obama security official Colin Kahl, however, has repeatedly refuted this:

Some Yemen facts: 1/DoD worked up GENERAL proposal for OVERALL set of expanded authorities for these types of raids at end of Obama admin — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

2/The broad package was discussed in the interagency in the closing weeks of the Obama term. This particular raid was NOT discussed. — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

3/Moreover no recommendation was made other than a recommendation to provide the next Administration with the necessary information. — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

4/Idea was for next team to run a deliberative process to assess risks. — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

5/And, critically, Obama made no decisions on this before leaving office, believing it represented escalation of U.S. involvement in Yemen — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

6/And therefore should not be something he decided a few days before leaving office. Obama thought the next team should take a careful look. — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

7/ And run a careful process. From what I've read and heard, however, team Trump didn't do a careful vetting of the overall proposal or raid — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

8/Instead, Trump apparently had dinner with Mattis/Dunford and greenlit the op. I've heard there was a Deputies meeting the next day, but... — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 2, 2017

Unless time works in the opposite direction, @PressSec has mansplaining to do on how Obama admin approved Yemen raid https://t.co/5dd6ZcNvwP — Colin Kahl (@ColinKahl) February 3, 2017

"The videos released today are samples of a series of detailed, do-it-yourself lessons intended for aspiring terrorist bomb-makers and included an exhortation to use those techniques to attack the West," a statement from Central Command accompanying the video's release said. The Pentagon estimated the raid also left "14 militants" dead. But medics at the scene, according to a report from Reuters, estimated that as many as 30 people—including 10 women and children—had been killed.