The MVP All-Star Fund Launches With $100M To Get Pro Athletes Into Tech Unicorns
The MVP All-Star Fund Launches With $100M To Get Pro Athletes Into Tech Unicorns
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Konrad       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Rashaun Williams hard at work behind NBA players Steph Curry, Andre Iguodala and Lou Amundson. (Credit: MVP All-Star Fund) For every Snap Inc. going public, there’s a host of billion-dollar startups still private, content to grow without the scrutiny (and validation) of Wall Street. Now a new fund wants them to take on a different kind of investor: star entertainers and athletes. The fund is called the All-Star Fund, and its premise adds a celebrity gloss to what has already been an active market matching private investors with employees at the bigger tech companies. When employees at a unicorn tire of waiting for an acquisition or IPO or just find a pressing use for cash, they can sell their shares on the secondary market. Family offices, individuals and funds that don’t have the access of Silicon Valley’s top venture capital firms get their chance to buy into the tech community’s anointed leaders, assuming less risk than an early bet but hoping to make a windfall by getting in before an exit such as an IPO. Athletes and entertainment stars are increasingly no different. “It’s about getting exclusive access to the biggest companies in the Valley,” says Rashaun Williams, who is launching the All-Star Fund out of established secondary firm Manhattan Venture Partners. “We have a universe of the biggest names, and every month we’ll put out our watch list. They can get into them instantly.” At a size of at least $100 million, the All-Star Fund will invest in a series of baskets of 12 such billion-dollar companies for its clients. Athletes such as Elton Brand, Patrick Ewing and Dwight Howard are already participating, says Williams, with individuals putting in checks that can range from $100,000 to $1 million. Then Williams hopes to take that to institutional investors who will repackage opportunity to buy into the fund as vehicles for their own high net worth clients. Rashaun Williams plans to match unicorns with stars at the All-Star Fund. (Credit: MVP All-Star Fund) The majority of people in the All-Star Fund may end up less All Star selectee and more All Star fan. But Williams brings years of experience connecting tech and celebrity. Williams has been helping high profile individuals invest in unicorns for at least six years, he says, working with three dozen to get into hot companies such as Lyft and others with more question marks such as Jawbone. Williams also worked with Nasir “Nas” Jones on setting up his own VC firm, QueensBridge Venture Partners. That investment group, which Williams is no longer affiliated with, invested in companies including Casper, Dropbox, General Assembly, Tilt and Lyft. Outside linebacker Derrick Morgan recorded nine sacks for the Tennessee Titans during the 2016 season, his seventh in the National Football League. Like other athletes, Morgan and his team have plans to start their own micro-VC fund. Morgan has invested in a few startups before, he says. Recently the former 1 round draft pick has shifted focus more to tech-focused funds as a way to improve his deal flow and mitigate risk. Impressed by Williams’ track record, Morgan’s invested in the All-Star Fund. “It’s hard not to take notice of the value that some of these companies have amassed,” he says. Backing unicorns creates a more diverse portfolio, says Morgan—and frees up more time to work with entrepreneurs from communities underrepresented in tech . “A lot more of my time in the tech space focuses on bringing more inclusion and diversity to the startup ecosystem,” Morgan says. “You never know where the idea for the next Uber or Snapchat will come from.” Williams has gotten a boost so far from having his own two-time All Star in his camp in Brand, who has introduced him to friends such as super-agent David Falk. The one-time agent to Michael Jordan watched friends invest—and miss—Uber on its rise to a $62.5 billion valuation. Pro athletes see startups as a place to spread some of their earnings that’s also fun, he says. “One client asked me for his birthday to meet Elon Musk,” says Falk, who has personally invested in the fund. “It’s fun for them to meet the people behind these companies.” The All-Star Fund may find it hard to land in-form superstars, however, as celebrities such as Nas and recently Kobe Bryant have opted to launch their own funds . “Those funds are really about that particular celebrity,” Williams says. The gold standard for that model: actor Ashton Kutcher, who built a $250 million portfolio with partner Guy Oseary. Others prefer to focus on building their own apps, such as Steph Curry and Chris Paul . Michael Jordan turned down the chance to start his own fund years ago, Falk says. His advice to athletes is to leave it to the professionals. “There’s a lot of risk to a high profile celebrity if the fund doesn’t do well,” says Falk. “I’m not sure what the upside is versus the risk to you reputation.” With the All-Star Fund, it’s Williams’ name on the line. Williams says that with the support of Manhattan Venture Partners, those who bet on that will be just fine. “We’ve done $2 billion in secondary transactions in the past two years,” Williams says. “We have the access because we’ve been doing it for years. And we know who the buyers and sellers are.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

For every Snap Inc. going public, there’s a host of billion-dollar startups still private, content to grow without the scrutiny (and validation) of Wall Street. Now a new fund wants them to take on a different kind of investor: star entertainers and athletes.

The fund is called the All-Star Fund, and its premise adds a celebrity gloss to what has already been an active market matching private investors with employees at the bigger tech companies.

When employees at a unicorn tire of waiting for an acquisition or IPO or just find a pressing use for cash, they can sell their shares on the secondary market. Family offices, individuals and funds that don’t have the access of Silicon Valley’s top venture capital firms get their chance to buy into the tech community’s anointed leaders, assuming less risk than an early bet but hoping to make a windfall by getting in before an exit such as an IPO. Athletes and entertainment stars are increasingly no different.

“It’s about getting exclusive access to the biggest companies in the Valley,” says Rashaun Williams, who is launching the All-Star Fund out of established secondary firm Manhattan Venture Partners. “We have a universe of the biggest names, and every month we’ll put out our watch list. They can get into them instantly.”

At a size of at least $100 million, the All-Star Fund will invest in a series of baskets of 12 such billion-dollar companies for its clients. Athletes such as Elton Brand, Patrick Ewing and Dwight Howard are already participating, says Williams, with individuals putting in checks that can range from $100,000 to $1 million. Then Williams hopes to take that to institutional investors who will repackage opportunity to buy into the fund as vehicles for their own high net worth clients.

The majority of people in the All-Star Fund may end up less All Star selectee and more All Star fan. But Williams brings years of experience connecting tech and celebrity. Williams has been helping high profile individuals invest in unicorns for at least six years, he says, working with three dozen to get into hot companies such as Lyft and others with more question marks such as Jawbone. Williams also worked with Nasir “Nas” Jones on setting up his own VC firm, QueensBridge Venture Partners. That investment group, which Williams is no longer affiliated with, invested in companies including Casper, Dropbox, General Assembly, Tilt and Lyft.

Outside linebacker Derrick Morgan recorded nine sacks for the Tennessee Titans during the 2016 season, his seventh in the National Football League. Like other athletes, Morgan and his team have plans to start their own micro-VC fund. Morgan has invested in a few startups before, he says. Recently the former 1st round draft pick has shifted focus more to tech-focused funds as a way to improve his deal flow and mitigate risk.

Impressed by Williams’ track record, Morgan’s invested in the All-Star Fund. “It’s hard not to take notice of the value that some of these companies have amassed,” he says. Backing unicorns creates a more diverse portfolio, says Morgan—and frees up more time to work with entrepreneurs from communities underrepresented in tech. “A lot more of my time in the tech space focuses on bringing more inclusion and diversity to the startup ecosystem,” Morgan says. “You never know where the idea for the next Uber or Snapchat will come from.”

Williams has gotten a boost so far from having his own two-time All Star in his camp in Brand, who has introduced him to friends such as super-agent David Falk. The one-time agent to Michael Jordan watched friends invest—and miss—Uber on its rise to a $62.5 billion valuation. Pro athletes see startups as a place to spread some of their earnings that’s also fun, he says. “One client asked me for his birthday to meet Elon Musk,” says Falk, who has personally invested in the fund. “It’s fun for them to meet the people behind these companies.”

The All-Star Fund may find it hard to land in-form superstars, however, as celebrities such as Nas and recently Kobe Bryant have opted to launch their own funds. “Those funds are really about that particular celebrity,” Williams says. The gold standard for that model: actor Ashton Kutcher, who built a $250 million portfolio with partner Guy Oseary. Others prefer to focus on building their own apps, such as Steph Curry and Chris Paul.

Michael Jordan turned down the chance to start his own fund years ago, Falk says. His advice to athletes is to leave it to the professionals. “There’s a lot of risk to a high profile celebrity if the fund doesn’t do well,” says Falk. “I’m not sure what the upside is versus the risk to you reputation.”

With the All-Star Fund, it’s Williams’ name on the line. Williams says that with the support of Manhattan Venture Partners, those who bet on that will be just fine. “We’ve done $2 billion in secondary transactions in the past two years,” Williams says. “We have the access because we’ve been doing it for years. And we know who the buyers and sellers are.”

Follow Alex on Forbes, Twitter and Facebook for more coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital.