Tree changers swapping city life for a regional and rural lifestyle



Tree changers swapping city life for a regional and rural lifestyle

Updated

Ever wondered what it would be like to swap the rat race for a quieter country life?

These people did just that for a variety of reasons — for lifestyle, to raise families, or to find more affordable housing.

Whatever the reason, they all experienced life at a vastly different pace.

Meet our tree changers.

This article includes an interactive component which is not supported on this platform. For the full interactive experience in this article, you will need a modern web browser with JavaScript enabled. Find out more about browser support at ABC News Online.

Outback Australia is full of people wanting a tree change, especially those in the heart of the country.

Dev Bhutani is a lawyer from Sydney who moved to Alice Springs for work.

"I thought it was going to be really difficult and isolating. But then I thought I'd grit my teeth and do it, and it's been really rewarding and fantastic," he said.

Mr Bhutani said living in the bush definitely had its perks.

"Nothing is more than a two-minute car ride away, which is really odd, and you can ride your bike everywhere," he said.

"The time people have for each other is a lot more noticeable here than in the city."

But Mr Bhutani said the best part about living in outback Australia was the landscape and outdoors.

"I like to go to waterholes and see different places. I've done a lot of road trips, taken my car places it probably shouldn't have gone, gotten bogged a few times," he said.

"It's so beautiful. It's really vivid actually, the colour difference I always notice — between the deepest red and brightest blue — and it's what strikes me every single time."

Silvano Giordano used to work as a printer in Melbourne and now lives and works in the western desert region in Western Australia.

For six years, Mr Giordano has been the director at Wilurarra Creative, an art program based in Warburton, 1,500 kilometres from Perth, in the Ngaanyatjarra Lands.

"Three months before I moved out here, if you had told me that that's what I was going to do I would have just laughed at that," he said.

Before he changed his job and his life, Mr Giordano was a gluten-free vegetarian, living and working in inner Melbourne.

"I really felt like I needed to use my brain for something, I was looking for something that was outside the life that I had, but I didn't really know what that was," he said.

So after eight years working the same job, he quit and went to volunteer with two friends who were running Wilurarra at the time.

He came for two weeks and stayed for two months.

Within six months his friends had left and Mr Giordano ended up taking over the program.

Wilurarra Creative runs a photography and music studio, manages local musicians, has a social change hair salon, and recently launched a fashion magazine.

"It's a real experience. It's challenging and interesting," Mr Giordano said.

"It's like being in a completely different, new environment, which is in Australia, but where I live Ngaanyatjarra is the first language of most people and English is second so it is like being in a different country in that sense."

In the Lands, the pace of living is slower. Life revolves around family, and traditional customs and practices are a normal part of life.

"Once I wound down from my high city pace, I kind of realised that the pace of life out here, and the way of working, really works for me," Mr Giordano said.

In Warburton there is a store for food and other supplies and a service station on the gravel highway — possibly an inner-city Melbournian's nightmare.

"Out here you get what you're given," he said.

"If it's not at the store, it doesn't exist here."

Mr Giordano said living and working in Warburton had completely changed his view of the world, he had better perspective on what really matters in life.

"Out here there's a lot of hardship and poverty as well as lot of joy and real positive creativity," he said.

"Everything is a bit harsher, it's a bit more life and death."

For brothers Daniel and Graham Pasternak, tropical north Queensland is a big change from their Canadian home town of Medicine Hat in Alberta.

Both brothers moved to the sunshine state to complete four years of study at the University of Queensland and further their medical careers.

Graham was a medical intern last year and is now a junior house doctor at the Mackay Hospital and Health Service.

He said they both wanted to come to Mackay because it was similar to their hometown.

"Brisbane's a bit big for someone who's come from a town of about 150,000 people, and also I find Canadians are quite similar to Queenslanders — especially people from Mackay," he said.

"It's easy to develop a therapeutic relationship inside the hospital and develop friendships outside the hospital with people who aren't patients."

He said he would love to stay in the region and set up his own general practice.

"My dream actually would be to settle in Mackay as a family doctor," he said.

"It's something I'm considering because I feel at home here and people in the community have been so welcoming."

His older brother Daniel is one of 43 interns at the hospital this year.

He said a big draw card to train in north Queensland was the new facilities and opportunities to get more hands-on experience.

"I wanted to come to Mackay because it has excellent training opportunities and I think as a junior doctor you kind of get lost in the numbers in those bigger centres," he said.

"Here you have the opportunity to get more involved in procedures and you get that patient-care interaction, and that's fantastic."

Dale Bray swapped the boardrooms of the music industry in the United States for the paddocks of Queensland's Granite Belt four years ago.

He said the biggest culture shock was for his children, but they have come to embrace country life.

"They were kids who, at one period of time, would jump on the business' private plane and we'd go to Disneyworld for the weekend," he said.

"Even though Stanthorpe is only three hours from Brisbane, it's definitely a country town. And it's much different to metropolitan USA.

"Here they have their motorbikes, and they get to yell at cows. It's all perspective."

Mr Bray said the biggest win had been for his health: "That probably comes as no surprise".

"When you live the corporate life, every meeting seems to be over a meal. Here I get the opportunity to go outside every day and I honestly feel like I've gained extra years of life."

Mr Bray has moved into angus cattle, and even though he takes his farm very seriously, he remains realistic of his place in the farming world.

"The reasoning for the tree change was never to become financially independent with cattle," he said.

"Running cattle was a new challenge, and for me, to understand and learn another area of life. And I've definitely learned a lot."

Mr Bray said he received a reality check soon after he moved to the farm.

"I had just ploughed one of my fields to plant some oats and the Grammys were on TV. I would normally be at the Grammys," he said.

"Here I am in my overalls, dirt all over my face from the dust and the tractor, and that was a real reality check right there.

Mr Bray still operates several businesses in Australia and overseas, and says the internet helps him do what he does from home.

"We're very fortunate that our house faces one of the towers in town, so we get wireless NBN, and we're all happy in that regard," he said.

He has advice for any would-be tree changers: "If you have the financial ability to do it, then do it".

"But remember that rural communities are finding it tough. Jobs are leaving. I'd be guessing the average salary here is considerably less than in the city too.

"But as far as quality of life goes, you can't beat it."

Graham Jones from Nana Glen in New South Wales puts a unique twist on the classic sea-to-tree change.

He competed in "a couple of Sydney to Hobart yacht races, a Round the World race, and many of eastern seaboard races" before buying a farm near Coffs Harbour.

But farming was not an entirely new concept to Mr Jones.

Prior to moving to Sydney for his sailing endeavours he had worked in broad-acre cropping, and was involved in running and operating farms.

"I've always had a love for the land and it was always my intention to buy my own farm and develop it," he said.

His return to agriculture has seen him explore a different type of growing, known as micro farming.

Six years ago, Mr Jones bought a 44-hectare property and converted six hectares of it to suit micro farming.

"It is pretty much a farm that concentrates on intensive farming in a very small area to produce food," he said.

"We've always liked the idea of having our own sustainable grow-your-own-food kind of place.

"We only have a limited number of acres so we need to be aware of the inputs and intensity of that.

"You have got to be aware of the symbiotic relationships between things, the types of crops you're growing and how they help each other."

Mr Jones said the crops he chose to grow were based on the seasons.

"We try to stick to what is seasonably available, so we don't try to grow pineapples in winter for example, and we do it in quantities for our local market and ourselves," he said.

Mr Jones now wants to help other farmers learn about micro farming.

"We have just embarked on a new venture which is a business using my years of experience in the industry, helping other people with their farms."

As high profile journalists of the 1990s, Kirsty Cockburn and George Negus made a tree change to Bellingen in northern NSW around 30 years ago.

"We bought the place at a time when we were bang in the middle of high-flying journalistic careers at Channel 9," Ms Cockburn said.

"I'd lived and worked near the centre of Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne and Sydney, and George had been travelling worldwide.

"So the Bellinger Valley was a big contrast to city life."

Ms Cockburn said one of the greatest gifts they got from the move was normality.

On their secluded Gleniffer retreat, she said they were able to have an intimate family life — something that would have been hard to achieve in the city.

"People who travel a lot know it sounds glamorous, but actually coming home to Bellingen was wonderful," she said.

"When you had to go away you just loved driving back down the driveway and being here."

Cockburn said there was an amazing level of "neighbourliness" from local farmers when they first arrived in the valley.

"I think they thought we were a bit bonkers, but they helped us nonetheless," she said.

"When I used a post-hole digger to dig all of our holes to plant trees I think they thought 'What? We've spent all our lives getting rid of trees, logging and so on'."

She said they were now caretakers or custodians of the land they bought all those years ago.

"The land that we inherited was devoid of anything other than grass and a few pioneer rainforest trees, and the rest was weed, camphor laurels and privet," she said.

"Now it's just a total thrill to see it healthy and regenerated."

The couple's children are now grown up and have left home, but they too love returning to Bellingen.

"The only sad thing is the lack of local jobs, which means kids leave and people have to commute for work," she said.

"It's tragic that in the last 30 years the rural areas of Australia have not re-invented their economies other than hand-to-mouth small business and tourism."

Vanessa and Michael Vazquez Evans were solicitors in Sydney for 10 years, living in the inner-west before moving to the Blue Mountains and a two-hour commute each way.

They were looking for a better work-life balance when an opening for a law firm in Orange came up.

"We came out for a weekend, we loved it and we haven't looked back," Ms Vazquez Evans said.

She was on maternity leave with a six-month-old son at the time and initially the firm employed her husband.

But when they discovered she was a lawyer too they offered her flexible, family-friendly conditions.

"Just the idea of working and living in the same community — it's really hard for lawyers to achieve," she said.

"The hours we're able to work at this firm in Orange allow us to be present for our children, so we always all have breakfast and dinner together and sometimes even lunch, so I think that's really special."

Recently they built and moved into a home on acreage in the Mullion Creek area, about 25 minutes out of Orange.

"We really wanted our kids to grow up on land. We thought if you're going to be in the country you should have a little piece of country life," Ms Vazquez Evans said.

She said sunsets from their deck were amazing.

"It really brings to life what it means to live out here, drinking sundowners on the deck."

Compared to their daily commute to Sydney from the Blue Mountains, Ms Vazquez Evans said the drive into Orange was "restorative".

"It's exciting, I'm sure it'll get mundane like all things, but at the moment being three kilometres down a bush road, with trees either side, swerving to miss the odd kangaroo is a pleasant but scary prospect we face quite often," she said.

Living in a rural area also means they live 'off the grid'.

"I did wonder about things like internet, Foxtel, septic systems and tank water. I really am a city slicker," she said.

"Fortunately we've got satellite NBN, which is not too bad. We do have phone reception in most parts of the house."

By comparison, she said her sister-in-law's wi-fi in Castle Cove in Sydney goes down all the time.

Ms Vazquez Evans said her career trajectory took a different path to the one she had anticipated for herself living in Sydney.

But at the same time she had more autonomy and responsibility for growing the business, as well the opportunity to do academic work for Charles Sturt University law school, which she would not have considered when living in the city.

"I think if you are creative about your career path something better comes along, and it certainly has for me."

Trading trams for tractors was an easy choice for Donovan and Melissa Jacka, who left the city with their two children in 2013 looking for a quieter life.

The family left their South Melbourne home and careers and headed to Tarrawingee, in north-east Victoria's gourmet food region, to start a small goat dairy and cheese factory.

Ms Jacka said the transition from city to country had been a big change for her family.

"It was our love of food and a desire to live a quieter life that led us here," she said.

"The block of land we lived on in South Melbourne fits in our veggie garden, so the space in phenomenal.

"As our careers progressed and we started a family we saw that we were moving in the wrong direction and not having enough quality time as a family."

Their Tolpuddle micro dairy is home to around 60 goats and sells artisan goats' cheese at farmers' markets.

For her two children, Mackenzie and Harvey, it was a big learning curve to go from the city to the country.

"My eldest still gets a little homesick for Melbourne but she gets her fix every school holidays," Ms Jacka said.

"They don't just like the good stuff and they are quite comfortable with the things that go wrong, and they have a very pragmatic view about life and death as we deal with the cycles of that on a farm.

"They both have their own goats in the herd and have delivered their babies confidently and competently.

"They are remarkable kids and they have really taken to the life."

Following a heart attack and two subsequent strokes, John and his wife Julie Mitchell moved from inner-city Adelaide to Kyneton in central Victoria.

"We were looking for a pleasant lifestyle because we realised my working days had almost ceased," Mr Mitchell said.

"Kyneton seemed to offer a pleasant lifestyle. It was reasonably cosmopolitan I suppose in country terms."

Accessibility to Melbourne was their biggest concern, and with close proximity to the railway station and the highway it seemed like a good choice.

So they moved from their "ultra-modern, minimalist, architecturally-designed house" to an 1800s cottage they saw on the internet.

"I'd always harboured the dream of a country cottage, like a lot of people do," Ms Mitchell said.

"When we moved here it was a bit of a shock."

More than two years later the place was finally renovated.

Despite the renovation challenge, the former PR consultant and self-confessed workaholic "found" himself again after joining the local men's shed, which he credits with helping him form friendships in the community.

But while Mr Mitchell has connected to the community, his wife has less so.

"In Adelaide she was the outgoing person and I tended to be the recluse. In Kyneton, my wife is the recluse and I'm the outgoing person," he said.

"I've had a change of personality since I had the strokes. I'm now happy to talk to anybody, anywhere, anytime."

Sparing herself a two-and-a-half-hour daily commute to work and enjoying a lower cost of living has been advantageous to Debra Pearce.

Ms Pearce and her husband, Warren, moved to Mildura in north-west Victoria from Melbourne in December 2014.

The couple had passed through Mildura on several occasions.

"There was no hesitation. It took us a little while to arrange everything and get work lined up, but we've not looked back.

"This is our home now."

After first hearing about the Mildura Newcomers group at a Victorian Regional Living Expo in Melbourne, Ms Pearce said it was the ideal way for her and her husband to meet new people.

Now secretary of the group, Ms Pearce is repaying the favour and helping welcome and support other newcomers to the regional city.

"I think in lots of ways you never stop being a newcomer — there's always more to learn," she said.

"There is a difference from the people who have lived here their whole lives and the connections and knowledge they have.

"However, this is a very friendly town and people are welcoming. And I think that really helps people like me, who have only been here a couple of years, really feel like I do belong here."

A small town in the grain belt of western Victoria has a unique attraction for bringing in city folk.

Natimuk lies 12 kilometres from Mount Arapiles, one of Australia's foremost rock climbing destinations.

The town sits on flat land surrounded by wheat and canola, but rising out of the western horizon is "the mount", as it is commonly referred to.

The position of Mount Arapiles and the skies of the Wimmera afford some spectacular sunsets.

Adam Demmert and Cath De Vaus were nervous about moving from Melbourne to Natimuk at first.

Mr Denmert said he was worried about being able to get work and finding a balance between making friends and having privacy.

While the couple missed the small things, such as access to a variety of food and restaurants, they were pleased they made the move.

"We definitely have no regrets," he said.

"The community in Natimuk is just amazing, so inclusive and welcoming."

Mr Denmert and Ms De Vaus moved for the lifestyle. They can both afford to work part-time, which gives them more time for other activities — like climbing.

The couple said the best part was being close to some of the best climbing in the world.

"It's clichéd, but true," Mr Denmert said.

And for anyone thinking about making the move their advice was simple: "just do it".

It was a beautiful big golden elm tree that won over Rosemary Tierney and her family to the 16-hectare property that would become their home at Hynam, in South Australia's south-east, two years ago.

A dedicated city girl, Ms Tierney was working as a television journalist for the ABC in Adelaide and her husband Stephen was travelling an hour each way to work as a winemaker at McLaren Vale, when both felt ready for a change of lifestyle.

"Life was good, but it was also very busy," Ms Tierney said.

"We were looking for a simpler and also a less stressful life.

"I didn't want to be the kind of person who stayed in the city my entire life."

In 2014, they found the place they would call home near Naracoorte, where Stephen's family lived, a far cry from the tiny 400-square-metre block in Stepney where they lived with children Eva and Sid.

"It just fit. We walked around and it felt like a family home and a home we could make our own," Ms Tierney said.

Life out in a regional area is vastly different to city life but Ms Tierney declared it "wonderful".

"I walk down the street in Naracoorte and everyone smiles and says hello to you. That does not happen in the city," she said.

Bonfires and paddock parties have replaced nights out and dinners at fancy restaurants, but Ms Tierney admitted she did miss shopping and a good barista on hand in the morning.

The family also gained first-hand knowledge into why country people were always on about the lack of good phone and internet service.

"My family in Adelaide can't understand," Ms Tierney said.

"I ring them standing ten metres away from the house, trying to get reception. It is infuriating."

On the bright side, Ms Tierney was able to watch eight-year-old Sid hoon around on his motorbike and six-year-old Eva ride her pony, Prince, in the paddock.

"It is lovely to say to the kids 'get outside and go play' because in Adelaide there wasn't enough room to play," she said.

Now working as a real estate agent, Ms Tierney said she was seeing more and more people from the city walk through the doors looking for properties or land, seeking help with their own tree change.

Her own family was the best advertisement for such a move, Ms Tierney said, and they had no regrets at all.

"My husband and I often talk about it and say: 'This is the best thing we have ever done'."

When Clarissa Forster and Nick Boyd lived in inner-city Melbourne they filled their evenings with live music and dinners out at restaurants.

Now living in north-west Tasmania they have their hands full feeding their five cows and five chickens, and tending to the extensive vegetable patch on their five-hectare block.

The tree change was not planned.

Ms Forster and Mr Boyd are both nature lovers and wanted to explore the Tarkine Wilderness Area.

"We jumped on the boat to do a short whip around and fell in love with the area," Ms Forster said.

After doing a quick search for any available jobs, they found themselves both being offered work and decided to move down at the end of 2015.

"When we were in Melbourne we found we were looking at ways to get out of the city — camping, bike riding, bush walking. When we were down here we realised this is exactly what we wanted," Ms Forster said.

But the couple still missed being able to wander down the main street of Brunswick and find entertainment.

"Things are a bit different now because there are not the same options," Ms Forster said.

"The two biggest things I miss: the culture and the commute."

Ms Forster rode her bike to work along the flat streets of Melbourne for her 35-minute commute to work, which was quicker than the tram, but now drives from their rural home to the nearest city, Burnie, for work.

Those rides have been replaced with exploring the hilly, unsealed country roads around their new place by bicycle.

"Every morning we wake up and feel in some ways like we are on holiday, even though we go to work every day. Come home to that!"

Tammy Morley worked at the State Library of Queensland in Brisbane for 28 years before opening a gallery in New Norfolk, 35 kilometres from Hobart, in the beautiful Derwent Valley.

Initially, Ms Morley thought she would get work in Hobart and commute from her and her partner Frank's 50-hectare farm in Black Hills, "20 minutes up the hill from New Norfolk", but found librarian work hard to come by.

"Maybe not getting work in my career field was a bit of a drawback, but it was actually looking at options to turn that around that led me on a totally different path, but one that I'm really loving and enjoying," she said.

"We also didn't want to replicate one city lifestyle for another, so that's what drew us to New Norfolk.

"We thought life really is short and if there's a way we can look at doing something different now, while we're still young enough to enjoy it, then maybe we should look at that."

Ms Morley said opening the gallery and getting involved with the New Norfolk Business Alliance brought her in contact with people she may not necessarily have met.

"That's one of the things that has helped me engage with the community," she said.

"Locals and day-trippers are becoming aware there's beautiful work in Tasmania, often using Tasmanian products by Tasmanian artists and makers."

Even though New Norfolk is just 45 minutes from Hobart, in Tasmania it is considered regional.

"So regional funding is available for community engagement and for workshops and wonderful things that I can run in the gallery," Ms Morley said.

"But really you're just a hop, step and a jump from the CBD ... which is a different mind-set for people who live here, but one I'm willing to embrace."

Ms Morley lives an hour from national parks, and 45 minutes to a capital city — "a perfect mix" — but it snows regularly, which has been an adjustment for the former Queenslander.

"I've put in a garden growing roses, tulips, freesias and daffodils, which don't grow successfully in Brisbane," she said.

"The only regret is that we didn't do it sooner.

"And our neighbours are sweethearts — if I get stuck with anything while Frank's away, all I have to do is pick up the phone and reinforcements come, so your empty woodshed gets filled up.

"In a small community, you really depend on that."

Credits

Topics: community-and-society, regional, human-interest, lifestyle-and-leisure, lifestyle, australia, orange-2800, new-norfolk-7140, elliott-7325, hynam-5262, natimuk-3409, mildura-3500, kyneton-3444, shepparton-3630, bellingen-2454, coffs-harbour-2450, stanthorpe-4380, mackay-4740, wiluna-6646, alice-springs-0870

First posted