Donald Trump: White House vows to fight court's temporary block of 'lawful' travel ban



Donald Trump: White House vows to fight court's temporary block of 'lawful' travel ban

Updated

A US federal judge in Seattle has granted a nationwide temporary restraining order blocking President Donald Trump's recent action barring nationals from seven countries from entering the United States.

Key points: Federal judge suggests travel ban be lifted immediately across US

Trump administration expected to repeal decision

60,000 visas revoked as result of Trump's executive order

Judge James L Robart's temporary restraining order represents a major setback for Trump's action, although his administration could still have the policy put back into effect with an appeal.

The White House said it believed the ban to be "lawful and appropriate" and said the US Department of Justice would file an emergency motion to stop the judge's order taking effect.

The judge had declined to stay the order, suggesting that travel restrictions could be lifted immediately.

"At the earliest possible time, the Department of Justice intends to file an emergency stay of this outrageous order and defend the executive order of the President," the White House statement said.

The word "outrageous" was retracted in a second revised statement.

But shortly afterwards, the Department of Justice released a statement saying it would not be filing the emergency stay on Friday night.

Otherwise, the order will remain in place until Judge Robart considers state attorney-general Bob Ferguson's lawsuit challenging key parts of Mr Trump's order as illegal and unconstitutional.

If found illegal, the executive order would be permanently invalidated nationwide.

Mr Ferguson said the decision "shuts down the executive order right now".

"The constitution prevailed today," he said.

"No-one is above the law — not even the President."

It is understood to be the broadest legal ruling to date against the travel ban.

Mr Ferguson said he expected the US Federal Government to honour the ruling.

Ban needs to be 'based in fact, not fiction'

The challenge was brought by the state of Washington and later joined by the state of Minnesota.

Washington's case was based on claims that the state had suffered harm from the travel ban, for example students and faculty at state-funded universities being stranded overseas.

Judge Robart probed a Justice Department lawyer on what he called the "litany of harms" suffered by Washington state's universities, and also questioned the administration's use of the September 11 attacks on the United States as a justification for the ban.

He said no attacks had been carried out on US soil by individuals from the seven countries affected by the travel ban since that assault.

For Mr Trump's order to be constitutional, Judge Robart said, it had to be "based in fact, as opposed to fiction".

The decision came on a day that attorneys in four states were in courts challenging Mr Trump's executive order.

The immigration executive order signed by Mr Trump a week ago temporarily halted the US refugee program and imposed a 90-day suspension on people traveling from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.

Mr Trump said the measures would help protect Americans from terrorist attacks, but opponents labelled it an unconstitutional order targeting people based on religious beliefs.

60,000 visas revoked as a result of order

The State Department said about 60,000 visas previously issued to citizens of the seven blocked countries had been revoked as a result of the executive order.

"A provisional revocation means the Department of State has invalidated a visa for use to travel to the United States and apply for entry, but may restore the visa's validity at a subsequent time without requiring the traveller to submit a new visa application," said William Cocks, a spokesman for consular affairs at the State Department.

"We will communicate updates to affected travellers following the 90-day review," Mr Cocks said.

It was not clear on Friday night whether that suspension was automatically revoked or what travellers with such visas might confront at US airports.

Still, just hours after the ruling, US Customs and Border Protection told airlines they could board travellers who had been affected by the ban.

Government lawyers had previously said in court that more than 100,000 visas were affected, however the State Department put the figure at fewer than 60,000 once diplomatic and expired visas were excluded from the total.

On Friday (local time) the Department of Homeland Security issued additional clarification of the order, stating that there were no plans to extend it beyond the seven countries.

The DHS also reiterated that the ban did not apply to green card holders and some others, such as those who had helped the US military.

The new Republican President's order, signed on January 27, triggered chaos at US airports last weekend. Some travellers abroad were turned back from flights into the US, and the status of permanent residents or dual citizens was unclear.

A Detroit US district judge said lawyers for the Government clarified to her that the ban did not apply to "lawful" permanent residents.

Reuters/AP

Topics: immigration, refugees, us-elections, government-and-politics, world-politics, united-states

First posted