Record Number of Refugees and Migrants Died in the Mediterranean This Winter, UNICEF Says
Record Number of Refugees, Migrants Died in Mediterranean This Winter: UNICEF
Shares               A record number of refugees and migrants have died in the Mediterranean this winter, UNICEF announced Friday. "At least 1,354 migrants and refugees drowned in the period from November 2016 to the end of January 2017 -- with the majority of deaths occurring on the dangerous Central Mediterranean sea route between Libya and Italy where 1,191 people are reported to have perished," UNICEF said in a news release . "This is almost 13 times the number of fatalities reported for this route over the same period in 2015 to 2016," the organization added.   An estimated 190 of the migrants and refugees who died this winter were children, according to UNICEF.       "The growing number of children lost at sea underscores the acute danger of the journey from North Africa to Italy, as well as the pressing need for governments on both sides of the Mediterranean to do more to keep them safe," said UNICEF Deputy Executive Director Justin Forsyth in the news release. The announcement of the record number of migrant and refugee deaths in the Mediterranean came just before the European Union embraced a plan at a summit in Malta Friday to curb the flow of Libyan migrants to the archipelago country, according to The Associated Press. More than 1,400 migrants were rescued in the Mediterranean within a 24-hour period, Italy's coast guard said on Thursday, according to international news agency Agence France-Presse. "A key element of a sustainable migration policy is to ensure effective control of our external border and stem illegal flows into the EU," leaders of the 28 countries declared, The AP reported. However, the U.N. and other advocacy groups expressed concern about the new EU plan, worrying that Libyan migrants and refugees could be trapped in the country or sent back home to the same suffering they risked their lives to escape, according to The AP. Shares                  Record Number of Refugees, Migrants Died in Mediterranean This Winter: UNICEF   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban But Regrets Quick Rollout   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Romania President: We Are in a Crisis   State, Federal Lawyers in Court to Argue Trump Travel Ban   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   UN: Israeli Settlement Law Crosses 'Thick Red Line'   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Trump's Church Politics Idea Has Wide Reach, Beyond GOP Base   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Queens Jogger Murder Suspect Allegedly Said He 'Lost It'   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   3 Former 'Bachelors' Advise Nick Viall After Triple Elimination   Suicide Bomber Strikes Afghan Supreme Court, Killing 19   Texas Rangers to Help Search for Tom Brady's Stolen Super Bowl Jersey, Lt. Gov. Says   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   $250M Los Angeles Mega Mansion Is Most Expensive US Listing

A record number of refugees and migrants have died in the Mediterranean this winter, UNICEF announced Friday.

"At least 1,354 migrants and refugees drowned in the period from November 2016 to the end of January 2017 -- with the majority of deaths occurring on the dangerous Central Mediterranean sea route between Libya and Italy where 1,191 people are reported to have perished," UNICEF said in a news release.

"This is almost 13 times the number of fatalities reported for this route over the same period in 2015 to 2016," the organization added.

An estimated 190 of the migrants and refugees who died this winter were children, according to UNICEF.

"The growing number of children lost at sea underscores the acute danger of the journey from North Africa to Italy, as well as the pressing need for governments on both sides of the Mediterranean to do more to keep them safe," said UNICEF Deputy Executive Director Justin Forsyth in the news release.

The announcement of the record number of migrant and refugee deaths in the Mediterranean came just before the European Union embraced a plan at a summit in Malta Friday to curb the flow of Libyan migrants to the archipelago country, according to The Associated Press.

More than 1,400 migrants were rescued in the Mediterranean within a 24-hour period, Italy's coast guard said on Thursday, according to international news agency Agence France-Presse.

"A key element of a sustainable migration policy is to ensure effective control of our external border and stem illegal flows into the EU," leaders of the 28 countries declared, The AP reported.

However, the U.N. and other advocacy groups expressed concern about the new EU plan, worrying that Libyan migrants and refugees could be trapped in the country or sent back home to the same suffering they risked their lives to escape, according to The AP.