Abbott government's Indigenous Advancement Strategy shows how not to spend $5b taxpayers' dollars



Abbott government's Indigenous Advancement Strategy shows how not to spend $5b taxpayers' dollars

Updated

A short chauffeur-driven jaunt from Parliament House in Canberra is the National Press Club.

In front of its distinctive blue backdrop, and live on national television, politicians spruik how their ideas are going to help thousands, if not millions, of Australians.

At the same time, in a unremarkable white three-storey office across the road, workers at the Australian National Audit Office quietly beaver away.

They painstakingly examine how the policies, sold in the building opposite, have actually been rolled out.

On Friday, the auditors delivered a blistering assessment of the Coalition government's signature Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander affairs policy, the Indigenous Advancement Strategy (IAS).

"The department did not effectively implement the strategy," the report quickly declared.

The IAS is overseeing $4.8 billion over four years for vital Indigenous services.

The program brought more than 3,000 existing funding deals, overseen by eight agencies, into the Prime Minister's Department and introduced a competitive tender process.

The way it did that, according to the independent watchdog, was a textbook case of how not to implement policy.

How not to set up a program

Plan a process that delivers $1.2 billion a year "in a seven-week timeframe".

Meet with Indigenous groups and leaders about the design of a program but "not keep records of the meetings".

Set "tight timeframes" that are unachievable then "extend the timeframes" but "not meet the revised timeframes" (such as finalising a risk management plan 17 months late).

How not to pick applications you're going to fund

Fail to "assess applications in a manner that was consistent with the guidelines".

Provide recommendations to the minister containing "significant shortcomings".

"Not document key decisions."

How not to implement a strategy

Conduct "largely verbal" negotiations with grant recipients, leaving it unclear whether talks "were fair and transparent".

"Not adequately advise applicants of the projects and amount of funding approved."

Devise performance indicators that "cannot be easily linked to the achievement of results".

There you have it, a smattering of the lessons the Auditor-General and his staff no doubt hope the politicians across the road read and heed before spending the next $5 billion.

Topics: government-and-politics, indigenous-policy, abbott-tony, australia, canberra-2600

First posted