Review ordered into prosecution of British soldiers over teenager's death amid fears evidence has been tainted by Phil Shiner
Review ordered into prosecution of British soldiers over teenager's death amid fears evidence has been tainted by Phil Shiner
hree soldiers accused of killing an Iraqi teenager 13 years ago are to have their case reviewed amid concerns that evidence was tainted by the actions of the discredited lawyer Phil Shiner. The veterans, including an Army major decorated for bravery, are the only troops currently facing charges as a result of criminal investigations by the £60 million Iraq Historic Allegations team (Ihat). But the involvement of Shiner, who was this week struck off as a solicitor for dishonesty, lack of integrity and paying “sweeteners” to agents, may now lead to the collapse of the high-profile case. eremy Wright QC, the Attorney General, has requested Ihat review all ongoing investigations that rely on Shiner and fixers in Iraq. The vast majority of nearly 3,500 cases investigated by Ihat were referred to it by Shiner. The Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal heard this week how Shiner’s law firm Public Interest Lawyers (PIL) and one Iraqi agent each were paid £1.6 million in an improper deal to carve up profits made from suing the Ministry of Defence (MoD). The fixer was also paid £500 for each Iraqi he could find who made allegations against British troops. Ihat separately paid PIL and one of its agents for help with witnesses, a highly controversial deal that was subsequently scrapped by the MoD. he Telegraph disclosed in September how the three soldiers, two of whom are still serving, had been told by Ihat they faced prosecution over the death of Said Shabram, a 19-year-old who drowned in 2003. A file was passed to the Service Prosecuting Authority (SPA) recommending the men be charged despite a military investigation in 2006 that cleared the three men of wrongdoing. But the SPA said on Friday it was now reviewing the case - known as Ihat 87 - in the light of Shiner’s demise. n SPA spokesman said the case was being 'scrutinised’, including “whether Phil Shiner and his law firm Public interest lawyers may have had involvement in the case and if so, what involvement that has been. “Given Phil Shiner has accepted professional wrong doing and given the evidence relating to that wrong doing is now in the public domain, the review process is now able to look further and fully into whether Shiner and PIL had involvement in Ihat 87.” Johnny Mercer, a Conservative MP chairing a parliamentary inquiry into Ihat and its treatment of troops under suspicion, said: “It is right that the Attorney General has requested a review of Shiner’s involvement with the Ihat cases. "It is a scandal that Shiner and his law firm were paid money by the MoD for so-called help with the discredited investigation into British troops.” r Mercer said he had met with the Attorney General who had reassured him Shiner’s involvement in all cases was now subject to scrutiny. A source close to the case said Shiner was involved amid suggestions that agents had found witnesses to Mr Shabram’s death and brought them to Ihat’s attention. The source said: “Ihat is squirming over this. The deal to give Shiner money to help with Ihat investigations is nothing short of a disgrace. Veterans have been left traumatised.” Hilary Meredith, a lawyer representing a number of troops under investigation, said: “It is a national disgrace. No credibility should be attached to any evidence from Shiner and his agents on the ground in Iraq.” Ihat declined to comment.

An SPA spokesman said the case was being 'scrutinised’, including “whether Phil Shiner and his law firm Public interest lawyers may have had involvement in the case and if so, what involvement that has been.

“Given Phil Shiner has accepted professional wrong doing and given the evidence relating to that wrong doing is now in the public domain, the review process is now able to look further and fully into whether Shiner and PIL had involvement in Ihat 87.”

Johnny Mercer, a Conservative MP chairing a parliamentary inquiry into Ihat and its treatment of troops under suspicion, said: “It is right that the Attorney General has requested a review of Shiner’s involvement with the Ihat cases.

"It is a scandal that Shiner and his law firm were paid money by the MoD for so-called help with the discredited investigation into British troops.”