The Top 10 Jobs Among New Immigrants (And What They Show Us)
The Top 10 Jobs Among New Immigrants (And What They Show Us)
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Newer immigrants gravitate to science and tech jobs to a greater extent than those that came before, due to their education level and point of origin. (image credit: Shutterstock) If you look at the jobs occupied by immigrants to the U.S. as a whole and those held by immigrants who have arrived within the past five years, you see differences that hint at a number of changes to the makeup of peoples arriving in recent years. According to a recent report compiled by Indeed.com, a large jobs board based in Texas that operates internationally, new immigrants’ jobs show a greater level of education and an increase in numbers from other parts of the world. Using census data, Indeed compiled a list of the top jobs for new immigrants – those who arrived to our shores over the past five years – which you can view in our slideshow below. The 10 Top Jobs Among Recent U.S. Immigrants In 2017 Among the top ten are positions in the realms of medical and life sciences, software development, market research and computer sciences. These represent a break with the normal career choices of the immigrant community as a whole. “There’s been a very big change in the past five to ten years in where immigrants to the U.S. come from and how educated they are,” says Indeed chief economist and head of research, Jed Kolko. “A big shift from immigrants coming from Latin America – particularly Mexico – to, more recently, much higher numbers of immigrants coming from Asia, especially India.” For a better perspective, here’s a list of the top 10 jobs among U.S. immigrants that you can compare to those popular among new immigrants: Graders and Sorters, Agricultural Products Personal Appearance Workers Plasterers and Stucco Masons Sewing Machine Operators Drywall Installers, Ceiling Tile Installers, and Tapers Agricultural Workers Tailors, Dressmakers, and Sewers Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners Pressers, Textile, Germanet, and Related Materials Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs Jobs taken by recent immigrants and those chosen by the entire immigrant population as a whole have some similarities, like agricultural worker and personal appearance workers. But newer immigrants gravitate to science and tech jobs to a greater extent than those that came before, due to their education level and point of origin. Changes to the makeup of U.S. immigrants followed the economic slowdown following the 2008 U.S. housing bubble burst, says Kolko. “It meant, first of all, much weaker demand in the construction industry, which took away a lot of demand in a set of occupations common for immigrants, particularly from Latin America.” Immigrants looking to move for economic reasons, says Kolko, began to find the U.S. slightly less appealing than they had before.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you look at the jobs occupied by immigrants to the U.S. as a whole and those held by immigrants who have arrived within the past five years, you see differences that hint at a number of changes to the makeup of peoples arriving in recent years.

According to a recent report compiled by Indeed.com, a large jobs board based in Texas that operates internationally, new immigrants’ jobs show a greater level of education and an increase in numbers from other parts of the world. Using census data, Indeed compiled a list of the top jobs for new immigrants – those who arrived to our shores over the past five years – which you can view in our slideshow below.

Among the top ten are positions in the realms of medical and life sciences, software development, market research and computer sciences. These represent a break with the normal career choices of the immigrant community as a whole. “There’s been a very big change in the past five to ten years in where immigrants to the U.S. come from and how educated they are,” says Indeed chief economist and head of research, Jed Kolko. “A big shift from immigrants coming from Latin America – particularly Mexico – to, more recently, much higher numbers of immigrants coming from Asia, especially India.”

For a better perspective, here’s a list of the top 10 jobs among all U.S. immigrants that you can compare to those popular among new immigrants:

Top Jobs Among All Immigrants

Graders and Sorters, Agricultural Products Personal Appearance Workers Plasterers and Stucco Masons Sewing Machine Operators Drywall Installers, Ceiling Tile Installers, and Tapers Agricultural Workers Tailors, Dressmakers, and Sewers Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners Pressers, Textile, Germanet, and Related Materials Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs

Jobs taken by recent immigrants and those chosen by the entire immigrant population as a whole have some similarities, like agricultural worker and personal appearance workers. But newer immigrants gravitate to science and tech jobs to a greater extent than those that came before, due to their education level and point of origin.

Changes to the makeup of U.S. immigrants followed the economic slowdown following the 2008 U.S. housing bubble burst, says Kolko. “It meant, first of all, much weaker demand in the construction industry, which took away a lot of demand in a set of occupations common for immigrants, particularly from Latin America.” Immigrants looking to move for economic reasons, says Kolko, began to find the U.S. slightly less appealing than they had before.