Fabio Di Lello shoots driver who killed his wife in Italy
Husband shoots  driver who killed his wife in Italy


A husband hunted down the driver who killed his wife and shot him dead after changing his profile picture to Russell Crowe's avenging Gladiator character.

Fabio Di Lello handed himself in to police after gunning down Italo D'Elisa, who faced manslaughter charges for mowing down Roberta Smargiassi, 33, last year.

The semi-professional footballer had changed his Facebook to a picture of Maximus Decimus Meridius from the 2000 film, in which Crowe famously delivers the line: 'Father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. And I will have my vengeance, in this life or the next.'

Fabio Di Lello handed himself into police after gunning down a man accused of killing his wife

Fabio Di Lello and his wife Roberta Smargiassi who was killed last year by a driver

Di Lello had changed his Facebook to a picture of Maximus Decimus Meridius from the 2000 film, in which Crowe famously delivers the line: 'Father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. And I will have my vengeance, in this life or the next.'

Roberta Smagiassi, who was killed when a driver ran a red light and ploughed into her moped

Di Lello is said to have shot D'Elisa dead outside a cafe in Vasto, Abruzzo, before walking to his wife's grave to place the gun upon it.

She was on her moped when she was hit by D'Elisa, who had run a red light, according to the Telegraph.

Lawyers for Di Lello, who was a semi-professional footballer, said their client feared the man who killed his wife would not be brought to justice and is thought to have taken the law into his own hands.

Italo D'Elisa was gunned down in the street

Prosecutors have called the shooting a 'tragedy within a tragedy' after the death toll doubled.

Di Lello's lawyer Giovanni Carella told the Telegraph his client was in shock and depressed about his wife, but said: 'I never got the impression that he was planning a vendetta like this.

'I was dumbfounded when I found out.

'He had no experience of handling firearms.

'But his psychological state was very fragile.'

Major Giancarlo Vitiello, the commander of the Carabinieri police in Vasto told the Telegraph: 'This is a tragic business that has shocked the whole town.'

The heartbroken husband was said to be beside himself with grief after he lost his wife in the summer, and killed the man accused of doing it with a number of bullets from a 9mm pistol.

Fabio Di Lello was tortured by grief over the loss of his wife Roberta in a road accident last summer.

Police arrested him on Wednesday after officers were called to the graveyard.

He remains in custody and is likely to be charged with murder once the post-mortem has been carried out on D'Elisa, who was due to appear in court this month.