Payback Potential As Australian Prime Minister's 'Dumb Deal' Earns Trump Tongue-Lashing
Payback Potential As Australian Prime Minister's 'Dumb Deal' Earns Trump Tongue-Lashing
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Inside Asia       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. U.S. President Donald Trump on the phone with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull in the Oval Office of the White House on January 28, 2017. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) In their first post-inauguration phone call on Saturday, Turnbull got a grudging commitment from Trump that the deal stood, but he also got a tongue-lashing from the U.S. President that was made public in a article later in the week. Trump followed up with a Twitter comment late on Wednesday night: Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2017 In truth, the agreement with Obama wasn’t a particularly smart move by Turnbull’s administration, which has tried to kill the people-smuggling trade into Australia by saying that no one who arrives by boat will ever be settled in Australia. They are sent to detention centers in Nauru and Papua New Guinea’s Manus Island, where they wait for years while their validity as asylum seekers is assessed. Iranian asylum seekers who were caught in Indonesian waters while sailing to Australia sit on a boat at Benoa port in Bali, Indonesia. (Photo by AP/Firdia Lisnawati) The U.S. may look to Australia for increased military support across the world. (Photo by AP/Rob Griffith)    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Deal or no deal? For U.S. President Donald Trump, the agreement his predecessor Barack Obama struck with close ally Australia to take refugees from offshore detention centers on two Pacific islands was a “dumb deal.”

But Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull saw it differently – a deal was a deal, and as a businessman, Trump should know he had to honor it.

In their first post-inauguration phone call on Saturday, Turnbull got a grudging commitment from Trump that the deal stood, but he also got a tongue-lashing from the U.S. President that was made public in a Washington Post article later in the week. Trump followed up with a Twitter comment late on Wednesday night:

Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2017

Publicly humiliated

Welcome to international diplomacy, Trump-style, where even the staunchest of allies can be publicly humiliated for the sake of domestic politics. Having just signed an executive order temporarily barring refugees, Trump was loath to support a deal that could see refugees from Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan eventually arrive in the United States. It doesn’t matter that “extreme vetting” over the next six to 12 months could result in none of these asylum seekers being accepted. He didn’t like the look of this deal one bit, and he made sure everybody knew it, characterizing it as “the worst deal ever.”

Pressed by Australian media, Turnbull declined to respond to Trump’s outburst, simply saying: “I stand up for Australia in every forum, public or private.”

In truth, the agreement with Obama wasn’t a particularly smart move by Turnbull’s administration, which has tried to kill the people-smuggling trade into Australia by saying that no one who arrives by boat will ever be settled in Australia. They are sent to detention centers in Nauru and Papua New Guinea’s Manus Island, where they wait for years while their validity as asylum seekers is assessed.

Some have been offered places in other countries, but the agreement Turnbull and Obama reached in November last year was the first that involved a first-world final destination. It sent a message that refugees – or what Trump calls “illegal immigrants” – who arrived on a boat in Australia eventually might get to live in America.

RELATED: Is Australia The Land Of Opportunity For Migrants?

More Asia emphasis

As a successful businessman-turned-politician, Turnbull has seen his share of bombast and baloney. His time with the late Australian media tycoon Kerry Packer toughened him to the extreme egos that proliferate in parts of the business world, and while he is urbane and polite, he is not lacking in self-confidence either. But he misjudged Trump’s need for domestic aggrandizement, and has been made to look a chump for his troubles.

Coming on the heels of Trump’s ditching of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) regional trade agreement, it raises the question of whether the relationship between the U.S. and Australia is about to change, particularly now that China has become so important to Australia – it is Australia’s biggest trade partner and a significant investor in Australian real estate, tourism, agribusiness, education and energy.

Bob Carr, a former Australian foreign minister and now director of the pro-China think tank the Australia-China Relations Institute in Sydney, termed Trump’s treatment of Turnbull “a damned healthy thing for gallant, gullible little Australia. It clears the air.”

Carr wants what he calls a more practical relationship with the U.S. and a greater emphasis on Asia in Australia’s foreign policy.

Australia welcomes U.S. warplanes and ships, runs a joint electronic intelligence base in central Australia known as Pine Gap, and hosts a U.S. Marines training base in Darwin. It has been fighting alongside the United States for 100 years, from World War I through to World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan. Many influential Americans recognize that, including Trump, who – despite his phone fury – proclaims the “greatest respect” for Australia.

So he will allow the refugee deal, but will want payback in some way – possibly with an Australian naval presence in the South China Sea, or a bigger role in the Middle East.