I had a 'screw it moment', says MEP who held sign up behind Nigel Farage
I had a 'screw it moment', says MEP who held sign up behind Nigel Farage
Popular videos    Kellyanne Conway creates fake Bowling Green massacre story      Could A Cure for Wellness be the first great horror film of 2017?      Ghost in the Shell spot gets inside Scarlett Johansson's The Major      Donald Trump spent a National Prayer meeting plugging The Apprentice   A politician who held up a sign that said “HE’S LYING TO YOU” as Nigel Farage addressed the European Parliament said he was frustrated by the Eurosceptic politician’s “free pass” to speak unchallenged for three minutes. Labour's Seb Dance said he had a “screw it moment” when Mr Farage used the opportunity to praise US President Donald Trump and his travel ban on people from seven majority- Muslim countries. The London MEP’s handwritten sign was broadcast along with Mr Farage’s speech by the BBC, before a clerk told him to put it down. Read more MEP holds 'he's lying to you' sign as Farage speaks in EU Parliament 'Nigel Farage? He's the biggest waste of money in the EU' British people are warming to Donald Trump, says Nigel Farage Ukip later submitted a complaint about his conduct to parliamentary officials, but Mr Dance said he did not regret his actions. “I sat there frustrated, feeling that the sheer mendacity of Trump’s justifications for his travel ban were not being challenged,” he explained, in a comment piece he penned for . “Time ticked on and Farage’s speaking time drew nearer. I decided I had to try to do something and, noticing the empty chair behind him, I made a sudden decision to grab a piece of paper and scrawl a simple message on it.” Mr Dance admitted his behaviour had not been particularly “sophisticated” or “parliamentary”, but said he objected to Mr Farage’s argument that the travel ban was a matter for US sovereignty. “We are not questioning the US’s sovereignty, we are questioning the morality,” he told , adding that he was “fed up frankly with nationalist and populist messages being paraded around as if they were the solution to people’s problems”. Mr Farage is allowed to make an uninterrupted three-minute speech ahead of debates in the EU parliament because he is co-president of the officially recognised Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) grouping. But Mr Dance said he was angry that the former Ukip leader so often appears to be the dominant British voice in the parliament. Mr Farage said in his speech that the new US President was simply trying to protect his country from terrorists. He then appeared to insult other MEPs, saying: “I’m sure as democrats you would all agree that we need to have an open dialogue with the newly elected most powerful man in the world. If you throw that rejection back in my face, then you prove yourselves to be the anti-democratic zealots that I always thought you were.” He added: “It seems to me with all the anti-Trump rhetoric that is coming from everywhere, actually what we are hearing is the true nature of the European project, which is genuine anti-Americanism. “Trump is motivated by protecting the United States of America from Islamic terrorism whereas what has happened in this room and in governments around Europe is that you have welcomed these people into your own homes.” Mr Dance, who is Labour’s environment and climate change spokesperson in Europe as well as MEP for the UK capital, criticised how the response to a rise in right-wing populism “from many has been to fall over themselves to demonstrate the levels to which we understand this new direction and – terrifyingly – how we will acquiesce to it”. He said he acted in parliament because it is time to stop and “call out lies where we see them”. Nigel Farage joins 'Fishing for Leave' flotilla campaigning for Brexit               Nigel Farage joins 'Fishing for Leave' flotilla campaigning for Brexit       A Fishing for Leave pro-Brexit "flotilla" makes its way along the River Thames in London   PA        Boats from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group join a flotilla along the Thames River   Getty Images        Supporters of the EU Remain camp attach banners to Tower Bridge as they await a flotilla of fishing boats campaiging for Brexit to pass under the bridge   AFP/Getty Images        A Fishing for Leave pro-Brexit "flotilla" alongside HMS Belfast (left) as it makes its way along the River Thames   PA        Bob Geldof (centre) on board a boat taking part in a pro-EU counter demonstration   PA        A flotilla of fishing vessels campaigning to leave the European Union   REUTERS        A boat from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group and smaller boats from the 'In' campaign join a flotilla along the Thames River   Getty Images        A fishing boat campaiging for Brexit passes by the Tower of London   AFP/Getty Images        A boat decked out in flags and banners from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group   Getty Images        Fishing boats campaiging for Brexit pass under Tower Bridge   AFP/Getty Images  “No jobs will be created, no industries saved, no community enhanced by scapegoating immigrants for our problems. It’s time to call out those whose diet of hate, division and suspicion will create nothing but misery and poverty,” he said. The complaint against Mr Dance was submitted by Bill Etheridge, a Ukip MEP, who called his behaviour “pathetic and cowardly”. Mr Dance told : “Whatever the President and parliament decides, I am happy to accept the consequences.” More about: Nigel Farage European Parliament European Union Comments

A politician who held up a sign that said “HE’S LYING TO YOU” as Nigel Farage addressed the European Parliament said he was frustrated by the Eurosceptic politician’s “free pass” to speak unchallenged for three minutes.

Labour's Seb Dance said he had a “screw it moment” when Mr Farage used the opportunity to praise US President Donald Trump and his travel ban on people from seven majority-Muslim countries.

The London MEP’s handwritten sign was broadcast along with Mr Farage’s speech by the BBC, before a clerk told him to put it down.

Ukip later submitted a complaint about his conduct to parliamentary officials, but Mr Dance said he did not regret his actions.

“I sat there frustrated, feeling that the sheer mendacity of Trump’s justifications for his travel ban were not being challenged,” he explained, in a comment piece he penned for The Guardian.

“Time ticked on and Farage’s speaking time drew nearer. I decided I had to try to do something and, noticing the empty chair behind him, I made a sudden decision to grab a piece of paper and scrawl a simple message on it.”

Mr Dance admitted his behaviour had not been particularly “sophisticated” or “parliamentary”, but said he objected to Mr Farage’s argument that the travel ban was a matter for US sovereignty.

“We are not questioning the US’s sovereignty, we are questioning the morality,” he told The Guardian, adding that he was “fed up frankly with nationalist and populist messages being paraded around as if they were the solution to people’s problems”.

Mr Farage is allowed to make an uninterrupted three-minute speech ahead of debates in the EU parliament because he is co-president of the officially recognised Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) grouping. But Mr Dance said he was angry that the former Ukip leader so often appears to be the dominant British voice in the parliament.

Mr Farage said in his speech that the new US President was simply trying to protect his country from terrorists.

He then appeared to insult other MEPs, saying: “I’m sure as democrats you would all agree that we need to have an open dialogue with the newly elected most powerful man in the world. If you throw that rejection back in my face, then you prove yourselves to be the anti-democratic zealots that I always thought you were.”

He added: “It seems to me with all the anti-Trump rhetoric that is coming from everywhere, actually what we are hearing is the true nature of the European project, which is genuine anti-Americanism.

“Trump is motivated by protecting the United States of America from Islamic terrorism whereas what has happened in this room and in governments around Europe is that you have welcomed these people into your own homes.”

Mr Dance, who is Labour’s environment and climate change spokesperson in Europe as well as MEP for the UK capital, criticised how the response to a rise in right-wing populism “from many has been to fall over themselves to demonstrate the levels to which we understand this new direction and – terrifyingly – how we will acquiesce to it”.

He said he acted in parliament because it is time to stop and “call out lies where we see them”.

Nigel Farage joins 'Fishing for Leave' flotilla campaigning for Brexit







10 show all Nigel Farage joins 'Fishing for Leave' flotilla campaigning for Brexit

















1/10 A Fishing for Leave pro-Brexit "flotilla" makes its way along the River Thames in London PA

2/10 Boats from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group join a flotilla along the Thames River Getty Images

3/10 Supporters of the EU Remain camp attach banners to Tower Bridge as they await a flotilla of fishing boats campaiging for Brexit to pass under the bridge AFP/Getty Images

4/10 A Fishing for Leave pro-Brexit "flotilla" alongside HMS Belfast (left) as it makes its way along the River Thames PA

5/10 Bob Geldof (centre) on board a boat taking part in a pro-EU counter demonstration PA

6/10 A flotilla of fishing vessels campaigning to leave the European Union REUTERS

7/10 A boat from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group and smaller boats from the 'In' campaign join a flotilla along the Thames River Getty Images

8/10 A fishing boat campaiging for Brexit passes by the Tower of London AFP/Getty Images

9/10 A boat decked out in flags and banners from the 'Fishing for Leave' campaign group Getty Images

10/10 Fishing boats campaiging for Brexit pass under Tower Bridge AFP/Getty Images

“No jobs will be created, no industries saved, no community enhanced by scapegoating immigrants for our problems. It’s time to call out those whose diet of hate, division and suspicion will create nothing but misery and poverty,” he said.

The complaint against Mr Dance was submitted by Bill Etheridge, a Ukip MEP, who called his behaviour “pathetic and cowardly”.

Mr Dance told The Guardian: “Whatever the President and parliament decides, I am happy to accept the consequences.”