Game over! How to beat the 10% rise in the cost of your TV, phone and broadband

Millions of households who rely on a big telecoms firm to provide their home phone, broadband and TV packages are facing price rises of up to 10% in the coming weeks. Some commentators have described the increases as “unjustified and excessive”, given that wholesale costs have fallen and inflation is 1.6%. So what can you do about it? Both Sky and BT have announced they will be putting up prices in March and April respectively. Virgin Media traditionally puts up its prices in February, and it is expected to do so this year. Only under-fire TalkTalk, still trying to rebuild its reputation after the hacking scandal, has cut prices for new and existing customers – but only after it hiked bills at the end of last year. According to the media regulator Ofcom, wholesale phone and broadband costs – those charged by BT Openreach to suppliers – have fallen 25% over the past six years. But, as anyone who keenly checks their phone bills will have noticed, the charges imposed on customers have gone the other way, rising by 28% and 40% respectively. The telecoms firms seem to announce two price increases a year, safe in the knowledge that many households would probably rather go without water for a few days than lose internet access. BT announced a raft of increases from 2 April. It is also to begin charging £3.50 a month for BT Sport from August. Its standard broadband goes up 5.8% to £35.99 a month with landline included. Infinity 1 fibre broadband rises by £2.50 to £42.49. The popular unlimited anytime landline calls package goes up 50p to £8.99 a month. This used to cost £5 a couple of years ago. Landline calls to other landlines go up by 1p to 12p a minute; those to mobiles rise 1p to 16p. On 1 March, the standard price of line rental for all but its landline-only customers goes up from £17.40 a month to £18.99 – an 8.5% increase. Its call connection charge rises from 16.9p to 19p – a 12.4% increase, while the call charge rises by a similar amount to 12.54p a minute. Calls to mobiles are shooting up – from 11.5p a minute to 19.35p during the daytime, and to 14.25p at evenings and weekends. It says customers currently on some older “legacy products”, and benefiting from a lower price, will be brought into line with the current pricing structure. It hasn’t said anything yet, but usually mirrors BT and Sky. Home phone, broadband and TV customers saw two hikes in 2016 – prices rose by an average of 5.4% in February and 5.1% in November. It already charges £19 a month for its landline.  It last put up its broadband prices on 4 November but this week it said it was reducing the price of its broadband and fibre packages for those who sign up for two years, and it is promising not to raise prices for the duration of the contract. Its basic broadband/landline package goes down to £20 a month (down from £23) – but you have to sign up for two years.  It’s not just the biggies that have whacked customers. Plusnet, owned by BT, hiked its prices for a second consecutive year in 2016 – with some customers paying up to £30 a year more since 1 September. The Post Office also pushed through increases last September. EE’s line rental charges increased last week by an average £1.50 a month, and out-of-bundle connection charges for calls to UK landlines and mobiles went up 3p, to 20p. Dan Howdle, consumer telecoms expert at Cable.co.uk, suggests customers are increasingly subsidising Premier League footballers as they seek to recoup the massive outlay they have paid out to acquire the television rights. “Wholesale costs have come down massively over the past six years but, rather than fall, prices paid by consumers have done the opposite – it’s staggering. “These price hikes are completely unjustified, and look excessive in contrast to current rates of inflation. Many customers, quite rightly, will be fuming.” He says the Ofcom rules require the big telecoms firms to give customers 30 days to leave penalty-free, and if you are unhappy you should vote with your feet and switch supplier. “There are several small providers offering to undercut the big-names, and all our research shows that they tend to have happier customers. Switching is easy, and you tend not to lose broadband access for more than a few minutes. The only thing that changes is the size of the bill,” he adds.  Faced with the increases, consumers have two choices: stay with their existing provider and negotiate a lower price, or switch supplier. Sky is particularly open to haggling , according to MoneySavingExpert.com - 87% of its users recently reported being able to negotiate a better deal. Tell the company you want to leave and get put through to the retentions department. BT and the other retention departments will also offer a deal.  If you want to get away from the big suppliers, one firm stands out: energy firm SSE. Its Everyday Broadband and Talk Anytime package offers standard (up to 17 Mbps, unlimited) broadband, home phone with anytime calls to other landlines and 20 international destinations – all for £21.75 a month. There is even free internet protection for the term of the 18-month contract. Users have to have a BT Openreach line (90% of the UK does), not a Virgin Media line, in order to get this deal. The equipment is free and the company’s call centres are in the UK, meaning no calls abroad in the event of a problem. SSE scores very well in customer satisfaction surveys, says Howdle. Most UK telecoms customers are paying more than double the SSE rate for the exact same service. If you are one of the millions of households who now pay £100-plus a month for a big TV, phone and broadband bundle, do you really want to be spending £1,200 a year for media services you barely use? According to Freesat, a basic Sky package, topped up with sports channels, was £35 a month in 2010. Today the same package will cost £49.50 – that’s a 41% increase. Sky’s top-end “Complete Bundle”, which also includes movie channels and sports, has risen by 65%, jumping from £48.50 in 2010 to £80 in 2017. Once the phone and internet are added, many households are paying at least £100 a month. The TV offering is incredible in its scope, but how much of it actually gets watched? Sports fans have traditionally clung to Sky, but there is a halfway house. Take up BT’s basic broadband as a new customer at £33 a month. Add BT Sport (free for three months) at £5, and get a Netflix account (from £5.99) and you’ve halved the price. BT offers plenty of Premiership football, a lot of rugby, and a host of other sports. Cricket has, perhaps, been its one big weakness. Topics  Telecoms   BT   Telecommunications industry   BT Sport   BT TV     Sky Sports   Television industry   Sky plc   Virgin Media   Internet   Broadband

Millions of households who rely on a big telecoms firm to provide their home phone, broadband and TV packages are facing price rises of up to 10% in the coming weeks. Some commentators have described the increases as “unjustified and excessive”, given that wholesale costs have fallen and inflation is 1.6%. So what can you do about it?

Both Sky and BT have announced they will be putting up prices in March and April respectively. Virgin Media traditionally puts up its prices in February, and it is expected to do so this year. Only under-fire TalkTalk, still trying to rebuild its reputation after the hacking scandal, has cut prices for new and existing customers – but only after it hiked bills at the end of last year.

According to the media regulator Ofcom, wholesale phone and broadband costs – those charged by BT Openreach to suppliers – have fallen 25% over the past six years. But, as anyone who keenly checks their phone bills will have noticed, the charges imposed on customers have gone the other way, rising by 28% and 40% respectively.

The telecoms firms seem to announce two price increases a year, safe in the knowledge that many households would probably rather go without water for a few days than lose internet access.

Who’s doing what? BT announced a raft of increases from 2 April. It is also to begin charging £3.50 a month for BT Sport from August. Its standard broadband goes up 5.8% to £35.99 a month with landline included.

Infinity 1 fibre broadband rises by £2.50 to £42.49.

The popular unlimited anytime landline calls package goes up 50p to £8.99 a month. This used to cost £5 a couple of years ago. Landline calls to other landlines go up by 1p to 12p a minute; those to mobiles rise 1p to 16p.

And Sky? On 1 March, the standard price of line rental for all but its landline-only customers goes up from £17.40 a month to £18.99 – an 8.5% increase. Its call connection charge rises from 16.9p to 19p – a 12.4% increase, while the call charge rises by a similar amount to 12.54p a minute. Calls to mobiles are shooting up – from 11.5p a minute to 19.35p during the daytime, and to 14.25p at evenings and weekends.

It says customers currently on some older “legacy products”, and benefiting from a lower price, will be brought into line with the current pricing structure.

What about Virgin? It hasn’t said anything yet, but usually mirrors BT and Sky. Home phone, broadband and TV customers saw two hikes in 2016 – prices rose by an average of 5.4% in February and 5.1% in November. It already charges £19 a month for its landline.

And TalkTalk? It last put up its broadband prices on 4 November but this week it said it was reducing the price of its broadband and fibre packages for those who sign up for two years, and it is promising not to raise prices for the duration of the contract. Its basic broadband/landline package goes down to £20 a month (down from £23) – but you have to sign up for two years.

The rest It’s not just the biggies that have whacked customers. Plusnet, owned by BT, hiked its prices for a second consecutive year in 2016 – with some customers paying up to £30 a year more since 1 September. The Post Office also pushed through increases last September. EE’s line rental charges increased last week by an average £1.50 a month, and out-of-bundle connection charges for calls to UK landlines and mobiles went up 3p, to 20p.

So what can you do about it? Dan Howdle, consumer telecoms expert at Cable.co.uk, suggests customers are increasingly subsidising Premier League footballers as they seek to recoup the massive outlay they have paid out to acquire the television rights.



“Wholesale costs have come down massively over the past six years but, rather than fall, prices paid by consumers have done the opposite – it’s staggering.

“These price hikes are completely unjustified, and look excessive in contrast to current rates of inflation. Many customers, quite rightly, will be fuming.”

He says the Ofcom rules require the big telecoms firms to give customers 30 days to leave penalty-free, and if you are unhappy you should vote with your feet and switch supplier.

“There are several small providers offering to undercut the big-names, and all our research shows that they tend to have happier customers. Switching is easy, and you tend not to lose broadband access for more than a few minutes. The only thing that changes is the size of the bill,” he adds.

The alternatives Faced with the increases, consumers have two choices: stay with their existing provider and negotiate a lower price, or switch supplier. Sky is particularly open to haggling, according to MoneySavingExpert.com - 87% of its users recently reported being able to negotiate a better deal. Tell the company you want to leave and get put through to the retentions department.

BT fires opening shot at Sky in new Champions League rights battle Read more

BT and the other retention departments will also offer a deal.

The stand-out deal If you want to get away from the big suppliers, one firm stands out: energy firm SSE.

Its Everyday Broadband and Talk Anytime package offers standard (up to 17 Mbps, unlimited) broadband, home phone with anytime calls to other landlines and 20 international destinations – all for £21.75 a month. There is even free internet protection for the term of the 18-month contract.

Users have to have a BT Openreach line (90% of the UK does), not a Virgin Media line, in order to get this deal.

The equipment is free and the company’s call centres are in the UK, meaning no calls abroad in the event of a problem. SSE scores very well in customer satisfaction surveys, says Howdle.

Most UK telecoms customers are paying more than double the SSE rate for the exact same service.

Cut your bills in half





If you are one of the millions of households who now pay £100-plus a month for a big TV, phone and broadband bundle, do you really want to be spending £1,200 a year for media services you barely use?

According to Freesat, a basic Sky package, topped up with sports channels, was £35 a month in 2010. Today the same package will cost £49.50 – that’s a 41% increase.

Sky’s top-end “Complete Bundle”, which also includes movie channels and sports, has risen by 65%, jumping from £48.50 in 2010 to £80 in 2017. Once the phone and internet are added, many households are paying at least £100 a month. The TV offering is incredible in its scope, but how much of it actually gets watched?

Sports fans have traditionally clung to Sky, but there is a halfway house. Take up BT’s basic broadband as a new customer at £33 a month. Add BT Sport (free for three months) at £5, and get a Netflix account (from £5.99) and you’ve halved the price. BT offers plenty of Premiership football, a lot of rugby, and a host of other sports. Cricket has, perhaps, been its one big weakness.