Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus Drop Ivanka Trump's Fashion Collection, Citing Brand's Performance
Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line
Shares               Yet another department store chain has announced it will no longer sell Ivanka Trump's eponymous clothing and accessories line. On Thursday, Seattle-based Nordstrom said it would no longer carry the collection. Then on Friday, Dallas-based Neiman Marcus also said it was dropping the line. "We've got thousands of brands –- more than 2,000 offered on the site alone," said a spokesperson for the Nordstrom, which has nearly 350 stores under various banners across North America. "Reviewing their merit and making edits is part of the regular rhythm of our business. Each year we cut about 10 percent and refresh our assortment with about the same amount. In this case, based on the brand’s performance we’ve decided not to buy it for this season." And a spokesperson for Neiman Marcus, which operates 42 stores, said in a statement, "Neiman Marcus has a very small Ivanka Trump precious jewelry business which is comprised 100 percent of consigned merchandise (merchandise owned by the vendor). Based on productivity we continuously assess whether our brands are carried in stores, on our website, or both." The decisions to no longer carry the line follows a grassroots campaign spearheaded by foes of Donald Trump called "Grab Your Wallet," which called for a boycott of retailers that carried Ivanka Trump or Donald Trump merchandise. In November, Nordstrom took to Twitter to respond to a shopper's request to stop selling the brand. "We hope that offering a vendor's products isn't misunderstood as us taking a political position; we're not," the retailer tweeted. "We recognize our customers can make choices about what they purchase based on personal views & we'll continue to give them options."  @SheWhoVotes our customers can make choices about what they purchase based on personal views & we'll continue to give them options. (2/2)  On Friday, the Nordstrom website only featured four pairs of shoes from the Ivanka Trump collection. The Neiman Marcus website had no Ivanka Trump products. Other retailers, including Macy's, Zappos.com, Saks Fith Avenue and Bon-Ton, still carry the collection. Shares                  Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line   Trump Claims US Murder Rate 'Highest' in '47 Years' Despite FBI Data Showing Otherwise   Hearing Concludes on Challenge to Trump's Controversial Immigration Order   Government's Own Warnings to Law Enforcement Often Cite Media Reports Trump Says Don’t Exist   Senate Confirmation Hearings: Everything to Know   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Homeland Security Secretary Defends Travel Ban but Regrets Quick Rollout   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Lawmakers' Phones Ring off the Hook Over Trump's Education Pick   The Note: A Day of Tests for Trump   2 Other Times Kellyanne Conway Referred to Bowling Green 'Massacre' or 'Attack'   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeastern Louisiana   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump

Yet another department store chain has announced it will no longer sell Ivanka Trump's eponymous clothing and accessories line.

On Thursday, Seattle-based Nordstrom said it would no longer carry the collection. Then on Friday, Dallas-based Neiman Marcus also said it was dropping the line.

"We've got thousands of brands –- more than 2,000 offered on the site alone," said a spokesperson for the Nordstrom, which has nearly 350 stores under various banners across North America. "Reviewing their merit and making edits is part of the regular rhythm of our business. Each year we cut about 10 percent and refresh our assortment with about the same amount. In this case, based on the brand’s performance we’ve decided not to buy it for this season."

And a spokesperson for Neiman Marcus, which operates 42 stores, said in a statement, "Neiman Marcus has a very small Ivanka Trump precious jewelry business which is comprised 100 percent of consigned merchandise (merchandise owned by the vendor). Based on productivity we continuously assess whether our brands are carried in stores, on our website, or both."

The decisions to no longer carry the line follows a grassroots campaign spearheaded by foes of Donald Trump called "Grab Your Wallet," which called for a boycott of retailers that carried Ivanka Trump or Donald Trump merchandise.

In November, Nordstrom took to Twitter to respond to a shopper's request to stop selling the brand.

"We hope that offering a vendor's products isn't misunderstood as us taking a political position; we're not," the retailer tweeted. "We recognize our customers can make choices about what they purchase based on personal views & we'll continue to give them options."

@SheWhoVotes our customers can make choices about what they purchase based on personal views & we'll continue to give them options. (2/2) — Nordstrom (@Nordstrom) November 2, 2016

On Friday, the Nordstrom website only featured four pairs of shoes from the Ivanka Trump collection. The Neiman Marcus website had no Ivanka Trump products. Other retailers, including Macy's, Zappos.com, Saks Fith Avenue and Bon-Ton, still carry the collection.