32 Pictures That Will Take You Back To When Life Was So Damn Simple
32 Pictures That Will Take You Back To When Life Was So Damn Simple
Back when your biggest problem was figuring out what movie to watch: And turning dow the TV before you saw this: Back when your future was easy to predict: So, so easy: Back when the worst thing that could happen to your was stepping on one of these…or a LEGO: When you’d wait what seemed like hours just to find the perfect show: Or just so you could see this guy spring into action: Back when the most beautiful sight was an orange tape: Back when your diet consisted mainly of these: Complete with some super smelly hose water: Back when this was the worst thing you could see: And when you never had to worry about battery life: When a simple rhyme determined your fate: And some glue provided entertainment for hours: Back when a fan made you a professional singer: And these made you an artist: And some WordArt made you the BOSS: Back when all you had to worry about was some skipping: Or dropping this grenade: Or the health of your ankles: Back when the hardest part of your day was pushing all of these down at the same time: Or trying to grab as many of these as you could: Back when seeing this meant you were about to have the best day ever: Or seeing this meant you were in for a treat: And this… don’t get me started on this: Not to mention hearing “HEADS DOWN, THUMBS UP!” Back when these toys were all you need in the world: And a fort was the perfect place to put them: Back when there was nothing better than kickin’ back in some inflatable furniture: Putting on some witch fingers: Picking up one of these classics: And munching on a sweet, sweet Cosmic Brownie: But, hey, maybe it can be simple again:   25 '80s Toys That'll Make You Say "Holy Shit! I Forgot...    28 Amazing Pictures From The Golden Age Of Airlines...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.