18 Wikipedia Pages That’ll Make You Say "Fuck, That’s Interesting"
18 Wikipedia Pages That'll Make You Say "Fuck, That's Interesting"
The Coral Castle This bizarre megalithic structure is the work of Florida man Edward Leedskalnin, who built the entire complex on his own in the 1930s. Leedskalnin claimed to have invented a “perpetual motion holder” that allowed him to move the huge stones using levitation. A few teenagers claimed to have seen him working, and said that the vast blocks of coral had bobbed around “like hydrogen balloons”. Whoa.  Cicada 3301 Cicada 3301 is a deeply strange and cryptic organisation that has been posting complex and eerie puzzles on the internet since 2012. It has been called “the most elaborate and mysterious puzzle of the internet age”, and quite a lot of people think it might be the work of the NSA or CIA; an attempt to recruit members of the public to work on codebreaking and hacking projects. Cool.  The Nibiru Cataclysm Many conspiracy theorists believe our solar system is hiding a 10th planet called Nibiru, that it’s about to collide with Earth and kill us all, and that NASA is covering it all up (which scientists deny). In 2012, Professor Brian Cox tweeted “if anyone else asks me about that imaginary bullshit planet I will slap them around their irrational heads with Newton’s Principia.” Bet it’s true and he’s part of the cover-up.  Utsuro-bune Utsuro-bune literally means “hollow ship” in Japanese, and describes a strange vessel made from polished brass and crystal that washed ashore in 1803 on the eastern coast of Japan. Local fishermen found an attractive, strange-looking young woman inside the ship, but she didn’t speak any language they had ever heard. Ufologists believe it to be an early close encounter with an alien species.  The Lizard Man of Scape Ore Swamp The creature in this photo is allegedly the “Lizard Man” of Scape Ore Swamp in South Carolina, which is said to live in the surrounding swampland and also sewers. It’s described as being around 7 feet tall, bipedal, and scaly, with three long fingers on each hand. It’s alleged to have attacked cars, leaving long gouges in the metal, and let’s be honest: It’s definitely the Demogorgon from .  The Vela Incident On 22 September 1979, an orbiting American Vela satellite spotted an unidentified “double flash” of light near the remote Prince Edward Islands off the coast of Antarctica. No one knows what the light was, but double flash lights are a common characteristic of nuclear tests. But who was testing a nuclear bomb, and why? To this day, no national governments have ever owned up to it. Weird.  Trepanning en.wikipedia.org / Creative Commons en.wikipedia.org / Creative Commons This grisly practice has been in use since ancient times, and involves drilling a round hole in a patient’s skull. Cave paintings from the Neolithic period show that people believed it would cure epileptic seizures, migraines, and mental disorders by letting out the “evil spirits” inside. Surprisingly, quite a few people survived the procedure and went on to live full, albeit draughty, lives with a hole in their head.  The 1958 Lituya Bay megatsunami On July 9 1958, Lituya Bay in Alaska was hit by a massive earthquake, sending 30 million cubic metres of rock plunging into the sea and creating the largest tsunami in recorded history: a skyscraper of water over 30 metres high that swept across the inlet. A local couple (the Swansons) and their sailboat (the ) were caught up in the tsunami, managed to ride the wave , and lived to tell the tale.  The Demon Core This spherical core of plutonium was kept at New Mexico’s Los Alamos laboratory in 1945 and was responsible for the deaths of two scientists. The core was made up of two hemispheres that had to be kept separate, as allowing them to touch would form a critical mass. In a display of bravado, physicist Louis Slotin decided to use a thin screwdriver blade to wiggle them around. As you can imagine, it didn’t go well.  Toynbee tiles These baffling, handmade tiles and plaques have been cropping up around the US and South America since the 1980s, and no one knows who is making them, or why. They’re the size of a car licence plate, and usually say something like “In movie resurrect dead on planet Jupiter”, a reference to the 1970s Stanley Kubrick/Arthur C. Clarke film, although a few feature political statements too.  The Yonaguni Monument The Yonaguni Monument is a series of pyramidical underwater ruins and ledges off the coast of Japan that some people believe are the remains of an ancient culture. The monument is made up of straight walls, columns, platforms, and a carving of a human-like face, but the Japanese government don’t believe that it’s some kind of Atlantis-style city , and refuse to protect it.  The 1883 eruption of Krakatoa This huge eruption in Indonesia was one of the most destructive volcanic events in history, killing 36,000 people. The volcano first erupted, then underwent a cataclysmic explosion; the noise of the explosion was so loud (180 dB) that it was heard 2,000 miles away in Perth, Australia. Afterwards, it was discovered that the entire island of Krakatoa had been almost completely obliterated.  The Radium Girls en.wikipedia.org (Radium_Girls)_advertisement,_1921, _retouched.png / Creative Commons _retouched.png ">en.wikipedia.org

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.