Ranveer Singh And Akshay Kumar Jamming On 'Hookah Baar' Is Absolutely Entertaining And Unmissable!
Ranveer Singh And Akshay Kumar Crooning Hookah Baar Is Absolutely Entertaining!
Ranveer Singh And Akshay Kumar Jamming On 'Hookah Baar' Is Absolutely Entertaining And Unmissable! Ranveer Singh is a die-hard fan of Akshay Kumar and he has time and again expressed the same on various occasions. From sharing throwback photo with Akshay to matching steps with him at award shows, when two powerhouses of talent come together, the result has always been highly entertaining. While Ranveer is an enthu-cutlet and is always hopping and cracking jokes, Akshay is subtle, funny and graceful and together they make an absolutely entertaining combo! A few days ago, many B-Town celebrities attended the Big Fat Indian Wedding of Keshav Reddy (son of GVK's vice-chairman Sanjay Reddy) and Veena Reddy. Many A-listers from Bollywood including Akshay Kumar, Ranveer Singh, Jacqueline Fernandez, Shilpa Shetty and Sridevi attended the event. And now a video that has surfaced online has Ranveer and Akshay performing at the Sangeet! And wait, it's not an ordinary performance! Both are seen jamming on Akshay Kumar's popular track Hookah Bar and the result is something that definitely leaves us wanting for more. Video: @akshaykumar sir with @RanveerOfficial signing #hookahbar song at a weeding in Hyderabad recently. JOLLY VS POWERFUL IN 11 DAYS pic.twitter.com/S8luH2mad1

Ranveer Singh is a die-hard fan of Akshay Kumar and he has time and again expressed the same on various occasions.

Instagram/Ranveer Singh

From sharing throwback photo with Akshay to matching steps with him at award shows, when two powerhouses of talent come together, the result has always been highly entertaining.

Twitter

While Ranveer is an enthu-cutlet and is always hopping and cracking jokes, Akshay is subtle, funny and graceful and together they make an absolutely entertaining combo! A few days ago, many B-Town celebrities attended the Big Fat Indian Wedding of Keshav Reddy (son of GVK's vice-chairman Sanjay Reddy) and Veena Reddy.

BCCL

Many A-listers from Bollywood including Akshay Kumar, Ranveer Singh, Jacqueline Fernandez, Shilpa Shetty and Sridevi attended the event. And now a video that has surfaced online has Ranveer and Akshay performing at the Sangeet! And wait, it's not an ordinary performance!

Both are seen jamming on Akshay Kumar's popular track Hookah Bar and the result is something that definitely leaves us wanting for more.

Video: @akshaykumar sir with @RanveerOfficial signing #hookahbar song at a weeding in Hyderabad recently.

JOLLY VS POWERFUL IN 11 DAYS pic.twitter.com/S8luH2mad1 — Akshay Kumar 24x7 (@Akkistaan) January 30, 2017

Someone sign them up together for a film. Please!