Iran: If Enemies Do Wrong, Missiles Will Come Down on Them
Iran: If Enemies Do Wrong, Missiles Will Come Down on Them
Shares                Iran's missiles will come down on the country's enemies if they do wrong, a senior commander in Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard was quoted as saying in a Saturday report from semi-official Tasnim news agency. Gen. Amir Ali Hajizadeh, chief of the Guard's airspace division, said: "If the enemy does not walk the line, our missiles come down on them." Hajizadeh's comments came during a Revolutionary Guard military exercise aimed at testing its missile and radar systems. The exercise was taking place in a 35,000-square-kilometer (13,515-square-mile) area in Semnan province in northern Iran. The exercise comes a day after U.S. President Donald Trump's administration imposed sanctions on Iran in response to a recent missile test. The sanctions target more than two dozen people and companies from the Persian Gulf to China . Tasnim said all the equipment used in the war game, including all defensive systems, radars, command centers and ground-to-air missile equipment, are designed and manufactured by Iranian scientists. Iranian English language Press TV reported that Iran Senior Vice President Ishaq Jahangiri dismissed what he called recent anti-Iran posturing by the U.S. He said "threadbare" accusations are aimed by Washington at scaring away investors. "The Iranian nation and authorities do not attach the least value to these remarks," he said. Iran insists its missile test was only for defensive purposes and not a violation of the U.N. Security Council 2231 resolution or the nuclear deal with Western powers. Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted Friday that his country was "unmoved by threats as we derive security for our people. We'll never initiate war, but we can only rely on our own means of defense." Shares                  Iran: If Enemies Do Wrong, Missiles Will Come Down on Them   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says   Amnesty: As Many as 13,000 Hanged in Syria Prison Since 2011   Dakota Access Pipeline Decision Could Come This Week: Army Corps of Engineers   Appeals Court Weighs Trump Ban as Travelers Arrive to Tears   NTSB Set to Release Cause of Fiery North Dakota Train Crash   Kansas Woman Runs 1st Full Mile Since Leg Amputation   Teen Admits Killing Florida Woman in London Knife Rampage   Palestinians: World Should Punish Israel for Settlement Law   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   At $250M, Los Angeles Home Most Expensive Listed in US

Iran's missiles will come down on the country's enemies if they do wrong, a senior commander in Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard was quoted as saying in a Saturday report from semi-official Tasnim news agency.

Gen. Amir Ali Hajizadeh, chief of the Guard's airspace division, said: "If the enemy does not walk the line, our missiles come down on them."

Hajizadeh's comments came during a Revolutionary Guard military exercise aimed at testing its missile and radar systems. The exercise was taking place in a 35,000-square-kilometer (13,515-square-mile) area in Semnan province in northern Iran.

The exercise comes a day after U.S. President Donald Trump's administration imposed sanctions on Iran in response to a recent missile test. The sanctions target more than two dozen people and companies from the Persian Gulf to China.

Tasnim said all the equipment used in the war game, including all defensive systems, radars, command centers and ground-to-air missile equipment, are designed and manufactured by Iranian scientists.

Iranian English language Press TV reported that Iran Senior Vice President Ishaq Jahangiri dismissed what he called recent anti-Iran posturing by the U.S. He said "threadbare" accusations are aimed by Washington at scaring away investors.

"The Iranian nation and authorities do not attach the least value to these remarks," he said.

Iran insists its missile test was only for defensive purposes and not a violation of the U.N. Security Council 2231 resolution or the nuclear deal with Western powers.

Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted Friday that his country was "unmoved by threats as we derive security for our people. We'll never initiate war, but we can only rely on our own means of defense."