Floella Benjamin: ‘The Queen gave me a masterclass in people skills’

orn in Trinidad, Floella Benjamin , 67, came to England aged 10. She appeared in several West End shows, including Jesus Christ Superstar, before becoming a household name in the 1970s as a TV presenter on Play School and Play Away . In 2004 she won a British Academy Children’s Award for her contribution to children’s TV. She is a campaigner for children’s rights, and was made a life peer in 2010. Her bestselling memoir, Coming To England , has recently been republished. She is married with two children, and lives in London. Happiness is like an elusive butterfly: whenever it comes my way, I grab it. That the modern world will destroy the innocence of childhood. In Trinidad, when I was three: my mum was expecting my baby brother and she sent us out to look for the stork. Then I heard the baby crying and thought, “How did that stork get here? I didn’t see it!” The Queen. I once spent two hours with her, and she knows something about everything. It was a masterclass in people skills. Indecision. No, wait a minute… Greed, selfishness, hate. High interest rates for my savings. Naomie Harris or Lupita Nyong’o . I sing with Ken Follett ’s band, Damn Right I Got The Blues . Angel by Thierry Mugler, or freesias. A teacher. Teachers can change lives. When I came to Britain in 1960, people said, “We don’t want your kind.” Recently someone said, “You’ve only got to where you are because you’re black.” And I said, “Read my CV. You only got to where you are because you are white. Now it’s my turn.” Everything. I remember Princess Diana saying to my mum, “Oh, Mrs Benjamin, I wish you were my mum.” A boy called Norman. When I came to England, I didn’t know what kiss-chase was, and Norman kissed me on the lips, so I gave him a black eye. My husband, Keith. We are as one. When I make speeches in the Lords, I always say “childhood lasts a lifetime”. So let’s do it right, with love and passion. There is no time when black people had a good time, so why go back? Smile by Nat King Cole . Never give up, and never buy anything you don’t really need. On top of a snow-capped mountain. I can’t ride a bike. Topics  Children   Floella Benjamin

Born in Trinidad, Floella Benjamin, 67, came to England aged 10. She appeared in several West End shows, including Jesus Christ Superstar, before becoming a household name in the 1970s as a TV presenter on Play School and Play Away. In 2004 she won a British Academy Children’s Award for her contribution to children’s TV. She is a campaigner for children’s rights, and was made a life peer in 2010. Her bestselling memoir, Coming To England, has recently been republished. She is married with two children, and lives in London.

When were you happiest?

Happiness is like an elusive butterfly: whenever it comes my way, I grab it.

What is your greatest fear?

That the modern world will destroy the innocence of childhood.

What is your earliest memory?

In Trinidad, when I was three: my mum was expecting my baby brother and she sent us out to look for the stork. Then I heard the baby crying and thought, “How did that stork get here? I didn’t see it!”

Who do you most admire, and why?

The Queen. I once spent two hours with her, and she knows something about everything. It was a masterclass in people skills.

What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?

Indecision. No, wait a minute…

What is the trait you most deplore in others?

Greed, selfishness, hate.

If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?

High interest rates for my savings.

Who would play you in the film of your life?

Naomie Harris or Lupita Nyong’o.

How do you relax?

I sing with Ken Follett’s band, Damn Right I Got The Blues.

What is your favourite smell?

Angel by Thierry Mugler, or freesias.

What did you want to be when you were growing up?

A teacher. Teachers can change lives.

What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?

When I came to Britain in 1960, people said, “We don’t want your kind.” Recently someone said, “You’ve only got to where you are because you’re black.” And I said, “Read my CV. You only got to where you are because you are white. Now it’s my turn.”

MC Novelist: ‘The worst thing anyone’s said to me? Some dude dissing my trainers’ Read more

What do you owe your parents?

Everything. I remember Princess Diana saying to my mum, “Oh, Mrs Benjamin, I wish you were my mum.”

To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?

A boy called Norman. When I came to England, I didn’t know what kiss-chase was, and Norman kissed me on the lips, so I gave him a black eye.

What or who is the greatest love of your life?

My husband, Keith. We are as one.

Which words or phrases do you most overuse?

When I make speeches in the Lords, I always say “childhood lasts a lifetime”. So let’s do it right, with love and passion.

If you could go back in time, where would you go?

There is no time when black people had a good time, so why go back?

What song would you like played at your funeral?

Smile by Nat King Cole.

What is the most important lesson life has taught you?

Never give up, and never buy anything you don’t really need.

Where would you most like to be right now?

On top of a snow-capped mountain.

Tell us a secret

I can’t ride a bike.