The ultimate app guide to Super Bowl Sunday
The ultimate app guide to Super Bowl Sunday
It's that time of year again — when sports bars hit full capacity and nail-biting tension runs high. If you're looking to forget about politics and focus on the Super Bowl , then you might need a few apps on the sidelines. SEE ALSO: Budweiser turned a classic '90s Super Bowl ad into a Snapchat game From helping you find the perfect beer with your appetizers to letting you watch muted TV in a public place, these apps will help you maximize your Super Bowl experience . Flipp Image:  flipp corporation Whether you're just having friends over or are planning to cook up a feast during the game, your grocery bill can add up quick. Save some cash by using good old-fashioned coupons. Flipp collects the coupons you normally get in circulars and lets you access them all on your smartphone. Simply enter your zip code, identify the coupons you want to use and then 'clip' it for your use in-store. Free: iOS and Android  Football Squares Plus Image:  football squares plus Super Bowl watch party hosts: This one’s for you. If your party is playing Squares, it can be a pain to print out and hand out sheets. Football Squares Plus is a simple and useful app that helps make square-selecting easier. The app makes it easy to set up the games and track your scores. If you want to use printed sheets, the app also has templates to help you design them. If you want to get really high tech, your guests can also use the companion app Squares Buyer For Football Squares Plus . Free: iOS  Fox Sports Go Image:  FOX SPORTS interactive If you don't have cable and really don't want to brave the crowds at sports bars, you can stream the game for free via the Fox Sports Go app on the following devices: iOS, Android, Window and Amazon tablets, Apple TV, Android TV, Google Chromecast, Roku, Xbox One and Fire TV. Usually you'll be prompted to give your cable log-in, but for this special occasion Fox Sports is letting you access the game without one. If you're a Verizon Wireless customer, you'll also be able to stream the game via the NFL Mobile app for free. Free: iOS and Android  Fox Sports VR Image:  fox sports With Fox Sports VR, you can enjoy the game in a virtual suite with your friends anywhere in the world. Compatible with headsets like Google Cardboard and Samsung GearVR, you get the thrill of being in the stadium for a fraction of the price. For the Super Bowl, Fox will be uploading the 20 “most exciting” highlights of the game near instantly, including four per quarter and highlights from pre-and-post game coverage. Note that you still need a cable subscription to watch on the Fox Sports VR app. Free , , NYT Cooking Image:  the new york times co Cooking app is your perfect kitchen companion. You can use it for recipe recommendations, How-To videos, recipe notes and more. It’s perfect to have by your side this weekend as you prep your party menu or the standout dish you’re bringing to the potluck. Free: iOS  PairWise Image:  Pairwise Having the right beer with your food is crucial, even more so during the big game. PairWise gives you recommendations on what beer goes with your food, as well as food that goes well with the beer you want to drink. There’s 170 beer styles, over 1,300 foods and almost 58,000 beers represented. Free: iOS and Android Tunity  Image:  tunity Whether you’re at a noisy bar and can’t hear the commentary or you’re that guy watching the lone TV at a golf tournament, Tunity is the app for you. This magical app allows you to hear any muted, live TV’s audio on your phone. All you have to do is scan the TV using your phone camera, and then Tunity locates the channel and streams the audio. This impressive and seamless app is also great year-round for bars, gyms, airports, watching late night TV when others are asleep and more. Free: iOS and Android BONUS: This wheelchair is controlled using only the tip of your tongue

It's that time of year again — when sports bars hit full capacity and nail-biting tension runs high. If you're looking to forget about politics and focus on the Super Bowl, then you might need a few apps on the sidelines.

From helping you find the perfect beer with your appetizers to letting you watch muted TV in a public place, these apps will help you maximize your Super Bowl experience.





Flipp

Image: flipp corporation

Whether you're just having friends over or are planning to cook up a feast during the game, your grocery bill can add up quick.

Save some cash by using good old-fashioned coupons. Flipp collects the coupons you normally get in circulars and lets you access them all on your smartphone. Simply enter your zip code, identify the coupons you want to use and then 'clip' it for your use in-store.

Free: iOS and Android

Football Squares Plus

Image: football squares plus

Super Bowl watch party hosts: This one’s for you. If your party is playing Squares, it can be a pain to print out and hand out sheets. Football Squares Plus is a simple and useful app that helps make square-selecting easier. The app makes it easy to set up the games and track your scores. If you want to use printed sheets, the app also has templates to help you design them. If you want to get really high tech, your guests can also use the companion app Squares Buyer For Football Squares Plus.

Free: iOS

Fox Sports Go

Image: FOX SPORTS interactive

If you don't have cable and really don't want to brave the crowds at sports bars, you can stream the game for free via the Fox Sports Go app on the following devices: iOS, Android, Window and Amazon tablets, Apple TV, Android TV, Google Chromecast, Roku, Xbox One and Fire TV. Usually you'll be prompted to give your cable log-in, but for this special occasion Fox Sports is letting you access the game without one.

If you're a Verizon Wireless customer, you'll also be able to stream the game via the NFL Mobile app for free.

Free: iOS and Android

Fox Sports VR

Image: fox sports

With Fox Sports VR, you can enjoy the game in a virtual suite with your friends anywhere in the world. Compatible with headsets like Google Cardboard and Samsung GearVR, you get the thrill of being in the stadium for a fraction of the price. For the Super Bowl, Fox will be uploading the 20 “most exciting” highlights of the game near instantly, including four per quarter and highlights from pre-and-post game coverage. Note that you still need a cable subscription to watch on the Fox Sports VR app.

Free: iOS , Android , Gear VR

NYT Cooking

Image: the new york times co

The New York Times’ Cooking app is your perfect kitchen companion. You can use it for recipe recommendations, How-To videos, recipe notes and more. It’s perfect to have by your side this weekend as you prep your party menu or the standout dish you’re bringing to the potluck.

Free: iOS

PairWise

Image: Pairwise

Having the right beer with your food is crucial, even more so during the big game. PairWise gives you recommendations on what beer goes with your food, as well as food that goes well with the beer you want to drink. There’s 170 beer styles, over 1,300 foods and almost 58,000 beers represented.

Free: iOS and Android

Tunity



Image: tunity

Whether you’re at a noisy bar and can’t hear the commentary or you’re that guy watching the lone TV at a golf tournament, Tunity is the app for you. This magical app allows you to hear any muted, live TV’s audio on your phone. All you have to do is scan the TV using your phone camera, and then Tunity locates the channel and streams the audio. This impressive and seamless app is also great year-round for bars, gyms, airports, watching late night TV when others are asleep and more.

Free: iOS and Android