The Happiest Cities To Work In Right Now
The Happiest Cities To Work In Right Now
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeff Kauflin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Credit: Shutterstock The 10 Happiest Cities To Work In Right Now    Trending on {{channel_name}}

We’ve all been told it’s important to find work you love, but it’s also essential to find a city you’re fond of. CareerBliss, a website with company reviews and job postings, released its list of the happiest cities to work in. It mined 20,000 employee reviews and only included cities that received 50 or more reviews over the past year. To gauge happiness, the survey covered topics like compensation, work environment and employees’ relationships with their managers. Full methodology details are available here.

To see the happiest cities to work for right now, view the gallery below.

Santa Clara, California ranked first. The sunny city of 126,215 people is home to several big-name companies. Computer chipmaker Intel, 107,300 employees strong, is based in Santa Clara, as is Applied Materials, which manufactures chips and display screens. Next door to Santa Clara is San Jose, the city that ranked second on CareerBliss’ list and is home to tech firms like Cisco, Adobe and eBay.

Portland, Oregon ranked third. With more than a half-million residents and a reputation for being hip, the city boasts some enormous companies. Nike’s headquarters is a 30-minute drive away in nearby Beaverton. As of 2015, Nike had nine of the top 10 bestselling sneakers in the country. (Thirty years after Air Jordans’ original debut in 1985, the iconic sneakers were still the number-one seller.) Precision Castparts, a manufacturer of aircraft components, has its headquarters in Portland. It has 30,500 employees and was acquired by Berkshire Hathaway last year for $37 billion. Apparel company Columbia Sportswear, famous for its winter coats, also calls Portland home.

Cincinnati, Ohio was named the fourth-happiest place to work. Nearly 300,000 people live in the Buckeye State’s third-largest city. Procter and Gamble is perhaps the best-known company employing Cincinnati's residents. As the largest consumer packaged goods firm in the U.S., it makes everything from Gillette razors to IAMS dog food, and has 105,000 employees. Grocery store giant Kroger is also based in Cincinnati. Founded in 1883, Kroger has 2,778 stores across the country and 431,000 full and part-time employees.

Follow me on Twitter @JeffKauflin or email me at jkauflin [at] forbes.com.