Muay Thai Fighter Lands Flying Knee from Hell, Finishes Foe with Stiff Punch
Muay Thai Fighter Lands Flying Knee from Hell, Finishes Foe with Stiff Punch
Now that's the way to finish the night at #LionFight34! #AndStill the champ, Regian Eersel! We'll see you next week for #LFA3! @LionFight https://t.co/Rpt1ZoJLSh Regian Eersel and DC Pratt were trading punches and kicks in the main event of Lion Fight 34 at Tropicana Las Vegas on Friday night. Nothing out of the ordinary. Then, without warning, the defending super middleweight champion summoned every bad intention in his body, leaped into the air and slammed his right knee into Pratt's face with pinpoint precision. The resulting sound will leave you queasy. Pratt, somehow still standing, stiffened up. Eersel followed the flying knee with a right punch that dropped Pratt to the canvas, where he remained laid out for a few seconds. Somehow, Pratt stood back up and appeared relatively fine. Referee Steve Mazzagatti gave him a standing 10-count, though, and smartly waved the bout off, with no argument from Pratt. Eersel improved his record to 45-4, while his challenger dropped to 20-4. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Regian Eersel and DC Pratt were trading punches and kicks in the main event of Lion Fight 34 at Tropicana Las Vegas on Friday night.

Nothing out of the ordinary.

Then, without warning, the defending super middleweight champion summoned every bad intention in his body, leaped into the air and slammed his right knee into Pratt's face with pinpoint precision. The resulting sound will leave you queasy.

Pratt, somehow still standing, stiffened up. Eersel followed the flying knee with a right punch that dropped Pratt to the canvas, where he remained laid out for a few seconds.

Somehow, Pratt stood back up and appeared relatively fine. Referee Steve Mazzagatti gave him a standing 10-count, though, and smartly waved the bout off, with no argument from Pratt.



Eersel improved his record to 45-4, while his challenger dropped to 20-4.