Young Thug And Lil Durk Target Cyber Trolls On "Internet"
Young Thug And Lil Durk Target Cyber Trolls On "Internet"
Young Thug and Lil Durk have both found themselves facing the backlash of the internet in the past. Durk’s since-squashed beef with Tyga made headlines in 2014, while Thugger drew the ire of his fans after he was seen berating a few airline employees last year. A new track from DJ Bandz's project finds both Young Thug and Lil Durk defending themselves and calling out internet trolls. “Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat/Street nigga getting rap checks/Ask about me boy, I’m bout that/You just do it for the internet,” Durk rhymes, while also name-checking Twitter and Periscope as breeding grounds for trolls. Thugger opts for the type of stunting his fans have become accustomed to, as he threatens to purchase an antiquated social media platform. “Fuck around and take it to the face/Fuck around and blast on your face/Fuck around and clear this place/Fuck around and buy Myspace/I’m charging a hundred bands a day/You can invade my space/Tough talk we not into that,” Young Thug spits. As its title indicates, the collab is part of a project that finds DJ Bandz linking Chicago area artists with performers from Atlanta. Durk and Thugger resume the chemistry they displayed on 2016’s “Trap House,” while Migos, Lil Bibby and YFN Lucci are all featured in various pairings. You can stream “Internet” as well as the other 17 tracks from free courtesy of DJ Bandz’s Soundcloud profile .

Young Thug and Lil Durk have both found themselves facing the backlash of the internet in the past. Durk’s since-squashed beef with Tyga made headlines in 2014, while Thugger drew the ire of his fans after he was seen berating a few airline employees last year. A new track from DJ Bandz's Chilanta 3 project finds both Young Thug and Lil Durk defending themselves and calling out internet trolls.

“Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat/Street nigga getting rap checks/Ask about me boy, I’m bout that/You just do it for the internet,” Durk rhymes, while also name-checking Twitter and Periscope as breeding grounds for trolls.

Thugger opts for the type of stunting his fans have become accustomed to, as he threatens to purchase an antiquated social media platform.

“Fuck around and take it to the face/Fuck around and blast on your face/Fuck around and clear this place/Fuck around and buy Myspace/I’m charging a hundred bands a day/You can invade my space/Tough talk we not into that,” Young Thug spits.

As its title indicates, the collab is part of a project that finds DJ Bandz linking Chicago area artists with performers from Atlanta. Durk and Thugger resume the chemistry they displayed on 2016’s “Trap House,” while Migos, Lil Bibby and YFN Lucci are all featured in various pairings.

You can stream “Internet” as well as the other 17 tracks from Chilanta 3 free courtesy of DJ Bandz’s Soundcloud profile.