How to score some of the best Super Bowl deals on TVs, pizza, and more
How to score some of the best Super Bowl deals on TVs, pizza, and more


Super Bowl spending is expected to reach over $14 billion this year as football fans across the country gear up to watch the Atlanta Falcons take on the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LI this Sunday.

Of the 189 million Americans who will gather to watch Sunday’s big game, 45 million plan on throwing Super Bowl parties for their friends and family, according to the National Retail Federation’s 2017 Super Bowl survey.

If you’re hosting a party, here are some tips that’ll help you score some of the best deals on everything from TVs to pizza delivery.

TVs

The best time of the year to buy a TV is Black Friday, but if you missed out on those deals, the second best time of the year is 1 to 2 weeks before the Super Bowl for discounts over 20% off. In fact, 8.6 million Americans plan on buying a new television in time to watch the big game.

To get the biggest bang for your buck, shop for 4K TVs for a clear, crisp view of every fumble, pass, and touchdown. These monitors have four times the resolution of full HD and prices have been dropping as manufacturers are already working on 8K models. One way to make sure you’re not passing up even lower prices is to request a price adjustment within 30 days of purchase. All you need to do is hold onto your receipt and set up a price alert so you can spot more savings.

Furniture

Looking to kick back and watch the game, but need a new recliner? You’re in luck as January and February are fantastic months to buy furniture. Companies typically roll out with their new models in February, which means you can easily snag a bargain for the inventory they’re trying to push out.

For some of the best deals, check out Macy’s furniture closeout sales. The company is closing 68 stores and I’ve seen discounts over 50% off on living room and bedroom items. In fact, the couch I bought for 30% off is 50% off right now. If you can, go to their showrooms in person to check out their clearances. This way, you’ll be able to negotiate even bigger discounts on floor models or open-boxed items in good condition.

Pizza and wings

Super Bowl Sunday is the biggest day of the year for pizza deliveries, according to the National Restaurant Association. And for many, deliveries will include an order of chicken wings: Americans are expected to consume 1.33 billion wings, says the National Chicken Council — enough to circle the earth nearly 3 times.

Below is a roundup of some of the most popular delivery deals:

For meat-lovers, Papa John’s, the official NFL pizza sponsor, offers its Ultimate Meats pizza with 5 meat toppings including pepperoni, deli-style salami, Italian sausage, center-cut Canadian bacon and hickory smoked bacon. These $11 pies are offered from Jan. 30 through March 5. A 32-piece order of wings will cost around $27 — prices vary by location and whether you carry-out your own order.

For more of a variety, you can “choose any two” at Domino’s for $5.99 each. Choices include pizza, wings, sandwiches, pasta dishes, cheese breads, and dessert. And you can carry out a large 3-topping pizza for $7.99. A 40-piece order of wings can come to about $27.

For larger parties, Pizza Hut has a $20 big party deal with 2 large, 2 topping pizzas, and they’ll also throw in some breadsticks. A 48-piece order of wings can cost around $34 before tax and tip. If you’re looking for a job, Pizza Hut hopes to fill 11,000 permanent positions to meet the Super Bowl demand.

For all orders check online before you checkout for additional store-specific local coupons.

WATCH MORE

4 tips to help you enroll in Obamacare before the Jan. 31st deadline

What’s in and what’s out for retirees in 2017

5 crafty ways to keep thieves from stealing your packages

A money expert’s advice for his new son