Charlie Bones: ‘Sometimes there’s no saving people from their iPhones’

The Guide    Tabu Ley: It’s my signature tune, I’ve played it to death on the show. I think I’ll start bringing a bit of showbiz glam to my shows by having someone come out and put this on to set the vibe right and build the anticipation before I come on from just behind the monitor. Prefab Sprout: I love Paddy : turbo joy, yearning and a mention of Atlantis. Keeps me sane and happy. Harry Case: Incorporating the holy trinity of what I look for in music: tropical, joyous and slightly wonky. I’d have put this on one side and a 15-minute extended version with extra whistling on the other. Joe Bataan: Weddings can be stressful, families can be stressful. I’d get the standard Angels request and reply with Joe Bataan instead. John Coltrane: I remember once, back in the day before audiophiles and cocktail makers synergised and one had to play in pubs full of ingrates, I played this and someone came over and said when are you going to stop playing shit nursery rhymes and start playing proper music. Very saddening. Prince: Sometimes there’s no saving somebody from their iPhone so I’d rescue myself with the best track about the best party with the best people. Donnie & Joe Emerson: I could easily have answered every question with this song but I have learned to control the urge to play it constantly. Dog And Fox: This one sends me off into space. My label is forthcoming; this will be the first release.                                         Topics  Dance music

The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with

Tabu Ley: Haffi Deo

It’s my signature tune, I’ve played it to death on the show. I think I’ll start bringing a bit of showbiz glam to my shows by having someone come out and put this on to set the vibe right and build the anticipation before I come on from just behind the monitor.

The track that got me out of bed this morning

Prefab Sprout: Looking For Atlantis

I love Paddy: turbo joy, yearning and a mention of Atlantis. Keeps me sane and happy.

The track I wish I’d signed to my label

Harry Case: Carry Me Home

Incorporating the holy trinity of what I look for in music: tropical, joyous and slightly wonky. I’d have put this on one side and a 15-minute extended version with extra whistling on the other.

The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding

Joe Bataan: Continental Square Dance

Weddings can be stressful, families can be stressful. I’d get the standard Angels request and reply with Joe Bataan instead.

The track I wish I’d never played

John Coltrane: Naima

I remember once, back in the day before audiophiles and cocktail makers synergised and one had to play in pubs full of ingrates, I played this and someone came over and said when are you going to stop playing shit nursery rhymes and start playing proper music. Very saddening.

The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor

Prince: Uptown

Sometimes there’s no saving somebody from their iPhone so I’d rescue myself with the best track about the best party with the best people.

The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza

Donnie & Joe Emerson: Baby

I could easily have answered every question with this song but I have learned to control the urge to play it constantly.

The best track by my favourite new artist

Dog And Fox: Who Gets The Cows?

This one sends me off into space. My label is forthcoming; this will be the first release.

Charlie Bones presents The Do!! You!!! Breakfast Show, Monday to Friday, 9am, NTS Radio