New Yorkers Hold Vigil for Victims of 'Bowling Green Massacre'
New Yorkers Hold Vigil for Victims of 'Bowling Green Massacre'
New Yorkers held a vigil on Friday for the victims of the Bowling Green Massacre, just outside the Bowling Green train station in lower Manhattan. With chants from the group like "Never remember, always forget," passersby were given a painful reminder that Kellyanne Related Trump's Senior Adviser Kellyanne Conway Allegedly Punched a Man in the Face at Inaugural Ball Kellyanne Conway Said Sean Spicer Used 'Alternative Facts' at His Controversial Press Conference Seth Meyers Grills Trump Advisor Kellyanne Conway About Trump's Alleged Russian Ties . “It never happened so they were never commemorated.” Bauer made the statement while trying to suppress a smile, possibly attempting to mask his true emotional state towards the @HollyAnderson  #TheBowlingGreenMassacre  pic.twitter.com/OSQS36Hjvo During her appearance on

New Yorkers held a vigil on Friday for the victims of the Bowling Green Massacre, just outside the Bowling Green train station in lower Manhattan. With chants from the group like "Never remember, always forget," passersby were given a painful reminder that the individuals who died, according to Donald Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway, would never be far from our minds.

“We’re commemorating the victims of Bowling Green,” Chris Bauer told the New York Daily News. “It never happened so they were never commemorated.” Bauer made the statement while trying to suppress a smile, possibly attempting to mask his true emotional state towards the horrific events, which either happened in Bowling Green, Kentucky; the Bowling Green park in New York City; or a football field.

During her appearance on Chris Matthews' Hardball on Thursday, Conway defended Trump's immigration ban by citing this so-called Bowling Green Massacre. "I bet it's brand new information to people that President Obama had a six-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized, and they were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green Massacre," she said. "I mean, most people don't know that because it didn't get covered."

Most, er, all people didn't know about the Bowling Green Massacre because it never happened. In 2011, two Iraqi nationals were indicted for allegedly being connected to the Improvised Explosive Device attacks against American troops in Iraq. Far from a massacre, but "alternative facts" can get real crazy, and be wildly off sometimes, amirite?