Top Trump Advisor in 2014: World Must Confront Radical Islam Now

Top Trump Advisor in 2014: World Must Confront Radical Islam Now // // // // // On Friday, the New York Times published an excerpt from a speech given by President Trump's chief strategist in which he discusses the war on radical Islam. Stephen Bannon, the former editor-in-chief of Breitbart News, told an audience in Vatican City in 2014 that the world must face the "unpleasant fact" that a major global war is brewing between the West and radical Islam. Due to advancements in technology, especially in the field of weaponry, the threat must be immediately confronted, Bannon said. Steve Bannon's take on threat of "Muslim world" in 2014. pic.twitter.com/jaLbe0JXhO — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 4, 2017 The speech, delivered to the Holy See via Skype from California, was given at the time that ISIS was surging across Iraq. Bannon warned of ISIS' ability to use social media and the fact they were targeting Christian populations in the Middle East. "That war is expanding and it’s metastasizing to sub-Saharan Africa... It is, unfortunately, something that we’re going to have to face, and we’re going to have to face very quickly," Bannon said. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

On Friday, the New York Times published an excerpt from a speech given by President Trump's chief strategist in which he discusses the war on radical Islam.

Stephen Bannon, the former editor-in-chief of Breitbart News, told an audience in Vatican City in 2014 that the world must face the "unpleasant fact" that a major global war is brewing between the West and radical Islam.

George Foreman on Trump: 'You Just Have to Fight'

Hannity: President Trump Is Showing the World There's a New Sheriff in Town

Federal Judge Halts Enforcement of Trump's Travel Ban Nationwide

Due to advancements in technology, especially in the field of weaponry, the threat must be immediately confronted, Bannon said.

Steve Bannon's take on threat of "Muslim world" in 2014. pic.twitter.com/jaLbe0JXhO — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 4, 2017

The speech, delivered to the Holy See via Skype from California, was given at the time that ISIS was surging across Iraq.

Bannon warned of ISIS' ability to use social media and the fact they were targeting Christian populations in the Middle East.

"That war is expanding and it’s metastasizing to sub-Saharan Africa... It is, unfortunately, something that we’re going to have to face, and we’re going to have to face very quickly," Bannon said.

What do you think? Let us know in the comments below.

'Of Course I Want to Punch Him in the Face': De Niro Still Doesn't Like Trump

Dinesh D'Souza: Milo Protests Expose 'Terrorist Element' on US Campuses

Pro-Trump Pastor: Chicago Gang Leaders Want to Work With POTUS on Crime