The week in finance: US banks jump on deregulation, China tightens and RBA to hold



The week in finance: US banks jump on deregulation, China tightens and RBA to hold

Posted

After a recent loss of momentum, the so-called "Trump Trade" has bounced back on news the new administration will be taking the knife to tougher bank laws put in place in the wake of the GFC.

The banking sector drove the S&P 500 up 0.7 per cent to just short of a record close on Friday, which in turn pointed to a positive start to the week on the local market.

The ASX 200 futures were bid up 0.4 per cent over the weekend.

Markets on Friday's close:

ASX SPI 200 futures +0.4pc at 5,596

AUD: 76.83 US cents, 71.22 euro cents, 61.51 British pence, 86.59 Japanese yen, $NZ1.05

US: Dow Jones +0.9 at 20,071, S&P 500 +0.7pc at 2,297, NASDAQ +0.3pc at 5,162

Europe: FTSE +0.7pc at 7,188, DAX +0.2pc at 11,651, Eurostoxx50 +0.2pc at 3,273

Commodities: Brent oil +0.3pc at $US56.72/barrel, Gold +0.3pc at $US1,220/ounce, Iron ore -4.4pc at $US79.57/tonne

The push to scale back bank regulations came as little surprise, but Mr Trump's forum with business bosses where he said he would "be cutting a lot out of Dodd-Frank" was met with high-fives on trading desks as investors piled even more heavily into US banks.

It went a long way to validate the buying of US bank shares since Mr Trump's November victory, with the sector up more than 25 per cent since then.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was the Obama administration's response to profligate and unscrupulous lending by US banks that blew up the global economy.

The exponential expansion of subprime mortgage lending — engineered by exotic and opaque tricks such as collateralised debt obligations — turned toxic, destroyed a couple of banks and took several others to the brink before being bailed out by taxpayers.

The Dodd-Frank package included demands on banks to hold higher levels of low-risk capital, tighter trading rules and a crackdown on the predatory lending which sparked the whole crisis in the first place.

Mr Trump noted his displeasure was not with the banks, but the rules that hamstrung their efforts to lend more to his friends.

"I have so many friends, friends of mine, that have nice businesses that can't borrow money ... because the banks just won't let them borrow because of the rules and regulations in Dodd-Frank," Mr Trump told the assembled business leaders.

The news was especially welcome to JP Morgan Chase boss Jamie Dimon, who was at the forum and saw his bank's share jump 3 per cent over the course of the day.

Mr Dimon appears to be back in the good books, having previously been characterised by Mr Trump as being "the worst banker in the United States" in the wake of a settlement of a $US13 billion with the Department of Justice (DoJ) over JP Morgan's not insignificant part in the GFC.

To be fair to Mr Dimon, it was not because Mr Trump saw him or his bank as unethical or crooked, but because he wimped it by settling the case with the US Government.

All of which poses the question: will the other big bankers now be goaded into expensive litigation with the Trump administration's DoJ's lest being labelled wimps too, or will the DoJ take it easy — not wishing to be hit by another sledge from the Trump playbook, such as being called "nasty"?

It could also be pointed out that Mr Trump's friends with their nice businesses could be a bit unlucky in not getting new lines of credit.

US commercial bank lending has been climbing since 2010 — the year the Dodd-Frank laws were signed into effect by former president Barack Obama — and is now at 70-year highs, according to recent research from the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis.

Anyway, what could go wrong with allowing banks to go back to the free-wheeling pro-growth lending practices they employed before those Democrat curmudgeons Barney Frank and Chris Dodd set out to ruin the fun? There was that savage recession, but apart from that?

China's surprise tightening drives down commodities

While borrowing may be about to become easier in the US, it could be getting a bit tougher in China.

The unexpected decision by the Peoples' Bank of China (PBoC) to push up short-term interest rates looms a worry for Asian markets returning from the Lunar New Year holiday, as well as commodity markets and by extension commodity exporters.

The immediate impact saw iron ore futures on the Dalian Commodity exchange fall more than 5 per cent, while rebar steel futures in Shanghai were down almost 7 per cent on Friday.

The weaker futures market could well drag down Chinese spot-prices, which haven not resumed trading yet, although Nymex iron ore in the US was down more than 4 per cent, slipping below $US80/tonne.

Societe Generale's Wei Yao said the move to raise the so-called "repo" rates was a significant step-up of liquidity tightening.

"The PBoC seems to have become more confident of growth, more concerned about inflationary pressure, and more alarmed about financial leverage," Ms Yao wrote in a note to clients.

However, with the property market looking like rolling over in the second half of the year, any upward cycle in interest rates is likely to be cautious and probably not prolonged.

"The expected narrow window before the next slowdown is probably one critical reason why the PBoC has not yet invoked the nuclear option of raising benchmark deposit and lending rates," Ms Yao said.

The "nuclear option" would be distinctly unpleasant for the miners.

RBA to hold, update forecasts

The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) on the other hand will not feel inclined to tinker with interest rates when it meets on Tuesday.

The market has priced in only a 5 per cent chance of a cut.

The RBA would be loath to spring a surprise, particularly as fourth quarter inflation figures — both headline and underlying — were pretty much in-line with the RBA's forecasts and unemployment has only edged up marginally.

Of more interest may be the RBA's Statement on Monetary Policy on Friday, which will include updates on forecasts for economic growth and inflation.

Citi's Paul Brennan said the RBA was likely to depart from its usual stance of labelling the update as "similar" to previous forecasts.

The third quarter contraction is likely to see about 1 percentage point lopped from mid-year 2017 GDP growth forecasts, although longer term forecasts are unlikely be affected according to Mr Brennan.

"These forecasts are unlikely to be changed given the RBA's glass half-full view of the outlook based on a gradual pick up in non-mining business investment, a lessening drag from falling mining investment, strong growth in export volumes and continued housing construction activity," he said.

"If we are correct, then the RBA would continue to forecast a strengthening in economic growth to 2.5 per cent to 3.5 per cent by year end."

Inflation forecasts are unlikely to be changed either, with the RBA expecting the climb back into its 2 to 3 per cent target band to be on track for early 2019.

The other key economic updates for the week are retail trade (Monday) and housing finance (Friday).

Retail sales should have rebounded in December after a weak month before, while the focus on home loans will be investor activity, which appears to be heating up again much to the anxiety of the RBA and bank regulators.

Rio Tinto, AMP release full-year results

What a difference 12 months can make.

This time last year the mining giant announced a net loss of $1.2 billion, its best efforts undermined by tumbling commodity prices and slowing global growth.

This year analysts are looking for the underlying profit to be somewhere around $5 billion and few nasty write downs to hit the net figure when it drops on Wednesday.

While that is a healthy turnaround, the big surge in commodity prices only really kicked in during the last quarter of 2016, suggesting even strong profits in the forthcoming half.

Investors will be eyeing the cash now flowing into the company and wondering how it will be used and whether they will get a slice of the action.

AMP on the other hand tabled a record billion-dollar profit a year ago, a feat that will not be repeated when it releases its full-year accounts on Thursday.

Morgan Stanley forecasts a loss of more than $250 million, while Credit Suisse has a $300 million loss in its spreadsheets.

Unfavourable moves in bond yields will do a fair bit of damage and life insurance continues to be a challenge.

Nonetheless, Morgan Stanley's Daniel Toohey still likes the wealth manager telling investors stronger capital, lower costs and better cash-flows are supporting a recovery from its low point in October.

Other key results this week include NAB's first quarter trading update (Monday) and half-year numbers from Transurban (Tuesday), Carsales (Wednesday) and AGL (Thursday), while the big contractor CIMIC, formerly known as Leightons, is expected to report a 20 per cent slump in full-year profit (Wednesday).

The US fourth quarter reporting season also rolls on with around half the companies in the S&P 500 reporting so far, another 100 coming up this week.

So far, it has been pretty positive with profits beating expectations up 8 per cent on average, and leading analysts to pencil in an 11 per cent rise for the first quarter this year.

Australia

Monday 6/2/17 Retail sales

Job ads

Inflation gauge Dec: Should rebound from previous fall

Jan: Declined around 2pc in December

Jan: MI/TD Securities series, still weak Tuesday 7/2/17 RBA decision

Construction index No change

Jan: AiG series Wednesday 8/2/17 Thursday 9/2/17 RBA speech

New home sales

NAB business confidence Governor Phillip Lowe

Dec: HIA series

Q4: Tracking around long-term trend Friday 10/2/17 RBA Statement on Monetary Policy

Home Loans Quarterly update on monetary policy and economic forecasts

Dec: Investor lending bouncing back

Corporate

Monday 6/2/17 NAB Q1 trading update Tuesday 7/2/17 Transurban

SCA Property group

Macquarie Group Half-year result, NPAT $175m forecast

Half-year result, NPAT $51m forecast

Operational update Wednesday 8/2/17 Carsales

CIMIC

Rio Tinto Half-year result, NPAT $54m forecast

Full-year result, NPAT $454m forecast

Full-year result, NPAT $US4850m forecast Thursday 9/2/17 AGL

AMP

Suncorp

Newscorp Half-year result, NPAT $383m forecast

Full-year result, NPAT $525m forecast

Half-year result, NPAT $606m forecast

Quarterly report, NPAT $100m forecast Friday 10/2/17

Overseas

Monday 6/2/17 Tuesday 7/2/17 CH: Foreign reserves

US: Trade balance

US: Consumer credit Jan: Officials concerned about outflows

Dec: $US45bn deficit has become political

Dec: Measure of consumer spending Wednesday 8/2/17 CH: Current account Q4: Solid surplus Thursday 9/2/17 US: Wholesale trade Friday 10/2/17 CH: Trade balance

UK: Trade balance Jan: Stronger imports and exports forecast

Jan: Sizeable deficit

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, international-financial-institutions, consumer-finance, international-financial-crisis, united-states, china, australia