Eating A Mediterranean Diet Could Make Your Brain Shrink Less With Age
Eating A Mediterranean Diet Could Make Your Brain Shrink Less With Age
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  David DiSalvo       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (PRNewsFoto/California Walnut Commission) Eating a Mediterranean diet is already linked to a growing list of positives, including less inflammation, more stable blood glucose and decreased depression. To that list we can add that it may also reduce how much our brains shrink as we age. All of us will experience some degree of brain shrinkage as the years tick by, but a new study suggests that it’s possible to preserve our noggin’s size by making diet choices closer to those of the traditional Mediterranean diet. The study tracked about 400 adults in their 70s for three years. The brains of those who ate diets closest to a Mediterranean diet with ample servings of vegetables, beans, nuts, olive oil and whole grains, moderate servings of fish and dairy, and low servings of red meat—experienced less brain shrinkage over the three-year period. Brain size differences were measured with brain scans. Unlike some earlier studies on the Med Diet, this one was less focused on the fish component. A statistical analysis didn’t find any effects from only eating more fish and less red meat. Quoting from the study: “Other components of the Mediterranean Diet or, possibly, all of its components in combination are responsible for the association [with reduced brain shrinkage].” The reasons why the diet may preserve brain size aren’t clear. Previous research has shown a correlation between obesity and reduced brain size in midlife, so it’s possible that the diet’s weight-control benefits are also preserving brain size (but if that’s the case, then any number of diets would correlate with a similar effect). Or it’s possible that the Mediterranean diet’s anti-inflammatory influence helps reduce brain shrinkage. Whatever the precise causes, identifying them was outside the bounds of this research. The study also didn't look for a linkage with Alzheimer's or other forms of dementia. What is clear, from this and previous studies, is that among diet options, the Mediterranean diet offers some of the most impressive benefits across a range of health categories, brain health among them. The study was published in the journal .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Eating a Mediterranean diet is already linked to a growing list of positives, including less inflammation, more stable blood glucose and decreased depression. To that list we can add that it may also reduce how much our brains shrink as we age.

All of us will experience some degree of brain shrinkage as the years tick by, but a new study suggests that it’s possible to preserve our noggin’s size by making diet choices closer to those of the traditional Mediterranean diet. The study tracked about 400 adults in their 70s for three years. The brains of those who ate diets closest to a Mediterranean diet—with ample servings of vegetables, beans, nuts, olive oil and whole grains, moderate servings of fish and dairy, and low servings of red meat—experienced less brain shrinkage over the three-year period. Brain size differences were measured with brain scans.

Unlike some earlier studies on the Med Diet, this one was less focused on the fish component. A statistical analysis didn’t find any effects from only eating more fish and less red meat. Quoting from the study: “Other components of the Mediterranean Diet or, possibly, all of its components in combination are responsible for the association [with reduced brain shrinkage].”

The reasons why the diet may preserve brain size aren’t clear. Previous research has shown a correlation between obesity and reduced brain size in midlife, so it’s possible that the diet’s weight-control benefits are also preserving brain size (but if that’s the case, then any number of diets would correlate with a similar effect). Or it’s possible that the Mediterranean diet’s anti-inflammatory influence helps reduce brain shrinkage. Whatever the precise causes, identifying them was outside the bounds of this research. The study also didn't look for a linkage with Alzheimer's or other forms of dementia.

What is clear, from this and previous studies, is that among diet options, the Mediterranean diet offers some of the most impressive benefits across a range of health categories, brain health among them.

The study was published in the journal Neurology.

You can find David DiSalvo on Twitter, Facebook, Google Plus, and at his website, daviddisalvo.org.