The promising new Vanessa Hudgens show ‘Powerless’ is missing this one key ingredient

to watch the NBC comedy “Powerless,” which premiered Thursday, and be reminded in one respect of Mary Tyler Moore. I genuinely hope that going forward, the writers behind “Powerless” — in order to improve their promising series — will remember her, too. That’s because in the days after Moore died last month, one clip from “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” that often got replayed was that well-known scene from the series premiere, in which bulldog of a newsman Lou Grant says to job candidate Mary Richards: “You’ve got spunk.” Lou then waits a beat — enough time for an aw-shucks smile to cross Mary’s face — before deflating her optimism by barking: “I spunk.” “Powerless,” like “MTM,” opens with a smart, beaming young woman (played by Vanessa Hudgens) embarking on a new city and job, her sunny optimism undimmed by the veteran skeptics all around. The introduction is clear: No matter what it takes, she’s going to make it after all. But what “Powerless” lacks more than anything — and what it so desperately needs — is a character who hates spunk. In other words: Within the precise chemistry of comedy, “Powerless” has curiously refused to add much acid to the mix. And until it does, I’m not sure the half-hour show, over the long haul, can pass the acid test. Which would be a shame, because “Powerless” positively brims with small charms. The title refers neatly to the civilians who live in Charm City, across from Gotham; they are imperiled by the high-flying shenanigans of superheroes in pitched battle with villains, yet they try to carry on with their quotidian existence. Hudgens winningly plays Emily Locke, the new hire at Wayne Security, a firm led by Van (excellent Alan Tudyk), the do-nothing cousin of Bruce Wayne, that creates tech gear to try to minimize the collateral damage endured by civilians. Her jaded, quick-quipping co-workers include Jackie (Christina Kirk), Ron (Ron Funches) and Teddy (Danny Pudi). The premise here feels fresh enough, even if spotlighting the effects of superhero fighting upon civilians is as old as Lois Lane. Placing this conflict within a humdrum office recalls several inspired scenes from Pixar’s “The Incredibles” — “Powerless” creator Ben Queen has a Pixar pedigree himself, writing the screenplay for “Cars 2.” And despite being DC fare, the show is a direct nod to Marvel’s “Damage Control” sit-comics, created three decades ago by artist Ernie Colon and the late, great Dwayne McDuffie. In that latter work, the Damage Control construction company, which repairs the fallout from supervillain fighting, is even co-owned by a superhero’s daily tycoon identity, Tony Stark — much like how Bruce Wayne owns Wayne Security. Which brings us to Bruce’s hapless cousin Van Wayne, who has about as much pull within the family business as comedian Steven Wright’s Stan Spielberg, fictional slack cousin to the movie mogul, has in Albert Brooks’s “The Muse.” Namely, farther from little and closer to none. Typically in this sort of sitcom, it would fall to the boss role to provide the spunk-loathing comedic counterpoint to Hudgens’s sentient sunflower of an underling. In the recent superhero-TV world, this dynamic particularly helped juice the launch of “Supergirl” until that action-comedy’s bigger pieces could begin to fall into place. The thing is, Tudyk’s boss is effective as another standard character: The visionless superior who comes to appreciate, out of necessity, the company breakthroughs that occur despite his presence. This is gentler comedy, as its core, than, say, the satire of “The Office” or the deadpan irony of “Office Space.” Which brings us back to the Lou Grant type. What strikes as somewhat odd about the absence of any loud, critically acidic character in “Powerless” is that such a figure is smack in the comedic wheelhouse of writer and executive producer Justin Halpern, whose breakthrough was his @S‑‑‑MyDadSays Twitter feed that spawned the best-selling book and short-lived TV series starring William Shatner. Halpern has a keen ear for the authentically acidic. He puts the “smart” in “smartass” and, as a former standout prep pitcher, surely knows when comedy must be pitched, like a curveball, with “bite.” Instead, “Powerless” leans at times toward camp, with extreme close-ups that are slightly askew, as if nodding to the ’60s “Batman” series (which burned bright until, after two seasons, the high camp felt more canned than fresh). The occasionally quavery voice-over even summons the old Bat-tones of a costumed Adam West. Ease up on the camp, though, and this show is so close. Hudgens hits her beats like an old pro, convincingly exuding the confidence of a plucky newcomer who will grow into a leader. Give her a co-worker who will be the comedic anti-serum for all that cheer — and this series could concoct a core chemistry that saves the whole enterprise. That’s a worthy hope, because at times, this show really knows what it’s about. The greatest indicator is in the Emmy-worthy opening credits, when the camera pans across pages from the dawn of comic books, including the late-’30s debut of Superman in Detective Comics. Our view holds not on the superhero but on those nervous civilians who frame the scene. “Powerless” is a key ingredient or two away from rising above the clutch of comic book-inspired TV. All it might need is that splash of acid. Because it’s got spark. And we don’t hate spark.



Vanessa Hudgens stars as the never-say-die newcomer in NBC’s comics sitcom, “Powerless.” (Evans Vestal Ward/NBC)

IT’S EASY to watch the NBC comedy “Powerless,” which premiered Thursday, and be reminded in one respect of Mary Tyler Moore. I genuinely hope that going forward, the writers behind “Powerless” — in order to improve their promising series — will remember her, too.

That’s because in the days after Moore died last month, one clip from “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” that often got replayed was that well-known scene from the series premiere, in which bulldog of a newsman Lou Grant says to job candidate Mary Richards: “You’ve got spunk.” Lou then waits a beat — enough time for an aw-shucks smile to cross Mary’s face — before deflating her optimism by barking: “I hate spunk.”

“Powerless,” like “MTM,” opens with a smart, beaming young woman (played by Vanessa Hudgens) embarking on a new city and job, her sunny optimism undimmed by the veteran skeptics all around. The introduction is clear: No matter what it takes, she’s going to make it after all.

But what “Powerless” lacks more than anything — and what it so desperately needs — is a character who hates spunk.

In other words: Within the precise chemistry of comedy, “Powerless” has curiously refused to add much acid to the mix. And until it does, I’m not sure the half-hour show, over the long haul, can pass the acid test.

Which would be a shame, because “Powerless” positively brims with small charms.

The title refers neatly to the civilians who live in Charm City, across from Gotham; they are imperiled by the high-flying shenanigans of superheroes in pitched battle with villains, yet they try to carry on with their quotidian existence.

Hudgens winningly plays Emily Locke, the new hire at Wayne Security, a firm led by Van (excellent Alan Tudyk), the do-nothing cousin of Bruce Wayne, that creates tech gear to try to minimize the collateral damage endured by civilians. Her jaded, quick-quipping co-workers include Jackie (Christina Kirk), Ron (Ron Funches) and Teddy (Danny Pudi).

The premise here feels fresh enough, even if spotlighting the effects of superhero fighting upon civilians is as old as Lois Lane. Placing this conflict within a humdrum office recalls several inspired scenes from Pixar’s “The Incredibles” — “Powerless” creator Ben Queen has a Pixar pedigree himself, writing the screenplay for “Cars 2.” And despite being DC fare, the show is a direct nod to Marvel’s “Damage Control” sit-comics, created three decades ago by artist Ernie Colon and the late, great Dwayne McDuffie. In that latter work, the Damage Control construction company, which repairs the fallout from supervillain fighting, is even co-owned by a superhero’s daily tycoon identity, Tony Stark — much like how Bruce Wayne owns Wayne Security.

Which brings us to Bruce’s hapless cousin Van Wayne, who has about as much pull within the family business as comedian Steven Wright’s Stan Spielberg, fictional slack cousin to the movie mogul, has in Albert Brooks’s “The Muse.” Namely, farther from little and closer to none.



Teddy (Danny Pudi), Emily (Vanessa Hudgens) and Wendy (Jennie Pierson) set their sights on saving Wayne Security — and thus their jobs — in NBC’s ““Powerless.” (photo by Evans Vestal Ward / NBC)

Typically in this sort of sitcom, it would fall to the boss role to provide the spunk-loathing comedic counterpoint to Hudgens’s sentient sunflower of an underling. In the recent superhero-TV world, this dynamic particularly helped juice the launch of “Supergirl” until that action-comedy’s bigger pieces could begin to fall into place.

The thing is, Tudyk’s boss is effective as another standard character: The visionless superior who comes to appreciate, out of necessity, the company breakthroughs that occur despite his presence. This is gentler comedy, as its core, than, say, the satire of “The Office” or the deadpan irony of “Office Space.” Which brings us back to the Lou Grant type.

What strikes as somewhat odd about the absence of any loud, critically acidic character in “Powerless” is that such a figure is smack in the comedic wheelhouse of writer and executive producer Justin Halpern, whose breakthrough was his @S‑‑‑MyDadSays Twitter feed that spawned the best-selling book and short-lived TV series starring William Shatner. Halpern has a keen ear for the authentically acidic. He puts the “smart” in “smartass” and, as a former standout prep pitcher, surely knows when comedy must be pitched, like a curveball, with “bite.”

Instead, “Powerless” leans at times toward camp, with extreme close-ups that are slightly askew, as if nodding to the ’60s “Batman” series (which burned bright until, after two seasons, the high camp felt more canned than fresh). The occasionally quavery voice-over even summons the old Bat-tones of a costumed Adam West.

Ease up on the camp, though, and this show is so close. Hudgens hits her beats like an old pro, convincingly exuding the confidence of a plucky newcomer who will grow into a leader. Give her a co-worker who will be the comedic anti-serum for all that cheer — and this series could concoct a core chemistry that saves the whole enterprise.

That’s a worthy hope, because at times, this show really knows what it’s about. The greatest indicator is in the Emmy-worthy opening credits, when the camera pans across pages from the dawn of comic books, including the late-’30s debut of Superman in Detective Comics. Our view holds not on the superhero but on those nervous civilians who frame the scene.

“Powerless” is a key ingredient or two away from rising above the clutch of comic book-inspired TV. All it might need is that splash of acid. Because it’s got spark. And we don’t hate spark.