Iran Lifts Ban Preventing US Wrestlers From Attending Tournament
Iran Lifts Ban Preventing US Wrestlers From Attending Tournament
Shares                Iran announced Sunday that it has lifted its ban on U.S. wrestlers from attending the freestyle World Cup later this month in the Iranian city of Kermanshah -- a retaliatory move announced Friday, in response to President Donald Trump 's executive order forbidding visas for Iranians. "Following the court ruling suspending #MuslimBan & the requests from Iranian Wrestling Federation & FILA, US Wrestlers' visa will be granted," tweeted Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran's minister of foreign affairs.  Following the court ruling suspending #MuslimBan & the requests from Iranian Wrestling Federation & FILA, US Wrestlers' visa will be granted  Iranian news agency IRNA on Friday quoted the country's foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Ghasemi as saying a special committee reviewed the case of the U.S. team for the tournament, and "eventually the visit ... was opposed." The competition is set for Feb. 16-17. Rich Bender, executive director of USA Wrestling, the sport's governing body in the U.S., had said in a statement last week, "We don't think politics [should] have any role in this. But, unfortunately, sometimes you can't control that."  Shares                  Iran Lifts Ban Preventing US Wrestlers From Attending Tournament   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   Appeals Court to Decide on Challenge to Trump's Immigration Executive Order   At Least 4 Tornadoes Reported in Southeast Louisiana   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Manhunt On Near Florida-Alabama Border for Duo Wanted for 3 Murders   Romania Protests Endure as President Says Country in Crisis   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   Israeli Allies Condemn Settlement Law as Lawsuits Loom   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Ben Stiller Shares Stories from Meeting Refugees in Jordan   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Slain ISIS Hostage's Family Gives to Aid Group They Say Failed Their Daughter   US Hostage Kayla Mueller's Foundation Finally Receives Obama Donation   Life After ISIS: One Girl's Story From Slavery to Freedom   'Bachelor' Nick Viall: I Was 'More Aware' of Drama Than Some Women Realized   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Glitz, Gowns and Politics at This Year's Oscars   1st 'Iron Fist' Trailer Tells Origin Story of Danny Rand   At a Cool $250M, LA Mega Mansion Is Priciest Listing in US

Iran announced Sunday that it has lifted its ban on U.S. wrestlers from attending the freestyle World Cup later this month in the Iranian city of Kermanshah -- a retaliatory move announced Friday, in response to President Donald Trump's executive order forbidding visas for Iranians.

"Following the court ruling suspending #MuslimBan & the requests from Iranian Wrestling Federation & FILA, US Wrestlers' visa will be granted," tweeted Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran's minister of foreign affairs.

Following the court ruling suspending #MuslimBan & the requests from Iranian Wrestling Federation & FILA, US Wrestlers' visa will be granted — Javad Zarif (@JZarif) February 5, 2017

Iranian news agency IRNA on Friday quoted the country's foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Ghasemi as saying a special committee reviewed the case of the U.S. team for the tournament, and "eventually the visit ... was opposed." The competition is set for Feb. 16-17.

Rich Bender, executive director of USA Wrestling, the sport's governing body in the U.S., had said in a statement last week, "We don't think politics [should] have any role in this. But, unfortunately, sometimes you can't control that."

ABC News' Marcus Wilford contributed to this report.