An Undertaker Talks About Life, Happiness And A 1000 Funerals
An Undertaker Talks About Life, Happiness And A 1000 Funerals
When death comes knocking at the door, there is hardly any willing host. However, we met a man who opens the door for the dead and welcomes them with a contagious grin. Meet John Pinto, an undertaker who has been attending the dead since 35 years! For someone whose job is to attend the dead, John Pinto is one cheerful man. Amidst the continuous ringing of the phone and coordinating with the embassies for a smooth transportation of dead bodies, Mr Pinto welcomed us with a sweet smile. After ten minutes of non-stop phone calls, we finally settled down over chai to discuss how difficult the job must be. However, he made us realise that it was not. Because we were talking to a man who turned a job into a service filled with passion. That explains why the entire Mumbai city gives him a call during inconsolable grief. That’s because he attends; he attends it with an utmost care. Started in 1981, John Pinto funeral service was the brainchild of John and his wife Edna. With no professionalism attached to the service, the husband-wife duo decided to add a personal touch to what they do. And, then the rest is history. In two years time, the funeral service became an authorised service all over the world to handle dead bodies. Today, they have offices in nine cities in India. When asked about how is a typical day in a life of an undertaker, Pinto replies that his office is open 24X7 and his phone has to be charged twice is a day. “My phone rings throughout the night because we also take care of the US market. If my staff doesn’t attend the call, then I do. No calls are left unattended.” Talking about calls being made every day, we can’t help but imagine how the situation at his office must be during the time of mass tragedies. “During the 1993 bomb blasts, all the casualties were handled by us. It was the time when there was no National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT). The families would tell us to carry out the funeral and would say that they would pay later. We, too, never asked for any payments as such. However, we received payments for every single body during the tragedy,” Pinto tells us. When we looked at the walls of his office, a prestigious MBE was perched on the walls. “This award came as a surprise. It was a reward that I got for my hard work. It is when you do good work, it gets talked about and it goes on social media. The department at the Queen’s administration said that John Pinto’s service is fantastic,” he beams with pride. Good words have not only come from the Queen of England but also from local politicians and families who have sent him heartfelt letters for putting their loved ones to rest. He, along with his two sons, is the only certified embalmer and post-mortem surgeons in the city who are not associated with hospitals. Embalming is a process of preserving human remains by treating them (in its modern form with chemicals) to forestall decomposition.

When death comes knocking at the door, there is hardly any willing host. However, we met a man who opens the door for the dead and welcomes them with a contagious grin. Meet John Pinto, an undertaker who has been attending the dead since 35 years! For someone whose job is to attend the dead, John Pinto is one cheerful man. Amidst the continuous ringing of the phone and coordinating with the embassies for a smooth transportation of dead bodies, Mr Pinto welcomed us with a sweet smile.

After ten minutes of non-stop phone calls, we finally settled down over chai to discuss how difficult the job must be. However, he made us realise that it was not. Because we were talking to a man who turned a job into a service filled with passion. That explains why the entire Mumbai city gives him a call during inconsolable grief. That’s because he attends; he attends it with an utmost care.

Image Credit: indiatimes

Started in 1981, John Pinto funeral service was the brainchild of John and his wife Edna. With no professionalism attached to the service, the husband-wife duo decided to add a personal touch to what they do. And, then the rest is history.

In two years time, the funeral service became an authorised service all over the world to handle dead bodies. Today, they have offices in nine cities in India. When asked about how is a typical day in a life of an undertaker, Pinto replies that his office is open 24X7 and his phone has to be charged twice is a day.

“My phone rings throughout the night because we also take care of the US market. If my staff doesn’t attend the call, then I do. No calls are left unattended.”

Talking about calls being made every day, we can’t help but imagine how the situation at his office must be during the time of mass tragedies.

“During the 1993 bomb blasts, all the casualties were handled by us. It was the time when there was no National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT). The families would tell us to carry out the funeral and would say that they would pay later. We, too, never asked for any payments as such. However, we received payments for every single body during the tragedy,” Pinto tells us.

When we looked at the walls of his office, a prestigious MBE was perched on the walls.

“This award came as a surprise. It was a reward that I got for my hard work. It is when you do good work, it gets talked about and it goes on social media. The department at the Queen’s administration said that John Pinto’s service is fantastic,” he beams with pride. Good words have not only come from the Queen of England but also from local politicians and families who have sent him heartfelt letters for putting their loved ones to rest.

MBE recognition Image Credit: indiatimes

He, along with his two sons, is the only certified embalmer and post-mortem surgeons in the city who are not associated with hospitals. Embalming is a process of preserving human remains by treating them (in its modern form with chemicals) to forestall decomposition.

Pinto gets around 10-12 embalming requests every day. He shared a memory about how he performed embalming on an infant.

The body was earlier given to Cooper hospital, but since they didn’t handle it with care.

"It then came to me. I worked on the body from 8 pm to 4 am. When the relatives came to take the body, they saw it and were shocked. 'John gave us our angel back,' they called up the infant’s mother and told her. Those lines I still remember,” he told us.

Image Credit: indiatimes

He and his valued staff have made embassies world over dependent on them during the time of tragedies.

“During 26/11 too, we did all the paperwork for the Israeli bodies. The Israelis were very particular about the process and they didn’t compromise. We smoothly made all the provisions to send the bodies back to Israel.”

If the bodies are to be transported overseas, Pinto takes the entire paperwork responsibility and doesn’t allow the family to worry about it.

When we inquired about the coffins, Pinto informed us that they are always in stock.

“There are about 800-1200 always ready," he told us.

How can he be so jolly despite facing death every day was our recurring question.

“It’s in my nature. I believe that if you smile the world smiles with you. People come here carrying grief. The hospital has overcharged them and their dear one has left the world. So, I try to light up the mood by cracking few jokes,” and we can totally see him doing that.

Image Credit: indiatimes

Before leaving, we asked him what he thinks about death, “It should be looked at as a celebration of a good life led on this earth and then going to a better place.”

We couldn’t agree more with Mr Pinto on this one.