9 cooking projects that will please a crowd — or just you

Super Bowl and Valentine’s Day recipes are at their peak, but we at WaPo Food like to dabble in alternatives. Not alternative facts, mind you, but alternatives to the chocolate-filled and football-themed. So if you couldn’t care less about the big game or you're not in the lovey-dovey mood, great! What better way to stage a culinary protest than to invest some time in a baking or cooking project from the Recipe Finder ? The recipes aren’t complicated, but they do require time or repetitive (and hopefully, meditative) motion. And if you end up making something for a football-watching crowd or your Valentine, that’s okay, too.  Old-Fashioned Cinnamon Babka   Best-of Bagels   Peppermint Marshmallows   Homemade Graham Crackers   Pocky Sticks   Korean Fried Dumplings (Goon Mandu)   Basic Corn Tortillas   Stuffed Grape Leaves   Cavatelli Pugliesi  1. Warm Spinach and Artichoke Dip . This version is more healthful, thanks to a few tweaks from Nourish columnist Ellie Krieger. 2. Whole Wheat Spiced Carrot Muffins . From cookbook author Julia Turshen’s ode to snow-day cooking , these muffins are perfect not-too-sweet morning treat or snack. 3. Brownies With Raspberry Jam Swirl . Turshen’s take on an easy cocoa powder brownie. 4. Sweet Potato Gnocchi With Peas + Parm . Another from Turshen, this easy pasta appeals to kids and grown-ups alike. 5. Hands-Down Best Chicken Wings . A three-ingredient recipe.     Have questions about cooking? Join our live chat Wednesdays at 12.

Super Bowl and Valentine’s Day recipes are at their peak, but we at WaPo Food like to dabble in alternatives. Not alternative facts, mind you, but alternatives to the chocolate-filled and football-themed. So if you couldn’t care less about the big game or you're not in the lovey-dovey mood, great! What better way to stage a culinary protest than to invest some time in a baking or cooking project from the Recipe Finder? The recipes aren’t complicated, but they do require time or repetitive (and hopefully, meditative) motion. And if you end up making something for a football-watching crowd or your Valentine, that’s okay, too.



(Deb Lindsey /For The Washington Post)

Old-Fashioned Cinnamon Babka



(Deb Lindsey/For The Washington Post)

Best-of Bagels



(Deb Lindsey/For The Washington Post)

Peppermint Marshmallows



(Dayna Smith/For The Washington Post)

Homemade Graham Crackers



Pocky Sticks. (Deb Lindsey /For The Washington Post)

Korean Fried Dumplings (Goon Mandu). (Dayna Smith/For The Washington Post)

Pocky Sticks

Korean Fried Dumplings (Goon Mandu)



(Scott Suchman/For The Washington Post)

Basic Corn Tortillas



(Renee Comet; styling by Bonnie S. Benwick/For the Washington Post)

Stuffed Grape Leaves



(Deb Lindsey/For The Washington Post)

Cavatelli Pugliesi

Top recipes of the week

1. Warm Spinach and Artichoke Dip. This version is more healthful, thanks to a few tweaks from Nourish columnist Ellie Krieger.

2. Whole Wheat Spiced Carrot Muffins. From cookbook author Julia Turshen’s ode to snow-day cooking, these muffins are perfect not-too-sweet morning treat or snack.

3. Brownies With Raspberry Jam Swirl. Turshen’s take on an easy cocoa powder brownie.

4. Sweet Potato Gnocchi With Peas + Parm. Another from Turshen, this easy pasta appeals to kids and grown-ups alike.

5. Hands-Down Best Chicken Wings. A three-ingredient recipe.