CenturyLinkVoice: The Super Bowl: A Cybersecurity Perspective
CenturyLinkVoice: The Super Bowl: A Cybersecurity Perspective
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  CenturyLink       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Uttering the excuse , “I’m drunk. I’m stupid,” a Boston man explained how he deliberately set off a hotel fire alarm at 3:40 AM to wake up the Pittsburgh Steelers* on AFC Championship game day. His act forced an evacuation and caused a lot of lost sleep. The incident falls into the category of a nuisance prank, but with possible myriad consequences. As a cybersecurity professional, I thought, “It could have been much worse.” The episode made me think of the incredible security challenges the NFL*, the City of Houston and anyone else with “skin in the game” faces when hosting such a large event. We can learn a lot about how to secure our organizations based on the best-in-class success the NFL has achieved in its approach to security dilemmas. At an event like the Super Bowl*, any security incident can have a major impact. The complicated landscape of those in need of “watchdog” security measures during the game includes: the stadium and its surrounds, the broadcast, ticketing and ticket vendors, Houston, the fans, the players and their families, officials, transportation, sponsor links, the performers, technical crews and equipment, the full time and potentially problematic part-time staff and volunteers, the media, the vendors, food safety, parking, law enforcement and private security, VIPs, viewers, utility companies, drivers, the airports and emergency services, etc. There is a mind-boggling amount of risk exposure. With so much at stake, the NFL lives in the space where they own the seriousness and magnitude of risk management planning. An attack could affect 73,000 ticket holders and 1 million estimated visitors to downtown Houston. In a worst case scenario, people might even be in physical danger from a systemic outage. For this reason, the Department of Homeland Security considers the Super Bowl an event with national security implications. Everyone is trying to do the same thing at the same time yet stay safely connected. How do you predict, detect, and mitigate any level of risk, which would impact everyone involved in the big game?  The enormity of this question is something that keeps senior executives and security professionals up at night. Much like in football, cybersecurity needs to be approached from both a defensive and offensive approach. Allow me to share three ways to approach security challenges using strategies and tactics based on the best practices the NFL has incorporated to protect everyone involved in Super Bowl LI. One of my favorite quotes from also highlighted in the 4 /5 century tract, is, which translates to: “If you want peace prepare for war.” To prepare for the worst, most cybersecurity specialists recommend the inclusion of a “defense in depth” strategy. One perimeter is never enough. It is crucial for companies to address not only the immediate risks in front of them, but also the entire “threat horizon” and beyond. You need threat intelligence to both efficiently detect and respond to attacks. A security partner like CenturyLink can provide you with technologies like security incident and event management (SIEM) as well as the skilled staff that can detect security threats — across the entire IT environment. Proactivity is absolutely non-negotiable. Critical factors include identifying and prioritizing potential risks , assessing and monitoring situations and coordinating actions ahead of possible negative outcomes. The ultimate place to begin is to assume that someone is going to breach your corporate network and attempt to find security weaknesses to exploit. It goes beyond corporate systems, however. At a big event like the Super Bowl, the advent of the “smart stadium” with its multiple Internet of Things (IoT) touch points presents another unique risk. Virtually everyone at the game is using a mobile device to order food, purchase merchandise, watch replays and so forth. Mobile has its own unique set of vulnerabilities. A diligent cybersecurity manager will keep IoT devices and network security clearly in focus as part of the entire threat horizon. Security must be managed at every possible level beginning with the wireless networks used to connect fans and users to various resources. We live and work in a new, exposed global fishbowl. Your people are targets. They need to be trained. As the cryptographic “MVP” Bruce Schneier says, “Amateurs hack systems, professionals hack people.” Everyone in his or her job needs to understand security around what they do. Security training is imperative from the Board level down. Anyone connected to your network exposes you to potential risk. For instance, with bring your own device (BYOD) policies, your people’s personal devices cross over and are used for business. You must think about how an attacker might leverage an employee device to compromise your network. Teach your people to spot sophisticated spear phishing and social engineering. Assume that employees and even your vendors could have elevated account permissions or privileges within your network or business applications that leave your organization vulnerable. Every organization should be suiting up for the inevitable cybersecurity “bowl game” in their futures. Looking to the future, all businesses must prepare for the worst. Find a partner offering comprehensive offense and defense security services to help your businesses expand and grow. For more information about minimizing security risks while optimizing your budget, talk to a CenturyLink cybersecurity expert today.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Uttering the excuse, “I’m drunk. I’m stupid,” a Boston man explained how he deliberately set off a hotel fire alarm at 3:40 AM to wake up the Pittsburgh Steelers* on AFC Championship game day. His act forced an evacuation and caused a lot of lost sleep.

The incident falls into the category of a nuisance prank, but with possible myriad consequences. As a cybersecurity professional, I thought, “It could have been much worse.” The episode made me think of the incredible security challenges the NFL*, the City of Houston and anyone else with “skin in the game” faces when hosting such a large event.

We can learn a lot about how to secure our organizations based on the best-in-class success the NFL has achieved in its approach to security dilemmas.

At an event like the Super Bowl*, any security incident can have a major impact. The complicated landscape of those in need of “watchdog” security measures during the game includes: the stadium and its surrounds, the broadcast, ticketing and ticket vendors, Houston, the fans, the players and their families, officials, transportation, sponsor links, the performers, technical crews and equipment, the full time and potentially problematic part-time staff and volunteers, the media, the vendors, food safety, parking, law enforcement and private security, VIPs, viewers, utility companies, drivers, the airports and emergency services, etc. There is a mind-boggling amount of risk exposure.

With so much at stake, the NFL lives in the space where they own the seriousness and magnitude of risk management planning. An attack could affect 73,000 ticket holders and 1 million estimated visitors to downtown Houston. In a worst case scenario, people might even be in physical danger from a systemic outage. For this reason, the Department of Homeland Security considers the Super Bowl an event with national security implications. Everyone is trying to do the same thing at the same time yet stay safely connected.

How do you predict, detect, and mitigate any level of risk, which would impact everyone involved in the big game? The enormity of this question is something that keeps senior executives and security professionals up at night. Much like in football, cybersecurity needs to be approached from both a defensive and offensive approach. Allow me to share three ways to approach security challenges using strategies and tactics based on the best practices the NFL has incorporated to protect everyone involved in Super Bowl LI.

Prepare for the Worst - One of my favorite quotes from Plato also highlighted in the 4th/5th century tract, De Re Militari is, “Si vis pacem, para bellum,” which translates to: “If you want peace prepare for war.” To prepare for the worst, most cybersecurity specialists recommend the inclusion of a “defense in depth” strategy. One perimeter is never enough. It is crucial for companies to address not only the immediate risks in front of them, but also the entire “threat horizon” and beyond. You need threat intelligence to both efficiently detect and respond to attacks. A security partner like CenturyLink can provide you with technologies like security incident and event management (SIEM) as well as the skilled staff that can detect security threats — across the entire IT environment.

Implement Pre-Emptive Planning - Proactivity is absolutely non-negotiable. Critical factors include identifying and prioritizing potential risks, assessing and monitoring situations and coordinating actions ahead of possible negative outcomes. The ultimate place to begin is to assume that someone is going to breach your corporate network and attempt to find security weaknesses to exploit. It goes beyond corporate systems, however. At a big event like the Super Bowl, the advent of the “smart stadium” with its multiple Internet of Things (IoT) touch points presents another unique risk. Virtually everyone at the game is using a mobile device to order food, purchase merchandise, watch replays and so forth. Mobile has its own unique set of vulnerabilities. A diligent cybersecurity manager will keep IoT devices and network security clearly in focus as part of the entire threat horizon. Security must be managed at every possible level beginning with the wireless networks used to connect fans and users to various resources.

The Human Factor: Security Awareness Training - We live and work in a new, exposed global fishbowl. Your people are targets. They need to be trained. As the cryptographic “MVP” Bruce Schneier says, “Amateurs hack systems, professionals hack people.” Everyone in his or her job needs to understand security around what they do. Security training is imperative from the Board level down. Anyone connected to your network exposes you to potential risk. For instance, with bring your own device (BYOD) policies, your people’s personal devices cross over and are used for business. You must think about how an attacker might leverage an employee device to compromise your network. Teach your people to spot sophisticated spear phishing and social engineering. Assume that employees and even your vendors could have elevated account permissions or privileges within your network or business applications that leave your organization vulnerable.

Every organization should be suiting up for the inevitable cybersecurity “bowl game” in their futures. Looking to the future, all businesses must prepare for the worst. Find a partner offering comprehensive offense and defense security services to help your businesses expand and grow.

For more information about minimizing security risks while optimizing your budget, talk to a CenturyLink cybersecurity expert today.

Note: Reference to the NFL and Super Bowl are for exemplary purposes only. No services were provided by CenturyLink to the NFL.