Kristen Stewart Drops a Well-Timed F-Bomb During Her 'SNL' Monologue
Kristen Stewart Drops a Well-Timed F-Bomb During Her 'SNL' Monologue
Kristen Stewart made her debut on tonight. In her monologue, Stewart brought up how Donald Trump might actually hate her because of his weird obsession with her relationship with Robert Pattinson in 2012. That’s right, Trump was fixated over the stars of , and he shared his thoughts to his Twitter followers. “Everyone knows I am right that Robert Pattinson should dump Kristen Stewart. In a couple of years, he will thank me. Be smart, Robert,” he wrote in one tweet. At the end, Stewart slipped and said the f-word on live television before wrapping up her monologue. But it was pretty badass. Related Meet Jermaine Fowler, the First Black Sitcom Lead on CBS in a Generation From Disney to DC: The Reinvention of Vanessa Hudgens Twitter Comes for Iyanla Vanzant After her Insensitive Tweets on Sexism, Racism and Homophobia Earlier this week, Stewart drew excitement for her appearance on with a pair of promos with Leslie Jones and Alessia Cara. In the first clip, Jones makes a joke about their height, thinking they are Keebler Elves. In the second one, Jones tries to get Stewart amped for the show, but her demeanor is so nonchalant that you can’t really tell if she was actually excited or uninterested. Stewart’s gig has been a long time coming for her. During an interview on Stewart explained how she pushed herself to finally do “For six years, I’ve just been a total wuss about it. At some point, you just have to bite the bullet and just fail,” she said jokingly. “It’s been really, really fun,” she added about this week’s rehearsals.” Check out her monologue above. Stewart stars in which will premiere in select theaters on March 10.

Kristen Stewart made her debut on SNL tonight.

In her monologue, Stewart brought up how Donald Trump might actually hate her because of his weird obsession with her relationship with Robert Pattinson in 2012. That’s right, Trump was fixated over the stars of Twilight, and he shared his thoughts to his Twitter followers. “Everyone knows I am right that Robert Pattinson should dump Kristen Stewart. In a couple of years, he will thank me. Be smart, Robert,” he wrote in one tweet.

At the end, Stewart slipped and said the f-word on live television before wrapping up her monologue. But it was pretty badass.

Earlier this week, Stewart drew excitement for her appearance on SNL with a pair of promos with Leslie Jones and Alessia Cara. In the first clip, Jones makes a joke about their height, thinking they are Keebler Elves. In the second one, Jones tries to get Stewart amped for the show, but her demeanor is so nonchalant that you can’t really tell if she was actually excited or uninterested.

Stewart’s SNL gig has been a long time coming for her. During an interview on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, Stewart explained how she pushed herself to finally do SNL. “For six years, I’ve just been a total wuss about it. At some point, you just have to bite the bullet and just fail,” she said jokingly. “It’s been really, really fun,” she added about this week’s rehearsals.”

Check out her monologue above. Stewart stars in Personal Shopper, which will premiere in select theaters on March 10.