The most polluted cities in the world, ranked
The most polluted cities in the world, ranked


Fox News Channel Names Tucker Carlson as New 9pm Host

Royal Fail! Palace Guardsman Admits to Almost Shooting Queen Elizabeth II

KS Lawmaker on Son's Viral 'Dab': 'I Thought It Was a Superhero Pose'

A Massachusetts sheriff has offered his county's inmates to help President-elect Donald Trump build a potential border wall with Mexico.

Bristol County Sheriff Thomas Hodgson announced his proposal right after he was sworn in for his fourth term as county sheriff.

He joined "Fox & Friends" Friday morning to discuss the reasoning behind this proposal.

"Sheriffs across this country do work programs in their communities to help build infrastructure and support not-for-profit agencies and government agencies," he said. "So this saves taxpayer money, and it gives inmates a chance to get out and learn a skill and get jump started into working and getting reintegrated into the community without committing more crimes."

Hodgson said he has not spoken to Trump directly, but the offer has been sent along to Trump's team. He also did not address who would pay to transport, house and secure Bristol County's inmates as they worked on a potential wall.

The American Civil Liberties Union has stated that having inmates build the wall would be "unconstitutional."

We've asked Sheriff Hodgson for “all records of communication” with Trump team on his idea to help build border wall https://t.co/xyunkbXzNv — ACLU Massachusetts (@ACLU_Mass) January 5, 2017

As for the wall itself, the Trump transition team is now said to be seeking appropriations from Congress up front and then having Mexico pay for the wall later, as was Trump's position during his campaign.

The dishonest media does not report that any money spent on building the Great Wall (for sake of speed), will be paid back by Mexico later! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2017

Tell us your thoughts on this Massachusetts sheriff's proposal.

Check out the latest updates from Fox News Channel on the Trump transition!

Assange's Advice for Trump: Learn From Democrats' Mistakes

Hannity: GOP Must Make Dems Own the 'Monumental Failure' of ObamaCare

O'Reilly: Blame Liberal Politicians & Laws for Chaos in Chicago & San Fran