A BBC presenter had to point out she never ran a torture black site for the CIA
A BBC presenter had to point out she never ran a torture black site for the CIA
Of course! "M" of James Bond clearly stands for 'Maitlis'. Anywho.  @maitlis  @KenRoth Confirmed image of you interrogating a detainee pic.twitter.com/00HlCZGv4p  @maitlis it'd be an interesting Newsnight interview. 'minister, you haven't answered my question, now, put this towel over your face'  That's what you'd have us believe Emily. But someone who ran a CIA black site would pretend just that. You are hiding in plain sight. https://t.co/8YIhdY7zeN  Roth's original tweet has since been deleted. He apologised twice. Sorry, wrong photo for new CIA deputy director Gina Haspel.  Sorry, wrong photo for new CIA deputy director Gina Haspel.  Andrew Stroehlein, the European media director for Human Rights Watch also apologised on behalf of the organisation. @maitlis No idea what happened. BBC interviews can be tough but not to that level. Seriously: Very sorry. Ken will pick this up in US time.  Speaking to Stroehlein said: ‘Black sites’ are places located outside of international jurisdiction or the jurisdiction of the US, which have been used in the past to torture. Black sites are so named because of the absence of legal oversight and scrutiny.                     Keep scrolling for next article

The head of a Human Rights Watch committed something of a social faux pas on Monday when he mistook a BBC journalist for a CIA operative in charge of torture ‘black sites’.

Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch made the accusation and then tweeted a link to an article, which featured a picture of broadcaster Emily Maitlis - who definitely isn’t a CIA torturer.

(Alternatively, Roth has just blown our media lizard illuminati conspiracy wide open, and we’ll be seeing you).

Of all the people Trump could have picked as deputy CIA director, he chosen woman who ran CIA black site for torture.

Picture: @ KenRoth /Twitter

Of course! "M" of James Bond clearly stands for 'Maitlis'.

Anywho.

The journalist, who has reported for NBC Asia, Channel 4, Sky News and the BBC responded.

Erm. This is me. And I’m pretty sure I never ran a CIA black site for torture.. #Newsnight

Emily Maitlis issues a denial/cover story (Picture: @ maitlis /Twitter)

Sure Emily. Whatever you say.

@maitlis it'd be an interesting Newsnight interview. 'minister, you haven't answered my question, now, put this towel over your face' — David Banks (@DBanksy) February 3, 2017

That's what you'd have us believe Emily. But someone who ran a CIA black site would pretend just that. You are hiding in plain sight. https://t.co/8YIhdY7zeN — Daniel Finkelstein (@Dannythefink) February 3, 2017

Roth's original tweet has since been deleted. He apologised twice.

Sorry, wrong photo for new CIA deputy director Gina Haspel. — Kenneth Roth (@KenRoth) February 3, 2017

Sorry, wrong photo for new CIA deputy director Gina Haspel. — Kenneth Roth (@KenRoth) February 3, 2017

Andrew Stroehlein, the European media director for Human Rights Watch also apologised on behalf of the organisation.

@maitlis No idea what happened. BBC interviews can be tough but not to that level. Seriously: Very sorry. Ken will pick this up in US time. — Andrew Stroehlein (@astroehlein) February 3, 2017

Speaking to indy100 Stroehlein said:

I'm glad the Newsnight team took a light-hearted approach to it. I think everyone realises that the real story here is not a fumbled tweet, but the fact that the Trump administration has just hired a person known for overseeing torture.

Black sites

‘Black sites’ are places located outside of international jurisdiction or the jurisdiction of the US, which have been used in the past to torture. Black sites are so named because of the absence of legal oversight and scrutiny.

Roth was in fact referring to the appointment of Gina Haspel.

According to the New York Times, Haspel, a CIA operative since 1985 previously ran Cat’s Eye.

It was the first known ‘black site’ which operated in Thailand, where the water boarding technique is reported to having taken place.

President Trump had previously advocated the use of torture - but in a press conference following his inauguration, he stated that although he believed in its efficacy he would defer to his secretary of defense James Mattis who does not believe in its use.

More: Kellyanne Conway made up a terrorist attack to justify Trump policies and people are mocking her for it

More: The countries around the world that think torture is justified