Atlanta Falcons center Alex Mack will play Super Bowl LI with fracture in left fibula
Sources: Mack to play in SB with fibula fracture
Sources: Mack to play in SB with fibula fracture Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl Sarkisian leaves Alabama to become Falcons OC Sources: LaFleur likely to be named Rams OC Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too Oh, baby: Parents call pre-rally newborn Brady One night showed how close (and how far) the Cowboys are from Super Bowl Seahawks can take valuable lessons away from Super Bowl LI Plenty on to-do list for 49ers' Kyle Shanahan, John Lynch Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Jerry Rice on Larry Fitzgerald's decision: 'I hope he's at peace with it' Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. 2 Related Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win Potential QB options for the Browns in 2017 Chiefs can beat Super Bowl teams -- in regular season Terrell Owens shouldn't hurt Calvin Johnson's HOF chances, but first ballot is no lock Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Worst 'bad beats' of the 2016-17 NFL season Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Steelers should stop giving up draft picks for other teams' cornerbacks Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Falcons center Alex Mack will play with a fractured left fibula in Super Bowl LI. (0:45) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN NFL Insider Joined ESPN in 2009 Former president of the Pro Football Writers of America and the author of four books Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Atlanta Falcons Pro Bowl center Alex Mack , one of the NFL's top free-agent acquisitions this past season, will play Super Bowl LI with a fracture in his left fibula that he suffered in the NFC Championship Game, according to sources. One source said that if this were the regular season, Mack could miss six to eight weeks, and the fact that's he's playing Sunday is a big concern among the Falcons. The Falcons' staff is confident Mack will hold up in pass-blocking, but is uncertain whether he will be effective on downfield blocks or whether his leg will hold up. Mack didn't practice the week after the NFC Championship Game, then was limited in practice this past week. "Getting him a chance to see him practice at full speed on Wednesday, Thursday was really important for me," Falcons coach Dan Quinn told ESPN's Ed Werder on Saturday. "I wanted to make sure he could go do his thing and just really fly and haul. He's such a unique player because of the quickness he plays with, so I was pleased to see that. We held him the week prior to heal and get right. I was pleased he got the work in. It was totally by design. We were going to give him half his normal reps on Wednesday and Thursday and let him do the normal Friday, and that's how we laid out the week for him. It went exactly like we thought." Mack will receive a pain-killing injection to help him get through the game, per sources. The fracture occurred above the plate that Mack had inserted in his left leg after he broke his fibula in 2014. The plate might have helped to support the leg, which suffered what one source theorized could be a "chip fracture." "I just know his toughness and strength is so great," Quinn said earlier this week. "The good thing is, I know he's feeling better than he did in the NFC Championship Game. But yeah, I'm concerned. I'm not panicked, but I'm concerned." Mack was hurt in the second quarter of the Falcons' 44-21 win against the Packers. He left the game for one play, then re-entered and played until sitting out the final series. Ben Garland is his backup. "This game, because of multiple fronts by New England, requires a lot of prep work by the center," Quinn said. "Identifying this look, this front, this player's positioning, [Mack and Garland] spend a lot of time in the film room together normally ... and I would say it's been even more these two weeks because this opponent requires even more." If Mack plays, he'll join an exclusive list of stars who played in the Super Bowl with major injuries, including former Rams defensive end Jack Youngblood, who played in Super Bowl XIV with a broken fibula; Charles Woodson, who played in Super Bowl XXVII after having surgery for a crack in his right fibula a month earlier; and Terrell Owens, who played in Super Bowl XXXIX with a fractured fibula and torn ligament in his right ankle that he suffered seven weeks before the game. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Atlanta Falcons Pro Bowl center Alex Mack, one of the NFL's top free-agent acquisitions this past season, will play Super Bowl LI with a fracture in his left fibula that he suffered in the NFC Championship Game, according to sources.

Playing in Super Bowl with Broken Leg Terrell Owens, WR, Eagles;

Super Bowl XXXIX Owens played 62 of 72 snaps in Super Bowl XXXIX, catching nine passes for 122 yards (six for 76 yards in the second half). This was despite him being seven weeks removed from a fractured fibula in his right leg and tearing a critical ligament in his right ankle, which required surgery. He also wasn't cleared to play by his surgeon, who inserted two screws in his ankle in that procedure. Charles Woodson and Tory James, CBs,

Raiders; Super Bowl XXXVII Woodson played in Super Bowl XXXVII after having surgery for a crack in his right fibula a month earlier. He originally suffered the injury Dec. 2 and had surgery on Dec. 26. Despite that, he played all three games that postseason, and had eight tackles and an interception in the Super Bowl. His teammate, James, also played through a broken leg during that postseason. Both players had plates implanted in their legs. Jack Youngblood, DE, Rams;

Super Bowl XIV Youngblood played in the Super Bowl loss against the Steelers with a broken fibula. He suffered the injury in the divisional round of the 1979 postseason against the Cowboys and continued to play the entire postseason and even the Pro Bowl. He was fitted with plastic braces and played every defensive down in the NFC Championship Game and Super Bowl. Youngblood had an iron man streak of 201 straight games played in his career. -- Adam Schefter

One source said that if this were the regular season, Mack could miss six to eight weeks, and the fact that's he's playing Sunday is a big concern among the Falcons.

The Falcons' staff is confident Mack will hold up in pass-blocking, but is uncertain whether he will be effective on downfield blocks or whether his leg will hold up. Mack didn't practice the week after the NFC Championship Game, then was limited in practice this past week.

"Getting him a chance to see him practice at full speed on Wednesday, Thursday was really important for me," Falcons coach Dan Quinn told ESPN's Ed Werder on Saturday. "I wanted to make sure he could go do his thing and just really fly and haul. He's such a unique player because of the quickness he plays with, so I was pleased to see that. We held him the week prior to heal and get right. I was pleased he got the work in. It was totally by design. We were going to give him half his normal reps on Wednesday and Thursday and let him do the normal Friday, and that's how we laid out the week for him. It went exactly like we thought."

Mack will receive a pain-killing injection to help him get through the game, per sources.

The fracture occurred above the plate that Mack had inserted in his left leg after he broke his fibula in 2014. The plate might have helped to support the leg, which suffered what one source theorized could be a "chip fracture."

"I just know his toughness and strength is so great," Quinn said earlier this week. "The good thing is, I know he's feeling better than he did in the NFC Championship Game. But yeah, I'm concerned. I'm not panicked, but I'm concerned."

Editor's Picks Alex Mack's fibula fracture could hurt Falcons' run game in Super Bowl With the way he runs and delivers blocks well into the second level, center Alex Mack is crucial to the success of the Falcons' ground game.

Mack was hurt in the second quarter of the Falcons' 44-21 win against the Packers. He left the game for one play, then re-entered and played until sitting out the final series. Ben Garland is his backup.

"This game, because of multiple fronts by New England, requires a lot of prep work by the center," Quinn said. "Identifying this look, this front, this player's positioning, [Mack and Garland] spend a lot of time in the film room together normally ... and I would say it's been even more these two weeks because this opponent requires even more."

If Mack plays, he'll join an exclusive list of stars who played in the Super Bowl with major injuries, including former Rams defensive end Jack Youngblood, who played in Super Bowl XIV with a broken fibula; Charles Woodson, who played in Super Bowl XXVII after having surgery for a crack in his right fibula a month earlier; and Terrell Owens, who played in Super Bowl XXXIX with a fractured fibula and torn ligament in his right ankle that he suffered seven weeks before the game.