Leicester City 0-3 Manchester United: Premier League – as it happened

Full time: Leicester 0-3 Manchester United Peep peep! For 82 minutes the match was uneventful, but a spurt of goals either side of half-time gave United a comfortable win. Henrikh Mkhitaryan was terrific. Leicester look broken mentally and it wouldn’t be a surprise if Claudio Ranieri lost his job in the next week or two. It would be utterly disgusting, but not surprising. Thanks for your company; bye! Updated       Pogba’s low, long-range bullet is well held by Schmeichel, plunging to his right. Schmeichel has had a terrific game and is one of the few Leicester players who looks up for the fight, at least in the football sense. A couple of them look up for some old-fashioned bare-knuckle tomfoolery.      De Gea is booked for perceived timewasting.      Valencia tries to stud a bouncing ball, misses and catches Gray in the chest. He’s lucky not to be booked.      I’m surprised Mkhitaryan doesn’t play more as a No10 for United. That means playing Pogba deeper and omitting Carrick or Herrera, so it’s not a straightforward decision, but Mkhitaryan is so good in that position and has been the best player on the pitch.      Marcus Rashford is replaced by Ashley Young, which might also be interpreted as a stiff two fingers to Anthony Martial.      Valencia’s cut-back is crashed over the bar from 15 yards by Mkhitaryan, who yells with frustration. It was a tricky first-time chance on the run, even for a player of his abundant class. Updated       Pogba turns away from Ranieri, who slips over embarrassingly.      Mkhitaryan takes Herrera’s pass in his stride and surges into the box, where Fuchs makes a brilliant last-man tackle to save a fourth goal. He has had a shocking game but that was superb. Mkhitaryan is so quick with the ball. Updated       This win moves United to within a point of Liverpool and two of Arsenal. The title race may be a non-event because of Conte and Kante but this fascinating battle to finish in the top four is surely going the distance.      Big Fella replaces Mata, who scored the third and put Jamie Vardy in an ejector seat in the first half.      The final indignity for Leicester: Marouane Fellaini is coming on.      Ibrahimovic makes a fool of the inept Ranieri on the right-hand side of the box before being tackled by Morgan.      It’s been suggested that some Leicester players asked the chairman to sack Ranieri. If they do it again, the chairman should gently concur that it is time for a change, and then hand them a personalised P45. Utter gits.       This is very good on referees, from Daniel Harris in the New Statesman.      United don’t seem particularly fussed about scoring a fourth; Leicester are too mentally weary to try to score a first. The next 20 minutes should be great fun!      “Granit Xhaha was given a straight red by Taylor for a tackle that was not as bad as a Mata’s,” says Colin Mackay. “Taylor also gave Xhaha a straight red for a tackle against Swansea earlier in the season. It was identical to one by Matic yesterday, for which he got a yellow (and the tackle was described as clever), while Janmaat did same for Burnley vs Arsenal and got no card at all. Is it really too much to ask that there is some consistency? If a two-footed tackle is an offence, make it a red card or a yellow card, not dependent on what side of bed the ref got out of on the day.” Referees get things wrong, and always will – even with television replays. They usually make fewer mistakes than anyone else involved in a football match though.      “I think Mkhitaryan would be able to pull off a Yosser Hughes-style ‘tache,” writes Conal Huetter. “Could also easily see Zlatan twirling a handlebar moustache in the manner of Snidely Whiplash or Dick Dastardly.”      Mata misses a sitter. He ran through on goal again after yet more abysmal defending from Claudio Ranieri, who tried to play offside with no pressure on the ball. Mata instinctively decided the best way to beat Schmeichel from a few yards was to lob him; unsurprisingly he couldn’t get the elevation and Schmeichel saved. Updated       Mahrez clips the free-kick through the wall and into the side netting at the near post. De Gea was unsighted, and then gave the wall a serve for splitting as they jumped.      Now Pogba is booked for a sliding foul on Ndidi. Another good decision from referee Anthony Taylor, who is living up to the billing we gave him in his preview essay.      Herrera is booked for a take-one-for-the-team foul on Vardy.      “ Rooney would look great with a Merv Hughes ,” says Bill Hargreaves.      This could get really messy for Leicester, who have been playing in a daze since that third goal.      “Referee based preview show?” weeps Hubert O’Hearn? “Oh no, it won’t stop there. We’ll soon enough have Calls of the Day in the evening. Tune in to see Mark Clattenburg and Howard Webb on the COTD couch! (I better not have given any broadcaster any ideas.)”      Rashford sweeps a left-footed shot towards goal from a tight angle and Schmeichel gets down smartly to push it behind.      There’s some talk that Mata should not be on the field after that first-half foul on Vardy. It was a really bad tackle but a yellow card was right. The player lucky not to be sent off was Vardy for that unseen kick at Bailly.      . Ibrahimovic and Mkhitaryan combined well to find Mata on the right. He played a square pass to Mkhitaryan, who returned it behind the dithering Fuchs for Mata to sidefoot under Schmeichel.      GOAL! Leicester 0-3 Manchester United (Mata 49) It’s over. Three goals in seven minutes for United. Updated       “I note the limited reference to # in your comments (I’m using the hash sign to refer to the most expensive player in the world after his most noteworthy contribution to the recent game in Liverpool came via his domination of the advertising hoardings rather than the midfield),” says Niall Sheerin. “I live in France and most everyone I know is flabbergasted by the fee paid for him and Ibra-esque ego for a very ordinary player. Can you explain the omerta surrounding that shameless self-promotion? Whatever happened to “do your talking on the pitch”? What would Roy Keane have to say? Has he ever done anything in red that would suggest he’s fit to wear the jersey?” Well, yes he has, clearly. But I do take your point. It sounds absurd given the fee but to some extent United bought potential.      Peep peep! Both teams have made half-time substitutions. Leicester have brought on King and Gray for Musa and Okazaki, while Daley Blind is on for Marcos Rojo.      “Do you think Leicester’s alleged Premiership victory was based on the delivery of a Wigginsesque package that has since been restricted to midweek usage?” asks Ian Copestake. At this juncture, I’m going with the Bobby Ewing narrative. “That Benali footage made me think one thing: there’s not enough moustaches in modern day football is there,” says Benjamin Dalmont. “They do look silly, but it would be variation. Who would be your pick out of today’s 22 if you could make one moustachioed? I’d go Mata, don’t know why.” Okazaki, mainly because he’s already got one so I’d have no work to do. I’m naturally lazy, can’t help it. It’s genetic! But Drinkwater would look good with the full Artur Jorge .      Half time: Leicester 0-2 Manchester United Peep peep! United were the better side after a good tactical switch from Jose Mourinho, though their two quickfire goals came as a surprise. Leicester have a job on to save the match. See you in 10 minutes for the second half. Updated       Okazaki has a shot blocked by Pogba, and Ndidi’s beautifully struck long-range follow-up is well held by the falling De Gea. Updated       That’s Ibrahimovic’s 20th goal of the season, the first time a United player has managed that post-Ferguson. Topics  Premier League   Leicester City   Manchester United

Henrikh Mkhitaryan starred and scored a fine opening goal as Manchester United eased to victory over a dazed Leicester