I became my mother-in-law's carer - but I just couldn't handle the stress of the job
I became my mother-in-law's carer - but I just couldn't handle the stress of the job
nce upon a time there was a wonderful, independent, feisty woman, Eleanor, to whom I was related by marriage. I called her my - 'beautiful mother’ - in preference to the more prosaic 'mother-in-law’, because she really had been a beauty in her youth, and right through to her early old age. But one day around the time of her 80th birthday Belle Mère sat down with an 'Oof!’ and never got up again without help. Her beloved Dachshund had died five years earlier and because she no longer had a dog to exercise , the muscles in her legs had wasted away through lack of use. Widowed and living alone, soon she could no longer wash, dress or feed herself. Belle Mère had been vibrant, witty, elegant and a progressive thinker. She had been an inveterate theatre goer, a lover of art and music, a prolific reader and a first-class flirt. But the day she sat down, she effectively gave up. Her joie de vivre subsided, her élan lost its lustre, her banter - once playful - became barbed and bitter. peculating on which went first - mind, memory or muscle - is like trying to resolve the chicken and egg conundrum. For a while my husband and I muddled along, trying to pretend that things couldn’t get worse, but when she took her first fall and started leaving saucepans on the hob we knew it was time to bring in dedicated full-time care . Two wonderful women were enlisted on a three-week-on, three-week-off basis. This worked well until Belle Mère took a violent and unaccountable dislike to one of them, and after a mighty spat we found ourselves minus a carer. It was decided that I should give it a go. was the obvious choice: my daughter had finished school and was travelling abroad, my husband was working evenings in the theatre, and as a writer I could work anywhere. Belle Mère’s house was comparatively remote - a 50 minute drive from our city centre home - but on the plus side there would be plenty of peace and quiet, a sunny garden to enjoy, and I would have time on my hands to finish my novel. Care minister, David Mowat made headlines last week with his pronouncement that, as a society, we should be assuming greater responsibility for our elderly parents . This is not unreasonable given that professional care is so cripplingly expensive (a friend, Mark, pays £1,400 a week to keep his father in a nursing-home). However, it is facile to expect that we are all able for the job. Naïvely, I thought I was: I’m fit, sunny-natured and competent, and we wanted Eleanor to stay on in her own home for as long as possible. But I overestimated my own resilience, even though I prepared myself in advance by assiduous online research. here is no shortage of advice; type 'dementia’ into Google and you could spend weeks web-wading: at my last count, 50,900,000 results were listed. Some forums were helpful, some really not. (A little dancing before bedtime, anyone? If I had tried that on with Belle Mère, she would not unreasonably have deduced that I was the one losing my mind.) In truth, there is no failsafe coping strategy. A saint would find the demands of the job tough-going. Emotionally, mentally and physically, it was the most taxing work I have ever done. After three weeks living in that house I almost cracked up. And the notion that I was cracking up fed on itself like Ouroboros, giving me the impression that I was doubly deranged, because really what should be easier than looking after a little old lady? The job was, after all, one that all mothers do, and one that I had done gladly in the past when I was rearing my daughter. I had been cook, housemaid, nursemaid, laundry maid, chambermaid, companion and chauffeur; on call 24/7, without let-up, without lie-in. ike me and my friends, David Mowat is a baby boomer ; we were the first generation to grow up genuinely expecting the world to become a better place. But innumerable boomers living with what is euphemistically known as the 'challenge’ of caring for elderly relatives, are in fact consumed with guilt and anxiety, many are suffering from exhaustion and depression, and most are broke . We hear it iterated on news programmes every day: in the past 30 years the percentage of the population aged 85 and over has more than doubled and will number some 3.5 million by 2035. The incidence of dementia is forecast to increase by 80 per cent, while cases of arthritis, heart disease and stroke will rise by 50 per cent. Mowat maintains that caring for our elderly parents is as germane to the natural order of things as caring for our own children. But now that we are all living so much longer thanks to medical intervention, I cannot agree. Longer life is not necessarily commensurate with quality of life, and geriatric care is an onerous responsibility that doesn’t carry with it the same rewards - the fun to be had, the optimism, the joy generated by a toddler for whom the future is a big shiny adventure. It is a strenuous undertaking for which few of us are trained, equipped, or temperamentally suited . hez Belle Mère, every time an insult or a spoon came flying my way, instead of remonstrating or explaining why such behaviour was unacceptable, as one would with a child, I kept my lip stoically zipped because otherwise a hellish row would ensue. Old and frail as Belle Mère was, she had always been in possession of a steely will, and now that she was beyond reason, that will was as unyielding as her body was feeble. By the time my three weeks were over, I knew I could never do the job again. I had been deluded to imagine that I was able for it, but here’s the thing: we’re women. We do these things (studies show that daughters are twice as likely to act as carers for their parents than their male siblings), or we imagine we can, or it’s taken for granted that we will do them when necessity arises. mong numerous friends who have done the same is Sarah, who also runs her own business. She speaks of the stress and the internecine strife that caring for her mother en famille generated ; the endless, mind-numbing form-filling demanded by sundry bureaucracies; the dietary requirements of three generations that meant she had to put four different dinners on the table every evening. She told me that she would have preferred her mother to die in palliative care rather than be subjected to the endless hospital visits, the tests and the treatments that made the last three years of her life unbearable. Then there’s Jenny, a freelancer, who describes the experience as “soul destroying” - but would “never choose to put [my mother] in some soulless place run by people only interested in the monetary side of infirmity and age, despite the mental and physical toll this has taken on both my mum and me.” Many, many more of my contemporaries are living sandwiched between a rock and a hard place , between the Gap Year and the Nursing Home, between penury and pension plans. They are all improvising wildly, all overwhelmed by responsibilities, and they all have their own stories to tell. ine took its toll on my health. Devoting all my energy to caring, I ignored the advice doled out by the experts: I neglected myself. I ate too little, drank too much, cried a lot, dropped half a stone and - like Belle Mère - lost my lustre. However, I learned a lesson that stayed with me. I do not want my daughter to ever have to do what I did. I don’t care how much she protests that she will want to do it, I don’t care how much societal pressure makes her feel that it’s incumbent on her (and her contemporaries) to shoulder the burden, I don’t care that it’s an ethical minefield. My own mother took control of her destiny when, as a card-carrying member of the Voluntary Euthanasia Society, she 'self-delivered’ at the comparatively young age of 63, upon learning that her cancer was terminal. My father was still active and working as an architect when he died at the age of 83. The prospect of losing control over my life is why, after turning 60 last year I had a tattoo inked along my collarbone bearing the legend 'Do Not Resuscitate’. n my forthcoming novel, , the narrator makes the following observation: “I wonder how many forty and fifty and even sixty-something women are caring for their parents? Maybe loads of these women have just finished rearing a family, and have been looking forward to their newfound freedom. Maybe loads of them got pregnant late in life thanks to IVF, and are still bringing up small children? And maybe - now that there’s a new miracle drug that they say will postpone the menopause - maybe in the not-too-distant future, fifty-something-year old women will be breastfeeding their babies and spoon-feeding their mothers at the same time ?’ I wrote the first draft of the novel not long after Belle Mère died several years ago, aged 93. By then she was bed-bound, residing in a care home, barely able to see, hear or speak. She no longer knew her loved ones. Among the emotions I went through of grief, bereavement and regret was one that felt uncomfortably inappropriate. I experienced a still, quiet sense of relief.

Once upon a time there was a wonderful, independent, feisty woman, Eleanor, to whom I was related by marriage. I called her my belle mère - 'beautiful mother’ - in preference to the more prosaic 'mother-in-law’, because she really had been a beauty in her youth, and right through to her early old age.

But one day around the time of her 80th birthday Belle Mère sat down with an 'Oof!’ and never got up again without help. Her beloved Dachshund had died five years earlier and because she no longer had a dog to exercise, the muscles in her legs had wasted away through lack of use. Widowed and living alone, soon she could no longer wash, dress or feed herself.

Belle Mère had been vibrant, witty, elegant and a progressive thinker. She had been an inveterate theatre goer, a lover of art and music, a prolific reader and a first-class flirt. But the day she sat down, she effectively gave up. Her joie de vivre subsided, her élan lost its lustre, her banter - once playful - became barbed and bitter.