Car Crashes Into Cheesecake Factory Where an Explosive Was Detonated Two Days Earlier
Car Crashes Into Restaurant Where Explosive Detonated
Shares               It's been a rough few days for the Pasadena, California, location of The Cheesecake Factory. On Thursday night, a man tossed a homemade explosive device into the restaurant , temporarily closing it down until the following day. No one was injured, and police are still seeking a suspect. Then on Saturday afternoon, a vehicle crashed into the restaurant's east wall, according to police. The vehicle's driver complained of pain, Pasadena Police Department Lt. Mark Goodman reportedly said. There were no injuries inside the restaurant, located in Old Pasadena, related to the crash. Police said the two incidents are not related.    Shares                  Car Crashes Into Restaurant Where Explosive Detonated   Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary After Pence Breaks Tie   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   Iran's Top Leader Mocks 'Newcomer' Trump   Manhunt Intensifies in Southeast for Murder Suspect, Accomplice   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC With 4 Children Reported Dead   Romania President: We Are in a Crisis   Trump Travel Ban Faces Biggest Legal Test Yet   Hillary Clinton Releases Video Statement: 'Future Is Female'   US Trade Deficit Last Year Hit Highest Level Since 2012   Trump Advisers' Tax Credit Plan for Infrastructure Has Risks   UN: Israeli Settlement Law Crosses 'Thick Red Line'   Amnesty: Up to 13,000 Hanged in Syria's 'Slaughterhouse'   Voters Await Economic Revival in a Part of Pro-Trump America   Ben Stiller Shares Stories from Meeting Refugees in Jordan   Life in Limbo: Diary of a Syrian Mom Affected by Travel Ban   With Travel Ban on Hold, Iraqi Family Arrives in 2nd Attempt to Reach US   Queens Jogger Murder Suspect Allegedly Said He 'Lost It'   Woman Captive for Decade Hopes New TV Role Helps the Missing   Not Guilty Plea From Man Who Shot Ex-NFL Player McKnight   3 Former Bachelors Advise Nick Viall After Triple Elimination   Defective Axle Blamed for 2013 Fiery North Dakota Derailment   Kitesurfer in Chief Obama Hits Beach With Richard Branson   Who We Know Will Be at the Oscars 2017   1st 'Iron Fist' Trailer Tells Origin Story of Danny Rand   $250M Los Angeles Mega Mansion Is Most Expensive US Listing

It's been a rough few days for the Pasadena, California, location of The Cheesecake Factory.

On Thursday night, a man tossed a homemade explosive device into the restaurant, temporarily closing it down until the following day. No one was injured, and police are still seeking a suspect.

Then on Saturday afternoon, a vehicle crashed into the restaurant's east wall, according to police.

The vehicle's driver complained of pain, Pasadena Police Department Lt. Mark Goodman reportedly said.

There were no injuries inside the restaurant, located in Old Pasadena, related to the crash.

Police said the two incidents are not related.

KABC

ABC News' Matthew Fuhrman contributed to this report.