French female politician at centre of Ukip funding investigation moves into Nigel Farage's London home
French female politician at centre of Ukip funding investigation moves into Nigel Farage's London home
igel Farage is sharing his £4 million Chelsea home with a French female politician who heads a think tank at the centre of an investigation into the alleged misspending of European Union funding of Ukip, according to reports. Laure Ferrari, the executive director of the the Institute for Direct Democracy in Europe (IDDE), has been living in the former Ukip leader's house for the past week. Mr Farage told the the that they had a "working relationship" and Ms Ferrari had nowhere else to stay in London. he Electoral Commission has opened an investigation into whether Ukip accepted "impermissible donations" from the Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe (ADDE) and the IDDE. The claims have been strongly contested by Ukip. The European Parliament had advised the commission that "it has formally concluded that ADDE and IDDE used EU grant funding for the benefit of Ukip in breach of its rules and therefore, these expenses were declared as non-eligible for the financing". Ms Ferrari, who first became involved in politics as a result of a chance meeting with Mr Farage 10 years ago while she was working as a waitress in Strasbourg, said she had been forced to move out of her own flat after the European Parliament stopped IDDE's funding. "I have no trustworthy friends in London who could have hosted me. I asked and he accepted. He is just trying to be helpful," she told the . r Farage also  told the newspaper: "She is someone I have worked with and known well for a long time who wanted somewhere to stay for a week that wouldn't cost her any money. It's a working relationship." Last month Mr Farage said that he spent most week nights at a "bachelor pad" and denied that he had split from his German-born wife, Kirsten.

Nigel Farage is sharing his £4 million Chelsea home with a French female politician who heads a think tank at the centre of an investigation into the alleged misspending of European Union funding of Ukip, according to reports.

Laure Ferrari, the executive director of the the Institute for Direct Democracy in Europe (IDDE), has been living in the former Ukip leader's house for the past week.

Mr Farage told the the Mail on Sunday that they had a "working relationship" and Ms Ferrari had nowhere else to stay in London.