'American Idol' Season 10 Winner Scotty McCreery Cheers on the Patriots at Super Bowl Rally
'American Idol' Season 10 Winner Scotty McCreery Cheers on the Patriots at Super Bowl Rally
On-The-Field Report: Lady Gaga Leaves Her Heart on the Dance Floor at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl 2017 Photos: Lady Gaga, Hamilton, & More! Country Stars Agree: Luke Bryan Nailed the National Anthem at Super Bowl 2017 Super Bowl Commercials Don't Shy Away From Politics 'American Idol' Season 10 Winner Scotty McCreery Cheers on the Patriots at Super Bowl Rally  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  What’s a nice North Carolina boy like Scotty McCreery doing rooting for a New England Patriots victory in Sunday’s Super Bowl battle? The eason 10 winner said he was born that way. “My dad grew up in [New] England — Maine and New Hampshire — so he kind of raised me that way from an early age and it kind of stuck, so I’m glad,” McCreery told Fox 5 News . “I love the Pats Nation. It’s been fun.” McCreery offered his support to the team performing at a Houston rally on Saturday (Feb. 4) alongside Patriots team owner Robert Kraft, tight end Rob Gronkowski, cheerleaders and the team mascot.  The singer donned a Pats football jersey (with quarterback Tom Brady's name on the back) and performed a set that included his hit “See You Tonight,” as well as a cover of Texas native George Strait ’s “Check Yes or No” for the packed crowd. The New England Patriots take on the Atlanta Falcons in the Super Bowl today (Feb. 5). Lady Gaga will take the field for the halftime show. Watch McCreery cover George Strait below: Country star & #patriots super fan @ScottyMcCreery singing George Strait at @Patriots fans rally #SB51  #Houston  #NFLExperience  #onemore  pic.twitter.com/pFsCks6nzn  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Scotty McCreery performs at a New England Patriots rally in downtown Houston the day before Super Bowl LI on Feb. 4, 2017.

What’s a nice North Carolina boy like Scotty McCreery doing rooting for a New England Patriots victory in Sunday’s Super Bowl battle? The American Idol season 10 winner said he was born that way.

“My dad grew up in [New] England — Maine and New Hampshire — so he kind of raised me that way from an early age and it kind of stuck, so I’m glad,” McCreery told Fox 5 News. “I love the Pats Nation. It’s been fun.”

McCreery offered his support to the team performing at a Houston rally on Saturday (Feb. 4) alongside Patriots team owner Robert Kraft, tight end Rob Gronkowski, cheerleaders and the team mascot.

The singer donned a Pats football jersey (with quarterback Tom Brady's name on the back) and performed a set that included his hit “See You Tonight,” as well as a cover of Texas native George Strait’s “Check Yes or No” for the packed crowd.

The New England Patriots take on the Atlanta Falcons in the Super Bowl today (Feb. 5). Lady Gaga will take the field for the halftime show.

Watch McCreery cover George Strait below: