Tom Brady explains how Bill Belichick has 'brainwashed' the Patriots into a well-oiled machine
Tom Brady explains how Bill Belichick has 'brainwashed' the Patriots into a well-oiled machine


In two weeks, Tom Brady and Bill Belichick will make their seventh Super Bowl appearance, the most of any player-coach combo in NFL history.

The Patriots are a well-oiled machine, fine-tuned to produce 12-, 13-, and 14-win seasons year after year and make the playoffs.

According to Brady, this is in part due to the standard Belichick has set for the team and the culture he's established.

During his weekly interview on WEEI's "Kirk and Callahan" on Monday, Brady went as far as to say Belichick has "brainwashed" the Patriots.

"We have a sign on our wall that says 'Doing the right thing for the team when it may not be the right thing for you.' And that's just putting everything aside and ignoring the noise and all the positive things that people may say about you, all the negative things people may say about you and just believing in yourself and not making excuses.

...

"I think our coach does a great job of never buying into that B.S. He never makes it about one player, he never makes it about one play, he never makes it about one call, or one situation. It's all about all of us collectively trying to doÂ the best thing we can for the team to help us win. And he never lets his foot off the gas pedal, so really, when you come to our team, it's just, you're brain-washed. It's just the way it goes. It has a lot of success."

By all accounts of current and former Patriots, Belichick runs a tight ship where players have to be prepared and be in line.

While stressing a team-first attitude and striving to win aren't exactly groundbreaking measures, Belichick's success makes it impossible for players to argue against. Whether the Patriots win the Super Bowl remains to be seen, but with yet another appearance and AFC Championship, it doesn't seem like the culture around the team will be changing any time soon.