Printable prop bet scorecard for Atlanta Falcons-New England Patriots
Printable Super Bowl LI prop bet scorecard
Printable Super Bowl LI prop bet scorecard 1 Related Westgate offers 400 prop bets for the Super Bowl Biggest Super Bowl LI bets Musburger opens new studio in Vegas sportsbook Super Bowl LI to attract estimated $4.7B in bets Every team's way-too-early odds to win next year's Super Bowl How I'm holding a 100-1 ticket on the Falcons More states look to regulate daily fantasy Westgate offers 400 prop bets for the Super Bowl Biggest betting events of 2017 Total handle for Pegasus came in at $15.68 million 2017 World Series of Poker schedule includes 74 bracelet events Mayweather: Sometimes I bet 'millions' How Counter-Strike spawned a $5 billion gambling market you've never heard of More bets on Browns to win SB LI than Falcons Patriots open as 3-point Super Bowl favorites Money still heavy on Warriors to win title in Vegas How a Starbucks barista won $900K: 'The wiseguys would probably kick me out of the room' Latest futures odds Billy Walters wants insider-trading case dropped Senate bill looks to define and tax 'chance' games Tide early Vegas favorites for next season's title Why Microsoft, Google could be bookmakers of the future 2 Related Potential problems with legalized gambling in U.S. The best bettors of the future? They won't be human Starbucks barista claims $900K SuperContest Trump and Leicester City? Two of gambling's biggest upsets of the year Looking back at 2016 in the world of poker Proposed tax rules would benefit horseplayers Patriots' push costs bettor $100K, 15-leg parlay Wiseguys continue to lose money on Browns Those who bet -- or didn't and wish they had -- on Leicester City 3 Related How Leicester City's 5,000-1 odds compare to other long shots Graphic of Leicester City's incredible odds Biggest betting moments of Leicester City's Prem League title DraftKings CEO says merger will not increase players' fees DraftKings, FanDuel reveal merger agreement The inside story of the quick rise and quicker fall of DraftKings and FanDuel Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Runs day-to-day editorial operations at Chalk, ESPN.com's gambling section Joined ESPN in 2010 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Watching Super Bowl LI on Sunday but don't want to put any money on the game? Fear not, ESPN Chalk has you covered with our prop bet scorecard. We've selected 23 props from the roughly 400 released by the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook for you to choose from. It's simple: Pick A or B for each one. Have fun! Printable PDF of prop bet scorecard Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Watching Super Bowl LI on Sunday but don't want to put any money on the game? Fear not, ESPN Chalk has you covered with our prop bet scorecard.

We've selected 23 props from the roughly 400 released by the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook for you to choose from. It's simple: Pick A or B for each one.

Have fun!