100 Genius Hacks Guaranteed To Make A Parent’s Job Easier
100 Genius Hacks Guaranteed To Make A Parent’s Job Easier
Place tape over the speakers on your kids’ toys to lower the volume. Via mommingonpurpose . Put a roll of butcher paper above a frame so your kid can draw a new masterpiece every day. Store Play-Doh in a carousel for k-cups — it makes it easy for your kids to find the color they want and looks cool. Find this organizational hack and others at What’s Up Moms . Easily shape snow into blocks using a rectangular-shaped Tupperware container. Build an igloo, make a wall… go crazy! Via michelle_ssb1 . Put a cupcake liner under a popsicle to keep it from melting all over your kid’s hand. Strange but true — a cucumber will work this way too because it will soak up the juices. Via amandafromtx . Make mealtime less messy by putting ketchup under your kid’s hot dog instead of on top of it. Via the book . Keep your candy safe from your kids by stashing it inside a healthy snack’s empty packaging. Sorry, kids. Via pishposhbabydotcom . Have a kid who constantly pulls off their diaper (or strips naked)? Try putting their onesie on backwards. Via Greta Cheney . Stop your kid from turning the lights off and on (and off again) with a piece of plastic from a milk jug. Via Parent Hacks . Use a straw to remove a strawberry’s stem in seconds.  View on Instagram Stop your kids from misplacing their shoes by placing a shoe rack by the front door. Via beckylscott9 . Put up a “spy window” so you don’t have to go all the way downstairs every time you want to check on the kids. Via Redhead Can Decorate . Freeze yogurt to make ice pops your kid will love. Out of your diaper pail’s refill bags? Use a trash bag instead. Hang your kid’s toy cars on the wall using magnet knife holders. Via The Style Files . Stick a command hook on the back of a high chair to hang bibs. Cut pancakes into toddler-sized bites with a pizza cutter. Via Cook and Craft me Crazy . Use the envelope folds on a onesie for their intended purpose — to allow you to pull a onesie DOWN off your poopy baby instead of over their head and making a huge mess. This is way better than getting poop in your baby’s hair, don’t you think? See a video demonstrating this hack here . Make storing and organizing Lego bricks a snap using a shoe storage bag. Via Kids Activities Blog . Cut a sticker down the middle, then put one half inside each of your kid’s shoes. This way they’ll always know which shoe goes on which foot. Via One Creative Housewife . Wash baby socks together in a laundry bag so you never lose another one again. Where all of those socks disappear to? Via momhacks4everyday . Raise the triangles on the sides of a juice box to make it easier for little kids to lift. If your kid is afraid of monsters at night, make some “monster spray” to spray in their room before bed. The spray is really just inexpensive lavender body spray, but it will put your kid’s mind at ease — and make the room smell good! Pack an extra shirt for yourself in your diaper bag so that when your baby spits up on you in public, you’re covered. Stop a public toilet from suddenly flushing and scaring your kid by putting toilet paper over the sensor. Via the book . A frozen sponge in a ziplock bag makes a super affordable ice pack you won’t mind your kid losing. Via 1crazyhousetips . Put plastic wrap over the top of a cup to seriously cut down on spills. When there are no sippy cups around, this will do. An Altoid container is the perfect way to store crayons in your purse. Via Naturally Blessed Mama . Freeze a CapriSun for six hours to turn it into a seriously kid-approved slushy. Once it’s ready, you just cut off the top and serve with a spoon. Via Girl. Inspired . Use a shower rod and small plastic baskets to make the perfect way to store your kid’s bath toys. Keep pacifiers clean in your bag by putting them in soufflé/portion cups. The perfect excuse to make another trip to Baja Fresh. To detangle doll hair, fill a small spray bottle with fabric softener and water. Make eating healthy snacks fun by putting them in an ice cube tray. Via the_not_so_perfect_mom_of_6 . Missing things you need? Set your kid loose on a scavenger hunt to find them.  View on Instagram Now this is how you find your lost sunglasses. Via ruby1508 . Stop your kid from squirting out too much soap by adding a rubber band to the head of the dispenser’s pump. Turn an old lotion bottle into a faucet extender so you kid can reach the water. Tape is great for picking up sparkles, glitter, and other teeny-tiny things your kid spills. Via 7starcleaning . If you put a dryer sheet in a pan before you soak it overnight, the baked-on crust will wipe away in the morning.  View on Instagram Have a picky eater? Draw fun faces on eggs to make them more appealing. Via amsuwi . Make watermelon easier for kids to eat by cutting it into little sticks. Via begley_fitness . Put freezie pops upright in your freezer before freezing for a clean, mess-free cut. Keep your kid from wasting toilet paper by putting a “You shall not pass!” line on the wall. Via The Virtuous Wife . Kid about to make a messy craft? Place Press’n Seal wrap on their clothes so they don’t get dirty. Via Raddest Mom . Keep your kid patient while waiting for the doctor by letting them draw on the exam table paper.  View on Instagram Ask your nurse if this is okay first, of course! Via parenting_with_peer_review . Use a lint roller to quickly pick up glitter. Via Real Simple . Attach a clip to the end of your kid’s bubble wand to keep it from falling into the container. And to keep from having to repeatedly fish it out. Via athomewithlayla . Make a pretty terrific diaper caddy out of a wine carrier. Via ladbabyofficial . Use an empty wipes container to store travel snacks for your kid. It’s the ideal size for a kid’s hands — and you can even keep food cold by putting a reusable ice pack at the bottom. Via practicalparentingideas . Make keeping track of your kid’s dosages easy by writing a chart on the side of the medicine bottle. Via alanacvalentine . Keep toddlers entertained on a flight by letting them play with gel clings on the window. Via teachermama1138 . Upcycle unused Lego bricks into an impressive bathroom organizer. Via nguyen.jody . Use coffee filters as no-stress “snack bowls” for your kids. They’re the perfect portion size for kids and you don’t have to wash them! Via narrdog . Stop your kid from whining “I’m hungry!” by putting snack bins in your pantry. Via princessandthepbaby . Have a kid who refuses to take their medicine? Dip a lollipop into the medicine, then let them suck it. Repeat until all is gone. Via billygoatbabygear . Gently stroke your baby’s face with a tissue to get them to sleep in less than 40 seconds. Every baby is different, so yours might not respond the same way to this tissue hack . If not, try gently massaging your baby’s scalp, forehead, and belly. Make “Mother’s milk pacifiers” to soothe teething pain and give your baby sustenance at the same time. Learn how here . Relieve gas by gently pushing your baby’s knees toward their chest. Learn other ways to relieve gas pains here . Use this gift card trick to make sure you don’t end up short when the holidays arrive. Via mommawhips . Vacuum seal diapers to make them more portable. This is an especially good idea if you’re going on vacation and only have so much room in your suitcase. Use a crib sheet to protect an outdoor baby from bug bites and too much sun. Via Little Baby Watson . Relieve discomfort in your baby by massaging their feet. Some parents believe in reflexology, some don’t. If your baby is miserable, however, you’ll be willing to try anything! The best time to cut your baby’s nails is twenty minutes after they’ve fallen asleep. Your baby will be in a deep sleep, and you’ll be able to trim their nails without any squirming. Stash wipes and a few extra diapers in the back of your car so you can always change your baby in a pinch. At some point you will forget to pack diapers before you leave the house, but if you’ve taken this precaution you’ll be able to survive the gaffe. Keep your toddler busy by letting them “paint” the fence with water. A great, mess-free activity for summer. Via halamerola . Childproof cabinet doors using hair ties. Remove marker and crayon from most surfaces using toothpaste. Attach a sippy cup to your kid’s car seat so you won’t have to turn around and pick it up every time they drop it. Learn how at We Have Aars . Put a key ring on your child’s jacket to make it easier for them to zip up. Use clothespins to keep your kid’s toothbrush from touching dirty counters while on the road. Put masking tape on the carpet to make a race track for your kid’s toy cars. Use shoe organizers to organize your kid’s things in the car. Stop your kid from falling out of bed with a pool noodle and fitted sheet. Pool noodles also make a surprisingly effective way to babyproof a coffee table — especially in a pinch.  View on Instagram Keep birthday cake from going stale with white bread and toothpicks. Via Created By Diane . Dollar Store shower caddies make perfect snack baskets for kids on movie night. Via neniandme . Keep your kid busy by letting them draw on — and in — a cardboard box. Pizza boxes will also keep your kids busy — they make perfect canvases for finger painting. Keep your kids’ toys germ-free by washing them in the dishwasher. Keep your toddler entertained with a colander and some pipe cleaners.  View on Instagram So easy, so cheap. Make PB&J sandwiches less messy by using the jelly pocket method. Learn how at Lifehacker . Keep your kid’s burrito from falling apart by serving it in a mason jar. Via paula1886 . Dollar store silverware drawers are great for organizing siblings’ toothbrushes. Attach your kid’s bubble wand to a pole or wall to make a spill-proof bubble station. Hang board games on the wall of a play room to save space (and to add a bit of flair). Via lifehacks . Hot-glue the holes in the bottom of bath toys to stop mold from forming. Keep your kids on task at home — and teach them time management skills — by color coding a clock. Use shopping cart restraints to stop your toddler from dropping their sippy cup onto the floor. Via somemotherstuff . Got a kid who hates baths? Throw some glow sticks into the water to make bathing a super-fun activity. Via calendargirl74 . Put the lid from a pack of wet wipes onto a bag of chips to keep it fresh way longer.  View on Instagram This comes in especially handy when you only let your kid eat a handful here and there. Save space when packing by rolling your kid’s outfits instead of folding them. Added bonus: You won’t have to worry about picking out outfits for your kid each day. Via Noise Covered In Dirt . Make a self-serve breakfast station so your kid can get their own breakfast and not have to drag you out of bed. Does your kid yell “too cold!” when they need an ice pack? Give them a bag of frozen marshmallows instead. Via Kids Activities Blog . Make cleaning Lego bricks easy by putting them in the washing machine. Fix a doll with a broken “creepy” eye by super glueing it open. Via sherocksthecradle . Bandaids can be used to baby proof electrical outlets in a pinch. Use this ingenious hack to make your kids think twice before they act up again. Dawn, hydrogen peroxide, and baking soda will get set-in baby food stains out of a onesie. Keep ice cream soft by storing it in a freezer bag. And lastly, use your refrigerator to make an easy wine dispenser. My adult life just peaked   19 Things You'll Only Know If You've Ever Whipped Your...    17 Kids Who Aren't Playing Around  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.