Former athlete Sophie Cape says 'experimental' surgery crushed Olympic hopes and left her scarred



Former athlete Sophie Cape says 'experimental' surgery crushed Olympic hopes and left her scarred

Updated

A former elite downhill ski racer and track cyclist has revealed she underwent "experimental" body-modification surgery after consultation with sporting bodies including the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS).

Key points: Former AIS talent scout says organisation "got it wrong" when it came to a women's cycling program

Female athletes involved in intense training to provide competition for then-rising cycling star Anna Meares ahead of Athens and Beijing Olympic Games

Sophie Cape's experience in the cycling program is now used as a "case study of what not to do"

Now an award-winning artist based in Melbourne, Sophie Cape has told the ABC's Australian Story that the surgical intervention was suggested as treatment for unexplained extreme leg pain she suffered while training as a track cyclist at the Western Australian Institute of Sport (WAIS) in the early-mid 2000s.

But the extreme, invasive surgery — carried out after consultation with the AIS, the WAIS, and doctors in Perth and Melbourne — was ultimately unsuccessful, and her sporting career ended.

"At first they thought I had some form of compartment syndrome in my quads, which has never been seen before, so it was a long shot," Cape told Australian Story.

"So what we decided to do was cut the fascia off my quad muscles. Effectively what they did was strip the sheath off the outside of the muscles like the skin on the outside of a sausage to allow them to breathe, or grow, without restraint."

Initially that operation improved her performance, with Cape recording faster times.

But she said the "debilitating" pain soon returned and it was "much worse".

"That's when we tried the vascular surgery. They thought maybe we could widen the arteries going into the legs," Cape said.

"They cut my stomach open on both sides and took veins out of my shins, and put patch grafts into my arteries to make them larger."

Cape said she agreed to the radical operations because she was suffering from extreme leg pain, wanted to keep training and was "desperate to win at all costs".

She did not tell her family of her intention to try the surgery.

Elite athletes will leave 'no stone unturned'

Jason Gulbin — talent identification and development manager at the AIS from 2000 to 2013 — recruited Cape into a revolutionary track cycling program which the institute implemented after the Sydney Olympic Games.

The AIS set up the program to develop competition for the then-rising track cycling star, Anna Meares, ahead of the Athens and Beijing Olympic Games.

After eight weeks' initial training at the AIS in Canberra, athletes in the talent development program were dispersed around the country into various state sporting institutes. The WAIS gave Cape a scholarship, and she soon emerged as a talent to watch.

"She was very coachable and progressed very quickly … she started to emerge at the senior national level at the National Track Cycling Championships within a couple of years," Mr Gulbin said.

Mr Gulbin also acknowledged to Australian Story that the talent development program Cape participated in was now used as a "case study of what not to do in terms of follow up development".

"Unfortunately we didn't get the planning right around that and we relied very heavily on the advice of … the state association to take care of the development of these girls," he said.

"Clearly we got it wrong."

Cape's progress was hampered by continuing leg pain.

"Sophie underwent two very invasive surgeries designed to try and help her," Mr Gulbin said.

"Elite athletes are not normal people. And so they are looking for the edge … and they will leave no stone unturned in doing that."

Former AIS talent scout says surgeries a 'last resort'

Cape's mother, Ann Cape, was devastated to learn her daughter had agreed to the surgeries, describing the operations as "outrageous" and "horrendously extreme".

"I got the impression that all this was experimenting on athletes to see if this would help," Ms Cape said.

"She could have said 'no' if it was advised, but … [elite athletes] are pretty impressionable and pretty driven… if someone says 'this could fix a problem', I think it's very tempting to go ahead and do it."

Cape said: "In the end it was my decision."

When asked if she would now change her mind, she said "no".

Mr Gulbin rejected the description of the operations as "experimental body modifications".

"My experience in working with the medical staff at the AIS is they're super qualified, super confident, very risk averse," he said.

"It's not in their interest to be nominating surgery willy-nilly. Surgery often is a very last resort."

The extreme, invasive surgery performed on Cape was ultimately unsuccessful and her sporting career ended.

Doctors now believe her physical problems arose due to "severe over-training".

"I did feel like a guinea pig, a lab rat," Cape said.

"I do have chronic pain. One of the consequences of so much over-training was that I now have an enlarged heart.

"It's a result of stress and strain, your heart is consistently under pressure, it stretches and builds up scar tissue and stays that way."

'Art saved me'

Cape has since conquered her physical and psychological trauma, transforming herself into one of Australia's most celebrated young artists.

She draws on her catastrophic sporting injuries for inspiration in her artworks.

Cape creates on a grand scale, often in natural environments, and using materials she finds outdoors such as animal bones and soil, as well as painting with her own blood.

"I go to the doctor and have my blood taken out on a regular basis and then work with that," she said.

In 2010, one of Australia's greatest living artists, John Olsen, awarded Cape his coveted John Olsen Prize for Figure Drawing while she was a student at the National Art School.

"My son and I saw Sophie's work and were immediately astonished by the sophistication of it, the drive of it. Very strong stuff," Olsen said.

His art dealer son Tim Olsen offered the young graduate an exhibition. Cape now holds regular sell-out shows at his Sydney gallery. She has won a swag of art prizes, including the Portia Geach prize for a portrait of actor Dan Wyllie.

For Cape, her epiphany is clear: "Art saved me."

Topics: visual-art, painting, sport, cycling, human-interest, melbourne-3000, perth-6000, canberra-2600

First posted