Dozens killed as heavy snow hits Afghanistan and Pakistan
Dozens killed as heavy snow hits Afghanistan and Pakistan


Dozens of people in Afghanistan and Pakistan were killed, including women and children, after heavy snow and avalanches buried remote villages over the weekend.

In eastern Afghanistan, at least 50 people died and tens more were missing on Sunday after an avalanche buried a village in Nuristan, provincial governor Hafiz Abdul Qayum said.

'Based on information from district officials, 50 dead bodies have been recovered and the number may increase,' he said.

Afghan tea vendor Imran, 15, prepares tea for customers on a hillside during snowfall near Qargha Lake on the outskirts of Kabul on February 4

An Afghan man walks with a donkey as they head to collect water in Kabul, on January 27, 2017

At least five other deaths from collapsed roofs were reported elsewhere in Nuristan.

In the northern province of Badakhshan, over the past two days as many as 19 people were killed and 17 injured by avalanches, collapsed roofs and road accidents, said Naweed Frotan, a spokesman for the provincial governor.

The government was working to reach at least 12 districts in Badakhshan that had been completely cut off, he said.

Heavy snow also blanketed the Afghan capital of Kabul, where the government closed its offices on Sunday.

The government declared a public holiday due to the heavy snowfall.

In neighbouring Pakistan, at least 13 people, including children, were killed by an avalanche in the northern Chitral district, with more residents believed to still be trapped in collapsed houses.

Severe weather hits Pakistan every year, with avalanches in winter and flash floods in summer disrupting lives (FILE PHOTO)

Nizamud Shah, the commander of Chitral Scouts force, said the avalanche struck the town of Chitral late Saturday.

He said rescuers have retrieved 13 bodies and efforts are underway to reach any survivors

The avalanche struck a village of 25 houses, but evacuation operations were delayed by the weather, Chitral Deputy Commissioner Shahab Hameed Yousafzai.

'There is no way to rush the injured persons to Chitral hospital because all roads in the valley have been blocked due to heavy snowfall,' he said.

Rescue workers extract a car from under snow in Tajikistan that also experienced avalanches last week

In a separate incident in the Chitral region, a government rescue worker was killed when an avalanche struck a check post near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, the commanding officer told Reuters.

The snow wreaked havoc on major roads in Afghanistan, including the Kabul-Kandahar Highway, where police and soldiers had to rescue around 250 cars and buses trapped by the storm, said Jawid Salangi, a spokesman for Ghazni province, where as much as two metres of new snow was reported.

'Fortunately we arrived on time and there is not a single casualty,' he said, noting that officials expected the road to reopen quickly.

The Salang pass north of Kabul was also closed under as much as two and a half metres of snow, according to police general Rajab Salangi, who oversees the area.

'It will remain blocked until the snow is cleared from the main road, facilities are provided and it is safe to travel,' he said.

Last week in Tajikistan, which borders Afghanistan, a series of avalanches killed seven people.

At least five people on a highway linking the capital Dushanbe with Khujand, Tajikistan's second largest city, the emergency services committee said.