Melissa McCarthy makes a better Sean Spicer than Sean Spicer on 'SNL'
Melissa McCarthy makes a better Sean Spicer than Sean Spicer on 'SNL'
If there's one (small) good thing about Donald Trump's presidency, it's giving America's best comedians a smorgasbord of weirdness to tuck into. On , Melissa McCarthy took a turn as Press Secretary Sean Spicer and it was brutally good. Ill-fitting suit? Check. Alternative facts? Check. Insane gum addiction ? Check and check. SEE ALSO: Trump’s Muslim Ban could have doomed Apple Parodying Spicer's infamously testy relationship with the press, Spicer/McCarthy used his bully pulpit Saturday to physically bully journalists. He booed the tried to explain why Steve Bannon is on the National Security Council using a giant key and visor as props, and deployed a super soaker filled with soapy water to harass journalists when they asked annoying questions. Oh and that Muslim travel ban of Trump's? "The travel ban is not a ban, which makes it not a ban." Honestly, if McCarthy took over an actual White House press briefing no one would notice. BONUS: This teacher has gone viral with his unique handshakes for his students

If there's one (small) good thing about Donald Trump's presidency, it's giving America's best comedians a smorgasbord of weirdness to tuck into.

On Saturday Night Live, Melissa McCarthy took a turn as Press Secretary Sean Spicer and it was brutally good. Ill-fitting suit? Check. Alternative facts? Check. Insane gum addiction? Check and check.

Parodying Spicer's infamously testy relationship with the press, Spicer/McCarthy used his bully pulpit Saturday to physically bully journalists.

He booed the New York Times, tried to explain why Steve Bannon is on the National Security Council using a giant key and visor as props, and deployed a super soaker filled with soapy water to harass journalists when they asked annoying questions.

Oh and that Muslim travel ban of Trump's? "The travel ban is not a ban, which makes it not a ban."

Honestly, if McCarthy took over an actual White House press briefing no one would notice.