A Drone Was Caught Flying Over the Falcons’ Practice, Because of Course it Was
A Drone Was Caught Flying Over the Falcons’ Practice, Because of Course it Was
Every football fan knows the Patriots ’ reputation: they win the AFC East every year, Tom Brady is an inevitable MVP candidate, they always keep things boring in the press, Bill Belichick wears a hoodie, and the team tends to find itself in situations that seem...advantageous. Think of Spygate or Deflategate as the two most public examples—among many other, less publicized “coincidences.” Whether the nickname has any grounding or not, people call them the “Cheatriots," which is what makes this story funny. Of course, with the big game tonight in Houston, it wouldn’t be a New England Super Bowl without some controversy. At long last, we have some juicy material amid the otherwise-boring lead-up to the Super Bowl: a drone was caught flying over the Falcons’ practice Thursday at Rice University. You know what drones can do. They can capture video. Video of that particular practice is no doubt sensitive material. “Security officers grounded a drone that was sent airborne by one of the residents in the neighborhood on Thursday,” reported ’s Peter King. A nearby citizen was identified as the offender. The Houston resident doesn’t have any affiliation with the Patriots organization, right? Right?! We’d like to say “give them the benefit of the doubt,” but come on, it’s the Patriots—there’s no way anyone is giving them the benefit of the doubt. And if Atlanta loses, you’d better believe some fans will point to the drone.

Every football fan knows the Patriots’ reputation: they win the AFC East every year, Tom Brady is an inevitable MVP candidate, they always keep things boring in the press, Bill Belichick wears a hoodie, and the team tends to find itself in situations that seem...advantageous. Think of Spygate or Deflategate as the two most public examples—among many other, less publicized “coincidences.”

Whether the nickname has any grounding or not, people do call them the “Cheatriots," which is what makes this story funny.

Of course, with the big game tonight in Houston, it wouldn’t be a New England Super Bowl without some controversy. At long last, we have some juicy material amid the otherwise-boring lead-up to the Super Bowl: a drone was caught flying over the Falcons’ practice Thursday at Rice University.

You know what drones can do. They can capture video. Video of that particular practice is no doubt sensitive material.

“Security officers grounded a drone that was sent airborne by one of the residents in the neighborhood on Thursday,” reported Sports Illustrated’s Peter King.

A nearby citizen was identified as the offender. The Houston resident probably doesn’t have any affiliation with the Patriots organization, right? Right?!

We’d like to say “give them the benefit of the doubt,” but come on, it’s the Patriots—there’s no way anyone is giving them the benefit of the doubt. And if Atlanta loses, you’d better believe some fans will point to the drone.