Donald Trump Talks Vladimir Putin, Voter Fraud Claims, and More With Bill O’ Reilly
Donald Trump Talks Vladimir Putin, Voter Fraud Claims, and More With Bill O’ Reilly
President Donald Trump sat down with Fox News’ Bill O’ Reilly for a taped interview that aired during the Super Bowl LI pre-game show. O’Reilly claimed this was “the most important interview of my life.” It’s become a tradition to conduct presidential interviews before the big game, and O’ Reilly used the opportunity to address plenty of hot topics directly such as Trump’s relationship with Russian president Vladimir Putin , controlling the cartels in Mexico and paying for the border wall, and more. Trump also shared his thoughts on California wanting to become a “sanctuary state” for refugees and immigrants. “I think it’s ridiculous," Trump said. I’m very much opposed to sanctuary cities. If we have to, we’ll defund. It’s a weapon. I don’t want to defund anybody. If they’re going to have sanctuary cities we’ll have to do that." During his campaign and part of presidency, Trump has been outspoken about voter fraud in the election. O’Reilly pressed him that about his claims that don’t have actual facts or evidence (like when he says three million illegal aliens voted), and Trump replied, “Many people have come out and said I’m right." “And it doesn’t have to do with the vote, although that’s the end result, it has to do with the registration," he continued. "And when you look at the registration, and you see dead people that have voted. And you see people that have been registered in two states that voted in two states, when you see other things…it’s a really bad situation.” Finally, Trump gives a prediction on the outcome of tonight’s game, saying he’s rooting for his friends—Robert Kraft, Bill Belichick, and Tom Brady—and believes they’ll beat the Falcons by eight points. Check the first part above, and check back next week for more clips of their interview. Enjoy Bill's Super Bowl interview with President Trump? The rest of their conversation will air tomorrow and Tuesday on The Factor.

President Donald Trump sat down with Fox News’ Bill O’ Reilly for a taped interview that aired during the Super Bowl LI pre-game show.

O’Reilly claimed this was “the most important interview of my life.” It’s become a tradition to conduct presidential interviews before the big game, and O’ Reilly used the opportunity to address plenty of hot topics directly such as Trump’s relationship with Russian president Vladimir Putin, controlling the cartels in Mexico and paying for the border wall, and more.

Trump also shared his thoughts on California wanting to become a “sanctuary state” for refugees and immigrants. “I think it’s ridiculous," Trump said. I’m very much opposed to sanctuary cities. If we have to, we’ll defund. It’s a weapon. I don’t want to defund anybody. If they’re going to have sanctuary cities we’ll have to do that."

During his campaign and part of presidency, Trump has been outspoken about voter fraud in the election. O’Reilly pressed him that about his claims that don’t have actual facts or evidence (like when he says three million illegal aliens voted), and Trump replied, “Many people have come out and said I’m right."

“And it doesn’t have to do with the vote, although that’s the end result, it has to do with the registration," he continued. "And when you look at the registration, and you see dead people that have voted. And you see people that have been registered in two states that voted in two states, when you see other things…it’s a really bad situation.”

Finally, Trump gives a prediction on the outcome of tonight’s game, saying he’s rooting for his friends—Robert Kraft, Bill Belichick, and Tom Brady—and believes they’ll beat the Falcons by eight points.

Check the first part above, and check back next week for more clips of their interview.