Trump: 'If something happens blame' the judge
Trump: 'If something happens blame' the judge
Trump: 'If something happens blame' the judge Updated 0140 GMT (0940 HKT) February 6, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (15 Videos) Story highlights Trump continued his attacks on a judge Sunday on Twitter "Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril," Trump said President Donald Trump spent the weekend at his Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida, disconnected from White House staff and once again tweeting attacks on a federal judge . Just cannot  believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad! The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned! What is our country coming to when a judge can halt a Homeland Security travel ban and anyone, even with bad intentions, can come into U.S.? JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH I have instructed Homeland Security to check people coming into our country VERY CAREFULLY. The courts are making the job very difficult!

Story highlights Trump continued his attacks on a judge Sunday on Twitter

"Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril," Trump said

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump spent the weekend at his Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida, disconnected from White House staff and once again tweeting attacks on a federal judge.

His ire was aimed at US District Judge James Robart, who last week put a nationwide hold on Trump's executive order barring citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the US for 90 days, all refugees for 120 days and indefinitely halts refugees from Syria.

"Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!" the President wrote, not just attacking the decision but going after the judge who may yet make more decisions on the matter.

Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2017

This came after a Saturday tweetstorm where Trump called Robart a "so-called judge."

The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017

What is our country coming to when a judge can halt a Homeland Security travel ban and anyone, even with bad intentions, can come into U.S.? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017

Read More