Wiz Khalifa Surprises at Juicy J and Belly Concert in Los Angeles
Wiz Khalifa Surprises at Juicy J and Belly Concert in Los Angeles
Wiz Khalifa Surprises at Juicy J and Belly Concert in Los Angeles  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The weekends are set aside for the turn up, and Juicy J 's Rubba Band Business: The Tour stop in Los Angeles fell right in line Saturday night (Feb. 4). The Memphis rapper got the Hollywood Palladium hype up as he ran through old and new hits as well as bringing Belly along for the ride to warm the crowd up -- and even a surprise guest. Here's what you missed. The budding XO rapper from Toronto emerged on stage in his signature cornrows and a sparkly blue jacket much to the excitement of the crowd. "I'm an official resident of L.A. now. This is the first time I get to perform a full set here" the rapper proclaimed right after opening to "Actin Different" and the Weeknd-assisted "Might Not." The MC's stage presence was infectious as he went into the crowd, jumped up and down, and equally performed at both ends. For a new artist, the rapper carries a performance well and is definitely on the radar to continue to rise in popularity. Gone are the days of oversized white tees and baggy jeans as fashion becomes more prominent in hip-hop. Project Pat opened the show in a fur vest, jeans, and designer tennis shoes. Belly kept it going with a sparkling blue jacket. Juicy J's style choices took it further with a bright silver glittered jacket and long red durag drapped over his head before changing into a Versace robe. The fashion choices in the show provided a great aesthetic to an otherwise stripped down stage design. Since the passing of Prop 64 in November (and the election of a new president) legalizing recreational marijuana, every artist visiting L.A. has been enjoying the "roots" of its labor, shouting out their love of weed in shows. "I love smoking weed, how about you?" Juicy rhetorically asked the crowd, whose individual tastes for the herb creates a cloud in the air of the Palladium. Juicy even lights up during the show and ask for attendees to take a "smoke break" before moving on to the rest of his set. "I got a new album coming out called . I want to play a new song. Y'all cool with that shit?" Juicy asked attendees before launching into a new cut off his new upcoming project featuring lyrics like "roll a couple blunts..check on a couple tracks." Juicy also premiered another song produced by Metroboomin, bringing back out longtime collaborator and tour opener, Project Pat for a verse on the song. "Can we take it back to the '90s just for a little second." After running through some of his recent hits, Juicy took fans back to the Three 6 Mafia days with cuts like "Sippin On Some Syrup," "Poppin My Collar," "Tear the Club Up," and "Who Run It." The mostly young crowd was lost on a lot of the regional songs from the group, but got hype to more mainstream joints like "Stay Fly" and the infamous "Slob on My Knob." A young group of patrons even broke out into a mosh pit with Juicy saying, "We got to put this on World Star." Juicy surprised attendees with an appearance of Wiz Khalifa , who stepped on stage in a white fur and rocked out to songs "Medication" and "All Night." The rapper lit up a blunt with Juicy and casually walked to each side of the stage before disappearing backstage. Surprisingly the Pittsburgh MC hadn't emerged for the song, "For Everybody" performed earlier in the night, but his appearance provided a great addition to the vibe of the show.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The weekends are set aside for the turn up, and Juicy J's Rubba Band Business: The Tour stop in Los Angeles fell right in line Saturday night (Feb. 4). The Memphis rapper got the Hollywood Palladium hype up as he ran through old and new hits as well as bringing Belly along for the ride to warm the crowd up -- and even a surprise guest. Here's what you missed.

The incredible stage presence of Belly

The budding XO rapper from Toronto emerged on stage in his signature cornrows and a sparkly blue jacket much to the excitement of the crowd. "I'm an official resident of L.A. now. This is the first time I get to perform a full set here" the rapper proclaimed right after opening to "Actin Different" and the Weeknd-assisted "Might Not." The MC's stage presence was infectious as he went into the crowd, jumped up and down, and equally performed at both ends. For a new artist, the rapper carries a performance well and is definitely on the radar to continue to rise in popularity.

Hip-hop fashion

Gone are the days of oversized white tees and baggy jeans as fashion becomes more prominent in hip-hop. Project Pat opened the show in a fur vest, jeans, and designer tennis shoes. Belly kept it going with a sparkling blue jacket. Juicy J's style choices took it further with a bright silver glittered jacket and long red durag drapped over his head before changing into a Versace robe. The fashion choices in the show provided a great aesthetic to an otherwise stripped down stage design.

Weed and more weed

Since the passing of Prop 64 in November (and the election of a new president) legalizing recreational marijuana, every artist visiting L.A. has been enjoying the "roots" of its labor, shouting out their love of weed in shows. "I love smoking weed, how about you?" Juicy rhetorically asked the crowd, whose individual tastes for the herb creates a cloud in the air of the Palladium. Juicy even lights up during the show and ask for attendees to take a "smoke break" before moving on to the rest of his set.

New music

"I got a new album coming out called Rubba Band Business. I want to play a new song. Y'all cool with that shit?" Juicy asked attendees before launching into a new cut off his new upcoming project featuring lyrics like "roll a couple blunts..check on a couple tracks." Juicy also premiered another song produced by Metroboomin, bringing back out longtime collaborator and tour opener, Project Pat for a verse on the song.

Memphis nostalgia

"Can we take it back to the '90s just for a little second." After running through some of his recent hits, Juicy took fans back to the Three 6 Mafia days with cuts like "Sippin On Some Syrup," "Poppin My Collar," "Tear the Club Up," and "Who Run It." The mostly young crowd was lost on a lot of the regional songs from the group, but got hype to more mainstream joints like "Stay Fly" and the infamous "Slob on My Knob." A young group of patrons even broke out into a mosh pit with Juicy saying, "We got to put this on World Star."

Surprise guest: Wiz Khalifa

Juicy surprised attendees with an appearance of Wiz Khalifa, who stepped on stage in a white fur and rocked out to songs "Medication" and "All Night." The rapper lit up a blunt with Juicy and casually walked to each side of the stage before disappearing backstage. Surprisingly the Pittsburgh MC hadn't emerged for the song, "For Everybody" performed earlier in the night, but his appearance provided a great addition to the vibe of the show.