PM 'unlikely to change terms' of parliament vote on final Brexit deal

Political editor    Theresa May is unlikely to concede to any demand to change the terms of parliament’s vote on the final Brexit deal despite facing a possible Conservative revolt over the issue. A government source told the Guardian that calls for British MPs to be given a vote on the deal before it goes to the European parliament, and to be handed a say if no agreement is hammered out , were not practical. The prime minister was keen to accommodate Tory demands but suggested that this move would “hamstring” the government in negotiations with the EU27, the source said. They also argued it could plunge the government into “perpetual Brexit purgatory” if deals were repeatedly rejected. The comments came in response to the suggestion that up to a dozen Conservative MPs are considering lining up with opposition parties, including Labour, on the issue this week. Potential Conservative rebels, including Anna Soubry, Nicky Morgan and Ken Clarke, want to avoid a “cliff edge” scenario in which the UK crashes out of the EU on to World Trade Organisation rules. They could back a frontbench Labour amendment, or one laid down by the Labour MP Chris Leslie , which insists parliamentarians should not simply get a vote on an agreed deal but on any future “relationship” with the EU. That would mean politicians would still have a say even if no agreement was reached. Leslie’s amendment also says MPs and peers should vote on the proposed terms of any deal before they are agreed with the European commission or put to MEPs in the European parliament. The Conservative MP Neil Carmichael, who wants the government to negotiate a close relationship with the EU, said: “It is very important that parliament is properly consulted in a meaningful way up to and including any deals or relationships with the European Union.” His colleague, Ben Howlett, added that MPs in all parties had expressed a range of concerns relating to the final deal. “In the unlikely circumstance there is no deal at the end of the two years once article 50 is triggered, parliament should have the final say on any ‘new relationship’ with the European Union ,” he said. Another Tory MP said the government was able to stop the rebellion by making a concession, pointing out that Conservatives did not want to vote against their party . The same position will be pushed by the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, who is also hoping to use this week to secure an agreement under which May has to provide regular reports on the negotiations. The government source stressed that May was willing to compromise and had already agreed to publish a white paper, as the rebels demanded. The Guardian understands she could also offer a concession on the issue of quarterly reporting to parliament . But the source said it was much more difficult to take action with regards to the final vote, particularly given May’s determination that politicians in Britain cannot block the Brexit process. “I struggle to see how it works in practice. What does that actually look like and what is the purpose of the vote?” they said. “What if parliament rejects the deal, what then? The chances of the leaders of the 27 member states conceding because MPs vote against is pretty slim. We would end up in a perpetual Brexit purgatory.” They argued that if the rest of the EU knew that MPs and peers were able to hamper the process it would hamstring British negotiators during the two-year period. Government whips will hold meetings in the coming days to try to persuade MPs not to vote against the government during three days of debate on the article 50 legislation, which will then pass to the House of Lords. They are determined to maintain the straightforward nature of the two-clause bill , which is narrowly focused on giving the government permission to begin the Brexit process. May’s government only produced it after being forced by the supreme court to give parliament a vote on triggering article 50 . Conservatives want to avoid a rebellion, not least because of their slim majority, but even if a dozen MPs vote against their party, the support for Brexit from some Labour politicians and the Democratic Unionist party means officials are still confident of winning a vote. Topics  EU referendum and Brexit   Theresa May   Article 50   European Union   Foreign policy     Conservatives   Europe

Theresa May is unlikely to concede to any demand to change the terms of parliament’s vote on the final Brexit deal despite facing a possible Conservative revolt over the issue.

A government source told the Guardian that calls for British MPs to be given a vote on the deal before it goes to the European parliament, and to be handed a say if no agreement is hammered out, were not practical.

The prime minister was keen to accommodate Tory demands but suggested that this move would “hamstring” the government in negotiations with the EU27, the source said.

They also argued it could plunge the government into “perpetual Brexit purgatory” if deals were repeatedly rejected.

The comments came in response to the suggestion that up to a dozen Conservative MPs are considering lining up with opposition parties, including Labour, on the issue this week.

Ken Clarke on Brexit: ‘I’ve never seen anything as mad or chaotic as this’ Read more

Potential Conservative rebels, including Anna Soubry, Nicky Morgan and Ken Clarke, want to avoid a “cliff edge” scenario in which the UK crashes out of the EU on to World Trade Organisation rules.

They could back a frontbench Labour amendment, or one laid down by the Labour MP Chris Leslie, which insists parliamentarians should not simply get a vote on an agreed deal but on any future “relationship” with the EU. That would mean politicians would still have a say even if no agreement was reached.

Leslie’s amendment also says MPs and peers should vote on the proposed terms of any deal before they are agreed with the European commission or put to MEPs in the European parliament.

The Conservative MP Neil Carmichael, who wants the government to negotiate a close relationship with the EU, said: “It is very important that parliament is properly consulted in a meaningful way up to and including any deals or relationships with the European Union.”

His colleague, Ben Howlett, added that MPs in all parties had expressed a range of concerns relating to the final deal. “In the unlikely circumstance there is no deal at the end of the two years once article 50 is triggered, parliament should have the final say on any ‘new relationship’ with the European Union,” he said.

Another Tory MP said the government was able to stop the rebellion by making a concession, pointing out that Conservatives did not want to vote against their party.

The same position will be pushed by the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, who is also hoping to use this week to secure an agreement under which May has to provide regular reports on the negotiations.

The government source stressed that May was willing to compromise and had already agreed to publish a white paper, as the rebels demanded. The Guardian understands she could also offer a concession on the issue of quarterly reporting to parliament.

But the source said it was much more difficult to take action with regards to the final vote, particularly given May’s determination that politicians in Britain cannot block the Brexit process.

“I struggle to see how it works in practice. What does that actually look like and what is the purpose of the vote?” they said.

“What if parliament rejects the deal, what then? The chances of the leaders of the 27 member states conceding because MPs vote against is pretty slim. We would end up in a perpetual Brexit purgatory.”

They argued that if the rest of the EU knew that MPs and peers were able to hamper the process it would hamstring British negotiators during the two-year period.

Government whips will hold meetings in the coming days to try to persuade MPs not to vote against the government during three days of debate on the article 50 legislation, which will then pass to the House of Lords.

They are determined to maintain the straightforward nature of the two-clause bill, which is narrowly focused on giving the government permission to begin the Brexit process. May’s government only produced it after being forced by the supreme court to give parliament a vote on triggering article 50.

Conservatives want to avoid a rebellion, not least because of their slim majority, but even if a dozen MPs vote against their party, the support for Brexit from some Labour politicians and the Democratic Unionist party means officials are still confident of winning a vote.



