Brutally honest ad for a 2002 Oldsmobile brings the internet infinite joy
Brutally honest ad for a 2002 Oldsmobile brings the internet infinite joy
You know it's a dark day in America when a used car salesman is more capable of telling the truth than the president. A Facebook ad for a 2002 Oldsmobile went viral this weekend for all the right reasons. Instead of trying to oversell what is undoubtedly a deeply terrible car, the advertiser keeps it honest with folks. This is a predictably awful, cheap car that probably won't kill you. Yet. SEE ALSO: Mother shares hilarious picture of her babysitter truly nailing it Twitter user kel121121 shared a screenshot of the ad, which has since been retweeted 72,000 times. "Don't bring your ass down here saying it looks different in pics or you didn't know it had that much rust. I'm telling you now. This bitch rusty," the ad reads. Bruh when I tell y'all I am fucking dying right now pic.twitter.com/YWTGJTETtH — Snapchat: kel12121 (@kel12121) February 3, 2017 Please don't skim. This requires a deeper zoom. "Don't bring shit back for nothing." You hear that Twitter? Maybe it's time Kellyanne Conway learned a few lessons about honesty from this random dude on Facebook. BONUS: Here's a clip of Kellyanne Conway's previous (and mercifully brief) career in stand-up comedy

You know it's a dark day in America when a used car salesman is more capable of telling the truth than the president.

A Facebook ad for a 2002 Oldsmobile went viral this weekend for all the right reasons. Instead of trying to oversell what is undoubtedly a deeply terrible car, the advertiser keeps it honest with folks. This is a predictably awful, cheap car that probably won't kill you. Yet.

SEE ALSO: Mother shares hilarious picture of her babysitter truly nailing it

Twitter user kel121121 shared a screenshot of the ad, which has since been retweeted 72,000 times.

"Don't bring your ass down here saying it looks different in pics or you didn't know it had that much rust. I'm telling you now. This bitch rusty," the ad reads.

Bruh when I tell y'all I am fucking dying right now pic.twitter.com/YWTGJTETtH — Snapchat: kel12121 (@kel12121) February 3, 2017

Please don't skim. This requires a deeper zoom.

"Don't bring shit back for nothing." You hear that Twitter?

Maybe it's time Kellyanne Conway learned a few lessons about honesty from this random dude on Facebook.