Paul Pierce Takes in Boston One More Time Before Last Game Against Celtics
Paul Pierce Takes in Boston One More Time Before Last Game Against Celtics
A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) Paul Pierce has spent the last four seasons with the Brooklyn Nets , Washington Wizards and Los Angeles Clippers . But, at heart, he'll always be a Boston Celtic . Before visiting the C's one last time with the Clippers on Sunday, The Truth went sightseeing in the town he spent 15 years in and won the 2008 NBA title. TD Garden gave the 39-year-old Pierce "chillz," according to his Instagram caption: A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) He also got some clam chowder, a Beantown specialty: A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) And what's a trip to Boston without a visit to Fenway Park? (Side note: Big-time use of the " I called game " hashtag.) A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) Pierce captioned his last picture of the night "Last stop love u Boston." A photo posted by The Truth (@ paulpierce ) Though he's seen limited action in 2016-17, here's hoping Doc Rivers lets Pierce get sufficiently embraced by Celtics fans. After all, he's already made it clear he'll retire with Boston. A photo posted by Boston Celtics (@ celtics ) A photo posted by Boston Celtics (@ celtics ) [Instagram] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Paul Pierce has spent the last four seasons with the Brooklyn Nets, Washington Wizards and Los Angeles Clippers.

But, at heart, he'll always be a Boston Celtic.

Before visiting the C's one last time with the Clippers on Sunday, The Truth went sightseeing in the town he spent 15 years in and won the 2008 NBA title.

TD Garden gave the 39-year-old Pierce "chillz," according to his Instagram caption:

He also got some clam chowder, a Beantown specialty:

And what's a trip to Boston without a visit to Fenway Park? (Side note: Big-time use of the "I called game" hashtag.)

Pierce captioned his last picture of the night "Last stop love u Boston."

Though he's seen limited action in 2016-17, here's hoping Doc Rivers lets Pierce get sufficiently embraced by Celtics fans.

After all, he's already made it clear he'll retire with Boston.

[Instagram]