Super Bowl LI predictions -- ESPN staff picks New England Patriots, Atlanta Falcons
Super Bowl LI: ESPN staff picks
Super Bowl LI: ESPN staff picks Peacemaker: How a Brady-Goodell connection lingered over the Super Bowl Sarkisian leaves Alabama to become Falcons OC Sources: LaFleur likely to be named Rams OC 9/11, NFL concussion victims allegedly scammed Shanahan takes 49ers job with Falcons' run over Texas Rangers asked to help find Brady jersey Super Bowl LI makes history in Nevada, too One night showed how close (and how far) the Cowboys are from Super Bowl Seahawks can take valuable lessons away from Super Bowl LI Plenty on to-do list for 49ers' Kyle Shanahan, John Lynch Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 Jerry Rice on Larry Fitzgerald's decision: 'I hope he's at peace with it' Cigars, selfies and kisses: Postgame with the Lombardi trophy Tom Brady is the greatest of all time. Period. 2 Related Anatomy of a miracle: How the Patriots came back from the dead Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary win Potential QB options for the Browns in 2017 Chiefs can beat Super Bowl teams -- in regular season Terrell Owens shouldn't hurt Calvin Johnson's HOF chances, but first ballot is no lock Brady's new ad with five rings was filmed in September Brady, Kobe and Tiger: Living legends Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? 2 Related 2017 NFL crystal ball: Romo to Texans, Vikings-Colts in Super Bowl LII, more Minnesota's message for Super Bowl LII: Come celebrate winter with us Worst 'bad beats' of the 2016-17 NFL season Next challenge for Matt Ryan, Falcons: Avoid Super Bowl hangover Grades, draft needs, offseason questions for every NFL team Steelers should stop giving up draft picks for other teams' cornerbacks Ranking all 51 Super Bowls: Patriots' comeback is best ever Falcons produce a choke job for the ages in Super Bowl LI Super Bowl LI coverage: Patriots complete epic comeback Scott Van Pelt predicts the Falcons will come out victorious over the Patriots, 31-24. (0:55) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment As the New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons prepare to collide in Super Bowl LI, ESPN.com's staff of writers, editors, analysts, columnists and pundits make their predictions for the big game. The tally: 72 picks for the Patriots and 28 for the Falcons. League coaches predict Super Bowl winner Ultimate Super Bowl LI betting guide | PickCenter Vegas oddsmakers, celeb picks for Super Bowl LI Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Scott Van Pelt predicts the Falcons will come out victorious over the Patriots, 31-24. (0:55)

As the New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons prepare to collide in Super Bowl LI, ESPN.com's staff of writers, editors, analysts, columnists and pundits make their predictions for the big game.

The tally: 72 picks for the Patriots and 28 for the Falcons.