AI will soon replace hundreds of thousands of public sector workers – and that's a good thing
AI will soon replace hundreds of thousands of public sector workers – and that's a good thing
he Monday commute will not feel quite so bad this morning for millions of commuters on the stricken Southern network. On Friday the Aslef rail union paved the way for the end of the strikes that have caused such misery. At the heart of the dispute has been the potential for new technology to make public services more efficient: Aslef has rightly accepted that technology allows train drivers to fill the roles that conductors used to play , for example by operating doors (as they have on the Docklands Light Railway since 1987). Not every union agrees. Mick Cash, the outspoken general secretary of the RMT, called the decision a “shocking and historical betrayal”. But the tide of history is not on Mr Cash’s side, for the issues at stake have implications far beyond the rail industry. ast month, while commuters suffered, Jeremy Hunt announced that the NHS will work with three artificial intelligence (AI) companies to deliver health advice over the telephone in London, Yorkshire and the West Midlands. AI is improving to the level that it can understand complex areas such as medical diagnosis as well as humans can. Meanwhile, HMRC has been able to reduce its administrative staff by a third over the past decade, with great savings to the taxpayer, thanks to its online self-assessment service. Crucially, this also means a better service: completing tax returns on the internet may not yet be exactly a joy, but it is still a huge advance on previous days of paper returns and letters lost in the post. My think tank, Reform, has just finished a study which suggests the wider public sector can follow suit. Automation will replace up to nine in 10 of the Whitehall’s 140,000 administrative roles in the next decade, saving £2.7 billion a year. Similar changes in the NHS could save a further £1.7 billion. When the national debt remains twice as high as its level before the financial crisis – and still rising – these efficiencies are essential. Yet the real benefit will come from a shift in the culture of the public sector away from the bureaucracy that citizens find so frustrating. or example: because of the ability to book appointments online, some GP surgeries now run on a ratio of one receptionist to five GPs (compared to the standard ratio of 1:1). This saves money, but most importantly it frees patients from the struggle to get through to a surgery on the phone at 8.30am before all the appointments are gone. In a world of price comparison and pre-booked delivery slots, why should anyone stand for that? Ministers have wisely accepted that the Brexit referendum expressed a popular backlash against a style of government that neither listens to people’s views nor delivers for them. Ben Gummer, minister for the Cabinet Office, has said that Brexit must lead directly to what he has called “government at your service”. This has to be a key objective of Theresa May’s government, and technology is one of the best tools for her to achieve it. hat has to go together with a slimming down of the management hierarchies of the public sector, which now look very out of date. Whitehall departments have up to 14 levels of employment when eight is considered the maximum for a well-functioning organisation in the private sector. It also has to mean a much more open culture. Last week Bernard Jenkin MP showed that a blame culture in the NHS prevents it from learning from its mistakes, despite their serious impact on patients. A more flexible and adaptable public service is needed. And indeed, in some hospitals the staff performance assessment is shifting away from cumbersome annual appraisals to immediate feedback given by team members online. All this may seem controversial, and any job losses must be handled sensitively. But the economy has coped very well with the shrinking of the public sector workforce so far. The rise in private sector employment since 2010 has been eight times the size of the fall in public sector jobs over the same period. Union leaders such as Mick Cash may never accept this kind of progress. Their members, however, will enjoy working in public services that are modern, smooth in operation and open to new ideas. Taxpayers will be in favour, too.

Last month, while commuters suffered, Jeremy Hunt announced that the NHS will work with three artificial intelligence (AI) companies to deliver health advice over the telephone in London, Yorkshire and the West Midlands. AI is improving to the level that it can understand complex areas such as medical diagnosis as well as humans can.

Meanwhile, HMRC has been able to reduce its administrative staff by a third over the past decade, with great savings to the taxpayer, thanks to its online self-assessment service. Crucially, this also means a better service: completing tax returns on the internet may not yet be exactly a joy, but it is still a huge advance on previous days of paper returns and letters lost in the post.

My think tank, Reform, has just finished a study which suggests the wider public sector can follow suit. Automation will replace up to nine in 10 of the Whitehall’s 140,000 administrative roles in the next decade, saving £2.7 billion a year. Similar changes in the NHS could save a further £1.7 billion. When the national debt remains twice as high as its level before the financial crisis – and still rising – these efficiencies are essential. Yet the real benefit will come from a shift in the culture of the public sector away from the bureaucracy that citizens find so frustrating.