As Indian Rat Catchers Get Jobs In Florida, This Is The Story Of South India's Last Rat Catcher
As Indian Rat Catchers Get Jobs In Florida, This Is The Story Of South India's Last Rat Catcher
As Indian Rat Catchers Get Jobs In Florida, This Is The Story Of South India's Last Rat Catcher Anybody who has ever tried to catch a rat, without new-age tools, understands the complexity of the process. Some of us had heard stories of a certain tribe in South India that not only excelled in catching rats but also feasted on them. Was this a legend or were these people still around? The idea was so intriguing that went on a hunt recently for these famous 'rat catchers'. A little bit of research prior to the 'field work' revealed that some of these people from the Irula tribe stayed in the forests near Denakani-kottai (Tamil Nadu) but could speak well in Kannada. There began our quest. Recently, two men from the same Irula tribe were flown to Florida, US, to help the American state catch the Burmese pythons, which were rapidly breeding and feeding on native species, driving them to near-extinction. When their local efforts failed to show results, the two tribesmen from Tamil Nadu were called in for the job, along with two translators. Together, they managed to capture 13 snakes in less than two weeks, according to a report in the Washington Post. So, it was this famous tribe that we had our sights on. We headed out for the reserve forests near Denakanikottai (around 80 km from Bengaluru) and met Tamil Nadu's forest staff. When we asked them about the people we were looking for, they forwarded us to a few tribals who, they said, would be able to help us get to our rat catchers. We were taken to meet two Irula tribals (who were working as support staffers). Speaking in Kannada, these men said that they were from a different 'sub-caste' and didn't know anything about rats themselves, but knew some others who did. But tracking them down might be a tough job, we were warned. As we moved ahead, the forest department staff warned us about a herd of elephant that was spotted nearby a while ago. Sure enough, we soon found fresh elephant droppings all along the road as well as a newly trampled path through the thick bamboos grooves. After travelling nearly 10 km through dense jungle, we reached a place called Tattikarai, which was up a hill and seemed untouched and pristine. A middle-aged guy on a two-wheeler said he could show us some colonies of tribals, and rest was for us to discover. As we went into this Irula colony, we found only children there. The elders had gone out into the fields for work. We asked the children if one of them could accompany us on our quest, but were readily informed that they were not free - they were left in charge of their younger siblings, who stood cutely gaping at us. We spotted a middle-aged woman in a house nearby, looking not too happy with our snooping around. She curtly informed us that people here were respectable and into farming and would never go around catching rats. According to her, we were obviously on a wild goose chase and were better off headed back home. The overcast sky threatened to send us scampering for cover, but after all this effort, the mission could not be aborted. So, we went back to a village called Kamagiri.

Anybody who has ever tried to catch a rat, without new-age tools, understands the complexity of the process. Some of us had heard stories of a certain tribe in South India that not only excelled in catching rats but also feasted on them. Was this a legend or were these people still around?

The idea was so intriguing that Mirror went on a hunt recently for these famous 'rat catchers'.

Bangaloremirror

A little bit of research prior to the 'field work' revealed that some of these people from the Irula tribe stayed in the forests near Denakani-kottai (Tamil Nadu) but could speak well in Kannada. There began our quest.

Recently, two men from the same Irula tribe were flown to Florida, US, to help the American state catch the Burmese pythons, which were rapidly breeding and feeding on native species, driving them to near-extinction. When their local efforts failed to show results, the two tribesmen from Tamil Nadu were called in for the job, along with two translators. Together, they managed to capture 13 snakes in less than two weeks, according to a report in the Washington Post.

So, it was this famous tribe that we had our sights on. We headed out for the reserve forests near Denakanikottai (around 80 km from Bengaluru) and met Tamil Nadu's forest staff. When we asked them about the people we were looking for, they forwarded us to a few tribals who, they said, would be able to help us get to our rat catchers.

We were taken to meet two Irula tribals (who were working as support staffers). Speaking in Kannada, these men said that they were from a different 'sub-caste' and didn't know anything about rats themselves, but knew some others who did. But tracking them down might be a tough job, we were warned.

As we moved ahead, the forest department staff warned us about a herd of elephant that was spotted nearby a while ago. Sure enough, we soon found fresh elephant droppings all along the road as well as a newly trampled path through the thick bamboos grooves.

After travelling nearly 10 km through dense jungle, we reached a place called Tattikarai, which was up a hill and seemed untouched and pristine.

A middle-aged guy on a two-wheeler said he could show us some colonies of tribals, and rest was for us to discover. As we went into this Irula colony, we found only children there. The elders had gone out into the fields for work. We asked the children if one of them could accompany us on our quest, but were readily informed that they were not free - they were left in charge of their younger siblings, who stood cutely gaping at us.

We spotted a middle-aged woman in a house nearby, looking not too happy with our snooping around. She curtly informed us that people here were respectable and into farming and would never go around catching rats. According to her, we were obviously on a wild goose chase and were better off headed back home.

The overcast sky threatened to send us scampering for cover, but after all this effort, the mission could not be aborted. So, we went back to a village called Kamagiri.

In Kamagiri

As we approached Kamagere village, we could see around a hundred people assembled at a spot. Curious about it, we approached them, cameras out, but were quickly told to put our shutters away - this was a sacred village meet and clicking photos would cause offence. Apparently, two village groups had clashed and they had called a meeting to resolve the issue. The elders were obviously held in high regard and their word was the final on any major issue.

Bangaloremirror

While still enquiring, an elderly man seemed sympathetic towards our mission. He told us that there were many rat catchers, years ago, but most of these people had now migrated to big cities like Bengaluru in search of jobs. Before we had time to be disheartened, he told us there was still a lone man left (he is not an Irula). Of course, he lived on top of a hill... deep inside the forests... inaccessible by vehicles. This was turning out to be quite the adventure from a thriller novel.

We asked this kindly old man if he could accompany us to our "last-surviving" rat catcher. "I'm too frail to walk so much," he informed us. No amount of coaxing would change his mind. Moved by our determination, he eventually found a youngster who agreed to be our guide.

The young man introduced himself as Shiva Kumar, who works as a driver in Bengaluru. And so, we set out on our final trek to the mountain top to meet our elusive rat catcher. As we walked through the thickets, for long, we couldn't find a single house. After several arduous climbs and scenic meadows, we spotted a house made of tiles and mud. An old lady sat cleaning ragi — our rat catcher's wife. The husband was not at home. He had gone to the nearby town for some personal work.

It occurred to us then that perhaps catching a rat would have been easier than finding the catcher himself. While we mulled turning back empty-handed, the woman threw us a carrot: we could try our luck at the only bus-stop nearby. Her husband might be back in the next ride. Shiva Kumar, our trusted guide, knew the way to the stop.

It was 1.50 pm and a cool breeze had dropped the temperature at his hill-top to a pleasant 24 degrees. We stood waiting at the stop while locals were curious to know why we had come all this way.

About an hour later, some exclaimed that they could hear a bus coming. Thankfully, the Tamil Nadu state government bus was bang on time (3 pm). Around 10 passengers got down, the last one was Eranna - the man of the hour.

From The Man Himself

Finally, after the introductions and some coaxing, he started talking to us about the 'lost art'. He said: "I learnt to catch rats from my father and grandfather who would take me hunting. As soon as I see a burrow, I know what kind of rat it is. If there are white rats, I would take a few well-built men along with me and close all the burrows except for one. Then, we would bring a pot with tiny holes made at the bottom. We would bring coconut shells and manure and try to burn it and keep it on one of the burrows and close it. We know just when to start digging. About 10-15 rats would have died in there. I take these rats back home and give them to my wife who makes the best delicacies out of them."

Bangaloremirror

He talked about rat meat with so much enthusiasm that we remembered the episode with the former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a big advocate of rat meat. So much so that he wanted restaurants in his state to have it on the menu.

But Eranna, aged about 60, had a word of caution. "Not all rats are good to eat. There are a few large ones that are so poisonous that they can kill. But, there are a few rats which are found in the fields. I get a lot of calls from farmers to save the harvest. So I head there to catch these rats. It not only makes the farmer happy, but even me, because these are very tasty," he says.

Eranna, who never went to school, says he has caught thousands of rats in his lifetime and is the only one left in hundreds of villages nearby. But while he knows that with him, the unique skill will be gone too, he does not feel the need to teach the younger generation. He wants them to work well. All his five children work in Bengaluru.

SB Sidde Gowda, a man who once lived in a village nearby, said the rat catchers used to come to the villages soon after the harvest. They never caught any rats inside the village but only in the paddy and ragi fields.

Their reward was not only the rats caught, but also the grains stolen and stored underground by the rodents. No one objected to this.

The catchers were called "toda idiyoru" (toda catchers). Toda was a type of rat. The other common kind of rat was the "moog ili" (literally means 'nose rat', because of its longer nose). It was the 'toda' that stored grains underground. These rodents were found in groups of 20-30 and it was quite a sport to watch these skilled men at work. It wasn't uncommon for the village children to catch the 'holamalada ili' (field rat, literally) and eat it while out shepherding. No one ate the village rat, though.

Considering how skilled the job is, we asked Eranna if he would make a living out of it in the city, given an opportunity. But Eranna clarified that he doesn't work for money, even though he knows very well that his skills would be of great use in pest control.

He understands that a unique skill will be gone when he is. It's the problem with the current generation, he says, philosophically. There is little space or need for techniques of the past.

Originally published in Bangalore Mirror