Super Bowl LI Highlights and Analysis
Super Bowl LI Highlights and Analysis
Andrew Das Editor  Welcome to our coverage of the Super Bowl. Times reporters and experts will offer live analysis. Some of us will offer jokes. You are free to ignore the latter but may find value in the former.   Andrew Das Editor  President Trump, in a pregame interview, predicted an 8-point Patriots victory. So in our polarized times, figure that will have millions of people making completely reasoned decisions about whom to support.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Polling those gathered here: Do you watch the Super Bowl ads ahead of time, or do you prefer to see them live? I prefer to be surprised.   Andrew Das Editor  I prefer to use commercial breaks as they were intended: to grab food or a fresh drink.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I would also prefer not to have seen the Ghost Spuds McKenzie ad already. He’s now in my nightmares.     Andrew Das Editor  Are any Super Bowl ads even a surprise by the time they run anymore?   Andrew Das Editor  I didn’t even know Spuds had died. #RIP   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  We are 30 minutes to game time and I am already over montages.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Food check: Andy, what’s your current menu? I’m looking at a giant bowl of Rotel and Velveeta.   Andrew Das Editor  Naila: we’re going traditional here: sliders, chips, pulled pork and some crazy thing my paleo-believing (unnamed) relative has made. Oh, and the greatest homemade coffee cake ever – oddly, a Martha Stewart (pre-Snoop) recipe.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  File this under things I did not expect to see on the Town and Country Instagram feed:  Are you ready for some football?  @SnoopDogg and @MarthaStewart are. #Regram #SuperBowl A photo posted by townandcountrymag     Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I would be fine if all the ads were Snoop Dogg and Martha Stewart.   Andrew Das Editor  I would support an all-Martha/Snoop channel.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Ving Rhames is doing the Patriots introduction on the pregame show. Do kids today know Ving Rhames?   Andrew Das Editor  If they were flipping channels earlier and saw “Pulp Fiction,” as I did this afternoon, they’d know Rhames.   Andrew Das Editor  Saw a great stat today, Naila: 11 of the past 12 Super Bowl champions wore white in the game. Can’t verify, but good news for the Patriots.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Here in Houston, I’m trying to figure out why Tom Brady got to run out onto the field pregame without his helmet. His teammates all wore their helmets but Brady has someone hand it to him when he gets the sideline. Is that part of an endorsement contract?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Well, Andy, I am wearing a purple Minnesota Vikings T-shirt. What is the record for teams in the Super Bowl while I am wearing a purple shirt?   Andrew Das Editor  Let me get research on that.   Andrew Das Editor  Another powerful stat that I can confirm: Super Bowl teams that score more points than their opponent are a perfect 50-0. But hard to bet that one early.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Fox just promoted the national anthem, but what about the Schuyler sisters doing “America the Beautiful”?  Twitter is freaking out that we missed them.   Andrew Das Editor  I predict Twitter will freak out about a lot of things in the next four hours. Just a hunch.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Phew. We didn’t miss the Schuyler sisters. They are sadly not here to sing about Houston being the greatest city in the world. Sorry, Houston.   Bill Pennington Reporter  My unofficial observation walking the Houston streets this week: More Pats fans are in town. That was just confirmed when each team ran onto the field. Louder ovation for Patriots.   Andrew Das Editor  Bill: there was some chatter earlier today about maybe opening the roof? It’s closed, right?   Victor Mather Reporter  The over/under on tonight’s National Anthem is 2:09 and supposedly the under has been taking a lot of action. We’ll have a clock on it.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  The word “sisterhood” gets dropped into America the Beautiful and Dan Quinn approves.   Game Update  Here’s the National Anthem   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Oh, boy, Luke Bryan is starting awfully slow, Victor.   Andrew Das Editor  Judging by the first few bars, I’d bet the over.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Surprisingly small American flag.   Andrew Das Editor  Luke Bryan looks like he’s a Tebow cousin.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Roof closed, which is making the flyover a sound effect only   Victor Mather Reporter  I got that at 2:04. Under bettors cash in!   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  John Branch wrote the definitive story on giant American flags: American Flags as Big as Fields A small industry has formed to supply the flags, usually at a cost of a few thousand dollars an appearance. Some colleges and bowl games, tired of renting them frequently, have bought their own field-sized flags. “People are getting more on the bandwagon,” said Doug Green, who has long rented giant flags to teams and leagues, and recently supplied one for the Indianapolis 500. The New York Times    Andrew Das Editor  Wait: a flyover over a roofed stadium? Why not just light money on fire in the parking lot?   Victor Mather Reporter  Guys, the Patriots as the away team and will have the right to call the coin toss. And the Patriots ALWAYS call heads.   Victor Mather Reporter  Patriots Love ‘Heads’ in Coin Toss; Super Bowl Bettors Bank On It Quirky bets are part of the big game, but what happens when everyone but the oddsmaker has factored in that the team calling the toss usually picks “heads”? The New York Times   Andrew Das Editor  That was my favorite pre-Super Bowl story, Victor.   Andrew Das Editor  Wow. The Bushes are there. And looking remarkably healthy after their recent trips to the hospital.   Andrew Das Editor  Cheers for a politician in 2017. Something to tell your kids about.   Andrew Das Editor  The Falcons won the toss, by the way. They chose to defer.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I have, unfortunately, been in many of the situations featured in that Ford ad.   Andrew Das Editor  The one thing that unites most Super Bowl ads is turning to someone next to you halfway through and saying, ‘What’s this an ad for again?’   Game Update  The Falcons Kick Off to Start the Game   Andrew Das Editor  Super Bowl Commercials: What People Are Talking About With the average cost for a 30-second ad climbing to $5 million, viewers will be pitched everything from cars to candy bars to cleaning products, but political statements are out. The New York Times   Victor Mather Reporter  Falcons kick off!!!   Andrew Das Editor  Touchback on the opening kickoff. Shall we have a long, involved discussion on what that portends?   Bill Pennington Reporter  Falcons defensive line winning the battle at the line of scrimmage so far. Made Brady scramble on 2nd down, stretched out 3rd down run.   Victor Mather Reporter  A confidence boost for the less heralded Falcons defense. The Patriots go three and out.   Victor Mather Reporter  The Falcons begin from their 8  … and Devonta Freeman busts one! He takes it all the way to the 45.   Bill Pennington Reporter  I take it back about the crowd. There are more Falcons fans in the building. Just kidding, but they’re holding sway in this building now.   Andrew Das Editor  That Freeman run is the kind of play that probably worries the Patriots, who have been a bend-but-don’t break unit in the past. That leaned uncomfortably toward the latter.   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan back to pass on 3rd and 4 and he’s hit and sacked. A promising start fizzles out.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Coverage sack but Patriots needed something good to happen   Andrew Das Editor  Keep an eye on Falcons center Alex Mack, who is playing with a fracture in his leg. It was termed a ‘pain management’ issue rather than a structural one. I think I speak for all of us when I say we would have lasted about 10 seconds.   Bill Pennington Reporter  On the field during break in game, they introduced the newest Pro Football Hall of Fame class. When Jerry Jones was introduced, the Houston crowd booed lustily. Jones winked and waved   Andrew Das Editor  Gotta say: the Avocados from Mexico Super Bowl ad is some serious presidential trolling.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Nice to see Jon Lovitz get work, though.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Patriots equipment guys – remember them? – are going to have aid Tom Brady in another way at halftime. He’s going to need ice for his arm. He’s on a pace to throw 60 passes.   Andrew Das Editor  Well, I’ve heard he throws a lighter ball than other QBs. (Too soon?)   Bill Pennington Reporter  He threw 50 passes in his last Super Bowl appearance.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pats have to start at the 10.  Brady hits Amendola to get them to the 25. Hits Hogan to get to the 40.  Mitchell to the 50. White to the Falcons’ 40. Ruthless.   Bill Pennington Reporter  You don’t have to be clairvoyant to see that Patriots early plan is to pass and attack Atlanta DBs. But Brady has been sacked and knocked down twice on this drive.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Some of the people at the Super Bowl gathering I am at are actively rooting against both teams, which is going to be hard to keep up for the next three hours or so.   Victor Mather Reporter  Patriots drive stalls after a sack and a long incomplete. On third and 19, Brady is sacked again! New England will punt.   Game Update  Time for Some More Commericals   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Anybody surprised that defenses have early control here or are offensive jitters to be expected?   Andrew Das Editor  Doesn’t it feel like it’s always easier to fire up a defense? Danger in that, though, without discipline.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Most Super Bowls in modern era (not held at MetLife Stadium) begin slowly. The Patriots have never scored a first quarter point in the Belichick-Brady era.   Victor Mather Reporter  The over/under on the game was 58 ½., the highest ever. Over bettors aren’t too happy early.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  More important, how do we feel about “Romance the Rainbow” as a Skittles slogan?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Andrew Das Editor  The NYT’s Sam Borden wrote a great piece earlier this season about how the Falcons’ line is leading a trend toward smaller linemen. The Falcons did this on purpose, since their scheme is about getting to the edge of the field.   Andrew Das Editor  N.F.L. Offenses Are Changing, So Some Offensive Linemen Are Shrinking Undersize linemen, akin to baby grand pianos, appear to be a growing demographic thanks in part to changing styles that require quicker players. The New York Times   Andrew Das Editor  It’s shown up on a couple of these running plays, as they look nimble as they stretch out the Patriots’ defense.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Members of the Patriots offensive line are lined up tighter than piano keys on the sideline bench as a coach “explains” how they’re doing. No one looks happy.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Nobody wrote any deep profiles of the punters, did they?   Victor Mather Reporter  Once again poor field position for the offense, as Atlanta starts from the 12. Once again they are forced to punt. And New England gets it inside the 20.  This is starting to look like a rugby match.   Bill Pennington Reporter  An astute fan during our Super Bowl chat Friday afternoon asked Ben Shpigel and I if the punters might be a key? Someone was thinking ahead.   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  Average starting field position for the Pats this season was their own 30; for the Falcons, it was their 27.   Victor Mather Reporter  Brady revs it up again. Edelman to the 30. Blount to the 40.  Who had 0-0 in their box pool? The first quarter is over.  These were the two most high-powered offenses in the league this year, remember.   Game Update  End of First Quarter     Andrew Das Editor  If you haven’t noticed our wonderful photo firehouse over there on the left (or the top if you’re on a phone), feel free to lose yourself in it during the break.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Patriots haven’t been held scoreless in their last 32 quarters   Andrew Das Editor  New guessing game at my Super Bowl party: ‘what’s this a commerical for?’   Andrew Das Editor  Super Bowl Commercials: What People Are Talking About With the average cost for a 30-second ad climbing to $5 million, viewers will be pitched everything from cars to candy bars to cleaning products, but political statements are out. The New York Times   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I have a lot of questions about the Intel ad with Tom Brady. Does he usually wake up alone? Does he make his own pancakes?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Andrew Das Editor  Having a hard time imagining Tom Brady making a sandwich himself, Naila, let alone pancakes.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Have the Falcons noticed that Brady likes to throw to Edelman?   Game Update  Falcons Recover Patriots’ Fumble   Victor Mather Reporter  Brady gets lots of time and hits Edelman at the Atlanta 30. And then Blount fumbles! Atlanta recovers.   Andrew Das Editor  Is Youth Football Cam Newton an elite quarterback?   Andrew Das Editor  Or would people still find fault with him there?   Andrew Das Editor    Bill Pennington Reporter  Pats had just 11 turnovers in regular season. Falcons wisely come out throwing deep after the fumble, defenses always seem a little rattled after turnovers.   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan hits Julio Jones and the Falcons are at midfield. That’s his first catch. And there’s his second! The falcons are at the Patriots’ 30. Freeman rumbles to the 15. Looking good to break the 0-0 tie here.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Falcons no-huddle has Patriots backpedaling.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Hence, the New England timeout   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Gronk and Beiber in the same commercial is trolling me.   Andrew Das Editor  Bieber and Gronk in the same ad? This may bring down the Internet.   Andrew Das Editor    Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 7, Patriots 0   Victor Mather Reporter  Freeman takes it to the 5.  And then scores the touchdown on the end around. Falcons lead, 6-0.   Victor Mather Reporter  Extra point is good. 7-0   Bill Pennington Reporter  Falcons brought nine men inside the tackles to block on that play. it looked like a formation from 1974. But easy touchdown.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break:  Celebrity yearbook ad was great. I have no idea what it has to do with Hondas. More Jimmy Kimmel with a clarinet, please.   Andrew Das Editor  Thinking of you Mike Daniel. You never got famous enough after high school to get our yearbook page in a Super Bowl commercial.   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  The Falcons scored a TD on a third of their drives this season, the most in the league.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Matt Ryan doesn’t look very nervous for a guy with a losing postseason record. Meanwhile, Patriots pushed pass early (sacks) then went to run in last series (fumble). What to try next?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: “Bye, Bye, Bye” by NSYNC is one of the great pop songs of the last 20 years.  In 1999, we couldn’t have fathomed it would be used in an ad for antioxidant infusion drinks from Bai. Because in 1999, we didn’t know what antioxidant infusion drinks were.   Victor Mather Reporter  Incomplete pass. Run for basically nothing.  Little pass that won’t get a first.  Not a good response from the Pats.   Victor Mather Reporter  And the Falcons will get the ball at the 37.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Long way to go here in Houston but on the body language front, Falcons are running off the field and the Patriots are walking off.   Victor Mather Reporter  How many commercials is Gronk going to be in?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Well, Victor, he’s not busy.   Andrew Das Editor  Does this look like a fun Super Bowl party to you? Not sure I’d want to sit at a table in a tie for hours. The first couple and @Reince’s family at the Trump International Golf Club Super Bowl party — Jennifer Epstein on Twitter ( jeneps )   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  Another three-and-out for the Pats.  Surprisingly, nearly a quarter of their possessions this season ended that way. 6th worst in the NFL.   Bill Pennington Reporter  The turf here looks very quick, something Falcons are probably more used to than the Patriots, whose home field is grass. Falcons back in no huddle. Smart, Pats defense must be tired.   Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 14, Patriots 0   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  That was an exquisite drive by the Falcons.   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan to Gabriel across midfield. Julio Jones does a balancing act on the sidelines for another catch.  Falcons at the 20.  Then Patrick Chung breaks up a potential touchdown to Hooper.  But it doesn’t matter because Hooper catches one in the end zone on the next play and the Falcons  are up two touchdowns!   Andrew Das Editor  The Patriots really need some time with the ball now. Even if they don’t score. But the Falcons smell blood in the water, so best not to give them another chance too quick.   Bill Pennington Reporter  I agree, Andy. The Pats coaching staff must be doing some soul-searching about what to do offensively but I doubt they will panic.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Fox says this is the largest deficit for a Belichick-Brady team in the Super Bowl.   Andrew Das Editor  Belichick is probably more focused on getting his defense sorted at the moment.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Hey, Brady is allowed to throw to someone other than Edelman or Amendola   Andrew Das Editor  Big first down there, Bill.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Falcons are outgaining the Patriots by 133-12 in the second quarter.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Penalty bails out Pats but Brady is getting pounded after throws.   Andrew Das Editor  A couple of bad throws by Brady there, but a completion and a holding penalty extend the drive. That’s helpful if you’re New England right now.   Victor Mather Reporter  Bennett gets a first down for the Pats. Then a couple of penalties against Atlanta earn firsts. It’s a drive of sorts, if an uninspiring one.   Andrew Das Editor  Bill, is it a surprise the Falcons are able to get at and pressure Brady so easily with a four-man rush?   Andrew Das Editor  In the Pocket: How Tom Brady and Matt Ryan Pass Under Pressure Matt Ryan and Tom Brady are the prototypical pocket passers. But Brady was better protected this season and Ryan was a little better under pressure. The New York Times   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Patriots are getting a lot of help from Atlanta penalties on this drive. Whatever works.   Victor Mather Reporter  Hmmm. Thoughts on these calls Bill?   Bill Pennington Reporter  Good calls. Poor technique by inexperienced defenders   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  Brady is getting knocked around. His completion pct. when he was not pressured this season was 74%.  It dropped to 51% when he was pressured.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Is anybody else’s first-down line on TV looking more green than yellow?   Andrew Das Editor  It does seem oddly faint, Naila.   Bill Pennington Reporter  This drive is not only resuscitating the Patriots, it’s taking forever and keeping Ryan (7-for-8 passing) off the field.   Andrew Das Editor  Just what the Patriots needed.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  It’s not like the Patriots needed a first-down line until this drive.   Game Update  Falcons Return Interception for a Touchdown: Falcons 21, Patriots 0   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Oops. Jinxed the Pats.   Andrew Das Editor  Ruh roh.   Victor Mather Reporter  Another third down, but this time the refs don’t save the Patriots. Brady completes a pass to Robert Alford, who plays for the Falcons. He’s untouched all the way to the end zone. 21-0!   Bill Pennington Reporter  After futile tackle attempt, Brady all alone on his knees in Falcons territory watching pick-six going the other way and a 20-0 lead. Will that be the enduring image of this game?   Bill Pennington Reporter  21-0 after extra point   Andrew Das Editor  Bill, another bad throw? Or just a great defensive play?   Bill Pennington Reporter  Bad decision to throw by Brady. But he’s been getting knocked around and was pressured again. His timing was off all drive – the penalties just covered it up.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: when was the last time Alfa Romeo advertised at the Super Bowl? Maybe Sapna knows: Super Bowl Commercials: Airbnb and Coke Run Pointed Ads Coca-Cola, Airbnb and Budweiser were seen as making political statements on Sunday with ads that touched on immigration and diversity. The New York Times   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  The Pats and the Falcons each had the fewest giveaways this season: 11   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  The most Patriots thing would be for them to score right before halftime.   Bill Pennington Reporter  It’s been said for years – Brady might be the best QB ever but if a QB is human he doesn’t like to get hit on just about every pass. Brady is human.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: I might be traumatized by the Humpty Dumpty Turbo Tax ad.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Bill Pennington Reporter  Wow. Brady seems to get his rhythm then makes another terrible, airmailed throw.   Andrew Das Editor  Brady’s not Brady right now. It’s like watching Federer spray forehands wide.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Hey, Federer’s forehands were just fine against Nadal one week ago, Andy.   Victor Mather Reporter  Bennett’s having a good game. He grabs another catch of a ball that flew almost at random after Brady was hit. White grabs a catch and races to the 30. Patriots really need to score here. Hogan takes it to the 20.  On third and 2, White gets the first down and the Pats are to the 15. Timeout.   Andrew Das Editor  Right Naila. Which is why Patriots fans shouldn’t panic. Brady’s done this before. And only his team has one of the best coaches in history coming up with the adjustments.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  With seven seconds left, that’s the play you’ve got, Pats?   Victor Mather Reporter  A little screen to White gets the Patriots inside the 5. But a holding call pulls it back to the 20. 12 seconds to go. A mysterious screen call gets nothing. 3 seconds to go.   Game Update  Field Goal: Falcons 21, Patriots 3     Andrew Das Editor  ‘Yeah, I don’t know about that call,’ says Fox’s Aikman (and everyone on earth).   Bill Pennington Reporter  That  play call was ridiculous. Atlanta’s defense is so quick and you throw a screen to a 270-pound TE?   Victor Mather Reporter  Pats will kick the 41-yard field goal. Successfully.  It’s 21-3.   Game Update  Halftime: Falcons 21, Patriots 3   Andrew Das Editor  And the halftime pregame show ends.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Let me get this straight: parts of the Super Bowl broadcast have been sponsored by Busch beer and Alfa Romeo. Talk about divided America.   Bill Pennington Reporter  The Patriots have made more mistakes in this half than they normally would in 8 games. Does Belichick have a halftime adjustment that can make the veteran Super Bowl team play like its been here before?   Victor Mather Reporter  Halftime numbers. Brady has 179 yards passing, but a very costly pick-6 interception. Ryan has only 115, but the Falcons have 86 yards on the ground to the Patriots’ 26, on fewer rushes.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Hello, football fans! Joe Coscarelli here, the NYT’s pop music reporter, parachuting in for the non-sports portion of the evening. Lady Gaga is up next and there are a few open questions about what’s to come in her halftime performance: Will there be a surprise guest (or two)? Will she get political? Can she win over the crowd at NRG Stadium in Houston? Let’s find out together.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  The 84 Lumber ad that just ran was initially censored: Challenge for Super Bowl Commercials: Not Taking Sides, Politically The company 84 Lumber was told to change an ad showing a wall at the U.S.-Mexico border, highlighting the difficulty of ensuring a bipartisan broadcast. The New York Times    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Who had Gaga opening with “God Bless America”?   Andrew Das Editor  Why’d they bring a stage out if she wasn’t going to use it?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  It’s a long show, Andy.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Lady Gaga begins the show atop the stadium roof, singing a “God Bless America” and “This Land Is Your Land” mash-up, followed by the Pledge of Allegiance, in a sparkly get-up from. The red, white and blue drone art behind her was a nice touch.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Lady Gaga has sung, what, six songs already? It’s been five minutes.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  The greatest-hits medley takes a little break with “Born This Way,” maybe her signature song.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  She let that one breathe.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I have questions about the “telephone” Gaga was using for “Telephone.”   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Here comes the keytar for “Just Dance,” her first big hit. She’s shining so far, isn’t she?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Gaga’s gold spiked jacket would probably be considered a weapon.   Andrew Das Editor  Gaga’s covered more ground than the Patriots’ offense so far.   Andrew Das Editor  There’s no denying one thing: Lady Gaga is an incredible performer, and a seriously talented musician. (And not just because she can play piano on one knee.)   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Shouting out mom and dad during the ballad (“Million Reasons”) was a nice humanizing touch. More sincere than that Tiffany commercial.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Of course, Gaga has changed into football pads for the occasion.   Andrew Das Editor  More than one person is singing along at my Super Bowl party. Betting it’s the same where you are.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  You are correct, Andy.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I am the one singing along.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Lady Gaga is leaning hard on her earlier hits, neglecting “Joanne,” her most recent album, which has underperformed a bit since its release in October. Smart choice, I think.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Lady Gaga dropped a  mic and caught football.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Touchdown?   Andrew Das Editor  You bet.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: Einstein is a Gaga fan.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Talk about the space-time continuum.   Andrew Das Editor  It almost makes you think someone … planned that.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Andy, we’ve got some time to kill. As a New Englander, what were your rankings? Brady vs. Dunkin’: Rank the New England Institutions The Patriots have ascended to bona fide New England institution. But have they surpassed the Red Sox? Or Dunkin’ Donuts? Certainly not Paul Revere, right? Rank your favorites here. The New York Times    Andrew Das Editor  I picked Dunkin’ 1-4. So my results were atypical.   Andrew Das Editor  Oh man, Naila: people can grumble about the NFL all they want, but the Super Bowl Baby ad ……   Andrew Das Editor    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I am not sure about the math on those “Super Bowl babies.”   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  How are we calculating Super Bowl Baby 50?   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  All told, Lady Gaga was sharp and on-brand but played it pretty safe: all big hits (with the exception of the “Joanna” ballad “Million Reasons”), no risky cameos and only a slight nod to politics in a totally unobjectionable way. She may not have united the country, but she gave a valiant effort. Thanks for having me, team. Enjoy the rest of the game!   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Question: Will Lady Gaga be playing receiver for the Pats in the second half? She showed good hands.   Game Update  Third Quarter Begins   Bill Pennington Reporter  As we get ready to re-start here, I still get over the image of Brady on his knees watching Alford run away with the first postseason pick-6 of Brady’s career. He was alone with an expression that said: That can’t be happening.   Andrew Das Editor  Great point to remember as the teams return to the field: Matt Ryan hasn’t thrown a ball in over an hour. It’s now been 65 minutes since Matt Ryan threw a pass. https://t.co/RD4ubGRx3Z — Football Perspective on Twitter ( fbgchase )   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  According to Fox, the Falcons haven’t had the ball in 1 hour 8 minutes.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Here’s a first half stat of consequence: Falcons RBs averaged 9.6 yards per carry and Pats RBs average 2.5 yards   Victor Mather Reporter  Falcons receive the second-half kickoff. Freeman loses yardage. Catches a pass but doesn’t get the first. Then a pass to Gabriel is broken up. A perfect start  to the half for the Patriots defense.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Bosher out-kicked his coverage, not something a punter can dial back but he might have aimed more for the sideline   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: I did not need Mr. Clean to be turned into a sex symbol.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Andrew Das Editor  I mean, Mr. Clean did everything but drop salt off his elbow there.   Victor Mather Reporter  Julian Edelman with a 26-yard punt return and the Pats are in strong position to start a drive for a change, their own 47.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Gutsy challenge by Quinn. If he loses a timeout over 7 yards and they needed it later, he’d be ripped   Bill Pennington Reporter  What did Giselle say after last Super Bowl loss? My husband cannot throw the ball and catch it too?   Bill Pennington Reporter  Well, that was a good start to the second half for Pats, then two dropped passes and a penalty   Victor Mather Reporter  Incomplete. Completion for a loss. Incomplete. Bad start to the half for the Pats.   Andrew Das Editor  In the receiver’s defense, the air since the halftime show looks like a fog has rolled in.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: Here is the Budweiser ad that tells the immigrant story of its namesake.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Andrew Das Editor  Funny part is that it’s not true. Busch came from a respected German family. Arrived in St. Louis with a ticket and money. Not like he swam the Atlantic.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Snoop! Martha!!!   Andrew Das Editor  Fun fact: Busch was the 21st of 22 children. No wonder he left for America. Probably couldn’t get a seat at the dinner table.   Andrew Das Editor  The Bud ad’s implied pro-immigration message has sparked a Twitter boycott campaign though, a sign of our testy political times. But it had to have been in the works for months, long before the current debate roiling America.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Andy, Busch historian.   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  The Falcons led the league this season in plays of 10 or more yards (15.5/game). they have 9 so far tonight.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  You just get all that Anheuser-Busch history from drinking the beer, right, Andy?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Malcolm Butler falling down on coverage says it all for the Patriots right now.   Bill Pennington Reporter  That big pass happened because Julio Jones was lined up way wide and safety and corner went with him. Left the middle of the field open.   Andrew Das Editor  Ha. Not really. But even better is Budweiser is produced by a Belgian-Brazilian colossus, AB InBev. And good luck reaching into a cooler anywhere in the world without pulling out one of their beers.   Joe Ward Graphics Editor  Make that 10 plays of 10 or more yards.   Bill Pennington Reporter  I know they’re the Patriots, four Super Bowl wins and all that, but if they fall behind by 25?   Victor Mather Reporter  Taylor Gabriel across the middle past the 30. Gabriel again, wide open to the Pats’ 30. (That’s the longest pass play of the night, assuming you don’t count the big pick 6.) Another catch and another first down at the 15 by Sanu.  Freeman runs it to the 5.  Falcons offense looks extraordinary.   Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 28, Patriots 3   Victor Mather Reporter  First and goal. And Ryan finds Coleman. What a drive. The Falcons have one hand on the Vince Lombardi Trophy.   Bill Pennington Reporter  That might have been a sketchy pass interference call on Butler but Atlanta was going to score anyway.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Is it too soon to post this? In Defense of the Blowout Actually, you don’t want the Super Bowl to be close. The New York Times    Andrew Das Editor  It is not, Naila.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commerical break: Melissa McCarthy stole the thunder of her own Super Bowl ad with her performance of Sean Spicer on SNL last night.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  ‘S.N.L.’ Goes After Trump Again, With Melissa McCarthy as Sean Spicer Alec Baldwin returned for another outing as President Trump, but Ms. McCarthy stole the show with her impersonation of the White House press secretary. The New York Times     Bill Pennington Reporter  You have to recognize that Falcons are also out-coaching Patriots. On that last TD, Atlanta formation made it plain that Coleman was going to draw coverage from slow-footed LB Rob Ninkovich, who had no help. With the football on left hash, that’s a mistake – too easy for Ryan to flare it out to Coleman who had more than half the field to out-run Ninkovich to the end zone.   Victor Mather Reporter  A pass to White gets New England a first down. They’re going to have to be virtually mistake free to come back here. Third and short. Brady laterals  to Edelman and he passes! Lewis gets a hand on it, but can’t pull it in. Pats go for it on 4th and 3 … and they make it! Amendola with the catch. They’re still alive.   Andrew Das Editor  Even with a former college quarterback (Edelman) to throw it, that trick play had the whiff of panic. As if nothing else is working, so what the heck? Like so many passes by New England, though, the throw was not nearly good enough.   Victor Mather Reporter  A pass gains nothing, then a bad incompletion.  Brady runs on 3rd-and-8 and gets the first down. Pats are down to the 20.   Bill Pennington Reporter  If Brady is the team’s most effective running back – any team – you’ve got problems   Andrew Das Editor  Still, the Patriots seem to be snacking on yards. At 28-3, they need some much bigger bites.   Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 28, Patriots 9   Andrew Das Editor  Oh boy.   Victor Mather Reporter  Blount runs it to the 15. Pats in dire need of their first touchdown. Blount to the 6. Blount to the 5. And there’s the touchdown pass to White.  New England is facing long odds still, but they are fighting back. Gostkowski hits the upright, so it’s 28-9.   Bill Pennington Reporter  This is the first time tonight I’ve seen Brady run off the field. New life? As for missed extra point, but does that matter? Is there a difference between 18 points down and 19 points down?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: the “A Cure for Wellness” ads are doing a good job of giving me nightmares.   Bill Pennington Reporter  I guess with a 19-point deficit, two touchdowns and two 2-point conversions plus a field goal only gets you a tie. Are we getting ahead of ourselves?   Victor Mather Reporter  Extra point would have cut it to 18. Two-point conversion would have made it 17. Maybe they should have tried for 2?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Maybe they should have tried for 8. Or 15 while they’re at it.   Andrew Das Editor  If you chase points too early, you always seem to regret it late.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pats try an onside kick with 2 minutes left in the third. Falcons get it.   Andrew Das Editor  Big moment there. Ball hit Gostkowski after 9 yards. So Falcons get it anyway, and breathe a sigh of relief.   Victor Mather Reporter  Even if the Pats had landed it, Gostkowski, who’s had a tough five minutes, was whistled for touching the ball too soon.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Great onside kick technique, really poor chasing after it technique.   Andrew Das Editor  Matt Ryan’s not setting any records (12-14, 193 yards). But he’s hardly put a foot wrong, either.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Players and coaches on the New England sideline look understandably tense, exasperated. Unfamiliar territory: In the six previous Patriots’ Super Bowls, win or lose, the final margin on the scoreboard was never more than 4 points.   Victor Mather Reporter  Falcons start at the New England 41. But a penalty, an  incomplete and a sack stymie them. A rare fizzle for Atlanta. The punt will take us to the end of the third quarter.   Game Update  Third Quarter Ends   Andrew Das Editor  President Trump has apparently seen enough. Pool: Trump is done watching the game — Zeke Miller on Twitter ( zekejmiller )   Bill Pennington Reporter  Why are the Patriots in a huddle at all?   Bill Pennington Reporter  Now the Patriots are in the no huddle, kind of surprised the Pats coaching box is reading this chat.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  We are more interesting than this game, Bill.   Andrew Das Editor  Bill, in your story on the Patriots’ receivers this morning, they all mentioned what an exacting taskmaster he can be. Patriots’ Julian Edelman and Danny Amendola Are Feared, if Not Flashy What Edelman and Amendola may lack in size and speed, they make up for with dependability and consistency, traits the team covets. The New York Times   Andrew Das Editor  I was struck by this quote: “There are intricacies of each route against a certain coverage,” Amendola said. “And, I mean, it comes down to inches. It’s all mapped out. And Tom will expect you to be exactly — within inches — of where you’re supposed to be.”   Andrew Das Editor  Seems as if the receivers aren’t the issue today.   Andrew Das Editor  Or at least not all of it   Victor Mather Reporter  Brady 87 yards from the end zone. Hits Mitchell on the sidelines. Mitchell again to the 35. Mitchell into Falcons territory. White to the 30. Pats moving the ball. Bennett grabs one at the 5. This looks like Brady and the Patriots for maybe the first time all game.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Brady is obviously demanding and somewhat out of sync, and the Falcons defense is so quick and swarming.   Game Update  Field Goal: Falcons 28, Patriots 12   Victor Mather Reporter  First and goal for Brady: You’d have to bet on them to score, right? But a sack, a very short pass and another sack leaves them at  4th and goal at the 15. Thy have to settle for a field goal that cuts the Falcons’ lead to 28-12.   Andrew Das Editor  That’s three sacks – with most of a quarter to go – for Grady Jarrett, who will surely show up in Brady’s dreams later.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Onside kick again? No surprise factor.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I’m surprised that 3 is the Super Bowl record for sacks.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Commercial break: NOOOOO! Ghost Spuds McKenzie. I’ll be hiding under my bed.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor    Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  I’m going to make “the proof is in the pants” a thing.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  But I’m glad we can all agree the fedora was  a bad idea.   Andrew Das Editor  Bill made a good point earlier that bears repeating: the Patriots have been outcoached today. Hard to think of a moment when you thought, ‘O.K., they’ve got this now and can win.’   Game Update  Patriots Recover Falcons’ Fumble   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan back to pass on third down. He’s hit and fumbles and the Patriots have the ball at the Falcons’ 25! Could the comeback start here?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  A pass on third-and-1?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Thoughts?   Andrew Das Editor  Not sure Ryan ever saw him.   Bill Pennington Reporter  The seven Atlanta plays would have to exclude a turnover.   Andrew Das Editor  My thought, Naila, is the Patriots still have to turn this into something. And on cue, Brady is sacked on first down.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Dwight Freeney is about 100 in football years and just got a sack on the Pats’ offensive line.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Yeah, pass on 3rd and 1 is a bit arrogant.   Andrew Das Editor  Freeney is so old that Syracuse was good at football when he played there.   Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 28, Patriots 18   Victor Mather Reporter  After a sack and a short pass, Malcolm Mitchell continues his big game with a catch at the 10.  And Amendola catches the touchdown! 28-18 pending the conversion!   Andrew Das Editor  Now comes your two-point conversion chance.   Game Update  Two-Point Conversion: Falcons 28, Patriots 20   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  That was a must-convert for the Pats and they did.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pats go for 2 … White runs it in and they have cut it to 8. This is a football game again. Six minutes to play.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Belichick did have a last trick up his sleeve. Direct snap to White fools Atlanta defensive line.   Victor Mather Reporter  Bookmakers who take live bets have the Patriots at 6-1 right now.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Gostkowski missed PAT might matter after all.   Andrew Das Editor  Too bad they burned their onside kick early.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Matt Ryan wants to be the man. He’s got to get at least a field goal then.   Andrew Das Editor  A couple first downs and some kneeldowns would work, too.   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan takes over at the 10.  Nobody’s on Freeman – nobody! – and he catches a pass and rambles to the 50.   Andrew Das Editor  The middle linebacker fell down there, leaving Freeman open. But he looked lost ever before he went down.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Are you kidding me, Julio Jones?   Andrew Das Editor  That’s a TREMENDOUS catch by Julio Jones.   Victor Mather Reporter  Ryan up and passing again and Julio Jones does his Julio Jones thing! A great sideline catch and the Falcons are down to the 20.   Victor Mather Reporter  Julio Jones, Star Falcons Receiver, Shakes Off Cornerbacks and Celebrity While Steelers receiver Antonio Brown has become famous off the field, Jones seems to have little use for notice beyond football. The New York Times   Andrew Das Editor  Watching it again and again, Ryan’s throw was as good as the catch.   Bill Pennington Reporter  In the off-season, Ryan’s primary goal was to improve his throwing on the run.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Throwing when you’re already in field goal range was reckless.   Andrew Das Editor  Well, that’s definitely a hold.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  The Falcons were safely  in field goal range, but apparently didn’t like it there.   Victor Mather Reporter  A sack and a holding penalty eat up a ton of the yardage Atlanta had acquired. They will have to punt.   Bill Pennington Reporter  If the Falcons don’t throw on second down, they don’t have to throw on third down and they aren’t punting on fourth down.   Andrew Das Editor  That’s a really poor job by the Falcons there. They were in field-goal range and walked themselves back 20 yards.   Victor Mather Reporter  Tom Brady will have to go 92 yards in a bit over three minutes. Here we go.   Andrew Das Editor  Raise your hand if you’ve seen Brady do exactly what he needs to do here.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  We’ve seen him fail too as well. Because he has been here so many times.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Nobody open on either of those Pats passes     Victor Mather Reporter  Let’s take it play by play here. Brady is rushed and throws an incompletion from the end zone. Bomb to Hogan is incomplete. Third down.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pass complete to Hogan for the first down. Pats to the 25. 2:50 left.   Bill Pennington Reporter  A screen/wheel right might be the right call right here.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pass knocked down. Completion to Mitchell for the first at the 35. 2:28 left.   Andrew Das Editor  The Falcons suddenly can’t get anywhere close to Brady.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Hints of David Tyree in the Edelman catch.   Victor Mather Reporter  Pass across the middle  … did Edelman catch it? It was close! They’re saying it’s complete but there will be a challenge.   Andrew Das Editor  Incredible play. How does that not hit the ground?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  There is A LOT of time left.   Andrew Das Editor  Allen actually saved it somehow by reaching for the ball. He kept it in the air for Edelman to grab it.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Patriots have all the momentum. Not a good pass at all but a huge completion.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Took too long to show a Tyree replay, Fox.   Victor Mather Reporter  The ruling is upheld. The Pats are down to the 40.   Victor Mather Reporter  Completion to Amendola. They are down to the 20 with two minutes left!   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Remember when Julio Jones had the greatest catch in this Super Bowl?   Victor Mather Reporter  Those bookmakers who had the Pats at 6-1? They’ve got them  at 3-1 now.   Andrew Das Editor  Getting ahead a little: Remember that even if the Patriots score, they need to get the two-point conversion. And Ryan will get the ball back needing only to get in field-goal range. As Naila said, LOTS of time left.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Just thinking ahead: Most teams only really practice two, maybe three, 2-point conversion plays in a given week of preparation. They have others but not ones that have been recently rehearsed. Patriots already ran one of those plays tonight.   Victor Mather Reporter  First and 10 from the 21. Little dump to White. First and goal at the 8.   Victor Mather Reporter  White again down to the 1 yard line.   Game Update  Touchdown: Falcons 28, Patriots 26   Victor Mather Reporter  A minute to play. Handoff to White. Touchdown for the Patriots!   Victor Mather Reporter  I would describe this as an important 2-point conversion.   Game Update  Two-Point Conversion: Patriots 28, Falcons 28   Victor Mather Reporter  Amendola catches the ball. Did he cross the line? It was close! And there was a flag!   Victor Mather Reporter  It’s good! We’re tied! 57 seconds to play.   Andrew Das Editor  ‘Hey Atlanta: do you like apples?’   Victor Mather Reporter  416 yards for Brady. Only a Super Bowl record.   Victor Mather Reporter  Also that 58 ½ over/under will be going over.   Bill Pennington Reporter  No. 1 offense in league has the football.   Victor Mather Reporter  Falcons at the 10. Completion to Sanu at the 20. Pass to Hooper for a few yards. 18 seconds.   Victor Mather Reporter  Long pass incomplete.  11 seconds and the Falcons will punt.   Bill Pennington Reporter  There’s never been an overtime game in the Super Bowl. If we go to overtime, the team that has the first possession after a coin flip, can win the game with a touchdown. If they kick a field goal instead, then the other team also gets a possession. If that team ties it, then the next score wins the game. If they score a touchdown, they win the game.   Victor Mather Reporter  Here’s the punt. It’s away. The Pats will have 3 seconds if they want to try a Hail Mary.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Patriots could choose to take a free kick from that spot.   Andrew Das Editor  They’ll change the name to Hail Brady if it works.   Victor Mather Reporter  They line up to kneel down but fake it. However Lewis’s run does not go too far and we’re going to overtime.   Andrew Das Editor  Lewis looks hurt. Now hobbles to his feet.   Andrew Das Editor  Have to wonder which grainy black-and-white film from the ‘50s Belichick saw that play on.   Game Update  Fourth Quarter Ends, Game Goes to Overtime   Victor Mather Reporter  New England calls heads. They always call heads. This time they win it.   Bill Pennington Reporter  What kind of odds would you have gotten on Pats in the live betting parlor when it was 28-3?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  For the record, Andy, it was, in fact, too soon to post that blowout article.   Andrew Das Editor  Could’ve been worse. Could’ve been me that (potentially) jinxed Atlanta’s first Super Bowl title.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  That city championships graphic that showed Boston with 36 and Atlanta with 1 seems needlessly cruel now.   Victor Mather Reporter  The Pats will start from their 25.   Victor Mather Reporter  As far as I can tell Bill, the odds reached about 30-1.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Atlanta defense has lost its swagger from earlier. They’re backing up a lot pre-snap.   Andrew Das Editor  No pressure for a while, either.   Andrew Das Editor  Brady’s just standing up picking them apart now.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Remember that Falcons’ 3rd-and-1 pass decision in 4th quarter.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  What Bill said.   Victor Mather Reporter  Completion to Amendola at the 45. Completion to Hogan at the Atlanta 37!   Victor Mather Reporter  Edelman to the 25!   Victor Mather Reporter  White to the 15!   Victor Mather Reporter  They try a pass but it’s knocked down. Second down.   Bill Pennington Reporter  What? Why? That could have been intercepted.   Andrew Das Editor  That’s a terribly risky call there.   Game Update  Touchdown: Patriots Beat the Falcons, 34-28   Victor Mather Reporter  Pitchout to White. He’s in the end zone.   Andrew Das Editor  Brady not celebrating. He looks like he just got his tax forms.   Bill Pennington Reporter  People will not only remember that the Patriots won five Super Bowls at the start of this century, they will absolutely remember how they won the fifth.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Could a Patriots season dominated by Deflategate really end any other way?   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  There were just a handful of plays that swung the whole thing. The 3rd-and-1 pass that led to a fumble. That sack and holding penalty when the Falcons were in field-goal range. The Edelman catch.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  First Super Bowl overtime wasn’t terribly satisfying.   Andrew Das Editor  ‘We just made a few more plays than them,’ Brady says in the greatest understatement of the day.   Bill Pennington Reporter  Naila, I bet in the six New England states they thought the O.T. was riveting.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  My thought is, it’s the Super Bowl. Play a full 15-minute overtime.   Victor Mather Reporter  Wow, if there was any doubt that Atlanta’s fans are the most cursed, that should end it.   Andrew Das Editor  Or don’t throw on third-and-1 when you’re in position for the sealing field goal ….   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  The Falcons created a whole manual of things you shouldn’t do when you are in position for a sealing field goal.   Andrew Das Editor  Excruciating trophy presentation coming up. Goodell. Kraft. Brady, who’ll surely be the MVP.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Awkward Handoff of Lombardi Trophy Has Roots in Renegade Raiders If the Patriots win the Super Bowl, all eyes will be on Robert K. Kraft and Roger Goodell. In 1981, tensions were equally high between Al Davis and Pete Rozelle. The New York Times   Andrew Das Editor  ‘Hi. Uh, nice to see you.’   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Some are calling this the best Super Bowl ever. Agree?   Victor Mather Reporter  The Patriots Are Going to Win the Super Bowl, Aren’t They? Record, point differential, passer rating, computer rankings … all signs point to the Patriots. The New York Times   Victor Mather Reporter  From early November.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  Roger Goodell is getting viciously booed during the trophy presentation.   Naila-Jean Meyers Editor  So loudly that I can’t really understand what he’s saying.   Andrew Das Editor  Kraft is looking into Goodell’s eyes as he speaks, but takes the trophy without a word and immediately turns away from the commissioner.   Andrew Das Editor  Ice cold.   Andrew Das Editor  Kraft makes a not-so-subtle reference to Deflategate without mentioning the word. Then references his comments after last win about how it was the sweetest Super Bowl win. Says that’s no longer true: ‘This is unequivocably the sweetest.’   Andrew Das Editor  Goodell’s probably in his car, driving away, already.   Andrew Das Editor  That’s five Super Bowl titles for the Patriots, for Brady, for Belichick. That’s a record for a quarterback, and sweet revenge for the Patriots, who will now get the Lombardi Trophy from their nemesis, Roger Goodell.   Andrew Das Editor  For now, here’s our wrap-up. Thanks for reading along.   Andrew Das Editor  Patriots and Tom Brady Win 5th Super Bowl in Thriller Over Falcons Tom Brady became the first quarterback to win five titles when the Patriots completed one of the greatest comebacks in Super Bowl history. The New York Times  Advertisement

Hello, football fans! Joe Coscarelli here, the NYT’s pop music reporter, parachuting in for the non-sports portion of the evening.

Lady Gaga is up next and there are a few open questions about what’s to come in her halftime performance: Will there be a surprise guest (or two)? Will she get political? Can she win over the crowd at NRG Stadium in Houston? Let’s find out together.