Authorities: Florida Girl, 5, Killed in Accidental Shooting
Authorities: Florida Girl, 5, Killed in Accidental Shooting
Shares                A 5-year-old girl was fatally shot and her 4-year-old neighbor wounded in an accidental shooting in north Florida by the girl's brother, authorities said Sunday. The children were alone in a Jacksonville apartment when the shooting occurred Saturday, Jacksonville Sheriff's Office Chief Chris Butler said. Butler said the girl's 8-year-old brother fired a single shot from a gun, fatally wounding his younger sister and wounding the 4-year-old boy with a non-life-threatening injury. Emergency personnel tried to save the girl but were unsuccessful. "We believe, in the absence of any other information being developed, that unfortunately this is a tragic, unfortunate accidental shooting," Butler told The Florida Times-Union ( http://bit.ly/2kC9l3y ). He added that the mother of the girl had left to go to a store at the time. Police said 34-year-old Maurice Antonio Mobley, the mother's boyfriend, was arrested after he turned himself in and charged with possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. Sheriff's office spokesman Officer Christian Hancock said in a news release that police believe Mobley brought the gun into the house. It wasn't immediately known if Mobley had an attorney. Butler said a therapist was called to help the boy who fired the shot. A sheriff's statement added that the Florida Department of Children and Families and the state attorney's office were also being consulted. ——— This story has been corrected to show authorities now say the 4-year-old boy wounded in the accidental shooting was the girl's neighbor, not her brother as they had informed earlier. ——— Information from: The (Jacksonville) Florida Times-Union, http://www.jacksonville.com  Shares                  Authorities: Florida Girl, 5, Killed in Accidental Shooting   Tom Brady on Missing Super Bowl Jersey: If It Shows Up on eBay 'Let Me Know'   Patriots Fans Take to Streets of Boston to Celebrate Victory   Politicians, Celebs React to Patriots' Historic Super Bowl Win   Where the Legal Showdown Over Trump's Travel Ban Stands   Apple, Google, Uber Join Fight Against Trump Travel Ban   2 States Say Allowing Travel Ban Would 'Unleash Chaos Again'   Trump Threatens Defunding Sanctuary States as 'Weapon'   Israeli Leader Presses UK to Impose New Sanctions on Iran   Pence: Education Pick DeVos Will Be Confirmed With His Vote   Trump's Supreme Court Pick Adheres Closely to Constitution   Merkel to Seek Common Ground With Trump 'Wherever Possible'   Los Angeles Marchers Protest Trump Orders on Oil Pipelines   Despite White House Warning, Israel Pushes Settlement Bill   The Best of Super Bowl LI Commercials   Inside the Red Cross Ball With President Trump and the First Lady   College Responds to Trump's Order With Refugee Scholarship   'Logan,' 'Stranger Things' and 'Guardians' Trailers Drop During Super Bowl

A 5-year-old girl was fatally shot and her 4-year-old neighbor wounded in an accidental shooting in north Florida by the girl's brother, authorities said Sunday.

The children were alone in a Jacksonville apartment when the shooting occurred Saturday, Jacksonville Sheriff's Office Chief Chris Butler said.

Butler said the girl's 8-year-old brother fired a single shot from a gun, fatally wounding his younger sister and wounding the 4-year-old boy with a non-life-threatening injury. Emergency personnel tried to save the girl but were unsuccessful.

"We believe, in the absence of any other information being developed, that unfortunately this is a tragic, unfortunate accidental shooting," Butler told The Florida Times-Union ( http://bit.ly/2kC9l3y ). He added that the mother of the girl had left to go to a store at the time.

Police said 34-year-old Maurice Antonio Mobley, the mother's boyfriend, was arrested after he turned himself in and charged with possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.

Sheriff's office spokesman Officer Christian Hancock said in a news release that police believe Mobley brought the gun into the house.

It wasn't immediately known if Mobley had an attorney.

Butler said a therapist was called to help the boy who fired the shot. A sheriff's statement added that the Florida Department of Children and Families and the state attorney's office were also being consulted.

———

This story has been corrected to show authorities now say the 4-year-old boy wounded in the accidental shooting was the girl's neighbor, not her brother as they had informed earlier.

———

Information from: The (Jacksonville) Florida Times-Union, http://www.jacksonville.com