People Are Joking That The Patriots Will Win Super Bowl Despite Scoring Less
People Are Joking That The Patriots Will Win Super Bowl Despite Scoring Less
At halftime of Super Bowl LI , the Atlanta Falcons were already blowing past the New England Patriots. The Falcons had a 21-3 lead, an unexpected start against the favored Patriots. Tom Brady got sacked multiple times and threw an interception that led to a Falcons player running the ball for a touchdown on the play. This pick-six was the first against Brady during his long career in the postseason. Things were not looking good. But as it became a running joke going into the Super Bowl that the Patriots were President Donald Trump’s team ― given the president’s friendship with the Patriot’s owner, coach and Brady as well as Trump’s prediction the Patriots would win ― people on Twitter quickly began making Electoral College jokes. Of course, despite losing the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes, Trump won the electoral votes to end up with the American presidency.  Here’s the former senior advisor to President Barack Obama ... The most fitting end for this game will be if the Falcons score more points, but the Patriots still get the Lombardi Trophy  This came briefly after Brady’s sack ... But the Patriots are ahead in the electoral college. #SuperBowl  By halftime, it was already becoming a cliché joke. and the electoral college jokes began pouring down like a mighty rain  But election jokes were happening before the game even started. The Falcons may score more points, but Tom Brady's appeal to working class whites could give the Pats an Electoral College edge.  Everyone seems to have this question. What if the Falcons score more points but the Patriots win the Electoral College?  Given election night, the Patriots really might win this thing, huh? #SuperBowl prediction: Atlanta Falcons will score more points but New England Patriots will rig the game and win the Electoral College  Why isn’t Fox showing the score tally that actually matters? What is the electoral college score though?  It’s not that they “could” win, but that they inevitably will. Patriots could still win this via the electoral college.  Before Lady Gaga even took the halftime show stage, the joke was dead. Get this. What if Hahaha Lol What if the Patriots Win The electoral college!!!!!!!!!!(rT this ALSO ON HUFFPOST Super Bowl National Anthems Through The Years       Share this slide:       MORE:

At halftime of Super Bowl LI, the Atlanta Falcons were already blowing past the New England Patriots. The Falcons had a 21-3 lead, an unexpected start against the favored Patriots.

Tom Brady got sacked multiple times and threw an interception that led to a Falcons player running the ball for a touchdown on the play. This pick-six was the first against Brady during his long career in the postseason. Things were not looking good.

But as it became a running joke going into the Super Bowl that the Patriots were President Donald Trump’s team ― given the president’s friendship with the Patriot’s owner, coach and Brady, as well as Trump’s prediction the Patriots would win ― people on Twitter quickly began making Electoral College jokes.

Of course, despite losing the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes, Trump won the electoral votes to end up with the American presidency.

Here’s the former senior advisor to President Barack Obama ...

The most fitting end for this game will be if the Falcons score more points, but the Patriots still get the Lombardi Trophy — Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) February 6, 2017

This came briefly after Brady’s sack ...

But the Patriots are ahead in the electoral college. #SuperBowl — Karen Tumulty (@ktumulty) February 6, 2017

By halftime, it was already becoming a cliché joke.

and the electoral college jokes began pouring down like a mighty rain — Matt Pearce (@mattdpearce) February 6, 2017

But election jokes were happening before the game even started.

The Falcons may score more points, but Tom Brady's appeal to working class whites could give the Pats an Electoral College edge. — Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) February 5, 2017

Everyone seems to have this question.

What if the Falcons score more points but the Patriots win the Electoral College? — Steven Hyden (@Steven_Hyden) February 5, 2017

Given election night, the Patriots really might win this thing, huh?

#SuperBowl prediction: Atlanta Falcons will score more points but New England Patriots will rig the game and win the Electoral College — elan gale (@theyearofelan) February 5, 2017

Why isn’t Fox showing the score tally that actually matters?

What is the electoral college score though? — Michael Silver (@MikeSilver) February 6, 2017

It’s not that they “could” win, but that they inevitably will.

Patriots could still win this via the electoral college. — Mat Johnson (@mat_johnson) February 6, 2017

Before Lady Gaga even took the halftime show stage, the joke was dead.