George H.W. Bush and wife Barbara take part in Super Bowl coin toss - a week after being released from hospital
George H.W. Bush and wife Barbara take part in Super Bowl coin toss - a week after being released from hospital 
eorge H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, took part in the pregame coin toss at the Super Bowl on Sunday night, less than a week after the former president was released from hospital . The former first couple got a huge ovation, including applause from coaches and players from both teams, when they came onto the field slowly with Barbara in a golf cart and the 92-year-old former president being pushed in a wheelchair next to her. The Bushes often attend games of the Houston Texans, the host stadium for its second Super Bowl . Mr Bush hinted at his appearance earlier this week when he tweeted a picture of a spinning coin, along with the message: "Getting fired up for Sunday and Super Bowl." Getting fired up for Sunday and #SuperBowl . pic.twitter.com/zlXmsZJrTM he nation's 41st president was released last Monday from Houston Methodist Hospital, where he received treatment for pneumonia for more than two weeks. Mr Bush's appearance was hailed on social media, where it was also noted that Vice President Mike Pence, who was at the game, was met with boos when he appeared on the big screen . "Former President George Bush flips the coin and crowd loves it. But when VP Mike Pence was shown on big screen, resounding boos," Juliet Macur, New York Times reporter, said. Great to see Pres. @GeorgeHWBush & Mrs. Bush on the field for the #SB51 coin toss. They are good people & incredible public servants. Best coin toss ever! Made my day.... @GeorgeHWBush and Barbara Bush plse RT pic.twitter.com/79dKQ6eaTn r Bush was experiencing breathing difficulties when he was admitted on January 14. During his treatment, which included a stay in intensive care, doctors inserted a breathing tube and connected him to a ventilator. He was joined at the hospital by his 91-year-old wife, Barbara, who spent five days there for treatment of bronchitis until her release a week ago. The couple's 72-year marriage is the longest of any presidential couple in US history and the former first lady was with her husband during much of his stay, including when she was hospitalised for her own treatment. They were "essentially therapy for each other," Dr. Clint Doerr, one of the physicians treating Mr Bush, said last week. ush, who served as president from 1989 to 1993, has a form of Parkinson's disease and uses a motorized scooter or a wheelchair for mobility. Despite his loss of mobility, Mr Bush celebrated his 90th birthday by making a tandem parachute jump in Kennebunkport, Maine. Last summer, Mr Bush led a group of 40 wounded warriors on a fishing trip at the helm of his speedboat, three days after his 92nd birthday celebration.

George H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, took part in the pregame coin toss at the Super Bowl on Sunday night, less than a week after the former president was released from hospital.

The former first couple got a huge ovation, including applause from coaches and players from both teams, when they came onto the field slowly with Barbara in a golf cart and the 92-year-old former president being pushed in a wheelchair next to her.

The Bushes often attend games of the Houston Texans, the host stadium for its second Super Bowl.

Mr Bush hinted at his appearance earlier this week when he tweeted a picture of a spinning coin, along with the message: "Getting fired up for Sunday and Super Bowl."