Text Your Bank: Digit Puts Clear Communication In Your Financial Life
Text Your Bank: Digit Puts Clear Communication In Your Financial Life
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Saving is a habit that is derailed easily. Even if you have a budget in place, surprise bills or tempting purchases can throw you off. The question of how to save better inspired Ethan Bloch to create Digit . His solution? An app that connects to your checking account and scoops small sums usually between $5 and $50 at a time into a dedicated account, based on what your habits show you can afford to save. The automation is an important feature, but Bloch, who has a background in product design, is most concerned with making a financial tool people want to use. “We won't necessarily set out and say, ‘Alright, what's the way to make things anti-finance?’ We actually set out and say, ‘What's the best customer experience?’” A major takeaway from Bloch’s research is that Digit users want just the most relevant information about their finances, at times of their choosing. So Bloch and his team built Digit like a messaging app. Opt in for daily updates on your account, or text to check your balance. Transfer funds out of your Digit account by just texting “withdraw.” Digit’s simple, fun communication has helped users set aside over $350 million, according to the company, and Bloch plans to keep developing new features to further integrate the service with users’ financial lives. Digit mostly helps establish rainy day funds and set aside debt payments now, but Bloch says “the big question for us is ‘What more will they trust Digit to do?’” In 2016, the team got the communication in place, and “2017 will be about shipping new core functionalities that enable Digit to do more for you and automate more of your financial life.” Get more tips and advice from experts in Forbes' Financially Fit feature. Follow me on Twitter @KATontap    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Saving is a habit that is derailed easily. Even if you have a budget in place, surprise bills or tempting purchases can throw you off. The question of how to save better inspired Ethan Bloch to create Digit. His solution? An app that connects to your checking account and scoops small sums — usually between $5 and $50 at a time — into a dedicated account, based on what your habits show you can afford to save.

The automation is an important feature, but Bloch, who has a background in product design, is most concerned with making a financial tool people want to use. “We won't necessarily set out and say, ‘Alright, what's the way to make things anti-finance?’ We actually set out and say, ‘What's the best customer experience?’”

A major takeaway from Bloch’s research is that Digit users want just the most relevant information about their finances, at times of their choosing. So Bloch and his team built Digit like a messaging app. Opt in for daily updates on your account, or text to check your balance. Transfer funds out of your Digit account by just texting “withdraw.”

The messaging also is built to offer an experience that users — 67% are millennials — will have fun with. Saving milestones are celebrated via GIFs of SNL sketches or “Puff Daddy dancing in one of his music videos making it rain cash.” You’re encouraged to label your savings goals with an emoji.

Digit’s simple, fun communication has helped users set aside over $350 million, according to the company, and Bloch plans to keep developing new features to further integrate the service with users’ financial lives. Digit mostly helps establish rainy day funds and set aside debt payments now, but Bloch says “the big question for us is ‘What more will they trust Digit to do?’” In 2016, the team got the communication in place, and “2017 will be about shipping new core functionalities that enable Digit to do more for you and automate more of your financial life.”

Get more tips and advice from experts in Forbes' Financially Fit feature.

Follow me on Twitter @KATontap