Foolproof Foundations: How To Stay On The Right Side Of The IRS
Foolproof Foundations: How To Stay On The Right Side Of The IRS
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ashlea Ebeling       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Got $500,000 or more you'd like to dedicate to charity now, before Trump's tax cuts slice the tax breaks for giving? Surprisingly, you can still set up and deduct contributions to a private family foundation in 2016 and won't have to make mandatory distributions from it until December 31, 2017. At that point you must give at least 5% of assets in grants to public charities a year. (Note that the Internal Revenue Service will likely take months to grant a tax exemption to your new foundation, but approval will be retroactive.) While donor-advised funds are a more practical way to manage smaller charitable kitties, a private foundation makes it possible to involve multiple generations in your charitable mission. And running a foundation isn't as tricky as you might fear; the sort of "self-dealing" and other violations that the Donald J. Trump Foundation has now fessed up to are easily avoided if you get professional advice--and follow it. Credit: Taylor Callery for Forbes You'll need to either hire a local lawyer and/or CPA who specializes in foundations or use a national service. One safe option is 15-year-old Foundation Source in Fairfield, Connecticut, which administers 1,300 of the nation's estimated 82,000 private foundations. It charges $6,000 for setup, including the IRS and state applications. Yearly administrative charges start at $5,000 for foundations with $500,000 or less in assets and run around $20,000 (or just 0.4% of assets) for a $5 million foundation. That fee buys the filing of your foundation's annual tax return (a 990 PF) and the sort of compliance advice and monitoring Trump could have used. Example: After the Washington Post discovered Trump's foundation had illegally sent a $25,000 check to a political action committee for Florida's attorney general, his campaign blamed clerical errors by his staff, who wrote both charitable and noncharitable checks. Foundation Source clients, by contrast, submit the grants they want to make online, and the service vets them to make sure the beneficiary is an eligible charity before cutting the check. What the Foundation Source doesn't do, however, is manage the money in a foundation. You or your favorite investment advisor do that. If you want to outsource both investment and administrative management, expect fees to run around 2% of assets a year for a $5 million foundation. One established option is Philadelphia's Glenmede Trust, set up 60 years ago to manage charitable giving, in perpetuity, for the Pew family. Patriarch Joseph Newton Pew Sr. made so much money on Sun Oil that his heirs appeared on the first FORBES list of the 400 richest Americans in 1982--despite the fact that Pew had left the bulk of his fortune to charity.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Got $500,000 or more you'd like to dedicate to charity now, before Trump's tax cuts slice the tax breaks for giving? Surprisingly, you can still set up and deduct contributions to a private family foundation in 2016 and won't have to make mandatory distributions from it until December 31, 2017. At that point you must give at least 5% of assets in grants to public charities a year. (Note that the Internal Revenue Service will likely take months to grant a tax exemption to your new foundation, but approval will be retroactive.)

While donor-advised funds are a more practical way to manage smaller charitable kitties, a private foundation makes it possible to involve multiple generations in your charitable mission. And running a foundation isn't as tricky as you might fear; the sort of "self-dealing" and other violations that the Donald J. Trump Foundation has now fessed up to are easily avoided if you get professional advice--and follow it.

You'll need to either hire a local lawyer and/or CPA who specializes in foundations or use a national service. One safe option is 15-year-old Foundation Source in Fairfield, Connecticut, which administers 1,300 of the nation's estimated 82,000 private foundations. It charges $6,000 for setup, including the IRS and state applications. Yearly administrative charges start at $5,000 for foundations with $500,000 or less in assets and run around $20,000 (or just 0.4% of assets) for a $5 million foundation.

That fee buys the filing of your foundation's annual tax return (a 990 PF) and the sort of compliance advice and monitoring Trump could have used. Example: After the Washington Post discovered Trump's foundation had illegally sent a $25,000 check to a political action committee for Florida's attorney general, his campaign blamed clerical errors by his staff, who wrote both charitable and noncharitable checks. Foundation Source clients, by contrast, submit the grants they want to make online, and the service vets them to make sure the beneficiary is an eligible charity before cutting the check.

What the Foundation Source doesn't do, however, is manage the money in a foundation. You or your favorite investment advisor do that. If you want to outsource both investment and administrative management, expect fees to run around 2% of assets a year for a $5 million foundation. One established option is Philadelphia's Glenmede Trust, set up 60 years ago to manage charitable giving, in perpetuity, for the Pew family. Patriarch Joseph Newton Pew Sr. made so much money on Sun Oil that his heirs appeared on the first FORBES list of the 400 richest Americans in 1982--despite the fact that Pew had left the bulk of his fortune to charity.

For more advice, see 10 Private Foundation Do's And Don'ts.