The Guardian view on David Beckham: embarrassed more than harassed

he latest batch of emails from online whistleblower Football Leaks cast David Beckham, one of England’s most liked and talented footballers, in a particularly poor light. While Mr Beckham says the missives are doctored , the impression garnered by any reader is of a vain, jealous, greedy man whose charitable work is part of a PR campaign to get a gong. In one particularly resonant phrase he chides his PR man for suggesting he put in a million dollars to help the UN. “If there was no fund, the money would be for me. This fucking money is mine,” comes the response. It ​strikes a chord – not just because the apparent entitlement makes it so funny; also because the cupidity it reveals is a wonderful illustration of why we can’t rely on charity and benevolence to replace the welfare state, or even to prop it up. There’s a question too about Football Leaks: is it a group of tech-savvy fans, driven by a need to expose malpractice and hypocrisy or is it a darker prank by trolls ? The evidence seems to be the former. The organisation has exposed controversial player-investment businesses that were later banned ; revealed Real Madrid paid more for Gareth Bale than for Cristiano Ronaldo , the club’s talismanic forward who is touchy about the idea he’s not the greatest; and claimed top stars avoided paying tax on millions of dollars of earnings by channelling the money abroad . Being embarrassed, Mr Beckham, appears the least of your worries. Topics  David Beckham

The latest batch of emails from online whistleblower Football Leaks cast David Beckham, one of England’s most liked and talented footballers, in a particularly poor light. While Mr Beckham says the missives are doctored, the impression garnered by any reader is of a vain, jealous, greedy man whose charitable work is part of a PR campaign to get a gong. In one particularly resonant phrase he chides his PR man for suggesting he put in a million dollars to help the UN. “If there was no fund, the money would be for me. This fucking money is mine,” comes the response. It ​strikes a chord – not just because the apparent entitlement makes it so funny; also because the cupidity it reveals is a wonderful illustration of why we can’t rely on charity and benevolence to replace the welfare state, or even to prop it up.

Me, marriage and a big regret: David Beckham tells all for Desert Island Discs Read more

There’s a question too about Football Leaks: is it a group of tech-savvy fans, driven by a need to expose malpractice and hypocrisy or is it a darker prank by trolls? The evidence seems to be the former. The organisation has exposed controversial player-investment businesses that were later banned; revealed Real Madrid paid more for Gareth Bale than for Cristiano Ronaldo, the club’s talismanic forward who is touchy about the idea he’s not the greatest; and claimed top stars avoided paying tax on millions of dollars of earnings by channelling the money abroad. Being embarrassed, Mr Beckham, appears the least of your worries.