Tom Brady Says His Super Bowl Jersey Was Stolen
Tom Brady Says His Super Bowl Jersey Was Stolen
Shares                New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady suspected that someone stole his Super Bowl winning game jersey after the team's record-breaking victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI on Sunday. Brady didn't appear angry on Sunday as he told Patriots owner Robert Kraft that he was unable to locate the jersey he wore as he led his team to a 34-28 overtime win. "Someone stole my game jersey," the star quarterback said after kissing Kraft on the cheek. "You better look online," Kraft replied in a locker room encounter that the NFL 's Dan Hanzus captured on video. The NFL shared the moment on Twitter, posting the video with the caption: "Hey can someone give Tom Brady his jersey back? #SB51."  Hey can someone give Tom Brady his jersey back? #SB51 (via @danhanzus ) pic.twitter.com/cv99qUW4XY  The moment was captured in the Patriots' locker room at the NRG Stadium as Kraft handed out victory cigars, according to Hanzus. Hanzus shared an extended version of the video via his personal Twitter account.  Robert Kraft handing out victory cigars, including a special visit to TB12. pic.twitter.com/4GVyJdbrfw  Shares                  Tom Brady Says His Super Bowl Jersey Was Stolen   Iman Shumpert seen in walking boot after suffering ankle sprain   Brandon Jennings: 'That's the worst we've looked this season'   DeMarcus Cousins earns 16th tech, faces automatic 1-game suspension   Is Jahlil Okafor's potential worth a big trade?   Big 12 commissioner: Baylor scandal 'just continues to ooze'   Kings won't deal DeMarcus Cousins before Feb. 23 deadline, Divac says   Patriots, Falcons out front in 2017 Way-Too-Early Power Rankings   Predicting the Patriots' offseason: Will Jimmy Garoppolo get traded?   Love, not rage, fueled Tom Brady's legendary Super Bowl LI win   Ranking all 51 Super Bowls   DOJ Cites 'National Security' in Call to Reinstate Immigration Order   Facebook Takes Search Warrant Challenge to Top Court   Senate Democrats Begin Protests Against Trump Education Secretary Pick   President Trump Not Welcome in UK Parliament, Speaker Says

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady suspected that someone stole his Super Bowl winning game jersey after the team's record-breaking victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI on Sunday.

Brady didn't appear angry on Sunday as he told Patriots owner Robert Kraft that he was unable to locate the jersey he wore as he led his team to a 34-28 overtime win.

"Someone stole my game jersey," the star quarterback said after kissing Kraft on the cheek.

"You better look online," Kraft replied in a locker room encounter that the NFL's Dan Hanzus captured on video.

The NFL shared the moment on Twitter, posting the video with the caption: "Hey can someone give Tom Brady his jersey back? #SB51."

The moment was captured in the Patriots' locker room at the NRG Stadium as Kraft handed out victory cigars, according to Hanzus.

Hanzus shared an extended version of the video via his personal Twitter account.