Thomson said Tunisia was '100% safe', Sousse attack inquest hears

A survivor of the Sousse beach attack in Tunisia was told by holiday operator Thomson the country was “100% safe” before booking their trip, despite official advice that there was a high threat from terrorism, an inquest has heard. Paul Thompson said he and his wife, Zoe, raised safety concerns with the travel agent after the attack on the Bardo museum in Tunis in March 2015, which claimed the lives of 21 people, including a British national, but were assured that it was a “one-off”, similar to the 7 July 2005 bombings in London. The couple subsequently booked a holiday to Sousse and were caught up in the attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel on 26 June 2015 by Seifeddine Rezgui, who killed 38 holidaymakers. Thompson told the inquests in London into the deaths of the 30 British victims that Amy Smallman, a travel agent at a Thomson Holidays shop in Ilkeston, Derbyshire, encouraged him and his wife to travel to Tunisia. Smallman denies telling him the country was “100% safe” and “pushing” Tunisia as a destination. Thompson told the inquest his wife had raised safety concerns after the Bardo attack during a visit to the branch in May 2015. “My recollection is [that we were told] it was a one-off and it is 100% safe,” Thompson said. Another member of staff likened the relationship between events in Tunis and Sousse to London and Skegness, he said. “They likened it to ‘If something happened in London, would that stop you from going to Skegness?’” Thompson told the inquest he was reassured that the Bardo museum was a “long way” from Sousse and Thomson would not allow the couple to travel if there were safety concerns. He said the travel agent recommended visiting the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) website for advice. The couple did so and were satisfied that because Sousse fell within the “green” area of the map, it would be safe to visit. Upon arrival at the Imperial Marhaba hotel, a representative of Tui, which owns Thomson Holidays, said during a welcome meeting that Tunisia was “100% safe”, Thompson told the inquest. The following day, Rezgui, a 23-year-old extremist, attacked the hotel from the beach, firing at holidaymakers with an AK47 assault rifle. “It was chaos,” Thompson said. Thompson said that had he been shown the specific advice on the FCO website, highlighting a “high threat from terrorism” that could target foreigners, he would not have booked a holiday to Tunisia. Howard Stevens QC, representing Tui, challenged his statement about the conversation with Smallman. “I’m going to put it to you that you were not told by Amy Smallman that it was 100% safe. You hadn’t even decided where you were going,” Stevens said. Thompson replied: “I’m 100% certain I was told it was 100% safe.” Smallman, questioned by Samantha Leek QC, the counsel to the inquests, said: “Nowhere is a 100% safe, I would never say that. That’s not something I would say.” She said if she were asked about safety, she would include it in her notes, which make no reference to any such conversation. However, Smallman said she would not have made a reference in her notes to recommending that a customer should visit the FCO website. Earlier, the inquest was told that links to foreign travel advice on Tui websites “couldn’t be better hidden”. Marc Worrall, the Tui website manager, took the inquest through a typical online booking process on Tui websites. Customers need to pass through seven webpages to complete a booking and it is not until the last of these that a reference is made to visiting the FCO website for “visas and travel advice”. The reference to travel advice before the Sousse attack was under a header “important information” and appeared after the customer had chosen their destination, hotel and flight, and entered all personal details and payment. Andrew Ritchie QC, representing 20 victims’ families, asked Worrall: “It couldn’t be better hidden, could it?” “I couldn’t comment on that,” Worrall replied. “It’s a standard template used for all destinations.” Topics  Tunisia   Africa   Middle East and North Africa   Tui Travel   Travel & leisure

A survivor of the Sousse beach attack in Tunisia was told by holiday operator Thomson the country was “100% safe” before booking their trip, despite official advice that there was a high threat from terrorism, an inquest has heard.

Paul Thompson said he and his wife, Zoe, raised safety concerns with the travel agent after the attack on the Bardo museum in Tunis in March 2015, which claimed the lives of 21 people, including a British national, but were assured that it was a “one-off”, similar to the 7 July 2005 bombings in London.

The couple subsequently booked a holiday to Sousse and were caught up in the attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel on 26 June 2015 by Seifeddine Rezgui, who killed 38 holidaymakers.

Thompson told the inquests in London into the deaths of the 30 British victims that Amy Smallman, a travel agent at a Thomson Holidays shop in Ilkeston, Derbyshire, encouraged him and his wife to travel to Tunisia.



Smallman denies telling him the country was “100% safe” and “pushing” Tunisia as a destination. Thompson told the inquest his wife had raised safety concerns after the Bardo attack during a visit to the branch in May 2015.

“My recollection is [that we were told] it was a one-off and it is 100% safe,” Thompson said.



Another member of staff likened the relationship between events in Tunis and Sousse to London and Skegness, he said. “They likened it to ‘If something happened in London, would that stop you from going to Skegness?’”

Thompson told the inquest he was reassured that the Bardo museum was a “long way” from Sousse and Thomson would not allow the couple to travel if there were safety concerns.

He said the travel agent recommended visiting the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) website for advice. The couple did so and were satisfied that because Sousse fell within the “green” area of the map, it would be safe to visit.

Upon arrival at the Imperial Marhaba hotel, a representative of Tui, which owns Thomson Holidays, said during a welcome meeting that Tunisia was “100% safe”, Thompson told the inquest.



The following day, Rezgui, a 23-year-old extremist, attacked the hotel from the beach, firing at holidaymakers with an AK47 assault rifle. “It was chaos,” Thompson said.

Thompson said that had he been shown the specific advice on the FCO website, highlighting a “high threat from terrorism” that could target foreigners, he would not have booked a holiday to Tunisia.

Howard Stevens QC, representing Tui, challenged his statement about the conversation with Smallman. “I’m going to put it to you that you were not told by Amy Smallman that it was 100% safe. You hadn’t even decided where you were going,” Stevens said.

Thompson replied: “I’m 100% certain I was told it was 100% safe.”

Smallman, questioned by Samantha Leek QC, the counsel to the inquests, said: “Nowhere is a 100% safe, I would never say that. That’s not something I would say.”

She said if she were asked about safety, she would include it in her notes, which make no reference to any such conversation. However, Smallman said she would not have made a reference in her notes to recommending that a customer should visit the FCO website.

Earlier, the inquest was told that links to foreign travel advice on Tui websites “couldn’t be better hidden”.

Marc Worrall, the Tui website manager, took the inquest through a typical online booking process on Tui websites. Customers need to pass through seven webpages to complete a booking and it is not until the last of these that a reference is made to visiting the FCO website for “visas and travel advice”.



The reference to travel advice before the Sousse attack was under a header “important information” and appeared after the customer had chosen their destination, hotel and flight, and entered all personal details and payment.

Andrew Ritchie QC, representing 20 victims’ families, asked Worrall: “It couldn’t be better hidden, could it?”



“I couldn’t comment on that,” Worrall replied. “It’s a standard template used for all destinations.”