Drake Spoke Out Against President Trump Last Night During A Concert
Drake Spoke Out Against President Trump Last Night During A Concert
Since Donald Trump was elected the 45th president of the United States, more and more celebrities have become vocal about how they feel about the election and the country’s state of affairs. Aubrey “Drake” Graham is the latest star to enter the fray. Last night, in the middle of a set in London’s O2 arena, Drake spoke candidly about the current and tumultuous political landscape. Drake is currently traveling from city to city on his “Boy Meets World” tour. “Every day I wake up, I see all this bullshit going on in the world. People trying to tear us apart, people trying to make us turn against each other,” he said as fans watched him from the stage. Drake also made a point to highlight the different races of people who were in attendance at his concert, as well, saying, “My proudest moment — if you take a look around in this room, you’ll see people from all races and all places — and all we did tonight was come inside this building, show love, celebrate life, more life, and more music.”  View on Instagram All before launching into a very pointed statement about President Trump. “And I just want you to understand if you ever thought for a second that any one man is going to tear this world apart you’re out of your motherfucking mind. It’s on us to keep this shit together. Fuck that man,” he said. You can read the full transcript of Drake’s speech here: “For some reason in my room they got the TVs set to CNN. Every day I wake up, I see all this bullshit going on in the world. People trying to tear us apart, people trying to make us turn against each other. So tonight, my proudest moment isn’t selling tickets or having people sing my songs. My proudest moment — if you take a look around in this room, you’ll see people from all races and all places — and all we did tonight was come inside this building, show love, celebrate life, more life, and more music. And I just want you to understand if you ever thought for a second that any one man is going to tear this world apart you’re out of your motherfucking mind. It’s on us to keep this shit together. Fuck that man.” Representatives for Drake did not immediately reply to BuzzFeed News’ requests for comments H/T Noisey   People Are Freaking Out Because Eminem Came For Donald...    18 Accessories For Anyone Who Loves Netflix More Than...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

6. You can read the full transcript of Drake’s speech here:

“For some reason in my room they got the TVs set to CNN. Every day I wake up, I see all this bullshit going on in the world. People trying to tear us apart, people trying to make us turn against each other. So tonight, my proudest moment isn’t selling tickets or having people sing my songs. My proudest moment — if you take a look around in this room, you’ll see people from all races and all places — and all we did tonight was come inside this building, show love, celebrate life, more life, and more music. And I just want you to understand if you ever thought for a second that any one man is going to tear this world apart you’re out of your motherfucking mind. It’s on us to keep this shit together. Fuck that man.”