Super Bowl LI reminded a ton of people of Trump’s victory on Election Night

Midway through the third quarter of Sunday’s Super Bowl in Houston, the Falcons led the Patriots 28-3 and had a greater than 99 percent chance of winning their first championship. President Trump, a Patriots fan, left his Super Bowl party early , and people made jokes about how happy NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell must have been , knowing that he wouldn’t have to hand the Lombardi Trophy to his Deflategate nemesis, Tom Brady. By the end of the night, Brady had orchestrated the greatest comeback in Super Bowl history , lifting the Patriots to a 34-28 win that was capped by a two-yard touchdown pitch to James White in overtime. As Goodell presented New England with the Lombardi Trophy, the joke was on everyone who had counted the Patriots out. Throughout New England’s incredible comeback, many people, including Bill Maher, Donald Trump Jr. and Michael Moore, made comparisons to Election Night and, of course, the prognostications at the time that Hillary Clinton would win. (The Goodell jokes from earlier were infinitely better.)   Atlanta has a 99.3% chance of winning, per ESPN. That's where we had Trump's chances in Pennsylvania at 1:10AM on Election Night — Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 6, 2017 Feeling a lot like election night — Peter Rosenberg (@Rosenbergradio) February 6, 2017 This is looking like Hillary all over again. — Bill Maher (@billmaher) February 6, 2017 The Falcons never should have kept emails on a private server — Tim Layden (@SITimLayden) February 6, 2017 This is literally Election Night in America all over again — Richard Chambers (@newschambers) February 6, 2017   Patriots 269 – Falcons 269 — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 6, 2017 This game reminds me of something. I can't quite place it. pic.twitter.com/JAPkRLrePZ — Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) February 6, 2017 In case you forgot… #SuperBowl  #SuperBowlSunday  pic.twitter.com/IrfJLAlV6G — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) February 6, 2017 Does this remind anyone else of something? I can't quite put my finger on it… https://t.co/BFtoJQcmtr — Ed O'Keefe (@nowthised) February 6, 2017 This #overtime is giving me #ptsd from the election night! pic.twitter.com/anrR69zQZe — John Leguizamo (@JohnLeguizamo) February 6, 2017 Is it me or did this game feel very similar to the 2016 election? #SuperBowl — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) February 6, 2017 Wow. Just like the November election. Complete with Falcon fans celebrating their Super Bowl victory 30 min early. — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) February 6, 2017 Tom Brady, Patriots rally to beat Falcons in overtime to win fifth Super Bowl Eight numbers that show just how crazy Patriots’ comeback really was Deflategate ended with Super Bowl LI and Roger Goodell heard the boos to prove it Trump left his Super Bowl party just as the Patriots began their historic rally Sean Spicer gets crushed by Super Bowl jokes, one night after SNL takedown ‘And sisterhood’: Schuyler Sisters put their own spin on ‘America the Beautiful’ Fans feeling weird about Trump-Brady tie find a way to cheer for Patriots without guilt Company forced to retool Super Bowl ad that depicted Trump’s border wall. See full ad here.  Patriots’ comeback darkens a nation’s already dark hour Julian Edelman one-upped Julio Jones’s insane fourth-quarter Super Bowl catch Gisele Bündchen had a classic reaction to the best Super Bowl ever Police: Super Bowl drunk drivers will be subjected to Justin Bieber ad Cowboys owner Jerry Jones loudly booed at Super Bowl $11 for a soda? Super Bowl concession prices were through the roof.

The New England Patriots rallied back from a historic deficit against the Atlanta Falcons to win Super Bowl LI during overtime on Feb. 5, making the Patriots' Tom Brady the first quarterback to win five Super Bowls. (Reuters)

Midway through the third quarter of Sunday’s Super Bowl in Houston, the Falcons led the Patriots 28-3 and had a greater than 99 percent chance of winning their first championship. President Trump, a Patriots fan, left his Super Bowl party early, and people made jokes about how happy NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell must have been, knowing that he wouldn’t have to hand the Lombardi Trophy to his Deflategate nemesis, Tom Brady.

By the end of the night, Brady had orchestrated the greatest comeback in Super Bowl history, lifting the Patriots to a 34-28 win that was capped by a two-yard touchdown pitch to James White in overtime. As Goodell presented New England with the Lombardi Trophy, the joke was on everyone who had counted the Patriots out. Throughout New England’s incredible comeback, many people, including Bill Maher, Donald Trump Jr. and Michael Moore, made comparisons to Election Night and, of course, the prognostications at the time that Hillary Clinton would win. (The Goodell jokes from earlier were infinitely better.)

[Fans feeling weird about Trump-Brady tie find a way to cheer for Pats without guilt]

Atlanta has a 99.3% chance of winning, per ESPN. That's where we had Trump's chances in Pennsylvania at 1:10AM on Election Night — Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 6, 2017

Feeling a lot like election night — Peter Rosenberg (@Rosenbergradio) February 6, 2017

This is looking like Hillary all over again. — Bill Maher (@billmaher) February 6, 2017

The Falcons never should have kept emails on a private server — Tim Layden (@SITimLayden) February 6, 2017

This is literally Election Night in America all over again — Richard Chambers (@newschambers) February 6, 2017

[‘And sisterhood': Schuyler Sisters put their own spin on ‘America the Beautiful’]

Patriots 269 – Falcons 269 — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 6, 2017

This game reminds me of something. I can't quite place it. pic.twitter.com/JAPkRLrePZ — Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) February 6, 2017

Does this remind anyone else of something? I can't quite put my finger on it… https://t.co/BFtoJQcmtr — Ed O'Keefe (@nowthised) February 6, 2017

Is it me or did this game feel very similar to the 2016 election? #SuperBowl — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) February 6, 2017

Wow. Just like the November election. Complete with Falcon fans celebrating their Super Bowl victory 30 min early. — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) February 6, 2017

More from Super Bowl LI:

Tom Brady, Patriots rally to beat Falcons in overtime to win fifth Super Bowl

Eight numbers that show just how crazy Patriots’ comeback really was

Deflategate ended with Super Bowl LI and Roger Goodell heard the boos to prove it

Trump left his Super Bowl party just as the Patriots began their historic rally

Sean Spicer gets crushed by Super Bowl jokes, one night after SNL takedown

‘And sisterhood’: Schuyler Sisters put their own spin on ‘America the Beautiful’

Fans feeling weird about Trump-Brady tie find a way to cheer for Patriots without guilt

Company forced to retool Super Bowl ad that depicted Trump’s border wall. See full ad here.

Couch Slouch: Patriots’ comeback darkens a nation’s already dark hour

Julian Edelman one-upped Julio Jones’s insane fourth-quarter Super Bowl catch

Gisele Bündchen had a classic reaction to the best Super Bowl ever

Police: Super Bowl drunk drivers will be subjected to Justin Bieber ad

Cowboys owner Jerry Jones loudly booed at Super Bowl

$11 for a soda? Super Bowl concession prices were through the roof.