Revealed: The cheapest place for a last-minute half-term holiday
Revealed: The cheapest place for a last-minute half-term holiday
yprus is the cheapest option for a last-minute February half-term getaway, new research has shown. Paphos, on the island's west coast, and also one of 2017’s two European Capitals of Culture, ranked first in an analysis of package holiday prices and on-the-ground costs in 10 popular winter sun destinations. The research conducted by the Post Office calculated the cost of a February half-term package holiday for two adults and two children, along with eight essential holiday purchases spread, including seven bottles of beer, 14 cups of coffee, and seven three-course family meals. Cyprus, “a land for romantics, dotted with castles, churches, monasteries, mosaics, white-sand beaches and the bluest of seas”, according to our expert, Fiona Hardcastle , beat Lanzarote to first place. The former recorded overall costs of £1,131, next to the latter’s £1,664. In third place was Cancun in Mexico, with all the items costing £2,106, the only destination in the top five not to use the euro. The Mexican peso is the only currency weaker against the pound than a year ago in the research, with Britons receiving around 2.5 per cent more for their money. “Sterling’s recent rally means that holidaymakers will not have to dig quite so far into their pockets as they would have had to do a few weeks ago,” explained the Post Office’s Andrew Brown. “However, there are big difference in prices among winter sun resorts and these can really have an impact on the overall holiday budget.” The more expensive destinations in the ranking were all long-haul, with Jumeirah in Dubai, the dearest, with overall costs of £3,266. In ninth place was Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic (£2,791); in eighth was Penang in Malaysia (£2,382). “Bargain-hunters will be well advised to add the cost of meals and drinks in resorts to the price of a holiday package to find the destination that will give them the best overall value,” added Brown. “In places like Dubai where meal and drinks prices are high, booking all-inclusive packages will keep their costs down.” Last month, the Post Office’s annual global holiday costs barometer rated the Algarve in Portugal, once again, as the cheapest place in the world for a summer holiday. It pipped Bulgaria’s Sunny Beach to the top spot.

Cyprus is the cheapest option for a last-minute February half-term getaway, new research has shown.

Paphos, on the island's west coast, and also one of 2017’s two European Capitals of Culture, ranked first in an analysis of package holiday prices and on-the-ground costs in 10 popular winter sun destinations.

Cyprus is more than just beaches Credit: Riviera Travel

The research conducted by the Post Office calculated the cost of a February half-term package holiday for two adults and two children, along with eight essential holiday purchases spread, including seven bottles of beer, 14 cups of coffee, and seven three-course family meals.

Cyprus, “a land for romantics, dotted with castles, churches, monasteries, mosaics, white-sand beaches and the bluest of seas”, according to our expert, Fiona Hardcastle, beat Lanzarote to first place. The former recorded overall costs of £1,131, next to the latter’s £1,664.

In third place was Cancun in Mexico, with all the items costing £2,106, the only destination in the top five not to use the euro. The Mexican peso is the only currency weaker against the pound than a year ago in the research, with Britons receiving around 2.5 per cent more for their money.

“Sterling’s recent rally means that holidaymakers will not have to dig quite so far into their pockets as they would have had to do a few weeks ago,” explained the Post Office’s Andrew Brown.

“However, there are big difference in prices among winter sun resorts and these can really have an impact on the overall holiday budget.”

The more expensive destinations in the ranking were all long-haul, with Jumeirah in Dubai, the dearest, with overall costs of £3,266. In ninth place was Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic (£2,791); in eighth was Penang in Malaysia (£2,382).

“Bargain-hunters will be well advised to add the cost of meals and drinks in resorts to the price of a holiday package to find the destination that will give them the best overall value,” added Brown.

“In places like Dubai where meal and drinks prices are high, booking all-inclusive packages will keep their costs down.”

Dubai is the most expensive holiday option Credit: © F.Bettex - lookandprint.com / Alamy Stock Photo/F.Bettex - lookandprint.com / Alamy Stock Photo

Last month, the Post Office’s annual global holiday costs barometer rated the Algarve in Portugal, once again, as the cheapest place in the world for a summer holiday. It pipped Bulgaria’s Sunny Beach to the top spot.