SC Hears Nirbhaya's Rapists Death Penalty Appeal, ISRO Launches 104 Rockets And Other Must Reads
SC Hears Nirbhaya's Rapists Death Penalty Appeal, ISRO Launches 104 Rockets And Other Stories
SC Hears Nirbhaya's Rapists Death Penalty Appeal, ISRO Launches 104 Rockets And Other Must Reads After the Supreme Court decided to hear to case of four accused of 2012 Nirbhaya rape case who have challenged Delhi High Court’s verdict of death penalty against them on February, victim’s parents have called it 'travesty of justice' and the amicus curiae as 'friends of the convicts'. Today Supeme Court will come out with verdict on the death penalty of the four convicts- Akshay, Pawan, Vinay Sharma, and Mukesh, but according to Nirbhaya’s parents, the SC shouldn’t have entertained their case in the first place. Read more 1. Kuwait Denies Imposing Travel Ban On Pakistan And Other Muslim Countries Kuwait has denied a media report which said it had imposed a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, a story which US President Donald Trump praised on Facebook. "Smart!" a post on Trump's official Facebook page said on Thursday, linking to a report on Jordanian news website Al Bawaba which alleged that Kuwait had "mirrored" a decision by the Trump administration to temporarily bar travelers from several countries. Read more 2. With Nearly A Thousand Children Dead, 2016 Saw Most Child Victims In Years Of Afghanistan Conflict In 2016, a record number of children were killed in Afghanistan’s conflict, according to the United Nations Mission in the country. The number of children killed rose by 25% and amounted to 923 deaths. The 2016 Annual Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict in Afghanistan, released on Monday, documents an overall three per cent rise in civilian casualties — both deaths and injuries — from the previous year. Read more  3. 36 Injured As 900 Bulls And 700 Bull Tamers Battled It Out In A Jallikattu Event In Tamil Nadu's Avanipuram Thirty-six people were injured, one of them seriously, in a Jallikattu event held at Avanipuram in the district amid high security on Sunday in which more than 900 bulls were used, police said. All the injured were being treated at the medical camp put up near the venue, police said.

After the Supreme Court decided to hear to case of four accused of 2012 Nirbhaya rape case who have challenged Delhi High Court’s verdict of death penalty against them on February, victim’s parents have called it 'travesty of justice' and the amicus curiae as 'friends of the convicts'.

Indiatimes

Today Supeme Court will come out with verdict on the death penalty of the four convicts- Akshay, Pawan, Vinay Sharma, and Mukesh, but according to Nirbhaya’s parents, the SC shouldn’t have entertained their case in the first place. Read more

1. Kuwait Denies Imposing Travel Ban On Pakistan And Other Muslim Countries

Kuwait has denied a media report which said it had imposed a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, a story which US President Donald Trump praised on Facebook.

Indiatimes

"Smart!" a post on Trump's official Facebook page said on Thursday, linking to a report on Jordanian news website Al Bawaba which alleged that Kuwait had "mirrored" a decision by the Trump administration to temporarily bar travelers from several countries. Read more

2. With Nearly A Thousand Children Dead, 2016 Saw Most Child Victims In Years Of Afghanistan Conflict

In 2016, a record number of children were killed in Afghanistan’s conflict, according to the United Nations Mission in the country. The number of children killed rose by 25% and amounted to 923 deaths.

Reuters

The 2016 Annual Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict in Afghanistan, released on Monday, documents an overall three per cent rise in civilian casualties — both deaths and injuries — from the previous year. Read more

3. 36 Injured As 900 Bulls And 700 Bull Tamers Battled It Out In A Jallikattu Event In Tamil Nadu's Avanipuram

Thirty-six people were injured, one of them seriously, in a Jallikattu event held at Avanipuram in the district amid high security on Sunday in which more than 900 bulls were used, police said. All the injured were being treated at the medical camp put up near the venue, police said.

Indiatimes

More than 700 bull-tamers participated in the events, which were witnessed by thousands of spectators. The bull-taming sport was formally inaugurated by Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar and District Collector Veeraraghava Rao. Read more

4. More Than 1 Million People Shared This Note Asking Parents To Get Off Their Phones

Smitten by technology, most of us have gone in an interminable relationship with our cell-phones.

Indiatimes

We use them while we are driving, eating, watching tv and everywhere possible, almost forgetting about the person sitting next to us. This trend has fueled the augmentation of personal distance amongst people who live with each other. Owing to the same issue, a day-care centre shared a note asking parents to stop using their cellphones while they come to pick their kids. The note was shared by Juliana Farris Mazurkewicz, who was there to pick her kid. Read more

5. Here's Everything You Need To Know About ISRO's Record-Breaking Satellite Launch That'll Happen Next Week

The much laudable ISRO's task of launching a record-breaking 104 satellites in one go using its workhorse PSLV-C37 in the first week of February has been making headlines for a couple of weeks now.

Indiatimes

"We are making a century by launching over 100 satellites at one go," said S Somnath, Director of the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre of the ISRO.

The space agency had earlier planned a launch of 83 satellites in the last week of January, of which 80 were foreign ones. Read more