Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy's 'SNL' Impression
Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy's 'SNL' Impression
Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy's 'SNL' Impression  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer tried to find the humor in Melissa McCarthy’s portrayal of him on the latest episode of . McCarthy channeled a tightly wound Spicer, angrily spewing “alternative facts” and insults to journalists. She even dumped an entire box of gum in her mouth to mock the press secretary’s habit of chewing and swallowing Orbit cinnamon gum whole. The skit was a hit, with currently more than 12 million views on YouTube. Spicer, while talking to at the Super Bowl, said he found the sketch to be “cute” and “funny.” He did, however, fire back at the gum scene, saying McCarthy “could dial back” and humorously added that she “needs to slow down on the gum chewing; way too many pieces in there.”  Spicer’s reaction is a surprisingly tame one in comparison to the history of the Trump administration’s relationship with the NBC sketch comedy show. President Donald Trump hosted in November 2015, but has since expressed an extreme disapproval of Alec Baldwin’s portrayal of him. Trump has taken to Twitter to call the show “mean-spirited,” “unwatchable” and “the worst of NBC.” . @NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! Spicer defended Trump’s opinion of in his interview, stating, “There’s a streak of meanness that they have kind of crossed over into.” In case you missed it, check out Melissa McCarthy’s performance as Press Secretary Sean Spicer below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Melissa McCarthy as Press Secretary Sean Spicer during the "Sean Spicer Press Conference" sketchÂ on 'Saturday Night Live' on Feb. 4th, 2017.Â

White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer tried to find the humor in Melissa McCarthy’s portrayal of him on the latest episode of Saturday Night Live.

McCarthy channeled a tightly wound Spicer, angrily spewing “alternative facts” and insults to journalists. She even dumped an entire box of gum in her mouth to mock the press secretary’s habit of chewing and swallowing Orbit cinnamon gum whole. The skit was a hit, with currently more than 12 million views on YouTube.

Spicer, while talking to Extra at the Super Bowl, said he found the sketch to be “cute” and “funny.” He did, however, fire back at the gum scene, saying McCarthy “could dial back” and humorously added that she “needs to slow down on the gum chewing; way too many pieces in there.”

Spicer’s reaction is a surprisingly tame one in comparison to the history of the Trump administration’s relationship with the NBC sketch comedy show.

President Donald Trump hosted SNL in November 2015, but has since expressed an extreme disapproval of Alec Baldwin’s portrayal of him. Trump has taken to Twitter to call the show “mean-spirited,” “unwatchable” and “the worst of NBC.”

.@NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC. Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job. Really bad television! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2017

Spicer defended Trump’s opinion of SNL in his interview, stating, “There’s a streak of meanness that they have kind of crossed over into.”

In case you missed it, check out Melissa McCarthy’s performance as Press Secretary Sean Spicer below.