WATCH: Trump Opens Up About Criticizing Obama to His Face at Inauguration

WATCH: Trump Opens Up About Criticizing Obama to His Face at Inauguration // // // // //  Before Super Bowl LI, Bill O'Reilly sat down with President Donald Trump for a wide-ranging interview that made headlines all over the world. Tonight on "The O'Reilly Factor," we saw portions of the interview that didn't air during FOX's Super Bowl pregame show, including Trump's thoughts on sanctuary cities and his Inauguration Day criticism of former President Barack Obama. O'Reilly noted that Democrats in California are pushing a bill to become a sanctuary state . and asked if that puts the federal government and California on a collision course. Trump said that his administration won't stand for sanctuary cities, let alone states, and it's clear that California is "out of control." "I'm very much opposed to sanctuary cities," Trump said. "They breed crime. There's a lot of problems." O'Reilly moved on to Trump's Inauguration Day speech, during which he blasted President Obama while standing mere feet away from him. "Your speech excoriated him," O'Reilly said. "You basically took his administration apart, and he’s sitting five feet away from you." Trump said he wasn't trying to attack Obama, but he also wasn't going to lie about the many issues facing our country following his eight years in office. "See, I’m an honest person, and the country has very, very deep-seated problems. We have to do something about it," Trump said. "And if you noticed, when I finished my speech, I turned around and shook his hand ... and he was very gracious and smiling." "This isn't just a knock on him. We've been going down the wrong path for many years beyond him." Watch more above, and tune in to "The O'Reilly Factor" tomorrow night for more of Bill's one-on-one with the president.

Programming Alert: Watch more from Bill O'Reilly's interview with President Trump on Tuesday on "The O'Reilly Factor" at 8:00 p.m. ET on Fox News Channel.

Before Super Bowl LI, Bill O'Reilly sat down with President Donald Trump for a wide-ranging interview that made headlines all over the world.

Tonight on "The O'Reilly Factor," we saw portions of the interview that didn't air during FOX's Super Bowl pregame show, including Trump's thoughts on sanctuary cities and his Inauguration Day criticism of former President Barack Obama.

O'Reilly noted that Democrats in California are pushing a bill to become a sanctuary state. and asked if that puts the federal government and California on a collision course.

Trump said that his administration won't stand for sanctuary cities, let alone states, and it's clear that California is "out of control."

"I'm very much opposed to sanctuary cities," Trump said. "They breed crime. There's a lot of problems."

O'Reilly moved on to Trump's Inauguration Day speech, during which he blasted President Obama while standing mere feet away from him.

"Your speech excoriated him," O'Reilly said. "You basically took his administration apart, and he’s sitting five feet away from you."

Trump said he wasn't trying to attack Obama, but he also wasn't going to lie about the many issues facing our country following his eight years in office.

"See, I’m an honest person, and the country has very, very deep-seated problems. We have to do something about it," Trump said. "And if you noticed, when I finished my speech, I turned around and shook his hand ... and he was very gracious and smiling."

"This isn't just a knock on him. We've been going down the wrong path for many years beyond him."

Watch more above, and tune in to "The O'Reilly Factor" tomorrow night for more of Bill's one-on-one with the president.

O'Reilly Presses Trump on Travel Ban, Views on Putin in Super Bowl Interview

George Foreman to Trump: 'You Just Have to Fight'

Hannity: Trump Is Showing the World There's a New Sheriff in Town

Top Trump Advisor in 2014: World Must Confront Radical Islam Now