The perfect meal prep foods for weight loss revealed
The perfect meal prep foods for weight loss revealed


Meal prepping is the ever so slightly smug Instagram craze for preparing all your weekday meals in advance.

It's an efficient way for health and fitness fanatics to make sure they still eat the right foods when pressed for time.

But if you're looking to join the masses of people who meal prep every week as they try to achieve their weight loss goals, then you need to know the best foods to fill your plastic containers with.

Meal prepping is the Instagram craze for preparing healthy meals in advance. But it doesn't need to be complicated, as this new graphic proves (right). Pictured, salmon with rice

Meals prepped in advance don't need to be complicated - and MealPrepOnFleek.com says they just need to contain a minimum of three ingredients.

Meal prep bloggers suggest planning your meals two to three days before you want to start preparing your food so you can go out and buy the ingredients you need, rather than be tempted by impulse purchases.

THE BEST INGREDIENTS TO FILL YOUR MEAL PREP BOXES WITH Protein: Chicken breast Chicken thighs Turkey breast Salmon Cod Haddock Shrimp Tilapia Tuna Steak Lean ground beef Pork Sausages Bacon Eggs Greek yoghurt Cheese Protein powder Black beans Lentils Garbanzo beans Tofu Tempeh Edamame Vegetable: Spinach Green beans Broccoli Brussels sprouts Asparagus Kale Carrots Snow peas Squash (butternut, acorn, spaghetti squash, kabocha) Jicama Mushrooms Salad (lettuce, tomato, cucumber, peppers, onions, etc) Starch: Quinoa Rice (brown, white, jasmine, black, wild grain) Potatoes (sweet, Japanese, red bliss) Whole grain pasta Rolled Oats Oatbran Whole grain cereal Whole grain bread Healthy fat: Coconut oil Avocado oil Olive oil Flax oil

All the ingredients can be mixed and matched. MealPrepOnFleek suggests a combination of salmon, quinoa, and spinach, or chicken, kale and rice.

Then all that's left to do is cook your food and fill your boxes, which can be done on a Sunday or Monday - the most popular days for meal prepping.

Just be careful with certain proteins such as fish, which only keep for a maximum of two days once cooked.

WHAT'S FOR BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND DINNER? Breakfast: Egg white muffins with tomatoes and spinach (top) Optional snacks throughout the day: Cucumbers (top left), tomatoes (top), avocados (top), peppers (right), spinach (right), black beans (right), bananas (centre), apples (top right) Lunch: Meatless meatballs topped with bbq sauce, brown rice and baked carrots (centre) Dinner: Black bean/veggie burgers with baked carrots, baked peppers and brown rice mix (bottom) Dessert: Greek yogurts and blueberries (centre)

Pictured: Lunch options include chicken, asparagus and sweet potatoes (centre) and turkey chilli with mozzarella (far left). Some dinner choices are steak with carrots and asparagus (second left) and chicken breast with baked carrots (bottom right). Snacks include boiled eggs (top left), chicken with fresh peppers and hummus (top right), baby carrots and peppers (centre) and protein bars (top right). For dessert pineapple, strawberries and coconut (bottom right) and bananas (right)

Pictured: Lunch choices include quinoa and cucumber stir fry (left), while for dinner you could have broccoli quinoa casserole (right). For dessert carrots and watermelon (also right)

Pictured: Oatmeal with PB2, goji berries and Chia seeds for breakfast (left) and peppers, cucumbers and baby carrots with hummus (bottom), Greek yogurts (second right), watermelon (right) and apples (bottom) for snacking until lunchtime

Pictured: Morning snack options include protein powder (bottom left), bananas (centre), kiwi and mixed nuts (bottom right), Greek yogurt with Chia seeds and raspberries (centre). For lunch try peanut butter sandwiches (centre)

Pictured: Lunchtime pasta dish with fresh tomatoes, peppers, peas and mince meat as protein

But you shouldn't be stuck for inspiration, as Instagram is full of mouthwatering images of prepped food under the #mealprep and #mealprepdaily hashtags.

In fact, there are more than 4.5 million photos tagged using the #mealprep hashtag.