The Internet Loved Those Political Super Bowl Ads
The Internet Loved Those Political Super Bowl Ads
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Madeline Berg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Airbnb's spot--which celebrated diversity--was made in direct response to Trump's executive order on immigration. (Courtesy of Airbnb) With less than 10% of the Super Bowl broadcast dedicated to the actual playing of the game and over twice that much time--or 24%--devoted to ads, it’s safe to say that advertisers were in just as heated a competition as the Patriots and Falcons. Yet despite the high costs (about $5 million per 30-second spot) and high expectations, many brands decided to go against the conventional advertising wisdom and get political. “We are living in very unique times right now, and the purpose of marketing is to reflect the real world,” says Steven Osinski, the former owner of an advertising agency and a professor of marketing at San Diego State University. “In troubled or challenging times, the advertisers wanted to make more of a statement.” Politically tinged ads came from legacy brands like Budweiser and first-time Super Bowl advertisers like 84 Lumber. And, for the most part, getting political--whether on purpose or not--paid off. According to attention analytics company iSpot.TV, all of the political ads garnered at least a 61% “positive” sentiment. Budweiser, routinely one of the Super Bowl’s biggest advertisers, received plenty of buzz after it previewed its “Born The Hard Way” spot , which told the immigrant story of cofounder Adolphus Busch. The nearly $9.8 million ad was conceived of prior to Donald Trump’s immigration ban and was not meant to be a political statement, but was certainly greeted as such on both sides of the aisle. The ad prompted a #BoycottBudweiser campaign from supporters of Trump’s immigration restrictions, while others empathized with the character being told, “You don’t look like you're from here.” On social media, the brand had the highest game day engagement across Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, YouTube, Google+ and Wikipedia, according to digital analytics company ListenFirst. And, despite the controversy, the most common reaction to the ad on Facebook was “love,” according to Canvs . Some 46.9% of all emotional reactions expressed this sentiment, while 12.4% expressed “enjoy.” Only 4.1% of reactions expressed hate. Unlike Budweiser, Airbnb— one of the first major brands to speak out against Trump’s travel curbs—purchased a last-minute spot in direct response to the executive order. The $5.3 million ad featured a rainbow of faces along with the message, “we believe no matter who you are, where you’re from, who you love, or who you worship, we all belong. The world is more beautiful the more you accept.” It concluded with the hashtag “#WeAccept,” which was trending throughout the night. The response to the ad was 65% positive, according to iSpot.TV. On Facebook and YouTube, love was the most common emotional reaction, at 41.5% and 14.6%, respectively, according to Canvs. But on YouTube, hate was the second-most common emotion at 14%. While it wasn’t one of the most engaged-with ads of the night on social media, the brand (whose name wasn’t even mentioned during the entire clip) still saw a boost. “While Airbnb didn’t crack Sunday’s top 10 with their last-minute #WeAccept spot, it’s generating tons of buzz,” says ListenFirst’s cofounder and co-CEO Jason Klein, citing the 2,400% increase in social conversation around the brand and the fact that the #WeAccept hashtag has been mentioned on Twitter over 66,000 times. 84 Lumber's ad, which depicted a Mexican family immigrating to America, originally featured a border wall, which Fox deemed "too controversial." (Courtesy of 84 Lumber) Even smaller brands with more to lose took on the subject. 84 Lumber, a Pennsylvania building supplies company, spent an impressive $15 million on its ad about Mexican immigration. The spot, which was all in Spanish, featured a hopeful mother and daughter journeying from Mexico to America. While the original version featured the depiction of Trump’s proposed wall, Fox deemed it “too controversial” for the final cut. The spot got people talking: There was a 10,000% increase in conversation around Lumber 84 from the day prior, according to ListenFirst. On Facebook, where the ad garnered over 1.3 million views, the top emotional reactions of commenters were love (32.2 %) and beautiful (16.1%), according to Canvs. Overall, the reaction to the spot was 87% positive, with only 1.1% of viewers tuning out when it aired, according to iSpot.TV. “It was just a beautiful ad,” says Osinski. “Sure, there was a political message, but it was a hopeful ad.” Many more brands—both newer and heritage—got political: Google had a line in Spanish, Coca-Cola brought back a multilingual 2014 ad, and Audi commented on the gender pay gap in the U.S.These ads garnered 93%, 81% and 71% positive reactions, respectively. With these reactions, don’t be surprised to see ads continue to make political statements. “Last night was unusual,” says Beth Egan, an advertising professor at Syracuse University’s Newhouse School. “I think it is a reaction to Trump, and I think we will see more of it.  For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

With less than 10% of the Super Bowl broadcast dedicated to the actual playing of the game and over twice that much time--or 24%--devoted to ads, it’s safe to say that advertisers were in just as heated a competition as the Patriots and Falcons.

Yet despite the high costs (about $5 million per 30-second spot) and high expectations, many brands decided to go against the conventional advertising wisdom and get political.

“We are living in very unique times right now, and the purpose of marketing is to reflect the real world,” says Steven Osinski, the former owner of an advertising agency and a professor of marketing at San Diego State University. “In troubled or challenging times, the advertisers wanted to make more of a statement.”

Politically tinged ads came from legacy brands like Budweiser and first-time Super Bowl advertisers like 84 Lumber. And, for the most part, getting political--whether on purpose or not--paid off. According to attention analytics company iSpot.TV, all of the political ads garnered at least a 61% “positive” sentiment.

Budweiser, routinely one of the Super Bowl’s biggest advertisers, received plenty of buzz after it previewed its “Born The Hard Way” spot, which told the immigrant story of cofounder Adolphus Busch. The nearly $9.8 million ad was conceived of prior to Donald Trump’s immigration ban and was not meant to be a political statement, but was certainly greeted as such on both sides of the aisle. The ad prompted a #BoycottBudweiser campaign from supporters of Trump’s immigration restrictions, while others empathized with the character being told, “You don’t look like you're from here.”

On social media, the brand had the highest game day engagement across Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, YouTube, Google+ and Wikipedia, according to digital analytics company ListenFirst. And, despite the controversy, the most common reaction to the ad on Facebook was “love,” according to emotion analytics company Canvs. Some 46.9% of all emotional reactions expressed this sentiment, while 12.4% expressed “enjoy.” Only 4.1% of reactions expressed hate.

Unlike Budweiser, Airbnb—one of the first major brands to speak out against Trump’s travel curbs—purchased a last-minute spot in direct response to the executive order. The $5.3 million ad featured a rainbow of faces along with the message, “we believe no matter who you are, where you’re from, who you love, or who you worship, we all belong. The world is more beautiful the more you accept.” It concluded with the hashtag “#WeAccept,” which was trending throughout the night.

The response to the ad was 65% positive, according to iSpot.TV. On Facebook and YouTube, love was the most common emotional reaction, at 41.5% and 14.6%, respectively, according to Canvs. But on YouTube, hate was the second-most common emotion at 14%.

While it wasn’t one of the most engaged-with ads of the night on social media, the brand (whose name wasn’t even mentioned during the entire clip) still saw a boost.

“While Airbnb didn’t crack Sunday’s top 10 with their last-minute #WeAccept spot, it’s generating tons of buzz,” says ListenFirst’s cofounder and co-CEO Jason Klein, citing the 2,400% increase in social conversation around the brand and the fact that the #WeAccept hashtag has been mentioned on Twitter over 66,000 times.

Even smaller brands with more to lose took on the subject. 84 Lumber, a Pennsylvania building supplies company, spent an impressive $15 million on its ad about Mexican immigration. The spot, which was all in Spanish, featured a hopeful mother and daughter journeying from Mexico to America. While the original version featured the depiction of Trump’s proposed wall, Fox deemed it “too controversial” for the final cut. (The full version is available on 84 Lumber's website, which crashed due to a flood of traffic following the ad's airing).

The spot got people talking: There was a 10,000% increase in conversation around Lumber 84 from the day prior, according to ListenFirst. On Facebook, where the ad garnered over 1.3 million views, the top emotional reactions of commenters were love (32.2 %) and beautiful (16.1%), according to Canvs. Overall, the reaction to the spot was 87% positive, with only 1.1% of viewers tuning out when it aired, according to iSpot.TV.

“It was just a beautiful ad,” says Osinski. “Sure, there was a political message, but it was a hopeful ad.”

Many more brands—both newer and heritage—got political: Google had a line in Spanish, Coca-Cola brought back a multilingual 2014 ad, and Audi commented on the gender pay gap in the U.S.These ads garnered 93%, 81% and 71% positive reactions, respectively.

With these reactions, don’t be surprised to see ads continue to make political statements.

“Last night was unusual,” says Beth Egan, an advertising professor at Syracuse University’s Newhouse School. “I think it is a reaction to Trump, and I think we will see more of it.

For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg.