Jahlil Okafor Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding 76ers Center
Jahlil Okafor Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding 76ers Center
Just under three weeks remain until the Feb. 23 NBA trade deadline, so the Philadelphia 76ers are running out of time to deal big man Jahlil Okafor before he's committed to the team for the remainder of the 2016-17 campaign. Continue for updates. Sam Amick of reported the New Orleans Pelicans are discussing a deal for Okafor, with the 76ers "pushing" for the Pelicans' first-round draft pick. Kevin Smith of RealGM reported that pick protection is the "hold up" with the talks and that the Pelicans want to protect the pick in the lottery, but the 76ers want top-five or top-10 protection. Marc. J Spears of The Undefeated reported the 76ers could also get center Alexis Ajinca in addition to the draft pick. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical added that the Pelicans tried to include Omer Asik in the deal, but the 76ers passed. Despite the talks, Jeff Zillgitt of reported "multiple teams" have interest in Okafor and that the 76ers won't rush into a trade. Okafor told reporters trade rumors will be "a part of my life probably for as long as I'm in the NBA" and added the rumors don't really give him any kind of extra incentive in practice or games. CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill reported Thursday the Chicago Bulls are in talks with the 76ers about a potential Okafor trade. Goodwill clarified that any deal is far from imminent, but a line of communication between the two teams remains open. In another era, Okafor would be a franchise cornerstone for Philadelphia. The center is averaging 11.4 points and 4.8 rebounds in 23.1 minutes a night, and he only turned 21 in December. Okafor's inability to defend the paint makes him a major liability in today's NBA, though. The Sixers are allowing 6.7 more points per 100 possessions when he's on the floor, according to NBA.com . Especially with Joel Embiid's emergence, it's looking increasingly like Okafor has little to no future in Philadelphia. He has two more years remaining on his rookie deal before the possibility of his hitting restricted free agency, though, so the Sixers still have plenty of leverage in any trade. Because of that leverage, it's doubtful the Bulls have the pieces to acquire Okafor. Philadelphia wouldn't want to take on one of Chicago's expensive veterans such as Taj Gibson, Rajon Rondo or Robin Lopez, and the team has few young stars who could offer fair value for Okafor. Bobby Portis has taken a slight step back in his second season, but trading him would be short-sighted. Aside from Portis, Cristiano Felicio, Jerian Grant and Denzel Valentine would be the likeliest candidates to move. Since he still has time to mull any offers, Sixers general manager Bryan Colangelo may be hesitant about flipping Okafor—the No. 3 pick in 2015—for 50 cents on the dollar. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Rocky Widner/Getty Images

Joseph Zucker Featured Columnist IV

Just under three weeks remain until the Feb. 23 NBA trade deadline, so the Philadelphia 76ers are running out of time to deal big man Jahlil Okafor before he's committed to the team for the remainder of the 2016-17 campaign.

Continue for updates.

Pelicans in Talks for Okafor

Monday, Feb. 6

Sam Amick of USA Today reported the New Orleans Pelicans are discussing a deal for Okafor, with the 76ers "pushing" for the Pelicans' first-round draft pick. Kevin Smith of RealGM reported that pick protection is the "hold up" with the talks and that the Pelicans want to protect the pick in the lottery, but the 76ers want top-five or top-10 protection.

Marc. J Spears of The Undefeated reported the 76ers could also get center Alexis Ajinca in addition to the draft pick. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical added that the Pelicans tried to include Omer Asik in the deal, but the 76ers passed.

Despite the talks, Jeff Zillgitt of USA Today reported "multiple teams" have interest in Okafor and that the 76ers won't rush into a trade.

Okafor Discusses Trade Rumors

Saturday, Feb. 4

Okafor told reporters trade rumors will be "a part of my life probably for as long as I'm in the NBA" and added the rumors don't really give him any kind of extra incentive in practice or games.

76ers, Bulls Reportedly Discussing Okafor Trade

Friday, Feb. 3

CSN Chicago's Vincent Goodwill reported Thursday the Chicago Bulls are in talks with the 76ers about a potential Okafor trade. Goodwill clarified that any deal is far from imminent, but a line of communication between the two teams remains open.

In another era, Okafor would be a franchise cornerstone for Philadelphia. The center is averaging 11.4 points and 4.8 rebounds in 23.1 minutes a night, and he only turned 21 in December.

Okafor's inability to defend the paint makes him a major liability in today's NBA, though. The Sixers are allowing 6.7 more points per 100 possessions when he's on the floor, according to NBA.com.

Especially with Joel Embiid's emergence, it's looking increasingly like Okafor has little to no future in Philadelphia. He has two more years remaining on his rookie deal before the possibility of his hitting restricted free agency, though, so the Sixers still have plenty of leverage in any trade.

Because of that leverage, it's doubtful the Bulls have the pieces to acquire Okafor. Philadelphia wouldn't want to take on one of Chicago's expensive veterans such as Taj Gibson, Rajon Rondo or Robin Lopez, and the team has few young stars who could offer fair value for Okafor.

Bobby Portis has taken a slight step back in his second season, but trading him would be short-sighted. Aside from Portis, Cristiano Felicio, Jerian Grant and Denzel Valentine would be the likeliest candidates to move.

Since he still has time to mull any offers, Sixers general manager Bryan Colangelo may be hesitant about flipping Okafor—the No. 3 pick in 2015—for 50 cents on the dollar.