25 Of The Most Epic Celebrity Glo Ups
25 Of The Most Epic Celebrity Glo Ups
I mean obviously. First things first. Matthew Lewis. Warner Bros Instagram: mattdavelewis / Via instagram.com He coined the term “Longbottoming” after all. And we can’t ignore Dev Patel. Jason Kempin / Getty Images Rachel Murray / Getty Alfred Enoch is aging like a fine wine. Warner Bros Getty We all know about Josh Peck’s glo-up… Nickelodeon Instagram: shuapeck / Via instagram.com …and Nicholas Hoult had a damn good one also. E4 Getty The lack of fringe really makes a difference. Demi Lovato was always adorable, but she is 100% owning her twenties. Disney Instagram: ddlovato / Via Instagram: @www.instagram.com/ddlovato/?hl=en Liza Weil is getting more fierce every day. Warner Bros ABC Adele’s eyeliner has never been better. YouTube: AdeleVEVO Time / Via instagram.com And speaking of eyeliner, Brendon Urie has come a long way since those emo days. Fueled by Ramen instagram.com Drake has also improved with age. CTV instagram.com And it’s hard to imagine Calvin Harris is even the same person. Getty instagram.com Patrick Dempsey only gets better. Buena Vista Pictures ABC As does Hugh Jackman. Instagram: @thehughjackman instagram.com Zayn went from cute to handsome. Columbia instagram.com And Ryan Gosling definitely peaked a little later in life. Fireworks Pictures Warner Bros Justin Timberlake ditching the ramen hair was the best thing he ever did. Jive Records instagram.com Perrie Edwards was always sweet, and now she’s sassy too. ITV instagram.com Chris Pratt still has the semi-shocked expression going on, but damn he looks good. NBC Walt Disney Nicole Richie went from the to a glam queen. Fox instagram.com John Krasinski… well I mean, words don’t even do justice do they? NBC Paramount Pictures Lea Michele is working it. Fox instagram.com OK sure, he was always cute in that floppy-haired way, but Zac Efron transcended into pure perfection. Disney instagram.com Rihanna went from the super-cute Barbados babe to the bad girl we all know and love. Def Jam MTV / instagram: @badgirlriri / Via instagram.com Even mega-babe Ruby Rose herself had a glo-up. MTV instagram.com And let’s not forget Patrick Stump. Island instagram.com   26 Facts That Will Ruin Your Day    19 Things That Happen Every Summer Without Fail  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.