‘Handshake teacher’ in viral video has message for parents
‘Handshake teacher’ wishes parents would do this one thing every day
Parents 'Handshake teacher' in viral video shares heartfelt message for parents North Carolina teacher Barry White Jr. made headlines recently when it was discovered that he shares something very dear and special with each of his more than 60-plus students: one-of-a-kind handshakes. The idea came to White from — of all places — the basketball court. White, who is a fan of the Cleveland Cavaliers, told NBC Charlotte that he was inspired by Cavaliers forward LeBron James, who is renowned for sharing personalized hand claps, slaps and shakes with his basketball teammates. Text Display Background Enhancements 'Handshake teacher' whose video went viral shares secrets for parents 'Handshake teacher' whose video went viral shares secrets for parents More video Firefighter adopts baby on emergency call — and then adopts her Mom takes pictures while giving birth and the results are beautiful This little boy’s celebration after finishing chemotherapy will make your day Watch formerly conjoined twins celebrate first birthday This ritual has not only cast a spotlight on how White shares an unbreakable bond with all of his students, but also how one teacher goes above and beyond to make his students feel recognized. So when he paid a recent visit to the TODAY studios, we asked him: What’s the one thing you wish parents would do every day before their kids leave for school? According to White, it's all about encouraging your child in a positive way. "I think the most important thing is just encouraging your child, pumping their day up before they get to school," he shared. "That can look like simply 'Hey I know you're going to have a great day,' and 'I'm proud of you.'" Giving kids a positive point of view — even about the little things — is key to starting their day off right. He continued: "Just giving them any type of positive narration, like: 'You woke up before I did — I'm glad you got dressed, I'm glad your books are ready.'" He finished by reiterating: "Just give them something that's positive."  Watch inspiring ‘Handshake Teacher’ give TODAY anchors personalized handshakes  While he was at TODAY, we also asked: What's something parents wish they knew about teachers? The answer came easily to White. "I want you to know how much teachers really value your children. We really feel as though your kids are our kids." Text Display Background Enhancements Watch this teacher give personalized handshakes to each of his students Watch this teacher give personalized handshakes to each of his students

share tweet pin email

North Carolina teacher Barry White Jr. made headlines recently when it was discovered that he shares something very dear and special with each of his more than 60-plus students: one-of-a-kind handshakes.

The idea came to White from — of all places — the basketball court. White, who is a fan of the Cleveland Cavaliers, told NBC Charlotte that he was inspired by Cavaliers forward LeBron James, who is renowned for sharing personalized hand claps, slaps and shakes with his basketball teammates.

This ritual has not only cast a spotlight on how White shares an unbreakable bond with all of his students, but also how one teacher goes above and beyond to make his students feel recognized.

So when he paid a recent visit to the TODAY studios, we asked him: What’s the one thing you wish parents would do every day before their kids leave for school?

According to White, it's all about encouraging your child in a positive way.

"I think the most important thing is just encouraging your child, pumping their day up before they get to school," he shared. "That can look like simply 'Hey I know you're going to have a great day,' and 'I'm proud of you.'"

Giving kids a positive point of view — even about the little things — is key to starting their day off right. He continued:

"Just giving them any type of positive narration, like: 'You woke up before I did — I'm glad you got dressed, I'm glad your books are ready.'" He finished by reiterating: "Just give them something that's positive."

RELATED: Watch inspiring ‘Handshake Teacher’ give TODAY anchors personalized handshakes

While he was at TODAY, we also asked: What's something parents wish they knew about teachers?

The answer came easily to White. "I want you to know how much teachers really value your children. We really feel as though your kids are our kids."