People Can’t Stop Laughing At The Folks In The Background Of This Alyssa Milano Picture
People Can't Stop Laughing At The Folks In The Background Of This Alyssa Milano Picture
This is Alyssa Milano, an actor most known for her roles on television shows like and . Over the weekend, Milano debuted a new look: cornrows. Cornrows are a traditionally black hairstyle, and its origins date back thousands of years. In recent years, the subject of who can rock the ‘do has been debated by people as prominent as Kareem Abdul-Jabba r to the paper of record, The New York Times . On Instagram, people immediately began commenting on the look of the braids. And it seems that a few people did not approve. Some even referred to her by her character’s name as a way of calling her out. Lots and lots of opinions all around. Naturally, the photo was spread across the internet, and an eagle-eyed person looked beyond Milano’s braids and turned their attention to the people in the background of the photo. ::stares in confusion:: Instagram / Via instagram.com Instagram / Via instagram.com Of course, people had a field day, with a ton of people cracking up at the faces of the three people staring at Milano. And many began tagging friends in the image so that they could laugh together. Meanwhile, on Twitter, a user highlighted ~why~ the people may have been staring as intently as they were: The stylist who did Milano’s hair also posted  multiple images of the behind-the-scenes process of the star getting her new ‘do. More of the same jokes continued on that platform, too. @Phil_Lewis_ Some didn’t even recognize that it was Milano. @Phil_Lewis_ Is that Alyssa Milano? IM FUCKING SCREAMING And reaction GIFs were aplenty as people weighed in on the hairstyle. @Phil_Lewis_ Amid the jokes, some called out Milano for cultural appropriation, and she briefly engaged with someone who called her out via a Twitter thread. More conversations of the same sentiment continued in Milano’s own comments section on Instagram, as well. BuzzFeed News has reached out to Alyssa Milano’s publicist for comment.   People Are Freaking Out Because Eminem Came For Donald...    "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend" Star Pens Song For "The Flash"...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.