Carmelo Anthony Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Knicks Star
Carmelo Anthony Trade Rumors: Latest News, Speculation Surrounding Knicks Star
With the New York Knicks ' season in a downward spiral, Carmelo Anthony may be a candidate for trade discussions. Continue for updates. Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James is "pushing" for a trade to land Anthony, according to Frank Isola of the adding he is willing to part with Cavs forward Kevin Love in order to make a deal work. Isola noted Cavaliers management is opposed to moving Love in any capacity. James has instructed to push for Anthony "at any cost," according to Keith Smith of RealGM. After the Cavaliers' game on Monday, James was quick to call the rumor and Isola "trash," per NBA on TNT: LeBron responds to the recent K Love/Melo trade rumors... https://t.co/zmLTovOpxN Joe Vardon Cavaliers were "backing far away from a potential trade for Anthony," though a trade involving the Knicks star isn't completely off the table. On Feb. 2, Marc Stein and Ramona Shelburne of ESPN.com reported the Cavaliers were still interested in trading for Anthony but weren't willing to part with Love in order to acquire the Knicks star. The Knicks spoke with the Cavaliers with the intention of trading Anthony, Adrian Wojnarowski and Chris Mannix of The Vertical reported Jan. 26. Knicks president Phil Jackson is "determined" to find a team that would entice Anthony to relinquish his no-trade clause, per the report. The Knicks reportedly contacted the Cavaliers regarding a possible Anthony-for-Love trade but were "rebuffed," according to Stein and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com on Jan. 25. Anthony told reporters he hasn't told the Knicks which teams he would be willing to move to in a potential trade, adding that he's still not thinking about a move away from New York. "I think it will be more on the front office," Anthony said when asked about potentially leaving New York, per Al Iannazzone of on Jan. 20. He continued: "I have the power, but still I would talk to them. We would be in communication if they feel like they want to go in a different direction, they want to start rebuilding for the future. If they tell me they want to scrap this whole thing, yeah, I have to consider it." "If they feel like my time in New York is over, I guess that's a conversation we should have," Anthony said Jan. 15, per Frank Isola of the . The Boston Celtics told the Knicks they are not interested in acquiring Anthony, per ESPN.com . Wojnarowski and Mannix reported Thursday the Knicks and Celtics had trade talks regarding Anthony. Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio reported the Oklahoma City Thunder like the idea of pairing Anthony with point guard Russell Westbrook , and while a trade is a long shot, the idea "intrigues" Oklahoma City. According to Isola , the Knicks and Los Angeles Clippers are discussing a deal that would send Anthony to the Clippers. A deal would "likely include one or even two players from the group of Jamal Crawford, J.J. Redick or Austin Rivers, who is the son of Clippers head coach Doc Rivers," per Isola, who added that Chris Paul , Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan would not be involved. Wojnarowski and Mannix Jackson met with Anthony and asked him if he wanted to be with the Knicks, according to Shelburne . Anthony "reaffirmed his desire" to remain with the team, per Wojnarowski . "We didn't break bread," Anthony said of the meeting, per Stefan Bondy of the . Shelburne previously reported Jan. 17 that Anthony requested to meet with Knicks officials twice since Charley Rosen 's column for FanRag Sports, which was critical of Anthony. Matt Moore of CBSSports.com noted Rosen is a good friend of Jackson's and has " Per Steve Kyler of Basketball Insiders, citing a source close to Anthony, the Knicks forward is unwilling to waive his no-trade clause to approve any deal the Knicks might seek. Anthony is in the third year of a five-year, $124 million contract with the Knicks that he signed in July 2014. Trade rumors and speculation have followed the 32-year-old for two years. Zach Lowe reported for Grantland in September 2015 that the Knicks were "getting closer" to engaging teams in trade talks for Anthony, though Ken Berger of CBSSports.com disputed the report. Isola reported in February 2016 that the Knicks were involved in preliminary discussions with the Boston Celtics and Cavaliers about a three-team deal with Anthony and Love as the primary pieces. Anthony's offensive performance this season is in line with his career numbers. He's averaging 23 points, 6.1 rebounds and 2.9 assists per game and is shooting 36 percent from three-point range. He's also leading the Knicks with 4.0 win shares, per Basketball-Reference.com . A photo posted by A. Sherrod Blakely (@ sherrodbcsn ) He has lost his cool on the court multiple times this season, however, as evidenced by his three ejections, including one on Dec. 28 for hitting  Atlanta Hawks swingman Thabo Sefolosha in the second quarter of a 102-98 loss. The Knicks are just 22-29 this season. They will build their future around Kristaps Porzingis but are paying veterans like Anthony, Derrick Rose and Joakim Noah over $62 million combined this season, per Spotrac . Unless the Knicks can get out from under those bad contracts early, it will be a long time before they are any kind of threat in the Eastern Conference. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Jonathan Bachman/Getty Images

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

With the New York Knicks' season in a downward spiral, Carmelo Anthony may be a candidate for trade discussions.

Continue for updates.

Anthony Linked to Cavaliers

Monday, Feb. 6

Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James is "pushing" for a trade to land Anthony, according to Frank Isola of the New York Daily News, adding he is willing to part with Cavs forward Kevin Love in order to make a deal work. Isola noted Cavaliers management is opposed to moving Love in any capacity.

James has instructed to push for Anthony "at any cost," according to Keith Smith of RealGM.

After the Cavaliers' game on Monday, James was quick to call the rumor and Isola "trash," per NBA on TNT:

Joe Vardon of Cleveland.com reported on Feb. 3 the Cavaliers were "backing far away from a potential trade for Anthony," though a trade involving the Knicks star isn't completely off the table.

On Feb. 2, Marc Stein and Ramona Shelburne of ESPN.com reported the Cavaliers were still interested in trading for Anthony but weren't willing to part with Love in order to acquire the Knicks star.

The Knicks spoke with the Cavaliers with the intention of trading Anthony, Adrian Wojnarowski and Chris Mannix of The Vertical reported Jan. 26. Knicks president Phil Jackson is "determined" to find a team that would entice Anthony to relinquish his no-trade clause, per the report.

The Knicks reportedly contacted the Cavaliers regarding a possible Anthony-for-Love trade but were "rebuffed," according to Stein and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com on Jan. 25.

Anthony Comments on Future with Knicks

Tuesday, Jan. 31

Anthony told reporters he hasn't told the Knicks which teams he would be willing to move to in a potential trade, adding that he's still not thinking about a move away from New York.

"I think it will be more on the front office," Anthony said when asked about potentially leaving New York, per Al Iannazzone of Newsday on Jan. 20.

He continued: "I have the power, but still I would talk to them. We would be in communication if they feel like they want to go in a different direction, they want to start rebuilding for the future. If they tell me they want to scrap this whole thing, yeah, I have to consider it."

"I think I've proven that," Anthony told reporters Jan. 16 when asked how much he wants to be a Knick. "I don't have to speak on that. I think I've proven that over the years day in and day out."

"If they feel like my time in New York is over, I guess that's a conversation we should have," Anthony said Jan. 15, per Frank Isola of the New York Daily News.

Celtics Reportedly Not in Mix for Anthony

Friday, Jan. 27

The Boston Celtics told the Knicks they are not interested in acquiring Anthony, per ESPN.com.

Wojnarowski and Mannix reported Thursday the Knicks and Celtics had trade talks regarding Anthony.

Thunder Reportedly Intrigued by Potential Anthony Trade

Friday, Jan. 27

Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio reported the Oklahoma City Thunder like the idea of pairing Anthony with point guard Russell Westbrook, and while a trade is a long shot, the idea "intrigues" Oklahoma City.

Details on Possible Anthony-to-Clippers Deal Emerge

Thursday, Jan. 26

According to Isola, the Knicks and Los Angeles Clippers are discussing a deal that would send Anthony to the Clippers. A deal would "likely include one or even two players from the group of Jamal Crawford, J.J. Redick or Austin Rivers, who is the son of Clippers head coach Doc Rivers," per Isola, who added that Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan would not be involved.

Wojnarowski and Mannix first reported the Knicks had contacted the Clippers about a possible trade.

Anthony, Jackson Discuss Future

Wednesday, Jan. 18

Jackson met with Anthony and asked him if he wanted to be with the Knicks, according to Shelburne. Anthony "reaffirmed his desire" to remain with the team, per Wojnarowski.

"We didn't break bread," Anthony said of the meeting, per Stefan Bondy of the New York Daily News.

Shelburne previously reported Jan. 17 that Anthony requested to meet with Knicks officials twice since Charley Rosen's column for FanRag Sports, which was critical of Anthony.

Matt Moore of CBSSports.com noted Rosen is a good friend of Jackson's and has "published several diary entries on the team from the Knicks president of basketball operations."

Anthony Reportedly Won't Approve Trade

Friday, Jan. 13

Per Steve Kyler of Basketball Insiders, citing a source close to Anthony, the Knicks forward is unwilling to waive his no-trade clause to approve any deal the Knicks might seek.

Anthony is in the third year of a five-year, $124 million contract with the Knicks that he signed in July 2014. Trade rumors and speculation have followed the 32-year-old for two years.

Anthony Leads List of Knicks' Highly Paid Veterans

Zach Lowe reported for Grantland in September 2015 that the Knicks were "getting closer" to engaging teams in trade talks for Anthony, though Ken Berger of CBSSports.com disputed the report.

Isola reported in February 2016 that the Knicks were involved in preliminary discussions with the Boston Celtics and Cavaliers about a three-team deal with Anthony and Love as the primary pieces.

Anthony's offensive performance this season is in line with his career numbers. He's averaging 23 points, 6.1 rebounds and 2.9 assists per game and is shooting 36 percent from three-point range. He's also leading the Knicks with 4.0 win shares, per Basketball-Reference.com.

He has lost his cool on the court multiple times this season, however, as evidenced by his three ejections, including one on Dec. 28 for hitting Atlanta Hawks swingman Thabo Sefolosha in the second quarter of a 102-98 loss.

The Knicks are just 22-29 this season. They will build their future around Kristaps Porzingis but are paying veterans like Anthony, Derrick Rose and Joakim Noah over $62 million combined this season, per Spotrac.

Unless the Knicks can get out from under those bad contracts early, it will be a long time before they are any kind of threat in the Eastern Conference.