Super Bowl: The veiled political statement in Lady Gaga's performance



Super Bowl: The veiled political statement in Lady Gaga's performance

Updated

When Lady Gaga was announced as the headline performer of this year's Super Bowl halftime show, it was widely expected — given the tumultuous political climate in the US — that she would use her set to make some sort of political statement.

She campaigned for Hillary Clinton during last year's election campaign, put in an appearance at January's Women's March in opposition to the agenda and rhetoric of President Donald Trump, and has spoken out in support of sexual assault survivors and the advancement of LGBTI rights.

So many assumed it was a case of how, not if, she would make that statement.

But what viewers got, amid the glitz and glamour and before the New England Patriots came back from the dead to beat the Atlanta Falcons, were a series of veiled messages that made a subversive statement in a quiet way.

She opened the set with God Bless America — followed by Woody Guthrie's classic protest song, This Land Is Your Land, which demonstrators have been singing in the street during protests against Mr Trump's travel ban.

Vanity Fair reported that Lady Gaga left out some of the angrier and more inflammatory verses in her rendition of Guthrie's song.

The original version of the song includes the lyrics: "There was a big high wall there that tried to stop me."

Lady Gaga also performed a bevy of hits, including Poker Face, The Edge of Glory and Bad Romance in a high-powered 13-minute set that included her jumping off both the roof and the stage.

Born This Way was also on the bill — a song that has become somewhat of an anthem for the LGBTI community.

The lyrics read: "No matter gay, straight or bi/Lesbian, transgendered life/I'm on the right track baby/I was born to survive."

'It's a unifying day for people'

When questioned last week as to whether her performance would make a political statement, Lady Gaga simply said she would put forward a message of inclusion.

"I believe in the spirit of equality and the spirit of this country as one of love, and compassion, and kindness," she told reporters.

"My performance will uphold those philosophies.

"I don't know if it will succeed in unifying America. You'll have to ask America when it's over."

That comment came in response to remarks from NFL senior vice president of programming Mark Quenzel, who said Lady Gaga had not been given specific instructions to rein in any political message.

"We have no discussions about her or with her that have to do with the election, or the president," he said.

"What we say to every artist, very clearly, and they all buy in — the Super Bowl halftime is the biggest musical event of the year, and it's also a communal event for fans, the Super Bowl itself.

"People get together as families, as friends. It's a unifying day for people built around the biggest sporting event in the world."

But not all performances have stuck to that idea — last year's performance by Beyonce referenced the Black Lives Matter movement, Malcolm X and the Black Panthers.

Topics: arts-and-entertainment, music, dance-music, sport, american-football, united-states

First posted