First-Ever Overtime Super Bowl Attracts 111.3 Million TV Viewers
First-Ever Overtime Super Bowl Attracts 111.3 Million TV Viewers
Biography Joe Flint @JBFlint Joe.Flint@WSJ.com  Tom Brady set a record for the winningest quarterback in Super Bowl history, but the New England Patriots’ amazing comeback and overtime victory against the Atlanta Falcons wasn’t enough to set record ratings. The game drew an average TV audience of 111.32 million on Fox, according to preliminary figures from Nielsen, making it the fifth most-watched, just behind Super Bowl XLVI in 2012 when the Giants beat the Patriots. The most-watched Super Bowl remains the Patriots’ win over the Seattle Seahawks in 2015, which averaged 114.4 million viewers and also went down to the wire. This year’s game also fell slightly short of last year’s contest between the Denver Broncos and Carolina Panthers, which drew 111.9 million viewers. Beyond the flagship Fox network, the game drew an additional 650,000 viewers on the Spanish-language service Fox Deportes, while 1.72 million watched it online via Fox Sports Go. Though it didn’t set ratings records, the game is still a big win for Fox and the advertisers who paid about $5 million for 30 seconds of commercial time. Fox was able to reap additional advertising dollars when the game went into overtime. If the Falcons had continued pummeling the Patriots in the second half after entering halftime up 21-3, the audience likely would have fallen dramatically. More on Super Bowl LI  Super Bowl Ads Stir Up Modest Heat   Intel Basks in Afterglow of Halftime Show   Patriots Storm Back to Stun Falcons in Super Bowl   Super Bowl Ads Split Between Humor and Unity   84 Lumber Campaign Shows Border Wall With a Big Door   Super Bowl Commercials 2017: Watch and vote for the best ads  The Patriots comeback also likely will bode well for the premiere of Fox’s “24: Legacy,” a counterterrorism drama that aired following the game. Fox is a unit of  21st Century Fox which shares common ownership with Wall Street Journal parent  News Corp  Joe Flint at joe.flint@wsj.com      Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print   A Blueprint for Digital Identity  Today’s increasingly digital economy still depends on physical records to establish identity, and that’s creating numerous problems. By paving the way for a global digital identity system, financial services firms stand to reap big rewards.  Please note: The Wall Street Journal News Department was not involved in the creation of the content above. Most Popular Videos   Inside the Highest-Priced Home in the U.S.    Israel Votes to Legalize Settlements    Super Bowl Ad: Snickers    Super Bowl Ad: Coke    Super Bowl Ad: Mercedes  Most Popular Articles      Few Recall Gorsuch’s Volunteer Work at Harvard        Opinion: Sharp Left Turn Ahead—Beware        Opposition Mounts for Education Nominee Betsy DeVos        Gorsuch’s Personality Could Shift Supreme Court’s Dynamic        The Biggest Choke in History?

Tom Brady of the New England Patriots holds the Vince Lombardi Trophy after defeating the Atlanta Falcons 34-28 in overtime during Super Bowl 51. Photo: Agence France-Presse/Getty Image

Tom Brady set a record for the winningest quarterback in Super Bowl history, but the New England Patriots’ amazing comeback and overtime victory against the Atlanta Falcons wasn’t enough to set record ratings.

The game drew an average TV audience of 111.32 million on Fox, according to preliminary figures from Nielsen, making it the fifth most-watched, just behind Super Bowl XLVI in 2012 when the Giants beat the Patriots.

The most-watched Super Bowl remains the Patriots’ win over the Seattle Seahawks in 2015, which averaged 114.4 million viewers and also went down to the wire.

This year’s game also fell slightly short of last year’s contest between the Denver Broncos and Carolina Panthers, which drew 111.9 million viewers.

Beyond the flagship Fox network, the game drew an additional 650,000 viewers on the Spanish-language service Fox Deportes, while 1.72 million watched it online via Fox Sports Go.

Sunday’s game was the fifth most-watched Super Bowl, despite being the first ever with an overtime finish.

Though it didn’t set ratings records, the game is still a big win for Fox and the advertisers who paid about $5 million for 30 seconds of commercial time. Fox was able to reap additional advertising dollars when the game went into overtime.

If the Falcons had continued pummeling the Patriots in the second half after entering halftime up 21-3, the audience likely would have fallen dramatically.

The Patriots comeback also likely will bode well for the premiere of Fox’s “24: Legacy,” a counterterrorism drama that aired following the game.

Fox is a unit of 21st Century Fox, which shares common ownership with Wall Street Journal parent News Corp.

Write to Joe Flint at joe.flint@wsj.com