How House and Senate Republicans have learned to deal with President Trump, in 4 simple reactions

President Trump and traditional congressional Republicans were never going to agree on everything because, well, Trump is not a traditional Republican. But almost daily, Trump says or does or tweets something that stirs controversy in traditional GOP circles, forcing lawmakers to decide whether to speak out or stay silent. Amid the chaos, a few patterns have emerged: Republicans are often openly critical of Trump when he separates himself from them on issues of national security, but they're willing to give him much more leeway on the unconventional way he runs his White House or, say, his Twitter account. It's still early in this relationship, but these patterns are worth analyzing. Republicans in Congress are genuinely excited about controlling Washington for the first time in a decade, says GOP strategist Alex Conant. But they're going to need a working relationship with the president — and vice versa — if they want to accomplish changes to health care or taxes. Trump has put Republicans on notice that this is a working relationship that can be quite fragile. He has already gone out of his way to criticize two of his chief GOP antagonists in the Senate , John McCain (Ariz.) and Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.): The joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong - they are sadly weak on immigration. The two... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017 ...Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017 With that in mind, let's categorize the ways congressional Republicans are reacting to Trump's various controversies. They are openly critical of Trump’s … : “The Russians annexed Crimea, invaded Ukraine, and messed around in our elections,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told CNN , in reaction to Trump appearing to brush off allegations that Russian President Vladimir Putin has punished his political opponents in an interview that aired Sunday with Fox News's Bill O'Reilly. “No, I don't think there is any equivalency between the way the Russians conduct themselves and the way the United States does.” When has a Democratic political activists been poisoned by the GOP, or vice versa? We are not the same as #Putin . MR — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) February 5, 2017 : Republicans didn't necessarily disagree with the intent of the executive order temporarily banning entry into the United States for citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries and refugees from around the world, but they were incredibly frustrated with its rollout. “This executive action has some unintended consequences that were not well thought out,” said Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.).   (Some GOP lawmakers opposed the ban more so because it was coming from the president and not from Congress. Here's Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) in a statement: “Like Pres. Obama's executive actions on immigration, Pres. Trump's executive order overreaches and undermines our constitutional system.”) Top Republican senators tsk-tsked Trump for tweets he sent this weekend about a federal judge in Seattle who paused his travel ban. “I think it's best to avoid criticizing judges individually,” McConnell told CNN. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) released a more subdued statement: “This president is hardly the first one to express frustration with the judicial branch.” : “There's no evidence that it occurred in such a significant number that would have changed the presidential election,” McConnell told CNN on Sunday , in response to Trump's declaration the White House will investigate it. “And I don't think we ought to spend any federal money investigating that.”   Republicans are obliquely critical of Trump on … : Republicans didn't say anything directly about how Trump handled the call — in which Trump reportedly told Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull “this was the worst call by far" — but they try to do damage control. Here's the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Bob Corker (R-Tenn.): Just got off the phone with Ambassador @JoeHockey . We discussed the important and long-lasting alliance between our two countries. — Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) February 2, 2017 Traditional Republican orthodoxy is strongly supportive of free trade, including the decades-long free-trade agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, as the Senate GOP's No. 2, John Cornyn (Tex.), hints at occasionally in his tweets. Mexico has taken advantage of the U.S. for long enough. Massive trade deficits & little help on the very weak border must change, NOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 27, 2017 One Tiny Widget's Dizzying Journey Shows Just How Critical Nafta Has Become https://t.co/xVSVflsb84 — JohnCornyn (@JohnCornyn) February 5, 2017 Republicans are actively staying out of … : “That’s executive-branch business,” Cornyn said . Yes, Arnold Schwarzenegger did a really bad job as Governor of California and even worse on the Apprentice...but at least he tried hard! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 3, 2017 “I think we're going to see unconventional activities like tweets and things like that, and I think that's just something we're all going to have to get used to,” Ryan told reporters in January. Republicans are thrilled with Trump’s … : It helps that Neil Gorsuch is arguably a judge any traditional Republican would have nominated. “The president made an outstanding choice,” gushed McConnell in a video released minutes after Trump announced his pick. WATCH → Neil Gorsuch will be a great #SCOTUS Justice. I applaud @POTUS for his excellent pick to our nation's highest court. pic.twitter.com/jCkto6kAs1 — Leader McConnell (@SenateMajLdr) February 1, 2017



Donald Trump, who was president-elect at the time, and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) after the election. (Joshua Roberts/Reuters)

President Trump and traditional congressional Republicans were never going to agree on everything because, well, Trump is not a traditional Republican.

But almost daily, Trump says or does or tweets something that stirs controversy in traditional GOP circles, forcing lawmakers to decide whether to speak out or stay silent. Amid the chaos, a few patterns have emerged: Republicans are often openly critical of Trump when he separates himself from them on issues of national security, but they're willing to give him much more leeway on the unconventional way he runs his White House or, say, his Twitter account.

It's still early in this relationship, but these patterns are worth analyzing. Republicans in Congress are genuinely excited about controlling Washington for the first time in a decade, says GOP strategist Alex Conant. But they're going to need a working relationship with the president — and vice versa — if they want to accomplish changes to health care or taxes.

Trump has put Republicans on notice that this is a working relationship that can be quite fragile. He has already gone out of his way to criticize two of his chief GOP antagonists in the Senate, John McCain (Ariz.) and Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.):

The joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong - they are sadly weak on immigration. The two... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017

...Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017

With that in mind, let's categorize the ways congressional Republicans are reacting to Trump's various controversies.

They are openly critical of Trump’s …

… deference for Russia: “The Russians annexed Crimea, invaded Ukraine, and messed around in our elections,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told CNN, in reaction to Trump appearing to brush off allegations that Russian President Vladimir Putin has punished his political opponents in an interview that aired Sunday with Fox News's Bill O'Reilly. “No, I don't think there is any equivalency between the way the Russians conduct themselves and the way the United States does.”

When has a Democratic political activists been poisoned by the GOP, or vice versa? We are not the same as #Putin. MR — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) February 5, 2017

… travel ban executive order: Republicans didn't necessarily disagree with the intent of the executive order temporarily banning entry into the United States for citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries and refugees from around the world, but they were incredibly frustrated with its rollout.

“This executive action has some unintended consequences that were not well thought out,” said Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.).

[Where Republicans stand on President Trump's controversial travel ban]

(Some GOP lawmakers opposed the ban more so because it was coming from the president and not from Congress. Here's Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) in a statement: “Like Pres. Obama's executive actions on immigration, Pres. Trump's executive order overreaches and undermines our constitutional system.”)

… lashing out at a judge: Top Republican senators tsk-tsked Trump for tweets he sent this weekend about a federal judge in Seattle who paused his travel ban. “I think it's best to avoid criticizing judges individually,” McConnell told CNN.

House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) released a more subdued statement: “This president is hardly the first one to express frustration with the judicial branch.”

… making unsubstantiated claims about widespread voter fraud: “There's no evidence that it occurred in such a significant number that would have changed the presidential election,” McConnell told CNN on Sunday, in response to Trump's declaration the White House will investigate it. “And I don't think we ought to spend any federal money investigating that.”

[Republicans in Congress don't want anything to do with Trump's voter fraud probe]

Republicans are obliquely critical of Trump on …

… his antagonistic call with Australia's prime minister: Republicans didn't say anything directly about how Trump handled the call — in which Trump reportedly told Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull “this was the worst call by far" — but they did try to do damage control.

Here's the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Bob Corker (R-Tenn.):

Just got off the phone with Ambassador @JoeHockey. We discussed the important and long-lasting alliance between our two countries. — Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) February 2, 2017

… his wariness of NAFTA: Traditional Republican orthodoxy is strongly supportive of free trade, including the decades-long free-trade agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, as the Senate GOP's No. 2, John Cornyn (Tex.), hints at occasionally in his tweets.

Mexico has taken advantage of the U.S. for long enough. Massive trade deficits & little help on the very weak border must change, NOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 27, 2017

One Tiny Widget's Dizzying Journey Shows Just How Critical Nafta Has Become https://t.co/xVSVflsb84 — JohnCornyn (@JohnCornyn) February 5, 2017

Republicans are actively staying out of …

… his White House organization, like his decision to invite political adviser Stephen K. Bannon to all National Security Committee meetings: “That’s executive-branch business,” Cornyn said.

… his off-message tweeting:

Yes, Arnold Schwarzenegger did a really bad job as Governor of California and even worse on the Apprentice...but at least he tried hard! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 3, 2017

“I think we're going to see unconventional activities like tweets and things like that, and I think that's just something we're all going to have to get used to,” Ryan told reporters in January.

Republicans are thrilled with Trump’s …

… nomination of a conservative judge for the Supreme Court: It helps that Neil Gorsuch is arguably a judge any traditional Republican would have nominated. “The president made an outstanding choice,” gushed McConnell in a video released minutes after Trump announced his pick.