Papua New Guinea ombudsman commission fights changes to election fees



Papua New Guinea ombudsman commission fights changes to election fees

Posted

Papua New Guinea's ombudsman commission is challenging moves by the country's Government to make it more expensive to stand for election and challenge the result.

The commission, which is tasked with guarding against abuses of power, has filed a Supreme Court reference asking if the increase breaches PNG's constitution and the law on elections.

The PNG Government is trying to increase the election nomination fee from 1,000 to 10,000 kina ($400-4,000) and increase the amount of money required as security for challenging an election result from 5,000 to 20,000 kina ($2,000-8,000).

The ombudsman commission has asked the Supreme Court to clarify whether the changes — which are before Parliament — are reasonably justifiable and do not overly qualify the right of people to stand for public office.

"This is not the first time that the ombudsman commission has invoked its powers under Section 19 of the constitution on the increase of nomination fees," the Acting Chief Ombudsman Michael Dick said in a statement.

"It did so in 1982, when Parliament increased the fee from 100 to 1,000 kina," he said.

"In that case, the Supreme Court found the amendments unconstitutional."

Mr Dick noted another challenge to a fee increase in 1992 failed.

PNG's Prime Minister Peter O'Neill has justified the fee increase by saying it will help pay for the high cost of elections and will stop people from standing unless they are serious contenders.

But civil society organisations have said the changes are undemocratic.

The Government is trying to finalise the fee increases before Parliament is dissolved in April for the national elections.

The ombudsman commission is asking the Supreme Court to restrain Parliament from deliberating on the fee increase until the court has considered its application.

Topics: federal-elections, federal-government, papua-new-guinea, pacific, asia