This Flight Attendant Saved A Teenage Girl From Being Trafficked After Seeing A Secret Note
This Flight Attendant Saved A Teenage Girl From Being Trafficked After Seeing A Secret Note
This Flight Attendant Saved A Teenage Girl From Being Trafficked After Seeing A Secret Note Of drugs, free sex, and attaining free slaves - human trafficking is a lot of things to a lot of different people. This serious crime and a grave violation of human rights has now become a thriving vice and is prevailing in several parts of the world, emerging as one of the major concerns for committees around the world. But sometimes, these evils get caught, and unexpectedly, a life is saved. This flight attendant rescued a teenage girl from being trafficked after she spotted the girl looking “dishevelled” on a plane accompanied by a well-dressed man. Sheila Frederick, 49, was working on an Alaska Airlines flight from Seattle to San Francisco when she noticed the girl, who looked around 14 or 15 years old, and immediately knew something was wrong, according to 10 News. With all the bad press the airlines get there's this: Flight attendant saves girl from #humantrafficking  https://t.co/qmHQW3N7sW “Something in the back of my mind said something was not right. He was well-dressed. That’s what got me because I thought why is he well-dressed and she is looking all dishevelled and out of sorts?” Ms Frederick told the programme. When the girl tried talking to other passengers who were sitting by her side, the man who was accompanying her got defensive and didn't let her speak. Sheila then left a note for her in the plane's toilet, to which she responded as 'I need help'. The flight attendant informed pilots who were then able to communicate the message to police in San Francisco, and the man was arrested when the flight landed.

Of drugs, free sex, and attaining free slaves - human trafficking is a lot of things to a lot of different people.

This serious crime and a grave violation of human rights has now become a thriving vice and is prevailing in several parts of the world, emerging as one of the major concerns for committees around the world.

But sometimes, these evils get caught, and unexpectedly, a life is saved.

wtsp

This flight attendant rescued a teenage girl from being trafficked after she spotted the girl looking “dishevelled” on a plane accompanied by a well-dressed man.

Sheila Frederick, 49, was working on an Alaska Airlines flight from Seattle to San Francisco when she noticed the girl, who looked around 14 or 15 years old, and immediately knew something was wrong, according to 10 News.

With all the bad press the airlines get there's this:

Flight attendant saves girl from #humantrafficking https://t.co/qmHQW3N7sW — Voodoomama❄ (@DunnBAD) February 6, 2017

“Something in the back of my mind said something was not right. He was well-dressed. That’s what got me because I thought why is he well-dressed and she is looking all dishevelled and out of sorts?” Ms Frederick told the programme.

When the girl tried talking to other passengers who were sitting by her side, the man who was accompanying her got defensive and didn't let her speak.

Sheila then left a note for her in the plane's toilet, to which she responded as 'I need help'.

The flight attendant informed pilots who were then able to communicate the message to police in San Francisco, and the man was arrested when the flight landed.