Porn site posts rape joke on Facebook, and people are enraged
Porn site posts rape joke on Facebook, and people are enraged
A Filipino porn site has left netizens enraged after it posted an offensive "joke" on Facebook saying "it wouldn't be rape if you enjoy it." The site, RBreezy, posted the picture, which received over 1.4k likes, on its Facebook page on Saturday. The photo caption says LOL Image:  End rape culture ph/facebook It also said "LOL" in its photo caption and to "tag your rapist friends." SEE ALSO: These flyers perfectly shut down street harassment and unwanted catcalling Its Facebook page has since been suspended, but screenshots of its offensive post have been captured on various other pages. "RBreezy, if this is meant to be a joke, it isn't funny. Stop making rape trivial or funny," said a post by Facebook group End Rape Culture PH , which has since been shared almost 5,000 times. "Getting raped is not a joke. Living in a humiliated state is not a joke. Trying to take a bath more than four times is not a joke," said a Filipino netizen on Facebook. "What are you trying to say? That you should enjoy the physical, emotional and mental pain it brings? Don't you dare say it's a joke. You're a joke," another netizen commented. Meanwhile, the issue is stirring up an older petition calling for RBreezy to be taken down. The petition is getting recirculated, and has reached almost 10,000 signatures. Yet RBreezy appears to be unapologetic about the matter. The site had deleted its post and later released a statement saying that it had the right to "comment something foul," according to the . RBreezy says here that it had the right to "comment something foul" Image:  the inquirer It's already created another new Facebook page, less than 24 hours after its old one was removed. Many have commented on the site's new page, calling for it to be taken down too. RBreezy is no stranger to controversy, having been temporarily blocked by Facebook in the past. The site's official Instagram and Twitter page are still up and running. tatlong facebook accounts ko ang ban, damay yung tatlong facebook page ko. (800k, backup and clothing page) so hindi ako makakapag reply sa any messages nyo or inquiries sa facebook. 3 days ang pinaka malapit na magamit ko ang fb ko.  Etong ig and twitter ko ang magiging active for now. Na R-BREEZY ako. Ang higpit na sobra ng fb. A photo posted by RBREEZY (@rbreezyofficial) on Rape is one of the most prevalent forms of violence against women in the Philippines, according to the Philippine Commission on Women . The Centre of Women's Resources also says that the number of recorded rape cases in the country increased by 92 percent in recent years — from over 5,000 in 2010 to almost 10,000 in 2014. has reached out to RBreezy for comment. BONUS: Are Male Athletes More Likely to Rape?

A Filipino porn site has left netizens enraged after it posted an offensive "joke" on Facebook saying "it wouldn't be rape if you enjoy it."

The site, RBreezy, posted the picture, which received over 1.4k likes, on its Facebook page on Saturday.

The photo caption says LOL Image: End rape culture ph/facebook

It also said "LOL" in its photo caption and to "tag your rapist friends."

SEE ALSO: These flyers perfectly shut down street harassment and unwanted catcalling

Its Facebook page has since been suspended, but screenshots of its offensive post have been captured on various other pages.

"RBreezy, if this is meant to be a joke, it isn't funny. Stop making rape trivial or funny," said a post by Facebook group End Rape Culture PH, which has since been shared almost 5,000 times.

"Getting raped is not a joke. Living in a humiliated state is not a joke. Trying to take a bath more than four times is not a joke," said a Filipino netizen on Facebook.

"What are you trying to say? That you should enjoy the physical, emotional and mental pain it brings? Don't you dare say it's a joke. You're a joke," another netizen commented.

Meanwhile, the issue is stirring up an older petition calling for RBreezy to be taken down. The petition is getting recirculated, and has reached almost 10,000 signatures.

Yet RBreezy appears to be unapologetic about the matter.

The site had deleted its post and later released a statement saying that it had the right to "comment something foul," according to the Inquirer.

RBreezy says here that it had the right to "comment something foul" Image: the inquirer

It's already created another new Facebook page, less than 24 hours after its old one was removed.

Many have commented on the site's new page, calling for it to be taken down too.

RBreezy is no stranger to controversy, having been temporarily blocked by Facebook in the past.

The site's official Instagram and Twitter page are still up and running.

Rape is one of the most prevalent forms of violence against women in the Philippines, according to the Philippine Commission on Women.

The Centre of Women's Resources also says that the number of recorded rape cases in the country increased by 92 percent in recent years — from over 5,000 in 2010 to almost 10,000 in 2014.

Mashable has reached out to RBreezy for comment.