Sweet short film about a couple is actually a hearing test in disguise
Sweet short film about a couple is actually a hearing test in disguise
Hearing loss affects many of us, but less people talk about it. A short film, , wants to open up that conversation. The film has two very different outcomes, that depend entirely on the viewer's hearing ability. SEE ALSO: Woman turns babies' medical helmets into adorable works of art The film follows a young couple, growing older together. For people with good hearing it would be clear at the end of the film that they are very much in love. For those that have difficulty hearing, the film's audio techniques, choreographed performances and  clever editing would make it appear that the couple's relationship is deteriorating as the film goes on. Lips are covered during some conversations, making them difficult to read. Ambient sounds mask loving discussions between the couple. It was all created by Cochlear, an Australian company which specialises in hearing implants. The short film is being shown before screenings of in cinemas. Ultimately, the company wants to raise awareness for hearing loss and remind people that they have treatment options. "When you take away the ability to lip read and background noise, it becomes very difficult for people with hearing loss to follow the conversation," Emma Ramsay, Senior Audiologist at Cochlear, said in a statement. Pretty clever, hey. You can watch it in full here . BONUS: This new at-home fertility test lets you zoom in on your sperm

Hearing loss affects many of us, but less people talk about it.

A short film, Does Love Last Forever, wants to open up that conversation. The film has two very different outcomes, that depend entirely on the viewer's hearing ability.

The film follows a young couple, growing older together. For people with good hearing it would be clear at the end of the film that they are very much in love.

For those that have difficulty hearing, the film's audio techniques, choreographed performances and clever editing would make it appear that the couple's relationship is deteriorating as the film goes on.

Lips are covered during some conversations, making them difficult to read. Ambient sounds mask loving discussions between the couple.

It was all created by Cochlear, an Australian company which specialises in hearing implants. The short film is being shown before screenings of Lion in cinemas.

Ultimately, the company wants to raise awareness for hearing loss and remind people that they have treatment options.

"When you take away the ability to lip read and background noise, it becomes very difficult for people with hearing loss to follow the conversation," Emma Ramsay, Senior Audiologist at Cochlear, said in a statement.

Pretty clever, hey. You can watch it in full here.