2017: New year, same weird stuff in Parliament House



2017: New year, same weird stuff in Parliament House

Posted

"How do you solve a problem like Cory?" Such was the tune echoing through the corridors of power, with less singing and fewer Germans than the musical.

It was day one of the 2017 parliamentary year, and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull had already found himself in quite the pickle.

He welcomed his "broad church" of MPs and senators back to Canberra, as a trickle of rain hit the windows of the Coalition party room.

"It's great to be back, we've got a lot of work to do," Mr Turnbull bellowed.

But the Coalition choir was missing one of its baritones — the self-proclaimed "lone wolf" from Adelaide's leafy eastern suburbs, Cory Bernardi.

A man who generally has more front than Myers, Senator Bernardi did not face his colleagues before he sauntered into the Senate at 12:30pm to announce he would be leaving their ranks.

"In short, the body politic is failing the people of Australia. It is clear that we need to find a better way," he declared, lobbing a grenade at his Liberal frenemies and those across the aisle.

Quick, a distraction is required. But what could the Government do?

Announce fast-tracking plans to scrap the Life Gold Pass for parliamentary travel? Backtrack on a plan to snap up land for the army in Queensland? How about both?

Slipping in through a side entrance, one of 2016's chief protagonists returned to Capital Hill — this time as a member of the public.

Former senator Rod Culleton looked on from the public gallery, barred from taking his red leather seat due to bankruptcy and a former criminal conviction the High Court frowned upon.

President of the Senate Stephen Parry announced it was up to the Government to decide if they would demand he repay his parliamentary salary, seeing as he should never have been there to begin with.

True to form, he played cat and mouse, with the media waiting to ask him how life was on the outside. Then everyone gave up and left him to his flat white.

All of this before Question Time, the usual focus of the parliamentary day.

It seems all involved were tuckered out — or simply realised the story was about one senator taking his ball and going home.

Looking for some sort of divine intervention, politicians had earlier poured into a nearby Catholic cathedral.

"Pray. Pray hard," Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce offered as advice for Senator Bernardi.

It is more likely a mantra many in Parliament House may take up in 2017.

Topics: government-and-politics, federal-government, parliament, australia