NEVER skip breakfast to make up for a night's indulgence
Why you must NEVER skip breakfast to make up for last night's gorging


The festive season is over, and we've made it through the Super Bowl - also known as a thinly-veiled excuse to gorge on chicken wings.

Now, well into 2017, many start to feel the urgency to kick-start a new healthy eating plan.

Some may be aiming to lose weight or tone up. Some may want to fit back into their favorite dress.

Either way, there are some key rules you should follow - and pitfalls you should avoid - to maintain your fresh start.

An indulgence is an indulgence, and no amount of next-day fasting will off-set that, Lamb says

Chief among them: a binge is a binge, and no amount of next-day fasting will off-set that.

If you want to re-stabilize your health and figure, you need to instill some robust dietary and fitness habits that could, in theory, last a lifetime - not a morning.

Here, nutritional therapist Natalie Lamb explains her top five tips to help you achieve your weight loss goals in a healthy way.

1. PROTEIN STAVES OFF HUNGER PANGS

The biggest problem when you start to diet is breaking your snacking habit.

Over the holidays, as we indulge in cheat day after cheat day, we get used to consuming more calories.

As a result, when you start shrinking your meals down to a healthy, less-indulgent portion, you may feel the urge to nibble between meals.

The best way to avoid that is to focus on the contents of your meals, rather than the size, Lamb says.

Studies have shown that protein triggers the release of hormones that tell our brain we're full

'Consume a good quality protein source with each meal or snack to help sustain fullness for longer,' she advises.

Indeed, numerous studies have shown that protein triggers the release of 'satiety hormones' - i.e.: the hormones that tell our brain that our stomach is full.

Therefore, a good helping of chicken, beans, egg, or broccoli can help you stave off those hunger pangs.

Lamb adds that Omega 3 fats such as oily fish, nuts and seeds can also help to increase satiety, reduce inflammation and burn off stored body fat.

2. VEG CAN GIVE YOU THE CANDY RUSH YOU CRAVE

When we're dehydrated or hungry, our brain visualizes sugar and carbs - quick fixes to the solution.

However, these will do nothing to help sustain your blood sugar.

In fact, vegetables contain all the ingredients you need to give you that kick.

'Swap processed foods high in sugar or refined carbs for real foods such as fibrous colorful vegetables,' Lamb explains.

'It will provide you with more energizing nutrients and less of a sugar dip mid-afternoon.'

That could include arugula, Brussels sprouts, chicory, eggplant, fennel, artichoke hearts, mushroom, lettuce, zucchini, peppers and sauerkraut.

Unlike processed carbs like white bread or sugar-laden foods like chocolate, fiber does not use insulin to be digested.

As a result, a diet rich in fiber can help stabilize your blood sugar levels, dampening your constant cravings for a sweet treat.

3. NEVER SKIP A MEAL TO MAKE UP FOR GORGING

Millions of people will have woken up today - the day after the Super Bowl - reeling from beer and chicken wings.

In a desperate post-indulgence urge to get back on track, you may think skipping breakfast is a good idea.

Wrong, according to Lamb.

'Stick to a regular eating routine so your body can regulate hunger hormones and mood fluctuations,' she insists.

A study by Harvard University last year found women who skipped breakfast ran a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes and gaining weight.

The reason largely boiled down to insulin levels.

Breakfast is (literally) meant to break the fast you had overnight, thereby regulating insulin levels and keeping your blood sugar levels stable.

If you miss that meal, your hormones are likely to go haywire, causing crankiness, hunger pangs, and cravings for caffeine and sugar.

You will also through your metabolism out of sync if you habitually switch up your meal times from day to day.

On the flip side, Lamb warns, you do need to be aware of when you need food, and when enough is enough.

'It's important to keep focused and calm when eating to help improve digestion and ensure you notice when you're full!'

4. VISUALIZE YOUR FUTURE

Sticking to a new regime is hard, no matter how much or little you have strayed from standard healthy eating habits.

Motivation is paramount.

'Focus on your end goal,' Lamb says.

'Remember healthy weight loss is a gradual long term lifestyle shift, not a race.

'Let your friends and family know too so they can support you and encourage you to stay on track, or even join you in cooking and enjoying healthy meals together.'

5. HYDRATION, HYDRATION, HYDRATION

Often, when your body is thirsty, you crave sugar for a boost.

That makes Coca Cola, orange juice, and La-Croix look tantalizing.

Really, your body just needs a bit of hydration.

'Try to drink plenty of water,' Lamb says.

'Aim for 6-8 glasses of water every day.

'If you're feeling bored of water, try mixing it up with a slice of fruit or cucumber, or herbal teas such as peppermint or green tea.'

When your body is thirsty, you crave sugar for a boost. Really, you just need water

...AND IF YOU NEED SOME HELP

Lamb endorses a fiber supplement as a way to help people get onto the dieting wagon.

The product, Lepicol Lighter, comes as a powder that you dissolve in water and drink before meal times.

It contains glucomannan, a low-calorie plant-based dietary fiber often used to thicken pasta. It has been shown to reduce levels of the hunger hormone grehlin.

The second main ingredient is chromium, naturally found in yeast and potatoes, which contributes to the maintenance of normal blood glucose levels.

Finally, it contains seven strains of live bacteria to help keep your digestive system healthy.

According to Lamb, the product has been shown to aid weight loss, reduce body mass index and blood fat levels, while balancing blood sugar levels.

It is available to purchase online in the UK via the Lepicol website. Thirty sachets cost $17.99.