ISI Mastermind Who Caused Kanpur Derailment That Killed 150 People Arrested!
ISI Mastermind Who Caused Kanpur Derailment That Killed 150 People Arrested!
ISI Mastermind Who Caused Kanpur Derailment That Killed 150 People Arrested! In a significant development in the probe of Kanpur train accident which killed at least 150 people in November 2016, the alleged key suspect has been nabbed. The accused, Samshul Hoda along with three others was arrested from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, by Nepal police. He was reportedly being deported from Dubai. Confirming his arrest Deputy Inspector General of Police Pashupati Upadhyaya said they will work closely with the Indian investigators in the case. "Nepal Police will also work in close coordination with the Indian Police for Hoda's alleged involvement in criminal activities in India." An NIA team which is probing the incident is set to reach Kathmandu. The accused, Hoda is said to be known to the intelligence agencies for running a fake Indian currency racket linking Pakistan and Dubai through Nepal. His arrest is a vindication of the apprehensions first raised by Bihar police and later railway authorities that ISI could be involved in a series of mishaps involving trains in India.

In a significant development in the probe of Kanpur train accident which killed at least 150 people in November 2016, the alleged key suspect has been nabbed.

PTI

The accused, Samshul Hoda along with three others was arrested from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, by Nepal police. He was reportedly being deported from Dubai.

Confirming his arrest Deputy Inspector General of Police Pashupati Upadhyaya said they will work closely with the Indian investigators in the case.

"Nepal Police will also work in close coordination with the Indian Police for Hoda's alleged involvement in criminal activities in India."

An NIA team which is probing the incident is set to reach Kathmandu.

The accused, Hoda is said to be known to the intelligence agencies for running a fake Indian currency racket linking Pakistan and Dubai through Nepal.

PTI

His arrest is a vindication of the apprehensions first raised by Bihar police and later railway authorities that ISI could be involved in a series of mishaps involving trains in India.