Senior Labour female MPs will boycott if Donald Trump addresses Houses of Parliament
Senior Labour female MPs will boycott if Donald Trump addresses Houses of Parliament
A group of Labour’s most senior female MPs have vowed to boycott Donald Trump’s speech if he is invited to address both Houses of Parliament during his state visit to the UK. Harriet Harman , the former deputy leader of the party, has led calls for female MPs to “empty chair” the President. She described his views on a range of issues as “appalling” and said the thought of sitting there “smiling and clapping” was “out of the question”. Read more Donald Trump given 24 hour deadline to respond to 'Muslim ban' ruling Iran test missile and radar systems after Trump imposes sanctions Labour’s John McDonnell promises cap on energy prices Labour dismisses 'collaboration' with Lib Dems in Stoke by-election “I could not be there clapping a man who is a self-confessed groper. His views on many issues are unacceptable,” Ms Harman told the . “And on foreign policy he seems to think he can just bully other countries and get his way. That we should sit there smiling and clapping is... well, for me it is out of the question.” Yvette Cooper, another former cabinet minister said it was a “joke” to think they would sit and listen to “a man who is turning the clock back on democracy, pushing misogyny and hatred of Muslims.” “We’ve fought for equality for decades and we certainly shouldn’t be honouring someone at the heart of British democracy who wants to rip those democratic values up,” Ms Cooper said. “Parliament has to show a bit of muscle on this and not just roll over because Theresa May sent out an embarrassing invitation to Trump in a desperate rush.” MPs are due to debate cancelling the new President’s official visit to the UK later this year following outrage over his ban on all citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries coming to the US after a petition was signed by nearly two million people. A potential compromise has emerged where Mr Trump may not be allowed to deliver a speech in the mediaeval hall, the most prestigious part of the Palace of Westminster. He may instead be invited to speak at the Royal Gallery in the House of Lords. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures       Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA        Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA        Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA        Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images        Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images        Police forensic officers at the scene after a woman's body was found in a car outside a Lidl supermarket in the Tile Cross area of Birmingham   PA wire        UKIP Health Spokesperson Suzanne Evans gives a major health policy speech as part of a push to help the party leader Paul Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency   Getty Images        Paul Nuttall, leader of UKIP embraces the party's Health Spokesperson, Suzanne Evans, after she spoke to the media about the party's health policy as part of a push to help Mr Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters     18 January 2017   Drug smuggler Errol Watson who has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid.  Watson, 54, from Wanstead, east London, was arrested after Border Force officers at Gatwick examined a consignment labelled as oil filters from Barbados. Officers drilled inside to find bright pink liquid which tested positive for cocaine after an x-ray of the filters raised suspicions   PA     18 January 2017   The pipes that contained cocaine as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid   PA     18 January 2017   Cocaine being extracted from a pipe as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years   PA     17 January 2017   A general view of a Green Plaque unveiled to celebrate 100 years of the Ivy   Getty Images     17 January 2017   The Ivy Restaurant in London as it celebrates its 100th anniversary   PA wire     17 January 2017   The coffin of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England   Getty Images     17 January 2017   The funeral cortege of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England   Getty Images     17 January 2017   Jill Saward's husband Gavin Drake is comforted after her funeral at Lichfield Cathedral in Staffordshire   PA wire     17 January 2017   The sun rises through the frosty mist in as deer graze in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire   PA     17 January 2017   A misty Sunrise in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire   PA     16 January 2017   Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   On Your Wavelength by Marcus Lyall uses mind-power to choreograph light patterns at the Canary Wharf Winter Lights Festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Horizontal Interference by Joachim Slugocki and Katarzyna Malejka illuminates Westferry Circus in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Ovo, by Ovo Collective immerses visitors in a unique light structure as part of the Canary Wharf Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     16 January 2017   Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017   Matt Alexander/PA Wire     12 January 2017   A postman in Braco, near Stirling, Scotland.  Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Andrew Milligan/PA Wire     12 January 2017   Highland cattle in the snow near Brough.   Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Owen Humphreys/PA Wire     12 January 2017   Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK   Andrew Milligan/PA Wire  The move would be significant as the hall is traditionally reserved for the most respected world leaders, including Mr Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama, who spoke there in 2011. The solution was reportedly proposed by Speaker John Bercow who is said to be “not happy” about the level of MPs concerns about the idea, reported. So far a total of 150 MPs have signed a statement calling for Mr Trump to be denied a parliamentary address. More about: Donald Trump Labour boycott Comments

A group of Labour’s most senior female MPs have vowed to boycott Donald Trump’s speech if he is invited to address both Houses of Parliament during his state visit to the UK.

Harriet Harman, the former deputy leader of the party, has led calls for female MPs to “empty chair” the President.

She described his views on a range of issues as “appalling” and said the thought of sitting there “smiling and clapping” was “out of the question”.

“I could not be there clapping a man who is a self-confessed groper. His views on many issues are unacceptable,” Ms Harman told the Observer.

“And on foreign policy he seems to think he can just bully other countries and get his way. That we should sit there smiling and clapping is... well, for me it is out of the question.”

Yvette Cooper, another former cabinet minister said it was a “joke” to think they would sit and listen to “a man who is turning the clock back on democracy, pushing misogyny and hatred of Muslims.”

“We’ve fought for equality for decades and we certainly shouldn’t be honouring someone at the heart of British democracy who wants to rip those democratic values up,” Ms Cooper said.

“Parliament has to show a bit of muscle on this and not just roll over because Theresa May sent out an embarrassing invitation to Trump in a desperate rush.”

MPs are due to debate cancelling the new President’s official visit to the UK later this year following outrage over his ban on all citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries coming to the US after a petition was signed by nearly two million people.

A potential compromise has emerged where Mr Trump may not be allowed to deliver a speech in the mediaeval hall, the most prestigious part of the Palace of Westminster. He may instead be invited to speak at the Royal Gallery in the House of Lords.

UK news in pictures







31 show all UK news in pictures



























































1/31 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

2/31 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

3/31 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

4/31 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

5/31 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

6/31 Police forensic officers at the scene after a woman's body was found in a car outside a Lidl supermarket in the Tile Cross area of Birmingham PA wire

7/31 UKIP Health Spokesperson Suzanne Evans gives a major health policy speech as part of a push to help the party leader Paul Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency Getty Images

8/31 Paul Nuttall, leader of UKIP embraces the party's Health Spokesperson, Suzanne Evans, after she spoke to the media about the party's health policy as part of a push to help Mr Nuttall to become the Member of Parliament for the Stoke Central constituency Getty Images

9/31 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

10/31 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/31 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

12/31 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/31 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

14/31 18 January 2017 Drug smuggler Errol Watson who has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid. Watson, 54, from Wanstead, east London, was arrested after Border Force officers at Gatwick examined a consignment labelled as oil filters from Barbados. Officers drilled inside to find bright pink liquid which tested positive for cocaine after an x-ray of the filters raised suspicions PA

15/31 18 January 2017 The pipes that contained cocaine as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years for a 'sophisticated' plot to bring £2 million of cocaine into Britain disguised in lurid pink liquid PA

16/31 18 January 2017 Cocaine being extracted from a pipe as drug smuggler Errol Watson has been jailed at the Old Bailey for 16 years PA

17/31 17 January 2017 A general view of a Green Plaque unveiled to celebrate 100 years of the Ivy Getty Images

18/31 17 January 2017 The Ivy Restaurant in London as it celebrates its 100th anniversary PA wire

19/31 17 January 2017 The coffin of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England Getty Images

20/31 17 January 2017 The funeral cortege of Jill Saward leaves Lichfield Cathedral after her funeral service in Lichfield, England Getty Images

21/31 17 January 2017 Jill Saward's husband Gavin Drake is comforted after her funeral at Lichfield Cathedral in Staffordshire PA wire

22/31 17 January 2017 The sun rises through the frosty mist in as deer graze in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire PA

23/31 17 January 2017 A misty Sunrise in Windsor Great Park, Berkshire PA

24/31 16 January 2017 Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

25/31 16 January 2017 On Your Wavelength by Marcus Lyall uses mind-power to choreograph light patterns at the Canary Wharf Winter Lights Festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

26/31 16 January 2017 Horizontal Interference by Joachim Slugocki and Katarzyna Malejka illuminates Westferry Circus in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

27/31 16 January 2017 Ovo, by Ovo Collective immerses visitors in a unique light structure as part of the Canary Wharf Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

28/31 16 January 2017 Angels from Freedom by OVE Collective illuminates in Jubilee Park in Canary Wharf, London as part of the Winter Lights festival 2017 Matt Alexander/PA Wire

29/31 12 January 2017 A postman in Braco, near Stirling, Scotland. Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Andrew Milligan/PA Wire

30/31 12 January 2017 Highland cattle in the snow near Brough. Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Owen Humphreys/PA Wire

31/31 12 January 2017 Frequent snow showers and strong winds are expected widely across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the north of England on Thursday with the possibility of sleet or snow for a short time in the south of the UK Andrew Milligan/PA Wire

The move would be significant as the hall is traditionally reserved for the most respected world leaders, including Mr Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama, who spoke there in 2011.

The solution was reportedly proposed by Speaker John Bercow who is said to be “not happy” about the level of MPs concerns about the idea, The Sunday Telegraph reported.

So far a total of 150 MPs have signed a statement calling for Mr Trump to be denied a parliamentary address.