Lady Gaga's Sales Surge 1,000 Percent on Heels of Super Bowl Performance
Lady Gaga's Sales Surge 1,000 Percent After Halftime Show
Shares                Lady Gaga is still basking in the glow of her blockbuster performance at the Super Bowl LI halftime show -- and so are her music sales. The pop star's digital sales surged more than 1,000 percent on the day of the big game, according to Nielsen Music. Gaga sold around 150,000 digital albums and songs in the U.S. on Sunday, a major increase from the day before, when she sold about 15,000 units in both those categories, according to a new Nielsen Music report. What's more, the singer sold more albums and songs on Super Bowl Sunday than she did the entire week ending Feb. 2 when accounting for both digital and physical sales. She sold about 30,000 units during that week, with about 26,000 of those sales coming from digital platforms, Nielsen said. Gaga's 13-minute set included renditions of "God Bless America," and "This Land is Your Land" as well performances of her three No. 1 Billboard Hot 100 hits: "Just Dance," "Poker Face," and "Born This Way." About 111.3 million viewers tuned in to watch the New England Patriots face off with the Atlanta Falcons , according to preliminary Nielsen results. Gaga seems to have noticed the importance of seizing the moment and capitalizing on the massive recognition. Shortly after the big game concluded, the pop diva announced her 2017 Joanne World Tour via Twitter. It will be her first tour as a solo headlining artist since 2014.  pic.twitter.com/1Azwl8RvRW  The show went over exceedingly well on social media with everyone from Hillary Clinton to Katy Perry singing Gaga's praises. "I'm one of 100 million #SuperBowl fans that just went #Gaga for the Lady, & her message to all of us," Clinton tweeted on Sunday.  I'm one of 100 million #SuperBowl fans that just went #Gaga for the Lady, & her message to all of us. https://t.co/8AoNqjwr1b  Former Vice President Joe Biden said the performance was "incredible."  Incredible performance from my friend @LadyGaga . You amaze me — and not just onstage. Proud to work with you to end sexual assault. #ItsOnUs  pic.twitter.com/ZOva2lpAOZ  Florida Senator Marco Rubio applauded the performance, donning it "one of best #SuperBowl shows" that he could remember.  Wasn't sure what to expect with everything going on. But that was quite a show by @ladyGaga one of best #SuperBowl shows I can remember   Ivanka Trump said it was an "incredible performance."  Incredible performance by @ladygaga  #PepsiHalftime  #SuperBowl  Actor Chris Pratt tweeted that the show was "freakin' awesome."  Dancing hard. Singing live. Ends it catching a football! I always liked #Gaga . Now I love her. Sorry not sorry. That was freakin' awesome.  And Katy Perry, who headlined the Super Bowl XLIX halftime show back in 2015, was also a fan.  I want jumping gifs stat! Bravo @ladygaga ????  Shares                  Lady Gaga's Sales Surge 1,000 Percent After Halftime Show   3 Former Bachelors Advise Nick Viall After Triple Elimination   How Lady Gaga Got in Shape for Her Super Bowl Halftime Performance   Christie Brinkley Poses With Daughters for Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue   One-of-a-Kind Comic Book Store Owner Gets Her Own Special Cover   This Year's Oscar Nominees Pose for Annual Class Photo   Inside Lady Gaga's Airbnb Super Bowl Home   Sean Spicer Reacts to Melissa McCarthy 'SNL' Impression   Wahlberg FaceTimes Ludacris, Usher After Patriots Win   Scarlett Johansson Discusses Hollywood Wage Gap, Sexism   Princess Kate Shares Parenting Advice During School Visit   Senate Dems Hold All-Night Floor Session to Protest DeVos   State, Federal Lawyers in Court to Argue Trump Travel Ban   Trump's Labor Secretary Pick Admits to Employing Undocumented Worker   23 States Under Winter Weather Alerts as US Braces for Severe Storms

Lady Gaga is still basking in the glow of her blockbuster performance at the Super Bowl LI halftime show -- and so are her music sales.

The pop star's digital sales surged more than 1,000 percent on the day of the big game, according to Nielsen Music.

Gaga sold around 150,000 digital albums and songs in the U.S. on Sunday, a major increase from the day before, when she sold about 15,000 units in both those categories, according to a new Nielsen Music report.

What's more, the singer sold more albums and songs on Super Bowl Sunday than she did the entire week ending Feb. 2 when accounting for both digital and physical sales. She sold about 30,000 units during that week, with about 26,000 of those sales coming from digital platforms, Nielsen said.

Gaga's 13-minute set included renditions of "God Bless America," and "This Land is Your Land" as well performances of her three No. 1 Billboard Hot 100 hits: "Just Dance," "Poker Face," and "Born This Way."

About 111.3 million viewers tuned in to watch the New England Patriots face off with the Atlanta Falcons, according to preliminary Nielsen results.

Gaga seems to have noticed the importance of seizing the moment and capitalizing on the massive recognition. Shortly after the big game concluded, the pop diva announced her 2017 Joanne World Tour via Twitter. It will be her first tour as a solo headlining artist since 2014.

The show went over exceedingly well on social media with everyone from Hillary Clinton to Katy Perry singing Gaga's praises.

"I'm one of 100 million #SuperBowl fans that just went #Gaga for the Lady, & her message to all of us," Clinton tweeted on Sunday.

I'm one of 100 million #SuperBowl fans that just went #Gaga for the Lady, & her message to all of us. https://t.co/8AoNqjwr1b — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 6, 2017

Former Vice President Joe Biden said the performance was "incredible."

Incredible performance from my friend @LadyGaga. You amaze me — and not just onstage. Proud to work with you to end sexual assault. #ItsOnUs pic.twitter.com/ZOva2lpAOZ — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) February 6, 2017

Florida Senator Marco Rubio applauded the performance, donning it "one of best #SuperBowl shows" that he could remember.

Wasn't sure what to expect with everything going on. But that was quite a show by @ladyGaga one of best #SuperBowl shows I can remember — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) February 6, 2017

Ivanka Trump said it was an "incredible performance."

Actor Chris Pratt tweeted that the show was "freakin' awesome."

Dancing hard. Singing live. Ends it catching a football! I always liked #Gaga. Now I love her. Sorry not sorry. That was freakin' awesome. — chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) February 6, 2017

And Katy Perry, who headlined the Super Bowl XLIX halftime show back in 2015, was also a fan.