Kylie Minogue Vs Kylie Jenner Trademark Stoush Has a Winner
Kylie Minogue Vs Kylie Jenner Trademark Stoush Has a Winner
Kylie Minogue Vs Kylie Jenner Trademark Stoush Has a Winner  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  There is only one Kylie. And that’s . The Aussie pop singer has reportedly won a legal battle with reality TV star Kylie Jenner, who had applied to trademark the name "Kylie" in the U.S. Jenner, the teen model and star of , sought to register "Kylie" for "advertising services" and "endorsement services," according to papers filed with the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) in April 2015.  Kylie Minogue, who is on a first-name basis with her millions of fans around the globe, owns the website www.kylie.com , and has been performing as "Kylie" since before Jenner was born, filed a notice of opposition citing possible confusion and "damage" to her branding. In papers issued in 2016, KDB, an Australian-based business representing Minogue, dismissed Jenner as a “secondary reality television personality” who appeared as “a supporting character” on the popular Kardashians. A settlement may have now been reached, according to the , and the trademark battle appears to have come to an end. has more on the matter . The Patent Office last week rejected Jenner’s application and her legal team has lodged an appeal, the British news title notes. Neither side has commented on the development and the USPTO does not comment on individual cases.  Minogue has sold more than 65 million albums over her career, and won Brit Awards, Grammys and in 2007 she became the first-ever woman (and first foreigner) to receive Britain's prestigious Music Industry Trusts' Award. In 2011, she was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame. The development in her trademark battle comes as Minogue prepares for the release of a new album, her first through a new recording deal with BMG.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

There is only one Kylie. And that’s Kylie Minogue. The Aussie pop singer has reportedly won a legal battle with reality TV star Kylie Jenner, who had applied to trademark the name "Kylie" in the U.S.

Jenner, the teen model and star of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, sought to register "Kylie" for "advertising services" and "endorsement services," according to papers filed with the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) in April 2015.

Kylie Minogue, who is on a first-name basis with her millions of fans around the globe, owns the website www.kylie.com, and has been performing as "Kylie" since before Jenner was born, filed a notice of opposition citing possible confusion and "damage" to her branding.



In papers issued in 2016, KDB, an Australian-based business representing Minogue, dismissed Jenner as a “secondary reality television personality” who appeared as “a supporting character” on the popular Kardashians.

A settlement may have now been reached, according to the BBC, and the trademark battle appears to have come to an end.

The Mail on Sunday has more on the matter. The Patent Office last week rejected Jenner’s application and her legal team has lodged an appeal, the British news title notes. Neither side has commented on the development and the USPTO does not comment on individual cases.

Minogue has sold more than 65 million albums over her career, and won Brit Awards, Grammys and in 2007 she became the first-ever woman (and first foreigner) to receive Britain's prestigious Music Industry Trusts' Award. In 2011, she was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame.

The development in her trademark battle comes as Minogue prepares for the release of a new album, her first through a new recording deal with BMG.