'Wolfenstein 3D' mod asks you politely whether you want to shoot Nazis
'Wolfenstein 3D' mod asks you politely whether you want to shoot Nazis
Thanks to a recent incident, in which alt-right leader Richard Spencer got punched in the face on camera, an odd ethics question arose: Is it ever OK to punch a Nazi? Now, a modified game — the classic game in which you wander around a castle, shooting Nazis — takes that question to its extreme: Is it ever OK to shoot a Nazi? SEE ALSO: See How Much 'Wolfenstein' Has Changed in the Last 22 Years The Dialogue 3D mod, created by game developer Ramsey Nasser and noticed by , looks and plays just like the original, but before you start spraying bullets, it asks questions such as "Wait, is it ok to shoot Nazis?" and "Wouldn't peaceful protest be more effective?" People have been asking if punching fascists is OK, so I made a game exploring that question. Enjoy Dialogue 3-D https://t.co/VH0lZ37H2E  pic.twitter.com/caaPUUDMfM — Ramsey Nasser (@ra) February 6, 2017 By juxtaposing the original moral dilemma to a violent game, in which you shoot armed Nazi soldiers, the game poses some interesting questions. Violence is not OK, and shooting people is never a good idea. But what kind of protest is sufficient when the fascist rhetoric and ideology transcend mere talk and start destroying lives and infringing on individual freedoms, like it did in Nazi Germany? To play the game (it works best on Chrome browser), just go here . BONUS: 'I never felt this way till now:' Young girl breaks down as she speaks of violence around her

Thanks to a recent incident, in which alt-right leader Richard Spencer got punched in the face on camera, an odd ethics question arose: Is it ever OK to punch a Nazi?

Now, a modified Wolfenstein 3D game — the classic game in which you wander around a castle, shooting Nazis — takes that question to its extreme: Is it ever OK to shoot a Nazi?

The Dialogue 3D mod, created by game developer Ramsey Nasser and noticed by The Verge, looks and plays just like the original, but before you start spraying bullets, it asks questions such as "Wait, is it ok to shoot Nazis?" and "Wouldn't peaceful protest be more effective?"

People have been asking if punching fascists is OK, so I made a game exploring that question. Enjoy Dialogue 3-D https://t.co/VH0lZ37H2E pic.twitter.com/caaPUUDMfM — Ramsey Nasser (@ra) February 6, 2017

By juxtaposing the original moral dilemma to a violent game, in which you shoot armed Nazi soldiers, the game poses some interesting questions. Violence is not OK, and shooting people is never a good idea. But what kind of protest is sufficient when the fascist rhetoric and ideology transcend mere talk and start destroying lives and infringing on individual freedoms, like it did in Nazi Germany?

To play the game (it works best on Chrome browser), just go here.