Jimmy Kimmel Unmasks ‘Brady,’ as Jimmy Fallon Woos Belichick
Jimmy Kimmel Unmasks ‘Brady,’ as Jimmy Fallon Woos Belichick
All Hail ‘Tom Brady’ Everybody had some fun Monday night with the Super Bowl, but Jimmy Kimmel had the best trick up his sleeve when he introduced the Patriots’ star quarterback, Tom Brady. Out came a short guy in a football uniform who looked an awful lot like Matt Damon, Mr. Kimmel’s fake archnemesis, who has been repeatedly denied a guest spot on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Take your helmet off. No, it’s my lucky helmet. I’m not going to take it off. Just so much success here — Mr. Kimmel finally unmasked Mr. Damon, and the audience went wild. Touchdown! It is not a touchdown. It’s a touchdown! I won the Super Bowl, and I won your stupid show! You did not win this show, because you’re not on the couch, and the couch isn’t even out here! Mr. Kimmel then called a security guard, who asked “Brady” for an autograph before showing him the door. But that didn’t stop Mr. Damon from celebrating. Fawning Over Gaga and Belichick As for the losing Falcons team, Stephen Colbert was brutal. “Atlanta hasn’t been burned this badly since 1864,” Mr. Colbert said on “The Late Show.” Advertisement He also got in a dig at President Trump by praising Lady Gaga’s high-wire leap during the halftime show: “She really captured the national mood of wanting to hurl yourself off a building.” And “The Tonight Show” scored a coup: The Patriots’ star wide receiver, Julian Edelman, and famously gruff head coach, Bill Belichick, were guests. Advertisement “Julian is really excited to be here,” Jimmy Fallon said, “and Bill is also here.” Mr. Edelman probably sent Falcons fans over the edge with this revelation about the stunning catch he made as he landed on the ground. Give me a percentage. How much was hand-eye coordination, how much was luck? I would say, it was probably like 70 percent luck. But the Fallon interview also stood out for just how gushing it was, even by Mr. Fallon’s friendly standards. Can I call you coach? Do you mind if I call you coach? Oh yeah, because I’ve been called a lot worse than that. You have the best game face out of any coach in the history of the game, anyone, anywhere, any coach, anything. If you — you intimidate me when I watch you. Right now, I’m a little scared. Among the Trump Takedowns ... Mr. Colbert flayed one of Mr. Trump’s senior advisers, Kellyanne Conway, for falsely claiming the existence of a “Bowling Green massacre” with MSNBC and Cosmopolitan and referring to a “Bowling Green attack” with TMZ . “It could be more media bias,” Mr. Colbert said. “I say they need to present both sides of the story: The things that did happen and the things that didn’t happen. Then let the victims of the Bowling Green massacre decide if they were killed.” Seth Meyers of “Late Night” mocked Mr. Trump and Ms. Conway in his segment “A Closer Look.” “The important thing is that three million people died in the Bowling Green massacre, and they are all still registered to vote,” Mr. Meyers said. And Conan O’Brien somehow got his hands on recordings of phone calls between Mr. Trump and his predecessor, Barack Obama: Presidents, Now and Then On “The Daily Show,” Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Trevor Noah discussed Mr. Ellison’s early prediction of a Trump victory, and Mr. Ellison sprinkled in some mild criticism of Hillary Clinton. Michael Moore called it. Van Jones called it. People saw it coming. I mean, look, you’ve got to be talking about the issues that are pressing for American working people, and you’ve got to be talking directly to them as well, and I don’t think we were really doing much of either one. And so it came up and hit us really hard. I mean, you’ve got to campaign in Wisconsin. Yes. You know, in Kenosha, Wisconsin, they used to have $25-an-hour jobs. Plant went down, left, and now folks are hoping to work at the Amazon plant for $13. And they’re just having tough times. And this is going on all over the country, Midwest, South. And if you’re not speaking to that, you’re not speaking to them, and it leaves a billionaire who has always abused workers able to run right in there, and that’s just what happened. Mr. Colbert asked Paul Giamatti , the acclaimed star of the “John Adams” mini-series on HBO, if there was any correlation between the second president of the United States and the 45th. Oh sure. I mean, they were both sort of feisty chaps. You know, they both sort of didn’t take anything sitting down. You know, Adams did this whole Alien and Sedition Act. He was the guy who signed the Alien and Sedition Act, which was to make it, to keep the French out, at that point. So we have him to thank that the French didn’t overrun us. What We’re Excited About on Tuesday Night John Oliver sits down with Mr. Colbert in the run-up to the fourth season of Mr. Oliver’s show, “Last Week Tonight,” which begins Sunday. Both comedians are “Daily Show” alums and have been among the most aggressive late-night hosts targeting Mr. Trump. Will Arnett will be promoting “The Lego Batman Movie” on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Your humble writer is interested in this mostly so we can find out when “Arrested Development” is coming back . We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

He also got in a dig at President Trump by praising Lady Gaga’s high-wire leap during the halftime show:

“She really captured the national mood of wanting to hurl yourself off a building.”

And “The Tonight Show” scored a coup: The Patriots’ star wide receiver, Julian Edelman, and famously gruff head coach, Bill Belichick, were guests.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Julian is really excited to be here,” Jimmy Fallon said, “and Bill is also here.”

Mr. Edelman probably sent Falcons fans over the edge with this revelation about the stunning catch he made as he landed on the ground.

FALLON: Give me a percentage. How much was hand-eye coordination, how much was luck? EDELMAN: I would say, it was probably like 70 percent luck.

But the Fallon interview also stood out for just how gushing it was, even by Mr. Fallon’s friendly standards.

FALLON: Can I call you coach? Do you mind if I call you coach? BELICHICK: Oh yeah, because I’ve been called a lot worse than that. [LAUGHTER] FALLON: You have the best game face out of any coach in the history of the game, anyone, anywhere, any coach, anything. If you — you intimidate me when I watch you. Right now, I’m a little scared.

Among the Trump Takedowns ...

Mr. Colbert flayed one of Mr. Trump’s senior advisers, Kellyanne Conway, for falsely claiming the existence of a “Bowling Green massacre” with MSNBC and Cosmopolitan and referring to a “Bowling Green attack” with TMZ.

“It could be more media bias,” Mr. Colbert said. “I say they need to present both sides of the story: The things that did happen and the things that didn’t happen. Then let the victims of the Bowling Green massacre decide if they were killed.”

Seth Meyers of “Late Night” mocked Mr. Trump and Ms. Conway in his segment “A Closer Look.”

“The important thing is that three million people died in the Bowling Green massacre, and they are all still registered to vote,” Mr. Meyers said.

And Conan O’Brien somehow got his hands on recordings of phone calls between Mr. Trump and his predecessor, Barack Obama:

Presidents, Now and Then

On “The Daily Show,” Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Trevor Noah discussed Mr. Ellison’s early prediction of a Trump victory, and Mr. Ellison sprinkled in some mild criticism of Hillary Clinton.

Photo

ELLISON: Michael Moore called it. Van Jones called it. People saw it coming. I mean, look, you’ve got to be talking about the issues that are pressing for American working people, and you’ve got to be talking directly to them as well, and I don’t think we were really doing much of either one. And so it came up and hit us really hard. I mean, you’ve got to campaign in Wisconsin. NOAH: Yes. ELLISON: You know, in Kenosha, Wisconsin, they used to have $25-an-hour jobs. Plant went down, left, and now folks are hoping to work at the Amazon plant for $13. And they’re just having tough times. And this is going on all over the country, Midwest, South. And if you’re not speaking to that, you’re not speaking to them, and it leaves a billionaire who has always abused workers able to run right in there, and that’s just what happened.

Mr. Colbert asked Paul Giamatti, the acclaimed star of the “John Adams” mini-series on HBO, if there was any correlation between the second president of the United States and the 45th.

GIAMATTI: Oh sure. I mean, they were both sort of feisty chaps. You know, they both sort of didn’t take anything sitting down. You know, Adams did this whole Alien and Sedition Act. He was the guy who signed the Alien and Sedition Act, which was to make it, to keep the French out, at that point. So we have him to thank that the French didn’t overrun us.

What We’re Excited About on Tuesday Night

Photo

John Oliver sits down with Mr. Colbert in the run-up to the fourth season of Mr. Oliver’s show, “Last Week Tonight,” which begins Sunday. Both comedians are “Daily Show” alums and have been among the most aggressive late-night hosts targeting Mr. Trump.

Will Arnett will be promoting “The Lego Batman Movie” on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Your humble writer is interested in this mostly so we can find out when “Arrested Development” is coming back.