Will Trump Address U.K. Parliament? Not if Commons Speaker Can Help It
Will Trump Address U.K. Parliament? Not if Commons Speaker Can Help It
A Forceful Rebuke of Trump in Parliament John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, said Monday that he opposes having President Trump address Parliament.      LONDON — Invited just days after his inauguration to make a state visit to Britain , President Trump is expected to travel to London this year to meet Queen Elizabeth II amid all the pomp and ceremony the British can muster. But on Monday it seemed that Mr. Trump may have to do without one of the frequent trappings of such a visit — an invitation to address Parliament — after the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, publicly opposed such an appearance, citing his “opposition to racism and sexism.” The comments will embarrass both the British and American governments and add to the controversy over a planned state visit that has attracted opposition in Britain , where more than 1.8 million people have signed a petition urging the government to cancel Mr. Trump’s trip. The British prime minister, Theresa May, has insisted that the invitation to Mr. Trump stands. With Britain planning to leave the European Union, Mrs. May is eager to strike a quick trade deal with the United States, and British officials are hoping that the state visit may smooth those talks. But Mr. Bercow’s comments, made to lawmakers in Parliament and greeted with cheers from some deputies, are unlikely to help Mrs. May’s trans-Atlantic diplomacy. “Before the imposition of the migrant ban, I would myself have been strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall,” said Mr. Bercow, referring to the oldest part of the parliamentary building, in which foreign leaders have sometimes addressed both the elected House of Commons and the unelected House of Lords, the upper chamber. “But after the imposition of the migrant ban by President Trump, I am even more strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall,” he added. Advertisement Mr. Bercow said that an invitation to address Parliament was not up to him alone, although he added that he would be one of only a handful of people involved in asking a foreign leader to speak, either in Westminster Hall or in the Royal Gallery, another chamber of the Parliament building. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy “I feel very strongly that our opposition to racism and to sexism and our support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary are hugely important considerations in the House of Commons,” Mr. Bercow said. “An address by a foreign leader to both houses of Parliament is not an automatic right; it is an earned honor,” he added, noting “there are many precedents for state visits to take place in our country that do not include an address to both houses of Parliament.” Those include President George W. Bush, who visited in 2003 and did not address Parliament. President Barack Obama did deliver a speech in Westminster Hall in 2011 on his state visit, and President Xi Jinping of China spoke in the Royal Gallery in 2015. A number of British lawmakers have been threatening to organize a boycott of any speech by Mr. Trump in Parliament. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2017, on Page A16 of the with the headline: Citing ‘Racism,’ Commons Speaker Opposes Trump Address in British Parliament.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Video

LONDON — Invited just days after his inauguration to make a state visit to Britain, President Trump is expected to travel to London this year to meet Queen Elizabeth II amid all the pomp and ceremony the British can muster.

But on Monday it seemed that Mr. Trump may have to do without one of the frequent trappings of such a visit — an invitation to address Parliament — after the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, publicly opposed such an appearance, citing his “opposition to racism and sexism.”

The comments will embarrass both the British and American governments and add to the controversy over a planned state visit that has attracted opposition in Britain, where more than 1.8 million people have signed a petition urging the government to cancel Mr. Trump’s trip.

The British prime minister, Theresa May, has insisted that the invitation to Mr. Trump stands. With Britain planning to leave the European Union, Mrs. May is eager to strike a quick trade deal with the United States, and British officials are hoping that the state visit may smooth those talks.

But Mr. Bercow’s comments, made to lawmakers in Parliament and greeted with cheers from some deputies, are unlikely to help Mrs. May’s trans-Atlantic diplomacy.

Photo

“Before the imposition of the migrant ban, I would myself have been strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall,” said Mr. Bercow, referring to the oldest part of the parliamentary building, in which foreign leaders have sometimes addressed both the elected House of Commons and the unelected House of Lords, the upper chamber.

“But after the imposition of the migrant ban by President Trump, I am even more strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall,” he added.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Bercow said that an invitation to address Parliament was not up to him alone, although he added that he would be one of only a handful of people involved in asking a foreign leader to speak, either in Westminster Hall or in the Royal Gallery, another chamber of the Parliament building.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I feel very strongly that our opposition to racism and to sexism and our support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary are hugely important considerations in the House of Commons,” Mr. Bercow said.

“An address by a foreign leader to both houses of Parliament is not an automatic right; it is an earned honor,” he added, noting “there are many precedents for state visits to take place in our country that do not include an address to both houses of Parliament.”

Those include President George W. Bush, who visited in 2003 and did not address Parliament. President Barack Obama did deliver a speech in Westminster Hall in 2011 on his state visit, and President Xi Jinping of China spoke in the Royal Gallery in 2015.

A number of British lawmakers have been threatening to organize a boycott of any speech by Mr. Trump in Parliament.