This top Brooklyn chef has been leaving an important message about immigrants on receipts
This top Brooklyn chef has been leaving an important message about immigrants on receipts
And that hasn't just been shown in the form of vocal mass protests. Sometimes a quiet message of defiance can be just as powerful. OUTDOOR SEATING IS BACK! #Spring  #Brunch  #Brooklyn  pic.twitter.com/WvCsP8LJJ2  Here he is with Flight of the Conchords' Rhys Darby. #SmallbusinessSaturday Band meeting. Murray... present! Chef... present! Rhys Darby in the house! #FotC  pic.twitter.com/vtslmAKcaX  Breakfast in Brooklyn pic.twitter.com/JHEtfJhqPO  Immigrants make America great (they also cooked your food and served you today)  Snaps of the bill have gone viral on Twitter, with people loving his positive message. Simmons himself is an immigrant, having moved to America from New Zealand ten years ago. The chef told local New York station WPIX-TV: It's basically a silent protest. I think about the families being torn apart… Put yourself in their position, it would break me up. Staff at Kiwiana come from at least six different countries, including Russia, China, Guatamala and the Dominican Republic.                    Keep scrolling for next article

One of the few silver linings in the wake of Donald Trump’s attempts to halt immigration into the US, has been the many people expressing their appreciation and support for what immigrants have done for America.

And that hasn't just been shown in the form of vocal mass protests. Sometimes a quiet message of defiance can be just as powerful.

This is Kiwiana, a restaurant in Park Slope, Brooklyn.

It's owned and run by chef Mark Simmons, who appeared on the US reality show Top Chef.

Here he is with Flight of the Conchords' Rhys Darby.

Simmons has added a little message to the bottom of all the restaurant’s bills.

Breakfast in Brooklyn pic.twitter.com/JHEtfJhqPO — Mary Emily O'Hara (@MaryEmilyOHara) February 5, 2017

Immigrants make America great (they also cooked your food and served you today)

Snaps of the bill have gone viral on Twitter, with people loving his positive message.

Simmons himself is an immigrant, having moved to America from New Zealand ten years ago.

The chef told local New York station WPIX-TV:

It's basically a silent protest. I think about the families being torn apart… Put yourself in their position, it would break me up.

Staff at Kiwiana come from at least six different countries, including Russia, China, Guatamala and the Dominican Republic.

More: You can get the ultimate home-cooked meal from this restaurant run by grandmas

More: The US has the most immigrant inventors in the world, according to research