How West Papua’s gold rush has created a wasteland
How West Papua’s gold rush has created a wasteland


The western half of the island of New Guinea is rich in minerals, especially copper and gold, but its discovery has been a very mixed blessing for the local people.

It was the Dutch who first discovered minerals on the island in the 1930s and when the Netherlands cut its ties with the colony in the late 1960s it was the presence of the goodies underground which tempted neighbouring Indonesia.

What had been Dutch New Guinea was annexed by Indonesia in 1969 after a highly questionable referendum, known as the 'Act of Free Choice'.

Dead trees affected by gold mine waste, known as tailings are seen in Timika. Indonesia produces over $70billion in gold a year but the local people in West Papua rarely see any of that money

An illegal gold prospector sifts through sand and rock as she pans for gold in Timika. Indigenous tribes in West Papua such as the Kamoro are still trying to get their fair share of the country's wealth

The indigenous people, who are ethnically Melanesian, mainly Christian, and kinfolk of neighbouring Papua New Guinea, have been oppressed ever since by Muslim Indonesian settlers and Jakarta's occupying army.

In 1971 Melanesians made up 96 percent of the population but now they are in a minority and by 2020, if migration rates remain the same, they will be less than three in 10 of the population.

The West Papuans have also suffered as the land they depend on has been devastated by mining.

A man wearing a Santa Claus hat pans for gold in the Aikwa riverbed. According to reports, the Grasberg mine, owned Freeport McMoran, dumps as much as 200,000 tonnes of mine waste directly into the Aikwa delta system every day, turning thousands of hectares of forest and mangroves into wasteland

Indigenous tribes like the Kamoro say they have been hit by disease, poverty and environmental degradation since operations began at the Grasberg mine in 1973.

Their chief, Hironimus Urmani, told The Guardian: 'Nature is a blessing from God, and we are known by the three S's: Sago (trees), sampan (canoes) and Sungani (rivers). But life is very difficult now.'

The Free West Papua movement has been demanding independence for the territory but has struggled to gain attention in a world distracted by other issues.

The Grasberg mine is owned by an American firm, Freeport McMoRan, which is based in Arizona. They did not respond to Mail Online's request for a response.

The Aikwa river flows into the ocean but nowadays it is virtually an outflow pipe of the Grasberg gold and copper mine

The gold mine waste, known as tailings, has killed off thousands of trees in the Aikwa river delta

The Aikwa river is so polluted by mine waste that all the fish in it have long ago died off and the water is completely undrinkable. All it is good for now is gold prospecting

A man shows off the gold dust he had found in the Aikwa river. Most prospectors are able to obtain around a gram of gold per day, which they can sell for around £25

The gold is weighed on a scales. This amount is worth 400,000 rupiah (£25)

It takes a keen eye to spot the tiny dots of gold in the murky water