Brexit debate: MPs claim government concession fails to give Commons meaningful vote - Politics live

the veteran Conservative Eurosceptic, is speaking now. He says today is the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Maastricht treaty. He tabled more than 150 amendments to the bill when it was going through the Commons, he says. a Conservative, says that if Cash put down that many amendments to the Maastricht treaty bill, he should be supporting those MPs who want their MPs to this bill debated and voted on. Cash says he and his colleagues were quite open then about opposing government policy. And they were calling for a referendum, which we eventually had last year.      The Green MP has said on Twitter that MPs are being “duped” by the apparent concession being offered by David Jones. The Govt treating Parliament with contempt. MPs must not be duped - they're offering a 'choice' between an extreme brexit and a cliff edge. https://t.co/Xj41UQ4VLv      Anushka Asthana Conservative rebels were not immediately satisfied by the concession offered by David Jones. One told the Guardian it was not enough, but said they hoped the Brexit secretary, David Davis, would further clarify it. A second insisted it was “nearly there” but said potential rebels were determined that the word “agreement” would cover a situation in which there was no deal. They said parliament must “get a vote in all scenarios”.      Why the government's amendment does not give Labour what it wants It is now clear that the concession that David Jones announced about 45 minutes ago does not give Labour what it wants. To clarify, this is what has and has not been announced. We already knew that MPs and peers would get a vote on the Brexit deal. Theresa May announced that in her Lancaster House speech. Today David Jones told us three new things about these votes: that they would cover both the exit deal, and the new trade deal with the EU that the government wants to secure; that they would take place before the deal was finalised; and that they would take place before the European parliament voted on the deal. (See 2.38pm.) Labour’s NC1 (see 1.54pm) also says votes in the Commons and the Lords must cover both the exit deal, and the new trade deal being negotiated. And it says that the government should publish a statement about the Brexit deal before it is agreed by the European parliament. But NC1 suggests the votes in the Commons and the Lords should amount to a veto. It says: No minister of the crown may conclude any such agreement [a Brexit deal, or a new trade one] unless the proposed terms have been approved by resolution of both Houses. This implies strongly - although does not say explicitly - that if MPs and peers were to reject the deal, minister would be send back to try again. In other words, parliament would be able to exercise a veto. But Jones has explicitly said that this is not what the government is offering. Ministers will only give MPs and peers a ‘take it or leave it vote’, with the result that if the deal gets rejected, the UK will crash out of the EU anyway, defaulting to trading with the EU on WTO terms. (See 2.54pm.) Updated       It is starting to look as if Sir Keir Starmer was too trusting when he welcomed David Jones’ concession relatively warmly earlier. This is from Labour’s For any vote at end of #Brexit talks to be "meaningful" it can't be between a bad deal & WTO rules. Both would be disastrous #article50bill This is from my colleague Feels like Keir Starmer slightly wrongfooted on govt's Brexit vote timing concession -will still be a "take it or leave it" decision for MPs And this is from the Daily Mail’s Labour's Keir Starmer hailing 'huge concession' on Brexit vote, but as far as I can see, MPs will still face a choice of deal or no deal      Alex Salmond's speech the former SNP leader and former Scottish first minister, is speaking now. He says if this is a significant concession, it should be in the form of a written amendment. Labour’s says if MPs are offered a Hobson’s choice, that does not amount to a proper choice. Salmond agrees. He says David Davis said some time ago that he did not know whether the article 50 process was revocable.      the former Labour leader, says if the European parliament votes down the deal, the European commission will try for a better one. But if this parliament votes it down, there will not be an attempt to get a better one. Yet we pride ourselves on our sovereignty, he says. Jones suggests Miliband does not understand the process. He says if the European parliament votes down the deal, there is no guarantee there will be another one.      the Labour chair of the Brexit committee, asks Jones to clarify the offer again. Jones reads out the statement he made earlier. (See 2.38pm.)      Jones confirms Commons vote on the Brexit deal will be on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis Labour’s asks what will happen if MPs decline to approve the draft agreement. Jones says he has already answered that. The vote will be either to accept the deal. Or there will be no deal. That is the most meaningful vote you can imagine. (Jones has probably just undermined the significance of what he was offering 20 minutes ago.)      , the Conservative former attorney general, says we don’t know when the agreement will be finalised. It could be at one minute to midnight before the deadline. In those circumstances, letting MPs debate it first could lead to the deal being lost. Jones says this is a very fair point.      , the SNP MP, asks Jones to table an amendment on this. If they don’t, the Lords can put it into the bill as an amendment, he says, so it can be debated by MPs.      the Labour MP, asks Jones what he meant earlier when he said if there was no deal after two years, the UK would fall back on other arrangements. Jones says he is talking about relying on WTO trade terms. He says: If there were no agreement at all, which is a scenario I think is extremely unlikely, then ultimately it would be falling back upon World Trade Organisation arrangements. This, again, is nothing new. It’s been made very clear previously. , a Conservative, asks Jones to confirm that there would be a vote even if the “deal” amounts to there being no deal. Jones says it is hard to see how the Commons could have a vote if there were no deal. But, if there were no deal, ministers would still have to make a statement to the Commons, he says. Updated       asks what David Jones means when he says the vote will take place before the deal is agreed. Does that mean agreed with the other 27 member states? Or does that just mean before it is actually signed off by the European commission? Jones says this will be a difficult and complex negotiation. But what the government is proposing is that before the agreement is concluded, it will be put to a vote of the Commons and the Lords. That means the final draft agreement would be put to a vote, he says. Labour’s asks what will happen if the Commons votes it down and it then gets agreed by the European parliament. Jones says, if it were voted down, it would not be put to the European parliament.      David Jones' speech the Brexit minister, is speaking now. He repeats what he said to Sir Keir Starmer earlier. intervenes. He says a withdrawal agreement can be achieved in two years. But it is highly unlikely that Britain will get a trade deal with the EU within two years. So what would happen then? You just stressed to the House again that this only applies to both the withdrawal agreement and a final agreement from the future relationship between the UK and EU. It is my view, shared by many others, that the former is feasible within two years, the latter is highly unlikely within two years. Could you tell the House what will happen in that case, in other words a withdrawal agreement is agreed but not a new future agreement between the UK and EU? Jones says the government hopes to do both in two years. But the prime minister has made it clear that, if there is no final trade deal after two years, the UK will fall back on other arrangements. He says: Clearly I must preface what I’m about to say by saying we do not accept that we will not achieve such agreement, but the prime minister has already made clear that if we cannot come to an agreement then clearly we will have to fall back on other arrangements. That is something upon which the government has been consistently clear. Updated       Starmer says the most helpful thing would be for him to stop now and let David Jones speak.      is still speaking. He says it would be helpful if the government were to put its offer in writing. (But he is in some difficulty, because Jones’s offer has to a large extent replicated what Labour is asking for in NC1. See 1.54pm.) Topics  Article 50   EU referendum and Brexit   Housing   Communities   European Union     Opinion polls   Labour   Europe   Sajid Javid

15:35

Conservative rebels were not immediately satisfied by the concession offered by David Jones.

One told the Guardian it was not enough, but said they hoped the Brexit secretary, David Davis, would further clarify it.

A second insisted it was “nearly there” but said potential rebels were determined that the word “agreement” would cover a situation in which there was no deal. They said parliament must “get a vote in all scenarios”.