Hungary announces it will detain all new migrants in camps
Hungary announces it will detain all new migrants in camps


Hungary will detain all migrants into the EU until their asylum applications have been processed to stop them heading to countries such as Britain, it emerged last night.

They will not be allowed to leave makeshift camps across the country unless they either return home or have been granted leave to remain, a government spokesman said yesterday.

Donald Trump’s hardline stance on migrants entering the US has emboldened Hungary to implement the plan within weeks, it was suggested.

A policy of automatic detention could lead to clashes with the European Union – which the Hungarian prime minister’s spokesman accused of ‘lagging behind reality’ when it came to tackling the migrant crisis.

A spokesman for prime minister Viktor Orban said: 'Liberty comes only after security'

At a briefing in London, Mr Kovacs, spokesman for the prime minister of Hungary Viktor Orban, said: ‘Liberty comes only after security.

‘If you are not able to provide security for your own country, how can you guarantee liberties?’

He said under the new plans, migrants would be free to go back home but they would not be allowed to travel around Hungary or the EU.

The migrants would be provided with shelter, food and education, he said, and the country would abide by international rules when implementing the scheme.

This was to stop the ‘systematic abuse’ of the Schengen agreement, in which migrants have been allowed to travel freely between EU member states without border checks – though not into the UK.

He said: ‘Everybody who comes to the EU as a migrant is basically coming illegally.

‘We are going to introduce a new measure and that is no migrants can move freely up until there is a final legal decision, whether they are entitled for political asylum or refugee status.

‘They will not be allowed to move freely within the country.’

Mr Kovacs said that under the existing framework and European law, they are ‘free to move around instead of waiting for the final decision’.

He added that before they get a decision on their asylum application ‘they basically go to Europe, Germany, Britain’.

‘Within Schengen it is impossible to stop this, you have to reinforce the borders and establish the rules.’, he added.

He said ‘reducing the numbers is only possible through introducing these measures’. They will be able to leave the camps once their asylum application has been dealt with - a process which could take months.

Within two weeks the Hungarians will have a ‘new regulation formulated’ on the freedom of movement, Mr Kovacs said.

It was not clear if that referred to the shelters being in place by that point.

He added: ‘If you don’t put physical barriers on the borders, human traffickers are going to carry on their business.’

Asked if the election of Mr Trump made such policies easier to implement, he added: ‘We believe that a change of perspective in the United States helped others to respect the Hungarian position.’

Mr Orban was the only EU leader to publicly back Mr Trump in the race for the White House, saying his policies ‘would be the best choice for Europe and for Hungary’.

The Hungarian government said the European Union was 'lagging behind reality' on the crisis

In searing comments, the spokesman said the EU measures to tackle the migrant crisis were ‘lagging behind reality and hard evidence on the ground’.

He added: ‘The world has changed around Europe. It is not only the migration crisis that has shown Europe is not up for challenge.

‘It is slow to react, it is lagging behind in competitiveness, there are problems with demography, population, serious problems with security, internal security and military capabilities.’

He suggested a more effective way forward would be for member states to have more independence to implement their own plans.

The election of Donald Trump has emboldened Hungary's hardline stance on migrants

He added: ‘We believe that the future for a more effective, more efficient way of approaching the challenges Europe is facing is going to be more properly and more effectively handled and seen through the member states.

‘It is not about theories it is about pragmatism. The faster we do the faster we act, the better it is for Europe.’ Mr Kovacs also admitted that Hungary and other Nato countries had been ‘sleeping’ when it came to their own defence.

He said the country would be ‘stepping up’ its contribution to the alliance, and hitting the 2 per cent target by 2026.

In response to calls by President Trump for EU nations to increase defence spending, he said: ‘We have recognised we have been kind of sleeping.

‘We were very comfortable about others defending us. We have to step up in terms of finances.’

He also said the inability of the EU to provide Hungary with oil and gas, had pushed Hungary towards Vladimir Putin.

He added: ‘‘We need security for ourselves, especially in terms of energy. We need gas and oil and since the European Union has not provided so far any alternatives to supply Hungary we have to take our own interests and own needs.’