John Bercow should see that he is part of the problem, not the solution
John Bercow should see that he is part of the problem, not the solution
he Speaker of the House of Commons is a noble role, steeped in tradition, and profoundly linked to the institution that is Parliament. A gross blunder by the former is bound to have consequences for public respect and confidence in the latter. So it is that John Bercow, in his vain and self-regarding comments regarding the potential state visit of the newly elected President of the United States, has committed grievous damage . Mr Bercow should reflect that for many, he is the epitome of the preening, arrogant, establishment figure, revelling in a well-upholstered office of state. He could furthermore consider that it is such figures who have driven the public to such contempt for those in power, and that it was on just such a wave of disgust that Mr Trump was carried to the White House. Therefore Mr Bercow should welcome Mr Trump, not scorn him, for they represent two ends of the same political equation. One of the two is the coming man, however. Mr Bercow, by contrast, is a relic of a bygone political age, dependent for his survival on the support of a fragmented Opposition, itself not up to the vital task with which it has been entrusted. Parliament is, like the Speaker, struggling to convince the public of its legitimacy, as major issues like Brexit or the crisis in social care seem to overwhelm it. Yet Westminster will adapt and endure, as it has done for centuries, remembering that its primary purpose is to serve the people. Mr Bercow is beyond such reformation, and should think of this: the president he so derides as a threat to the values of democracy, is bound by those values to step down, come what may, after eight years in the job. Mr Bercow will reach that mark in June.

The Speaker of the House of Commons is a noble role, steeped in tradition, and profoundly linked to the institution that is Parliament. A gross blunder by the former is bound to have consequences for public respect and confidence in the latter. So it is that John Bercow, in his vain and self-regarding comments regarding the potential state visit of the newly elected President of the United States, has committed grievous damage.

Mr Bercow should reflect that for many, he is the epitome of the preening, arrogant, establishment figure, revelling in a well-upholstered office of state. He could furthermore consider that it is such figures who have driven the public to such contempt for those in power, and that it was on just such a wave of disgust that Mr Trump was carried to the White House. Therefore Mr Bercow should welcome Mr Trump, not scorn him, for they represent two ends of the same political equation.

One of the two is the coming man, however. Mr Bercow, by contrast, is a relic of a bygone political age, dependent for his survival on the support of a fragmented Opposition, itself not up to the vital task with which it has been entrusted. Parliament is, like the Speaker, struggling to convince the public of its legitimacy, as major issues like Brexit or the crisis in social care seem to overwhelm it. Yet Westminster will adapt and endure, as it has done for centuries, remembering that its primary purpose is to serve the people. Mr Bercow is beyond such reformation, and should think of this: the president he so derides as a threat to the values of democracy, is bound by those values to step down, come what may, after eight years in the job. Mr Bercow will reach that mark in June.