The best National Trust properties – as voted for by the experts
The best National Trust properties – as voted for by the experts
new television series, , airs on Channel 5 tonight. Shining a spotlight on one of the UK’s most cherished institutions – and some of the 500-odd sites that it looks after – the show will unearth some remarkable landscapes, historic properties and fascinating stories. Here the programme’s presenters reveal their favourite National Trust sites. 1. Quarry Bank Mill, Wilmslow: Alan Titchmarsh As a big fan of The Tale of Peter Rabbit, Alan Titchmarsh was tempted to name his favourite National Trust property as Hill Top, Beatrix Potter’s former cottage, at Near Sawrey in the Lake District . However, his family history steered him towards Quarry Bank Mill, a preserved shard of the Industrial Revolution in Manchester. “My mother was a mill worker before I was born,” he says. “Seeing those enormous machines made me emotional. Because, I realised, this was the environment she toiled in.” The Lake District's best pubs and inns 2. Snowshill Manor, Cotswolds: Jon Culshaw “I was amazed to discover the enormous diversity of properties and destinations cared for by The National Trust. Snowshill Manor in the Cotswolds held particular fascination for me, oozing historic atmosphere. The cornucopia of objects in the collection of Charles Paget Wade from medieval to Victorian times is breathtaking. And to have had the privilege of exploring the home where Sir Isaac Newton was born is something I’ll never forget.” The best boutique hotels in the Cotswolds 3. Jurassic Coast, Devon: Miriam O’Reilly "I was exploring the Jurassic Coast in Devon , and was told of a location on National Trust land which contained a secret from the earth’s past. From a distance it looked like an ordinary field – so I wasn’t expecting what opened up before me. In the grass were huge imprints – evidence of a large herd of dinosaurs which grazed there tens of millions of years ago. I did something I never imagined I would do – I walked in their footsteps!" The best hotels in Devon 4. Stourhead, Wiltshire: Oz Clarke "I absolutely loved working on Secrets of the National Trust – when I was young, my mum used to cart me off to all sorts of grand houses and gardens. My background is in music and architecture; while on the shoot visiting Stourhead and seeing their stained glass restoration work was particularly thrilling." The best hotels in Wiltshire 5. Blakeney Point, Norfolk: Suzannah Lipscombe "Although the National Trust is associated with historic houses, they are also involved with natural conservation. At Blakeney Point on the North Norfolk coast we discovered a conservation site set up by the Trust to protect seals, which used to be the target of hunters (it seems unbelievable because they’re so gorgeous). Now the Trust shields seals from visitors walking near them, but you can see them by boat as they flop around and soak in the sun." The best country house hotels in England 6. Lindisfarne Castle, Northumberland: Clive Aslet "I love Lindisfarne Castle, on the wild Northumbrian coast. It stands on Holy Island with its ancient association with St Cuthbert, which is thrilling. In the early 20th century, it was bought by Edward Hudson, who founded Country Life. He employed my great architectural hero Edwin Lutyens to remodel it. It was hopelessly cold and inconvenient, but a romantic idyll." Britain's 50 best hotels for summer

A new television series, Secrets of the National Trust, airs on Channel 5 tonight. Shining a spotlight on one of the UK’s most cherished institutions – and some of the 500-odd sites that it looks after – the show will unearth some remarkable landscapes, historic properties and fascinating stories. Here the programme’s presenters reveal their favourite National Trust sites.

1. Quarry Bank Mill, Wilmslow: Alan Titchmarsh

As a big fan of The Tale of Peter Rabbit, Alan Titchmarsh was tempted to name his favourite National Trust property as Hill Top, Beatrix Potter’s former cottage, at Near Sawrey in the Lake District. However, his family history steered him towards Quarry Bank Mill, a preserved shard of the Industrial Revolution in Manchester. “My mother was a mill worker before I was born,” he says. “Seeing those enormous machines made me emotional. Because, I realised, this was the environment she toiled in.”

2. Snowshill Manor, Cotswolds: Jon Culshaw

“I was amazed to discover the enormous diversity of properties and destinations cared for by The National Trust. Snowshill Manor in the Cotswolds held particular fascination for me, oozing historic atmosphere. The cornucopia of objects in the collection of Charles Paget Wade from medieval to Victorian times is breathtaking. And to have had the privilege of exploring the home where Sir Isaac Newton was born is something I’ll never forget.”

Alan Titchmarsh has family ties to Quarry Bank Mill Credit: ALAMY

3. Jurassic Coast, Devon: Miriam O’Reilly

"I was exploring the Jurassic Coast in Devon, and was told of a location on National Trust land which contained a secret from the earth’s past. From a distance it looked like an ordinary field – so I wasn’t expecting what opened up before me. In the grass were huge imprints – evidence of a large herd of dinosaurs which grazed there tens of millions of years ago. I did something I never imagined I would do – I walked in their footsteps!"

Jon Culshaw was particularly taken by this Cotswolds property Credit: ALAMY

4. Stourhead, Wiltshire: Oz Clarke

"I absolutely loved working on Secrets of the National Trust – when I was young, my mum used to cart me off to all sorts of grand houses and gardens. My background is in music and architecture; while on the shoot visiting Stourhead and seeing their stained glass restoration work was particularly thrilling."

The National Trust protects one third of this 95-mile coastline in Devon and Dorset Credit: ALAMY

5. Blakeney Point, Norfolk: Suzannah Lipscombe

"Although the National Trust is associated with historic houses, they are also involved with natural conservation. At Blakeney Point on the North Norfolk coast we discovered a conservation site set up by the Trust to protect seals, which used to be the target of hunters (it seems unbelievable because they’re so gorgeous). Now the Trust shields seals from visitors walking near them, but you can see them by boat as they flop around and soak in the sun."

Oz Clarke had a particularly penchant for Stourhead Credit: ALAMY

6. Lindisfarne Castle, Northumberland: Clive Aslet

"I love Lindisfarne Castle, on the wild Northumbrian coast. It stands on Holy Island with its ancient association with St Cuthbert, which is thrilling. In the early 20th century, it was bought by Edward Hudson, who founded Country Life. He employed my great architectural hero Edwin Lutyens to remodel it. It was hopelessly cold and inconvenient, but a romantic idyll."