Christie Brinkley poses for Sports Illustrated Swimsuit edition with daughters
Christie Brinkley poses for Sports Illustrated Swimsuit edition with daughters
Christie Brinkley attends NBC and Time Inc. to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue on Jan. 14, 2014, in Hollywood, Calif.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Model Christie Brinkley is returning to the pages of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue at age 63 and this time she’s appearing with her two daughters. The sparkling Christie Brinkley The Sports Illustrated cover girl and actress Christie Brinkley has become the bubbly, hands-on advocate for Bellissima, a sparkling Italian Pros... Brinkley will appear with 31-year-old Alexa Ray Joel, her daughter with singer Billy Joel, and 18-year-old Sailor Brinkley Cook, in the issue coming out this month. In an Instagram post , Brinkley thanks Sports Illustrated “for sending the powerful message that good things come in packages of every size and we do not come with an expiration date.” Brinkley told People magazine she had thought her days of posing in a bathing suit were over when she turned 30. But she said getting to pose with her daughters convinced her to do it again. Brinkley first appeared on the cover of the Swimsuit issue in 1979.  Yes! I am excited to announce that I  am back in @si_swimsuit ..I figured with my gorgeous daughters  @alexarayjoel and @sailorbrinkleycook  by my side whose going to be looking at me! Oh and My kids think I walk on water, so let's not mention the apple box concealed just under the surface. For a preview check out @people.com ..and thank you Sports Illustrated for sending the powerful message that good things come in packages of every size and we do not come with an expiration date! 🌸🌴psI can’t wait to see everyone at VIBES on Feb 17th and 18th in Houston! #proudmomhere! A photo posted by Christie Brinkley (@christiebrinkley) on                Tweet     Stumble     Email

NEW YORK -- Model Christie Brinkley is returning to the pages of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue at age 63 and this time she’s appearing with her two daughters.

Brinkley will appear with 31-year-old Alexa Ray Joel, her daughter with singer Billy Joel, and 18-year-old Sailor Brinkley Cook, in the issue coming out this month.

In an Instagram post, Brinkley thanks Sports Illustrated “for sending the powerful message that good things come in packages of every size and we do not come with an expiration date.”

Brinkley told People magazine she had thought her days of posing in a bathing suit were over when she turned 30. But she said getting to pose with her daughters convinced her to do it again.

Brinkley first appeared on the cover of the Swimsuit issue in 1979.