Waka Flocka Just Questioned Gucci Mane’s Street Cred
Waka Flocka Just Questioned Gucci Mane’s Street Cred
Wake Flocka stopped by Tuesday to clarify the hype surrounding his forthcoming single, which he teased on Instagram earlier this week with what many fans have considered an obvious Gucci Mane reference: Soon come.... A photo posted by WAKA FLOCKA (@wakaflocka) on Feb 5, 2017 at 7:02pm PST "The truth is the truth," Waka Flocka said of the standalone single. "Some stuff you gotta get off your chest or it's gonna make you, like, an angry person." "I made that baby sit down!" 👀 @DJWhooKid x @WakaFlocka joined @CharlieSloth to talk Gucci Mane & New music 😳  🔁 https://t.co/nwtLFECLhJ  pic.twitter.com/1mVGWQPO1n When asked if the track was specifically aimed at Gucci as many fans have predicted, Waka initially dodged. "Enough is enough," he said. "The internet is not the streets. There's a lot of rappers looking gangsta on the internet but they're soft in the streets." Running through uK with @djwhookid I had to stop by nd fuck with my guy @charliesloth #Flockaveli2promo A photo posted by WAKA FLOCKA (@wakaflocka) on Feb 7, 2017 at 7:49am PST Near the end of the interview, however, Waka gets a bit more specific on the longstanding rumors of a feud with Gucci. "Hey, since he been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta?" Waka asked. "Since Gucci been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta? Alright. I'm exposing these folks. I ain't no hater, I'm just exposing." The track in question drops soon. If Waka's comments here are any indication, we can likely expect some clarity on the years-long tensions between the two.

Wake Flocka stopped by BBC Radio 1Xtra Tuesday to clarify the hype surrounding his forthcoming single, which he teased on Instagram earlier this week with what many fans have considered an obvious Gucci Mane reference:

Soon come.... A photo posted by WAKA FLOCKA (@wakaflocka) on Feb 5, 2017 at 7:02pm PST

"The truth is the truth," Waka Flocka said of the standalone single. "Some stuff you gotta get off your chest or it's gonna make you, like, an angry person."

When asked if the track was specifically aimed at Gucci as many fans have predicted, Waka initially dodged. "Enough is enough," he said. "The internet is not the streets. There's a lot of rappers looking gangsta on the internet but they're soft in the streets."

Running through uK with @djwhookid I had to stop by nd fuck with my guy @charliesloth #Flockaveli2promo A photo posted by WAKA FLOCKA (@wakaflocka) on Feb 7, 2017 at 7:49am PST

Near the end of the interview, however, Waka gets a bit more specific on the longstanding rumors of a feud with Gucci. "Hey, since he been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta?" Waka asked. "Since Gucci been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta? Alright. I'm exposing these folks. I ain't no hater, I'm just exposing."

The track in question drops soon. If Waka's comments here are any indication, we can likely expect some clarity on the years-long tensions between the two.