Lady Gaga, Metallica to Duet at Grammys
Lady Gaga, Metallica to Duet at Grammys
Lady Gaga will join Metallica onstage at the Grammys this Sunday. On Monday, a Gaga fan site tweeted a snippet of a Grammy promo clip declaring, "Lady Gaga duets with Metallica." has confirmed the collaboration. This is the latest move in an impressive week from Gaga. Following her well-received Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday, she announced that she will tour arenas and stadiums all over the world behind her album , which came out last October. Billboard predicts that will jump back into the Top 5 on the Billboard 200 next week as listeners scoop up copies following her Super Bowl performance. Lady Gaga is a regular performer at the Grammys; she appeared at the ceremony last year to pay tribute to David Bowie . Metallica hasn't been on the show since 2014, when they performed the song "One" with the classical pianist Lang Lang . Metallica's "Hardwired" is nominated for Best Rock Song this year. The band is competing with David Bowie, Radiohead, Twenty One Pilots and Highly Suspect. Gaga is not up for any awards as was released after the 2016 deadline. Metallica and Gaga is one of several star pairings at the upcoming Grammys ceremony. Alicia Keys will also perform with country singer Maren Morris, while the Weeknd will reunite with collaborators Daft Punk. Related Content: Holly Holm: Ronda Rousey Can Come Back From Knockout Losses Hear Elton John Reveal His Favorite George Michael Song Melissa McCarthy: Fearless, Fierce and Funny

Lady Gaga will join Metallica onstage at the Grammys this Sunday. On Monday, a Gaga fan site tweeted a snippet of a Grammy promo clip declaring, "Lady Gaga duets with Metallica." Rolling Stone has confirmed the collaboration.

This is the latest move in an impressive week from Gaga. Following her well-received Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday, she announced that she will tour arenas and stadiums all over the world behind her album Joanne, which came out last October. Billboard predicts that Joanne will jump back into the Top 5 on the Billboard 200 next week as listeners scoop up copies following her Super Bowl performance.

Lady Gaga is a regular performer at the Grammys; she appeared at the ceremony last year to pay tribute to David Bowie. Metallica hasn't been on the show since 2014, when they performed the song "One" with the classical pianist Lang Lang.

Metallica's "Hardwired" is nominated for Best Rock Song this year. The band is competing with David Bowie, Radiohead, Twenty One Pilots and Highly Suspect. Gaga is not up for any awards as Joanne was released after the 2016 deadline.

Metallica and Gaga is one of several star pairings at the upcoming Grammys ceremony. Alicia Keys will also perform with country singer Maren Morris, while the Weeknd will reunite with Starboy collaborators Daft Punk.

Related Content: