Adele, Rihanna, Beyonce Headline Highest-Paid Grammy Nominees
Adele, Rihanna, Beyonce Headline Highest-Paid Grammy Nominees
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack O'Malley Greenburg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Hello! Adele is this year's top-earning Grammy nominee. (Photo by Theo Wargo/Getty Images) Since the release of her album and its record-breaking tour, Taylor Swift has won a raft of awards and honors, taking a gaggle of Grammys and the title of World's Highest-Paid Musician . But now that she's in between album cycles, there's room for others to grab some glory. Among all artists nominated for hardware at this year's 59th Grammy Awards, the highest-paid act is Adele, who pulled in $80.5 million in 2016 on the strength of a leading contender for Album of the Year--and the tour that followed; the British songstress has been pulling in an average of $3.8 million per city. Rihanna takes the No. 2 spot, pulling in $75 million thanks to gaudy totals on the road ($1.6 million per tour stop) and remunerative endorsement deals (Puma, Samsung, Dior). She has been nominated for eight Grammys this year, tied with Drake for the second-most nods; the duo's "Work" is up for Record of the Year. Beyoncé paced the field with nine Grammy nominations, but ranks No. 7 on the highest-paid list with a haul of $54 million. Look for that total to grow on next year's list, as much of her latest world tour occurred after the end of our scoring period for this year's list. As she once told FORBES: “I’ve never met anyone that works harder than me in my industry." Top-Paid Grammy Nominees 2017 The top-paid Grammy nominees list relies on figures from our 2016 ranking of the World’s Highest Paid Musicians , which measures pretax earnings from June 2015 through June 2016 before deducting fees for agents, managers and lawyers (the official accounting of Grammy nominees can be found here ). Other highlights on our list include No. 4 Justin Bieber, who earned $56 million and four Grammy nods; he's up for two of the big four awards--Album of the Year ( ) and Song of the Year ("Love Yourself"). Same goes for Drake, also for Album of the Year ( ) and for Record of the Year ("Work"). He ranks No. 10 with $38.5 million. Though the Grammys often honor projects that have enjoyed massive commercial success, big paydays and golden gramophones don't always go hand-in-hand. Of the 30 highest-paid musicians this year, only 10 earned at least one Grammy nomination. Sometimes running a business empire doesn't leave much time for making music; nor is it always relatable to younger crowds. "The voices of hip-hop ... they’re speaking to an 18 year old," said Jay Z, who ranks No. 8 on our list with $53.5 million, but landed just one Grammy nomination--and hasn't put out an album in four years. "I’m not going to do that anymore. I’m just going to make the music I love to make and I’m going to mature with my music."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Since the release of her album 1989 and its record-breaking tour, Taylor Swift has won a raft of awards and honors, taking a gaggle of Grammys and the title of World's Highest-Paid Musician. But now that she's in between album cycles, there's room for others to grab some glory.

Among all artists nominated for hardware at this year's 59th Grammy Awards, the highest-paid act is Adele, who pulled in $80.5 million in 2016 on the strength of 25--a leading contender for Album of the Year--and the tour that followed; the British songstress has been pulling in an average of $3.8 million per city.

Rihanna takes the No. 2 spot, pulling in $75 million thanks to gaudy totals on the road ($1.6 million per tour stop) and remunerative endorsement deals (Puma, Samsung, Dior). She has been nominated for eight Grammys this year, tied with Drake for the second-most nods; the duo's "Work" is up for Record of the Year.

Beyoncé paced the field with nine Grammy nominations, but ranks No. 7 on the highest-paid list with a haul of $54 million. Look for that total to grow on next year's list, as much of her latest world tour occurred after the end of our scoring period for this year's list. As she once told FORBES: “I’ve never met anyone that works harder than me in my industry."

The top-paid Grammy nominees list relies on figures from our 2016 ranking of the World’s Highest Paid Musicians, which measures pretax earnings from June 2015 through June 2016 before deducting fees for agents, managers and lawyers (the official accounting of Grammy nominees can be found here).

Other highlights on our list include No. 4 Justin Bieber, who earned $56 million and four Grammy nods; he's up for two of the big four awards--Album of the Year (Purpose) and Song of the Year ("Love Yourself"). Same goes for Drake, also for Album of the Year (Views) and for Record of the Year ("Work"). He ranks No. 10 with $38.5 million.

Though the Grammys often honor projects that have enjoyed massive commercial success, big paydays and golden gramophones don't always go hand-in-hand. Of the 30 highest-paid musicians this year, only 10 earned at least one Grammy nomination. Sometimes running a business empire doesn't leave much time for making music; nor is it always relatable to younger crowds.

"The voices of hip-hop ... they’re speaking to an 18 year old," said Jay Z, who ranks No. 8 on our list with $53.5 million, but landed just one Grammy nomination--and hasn't put out an album in four years. "I’m not going to do that anymore. I’m just going to make the music I love to make and I’m going to mature with my music."

For more on the business of entertainment, check out my books on Jay Z and Michael Jackson. For showbiz updates--and news on my next book, Three Kings--sign up for my email newsletter.