Wale & Lil Wayne Team Up for 'Running Back' Video: Watch
Wale & Lil Wayne Team Up for 'Running Back' Video: Watch
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Wale & Lil Wayne Team Up for 'Running Back' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After releasing his " Groundhog Day " video last week, Wale returns with his booming single "Running Back" featuring Lil Wayne . In the colorful visual, the Washington, D.C. rapper, who used to hit the gridiron as a player in college, and Lil Wayne, a Green Bay Packers die-hard, bounce around on-set while weaving in football references in their rhymes. "I excelled in football a lot," Wale said during Billboard and 1800 Tequila's "Back to the Block" series last June, where he returned to his DMV roots. "I got scholarship offers a lot -- East Carolina [University], Marshall -- and I ended up going to Robert Morris University." He added, "I love football and I think that maybe the fact that it's so absolute, like you scored these points or you didn't 'cause everything is always up for debate in music."  "Running Back" will be a track on Wale's forthcoming album . Check out the video below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After releasing his "Groundhog Day" video last week, Wale returns with his booming single "Running Back" featuring Lil Wayne.

In the colorful visual, the Washington, D.C. rapper, who used to hit the gridiron as a player in college, and Lil Wayne, a Green Bay Packers die-hard, bounce around on-set while weaving in football references in their rhymes.

"I excelled in football a lot," Wale said during Billboard and 1800 Tequila's "Back to the Block" series last June, where he returned to his DMV roots. "I got scholarship offers a lot -- East Carolina [University], Marshall -- and I ended up going to Robert Morris University." He added, "I love football and I think that maybe the fact that it's so absolute, like you scored these points or you didn't 'cause everything is always up for debate in music."

"Running Back" will be a track on Wale's forthcoming album SHINE. Check out the video below.