Seven 'Green' Buildings From Around The World Prove That Architecture Can Be Environment-Friendly
Seven 'Green' Buildings From Around The World Prove Architecture Can Be Environment-Friendly
Seven 'Green' Buildings From Around The World Prove That Architecture Can Be Environment-Friendly China is building Asia's first 'vertical forest' that will produce 60,000 Kg of Oxygen every day. This building is going to be an amalgamation of utility and sustainability and if built to success then proving that architecture and clean environment can go hand in hand. Though the Nanjing Towers will be literally green, such green buildings can also look modern but be sustainable. Here are other seven such buildings from around the world that look absolutely attractive and serve the planet with clean air: Also read: Asia's First Vertical Forest Is Being Built In China Which Will Produce 60 Kg Oxygen Every Day! 1. Manitoba Hydro Place in Winnipeg, Canada This is one of North America's most energy-efficient offices with its geothermal system that naturally heats and cools the building. 2. World Trade Centre in Bahrain This is a 240-metre-high twin tower complex located in Manama, Bahrain. It uses wind turbines to optimise power outputs. The two towers are linked via three skybridges, each holding a 225 kW wind turbine, totalling to 675 kW of wind power capacity. The wind turbines are expected to provide 11% to 15% of the towers' total power consumption, or approximately 1.1 to 1.3 GWh a year. This is equivalent to providing the lighting for about 300 homes, 258 hospitals, 17 industrial plants, and 33 car engines. 3. Wat Pa Maha Chedi Kaew in Sisaket, Thailand Also known as the Temple of a Million Bottles, is a Buddhist temple in Khun Han district of Sisaket province. In 2015, it was named one of the ten leading examples of sustainable architecture by travel website . 4. ACROS Fukuoka Foundation Building in Fukuoka, Japan At the time it was in 1995, the architecture, combining natural greenery and modern architecture, was way ahead of its time for the sustainable ethics it embodied. 5. Infosys Limited Building in Mysore

China is building Asia's first 'vertical forest' that will produce 60,000 Kg of Oxygen every day. This building is going to be an amalgamation of utility and sustainability and if built to success then proving that architecture and clean environment can go hand in hand.

Though the Nanjing Towers will be literally green, such green buildings can also look modern but be sustainable. Here are other seven such buildings from around the world that look absolutely attractive and serve the planet with clean air:

Also read: Asia's First Vertical Forest Is Being Built In China Which Will Produce 60 Kg Oxygen Every Day!

1. Manitoba Hydro Place in Winnipeg, Canada

RobAid

This is one of North America's most energy-efficient offices with its geothermal system that naturally heats and cools the building.

2. World Trade Centre in Bahrain

mapio

This is a 240-metre-high twin tower complex located in Manama, Bahrain. It uses wind turbines to optimise power outputs. The two towers are linked via three skybridges, each holding a 225 kW wind turbine, totalling to 675 kW of wind power capacity. The wind turbines are expected to provide 11% to 15% of the towers' total power consumption, or approximately 1.1 to 1.3 GWh a year. This is equivalent to providing the lighting for about 300 homes, 258 hospitals, 17 industrial plants, and 33 car engines.

3. Wat Pa Maha Chedi Kaew in Sisaket, Thailand

buro247

Also known as the Temple of a Million Bottles, is a Buddhist temple in Khun Han district of Sisaket province. In 2015, it was named one of the ten leading examples of sustainable architecture by travel website When on Earth.

4. ACROS Fukuoka Foundation Building in Fukuoka, Japan

buro247

At the time it was in 1995, the architecture, combining natural greenery and modern architecture, was way ahead of its time for the sustainable ethics it embodied.

5. Infosys Limited Building in Mysore

Infosys

This building is one of the most energy and water efficient in India and was awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design award in 2012.

6. Micro Emission Sun-Moon Mansion in Dezhou, China

buro247

One of the largest solar-panelled structures in the world with 50,000 feet of solar panelling.

7. Pixel Building in Melbourne, Australia

Pixel building

This building in the capital of Australia is not only 100 per cent carbon free, but also has a system that offsets carbon contained in the construction materials of the building.