Black New England Patriots Players Boycotting Trump Visit
Black New England Patriots Players Boycotting Trump Visit
While the New England Patriots were able to overcome a massive deficit to win Super Bowl LI , controversy surrounded the team because of the fact that their star player , coach , and owner were all pals with Donald Trump—something POTUS was eager to let the world know. What an amazing comeback and win by the Patriots. Tom Brady, Bob Kraft and Coach B are total winners. Wow! But not everyone on the team is a fan of 45. Tight end Martellus Bennett and free safety After the big game, Bennett was the first to speak. He told the about his decision, "

While the New England Patriots were able to overcome a massive deficit to win Super Bowl LI, controversy surrounded the team because of the fact that their star player, coach, and owner were all pals with Donald Trump—something POTUS was eager to let the world know.

What an amazing comeback and win by the Patriots. Tom Brady, Bob Kraft and Coach B are total winners. Wow! — Donald J. Trump ( @realDonaldTrump ) February 6, 2017

But not everyone on the team is a fan of 45. Tight end Martellus Bennett and free safety Devin McCourty have both announced that they will be skipping their team's visit to the White House. The two players, both African-American, have made political statements before. Earlier in the season, they raised their fists after the national anthem to show their support for Colin Kaepernick's now-famous protests against racist police violence.

After the big game, Bennett was the first to speak. He told the Dallas Morning News about his decision, ""It is what it is. People know how I feel about it."

The following day, McCourty sent a text to TIME announcing his decision to join his teammate. "I'm not going to the White House," he wrote. "Basic reason for me is I don't feel accepted in the White House. With the president having so many strong opinions and prejudices I believe certain people might feel accepted there while others won't."

So far, no other Patriots have announced their decisions to skip the trip to D.C. If any do, we'll be sure to keep you posted.