Katy Perry Shares Reggae-Tinged Tease of New Song 'Chained to the Rhythm'
Katy Perry Shares Reggae-Tinged Tease of New Song 'Chained to the Rhythm'
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Katy Perry Shares Reggae-Tinged Tease of New Song 'Chained to the Rhythm'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  On Monday, the Recording Academy revealed that Katy Perry would be performing at Sunday's Grammys , and then on Tuesday (Feb. 7), Katy herself began teasing a new song coming out this Friday. Now, we have our first (very brief) taste of the song -- which is called "Chained to the Rhythm," has heard -- thanks to a new Instagram post. The visual accompanying the song teaser shows Perry walking in silver stilettos with a disco ball chained to her ankle, as a reggae-tinged intro plays in the final few seconds. The reggae/dance hybrid sound lends credence to rumors that the new song features Bob Marley grandson Skip Marley, who just signed to Island Records and released his own track "Lions" last Friday. Perry even took to Twitter to shout out Skip's new song, calling him "the voice of our REVOLUTION."  It remains to be seen whether Perry will sing "Chained to the Rhythm" for the first time at the 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, where she'll perform alongside The Weeknd, Lady Gaga, Demi Lovato, Bruno Mars and many, many more. Take a quick listen to Perry's latest below: Why are we all so chained... #FRIDAYTHE10TH A video posted by KATY PERRY (@katyperry) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

On Monday, the Recording Academy revealed that Katy Perry would be performing at Sunday's Grammys, and then on Tuesday (Feb. 7), Katy herself began teasing a new song coming out this Friday. Now, we have our first (very brief) taste of the song -- which is called "Chained to the Rhythm," Billboard has heard -- thanks to a new Instagram post.

The visual accompanying the song teaser shows Perry walking in silver stilettos with a disco ball chained to her ankle, as a reggae-tinged intro plays in the final few seconds. The reggae/dance hybrid sound lends credence to rumors that the new song features Bob Marley grandson Skip Marley, who just signed to Island Records and released his own track "Lions" last Friday. Perry even took to Twitter to shout out Skip's new song, calling him "the voice of our REVOLUTION."

It remains to be seen whether Perry will sing "Chained to the Rhythm" for the first time at the 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, where she'll perform alongside The Weeknd, Lady Gaga, Demi Lovato, Bruno Mars and many, many more.

Take a quick listen to Perry's latest below: