Stash Some Cash -- You're One Surprise Away From Going Broke
Stash Some Cash -- You're One Surprise Away From Going Broke
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Level Up       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.       Trending on {{channel_name}}

Can you afford a emergency? Not a "must see Beyoncé live" crisis, but a 911 situation requiring cold hard cash to the tune of $1,000. Think dental surgery or bailing a relative out of jail. If you’re like two-thirds of Americans who don’t have a spare grand, start saving now--like your life depends on it.

How robust should your emergency fund be? It depends. If you own a home or a car, you’ll need more for inevitable repairs. Regardless of your assets, experts suggest saving the equivalent of several months salary, should you get laid off. This calculator tells you what your threshold of savings safety is.

Stop thinking about Roth IRAs as being just for retirement

The Roth IRA is a savings vehicle that is tax-advantaged three times over: when you put money in, when the money grows and when you take the money out. Unlike an HSA, you don’t need to prove the cash was used for medical expenses. Then, you can withdraw funds to use for non-medical expenses but you’ll owe ordinary income taxes. You can take money out any time and for any reason--making it one of the best places to your stash cash.

HSA for your health

No one’s immune to medical emergencies, no matter their tax bracket. Fully fund an HSA now if you’re eligible. The limit’s $3,400 if you’re single and $6,750 for families (Plus a bonus $1,000 for those 55+). If your employer contributes, you should contribute enough to max it out. Once you reach a certain amount, you can invest the fund in the broader market. While you can only withdraw for qualified medical expenses until you reach 65, you’re sure to need doctor bucks at some point be it an appendectomy or a pregnancy.

Calamity on credit

Lacking liquidity in a panic can mean it’s time to use the dirty word: credit. But even borrowers have choices. Evaluate your options to find the lowest interest option. Avoid payday lenders which are often predatory and trap consumers in a seemingly endless cycle of debt.

Fintech startups LendUp and Affirm offer short-term credit options at rates lower than most credit cards. You needn't have stellar credit to qualify.

To prevent a penny-pinching bind in the first place, check out Acorns, which rounds each purchase you make, investing your loose change in the broader market. You'll be bolstering your emergency fund every time you buy a latte.