Christians & Feminists Team Up to Fight Transgender Bathroom Mandate

Christians & Feminists Team Up to Fight Transgender Bathroom Mandate // // // Two unlikely groups have teamed up to oppose former President Barack Obama's transgender bathroom mandate. The Obama administration told public schools last year they had to allow anyone who identified as transgender to use the bathroom of their choice. If schools refused to enforce the rule, they would be denied federal funding. The Family Policy Alliance, which is the public policy partner of the Christian conservative organization Focus on the Family, is working with a radical feminist group, the Women's Liberation Front (WoLF), to fight the order. On "Tucker Carlson Tonight," Kara Dansky, the chair of WoLF’s board of directors, argued that it’s unfair that men who identify as female get the same benefits as women under Title IX. "We think that 'women and girls' are a meaningful category worthy of civil rights protection," she said. "If we define sex, under Title IX, to mean gender identity, what we're essentially saying is that 'women and girl' can mean anyone who self-identifies as 'women and girl,' which makes the category 'women and girls' meaningless as a category." Dansky said that speaking out on this issue immediately makes you a target for hate. "We're called transphobic bigots because we ask questions about gender identity," Dansky said. "We're asking questions and we're standing up for women and girls. And that seems to be not permitted." Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

Two unlikely groups have teamed up to oppose former President Barack Obama's transgender bathroom mandate.

The Obama administration told public schools last year they had to allow anyone who identified as transgender to use the bathroom of their choice. If schools refused to enforce the rule, they would be denied federal funding.

The Family Policy Alliance, which is the public policy partner of the Christian conservative organization Focus on the Family, is working with a radical feminist group, the Women's Liberation Front (WoLF), to fight the order.

On "Tucker Carlson Tonight," Kara Dansky, the chair of WoLF’s board of directors, argued that it’s unfair that men who identify as female get the same benefits as women under Title IX.

"We think that 'women and girls' are a meaningful category worthy of civil rights protection," she said. "If we define sex, under Title IX, to mean gender identity, what we're essentially saying is that 'women and girl' can mean anyone who self-identifies as 'women and girl,' which makes the category 'women and girls' meaningless as a category."

Dansky said that speaking out on this issue immediately makes you a target for hate.

"We're called transphobic bigots because we ask questions about gender identity," Dansky said. "We're asking questions and we're standing up for women and girls. And that seems to be not permitted."

Watch more above, and let us know what you think in the comments.

O'Reilly Presses Trump on Travel Ban, Views on Putin in Super Bowl Interview

Trump Opens Up About Criticizing Obama to His Face at Inauguration

Report: Dems Trying to Paint Steve Bannon as a 'Scarier' Karl Rove

Hemmer Asks Conway What Trump Meant About Media Not Reporting Terror Attacks