Indigenous Advisory Council 'refreshed' with new membership



Indigenous Advisory Council 'refreshed' with new membership

Updated

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has shaken up his Indigenous Advisory Council (IAC), appointing Australian of the Year finalist Andrea Mason and Indigenous education leader Chris Sarra and ending speculation about the future of the controversial council.

Key points: Council will not have a chair so as to be more consultative

Mr Turnbull will informally meet with new members next week

Mr Mundine has not been formally told his position has not been extended

The Prime Minister has deliberately not appointed a chair and instead intends to create a consultative "two step" process which involves Indigenous Australians and re-sets the fragile relationship the Federal Government has had with the Indigenous leadership of this country.

The IAC, established by former prime minister Tony Abbott to advise the country's leader on Indigenous issues, had temporarily ceased to exist, but Cabinet has now reappointed new members hand-picked by Mr Turnbull.

The council has been "refreshed" with new membership as part of "the Government's ongoing commitment to closer engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people".

The Prime Minister has tried to put his own stamp with his appointments and deliberately established a process that incorporates a broader range of Indigenous voices and the grassroots community in a bid to re-establish the relationship and address concerns from Indigenous leaders that the Government was not consulting enough with Indigenous leaders.

The Prime Minister will informally meet the new members at a function on Monday night as part of the Closing the Gap week activities.

In a statement, the Prime Minister said the new council would play "an important role by engaging at the heart of Government, including with the Indigenous Policy Committee of Cabinet, collaborating with other Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders, and ensuring the Government is well positioned to renew the expiring Closing the Gap targets in the year ahead".

"The appointments reflect the expertise and innovation that exist in Indigenous Australia and we look forward to working with the new council to drive better outcomes for our First Australians."

Who are the new members?

New members that have been appointed for three years include:

Andrea Mason — CEO of the NPY Women's Council

Susan Murphy — CEO of Winun Ngari Aboriginal Corporation

Ngiare Brown — professor of Indigenous Health at the University of Wollongong

Roy Ah See — chair of the New South Wales Aboriginal Land Council

Chris Sarra — founder and chairman of the Stronger Smarter Institute

Djambawa Marawili — traditional owner from Baniyala

Only two members from Mr Abbott's council now remain on the council: Mr Marawili and deputy chair of the previous council, Ms Brown.

"All members of the council appointed today are highly respected in their chosen fields and bring strong practical policy knowledge," Mr Turnbull said in the statement.

"This will ensure the council is able to provide the Government with a range of advice to help deliver better outcomes in partnership with Indigenous people and communities.

"The council is expected to work with, and draw in, other Indigenous Australians to ensure the Government has advice from a range of stakeholders and communities."

Mundine thanked for service as chair

The Prime Minister said the Government had asked that the council continue to focus on its priorities of education, community safety and justice, and employment.

"We thank the members of the council who have served over the past three years, in particular Warren Mundine for his service as chair," the statement said.

"We look forward to continuing to work with the former council members, seeking their guidance, experience and expertise."

Former IAC head Mr Mundine was informed last week that his role and the body itself — established after the 2013 election — had been dissolved.

Mr Abbott last week tweeted his frustration that Mr Mundine had lost the job.

Mr Mundine received an email from the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet to inform him that all further meetings and activities had been cancelled, but was not informed by Mr Turnbull himself.

Mundine not formally told of plans

Mr Mundine has a scheduled meeting with Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion in coming days, but has still not been formally told that his position has not been extended.

In December, Mr Turnbull extended Mr Mundine's role as IAC chairman by one month, with the future of the body and the form it would take up in the air.

A spokesman for Mr Turnbull said in December: "The Government has committed to continuing the Indigenous Advisory Council and all existing council members' terms have been extended until January, 2017".

The National Congress of Australia's First Peoples' co-chairs, Rod Little and Jackie Huggins, have said only their organisation had the membership expertise and experience across all sectors to provide advice.

"Congress is and will be a much more valuable informant to the parliament than hand-picked individuals with lesser networks, knowledge or experience across matters impacting on our people on a daily basis," they said.

"We have within our membership, professionals, academics, trained and experienced persons and organisations and services; plus most importantly the beneficiaries of services who would in anyone's mind be the best sources to inform of the impacts of policies, programs and services.

They said the congress had always been willing to work with whichever party was in government, adding it had existed for a "number of years and will be for many more, it is time for genuine engagement with congress".

Topics: government-and-politics, federal-government, indigenous-policy, community-and-society, indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, australia

First posted