George Lopez Curses Out Audience Member Upset at Racially Insensitive Joke
George Lopez Curses Out Audience Member Upset at Racially Insensitive Joke
Comedian George Lopez was performing on Saturday night in Phoenix, when he launched into a racially-charged joke that upset a member of the audience. " Unsurprisingly, one audience member sitting near the stage didn't take too kindly to the funnyman's attempt at humor. She flipped him the middle finger, causing Lopez to go absolutely nuts. The show ground to a halt while he cursed her out repeatedly, before calling security to have her and her party escorted out. You can see the whole incident in the video above, courtesy of TMZ. As of Tuesday, Lopez remained unapologetic, despite widespread criticism. "You have two choices," he wrote on Twitter, referring to the incident, "have a good day or get the fuck out." You have 2 choices , have a good day or get the fuck out # People had a variety of reactions to Lopez' tantrum. Some were less upset over the joke than the berating of the woman in the audience that followed.  is canceled. it's not even the joke that pisses me off, it's the way he treated the lady in the crowd, lord https://t.co/ I'm not angry at the joke George Lopez made. I'm shocked by his response to a fan. Like your response shows your true character. Others were angry about both aspects, Lopez' joke his tantrum.  is trash, mad a black person did not find his racist joke funny enough to harass the person & shame them in front of And all cheering like that shit sweet. fuck George Lopez. https://t.co/ Still more people pointed out that colorism amongst Latinos has a very long history, of which Lopez' joke is just the latest iteration. If that George Lopez 'marry a black person' joke just now exposed u to the in Latino generations prior, u been living in a bubble 😭 Not the first time anti-blackness and have shown up in George Lopez's performances. To my memory, always targeted at women.

Comedian George Lopez was performing on Saturday night in Phoenix, when he launched into a racially-charged joke that upset a member of the audience. "There’s still two rules in the fucking Latino family," Lopez said. "Don’t marry somebody black, and don’t park in front of our house."

Unsurprisingly, one audience member sitting near the stage didn't take too kindly to the funnyman's attempt at humor. She flipped him the middle finger, causing Lopez to go absolutely nuts.

The show ground to a halt while he cursed her out repeatedly, before calling security to have her and her party escorted out. You can see the whole incident in the video above, courtesy of TMZ.

As of Tuesday, Lopez remained unapologetic, despite widespread criticism. "You have two choices," he wrote on Twitter, referring to the incident, "have a good day or get the fuck out."

You have 2 choices , have a good day or get the fuck out #gacho — George Lopez ( @georgelopez ) February 7, 2017

People had a variety of reactions to Lopez' tantrum. Some were less upset over the joke than the berating of the woman in the audience that followed.

george lopez is canceled. it's not even the joke that pisses me off, it's the way he treated the lady in the crowd, lord https://t.co/xA0r38IlaV — leya ( @jemberjuice ) February 8, 2017

I'm not angry at the joke George Lopez made. I'm shocked by his response to a fan. Like your response shows your true character. — Jade The Great ⚓️ ( @IAMJADETHEGREAT ) February 8, 2017

Others were angry about both aspects, Lopez' joke and his tantrum.

george lopez is trash, mad cus a black person did not find his racist joke funny enough to harass the person & shame them in front of every1 — a. ( @beypieces ) February 8, 2017

And mfs all cheering like that shit sweet. Nbs fuck George Lopez. https://t.co/gfexBMc7QC — Griffyn ( @tunisroyalty ) February 8, 2017

Still more people pointed out that colorism amongst Latinos has a very long history, of which Lopez' joke is just the latest iteration.

If that George Lopez 'marry a black person' joke just now exposed u to the colorism in Latino generations prior, u been living in a bubble 😭 — brybry ( @BryWorldNY ) February 8, 2017