Peace in Cyprus is possible. We Cypriots just have to decide to want it | Fadıl Ersözer

Contact author    re you from Greek Cyprus or Turkish Cyprus?” This a question that I frequently get asked in the UK. Despite the misconceptions, I oddly relish the one or two things known about Cyprus , other than halloumi/hellim cheese and Ayia Napa. When I say “I am from the north”, usually people are puzzled and more questions follow: “Are you Turkish citizens there?”, “Do you hold an EU passport?”, “How come?”, “Do Greeks and Turks still hate each other?” These conversations make me realise how my country’s unresolved conflict diffuses into my own life and defines who I am. Now there is an opportunity for change. The Cyprus peace talks between the Greek Cypriot leader Nicos Anastasiades and the Turkish Cypriot leader Mustafa Akıncı have gained significant momentum since the latter’s electoral victory in 2015. Hopes are renewed, 13 years since the failed referendum on another peace plan. It is the “last chance” according to Akıncı . Reconciliation is in sight, but is it within reach? Many Cypriots say “This time, it feels different” and I see reasons to share their optimism, albeit with some reservations. The progress of talks over the past 20 months has been remarkable: described as “unprecedented” by the UN secretary general’s special adviser on Cyprus, Espen Barth Eide. Similarly, in January of this year, the secretary general António Guterres said that “ We are very close to an arrangement ”. In Geneva, the two sides presented their respective maps for territorial re-adjustment within a united Cyprus. The international dimension of the Cyprus problem, particularly security and guarantees, has been under discussion between Cyprus’ guarantor powers – the UK, Turkey and Greece – and the two Cypriot sides. These big advances set a new threshold. Taboos are beginning to soften. The security regime set up in the 1960s has traditionally been a red line for Turkey and Turkish Cypriots. But this time Akıncı is more empathetic, saying that “Both parties should feel secure. Security of one should not be insecurity of the other.” Yet many contentious issues remain, among them Turkey’s future military presence on the island, the possibility of a rotating presidency and the final territorial readjustments. These cast a shadow over the prevailing optimism. In addition, Greek Cypriots announced that they will conduct further hydrocarbon exploration studies this year. Turkey and Turkish Cypriots are expected to follow suit. In 2014 this issue brought peace talks to a standstill. The Greek Cypriot presidential elections are set for 2018, with campaigning starting in a couple of months. If some of the sticking points in the negotiations are not resolved soon, talks may be put on ice once again. It is heartening that talks survived some recent deadlocks. If the leaders maintain their willingness and determination, it is likely that they will forge a deal. However, a successful peace deal and reconciliation in the island needs more than optimism. Reunification will bring the Turkish Cypriots out of their international isolation and help them to deal with the “bad governance” that bedevils the north. The Greek Cypriots will get some of their territory back, a considerable number of refugees will be able to return to their properties, and the majority of Turkish soldiers will leave the island. However, are Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots ready to give up their respective states in favour of federal statehood? Are they ready for reconciliation? And do they want it? The traditional obsession with a “comprehensive solution” and the “nothing is agreed until everything is agreed” principle has stifled cooperation between the two communities. The status quo of the past four decades has become their comfort zone. This is not to say that the two communities do not want a solution. Quite the opposite, there is strong popular support for the continuing peace talks. However, people in both communities would have been better prepared for power-sharing had some peace- and cooperation-promoting mechanisms been already implemented. Nevertheless, there are still reasons to be hopeful. The current talks are led by the respective leaders on the island. This is very much a “Cypriot process”, contrasting with the failed peace proposal in 2004, when the UN adopted a more hands-on approach, not least because of the imminent accession of the island to the EU. This time the peace process is better legitimised in the eyes of Cypriots, free(er) from the toxic effects of external patronage. One needs empathy, readiness and responsibility to reconcile. If these virtues finally prevail over our Cypriot self-images of victimhood and the ideas that “Stagnation is the solution” and “Look, nobody is dying now”, we will manage to forge a sustainable path for peace. Only then will the trauma of war cease to define our collective self, both north and south. Topics  Cyprus   Europe   Turkey   United Nations

“Are you from Greek Cyprus or Turkish Cyprus?” This a question that I frequently get asked in the UK. Despite the misconceptions, I oddly relish the one or two things known about Cyprus, other than halloumi/hellim cheese and Ayia Napa. When I say “I am from the north”, usually people are puzzled and more questions follow: “Are you Turkish citizens there?”, “Do you hold an EU passport?”, “How come?”, “Do Greeks and Turks still hate each other?” These conversations make me realise how my country’s unresolved conflict diffuses into my own life and defines who I am.

In Nicosia, the world’s last divided capital, a spirit of reconciliation is stirring across the fence Read more

Now there is an opportunity for change. The Cyprus peace talks between the Greek Cypriot leader Nicos Anastasiades and the Turkish Cypriot leader Mustafa Akıncı have gained significant momentum since the latter’s electoral victory in 2015. Hopes are renewed, 13 years since the failed referendum on another peace plan. It is the “last chance” according to Akıncı. Reconciliation is in sight, but is it within reach? Many Cypriots say “This time, it feels different” and I see reasons to share their optimism, albeit with some reservations.

The progress of talks over the past 20 months has been remarkable: described as “unprecedented” by the UN secretary general’s special adviser on Cyprus, Espen Barth Eide. Similarly, in January of this year, the secretary general António Guterres said that “We are very close to an arrangement”. In Geneva, the two sides presented their respective maps for territorial re-adjustment within a united Cyprus.

The international dimension of the Cyprus problem, particularly security and guarantees, has been under discussion between Cyprus’ guarantor powers – the UK, Turkey and Greece – and the two Cypriot sides. These big advances set a new threshold. Taboos are beginning to soften. The security regime set up in the 1960s has traditionally been a red line for Turkey and Turkish Cypriots. But this time Akıncı is more empathetic, saying that “Both parties should feel secure. Security of one should not be insecurity of the other.”

Yet many contentious issues remain, among them Turkey’s future military presence on the island, the possibility of a rotating presidency and the final territorial readjustments. These cast a shadow over the prevailing optimism. In addition, Greek Cypriots announced that they will conduct further hydrocarbon exploration studies this year. Turkey and Turkish Cypriots are expected to follow suit. In 2014 this issue brought peace talks to a standstill. The Greek Cypriot presidential elections are set for 2018, with campaigning starting in a couple of months. If some of the sticking points in the negotiations are not resolved soon, talks may be put on ice once again.

It is heartening that talks survived some recent deadlocks

It is heartening that talks survived some recent deadlocks. If the leaders maintain their willingness and determination, it is likely that they will forge a deal. However, a successful peace deal and reconciliation in the island needs more than optimism. Reunification will bring the Turkish Cypriots out of their international isolation and help them to deal with the “bad governance” that bedevils the north. The Greek Cypriots will get some of their territory back, a considerable number of refugees will be able to return to their properties, and the majority of Turkish soldiers will leave the island. However, are Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots ready to give up their respective states in favour of federal statehood? Are they ready for reconciliation? And do they want it?

The traditional obsession with a “comprehensive solution” and the “nothing is agreed until everything is agreed” principle has stifled cooperation between the two communities. The status quo of the past four decades has become their comfort zone. This is not to say that the two communities do not want a solution. Quite the opposite, there is strong popular support for the continuing peace talks. However, people in both communities would have been better prepared for power-sharing had some peace- and cooperation-promoting mechanisms been already implemented.

Nevertheless, there are still reasons to be hopeful. The current talks are led by the respective leaders on the island. This is very much a “Cypriot process”, contrasting with the failed peace proposal in 2004, when the UN adopted a more hands-on approach, not least because of the imminent accession of the island to the EU. This time the peace process is better legitimised in the eyes of Cypriots, free(er) from the toxic effects of external patronage.

One needs empathy, readiness and responsibility to reconcile. If these virtues finally prevail over our Cypriot self-images of victimhood and the ideas that “Stagnation is the solution” and “Look, nobody is dying now”, we will manage to forge a sustainable path for peace. Only then will the trauma of war cease to define our collective self, both north and south.