A Soldier Carried His Mother's Dead Body For 10 Hours Through Kashmir Snow To Lay Her To Rest
A Soldier Carried His Mother's Dead Body For 10 Hours Through Kashmir Snow To Lay Her To Rest
A Soldier Carried His Mother's Dead Body For 10 Hours Through Kashmir Snow To Lay Her To Rest A soldier in Kashmir recently trekked through thick snow in Kashmir with his mother's dead body so that he could bring her home, one last time. Mohammed Abbas, whose village was situated near the Line of Control, carried his mother on his shoulders along with a few other relatives. Abbas and his relatives trekked for over 10 hours in biting-cold snow and covered a distance of nearly 50 kilometres. It took him this long to reach his village because the connecting way from Kupwara to Karnah was covered in six feet of snow. Several villagers helped clear out the way for Abbas and enabled him to bring his mother home to lay her to rest. The 25-year-old Abbas, who's posted in Pathankot, lost his mother Sakeena Begum last week. He said that the local authorities had promised him a helicopter to carry his mom's corpse to his village. "It is very humiliating. I'm not able to give a decent burial to my mother. The administration kept us waiting with the body but they never sent the helicopter," he told NDTV. "It was a dangerous trek. We were stomping through snow with my mother's body. It's an avalanche-prone zone that we were moving through." Also read: One Soldier Killed, Eight Missing As Avalanche Hits Army Camp In Kashmir's Sonamarg At last, when Abbas reached his village, he performed his mother's last rites. Her funeral was attended by hundreds of villagers.

A soldier in Kashmir recently trekked through thick snow in Kashmir with his mother's dead body so that he could bring her home, one last time.

Mohammed Abbas, whose village was situated near the Line of Control, carried his mother on his shoulders along with a few other relatives.

ndtv

Abbas and his relatives trekked for over 10 hours in biting-cold snow and covered a distance of nearly 50 kilometres. It took him this long to reach his village because the connecting way from Kupwara to Karnah was covered in six feet of snow.

Several villagers helped clear out the way for Abbas and enabled him to bring his mother home to lay her to rest.

bccl

The 25-year-old Abbas, who's posted in Pathankot, lost his mother Sakeena Begum last week. He said that the local authorities had promised him a helicopter to carry his mom's corpse to his village.

ndtv

"It is very humiliating. I'm not able to give a decent burial to my mother. The administration kept us waiting with the body but they never sent the helicopter," he told NDTV. "It was a dangerous trek. We were stomping through snow with my mother's body. It's an avalanche-prone zone that we were moving through."

Also read: One Soldier Killed, Eight Missing As Avalanche Hits Army Camp In Kashmir's Sonamarg

At last, when Abbas reached his village, he performed his mother's last rites. Her funeral was attended by hundreds of villagers.

The Officials in the district of Kupwara denied Abbas's claims and said that they had provided his family with a helicopter and that they refused to fly due to the uncertainty of the weather. Abbas, however, refuted this and said, "We waited for four days hoping for some government help. This morning, officials in Kupwara refused to take our calls."

Watch the video here.