Equity 101: 3 Things Every Founder Needs To Know Before Giving Away A Piece Of Their Startup
Equity 101: 3 Things Every Founder Needs To Know Before Giving Away A Piece Of Their Startup
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Break The Future       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo courtesy of Life of Pix Equity is a powerful bargaining chip, especially for an early stage startup. But issuing stock can have unintended consequences that are not always obvious. To make smart decisions, founders need to think about how issuing equity can effect these three things: The amount of equity granted and the number of people receiving stock can have a lasting impact on a founder’s ability to run their company. It might be tempting to dole out stock to industry experts in exchange for much needed advice. But doing this too often may result in an unwieldy number of stockholders, which could lead to a loss of control over the company. How does issuing equity affect control? For most startups, each share of stock is entitled to one vote. Stockholders are required by law, and often by contract, to vote on certain key corporate actions. In the early stages, a simple majority can usually approve corporate actions. That means that a founder holding at least 51% of the startup’s voting stock controls the vote, which minimizes the burden of getting approval from additional stockholders. Seems simple enough. However, some transactions, like a merger or acquisition, may require approval from all or a super majority of stockholders. Acquirers, for example, may demand upwards of 90% stockholder consent to close the deal. If a founder has issued stock to hundreds of people, collecting signatures from all (or nearly all) of them is a big task! Not only that, but granting large blocks of stock to people whose incentives are misaligned with the company could cause a holdout situation or even kill the deal. For example, in an “acquihire” situation, minority stockholders may object to a deal in which they will receive nothing while the founders will receive lucrative compensation packages, since the acquirer is buying the startup primarily for the underlying talent. To avoid holdout problems and maintain control of the startup, founders should be stingy about how much equity they give out. When a startup gets to the financing stage, the game changes. Investors generally buy preferred stock, which comes with heightened voting and economic rights. One important economic right is a liquidation preference. This puts investors first in line to be paid in the event of a liquidation – like a sale or dissolution of the company — so it’s only after preferred stockholders get their preferences that the common stockholders can get paid. Relatively standard in today’s startup financings, in practice, a liquidation preference ensures that investors get the most money possible in an exit, even if that means that the common stockholders get nothing. For example, if a company raises $10M and then sells for $5M, all of the proceeds available for distribution after paying the company’s expenses and debts will go to the investors. Founders and employees, who often only hold common stock, would receive nothing in this scenario. The truth is, the less money a company takes in exchange for stock, the smaller the liquidation preference and the larger potential payoff to the founder in the event of a fire sale or winding down of the company. So remember: It’s ok to turn down cash! Dilution is what it sounds like: the decrease in a stockholder’s ownership percentage of a company that occurs when the company issues additional shares of stock. For example, a founder who holds 90 shares out of a total 100 shares owns 90% of the company. If an additional 900 shares are issued, the founder’s 90 shares now only represent 9% of the company (i.e. 90/1000). While this is a drastic example, dilution is inevitable for a growing company. Founders can actually limit dilution by controlling how many additional shares the company sells. Where this becomes complicated, though, is during early convertible note financings. Founders often take a huge dilution hit by undervaluing their company. This is why valuation caps (or the maximum value that the company may use in determining the price at which the investment will convert to stock) matter. Let’s say an angel investor offers a brand new company $500,000 for a convertible note with a $3M valuation cap. $500,000? Great! And at a $3M pre-money valuation? Seems reasonable for a company that just started. But let’s think this through. If the company has 10,000,000 shares of stock on a fully diluted basis (meaning all outstanding stock plus the stock plan reserve), then the conversion price per share would be $0.30 (i.e. the $3M cap divided by the 10M shares of stock). That means the investor would get about 1,666,666 shares for $500K, or approximately 14% of the company, assuming no other stock is being issued. So the company has barely started and the founder has already given away approximately 14% — and there are still employees to hire, additional funds to raise and strategic advisors to engage. With 14% gone at the beginning, the founder’s slice of the pie is shrinking fast. However, if that same note had a $6M valuation cap, then the conversion price per share would be $0.60 ($6M cap divided by the 10M shares of stock), resulting in half the amount of dilution. Though it may be hard to grasp the true value of a company in the early stages, founders need to be forward thinking and negotiate valuation caps based on where they expect their company to be when the note converts in 1 to 2 years. It’s important to be realistic but equally important to believe in the company’s potential.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Equity is a powerful bargaining chip, especially for an early stage startup. But issuing stock can have unintended consequences that are not always obvious. To make smart decisions, founders need to think about how issuing equity can effect these three things:

1. Stockholder voting rights.

The amount of equity granted and the number of people receiving stock can have a lasting impact on a founder’s ability to run their company. It might be tempting to dole out stock to industry experts in exchange for much needed advice. But doing this too often may result in an unwieldy number of stockholders, which could lead to a loss of control over the company.

How does issuing equity affect control? For most startups, each share of stock is entitled to one vote. Stockholders are required by law, and often by contract, to vote on certain key corporate actions. In the early stages, a simple majority can usually approve corporate actions. That means that a founder holding at least 51% of the startup’s voting stock controls the vote, which minimizes the burden of getting approval from additional stockholders.

Seems simple enough. However, some transactions, like a merger or acquisition, may require approval from all or a super majority of stockholders. Acquirers, for example, may demand upwards of 90% stockholder consent to close the deal. If a founder has issued stock to hundreds of people, collecting signatures from all (or nearly all) of them is a big task!

Not only that, but granting large blocks of stock to people whose incentives are misaligned with the company could cause a holdout situation or even kill the deal. For example, in an “acquihire” situation, minority stockholders may object to a deal in which they will receive nothing while the founders will receive lucrative compensation packages, since the acquirer is buying the startup primarily for the underlying talent.

To avoid holdout problems and maintain control of the startup, founders should be stingy about how much equity they give out.

2. Liquidation preferences

When a startup gets to the financing stage, the game changes. Investors generally buy preferred stock, which comes with heightened voting and economic rights. One important economic right is a liquidation preference. This puts investors first in line to be paid in the event of a liquidation – like a sale or dissolution of the company — so it’s only after preferred stockholders get their preferences that the common stockholders can get paid.

Relatively standard in today’s startup financings, in practice, a liquidation preference ensures that investors get the most money possible in an exit, even if that means that the common stockholders get nothing. For example, if a company raises $10M and then sells for $5M, all of the proceeds available for distribution after paying the company’s expenses and debts will go to the investors. Founders and employees, who often only hold common stock, would receive nothing in this scenario.

The truth is, the less money a company takes in exchange for stock, the smaller the liquidation preference and the larger potential payoff to the founder in the event of a fire sale or winding down of the company. So remember: It’s ok to turn down cash!

3. Dilution

Dilution is what it sounds like: the decrease in a stockholder’s ownership percentage of a company that occurs when the company issues additional shares of stock. For example, a founder who holds 90 shares out of a total 100 shares owns 90% of the company. If an additional 900 shares are issued, the founder’s 90 shares now only represent 9% of the company (i.e. 90/1000). While this is a drastic example, dilution is inevitable for a growing company.

Founders can actually limit dilution by controlling how many additional shares the company sells. Where this becomes complicated, though, is during early convertible note financings. Founders often take a huge dilution hit by undervaluing their company. This is why valuation caps (or the maximum value that the company may use in determining the price at which the investment will convert to stock) matter.

Let’s say an angel investor offers a brand new company $500,000 for a convertible note with a $3M valuation cap. $500,000? Great! And at a $3M pre-money valuation? Seems reasonable for a company that just started. But let’s think this through.

If the company has 10,000,000 shares of stock on a fully diluted basis (meaning all outstanding stock plus the stock plan reserve), then the conversion price per share would be $0.30 (i.e. the $3M cap divided by the 10M shares of stock). That means the investor would get about 1,666,666 shares for $500K, or approximately 14% of the company, assuming no other stock is being issued.

So the company has barely started and the founder has already given away approximately 14% — and there are still employees to hire, additional funds to raise and strategic advisors to engage. With 14% gone at the beginning, the founder’s slice of the pie is shrinking fast.

However, if that same note had a $6M valuation cap, then the conversion price per share would be $0.60 ($6M cap divided by the 10M shares of stock), resulting in half the amount of dilution.

Though it may be hard to grasp the true value of a company in the early stages, founders need to be forward thinking and negotiate valuation caps based on where they expect their company to be when the note converts in 1 to 2 years. It’s important to be realistic but equally important to believe in the company’s potential.