Red Velvet Earns Second No. 1 on World Albums With 'Rookie'
Red Velvet Earns Second No. 1 on World Albums With 'Rookie'
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Red Velvet Earns Second No. 1 on World Albums With 'Rookie'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Red Velvet Â isÂ no "rookie" when it comes to the charts: The girl group just earned their second No. 1 on 's World Album chart Â which ties the quintetÂ for most chart-toppers among female K-pop artists. is the new EP from the outfitÂ that debuts atop World Albums, marking their second chart-topping effort after their full-length albumÂ debuted at No. 1 in September 2015. It alsoÂ marks their best debut sales week sinceÂ . To date though, theirÂ best sales week overall is from even earlier in 2015 when the ladies released theirÂ EP, selling a bit more than their past efforts despite it peaking at No. 2 on World Albums.  The new EP favors more ofÂ an R&B flavor for Red Velvet -- whose namesake representsÂ their pop-leaning RedÂ and R&B-focused Velvet sides -- with "Rookie" being a quirky, funk-driven dance track with an unforgettable earworm of a hook. But fans get a deeper exploration into Red Velvet's take on R&B on the six-track set, best representedÂ with the snappy "Talk to Me" with its fascinating blend ofÂ warpedÂ vocals over the production that wouldn't be out of place on anÂ early Ariana Grande album. Though perhaps most notably,Â also stands out forÂ seeing the girls goÂ deeper and more matureÂ in their emotions, begging a lover to connect with them on tracks like "Little Little" and the icy, synth-y standout "Body Talk." Red Velvet having a pair ofÂ No. 1s on World Albums puts them in an elite class of K-pop acts with multiple chart-toppers on the ranking thatÂ currentlyÂ includes Girls' Generation , BTS , EXO , G-Dragon , SHINee , f(x) , and Girls' Generation-TTS (who all have two), along with GOT7 (with three), and B.A.P (who have four). This also means that less than three years into their careers, Red Velvet has already tied their seniors Girls' Generation,Â f(x), and TTS for most No. 1s among female acts. Notably, all four acts are under the same label, Korea's biggest pop agency SM Entertainment.  Red Velvet's latest also charts respectably on Heatseekers Albums atÂ No. 21, their second-highest appearance on the tally following 's No. 18 peak in September 2016. Meanwhile, the EP's lead single "Rookie" starts at No. 6 onÂ the World Digital Songs Sales chart and is the third-biggest selling K-pop song in America this week.Â The song "Russian Roulette" is their highest-charting song on World Digital Song Sales when it peaked at No. 2. Watch the ladies bring "Little Little" to life below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Red VelvetÂ isÂ no "rookie" when it comes to the charts: The girl group just earned their second No. 1 on Billboard's World Album chartÂ which ties the quintetÂ for most chart-toppers among female K-pop artists.

RookieÂ is the new EP from the outfitÂ that debuts atop World Albums, marking their second chart-topping effort after their full-length albumÂ The Red debuted at No. 1 in September 2015. It alsoÂ marks their best debut sales week sinceÂ The Red. To date though, theirÂ best sales week overall is from even earlier in 2015 when the ladies released theirÂ Ice Cream: The 1st Mini Album EP, selling a bit more than their past efforts despite it peaking at No. 2 on World Albums.

The new EP favors more ofÂ an R&B flavor for Red Velvet -- whose namesake representsÂ their pop-leaning RedÂ and R&B-focused Velvet sides -- with "Rookie" being a quirky, funk-driven dance track with an unforgettable earworm of a hook. But fans get a deeper exploration into Red Velvet's take on R&B on the six-track set, best representedÂ with the snappy "Talk to Me" with its fascinating blend ofÂ warpedÂ vocals over the production that wouldn't be out of place on anÂ early Ariana Grande album. Though perhaps most notably,Â RookieÂ also stands out forÂ seeing the girls goÂ deeper and more matureÂ in their emotions, begging a lover to connect with them on tracks like "Little Little" and the icy, synth-y standout "Body Talk."

Red Velvet having a pair ofÂ No. 1s on World Albums puts them in an elite class of K-pop acts with multiple chart-toppers on the ranking thatÂ currentlyÂ includes Girls' Generation, BTS, EXO, G-Dragon, SHINee, f(x), and Girls' Generation-TTS (who all have two), along with GOT7 (with three), and B.A.P (who have four). This also means that less than three years into their careers, Red Velvet has already tied their seniors Girls' Generation,Â f(x), and TTS for most No. 1s among female acts. Notably, all four acts are under the same label, Korea's biggest pop agency SM Entertainment.

Red Velvet's latest also charts respectably on Heatseekers Albums atÂ No. 21, their second-highest appearance on the tally following Russian Roulette's No. 18 peak in September 2016. Meanwhile, the EP's lead single "Rookie" starts at No. 6 onÂ the World Digital Songs Sales chart and is the third-biggest selling K-pop song in America this week.Â The song "Russian Roulette" is their highest-charting song on World Digital Song Sales when it peaked at No. 2.

Watch the ladies bring "Little Little" to life below: