Supreme Court Unhappy As Govt Wants More Time To Complete Fencing Of Bangladesh Border
Supreme Court Unhappy As Govt Wants More Time To Complete Fencing Of Bangladesh Border
Supreme Court Unhappy As Govt Wants More Time To Complete Fencing Of Bangladesh Border The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its displeasure over the government’s response to an order to fence the . A government affidavit has sought more time to complete the task, citing lack of data on the riverine stretches to explain why it had so far failed to carry out the court order. Justices Ranjan Gogoi and RF Nariman, who were hearing the matter, took a dim view of the affidavit and said it was vague and was, in fact, a whole lot of filibustering. The affidavit stated that the government needed 18 more months to complete the task on a 13-km land stretch of the total 263 km. Work on the entire stretch could take till 2020 to complete, it said. The government is still awaiting data on the riverine stretches, the affidavit said. The BJP had made illegal migration from Bangladesh into Assam a major election issue before it came to power.

The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its displeasure over the government’s response to an order to fence the India-Bangladesh border to keep out illegal immigrants.

AFP

A government affidavit has sought more time to complete the task, citing lack of data on the riverine stretches to explain why it had so far failed to carry out the court order. Justices Ranjan Gogoi and RF Nariman, who were hearing the matter, took a dim view of the affidavit and said it was vague and was, in fact, a whole lot of filibustering.

AFP

The affidavit stated that the government needed 18 more months to complete the task on a 13-km land stretch of the total 263 km. Work on the entire stretch could take till 2020 to complete, it said. The government is still awaiting data on the riverine stretches, the affidavit said.

The BJP had made illegal migration from Bangladesh into Assam a major election issue before it came to power.

Originally published in Times of India