President Trump: I Get 4 to 5 Hours of Sleep
President Trump: I Get 4 to 5 Hours of Sleep
Shares               Is President Donald Trump the nation's workaholic in chief? Judging by his sleeping habits, he may have a rightful claim to that title. "I am working long hours, long hours, and right up till 12:00 a.m. or 1:00 a.m.," Trump, 70, told Fox News' Bill O'Reilly during an interview on "The O'Reilly Factor" that aired Tuesday night. He told the host of "The O'Reilly Factor" that he wakes up at 5 a.m., meaning he gets four to five hours of sleep -- far less than the seven to nine hours of sleep the Mayo Clinc recommends. And always the multitasker, Trump said of his breakfast routine, "While I eat, I read the papers, I see what's going on television." Not missing an opportunity to slam the media, Trump added about his TV viewing, "I take a look. I see the lies ... I call it, you know, fake news ... The level of dishonesty, where they will take a story that should be good. I know good from bad. They will take something that should be a good story — in fact, sometimes I say, 'This is going to be nice to read," I say, 'Whoa,' and they will purposely totally change it. It's fake news."  Shares                  President Trump: I Get 4 to 5 Hours of Sleep   ICE Says Arrests in Surge Actions Not Linked to Trump Order   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   Decision Scorecard: Who Came Out on Top in the Travel Ban Ruling   Key Takeaways from Ruling on Trump's Immigration Order   Trump Considers 'Brand New' Executive Order After Court Setback   Virginia Adds Another Challenge to Travel Ban   Trump: 'Good Chemistry' With Japan’s Leader, 'Getting Along Very Well' With China   Rosie O'Donnell Will Not Play Steve Bannon on 'SNL' -- This Weekend, Her Rep Says   Trump Vows to Unveil 'Additional Security' After Slamming Court Ruling as 'Disgraceful'   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   The Note: The Kerfuffle Over the Court’s Decision   Inside Trump's Relationship With Japanese Prime Minister Abe   Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed   Powerful Quake Kills at Least 6 in Southern Philippines   Obama Hires Agency for Speaking Gigs, Lawyers for Book Deals

Is President Donald Trump the nation's workaholic in chief?

Judging by his sleeping habits, he may have a rightful claim to that title.

"I am working long hours, long hours, and right up till 12:00 a.m. or 1:00 a.m.," Trump, 70, told Fox News' Bill O'Reilly during an interview on "The O'Reilly Factor" that aired Tuesday night.

He told the host of "The O'Reilly Factor" that he wakes up at 5 a.m., meaning he gets four to five hours of sleep -- far less than the seven to nine hours of sleep the Mayo Clinc recommends.

And always the multitasker, Trump said of his breakfast routine, "While I eat, I read the papers, I see what's going on television."

Not missing an opportunity to slam the media, Trump added about his TV viewing, "I take a look. I see the lies ... I call it, you know, fake news ... The level of dishonesty, where they will take a story that should be good. I know good from bad. They will take something that should be a good story — in fact, sometimes I say, 'This is going to be nice to read," I say, 'Whoa,' and they will purposely totally change it. It's fake news."