PM Modi Tells Parliament That Demonetisation Was Like A Surgery On A Healthy Body
PM Modi Tells Parliament That Demonetisation Was Like A Surgery On A Healthy Body
PM Modi Tells Parliament That Demonetisation Was Like A Surgery On A Healthy Body Prime Minister Narendra Modi, once again defended demonetisation in the Parliament, saying that it was a necessary step taken at the right time. Calling country's economy healthy, Modi said that the ban on Rs 500 and 1,000 notes could not have come at a better time. "When can you have an operation? When the body is healthy. The economy was doing well and thus our decision was taken at the right time." In a reply, to a motion of thanks to the President's address at the start of the Budget session, PM attacked at Opposition for criticising the notes ban. He said that his decision of demonetisation was a well-thought one and it did not go wrong. "Nothing was done in haste. To understand that you will need to study Modi." The ban, he said, was timed to coincide with the slump that follows a peak in trade during the Diwali festival. "We calculated that this would be the least disruptive time and the maximum impact would be over within 50 days. Our calculation was accurate," the Prime Minister said. H said, He was asked, why he had made the sudden decision to scrap high-value notes when "things were going fine." It was a preventive step at a time when the economy was resilient, the PM said, asserting, "for demonetisation, this was the most opportune time. India could handle it best at this time." The Congress' Mallikarjun Kharge had on Monday demanded that PM Modi apologise for the notes ban, which he said had caused people untold misery. Mr Kharge was supported by leaders of other opposition parties. He said the notes ban has cleansed India. "Like Swachh Bharat, the decision on demonetisation is a movement to clean India (from corruption and black money)."

Prime Minister Narendra Modi, once again defended demonetisation in the Parliament, saying that it was a necessary step taken at the right time. Calling country's economy healthy, Modi said that the ban on Rs 500 and 1,000 notes could not have come at a better time.

LSTV

"When can you have an operation? When the body is healthy. The economy was doing well and thus our decision was taken at the right time."

In a reply, to a motion of thanks to the President's address at the start of the Budget session, PM attacked at Opposition for criticising the notes ban.

He said that his decision of demonetisation was a well-thought one and it did not go wrong.

"Nothing was done in haste. To understand that you will need to study Modi." The ban, he said, was timed to coincide with the slump that follows a peak in trade during the Diwali festival. "We calculated that this would be the least disruptive time and the maximum impact would be over within 50 days. Our calculation was accurate," the Prime Minister said.

Indiatoday

H said, He was asked, why he had made the sudden decision to scrap high-value notes when "things were going fine." It was a preventive step at a time when the economy was resilient, the PM said, asserting, "for demonetisation, this was the most opportune time. India could handle it best at this time."

The Congress' Mallikarjun Kharge had on Monday demanded that PM Modi apologise for the notes ban, which he said had caused people untold misery. Mr Kharge was supported by leaders of other opposition parties.

He said the notes ban has cleansed India. "Like Swachh Bharat, the decision on demonetisation is a movement to clean India (from corruption and black money)."