UCLA Bruins commit LaMelo Ball, brother of Lonzo Ball, scores 92 in high school game
Lonzo Ball's brother nets 92 in high school game
Lonzo Ball's brother nets 92 in high school game Saint Mary's stands in the way of Gonzaga's perfect season Washington suspends Dime for slapping heckler Louisville PG Snider (hip) set to return vs. Miami Fultz sits for Washington due to knee soreness Pinson returns with 6 points in Tar Heels' loss Central Michigan's Keene plays into Wooden mix Saint Louis loses game, then bus; driver arrested Weekend Picks: Gonzaga remains perfect with win at Saint Mary's Lonzo Ball's effort makes anything seem possible for UCLA UCLA relies on breathtaking offense late in win over Oregon Grayson Allen is happy, and that's good news for Duke Duke announces its return with a marquee win over the Tar Heels Think Lonzo Ball is great? Meet his two UCLA-bound brothers A Duke-UNC friendship? It's true for Grayson Allen, Joel Berry II VCU has created its own luck NCAA agrees to $209M scholarships settlement 4OT South Carolina-Alabama battle proves SEC is the game's real wild child True or false: College basketball's most important questions answered Chino Hills (California) High School's LaMelo Ball, the younger brother of UCLA's Lonzo Ball, had a game to remember, putting up 92 points on 37-of-61 shooting from the field. (0:57) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Basketball recruiting insider. Joined ESPN in 2014. Graduate of University of Delaware. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Lonzo Ball has some competition in his own family. LaMelo Ball , the younger brother of the UCLA star freshman, scored 92 points on Tuesday night for Chino Hills (California) High School in a 146-123 win over Los Osos. LaMelo Ball was 37-for-61 from the field and made only seven 3-pointers. The five-star sophomore went 30-for-39 from 2-point range. Ball told ESPN's Myron Medcalf that his performance was dedicated to a classmate, Lexi, who is in the hospital. His teammates, aware of the situation, encouraged him to keep shooting as the points piled up, Ball said. According to his father, Ball had 29 points at halftime. "And then he went crazy," Lavar Ball told ESPN. "I unleashed him." Before Tuesday's win over Los Osos, Chino Hills suffered its first loss in 61 games over the weekend to Oak Hill Academy (Virginia). Lonzo Ball tweeted, "That's one way to bounce back after a loss." Well I mean that's one way to bounce back after a loss... I see you lil bro 9️⃣2️⃣ — Lonzo Ball (@ZO2_) February 8, 2017 "My boys get mad when they lose," Lavar Ball said. "[LaMelo] started on fire. Just attacking the rim. They tried to double- and triple-team him after he scored 45." LaMelo Ball scored 41 of his 92 points in the fourth quarter. Not everybody was happy with the performance. Los Osos coach Dave Smith called it "a joke," according to the Los Angeles Times. According to the Times, Smith said Chino Hills players fouled on purpose to prevent his team from running out the clock and stopping Ball from scoring more. "That's wrong," Smith said, according to the newspaper. "It goes against everything CIF [California Interscholastic Federation] stands for. The Ball boys are very talented and great players, but it's embarrassing to high school athletics. I've been coaching for 35 years, and we've turned high school athletics into individualism. "It's amazing to watch a kid score that many points. But it's tough to say that's what CIF athletics is about." "He loves to score," Lavar Ball said. "That's the type of things he's going to do next year on a daily basis. It's easy for him. He finally got to play his game." The Ball family's middle brother, LiAngelo Ball , is sitting out the next couple of weeks for Chino Hills to rest for the playoffs, giving LaMelo more freedom in the offense. LiAngelo scored 72 points in a game earlier this season. Both LiAngelo, a senior, and LaMelo are committed to UCLA. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Chino Hills (California) High School's LaMelo Ball, the younger brother of UCLA's Lonzo Ball, had a game to remember, putting up 92 points on 37-of-61 shooting from the field. (0:57)

Lonzo Ball has some competition in his own family.

LaMelo Ball, the younger brother of the UCLA star freshman, scored 92 points on Tuesday night for Chino Hills (California) High School in a 146-123 win over Los Osos.

LaMelo Ball was 37-for-61 from the field and made only seven 3-pointers. The five-star sophomore went 30-for-39 from 2-point range.

Ball told ESPN's Myron Medcalf that his performance was dedicated to a classmate, Lexi, who is in the hospital.

His teammates, aware of the situation, encouraged him to keep shooting as the points piled up, Ball said.

According to his father, Ball had 29 points at halftime.

"And then he went crazy," Lavar Ball told ESPN. "I unleashed him."

Before Tuesday's win over Los Osos, Chino Hills suffered its first loss in 61 games over the weekend to Oak Hill Academy (Virginia).

Lonzo Ball tweeted, "That's one way to bounce back after a loss."

Well I mean that's one way to bounce back after a loss... I see you lil bro 9️⃣2️⃣ — Lonzo Ball (@ZO2_) February 8, 2017

"My boys get mad when they lose," Lavar Ball said. "[LaMelo] started on fire. Just attacking the rim. They tried to double- and triple-team him after he scored 45."

LaMelo Ball scores 92 for Chino Hills Five-star high school sophomore LaMelo Ball, the younger brother of UCLA's Lonzo Ball, scored 92 points for Chino Hills (California) High School on Tuesday night in a 146-123 win over Los Osos. Ball, the No. 16 recruit in the 2019 ESPN 100, committed to UCLA in August 2015. LaMelo Ball vs. Los Osos 2-pt FG 30-39 3-pt FG 7-22 FT 11-14

LaMelo Ball scored 41 of his 92 points in the fourth quarter.

Not everybody was happy with the performance.

Los Osos coach Dave Smith called it "a joke," according to the Los Angeles Times. According to the Times, Smith said Chino Hills players fouled on purpose to prevent his team from running out the clock and stopping Ball from scoring more.

"That's wrong," Smith said, according to the newspaper. "It goes against everything CIF [California Interscholastic Federation] stands for. The Ball boys are very talented and great players, but it's embarrassing to high school athletics. I've been coaching for 35 years, and we've turned high school athletics into individualism.

"It's amazing to watch a kid score that many points. But it's tough to say that's what CIF athletics is about."

Editor's Picks Think Lonzo Ball is great? Meet his two UCLA-bound brothers No one saw this kind of season coming from UCLA's Lonzo Ball except his father. Lavar Ball has two more sons committed to the Bruins, which means a Ball could be wearing blue and gold until 2020.

"He loves to score," Lavar Ball said. "That's the type of things he's going to do next year on a daily basis. It's easy for him. He finally got to play his game."

The Ball family's middle brother, LiAngelo Ball, is sitting out the next couple of weeks for Chino Hills to rest for the playoffs, giving LaMelo more freedom in the offense.

LiAngelo scored 72 points in a game earlier this season.

Both LiAngelo, a senior, and LaMelo are committed to UCLA.