Sinkholes explained: How are they caused and what are the warning signs?



Sinkholes explained: How are they caused and what are the warning signs?

Updated

A backyard in Queensland, a bustling Japanese street, and now one near Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's house — sinkholes appear in peculiar places, and each time they do we stare in disbelief, wondering "how on Earth did that happen?"

Well, here's why:

What causes them?

The cause of a sinkhole is fairly straightforward. It's the stuff immediately below the surface shifting to somewhere else.

A sinkhole can range anywhere between a slight depression in the ground right up to an enormous hole reaching down half a kilometre. The world's deepest sinkhole is in Chongquig, China, reaching down 662 metres.

They have no natural surface drainage, so any water that gets into a sinkhole can't get out via the surface — and so usually drains downward, into the subsurface layers.

What causes the shift?

Here's where it gets a little more in-depth.

There are three main situations that cause sinkholes:

If the rocks below the surface are made of materials that dissolve in water, such as limestone or gypsum. Over hundreds or thousands of years, the water trapped beneath the surface causes natural underground currents that dissolve the rocks and forge chasms under the ground. The top of the chasm gradually grows towards the surface and, eventually, the surface layer gets thinner and thinner until it becomes too weak to support what is above it and falls in. Photo: A giant sinkhole in Guatemala swallowed a three-storey building. (Reuters: Casa Presidencial)

When the rock under the surface doesn't dissolve in water, but instead is made of grains that are small enough to be carried away by underground water currents. In Guatemala City, where a three-story building vanished into the sinkhole, the underlying rock was predominantly weak crumbly volcanic rock, fine ash and other debris that had erupted from a volcano.

The third situation has nothing to do with underground water currents, it's all about water movements above-ground. They are triggered by intense rainstorms or floods, and burst or long-term leakage from sewer or storm-water pipes.

In all these cases, the water can't go where it used to, so it finds a new path.

Where do sinkholes form?

Sinkholes form mainly in limestone.

Limestone areas in a tropical, moist climate are much more likely to form sinkholes than those in dry climates. So because of the dry conditions in Australia, we don't often see sinkholes forming here.

"In Australia, the place where we have lots of limestone is the Nullarbor Plains, but that is basically in the desert," geologist Dr Marita Bradshaw said.

"The more rapid formation in the tropical environments is where you're more likely to get rapid sinkholes breaking through."

Its believed some of the world's largest sinkholes have been exacerbated by mining activity.

But these are not a big issue in Australia, says Professor Osborne Armstrong, who has studied caves in eastern Australia and Sri Lanka.

However, it's believed an abandoned mine might have been to blame for a sinkhole filled with swirling water that opened up in the backyard in Ipswich, west of Brisbane last year.

What are the warning signs?

In many cases sinkholes don't form suddenly — they build up slowly over many months or years.

Its the last stage, when the formation of the hole or basin is at the very surface, that's sudden.

Here are signs that might indicated you have a slow-burning sinkhole on your hands:

Fresh cracks in the foundations of houses and buildings

Cracks in interior walls

Cracks in the ground outside

Depressions in the ground

Trees or fence posts that tilt or fall

Doors or windows become difficult to open or close

Rapid appearance of a hole in the ground

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, accidents, emergency-incidents, earth-sciences, australia

First posted