Baylor won’t get 25 percent of its Big 12 revenue until it proves to be Title IX compliant

The Big 12 board of directors voted unanimously on Wednesday to withhold 25 percent of Baylor University’s future revenue distribution payments, pending an independent investigation meant to verify the school’s structural changes following the sexual assault scandal that uprooted its athletic department and football program last year. “The Board is unified in establishing a process to verify that proper institutional controls are in place and sustainable,” Oklahoma President and Big 12 board chairman David Boren said in a press statement . “By taking these actions the Board desires to ensure that the changes that were promised are actually made and that systems are in place to avoid future problems.”   The independent review is meant to confirm Baylor’s compliance with conference regulations and Title IX guidelines, both of which came under fire during the past year after reports surfaced that alleged several top Baylor officials “either failed to investigate, or adequately investigate, allegations of sexual violence.” As a result of the scandal, the school parted ways with coach Art Briles, president Ken Starr, athletic director Ian McCaw and other staff. If the independent review finds Baylor’s program changes sufficient, the school will be eligible to receive the payment, which will be held in escrow, according to USA Today . The exact amount being withheld will become clear in June when the Big 12 generally announces its revenue distributions from the previous school year. It will undoubtedly total in the millions, however, considering the school made $30 million in Big 12 revenue distributions last season. That number is not likely to drop.



The scandal could prove costly, and not just to Baylor’s reputation. (Robert Rogers/Baylor University Marketing & Communications via AP)

The Big 12 board of directors voted unanimously on Wednesday to withhold 25 percent of Baylor University’s future revenue distribution payments, pending an independent investigation meant to verify the school’s structural changes following the sexual assault scandal that uprooted its athletic department and football program last year.

“The Board is unified in establishing a process to verify that proper institutional controls are in place and sustainable,” Oklahoma President and Big 12 board chairman David Boren said in a press statement. “By taking these actions the Board desires to ensure that the changes that were promised are actually made and that systems are in place to avoid future problems.”

[Another awful look for Baylor: Football team’s strength coach busted in prostitution sting]

The independent review is meant to confirm Baylor’s compliance with conference regulations and Title IX guidelines, both of which came under fire during the past year after reports surfaced that alleged several top Baylor officials “either failed to investigate, or adequately investigate, allegations of sexual violence.”

As a result of the scandal, the school parted ways with coach Art Briles, president Ken Starr, athletic director Ian McCaw and other staff.

If the independent review finds Baylor’s program changes sufficient, the school will be eligible to receive the payment, which will be held in escrow, according to USA Today.

The exact amount being withheld will become clear in June when the Big 12 generally announces its revenue distributions from the previous school year. It will undoubtedly total in the millions, however, considering the school made $30 million in Big 12 revenue distributions last season. That number is not likely to drop.