Poll shows Le Pen winning French presidential first round
Poll shows Le Pen winning the first round of French presidential vote


A daily opinion poll has suggested that Marine Le Pen will WIN the first round of voting when France goes to the polls.

However, the publication continued to show the far-right leader ultimately losing the French presidential runoff on May 7.

Even though Le Pen looks certain to reach the head-to-head second round, all opinion polls show she will be soundly beaten by whoever she faces, with independent centrist Emmanuel Macron currently in pole position to defeat her.

This year's election will take place in two rounds on April 23 and May 7, and although Le Pen is expected to top the first poll, anyone facing her in May's runoff is expected to cruise to an easy victory with about 60 to 70 percent of votes.

A daily opinion poll has suggested that Marine Le Pen will WIN the first round of voting when France goes to the polls

Marine Le Pen is currently the most popular politician in France, but the way the French presidential election works, she is unlikely to end up in the Élysée Palace

Francois Fillon (pictured, right) is a former prime minister who is married to Welsh-born Penelope Clarke (left) but he has questions to ask about the 7,000 euros a month salary he paid her to be his parliamentary assistant

The Opinionway poll showed Le Pen scoring 25 percent in a first-round vote set for April 23, with independent Emmanuel Macron on 22 percent and conservative Francois Fillon on 20 - scores that would put Macron into the runoff against Le Pen.

Under the French system, only two candidates make it into the second round of the presidential election, and Ms Le Pen is expected to be defeated ultimately by her rival.

Macron would beat Le Pen 66 percent to 34 percent in the two-way runoff, the opinion poll suggested.

Macron, an ex-member of the Socialist Party and a former economy minister who is running as an independent, is seen as a fresh face with new ideas who is appealing to many voters.

Fillon, were he to make it instead of Macron, would beat Le Pen with a score of 62 percent versus her 38 percent.

The maverick: Emmanuel Macron (pictured, right, with Germany's Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel) is aiming to become the first independent to be elected France's President since 1920

Benoit Hamon (pictured), was only chosen to be the Socialist candidate at the end of January and may have too much ground to catch up Le Pen, Fillon and Macron and make it into the second round

If Fillon, who has been hit by allegations that he paid his Welsh wife Penelope a handsome salary to be his parliamentary assistant, makes it through to the second round most Socialists are expected to vote for him as the lesser of two evils.

A second IFOP rolling poll of voting intentions showed Le Pen garnering 26 percent of the vote in the April 23 first round, up 0.5 percent since Monday, while Macron would get 21 percent, also up 0.5 percent.

Le Pen, has promised to dump the euro and hold a Brexit-style referendum, and one of her senior aides has admitted the far-right leader would consider imposing a Donald Trump-style travel ban if elected.

In 2002 Ms Le Pen's father Jean-Marie, who founded the National Front, made it into the second round, pipping the Socialist Lionel Jospin, but was thrashed by 82 percent to 17 percent by conservative Jacques Chirac, who garnered support from many on the Left.