New L Alert: Tyga Sued for Allegedly Ordering Crew to Beat up Process Server
New L Alert: Tyga Sued for Allegedly Ordering Crew to Beat up Process Server
Tyga is at the center of another lawsuit, this time accused of letting members of his team "assault" a process server who was attempting to serve papers related to a previous suit. The server alleges Tyga's crew "beat" him at Penthouse nightclub last November after he presented the G.O.O.D. Music affiliate with legal documents,  reported Tuesday. The suit claims the process server was "grabbed, yanked, pulled, and choked" by a member of Tyga's entourage after Tyga himself gave the go-ahead. According to , the process server's suit also refers to Tyga as a "minor 'celebrity'" whose social life has eclipsed his music career. Tyga was entering Penthouse for a birthday throwdown when, according to 's original report of the incident from November, the server was "unceremoniously and forcibly removed" from the premises. Here's video of the encounter, for those with a shitty memory: But Tyga's birthday wasn't doom and gloom. Kylie Jenner shared a pair of intimate Instagram posts in honor of the big day, declaring Tyga "irreplaceable." happy birthday baby 💋 A photo posted by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 19, 2016 at 10:09am PST Irreplaceable 🐯 A photo posted by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 19, 2016 at 10:13am PST "The first year we started hanging out, everyone around him told him not to be with me," Jenner told Complex last October. "I still get comments like, 'Don't be with him.' But we're not doing it for the public—we love each other. We need to be together at all times. We never get mad at each other, we just figure things out."

Tyga is at the center of another lawsuit, this time accused of letting members of his team "assault" a process server who was attempting to serve papers related to a previous suit. The server alleges Tyga's crew "beat" him at Penthouse nightclub last November after he presented the G.O.O.D. Music affiliate with legal documents, TMZ reported Tuesday.

The suit claims the process server was "grabbed, yanked, pulled, and choked" by a member of Tyga's entourage after Tyga himself gave the go-ahead. According to TMZ, the process server's suit also refers to Tyga as a "minor 'celebrity'" whose social life has eclipsed his music career.

Tyga was entering Penthouse for a birthday throwdown when, according to TMZ's original report of the incident from November, the server was "unceremoniously and forcibly removed" from the premises. Here's video of the encounter, for those with a shitty memory:

But Tyga's birthday wasn't all doom and gloom. Kylie Jenner shared a pair of intimate Instagram posts in honor of the big day, declaring Tyga "irreplaceable."

happy birthday baby 💋 A photo posted by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 19, 2016 at 10:09am PST

Irreplaceable 🐯 A photo posted by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 19, 2016 at 10:13am PST

"The first year we started hanging out, everyone around him told him not to be with me," Jenner told Complex last October. "I still get comments like, 'Don't be with him.' But we're not doing it for the public—we love each other. We need to be together at all times. We never get mad at each other, we just figure things out."