High School Basketball Star LaMelo Ball Drops 92 Points in a Game
High School Basketball Star LaMelo Ball Drops 92 Points in a Game
The last we heard from high school basketball star LaMelo Ball, he was casually calling a half-court shot before sinking it in the middle of a game. Since then, the 15-year-old sophomore has continued to do amazing things on the basketball court, but nothing quite as amazing as what he pulled off on Tuesday night. Related HS Basketball Star LaMelo Ball Casually Calls Half-Court Shot Before Sinking It in the Middle of a Game LaMelo Ball Has Committed to Playing Basketball for UCLA and He's Only 13 Years Old A History of High School Basketball Players Scoring 100+ Points in a Game Ball, who plays for Chino Hills High School in California and is the younger brother of UCLA star freshman Lonzo Ball, scored an incredible 92 points during a 146-123 victory over Los Osos High School. And what makes the UCLA commit’s performance even crazier is that he "only" had 51 points entering the fourth quarter. But he went off for 41 in the final eight minutes to end the game just eight points shy of the elusive 100-point mark that has only been achieved by a handful of players throughout the course of basketball history. UCLA💙💛 A photo posted by LaMelo Ball (@swaggymelo1) on May 12, 2016 at 4:50pm PDT Ball’s stat line is obviously insane. He made 37 of the 61 shots he took during the game, including 7 of 22 three-pointers. He also hit 11 of 14 shots from the free-throw line. And he helped his team avenge their recent loss to high school powerhouse Oak Hill Academy, which ended a streak of 60 straight wins for Chino Hills. But the Los Osos head coach was happy after the game. He called Ball’s performance a "joke" and said that the only reason he was able to eclipse the 90-point mark was because his teammates kept fouling Los Osos players to give him more opportunities. "That’s wrong," coach Dave Smith said. "It goes against everything [the California Interscholastic Federation] stands for. The Ball boys are very talented and great players, but it’s embarrassing to high school athletics." Regardless of what you think about the 92-point game, there was some good to come out of it. Ball dedicated his performance to the sister of one of the members of the Chino Hills dance team who needs a heart transplant: 92 points #love4lexi 🙏🏼 #love4lexi 💕 A photo posted by LaMelo Ball (@swaggymelo1) on Feb 8, 2017 at 12:43am PST Do you have a problem with Ball going for 92 in a blowout win?

The last we heard from high school basketball star LaMelo Ball, he was casually calling a half-court shot before sinking it in the middle of a game. Since then, the 15-year-old sophomore has continued to do amazing things on the basketball court, but nothing quite as amazing as what he pulled off on Tuesday night.

Ball, who plays for Chino Hills High School in California and is the younger brother of UCLA star freshman Lonzo Ball, scored an incredible 92 points during a 146-123 victory over Los Osos High School. And what makes the UCLA commit’s performance even crazier is that he "only" had 51 points entering the fourth quarter. But he went off for 41 in the final eight minutes to end the game just eight points shy of the elusive 100-point mark that has only been achieved by a handful of players throughout the course of basketball history.

UCLA💙💛 A photo posted by LaMelo Ball (@swaggymelo1) on May 12, 2016 at 4:50pm PDT

Ball’s stat line is obviously insane. He made 37 of the 61 shots he took during the game, including 7 of 22 three-pointers. He also hit 11 of 14 shots from the free-throw line. And he helped his team avenge their recent loss to high school powerhouse Oak Hill Academy, which ended a streak of 60 straight wins for Chino Hills.

But the Los Osos head coach was not happy after the game. He called Ball’s performance a "joke" and said that the only reason he was able to eclipse the 90-point mark was because his teammates kept fouling Los Osos players to give him more opportunities. "That’s wrong," coach Dave Smith said. "It goes against everything [the California Interscholastic Federation] stands for. The Ball boys are very talented and great players, but it’s embarrassing to high school athletics."

Regardless of what you think about the 92-point game, there was some good to come out of it. Ball dedicated his performance to the sister of one of the members of the Chino Hills dance team who needs a heart transplant:

92 points #love4lexi 🙏🏼 — SwaggyMelo (@MELOD1P) February 8, 2017 #love4lexi 💕 A photo posted by LaMelo Ball (@swaggymelo1) on Feb 8, 2017 at 12:43am PST

Do you have a problem with Ball going for 92 in a blowout win?