Kevin Durant of Golden State Warriors talks Oklahoma City return, dismisses 'fake drama' involving Russell Westbrook
KD on OKC return: 'I know how it's going to be'
KD on OKC return: 'I know how it's going to be' Draymond Green's triple-double was unusual and valuable Green triple-double historically uncommon in win Sources: Durant hires extra security for return Knicks ban Oakley, fire security chief of MSG Melo: Knicks have to get out from under 'cloud' Dolan: I'll allow Phil to do his job, won't meddle Magic wants to 'call the shots' with Lakers Draymond Green steals the show from Klay Thompson Klay Thompson's heroic Game 6  vs. OKC changed everything Pain in Jimmy Butler's heel lingers in return; status for Sunday unclear 2 Related Q&A: Devin Booker talks Bledsoe, Kobe and being in the zone Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Kevin Durant returns with memories, but not regrets 1 Related Durant, Westbrook and the NBA's reality TV stars What Kevin Durant left behind in Oklahoma City Durant, Westbrook and the NBA's reality TV stars #NBArank Rising Stars: Where does Lakers' Ingram land? Pelton mail: How will Ben Simmons compare to Rubio? Ten (12) things I like and don't like, including the streaking Miami Heat Fantasy basketball forecaster: Feb. 13-26 Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Is the Lakers' young core making the right strides? Why we won't stop talking about Lin vs. Kobe 3 Related Photos: New York, Taiwan and the Knicks during peak Linsanity Jeremy Lin is still a symbol for whatever we want him to be What it's like to be called the 'next Jeremy Lin' Kevin Durant sits down with ESPN's Marc Stein to talk about what the environment will be like playing against his former team in OKC and explains what happened between himself and Russell Westbrook. (1:39) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Golden State Warriors star forward Kevin Durant said in a Tuesday interview with SportsCenter that he‎ has "been thinking" about Saturday night's highly anticipated return to Oklahoma City "for the last month" and just wants "to experience it [and] see how I feel once that moment comes." In a SportsCenter sit-down with ESPN's Marc Stein, Durant also insisted that ‎he is prepared for whatever reaction greets him at Chesapeake Energy Arena, saying: "I know what's important [to Thunder fans] and their team is way more important than just one player. ... I'm not going in there acting like I'm going to be praised, I know how it's going to be." "I know they're going to be rowdy in there, man," Durant told Stein. "I've been a part of some of the loudest nights in that arena. So I know it's not going to be the friendliest welcome, but, like I said, I can't wait to see the people that I really built relationships with over my time there and, you know, I'm sure fans that I got to know throughout my time playing there, even though they might not cheer for me out loud, I'll give 'em a wink and they know what we had deep down inside." In excerpts of the interview that aired Tuesday night on SportsCenter, Durant also addressed what he refers to as the "fake drama" of the season-long storyline pitting him against former All-Star teammate Russell Westbrook . "I realized that earlier on in the season," Durant said, explaining his contention that it's "fake drama." "I was doing an interview with someone and I used the word 'unselfish' to describe my teammates here [with] the Warriors and someone asked Russell the question, asked if he heard what I said about being unselfish and he phrased the question as if I was saying that the Thunder and the organization and the team was selfish. And once I heard that, I was like, 'They are trying to get in between this thing and make it bigger than what it is.' "Obviously Russell wasn't going to hear that [full] interview I had about me just talking about my teammates I have now and someone in Oklahoma City phrased it to him as if I was calling them selfish. It's that easy. It's that easy for the media to twist something up and for the media, you know, [to] make a feud between us." ‎An extended version of the conversation will air Wednesday night on SportsCenter after the Warriors play host to the Chicago Bulls . Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Kevin Durant sits down with ESPN's Marc Stein to talk about what the environment will be like playing against his former team in OKC and explains what happened between himself and Russell Westbrook. (1:39)

Golden State Warriors star forward Kevin Durant said in a Tuesday interview with SportsCenter that he‎ has "been thinking" about Saturday night's highly anticipated return to Oklahoma City "for the last month" and just wants "to experience it [and] see how I feel once that moment comes."

In a SportsCenter sit-down with ESPN's Marc Stein, Durant also insisted that ‎he is prepared for whatever reaction greets him at Chesapeake Energy Arena, saying: "I know what's important [to Thunder fans] and their team is way more important than just one player. ... I'm not going in there acting like I'm going to be praised, I know how it's going to be."

Editor's Picks Sources: Green purposely tried to rile up Durant Draymond Green said his verbal altercation with Kevin Durant during Saturday's game was nothing more than "a tactic."

"I know they're going to be rowdy in there, man," Durant told Stein. "I've been a part of some of the loudest nights in that arena. So I know it's not going to be the friendliest welcome, but, like I said, I can't wait to see the people that I really built relationships with over my time there and, you know, I'm sure fans that I got to know throughout my time playing there, even though they might not cheer for me out loud, I'll give 'em a wink and they know what we had deep down inside."

In excerpts of the interview that aired Tuesday night on SportsCenter, Durant also addressed what he refers to as the "fake drama" of the season-long storyline pitting him against former All-Star teammate Russell Westbrook.

"I realized that earlier on in the season," Durant said, explaining his contention that it's "fake drama."

Ezra Shaw/Getty Images

"I was doing an interview with someone and I used the word 'unselfish' to describe my teammates here [with] the Warriors and someone asked Russell the question, asked if he heard what I said about being unselfish and he phrased the question as if I was saying that the Thunder and the organization and the team was selfish. And once I heard that, I was like, 'They are trying to get in between this thing and make it bigger than what it is.'

"Obviously Russell wasn't going to hear that [full] interview I had about me just talking about my teammates I have now and someone in Oklahoma City phrased it to him as if I was calling them selfish. It's that easy. It's that easy for the media to twist something up and for the media, you know, [to] make a feud between us."

‎An extended version of the conversation will air Wednesday night on SportsCenter after the Warriors play host to the Chicago Bulls.