Tom Selleck Clears Up That 'Three Men and a Baby' Ghost Rumor
Tom Selleck Clears Up That 'Three Men and a Baby' Ghost Rumor
For years there’s been a rumor that in , the ghost of a boy is visible in a scene with Ted Danson and Celeste Holm. According to Snopes, “The most common form of this rumor claims that a 9-year-old boy committed suicide with a shotgun in the house.” On , Jimmy Fallon talked with one of the movie’s stars, Tom Selleck, about it and pointed out what people had been talking about. “The story was that this kid died in the house where we shot the movie,” Selleck recounted. “Well, we shot on a sound stage. They built the set and all.” The team found out that it was a cardboard cutout of Danson’s character, a self-involved actor. “I always thought it was a poster, a full-size poster, that had been knocked over,” Selleck said. “That was my theory.” Selleck also said that Hollywood approached him with yet another sequel idea. “They said that they had a concept where it would be like , but ,” Selleck said of a producer’s idea for a follow-up to his 1987 comedy. “I thought it was a great idea.” And to wrap up Fallon’s extensive coverage of , Selleck pointed to an area on his shirt that was wet in the poster. Turns out, that wasn’t water. “That’s real pee on me,” Selleck shared. “Annie Leibovitz took the picture and she’s great. We’re taking this picture for the poster and the baby pees all over me. And she says, ‘Don’t change, don’t change!’ And she just keeps taking pictures. It’s actually, for once in my life, a genuine expression.” Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram , or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous , on Twitter.

For years there’s been a rumor that in Three Men and a Baby, the ghost of a boy is visible in a scene with Ted Danson and Celeste Holm. According to Snopes, “The most common form of this rumor claims that a 9-year-old boy committed suicide with a shotgun in the Three Men and a Baby house.”

Tom Selleck cleared up that ghost rumor about Three Men and a Baby. (Photo: NBC) More

On The Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon talked with one of the movie’s stars, Tom Selleck, about it and pointed out what people had been talking about. “The story was that this kid died in the house where we shot the movie,” Selleck recounted. “Well, we shot on a sound stage. They built the set and all.”

The Tonight Show team found out that it was a cardboard cutout of Danson’s character, a self-involved actor. “I always thought it was a poster, a full-size poster, that had been knocked over,” Selleck said. “That was my theory.”

Ted Danson, Tom Selleck, and Steve Guttenberg (Photo: Buena Vista/Courtesy Everett Collection) More

Selleck also said that Hollywood approached him with yet another sequel idea. “They said that they had a concept where it would be like Father of the Bride, but Three Men and a Bride,” Selleck said of a producer’s idea for a follow-up to his 1987 comedy. “I thought it was a great idea.”

Tom Selleck had an anecdote about that water on his shirt. (Photo: Buena Vista Pictures/Courtesy Everett Collection) More

And to wrap up Fallon’s extensive coverage of Three Men and a Baby, Selleck pointed to an area on his shirt that was wet in the poster. Turns out, that wasn’t water. “That’s real pee on me,” Selleck shared. “Annie Leibovitz took the picture and she’s great. We’re taking this picture for the poster and the baby pees all over me. And she says, ‘Don’t change, don’t change!’ And she just keeps taking pictures. It’s actually, for once in my life, a genuine expression.”

Joe Jonas Shows Jimmy Fallon How to Model Underwear:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.