Get Your Snack on With the Full Version of Migos' "Dab of Ranch"
Get Your Snack on With the Full Version of Migos' "Dab of Ranch"
Ranch stocks are about to soar. Migos have finally unveiled a proper version of "Dab of Ranch," their Rap Snacks jingle first teased back in November. The current Billboard champs released the proper "Dab of Ranch" as part of a two-song set for Spotify Sessions . Quavo, Takeoff, and Offset also cut a version of the track "T-Shirt." RAP SNACKS A video posted by Migos (@migos) on Nov 29, 2016 at 5:51pm PST The instaclassic track serves as the perfect promo for the groups Rap Snacks collab: the presumably savory Sour Cream with a Dab of Ranch-flavored potato chips: What's your pick? #rapsnacksigotchips #rapsnacks A photo posted by Rap Snacks (@officialrapsnacks) on Dec 26, 2016 at 11:24am PST A snack with "a dab of ranch," as any true connoisseur of rolled smokables already knows, is most often considered extremely delicious. Rap Snacks, dubbed the "official snack of hip hop," announced the historic snack back in July with this hype-inducing clip: Rap Snacks Presents @Migos , "Sour Cream with a Dab of Ranch" Flavored Potato Chips! pic.twitter.com/iHJPljyskq Migos' just grabbed the No. 1 spot on the Billboard 200 , bagging 131,000 equivalent album units and besting four other new releases. The group previously peaked at No. 17 with their 2015 release . *adds dairy-free ranch to breakfast*

Ranch stocks are about to soar. Migos have finally unveiled a proper version of "Dab of Ranch," their Rap Snacks jingle first teased back in November. The current Billboard champs released the proper "Dab of Ranch" as part of a two-song set for Spotify Sessions. Quavo, Takeoff, and Offset also cut a version of the Culture track "T-Shirt."

RAP SNACKS A video posted by Migos (@migos) on Nov 29, 2016 at 5:51pm PST

The instaclassic track serves as the perfect promo for the groups Rap Snacks collab: the presumably savory Sour Cream with a Dab of Ranch-flavored potato chips:

What's your pick? #rapsnacksigotchips #rapsnacks A photo posted by Rap Snacks (@officialrapsnacks) on Dec 26, 2016 at 11:24am PST

A snack with "a dab of ranch," as any true connoisseur of rolled smokables already knows, is most often considered extremely delicious. Rap Snacks, dubbed the "official snack of hip hop," announced the historic snack back in July with this hype-inducing clip:

Rap Snacks Presents @Migos, "Sour Cream with a Dab of Ranch" Flavored Potato Chips! pic.twitter.com/iHJPljyskq — Official Rap Snacks (@rapsnacksnow) July 5, 2016

Migos' Culture just grabbed the No. 1 spot on the Billboard 200, bagging 131,000 equivalent album units and besting four other new releases. The group previously peaked at No. 17 with their 2015 release Yung Rich Nation.