Netflix wants to start selling you merch
Netflix wants to start selling you merch
Get ready for Frank Underwood action figures. Netflix is looking to hire a "senior manager of licensing, merchandising and promotion," a position that underscore's the streaming service's aspirations to get into the merch business. "We are pursuing consumer products and associated promotion because we believe it will drive meaningful show awareness/buzz with more tangible, curated ways to interact with our most popular content," Netflix said in its job posting . "We want licensed merchandise to help promote our titles so they become part of the zeitgeist for longer periods of time. Last but not least, merchandising and promotion will be used as a marketing tactic to capture member demand and delight our member community." Netflix did not immediately respond to request for comment regarding the job post. SEE ALSO: Netflix's 'Iron Fist' trailer looks worthy of its Marvel brethren Netflix's expansion to merchandising is not shocking, given that the streaming giant has a huge library of buzzy shows with cult followings. The demand is also seemingly high. Already, many independent retailers create themed toys and merchandise surrounding Netflix's properties. A quick search of "Netflix" on Etsy shows there are over 130 pages of user-made items — ranging from Barb (from pins to stickers — related to the streaming service's content. Recently, Netflix partnered with Hot Topic to sell products related to its hit Image:  hot topic first reported the news . A spokesperson told the publication the company is still in an experimental phase. BONUS: The hidden clues lurking in the 'Stranger Things' Season 2 trailer

Get ready for Frank Underwood action figures.

Netflix is looking to hire a "senior manager of licensing, merchandising and promotion," a position that underscore's the streaming service's aspirations to get into the merch business.

"We are pursuing consumer products and associated promotion because we believe it will drive meaningful show awareness/buzz with more tangible, curated ways to interact with our most popular content," Netflix said in its job posting. "We want licensed merchandise to help promote our titles so they become part of the zeitgeist for longer periods of time. Last but not least, merchandising and promotion will be used as a marketing tactic to capture member demand and delight our member community."

Netflix did not immediately respond to Mashable's request for comment regarding the job post.

Netflix's expansion to merchandising is not shocking, given that the streaming giant has a huge library of buzzy shows with cult followings.

The demand is also seemingly high. Already, many independent retailers create themed toys and merchandise surrounding Netflix's properties. A quick search of "Netflix" on Etsy shows there are over 130 pages of user-made items — ranging from Barb (from Stranger Things) pins to Fuller House stickers — related to the streaming service's content.

Recently, Netflix partnered with Hot Topic to sell products related to its hit Stranger Things.

Image: hot topic

Bloomberg first reported the news. A spokesperson told the publication the company is still in an experimental phase.