Melania Trump wants to cash in on her First Lady status with fashion and cosmetics collections, but should we really be surprised?
Melania Trump wants to cash in on her First Lady status with fashion and cosmetics collections, but should we really be surprised?
elania is the Trump family member facing criticism today, after i t has emerged that she was planning to use her position as First Lady as a "unique, one-in-a-lifetime opportunity... to launch a broad-based commercial brand in multiple product categories." Mrs Trump is suing the corporation that publishes the Daily Mail's website in New York for $150 million for reporting rumours that she worked as an escort. The story has since been retracted, but on Monday the first lady’s lawyers argued that it had prevented her from expanding her business. The lawsuit states that "as an extremely famous and well-known person, as well as a former professional model, brand spokesperson and successful businesswoman" Melania could "have garnered multi-million dollar business relationships for a multi-year term during which [she would be] one of the most photographed women in the world." Apparel, accessories, jewellery, cosmetics, hair care and fragrance are all listed as possible areas which Melania Trump The Brand could extend into. Perhaps unsurprisingly the news that Mrs Trump was intending to sell shoes, perfume, jewellery and cosmetics while First Lady has sparked criticism. After all, it's not quite the heartwarming declaration to dedicate herself to charity work and needy causes we have seen from previous incumbents embarking on their time in the White House. nd yet, as blatant, self-serving and eyebrow-raising as this revelation may be, it is hardly surprising. Melania Trump has spent more than ten years doing what Trumps do best: turning herself into a lucrative brand. From the carefully strategised decision to give herself a credible fashion profile by inviting American Vogue along on her trip to the Paris couture shows to select her wedding dress (she plumped for a $100,000 Christian Dior number) to the launch of her eponymous jewellery line in 2010 which was sold via QVC, Trump has already made serious inroads in profiting from her ultra-groomed, glossy and unashamedly expensive personal style. So should we in fact be interpreting her honesty that she'd continue to cash in during her White House years as (almost) refreshing? elania will certainly have been acutely aware that as First Lady she would be following in the footsteps of women like Jacqueline Kennedy, Nancy Reagan and Michelle Obama who became style icons thanks to their savvy use of fashion during their tenures as First Ladies. Analysis by Professor David Yermack at the Stern School of Business found that Michelle Obama could add $38 million to the stock price of a brand she wore, with a $2.7 billion cumulative appreciation in stock prices over time at labels she supported. And we all know the enduring legacy of Kennedy's signature pillbox hats and boxy skirt suits.... eam Melania Trump certainly didn't waste any time. On the day that her husband was Inaugurated as President, the new First Lady's biography appeared on the White House website, listing her QVC jewellery collection as one of her business ventures. On Inauguration night, Mrs Trump showed her prowess for personal branding once again when she was announced as the co-designer of her Hervé Pierre gown .  Again, it came as little surprise that she'd make sure one of the most significant dresses she'd ever wear was credited as being a product of her own design talents. s Norman Eisen who was President Obama's chief ethics counselor, told AP: "The Trumps are using the White House like the Kardashians used reality TV, to build and vastly expand their overall business enterprises." Melania Trump's lawyer, Charles Harder, insists that her business aspirations aren't true but couldn't explain the wording of the lawsuit. And of course the Trumps are currently already treading on eggshells when it comes to keeping their business and political interests separate. Late last year, Ivanka was criticised for promoting a $10,000 bracelet from her line in a post-election interview and the President's own involvements in his empire still seem murky. But if they choose to go all out on profiting from the Presidency then they're not exactly alone. From selling memoirs to giving speeches and taking on handsomely paid consultancies, there are few world leaders who haven't used their experiences to make a fortune. The difference is that they did so after leaving office. ut despite their star power, no First Lady has used the fame in quite the transactional manner Trump's team are suggesting Melania might. It's certainly true that the launch of Samantha Cameron's first Cefinn collection is mere days away now. But, even though Samantha was apparently taking sewing lessons during her time living at Downing Street and had years of experience in design, she deliberately waited until her official role as Prime Minister's wife was over before announcing plans of her fashion line. But in the age of the influencer, where many celebrities profit from their every interaction with the public, social media stars earn millions from brand endorsements and monetizing your image has become par for the course, the Melania Trump take on being a First Lady may be the next logical step. Even if it does feel like a very uncomfortable one. And the multi-million dollar question: would anyone buy a perfume/ jumper/necklace created by a FLOTUS who had ditched charity work in favour of perfecting that product? In our new Trump-Kardashian reality, they actually might.

Melania is the Trump family member facing criticism today, after it has emerged that she was planning to use her position as First Lady as a "unique, one-in-a-lifetime opportunity... to launch a broad-based commercial brand in multiple product categories."

Mrs Trump is suing the corporation that publishes the Daily Mail's website in New York for $150 million for reporting rumours that she worked as an escort. The story has since been retracted, but on Monday the first lady’s lawyers argued that it had prevented her from expanding her business.

The lawsuit states that "as an extremely famous and well-known person, as well as a former professional model, brand spokesperson and successful businesswoman" Melania could "have garnered multi-million dollar business relationships for a multi-year term during which [she would be] one of the most photographed women in the world." Apparel, accessories, jewellery, cosmetics, hair care and fragrance are all listed as possible areas which Melania Trump The Brand could extend into.

Perhaps unsurprisingly the news that Mrs Trump was intending to sell shoes, perfume, jewellery and cosmetics while First Lady has sparked criticism. After all, it's not quite the heartwarming declaration to dedicate herself to charity work and needy causes we have seen from previous incumbents embarking on their time in the White House.