Man with growth of fat on neck makes plea for help
Villager with a giant growth of fat on his neck makes a plea for help


A man from a village near Rizhao City, China's Shandong province has been forced to live with a giant growth of fat on his neck for 10 years.

56-year-old Liu Zhihe chose to sacrifice his health in order to save money for his family by not having medical treatment on the growing mass around his neck.

The man who used to work as a farmer is now calling for help from members of the public to donate cash for his treatment costs.

Large growth: 56-year-old Liu Zhihe sits at home in Shandong province unable to work

Tragic: The lipoma has grown and is expected to cost at least 30,000 yuan (£3,492)

According to 163.com, the man has been suffering from a growth on his neck for the past 10 years.

He decided to try and save money for him and his family while seeking treatment however he gave up as they could not afford the cost of treatment.

According to Liu, around 10 years ago he noticed a growth the size of an egg on his neck and went to see the doctor.

A doctor examined him and said that it was lipoma and could be removed via surgery but it would require 7,000 to 8,000 yuan (£815 to £930).

At that time they could not afford the treatment.

Over time the lipoma became longer and larger and spread around the body.

He went to the hospital again and found that the cost for treatment had become 30,000 to 40,000 yuan (£3492 to £4657).

The man was able to do some farm work when it was smaller however he is now unable to work

Sad: He relies on his 31-year-old son to support his family along with his grandchildren

Liu has spent thousands of yuan already going for check ups but can not afford the cost of treatment.

He says when the Lipoma was smaller, he was still able to do some farm work however now it has grown bigger, he is unable to work and struggles to catch his breath.

Liu also finds it hard to lie down and sleep due to the size of the growth.

The man is now supported by his 31-year-old son who works in Qingdao and already has to support his own wife and two children.

He doesn't want to trouble his son with the medical costs so is now asking people or medical institutions to help him with the treatment.