Queensland Cabinet reshuffle: Mark Furner to replace Stirling Hinchliffe after resignation



Queensland Cabinet reshuffle: Mark Furner to replace Stirling Hinchliffe after resignation

Updated

Member for Ferny Grove Mark Furner will be elevated to State Cabinet to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of former transport minister Stirling Hinchliffe.

Although Mr Furner is a first term Queensland MP with the smallest margin of any Government seat, the 58-year-old is an experienced politician having served six years as a senator from 2008 to 2014.

He is not expected to take over the transport portfolio, which could return to the control of Deputy Premier and former, now acting Transport Minister Jackie Trad, or be combined with the roads portfolio held by Mark Bailey.

Mr Furner defeated Logan MP Linus Power in the right faction vote for the Cabinet spot, which will be endorsed tomorrow by Caucus when Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk announces the details of what she said would be a minor reshuffle.

Mr Hinchliffe's other portfolio — the Commonwealth Games — could be handed back to Education, Tourism and Major Events Minister Kate Jones.

The reshuffle will the third in two years for the Palaszczuk ministry.

The Premier expanded her cabinet at the end of 2015 after the resignation of Jo-Ann Miller, and rejigged the line-up again in November when Leanne Donaldson was forced to quit.

Mark Bailey open to change in portfolio

Minister for Main Roads, Road Safety and Ports as well as Energy, Biofuels and Water Supply Mark Bailey said he was willing to consider adding transport to his responsibilities.

"That is a matter for the Premier to make, and I have absolute faith that the Premier will make a wise, and absolutely on-the-money decision on this, and there's a range of options there for her, " he said.

"I'm willing to serve the Government in any way that the Premier best thinks I can serve, so I am open to it."

Mr Bailey said he had not talked with Ms Palaszczuk about a potential change.

"I haven't at this stage, but the Premier will make the decision," he said.

"There are a number of people who have absolutely got the abilities and skill and talent to do it, and it will be a matter for her to make that call."

Topics: state-parliament, rail-transport, states-and-territories, government-and-politics, qld

First posted