Housing crisis: the empty nester's guide to downsizing

, , , and    Bob Veitch and his wife Susan can see their old house from the garden of their new home in the small town of Marshfield in Gloucestershire. “We get no pangs of regret,” says Bob, even though they lived in their Edwardian farmhouse for 40 years and raised their two sons and cared for his parents there. They were, he says, “the happiest years of our lives”. The farmhouse, which was outside the village, had four bedrooms, two acres of land and two large outbuildings and, when his parents moved in, they added two more bedrooms. But by the 90s, when their sons had left home and Bob’s parents had died, they started to think about moving somewhere smaller. “Large houses cost a lot to run,” he says. “I no longer had a use for the outbuildings.” Bob, now 72, had retired from his fruit and veg business. “We didn’t really want to go, but it was the most practical thing to do.” They put the house on the market, but it was five years before they found a buyer. “It wasn’t so bad in the early years because I was more mobile than I am now. I could cope with it. But towards the end, it got a bit much.” Still, the wait for a buyer meant they could steadily reduce their possessions. Bob is not sentimental about objects. “We’re not very materialistic,” he says. Some furniture and possessions went to his children and grandchildren, and books went to the charity shop. The most disappointing thing, he says, is that they had some good furniture that nobody wanted, not even the charity shops. “There was an oak table that we bought just after we married, and it cost £600 in the late 60s. Nobody wanted it. It’s now my workbench: there are holes drilled in it, and a vice on it.” He believes there isn’t the market for some types of older furniture. “It’s the wrong colour, or the wrong shape. Big stuff like the beds nobody wanted either, so I had to burn them. The thing that annoyed me the most was destroying perfectly good stuff – it made me wonder: ‘What is the world coming to?’” Was it sad to leave a house full of family memories? “Not really,” he insists. “The family who took it over have kids, horses. It was exactly the sort of family we wanted to buy it, so we were happy to hand it over. We had been so happy there and we were sure they were going to be.” They moved to a three-bedroom home. There is one definite upside, says Bob with a laugh: “I can go to the pub now and have an extra pint because I haven’t got to drive home. I can walk.”  The Murdochs met 35 years ago. They were in their late-40s and Margaret had two grown-up children from an earlier relationship. They began their life together in Dunstable, Bedfordshire, where they shared a detached four-bedroom house. When the garden there felt too big, they moved to a modern, five-bedroom house on a crescent overlooking a lake in Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire. “We didn’t need all that space, but the location was superb,” Malcolm says. He’s 81 now, a year younger than Margaret, and retired 10 years ago after a career in computing and consultancy. The house in Milton Keynes was perfect, he says: “Not much garden, a lovely terrace, and good views from the balcony, where we could sit and watch people going by.” The couple made the most of the space, having friends and family to stay, but there were disadvantages. “We did accumulate a lot of stuff belonging to my wife’s children, in our top room, which became uninhabitable,” Malcolm says. “And the heating latterly cost us about £1,200 a year. But the stairs were the biggest problem in the end.” Margaret was born with dislocated hips, and, in her mid-70s, a home set over four floors became too much. She and Malcolm began to consider downsizing more than a year ago. “It was very difficult. We couldn’t find anywhere that really switched us on,” he says. “Then one day we received some advertising material about a new retirement village. Margaret didn’t think it was for us, but I said: ‘Why don’t we just go and have a day out, have a look?’” The luxury Audley village in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, offers two-bedroom flats from £300,000. The Murdochs bought one off-plan, moving into a caravan for six months after their house sold unexpectedly quickly. They were able to move in last September. “We have a first-floor balcony with picture windows overlooking the village, which is bounded by brick and stone buildings,” Malcolm says from his armchair. “It’s very cosy and friendly.” Downsizing left the couple with a healthy fund to see them through the next stage in their lives, and Audley can provide care should they need it. Their living costs have come down, too, by more than five times in the case of heating. “And we still have a spare room for people to come and stay,” Malcolm says. “We’ve taken time to get used to the new environment. We miss the lovely views from our house, but we feel at home now. Everything is pointing in the right direction.” For 20 years, Irene Wheelhouse, 90, lived with her husband, Arnie, in a large corner house in Ilkley, at the edge of the moors in West Yorkshire. One of the upstairs bedrooms was big enough to serve as a studio flat, and a stream ran through the garden. It was a place they had chosen to enjoy in their retirement. They filled it with things they had given each other over the years, and brought back to it a few more things from trips abroad. Then Arnie became ill. Three years ago he died, and Irene knew she had a decision to make. The large house was good for entertaining. “My family, unfortunately, live on the other side of the world,” she says, “so when they came it was usually a long visit.” However, they could not come at short notice, if she needed them. The nearest of her three sons lives six hours’ drive away, on the south coast. (The others are in France and Papua New Guinea.) Then there were the steps. She could live happily on the ground floor, but getting outside either through the front or back, or even through the garage, would involve negotiating stairs that might become a problem. She did not have to move, nor did she want to, but she knew she should. “I thought, if I need help, I’m a bit isolated here. It’s one of the most difficult decisions I’ve had to make. You’ve got to make yourself do it.” Finding somewhere small and practical was easy. A three-room flat in a retirement village just two and a half miles away was perfect, and Irene hired a professional move manager to handle the practicalities. The real challenge was emotional. Downsizing did not just mean leaving the house in which she and Arnie had been so happy; it forced her to dispose of the things they had shared. It became an act of grieving. “These were things that you collected together over time,” she says. “But they’ve just got to go, because you won’t have space.” When the day came, last June, Irene left the house “with a huge lump in my throat”. Although her new neighbours were welcoming, there were a few worrying months while she adapted to her changed surroundings. “I think the biggest thing was getting used to the smaller space,” she says. “When I first came here I used to wake up in the morning thinking: ‘Oh, my goodness, what on earth am I doing here?’” Now, though, it’s home. “I love my little kitchen,” she says. “It’s quite well designed. And I have a balcony!” True, some of her things are still in boxes. Others are in the boot of her car. Although it’s mainly the car that she feels sorry for. In the old place it had the luxury of a heated double garage. “Now the poor thing’s frozen solid with being stood outside.” Linda Collins is testament to downsizing having its upsides. After living in a five-bedroom house in south London for more than 30 years, along with her husband Paul, an architect,, the couple (both in their 70s) began to feel that looking after their house was taking far too much time. “Our children moved out in the 90s when they went to university, and although they popped back, they had their own places.” The sprawling garden and large home began to feel too difficult to maintain, and there were small jobs that constantly needed doing. “We had both retired so it felt like the right time to move,” explains Linda, who worked in education. After looking further afield they decided their patch of London still had the most to offer, and also had the kind of property they wanted – one with a garden, a garage and a downstairs toilet. A three-bedroom house around the corner that fitted the bill came on the market. “It was less stressful than we thought it would be,” says Linda. But she says this is also because of the “crazy” property prices in London. “The value of the house had shot up over 30 years, so we had money to play with.” It also meant the money they saved by buying a cheaper property could go towards helping their daughter get on the property ladder. Linda says firmly that she is “not a hoarder” and didn’t mind getting rid of old furniture. But they still ended up moving with too much and have been giving pieces away to charity shops. She says her husband can get misty-eyed about their old home but she is not looking back. Yet their new house has slowly been growing. “When we moved in, we thought it was great. But over time we put in a new boiler system, my husband added a laundry room on the side of the house – and we have a verandah. “That’s just what we are like. With the old house, the next thing would have been to start knocking down what we had done and start again – at that point it’s definitely time to move on!”  Jo Somerset, 61, and her partner Liz Clarke, 54, dreamed of downsizing long before the youngest of their five children finally left home. “We always told them we were going to sell the family house as soon as they’d all gone and we were counting down the years until we could do it,” says Somerset, who, with Clarke, runs a cycle training and development organisation. “They were still a bit miffed when we actually did it. All the kids were a little upset. They’d have loved us to keep it – it was a great party house.” Three years ago, with all the children in work or at university, the couple finally sold their six-bedroom, four-storey, semi-detached house in Chorlton, south Manchester, and moved to a three-bedroom terraced house around the corner. There was some money leftover to put towards a small flat in London, a crashpad for Somerset while she did a postgraduate certificate in history at Birkbeck. “Liz always said that maintaining the old house was like painting the Forth Road Bridge. It was never ending. We just didn’t need that any more. All we wanted was our own space,” says Somerset. They spent 10 months renovating the new place, decorating it to their taste and installing light-coloured carpets for the first time since their eldest was born. Moving out of the family home was a painstaking pursuit. “It took us two years to clear out 20 years of stuff across four floors,” says Somerset. Their offspring, now aged 23 to 28, are barred from considering the in the capital as their family space (“They’ve all asked and we’ve said no to them all. You let one and then they’d all want to use it.”). The children are welcome to stay in the spare bedroom of the new Chorlton house if they don’t treat it like a hotel. “They have to be in by midnight. We want them to respect our lifestyle. We are out working every day and we want to get a decent night’s sleep. We are still up for fun in the evenings but we were sick and tired of being woken up throughout the night by five consecutive clicks of the front door key turning and each one trooping upstairs,” says Somerset. They love having all the children back for dinner, however, and bought a table to accommodate all five, plus partners. The couple adore their smaller home – “It only takes 10 minutes to vacuum the whole place!” – and feel it will be more suitable as they age. While doing it up, they considered installing a downstairs loo, in case the stairs get too much, but decided against it. “We always joke that we can just bring out a commode we bought a few years ago when I broke my pelvis on the BMX track at the velodrome,” laughs Somerset. She occasionally misses the big old house, but never enough to regret the move. “That was the right house for that period in our lives. Now we have the right house for the lives we lead today.” “Amazingly, it hasn’t been a wrench,” Margaret Shelton tells me, “because we are so happy in our new home.” Along with her husband David, a retired chartered surveyor, she moved from a large five-bedroom house to a three-bedroom chalet bungalow just over three years ago. The pair took a pragmatic approach, says Margaret, who used to run a charitable housing society for elderly people. Although they loved their large family home, 10 minutes from the sea, it had become “too big and cumbersome” to manage, when they were in their mid- to late-70s and their three children had left home. They both knew it was not somewhere either one would like to live alone. “We are fairly sensible and knew that would happen one day.We were keen to move while we could. Some of our neighbours have left it too late and it’s quite a task. We didn’t want to wait until we were in ill health or too old.” Eventually, they found a chalet bungalow that suited them perfectly, once they had added a downstairs bathroom with a door that allowed access for a wheelchair, in case either of them need this in years to come. While they had a surplus left over from their house sale, this has gone on making their new home perfect. Trawling through 30 years of possessions was no easy task. “We should have probably started earlier,” says David. They had some sentimental pangs over the ornaments, pictures, and a piano that had to go. But while they have one chest of memorabilia tucked away to sort through at a later date, they managed to get through it all, donating to charity shops or selling things on Gumtree. The only downside, they say, is that their eight grandchildren miss playing cricket and football in their old, large garden. But the couple say they couldn’t be happier. Their new garden is manageable and so “a joy, not a burden”, and their new home is even closer to the sea. Staying in the area means they have not lost friends, their church community or the choir and music groups they take part in. “We have sea views all around,” David says, “and have a lovely area for walking near by. We have gained so much.” Topics  Housing   Older people   Communities   Property

Bob and Susan Veitch – Marshfield, Gloucestershire

Six-bedroom farmhouse to three-bedroom house



Bob Veitch and his wife Susan can see their old house from the garden of their new home in the small town of Marshfield in Gloucestershire. “We get no pangs of regret,” says Bob, even though they lived in their Edwardian farmhouse for 40 years and raised their two sons and cared for his parents there. They were, he says, “the happiest years of our lives”. The farmhouse, which was outside the village, had four bedrooms, two acres of land and two large outbuildings and, when his parents moved in, they added two more bedrooms. But by the 90s, when their sons had left home and Bob’s parents had died, they started to think about moving somewhere smaller.

“Large houses cost a lot to run,” he says. “I no longer had a use for the outbuildings.” Bob, now 72, had retired from his fruit and veg business. “We didn’t really want to go, but it was the most practical thing to do.”

They put the house on the market, but it was five years before they found a buyer. “It wasn’t so bad in the early years because I was more mobile than I am now. I could cope with it. But towards the end, it got a bit much.” Still, the wait for a buyer meant they could steadily reduce their possessions.

Bob is not sentimental about objects. “We’re not very materialistic,” he says. Some furniture and possessions went to his children and grandchildren, and books went to the charity shop. The most disappointing thing, he says, is that they had some good furniture that nobody wanted, not even the charity shops. “There was an oak table that we bought just after we married, and it cost £600 in the late 60s. Nobody wanted it. It’s now my workbench: there are holes drilled in it, and a vice on it.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Bob and Susan Veitch, who sold their large farmhouse to move into this three-bedroom house. Photograph: Adrian Sherratt for the Guardian

He believes there isn’t the market for some types of older furniture. “It’s the wrong colour, or the wrong shape. Big stuff like the beds nobody wanted either, so I had to burn them. The thing that annoyed me the most was destroying perfectly good stuff – it made me wonder: ‘What is the world coming to?’”

Was it sad to leave a house full of family memories? “Not really,” he insists. “The family who took it over have kids, horses. It was exactly the sort of family we wanted to buy it, so we were happy to hand it over. We had been so happy there and we were sure they were going to be.”

They moved to a three-bedroom home. There is one definite upside, says Bob with a laugh: “I can go to the pub now and have an extra pint because I haven’t got to drive home. I can walk.”

Emine Saner

Malcolm and Margaret Murdoch – Leamington Spa

Five-bedroom house to two-bedroom flat in a retirement complex



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Malcolm and Margaret Murdoch in their new flat in a retirement complex. Photograph: John Robertson for the Guardian

The Murdochs met 35 years ago. They were in their late-40s and Margaret had two grown-up children from an earlier relationship. They began their life together in Dunstable, Bedfordshire, where they shared a detached four-bedroom house. When the garden there felt too big, they moved to a modern, five-bedroom house on a crescent overlooking a lake in Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire.

“We didn’t need all that space, but the location was superb,” Malcolm says. He’s 81 now, a year younger than Margaret, and retired 10 years ago after a career in computing and consultancy. The house in Milton Keynes was perfect, he says: “Not much garden, a lovely terrace, and good views from the balcony, where we could sit and watch people going by.”

The couple made the most of the space, having friends and family to stay, but there were disadvantages. “We did accumulate a lot of stuff belonging to my wife’s children, in our top room, which became uninhabitable,” Malcolm says. “And the heating latterly cost us about £1,200 a year. But the stairs were the biggest problem in the end.”

Margaret was born with dislocated hips, and, in her mid-70s, a home set over four floors became too much. She and Malcolm began to consider downsizing more than a year ago. “It was very difficult. We couldn’t find anywhere that really switched us on,” he says. “Then one day we received some advertising material about a new retirement village. Margaret didn’t think it was for us, but I said: ‘Why don’t we just go and have a day out, have a look?’”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Malcolm Murdoch at the retirement complex. Photograph: John Robertson for the Guardian

The luxury Audley village in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, offers two-bedroom flats from £300,000. The Murdochs bought one off-plan, moving into a caravan for six months after their house sold unexpectedly quickly. They were able to move in last September. “We have a first-floor balcony with picture windows overlooking the village, which is bounded by brick and stone buildings,” Malcolm says from his armchair. “It’s very cosy and friendly.”

Downsizing left the couple with a healthy fund to see them through the next stage in their lives, and Audley can provide care should they need it. Their living costs have come down, too, by more than five times in the case of heating. “And we still have a spare room for people to come and stay,” Malcolm says. “We’ve taken time to get used to the new environment. We miss the lovely views from our house, but we feel at home now. Everything is pointing in the right direction.”

Simon Usborne

Irene Wheelhouse, Ilkley, Yorkshire

Five-room house to a three-room flat



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Irene Wheelhouse made the hard decision to sell her old house after the death of her husband. Photograph: Darren O'Brien/Guzelian for the Guardian

For 20 years, Irene Wheelhouse, 90, lived with her husband, Arnie, in a large corner house in Ilkley, at the edge of the moors in West Yorkshire. One of the upstairs bedrooms was big enough to serve as a studio flat, and a stream ran through the garden. It was a place they had chosen to enjoy in their retirement. They filled it with things they had given each other over the years, and brought back to it a few more things from trips abroad.

Then Arnie became ill. Three years ago he died, and Irene knew she had a decision to make. The large house was good for entertaining. “My family, unfortunately, live on the other side of the world,” she says, “so when they came it was usually a long visit.” However, they could not come at short notice, if she needed them. The nearest of her three sons lives six hours’ drive away, on the south coast. (The others are in France and Papua New Guinea.)

Then there were the steps. She could live happily on the ground floor, but getting outside either through the front or back, or even through the garage, would involve negotiating stairs that might become a problem. She did not have to move, nor did she want to, but she knew she should. “I thought, if I need help, I’m a bit isolated here. It’s one of the most difficult decisions I’ve had to make. You’ve got to make yourself do it.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Irene Wheelhouse, 90, in her new flat. Photograph: Darren O'Brien/Guzelian for the Guardian

Finding somewhere small and practical was easy. A three-room flat in a retirement village just two and a half miles away was perfect, and Irene hired a professional move manager to handle the practicalities. The real challenge was emotional. Downsizing did not just mean leaving the house in which she and Arnie had been so happy; it forced her to dispose of the things they had shared. It became an act of grieving. “These were things that you collected together over time,” she says. “But they’ve just got to go, because you won’t have space.”

When the day came, last June, Irene left the house “with a huge lump in my throat”. Although her new neighbours were welcoming, there were a few worrying months while she adapted to her changed surroundings. “I think the biggest thing was getting used to the smaller space,” she says. “When I first came here I used to wake up in the morning thinking: ‘Oh, my goodness, what on earth am I doing here?’” Now, though, it’s home. “I love my little kitchen,” she says. “It’s quite well designed. And I have a balcony!” True, some of her things are still in boxes. Others are in the boot of her car. Although it’s mainly the car that she feels sorry for. In the old place it had the luxury of a heated double garage. “Now the poor thing’s frozen solid with being stood outside.”

Leo Benedictus

Linda and Paul Collins – Balham, south London

Five-bedroom house to three-bedroom house



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Linda and Paul Collins found the move to this smaller home ‘less stressful than we thought it would be’. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian

Linda Collins is testament to downsizing having its upsides. After living in a five-bedroom house in south London for more than 30 years, along with her husband Paul, an architect,, the couple (both in their 70s) began to feel that looking after their house was taking far too much time.

“Our children moved out in the 90s when they went to university, and although they popped back, they had their own places.” The sprawling garden and large home began to feel too difficult to maintain, and there were small jobs that constantly needed doing. “We had both retired so it felt like the right time to move,” explains Linda, who worked in education.

After looking further afield they decided their patch of London still had the most to offer, and also had the kind of property they wanted – one with a garden, a garage and a downstairs toilet. A three-bedroom house around the corner that fitted the bill came on the market.

“It was less stressful than we thought it would be,” says Linda. But she says this is also because of the “crazy” property prices in London. “The value of the house had shot up over 30 years, so we had money to play with.” It also meant the money they saved by buying a cheaper property could go towards helping their daughter get on the property ladder.

Linda says firmly that she is “not a hoarder” and didn’t mind getting rid of old furniture. But they still ended up moving with too much and have been giving pieces away to charity shops. She says her husband can get misty-eyed about their old home but she is not looking back.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Linda Collins in her new home. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian

Yet their new house has slowly been growing. “When we moved in, we thought it was great. But over time we put in a new boiler system, my husband added a laundry room on the side of the house – and we have a verandah.

“That’s just what we are like. With the old house, the next thing would have been to start knocking down what we had done and start again – at that point it’s definitely time to move on!”

Homa Khaleeli

Jo Somerset and Liz Clarke, Chorlton, Manchester

Six-bedroom house to three-bedroom house (plus a London crashpad)



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Jo Somerset and Liz Clarke: ‘It only takes 10 minutes to vacuum the whole place.’ Photograph: Courtesy Jo Somerset and Liz Clarke

Jo Somerset, 61, and her partner Liz Clarke, 54, dreamed of downsizing long before the youngest of their five children finally left home. “We always told them we were going to sell the family house as soon as they’d all gone and we were counting down the years until we could do it,” says Somerset, who, with Clarke, runs a cycle training and development organisation. “They were still a bit miffed when we actually did it. All the kids were a little upset. They’d have loved us to keep it – it was a great party house.”

Three years ago, with all the children in work or at university, the couple finally sold their six-bedroom, four-storey, semi-detached house in Chorlton, south Manchester, and moved to a three-bedroom terraced house around the corner. There was some money leftover to put towards a small flat in London, a crashpad for Somerset while she did a postgraduate certificate in history at Birkbeck.

“Liz always said that maintaining the old house was like painting the Forth Road Bridge. It was never ending. We just didn’t need that any more. All we wanted was our own space,” says Somerset. They spent 10 months renovating the new place, decorating it to their taste and installing light-coloured carpets for the first time since their eldest was born. Moving out of the family home was a painstaking pursuit. “It took us two years to clear out 20 years of stuff across four floors,” says Somerset.

Their offspring, now aged 23 to 28, are barred from considering the pied a terre in the capital as their family space (“They’ve all asked and we’ve said no to them all. You let one and then they’d all want to use it.”). The children are welcome to stay in the spare bedroom of the new Chorlton house if they don’t treat it like a hotel. “They have to be in by midnight. We want them to respect our lifestyle. We are out working every day and we want to get a decent night’s sleep. We are still up for fun in the evenings but we were sick and tired of being woken up throughout the night by five consecutive clicks of the front door key turning and each one trooping upstairs,” says Somerset. They love having all the children back for dinner, however, and bought a table to accommodate all five, plus partners.

The couple adore their smaller home – “It only takes 10 minutes to vacuum the whole place!” – and feel it will be more suitable as they age. While doing it up, they considered installing a downstairs loo, in case the stairs get too much, but decided against it. “We always joke that we can just bring out a commode we bought a few years ago when I broke my pelvis on the BMX track at the velodrome,” laughs Somerset. She occasionally misses the big old house, but never enough to regret the move. “That was the right house for that period in our lives. Now we have the right house for the lives we lead today.”

Helen Pidd

Margaret and David Shelton, Bournemouth

Five-bedroom house to a three-bedroom bungalow



Facebook Twitter Pinterest David and Margaret Shelton: ‘We didn’t want to wait until we were in ill health or too old.’ Photograph: Margaret and David Shelton

“Amazingly, it hasn’t been a wrench,” Margaret Shelton tells me, “because we are so happy in our new home.” Along with her husband David, a retired chartered surveyor, she moved from a large five-bedroom house to a three-bedroom chalet bungalow just over three years ago.

The pair took a pragmatic approach, says Margaret, who used to run a charitable housing society for elderly people. Although they loved their large family home, 10 minutes from the sea, it had become “too big and cumbersome” to manage, when they were in their mid- to late-70s and their three children had left home. They both knew it was not somewhere either one would like to live alone.

“We are fairly sensible and knew that would happen one day.We were keen to move while we could. Some of our neighbours have left it too late and it’s quite a task. We didn’t want to wait until we were in ill health or too old.” Eventually, they found a chalet bungalow that suited them perfectly, once they had added a downstairs bathroom with a door that allowed access for a wheelchair, in case either of them need this in years to come. While they had a surplus left over from their house sale, this has gone on making their new home perfect.

Trawling through 30 years of possessions was no easy task. “We should have probably started earlier,” says David. They had some sentimental pangs over the ornaments, pictures, and a piano that had to go. But while they have one chest of memorabilia tucked away to sort through at a later date, they managed to get through it all, donating to charity shops or selling things on Gumtree. The only downside, they say, is that their eight grandchildren miss playing cricket and football in their old, large garden.

But the couple say they couldn’t be happier. Their new garden is manageable and so “a joy, not a burden”, and their new home is even closer to the sea. Staying in the area means they have not lost friends, their church community or the choir and music groups they take part in. “We have sea views all around,” David says, “and have a lovely area for walking near by. We have gained so much.”

Homa Khaleeli