Dog with nose, ears cut off undergoes reconstructive surgery
Dog with nose, ears cut off undergoes reconstructive surgery
The Michigan Humane Society shares a photo of Baron, the abused Rottweiler mix that was rescued from Detroit streets last month.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  The story of an abused and abandoned Rottweiler mix sent shivers down dog lovers’ spines when it spread across the internet last month. Baron, a medium-sized brown and tan dog, was rescued by the Michigan Humane Society (MHS) on Jan. 18 after the animal group got a call from a concerned citizen who spotted the dog wandering around Detroit with bloody, open wounds. The dog’s nose and ears appeared to have been cut off, and he had lacerations in his tail and back legs. Baron rests at the Michigan Humane Society in Detroit as he awaits surgery. It’s one of the worst cases the MHS rescue team has ever seen, which is why the organization is offering up to $40,000 for information to catch Baron’s abuser. “It appears that someone purposely maimed this poor dog, which has caused it a great deal of suffering,” Mark Ramos, one of MHS’ lead cruelty investigators, said in a statement . “This kind of cruelty is unacceptable. We need to be a voice for these animals and as a community we need to speak through our strong actions to make sure this doesn’t happen again.” The organization is now trying to give Baron a new lease on life, starting with life-changing reconstructive surgery. On Wednesday, Baron underwent surgery on his nose and tail. A team of Michigan State University veterinarians led by Dr. Bryden Stanley performed the two-hour operation — one of several surgeries the dog will need over his lifetime. By this afternoon, the dog was out of surgery and resting. The Michigan Humane Society gives Facebook followers a look into the room where Baron underwent surgery on Feb. 8. “Dr. Stanley was able to almost completely reconstruct his muzzle,” Michigan State’s College of Veterinary Medicine and Veterinary Medical Center reported . “We’re hoping he has a speedy recovery!” With a lot of care and love, the humane society believes Baron will be able to live a semi-normal life. But he still has a long road to recovery ahead of him. “His nasal passage is now covered and protected and his tail was shortened and sutured,” MHS said . “Our veterinary team reports that he came through with flying colors, and is resting quietly while he recovers. Thanks to everyone for their love and support!”                Tweet     Stumble     Email

The story of an abused and abandoned Rottweiler mix sent shivers down dog lovers’ spines when it spread across the internet last month.

Baron, a medium-sized brown and tan dog, was rescued by the Michigan Humane Society (MHS) on Jan. 18 after the animal group got a call from a concerned citizen who spotted the dog wandering around Detroit with bloody, open wounds. The dog’s nose and ears appeared to have been cut off, and he had lacerations in his tail and back legs.

Michigan Humane Society

It’s one of the worst cases the MHS rescue team has ever seen, which is why the organization is offering up to $40,000 for information to catch Baron’s abuser.

“It appears that someone purposely maimed this poor dog, which has caused it a great deal of suffering,” Mark Ramos, one of MHS’ lead cruelty investigators, said in a statement. “This kind of cruelty is unacceptable. We need to be a voice for these animals and as a community we need to speak through our strong actions to make sure this doesn’t happen again.”

The organization is now trying to give Baron a new lease on life, starting with life-changing reconstructive surgery.

On Wednesday, Baron underwent surgery on his nose and tail. A team of Michigan State University veterinarians led by Dr. Bryden Stanley performed the two-hour operation — one of several surgeries the dog will need over his lifetime.

By this afternoon, the dog was out of surgery and resting.

Michigan Humane Society

“Dr. Stanley was able to almost completely reconstruct his muzzle,” Michigan State’s College of Veterinary Medicine and Veterinary Medical Center reported. “We’re hoping he has a speedy recovery!”

With a lot of care and love, the humane society believes Baron will be able to live a semi-normal life. But he still has a long road to recovery ahead of him.

“His nasal passage is now covered and protected and his tail was shortened and sutured,” MHS said. “Our veterinary team reports that he came through with flying colors, and is resting quietly while he recovers. Thanks to everyone for their love and support!”

Anyone with information about this incident is asked to contact the Michigan Humane Society Cruelty Investigation Department at (313) 872-3401.

