Senate Confirms Jeff Sessions as Attorney General
Senate Confirms Jeff Sessions as Attorney General
Shares               Sen. Jeff Sessions has been confirmed as the new attorney general of the United States -- capping a contentious process that involved protests from his Democratic colleagues. The Senate voted tonight 52-47 in favor of Sessions' confirmation. Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia was the lone Democrat to vote for confirmation, while Sessions himself voted present. The Alabama Republican, 70, faced a contentious confirmation process. His nomination for the position had been strongly opposed by Democrats and civil rights groups since then-President-elect Donald Trump tapped him in mid-November. Many critics have cited concerns about past allegations of racism , his record on civil rights and immigration and his failure to be confirmed as a federal judge in 1986 as key points of contention. Sessions attempted to address some of these concerns during his cabinet hearing in early-January. Speaking to allegations that he had made racist remarks decades ago as Alabama attorney general, Sessions said, "I hope my tenure in this body shows you that the caricature of me wasn't accurate. It wasn't accurate then, and it's not accurate now." His reputation and qualifications for the attorney general post were also defended by a number of his Republican colleagues. "He is a man of honor and integrity, dedicated to the faithful and fair enforcement of the law, who knows well and deeply respects the Department of Justice and its role," Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley , R-Iowa, said in his opening remarks. Minutes after his colleagues confirmed him to be the next Attorney General, Sessions took to the floor to thank them and deliver his last remarks. "I can't express how grateful I am for all of you who stood by me during this difficult time,” he said, alluding to the fight Democrats staged against his nomination. Sessions said he appreciates the "full debate" the Senate had and thanked those who "found sufficient confidence" in him to cast their vote. While on the floor, Sessions also delivered his letter of resignation, which he will also deliver to Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley. The president took to Twitter to congratulate Sessions on his confirmation as Attorney General.  Congratulations to our new Attorney General, @SenatorSessions ! pic.twitter.com/e0buP1K83z        The two days of hearings were marked by intense grilling from Democrats and numerous interruptions by protesters. Sen. Cory Booker , D-N.J., and Rep. John Lewis , D-Ga., both testified against Sessions. "Those who are committed to equal justice in our society wonder whether Sen. Sessions' call for 'law and order' will mean today what it meant in Alabama, when I was coming up back then," Lewis said in his testimony. "The rule of law was used to violate the human and civil rights of the poor, the dispossessed, people of color." Democrats were successful in delaying the Senate Judiciary Committee vote on Sessions once. Before tonight's floor vote, they held around-the-clock speeches in opposition to his confirmation.  Shares                  Senate Confirms Jeff Sessions as Attorney General   ICE Says Arrests in Surge Actions Not Linked to Trump Order   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   Decision Scorecard: Who Came Out on Top in the Travel Ban Ruling   Key Takeaways from Ruling on Trump's Immigration Order   Trump Considers 'Brand New' Executive Order After Court Setback   Virginia Adds Another Challenge to Travel Ban   Trump: 'Good Chemistry' With Japan’s Leader, 'Getting Along Very Well' With China   Rosie O'Donnell Will Not Play Steve Bannon on 'SNL' -- This Weekend, Her Rep Says   Trump Vows to Unveil 'Additional Security' After Slamming Court Ruling as 'Disgraceful'   A Look at Trump's Cabinet Nominees   The Note: The Kerfuffle Over the Court’s Decision   Inside Trump's Relationship With Japanese Prime Minister Abe   Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed   Powerful Quake Kills at Least 6 in Southern Philippines   Obama Hires Agency for Speaking Gigs, Lawyers for Book Deals

Sen. Jeff Sessions has been confirmed as the new attorney general of the United States -- capping a contentious process that involved protests from his Democratic colleagues.

The Senate voted tonight 52-47 in favor of Sessions' confirmation. Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia was the lone Democrat to vote for confirmation, while Sessions himself voted present.

The Alabama Republican, 70, faced a contentious confirmation process. His nomination for the position had been strongly opposed by Democrats and civil rights groups since then-President-elect Donald Trump tapped him in mid-November. Many critics have cited concerns about past allegations of racism, his record on civil rights and immigration and his failure to be confirmed as a federal judge in 1986 as key points of contention.

Sessions attempted to address some of these concerns during his cabinet hearing in early-January. Speaking to allegations that he had made racist remarks decades ago as Alabama attorney general, Sessions said, "I hope my tenure in this body shows you that the caricature of me wasn't accurate. It wasn't accurate then, and it's not accurate now."

His reputation and qualifications for the attorney general post were also defended by a number of his Republican colleagues.

"He is a man of honor and integrity, dedicated to the faithful and fair enforcement of the law, who knows well and deeply respects the Department of Justice and its role," Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said in his opening remarks.

Minutes after his colleagues confirmed him to be the next Attorney General, Sessions took to the floor to thank them and deliver his last remarks.

"I can't express how grateful I am for all of you who stood by me during this difficult time,” he said, alluding to the fight Democrats staged against his nomination.

Sessions said he appreciates the "full debate" the Senate had and thanked those who "found sufficient confidence" in him to cast their vote.

While on the floor, Sessions also delivered his letter of resignation, which he will also deliver to Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley.

The president took to Twitter to congratulate Sessions on his confirmation as Attorney General.

The two days of hearings were marked by intense grilling from Democrats and numerous interruptions by protesters. Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., and Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., both testified against Sessions.

"Those who are committed to equal justice in our society wonder whether Sen. Sessions' call for 'law and order' will mean today what it meant in Alabama, when I was coming up back then," Lewis said in his testimony. "The rule of law was used to violate the human and civil rights of the poor, the dispossessed, people of color."

Democrats were successful in delaying the Senate Judiciary Committee vote on Sessions once. Before tonight's floor vote, they held around-the-clock speeches in opposition to his confirmation.

ABC News' Ali Rogin, Mike Levine and Julia Jacobo contributed to this report.