Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo helped Portuguese kennel stop from closing, and saved 80 dogs
Ronaldo A Hero Off The Field Too, Saves 80 Dogs & Prevents Kennel From Closing Down
Cristiano Ronaldo Is A Hero Off The Field Too, Saves 80 Dogs And Prevents Portuguese Kennel From Closing Down has shown he is not just a great player but a great human too. The Real Madrid star stepped forward to help a Portuguese kennel stop from closing. The Portugal captain donated a signed jersey to be auctioned off to raise money so that the Cantinho da Lili kennel could stay open. 80 dogs now will not be denied shelter. According to Correrio de Mahna, the shelter in Gouveia, Portugal, houses animals that require veterinary treatment costing up to 1,700 pounds. One volunteer at the kennel raised the issue with the footballer and Liliana Santos, 34, who owns the kennel, told the Portuguese newspaper, "I want to thank Ronaldo from the bottom of my heart." "It’s a simple gesture, but very important," she added. Well done Ronaldo. If man does not look after man's best friend, they won't have anyone to turn to.

Cristiano Ronaldo has shown he is not just a great player but a great human too. The Real Madrid star stepped forward to help a Portuguese kennel stop from closing.

AFP/cmjournal

The Portugal captain donated a signed jersey to be auctioned off to raise money so that the Cantinho da Lili kennel could stay open. 80 dogs now will not be denied shelter.

According to Correrio de Mahna, the shelter in Gouveia, Portugal, houses animals that require veterinary treatment costing up to 1,700 pounds.

cmjournal

One volunteer at the kennel raised the issue with the footballer and Ronaldo had no hesitation in helping.

Liliana Santos, 34, who owns the kennel, told the Portuguese newspaper, "I want to thank Ronaldo from the bottom of my heart."

AFP

"It’s a simple gesture, but very important," she added.

Well done Ronaldo. If man does not look after man's best friend, they won't have anyone to turn to.