Madonna Gave the World a Glimpse of New Twins, Stella and Esther, 7 Months Ago
Madonna Gave the World a Glimpse of New Twins, Stella and Esther, 7 Months Ago
Madonna didn’t want people to know she was adopting twins from Malawi until it was official, but she actually posted a picture of the girls — for the whole world to see — seven months ago on Instagram. The Material Girl adopted the orphans on Tuesday — two weeks after branding a report that she was planning to adopt “untrue.” However, while she may have wanted to keep the news under wraps until the deal was done, she actually shared a photo of the pair — with their new big sister Lourdes — back in July. That was when she took all four of her children — including Rocco and Malawi-born David and Mercy — to visit the country, for which she has long been doing charity work. “3 Beauties!” Madonna captioned the photo, which was posted July 8. “Lola spends time with twins, Stella and Esther at Home of Hope Orphanage.” The lookalike, wide-eyed beauties stare right into the camera lens almost in a telling way. In a story we did at the time, we wrote , “Lola, who recently finished her sophomore year at the University of Michigan, snuggled two beautiful siblings.” On Tuesday, judicial spokesman Mlenga Mvula said, “I can confirm that Madonna has been granted an adoption order for two children.” She noted that Esther and Stella are 4 years old. Ahead of the ruling, Madge arrived at the High Court in the capital Lilongwe with a large number of private security guards and police. According to the Associated Press, Madonna was asked “uncomfortable questions” by a judge prior to the adoption being signed off on. “The petitioner is a professional performer and I guarded myself against the danger of her merely reciting a well-rehearsed speech by asking her some rather uncomfortable questions to which she gave very candid answers,” Judge Fiona Mwale said in her ruling. “There is no doubt that the petitioner can offer the infants not only the best education money can buy, but also guidance with a high likelihood of ensuring that the two infants grow to be self-sufficient adults.” She established her charity, Raising Malawi, in 2006 and adopted David from there the same year and Mercy three years later after a legal battle. The charity is currently funding a surgical unit for kids at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Blantyre.

Madonna didn’t want people to know she was adopting twins from Malawi until it was official, but she actually posted a picture of the girls — for the whole world to see — seven months ago on Instagram.

The Material Girl adopted the orphans on Tuesday — two weeks after branding a report that she was planning to adopt “untrue.” However, while she may have wanted to keep the news under wraps until the deal was done, she actually shared a photo of the pair — with their new big sister Lourdes — back in July. That was when she took all four of her children — including Rocco and Malawi-born David and Mercy — to visit the country, for which she has long been doing charity work.

Related: Madonna and All 4 of Her Kids (Yes, Rocco, Too) Visit Malawi





“3 Beauties!” Madonna captioned the photo, which was posted July 8. “Lola spends time with twins, Stella and Esther at Home of Hope Orphanage.” The lookalike, wide-eyed beauties stare right into the camera lens almost in a telling way. In a story we did at the time, we wrote, “Lola, who recently finished her sophomore year at the University of Michigan, snuggled two beautiful siblings.”

On Tuesday, judicial spokesman Mlenga Mvula said, “I can confirm that Madonna has been granted an adoption order for two children.” She noted that Esther and Stella are 4 years old.

Ahead of the ruling, Madge arrived at the High Court in the capital Lilongwe with a large number of private security guards and police. According to the Associated Press, Madonna was asked “uncomfortable questions” by a judge prior to the adoption being signed off on.

“The petitioner is a professional performer and I guarded myself against the danger of her merely reciting a well-rehearsed speech by asking her some rather uncomfortable questions to which she gave very candid answers,” Judge Fiona Mwale said in her ruling. “There is no doubt that the petitioner can offer the infants not only the best education money can buy, but also guidance with a high likelihood of ensuring that the two infants grow to be self-sufficient adults.”

She established her charity, Raising Malawi, in 2006 and adopted David from there the same year and Mercy three years later after a legal battle. The charity is currently funding a surgical unit for kids at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Blantyre.





More from Yahoo Celebrity: