Waka Flocka Drops His Gucci Mane Diss Track "Was My Dawg"
Waka Flocka Drops His Gucci Mane Diss Track "Was My Dawg"
Waka Flocka ’s latest track, “Was My Dawg,” has officially dropped. And, as many of you suspected, it takes clear shots at his fellow Brick Squad member Gucci Mane . Earlier this week, Waka teased the single by posting its artwork on Instagram . The image featured what appeared to be Guwop’s silhouette adorned with a question mark and angel wings. Waka also made sure to tag Gucci in the post, eliminating any doubt about who he was targeting. “Thought you was my nigga, shorty, thought you was my dawg/Thought you was my nigga, shorty, thought you was my dawg/You all for yourself, shorty, you a ball hog,” Waka raps. “[…] Always yelling Brick Squad, always talking fam first/When your ass got locked up, you turned on the fam first/Always taking fucking credit, never put in no work.” The track doesn’t call out Gucci by name, but it’s apparent the former friends now have beef. In an interview on BBC Radio 1Xtra this week, Waka opened up about the track, saying he needed to get some things off his chest before he became too angry. Though he didn’t confirm the rumors that “Was My Dawg” was addressing Gucci, he did question the Atlanta rapper’s street cred . “Hey, since he been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta?" Waka asked. "Since Gucci been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta? Alright. I'm exposing these folks. I ain't no hater, I'm just exposing." You can listen to “Was My Dawg” above.

Waka Flocka’s latest track, “Was My Dawg,” has officially dropped. And, as many of you suspected, it takes clear shots at his fellow Brick Squad member Gucci Mane.

Earlier this week, Waka teased the single by posting its artwork on Instagram. The image featured what appeared to be Guwop’s silhouette adorned with a question mark and angel wings. Waka also made sure to tag Gucci in the post, eliminating any doubt about who he was targeting.

“Thought you was my nigga, shorty, thought you was my dawg/Thought you was my nigga, shorty, thought you was my dawg/You all for yourself, shorty, you a ball hog,” Waka raps. “[…] Always yelling Brick Squad, always talking fam first/When your ass got locked up, you turned on the fam first/Always taking fucking credit, never put in no work.”

The track doesn’t call out Gucci by name, but it’s apparent the former friends now have beef.

In an interview on BBC Radio 1Xtra this week, Waka opened up about the track, saying he needed to get some things off his chest before he became too angry. Though he didn’t confirm the rumors that “Was My Dawg” was addressing Gucci, he did question the Atlanta rapper’s street cred.

“Hey, since he been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta?" Waka asked. "Since Gucci been out, did he shoot a video in East Atlanta? Alright. I'm exposing these folks. I ain't no hater, I'm just exposing."

You can listen to “Was My Dawg” above.