21 Cozy And Useful Products That Will Help You Survive Winter
21 Cozy And Useful Products That Will Help You Survive Winter
Prices are in Canadian dollars. This adorable hand warmer that doubles as an external battery charger for your phone. It’s also available in green and pink .  $39 “This is perfect for Toronto winters. You turn it on and can instantly feel the heat. I let a friend borrow this and she almost didn’t want to let go of it.”– Amazon Customer These natural face masks that will keep your skin feeling hydrated in even the coldest temperatures. The pack comes with 11 masks and includes sheets made with aloe vera, tea tree, pomegranate, and seaweed.  $15.42 “Absolutely love these! I found out Sephora sells these same masks at two for $7.50! That’s a huge difference. These are definitely a bargain.”– Nina This snow broom and ice scraper duo that removes heavy, wet snow off your car without scraping the paint.  $19.99 “It’s the best snow product I’ve ever used!”– Eric Goulet These clip-on wireless speakers that are totally snow-proof, splash-proof, dirt-proof, and accident-proof. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to Perfect for clipping on your jacket and hitting the slopes. They’re available in four different colours .  $17.99 “Sound quality is much better than I expected! You can also answer calls with this speaker which I think is awesome.”– shrky This cashmere Sherpa throw blanket that has ridiculously positive reviews. You can also get it in burgundy , teal , and chocolate brown .  $26 “This throw seems to be like of an amazing quality. It looks so luxurious. The throw is about 1.25 cm thick. Both sides are AMAZINGLY soft.”–  Myriam Rodrigue “We have fights over this blanket in my family.”– Michael K.  “This is one of the softest blankets I’ve ever touched.”– rpm007 Or maybe these heated NHL fleece blankets are more up your alley. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to Not an Oilers fan? The blanket is available in 11 different teams , including Toronto Maple Leafs, Montreal Canadiens, and Ottawa Senators.  $43.98 * *Price depends on team selected. “I bought this for my wife for Christmas and she said it could very well be the best gift she has ever received! She loves the Leafs and enjoys curling up on the couch with this blanket to watch all the games. We have two cats so when it gets covered in cat fur she just throws it in the washing machine and it’s good as new. It’s a perfect size blanket, is very warm and the cord detaches so you don’t have to have it plugged in if you don’t want.”– gdub1973 This magnetic windshield cover that locks right onto the trim and prevents ice and frost from building up.  $29 “I live in Alberta and there is A LOT of snow in the winter. Ice ends up forming on the windshield, and I hate scraping ice off my windshield every morning. This windshield cover is great and covers my entire windshield. it blocks all snow, ice, and sunlight from getting onto my car.”– Brian This ridiculously adorable scarf and hat duo that will keep your little one warm this season. Yellow not your colour? You can also get it in pink, red, or brown !  $12.99 “Super cute hat! It’s really cozy and made for the perfect gift.”– Ree Maria And these cozy mittens that are ~actually~ flasks for keeping adults warm. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to  $27.95 “I wish they held more liquid but still a great product!”– SixFour This colourful electric tea kettle that will continue to fuel your tea addiction.  $52.99  “This kettle is great! It’s the right size for my family and can holds plenty of water. The outside surface looks very stylish like brushed metal with plastic detail and stainless steel top. It definitely deserves 5 stars for the looks, design and functionality. The base is solid and not wobbly. The sound of boiling water is a soft ‘hmm’ sound rather than a jet engine taking off and I would definitely recommend this product to anyone!”– Magdalena This super-soft bed that will keep your pet cozy during those cold months. It’s available in four different colours .  $27.99 “My little dog loves it. It’s very soft!”– Amazon Customer These ferociously cozy monster slippers that will save your toes from cold bathroom tiles. Get them in 11 different colours and patterns !  $22.99 – $27.99 * *Price depends on size. “My son loves to pretend that he is the monster now! There’s lots of padding on the front and sides, making for a snug fit. The bottom surprisingly also has a thick padding of about an inch! The stitching is neatly done. These are so useful to wear around the house since I have wood flooring which can get really COLD during the winter nights.”– ishrat This super soft plaid blanket scarf that looks like those ~fancy~ Aritzia ones but without the heavy price tag. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to Pick your fave pattern from selection of 17 options !  $17.99 “I love everything about it! Perfect size, colour, and texture!”– Helen Enns This sleek personal heater that’ll make sure you don’t get frostbite at your desk. It’s also available in black . : $22.39 “This thing is awesome. My office is always cold, and in turn my hands are always freezing while typing or using the mouse. I bought this little heater, and it was exactly what I was hoping for. It warms up the space around my keyboard perfectly, and is so quiet I forget its there.”– LittleSaintina This futuristic and portable humidifier that will help clear out your sinuses. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to Any bottle with a standard neck size will work!  $29.99 “It’s a handy and elegant-looking humidifier for those dry hotel rooms. The mist is does the job if you put it right beside your head on the bed stand. It helps me breathe better as I sleep and provides extra moisture for my skin.”– Just Nic These waterproof dog booties that will keep your canine feelin’ fine. Available in sizes XS – XL .  $59.95 “Excellent boots! We live in a very cold place and have two dogs. It gets really cold here so as you can imagine that paws will freeze quickly. But with these boot, we have zero issue. It took some getting used to for the dogs but now they run out the door with no complaints. They’re really well made!”– Amazon Customer And these thermal pants that will keep you super toasty by wicking away moisture. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to Available in four colours .  $10.89 – $50.56 * *Price depends on size. “My boyfriend loves these! He says these are his favourite. They’re nicely insulating, comfortable, and good quality. They keep him warm during the cold winter days in Toronto. He would definitely buy a million pairs of these if he could.”– Amazon Customer These melting crystals that will take care of those icy sidewalks while being totally safe for pets, children, and the environment.  $39.42 “I love this product! It’s my second winter using it and it’s so fast and effective.”– Rose Porter This soothing beauty stick that will deliver some intense hydration to the delicate skin around your eyes.  $13.98 “I LOVE these eye sticks. They feel amazing on eyes, especially during allergy season. And they have cutest packaging I have ever seen!”– Amazon Customer This luxurious heated toilet seat that even has a night-light built-in. Via amzn.to Via amzn.to  $183.99 “Your buns and wife will thank you!”– Moogolas And finally, this epic snow cone machine for when you want to fully embrace the cold and your inner child.  $66.98 “The kids love this more than ice cream! I originally bought it to use at my daughter’s second birthday, and it got quite a work out and made enough cones for more than 12 kids. We’ve been using it at lease once a week and it takes no effort to make a few snow cones and clean up is also effortless.”– Trevor Reviews have been edited for length and/or clarity.   15 Cool Products That Are Trending On Amazon Canada...    15 Useful Products Canadians With Amazon Prime Can...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Not an Oilers fan? The blanket is available in 11 different teams, including Toronto Maple Leafs, Montreal Canadiens, and Ottawa Senators.

Price: $43.98*

*Price depends on team selected.

Promising review: “I bought this for my wife for Christmas and she said it could very well be the best gift she has ever received! She loves the Leafs and enjoys curling up on the couch with this blanket to watch all the games. We have two cats so when it gets covered in cat fur she just throws it in the washing machine and it’s good as new. It’s a perfect size blanket, is very warm and the cord detaches so you don’t have to have it plugged in if you don’t want.”– gdub1973