Why Cardiologists Are Prescribing Mindfulness For Heart Health
Why Cardiologists Are Prescribing Mindfulness For Heart Health
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeena Cho       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock We know from research that mindfulness and meditation have many benefits, including reducing stress and anxiety, increasing focus and boosting your overall sense of happiness. Mindfulness can also help you let go of negative thought patterns . I was intrigued when I received the following email: I met with my cardiologist today and she wants me to do meditation (which I started while reading your book) as means to reverse coronary artery disease. She says there are four things that have scientifically been shown to reduce the risk of a heart attack in patients with mild to moderate coronary artery disease and they include – reduced stress (use meditation to do so), diet, exercise and love. Mindfulness is the simple act of paying attention to the moment-by-moment experiences. It's about being . For example, you're eating lunch but are completely lost in thought. You look down to realize that you've finished your food but didn't really to the experience of eating. Research indicates that we are spending about 47% of our waking moments thinking about something other than what we are doing in that moment. This constant mind wandering can lead to unnecessary stress and anxiety. Meditation is the formal tool we use to practice mindfulness. I reached out to Dr. Joon Sup Lee , co-director of the UPMC Heart and Vascular Institute and chief of the Division of Cardiology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, to get the scoop on how mindfulness and meditation may benefit patients with coronary artery disease. : In what cases is suggestion of mindfulness and meditation practices appropriate for patients with coronary artery disease? : Given the proven role of stress in heart attacks and coronary artery disease, effective meditation would be appropriate for almost all patients with coronary artery disease. : What type of feedback are you getting from your patients who have been encouraged to add mindfulness and meditation as part of their treatment plan?    Trending on {{channel_name}}

We know from research that mindfulness and meditation have many benefits, including reducing stress and anxiety, increasing focus and boosting your overall sense of happiness. Mindfulness can also help you let go of negative thought patterns. I was intrigued when I received the following email:

I met with my cardiologist today and she wants me to do meditation (which I started while reading your book) as means to reverse coronary artery disease. She says there are four things that have scientifically been shown to reduce the risk of a heart attack in patients with mild to moderate coronary artery disease and they include – reduced stress (use meditation to do so), diet, exercise and love.

Mindfulness is the simple act of paying attention to the moment-by-moment experiences. It's about being here. For example, you're eating lunch but are completely lost in thought. You look down to realize that you've finished your food but didn't really pay attention to the experience of eating.

Research indicates that we are spending about 47% of our waking moments thinking about something other than what we are doing in that moment. This constant mind wandering can lead to unnecessary stress and anxiety.

Meditation is the formal tool we use to practice mindfulness.

I reached out to Dr. Joon Sup Lee, co-director of the UPMC Heart and Vascular Institute and chief of the Division of Cardiology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, to get the scoop on how mindfulness and meditation may benefit patients with coronary artery disease.

Jeena Cho: In what cases is suggestion of mindfulness and meditation practices appropriate for patients with coronary artery disease?

Joon Sup Lee: Given the proven role of stress in heart attacks and coronary artery disease, effective meditation would be appropriate for almost all patients with coronary artery disease.

Cho: What type of feedback are you getting from your patients who have been encouraged to add mindfulness and meditation as part of their treatment plan?