'Dear White People' trailer sparks backlash as Netflix faces claims of racism
'Dear White People' trailer sparks backlash as Netflix faces claims of racism
etflix is facing an online backlash after releasing its first trailer of "Dear White People" , a comedy TV series about racial politics on a university campus. Based on the acclaimed film of the same name three years ago , Dear White People "satirises 'post-racial' America as students of colour navigate a predominantly white Ivy League college,"  according to the site’s description . The trailer shows an an African-American student at the fictional, largely white Winchester University urging “white people” to stop wearing blackface costumes. “Dear white people,” she says. “Here’s a list of acceptable Halloween costumes: pirate, slutty nurse, any of our first 43 presidents. Top of the list of unacceptable costumes: me.” t also announced the series will debut on April 24. Since it was uploaded to YouTube on Wednesday, it has been viewed more than 214,000 times. More than 54,000 people gave it "a thumbs down" while just 2,800 reacted positively. Of the more than 20,000 comments the clip drew, many described it as racist while some users threatened to cancel their Netflix subscription in protest. Netflix announced a new racist anti-white show called "Dear White People." Would it be OK to make a show called dear black people? No. "Irresponsibly igniting more race conflict, stop the division! Shame on u @netflix. This is disgusting propaganda," one user wrote on Twitter. nother said: "You really want to give me another reason to cancel my account. Done." The response prompted a fierce debate on social media, not just about the film but also race relations in the US . "People protesting "Dear White People" are the reason there is a movie and TV series called, "Dear White People"," one Twitter user wrote. Another tweeted: "'Black People: Dear white people...' White People: 'How dare you try to speak to me! I'm cancelling my subscription.' Race relations in 2017." he film caused a stir at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival, where it scooped the Special Jury Award for Breakthrough Talent. “You can’t get along in society without an identity,” the director Justin Simien told The Telegraph when the film was released. “As much as I’d love to believe that we are ‘post-racial’ - an idea that really gained traction after the election of Barack Obama in 2008 - I can never escape the fact that in the world I am perceived as a ‘black man’, and in certain parts of the world as a ‘black gay man.’”

Netflix is facing an online backlash after releasing its first trailer of "Dear White People", a comedy TV series about racial politics on a university campus.

Based on the acclaimed film of the same name three years ago, Dear White People "satirises 'post-racial' America as students of colour navigate a predominantly white Ivy League college," according to the site’s description.

The trailer shows an an African-American student at the fictional, largely white Winchester University urging “white people” to stop wearing blackface costumes.