Meet Roshni Misbah, Delhi's Badass ‘Hijabi Biker’ Who's Become An Internet Sensation
Meet Roshni Misbah, Delhi's Badass ‘Hijabi Biker’ Who's Become An Internet Sensation
Meet Roshni Misbah, Delhi's Badass ‘Hijabi Biker’ Who's Become An Internet Sensation The 22-year-old student of Arab Islamic Culture at the revered Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, has now become a sensation around the country. (Also read: This Solo Female Biker Travelled 32,000 Kms Across 16 States To Prove That India Is Safe For Wome n) Roshni Misbah is just another girl studying in college, but what puts her on a different podium than most women her age is her passion for riding motorcycles. While most women only toy with the idea of riding a bike, Roshni took it to the streets of Delhi and became famous with the title of ‘Hijabi Biker’. Jamia's Roshni Misbah makes heads turn When a CBR Repsol enters Jamia campus, heads turns, eyes rolls and yes... https://t.co/PVQ9MvE83u For those who think women cant ride a motorbike, then meet Roshni Misbah - ET Auto https://t.co/hnVsSXf382 Roshni Misbah: A biker who is committed to break the stereotypes about Muslim women https://t.co/HzcCSX1I5n Roshni Misbah talks about what it's like to be a woman rider. #BreakingStereotypes  #StandWithMe  #16Days  https://t.co/VXRHEIpObx She rode her first bike when she was just 9 years old and even then she was wearing a hijab. She firmly believes that her passion for bikes does not interfere with her faith. (Also read: Meet The 'Milk Riders' - Leather-Clad Biker Women Delivering Breast Milk To Hungry Babies ) "Riding a motorcycle is in my genes," she says. She also admits that being a woman biker in India is very different. She says that her passion for bikes is been shared by her father and sister. She credits her father with inspiring her to take up her passion and encouraged her to follow her dreams.

The 22-year-old student of Arab Islamic Culture at the revered Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, has now become a sensation around the country.

(Also read: This Solo Female Biker Travelled 32,000 Kms Across 16 States To Prove That India Is Safe For Women)

Facebook

Roshni Misbah is just another girl studying in college, but what puts her on a different podium than most women her age is her passion for riding motorcycles. While most women only toy with the idea of riding a bike, Roshni took it to the streets of Delhi and became famous with the title of ‘Hijabi Biker’.

Jamia's Roshni Misbah makes heads turn

When a CBR Repsol enters Jamia campus, heads turns, eyes rolls and yes... https://t.co/PVQ9MvE83u — Srinagar Times (@SrinagarTimes_) January 26, 2017

For those who think women cant ride a motorbike, then meet Roshni Misbah - ET Auto https://t.co/hnVsSXf382 — Me gusta Arbizu (@megustaarbizu) January 28, 2017

Roshni Misbah: A biker who is committed to break the stereotypes about Muslim women https://t.co/HzcCSX1I5n — S l Habib (@irfhabib) January 28, 2017

Facebook

She rode her first bike when she was just 9 years old and even then she was wearing a hijab.

She firmly believes that her passion for bikes does not interfere with her faith.

(Also read: Meet The 'Milk Riders' - Leather-Clad Biker Women Delivering Breast Milk To Hungry Babies)

Facebook

"Riding a motorcycle is in my genes," she says.

She also admits that being a woman biker in India is very different.

She says that her passion for bikes is been shared by her father and sister. She credits her father with inspiring her to take up her passion and encouraged her to follow her dreams.

She's also part of the Delhi Chapter of 'The Bikerni' group. It's basically a gang of women that aims at spreading women empowerment through the medium of motorcycles and encourage women to go on adventures they would have never thought to go on before.

(Also read: Four Women Bike 10,000 Km Across 10 Asian Countries To Raise Awareness Against Female Foeticide)

For her, riding a bike is anti-depressional and she feels a lot more liberated when she does that. 'It opens up your mind and perspective' she says.