Steven Van Zandt to Speak at Rutgers University Commencement
Steven Van Zandt to Speak at Rutgers University Commencement
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Steven Van Zandt to Speak at Rutgers University Commencement  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Musician and actor has been named the speaker for this year's graduation ceremony at Rutgers University. He follows in the footsteps of former President Barack Obama, who delivered the keynote address in 2016. Van Zandt is best known for playing with and for his role on HBO's .  He will receive an honorary doctor of fine arts at the May 14 ceremony in Newark. Van Zandt was born in Massachusetts but moved to New Jersey when he was seven. He was chosen after a selection process involving students, faculty and staff. Carla Hayden, the first woman to serve as U.S. Librarian of Congress, will deliver the keynote address at the commencement ceremony for Rutgers University-Camden.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Steven Van Zandt performs with Bruce Springsteen at Ricoh Arena on June 3, 2016 in Coventry, England.

Musician and actor Steven Van Zandt has been named the speaker for this year's graduation ceremony at Rutgers University.

He follows in the footsteps of former President Barack Obama, who delivered the keynote address in 2016.

Van Zandt is best known for playing with Bruce Springsteen &Â the E Street Band and for his role on HBO's The Sopranos.

He will receive an honorary doctor of fine arts at the May 14 ceremony in Newark. Van Zandt was born in Massachusetts but moved to New Jersey when he was seven.

He was chosen after a selection process involving students, faculty and staff.

Carla Hayden, the first woman to serve as U.S. Librarian of Congress, will deliver the keynote address at the commencement ceremony for Rutgers University-Camden.