Rape Survivor And Her Attacker Come Together To Discuss The Fateful Moment That Changed Them
Rape Survivor And Her Attacker Come Together To Discuss The Fateful Moment That Changed Them
Rape Survivor And Her Attacker Come Together To Discuss The Fateful Moment That Changed Them Thordis Elva was sixteen when she was raped by her boyfriend, Tom Stranger. The incident happened when Stranger was visiting Iceland as an exchange student from Australia. Every rape or sexual abuse is different. However, this story particularly stands out in one aspect. It brings together the victim and the attacker on a public platform where the two share their story together, narrating how neither of them understood the word 'consent' at the time of the rape. Twenty years after Elva reached out to Stranger (the rape had happened in 1996), the two wrote a book together titled and also partnered for a Ted talk in 2016. Their talk begins with Stranger telling the audience about his tour to Iceland as an 18-year-old boy and his relationship with Elva. Elva then takes over and narrates how after a Christmas dance at their school, Stranger had raped her in her own bed. She recalls how she drank for the first time and fell "very ill, drifting in and out of consciousness in between spasms of convulsive vomiting". She details the ordeal where Stranger had taken her home and then proceeded to take her clothes off to get on top of her. Elva says, After the two broke up, both tried to grasp the incident where neither could relate the rape to that depicted in mainstream media. And therefore, neither could understand it completely.

Thordis Elva was sixteen when she was raped by her boyfriend, Tom Stranger. The incident happened when Stranger was visiting Iceland as an exchange student from Australia.

Every rape or sexual abuse is different. However, this story particularly stands out in one aspect. It brings together the victim and the attacker on a public platform where the two share their story together, narrating how neither of them understood the word 'consent' at the time of the rape.

Twenty years after Elva reached out to Stranger (the rape had happened in 1996), the two wrote a book together titled South of Forgiveness and also partnered for a Ted talk in 2016.

Their talk begins with Stranger telling the audience about his tour to Iceland as an 18-year-old boy and his relationship with Elva.

Elva then takes over and narrates how after a Christmas dance at their school, Stranger had raped her in her own bed. She recalls how she drank for the first time and fell "very ill, drifting in and out of consciousness in between spasms of convulsive vomiting".

Ted Women 2016

She details the ordeal where Stranger had taken her home and then proceeded to take her clothes off to get on top of her.

Elva says,

"My head had cleared up, but my body was still too weak to fight back, and the pain was blinding. I thought I’d been severed in two. In order to stay sane, I silently counted the seconds on my alarm clock and ever since that night, I’ve known that there are 7,200 seconds in two hours."

After the two broke up, both tried to grasp the incident where neither could relate the rape to that depicted in mainstream media. And therefore, neither could understand it completely.

Ted Women 2016

Stranger says,

"The word 'rape' didn’t echo around my head as it should have and I wasn’t crucifying myself of memories of the night before. My definition of my actions completely refuted any recognition of the immense trauma I’d caused Thordis."

Years later, she wrote to Stranger in Australia, in the hopes of "finding forgiveness". She says,

"Regardless or not of whether he deserved my forgiveness, I deserved peace. My era of shame was over."

Ted Women 2016

Stranger wrote back a letter "full with disarming regret". In the following years, both broke their silences and started to heal together, with Stranger "whole-heartedly owning up to what he'd done".