Contact with aliens could 'end life on Earth' expert warn
Contact with aliens could 'end life on Earth', expert warns


As astronomers find ever more powerful ways to look for life elsewhere in the universe, one leading researchers has warned we should be careful what we wish for.

Lucianne Walkowicz, an astrophysicist at the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, told NBC News that in fact, making contact could be catastrophic for the human race.

'There's a possibility that if we actively message, with the intention of getting the attention of an intelligent civilization, that the civilization we contact would not necessarily have our best interests in mind,' she said.

Scroll down for video

Lucianne Walkowicz, an astrophysicist at the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, said making contact could be catastrophic - but could also 'accelerate the ability to live quality lives on Earth'. 'If aliens visit us, the outcome could be much like when Columbus landed in America, which didn't turn out well for the Native Americans,' Stephen Hawking said in a recent interview.

'On the other hand, there might be great benefits.

'It could be something that ends life on Earth, and it might be something that accelerates the ability to live quality lives on Earth.

'We have no way of knowing.'

Stephen Hawking also believes we're playing a dangerous game by trying to contact them.

The physicist believes if aliens discovered Earth, they are likely to want to conquer and colonise our planet.

'If aliens visit us, the outcome could be much like when Columbus landed in America, which didn't turn out well for the Native Americans,' he said in a recent interview.

But co-founder and former director of the Seti Institute, Jill Tarter, doesn't think this will be the case.

She argues any aliens who have managed to travel across the universe will be sophisticated enough to be friendly and peaceful.

'The idea of a civilisation which has managed to survive far longer than we have...and the fact that that technology remains an aggressive one, to me, doesn't make sense,' she said.

Basic protocols for first contact were put in place in the 1980s, but these are merely guidelines, rather than an action plan for dealing with alien contact.

Seth Shostak, who leads efforts to detect radio signals from extraterrestrial civilisations, says that more needs to be done to put an action plan in place.

He says our current response to aliens 'would be like the Neanderthals having a plan in case the US Air Force showed up,'.

Stephen Hawking (left) and billionaire Yuri Milner (right) have their sights set on finding alien life. Now, the first results from a $100 million 'Breakthrough Listen' mission to uncover signals from ET have been released

Mr Shostak is a senior astronomer at the Seti (Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence) Institute in California, where researchers are working to detect radio signals from outer space.

In the 1990s, Mr Shostak chaired a committee that prepared a 'post-detection protocol' for researchers listening for alien transmissions.

But these have remained largely unchanged since then, and are seen as guidelines, rather than a definite plan for dealing with alien contact.

Seth Shostak, who leads efforts to detect radio signals from extraterrestrial civilisations, says that governments have taken little interest in updating the guidelines, and that more needs to be done

Mr Shostak told Live Science that the guidelines say: 'If you pick up a signal, check it out ... tell everybody ... and don't broadcast any replies without international consultation.'

But the protocol has no force of law, and Mr Shostak says that the United Nations has taken little interest in updating them.

He said: 'The US government has shown no interest in SETI research so far.

'It's not a government program, so they have nothing to do with it. I would love to see some interest from them, but I never have.'

In 1997, a SETI false alarm was set off by a signal from a European satellite, but the only response was from journalists.

Mr Shostak said: 'We thought it was possibly the real deal.

'I kept waiting for the Men in Black to show up — they didn't. I kept waiting for the Pentagon to call. I kept waiting for the White House to call. They didn't call. But The New York Times called.'

While detecting radio signals is not as extreme as physically encountering spaceships on Earth, Mr Shostak said that neither situation has a plan.

BREAKTHROUGH LISTEN Breakthrough Listen is a search for intelligent life using two of the world's most powerful telescopes. It was launched in January with the aim of scouring one million of the closest stars to Earth for faint signals thrown out into space by intelligent life beyond our own world. Huge satellites, such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's (CSIRO) are being used to detect radio signals from space Scientists taking part in the $100 million are also scanning the very centre of our galaxy along with 100 of the closest galaxies for low power radio transmissions. Breakthrough Listen will collect data over a 10-year period. Search capacity will be 50 times more sensitive, cover 10 times more of the sky, 5 times more of the radio spectrum, and at speeds 100 times faster.

He said: 'Some people asked me at a conference last week, 'What plan does the military have to deal with aliens should they land?' And I said, 'I don't know … but to the best of my knowledge, they don't have a plan.''

Others have expressed concerns about how we would communicate with aliens.

But Mr Shostak believes that making a good first impression would be key.

'I've been to several conferences where people discuss whether we should tell [aliens] all the bad things about humanity, or just the good things, and that sort of thing,' he said.

'To me, that would be like the indigenous people of Australia seeing Captain Cook coming over the horizon in his ship, then saying, 'We're going to have a couple of conferences to discuss what we're going to talk to these guys about, and what language we'll use' — [but] it doesn't matter.'

Humans have been broadcasting news for years, in the form of television and radio signals.

Mr Shostak said: 'Those signals have been going out into space since the Second World War, so we've already told them we're here.'