The World's Most International Universities In 2017
The World's Most International Universities In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A new report highlights universities in the world with the best international credentials. (Shutterstock) The world is big. But not as big as it used to be. People around the world who are committing their lives to the study of business, science, technology and just about every avenue of academia or industry have more access to one another and their ideas than ever before. Any university that wishes to achieve or maintain greatness and position itself as a quality institution in the future has to emphasize its international connections, attract students and teachers from around the world and, in turn, develop a global reputation. To find out which schools are succeeding in doing just that, we looked to a recent report from Times Higher Education (THE), a U.K.-based magazine that focuses on educational institutions, rating universities on their international reach. We folded this year’s top-10 into a slideshow – complete with each school’s scores – which you can view below. The World's Most International Universities In 2017 In ranking the schools , THE’s report takes into account several factors: the proportions of international students, international staff and journal publications with at least one international co-author. It also weighs a school’s international reputation based on survey. After tallying scores, it turns out that the top two universities in terms of international credentials are based in Switzerland. The third place school is based in China. In the top spot, we find the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, also known as ETH (Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule), located in Zurich, Switzerland. After scoring, THE gave the university a 94.3 for its international reputation and graded it a 98.1 for its proportion of international students, faculty and authors of published papers. Its overall score was 97.1. In second place, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, in Lausanne, Switzerland, received an international reputation score of 91.0, and its student/faculty/author score clocked in at 98.6, for an overall score of 96.7. THE awarded the third place to The University of Hong Kong, awarded the institution an overall score of 96.5. The school received a Staff/Student/Co-Author score of 99.4 and an international reputation score of 88.0. The most represented country in the top 10 is the U.K. with five schools among the them. Those institutions are The Imperial College London (fifth place), the University at Oxford (sixth place), the University of Cambridge (eighth place), the University of London (ninth place) and the London School of Economics and Political Science (10th place). The highest ranking U.S. school, the Massachussetts Institute of Technology, came in 22nd place, between Australia’s Monash University in 22nd and Canada’s McGill University in 23rd. THE noted that U.S. universities tend to score low on the international university rankings because the country’s size make it “less reliant on immigration to supply it with top student and academic talent.” Despite relatively low scoring, the U.S. is the most represented among home countries of universities on the list, with a total 64 schools on the entire roster of 150.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The world is big. But not as big as it used to be. People around the world who are committing their lives to the study of business, science, technology and just about every avenue of academia or industry have more access to one another and their ideas than ever before.

Any university that wishes to achieve or maintain greatness and position itself as a quality institution in the future has to emphasize its international connections, attract students and teachers from around the world and, in turn, develop a global reputation.

To find out which schools are succeeding in doing just that, we looked to a recent report from Times Higher Education (THE), a U.K.-based magazine that focuses on educational institutions, rating universities on their international reach. We folded this year’s top-10 into a slideshow – complete with each school’s scores – which you can view below.

In ranking the schools, THE’s report takes into account several factors: the proportions of international students, international staff and journal publications with at least one international co-author. It also weighs a school’s international reputation based on survey.

After tallying scores, it turns out that the top two universities in terms of international credentials are based in Switzerland. The third place school is based in China.

In the top spot, we find the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, also known as ETH (Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule), located in Zurich, Switzerland. After scoring, THE gave the university a 94.3 for its international reputation and graded it a 98.1 for its proportion of international students, faculty and authors of published papers. Its overall score was 97.1.

In second place, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, in Lausanne, Switzerland, received an international reputation score of 91.0, and its student/faculty/author score clocked in at 98.6, for an overall score of 96.7.

THE awarded the third place to The University of Hong Kong, awarded the institution an overall score of 96.5. The school received a Staff/Student/Co-Author score of 99.4 and an international reputation score of 88.0.

The most represented country in the top 10 is the U.K. with five schools among the them. Those institutions are The Imperial College London (fifth place), the University at Oxford (sixth place), the University of Cambridge (eighth place), the University of London (ninth place) and the London School of Economics and Political Science (10th place).

The highest ranking U.S. school, the Massachussetts Institute of Technology, came in 22nd place, between Australia’s Monash University in 22nd and Canada’s McGill University in 23rd. THE noted that U.S. universities tend to score low on the international university rankings because the country’s size make it “less reliant on immigration to supply it with top student and academic talent.” Despite relatively low scoring, the U.S. is the most represented among home countries of universities on the list, with a total 64 schools on the entire roster of 150.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn