Zenefits Lays Off 430 Employees, One Year After Founder's Departure
Zenefits Lays Off 430 Employees, One Year After Founder's Departure
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Solomon       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Zenefits cofounder and former CEO Parker Conrad, during happier times (Christian Peacock for Forbes) This week, Zenefits hired two new executives to turn around the struggling unicorn startup. Even if they're successful, many employees won't be there to see it. On Thursday, Zenefits' new CEO Jay Fulcher announced in an email to employees that the company would lay off "roughly 430 employees," or the equivalent of nearly half (45%) of the Zenefits' current workforce. Fulcher blamed hyper growth in headcount during Zenefits' early rapid expansion, when the company failed to realize its lofty 2015 goal of hitting $100 million in annual recurring revenue. BuzzFeed News was first to report the layoffs. "In 2015, Zenefits grew too quickly, hiring employees to support revenue projections that far surpass where we are today," Fulcher said in the memo obtained by FORBES. "Today’s action aligns our costs more closely to our business realities and gives us the runway we need to build the business properly for the long term. It is part of an overall turn-around program that began a year ago to correct regulatory compliance issues, reset our culture and values, increase operational efficiency, and introduce a new SaaS platform and business model." The layoffs will affect all departments, but especially the operations side of the business, which will be relocated to Zenefits' Tempe, AZ office and utilize a "seasonal employment model" for the busier winter months. Fulcher suggested that Zenefits would be moving away from its headquarters in expensive San Francisco, noting that the company would "build out our product and engineering teams in Vancouver and Bangalore." In 2016, Zenefits went through two different rounds of layoffs, first cutting 250 staff members , nearly all in sales, and then another 100 employees , closing its Arizona sales office. The moves came after cofounder Parker Conrad resigned as CEO almost exactly one year ago , in the midst of a scandal where Zenefits skirted the laws about selling insurance over its cloud human resources platform. Here's the full letter from Zenefits' CEO Jay Fulcher: All, Today we made some very difficult decisions about how we align our company for the journey ahead. We will be reducing our headcount by roughly 430 employees. These changes are company wide and impact all departments. You will be notified if you are impacted. It is important to note that this is a reduction in force (RIF) - we are not cutting these jobs for performance reasons. We are saying goodbye to many talented people today that have helped build the company to this point, and it is through no fault of their own that we have to let them go. In 2015, Zenefits grew too quickly, hiring employees to support revenue projections that far surpass where we are today. Today’s action aligns our costs more closely to our business realities and gives us the runway we need to build the business properly for the long term. It is part of an overall turn-around program that began a year ago to correct regulatory compliance issues, reset our culture and values, increase operational efficiency, and introduce a new SaaS platform and business model. Now we can responsibly grow the company in a way that is best for our customers, our employees, our partners and our investors. This reset signals our move toward an operating model that is sustainable and better reflects the needs of our current business. We will relocate our operations organization to Tempe, AZ. We will utilize a seasonal employment model for parts of our services organization to accommodate the seasonality of our insurance operations. And we will build out our product and engineering teams in Vancouver and Bangalore to better complement the large team of engineers and product managers we have in San Francisco. All of our colleagues that are affected today have given a piece of their heart to Zenefits. Rest assured, we will be doing all we can to make this transition for them as painless as possible, providing them a generous severance package and job search support. It has been a winding road for this company, but I believe our best work and ability to be the best company we can be is ahead. Few start-ups have a second shot at success - and we do. We defined this market and we now have the opportunity to lead it. If we remain focused on the things that matter - building innovative products, creating great partnerships, and delivering outrageously good customer service and support - that’s just what we’ll do. There has never been more demand for our product than there is today. Our product-market fit is as strong as ever, and our technology and vision is truly the best in the industry. Our customers want us to win and are rooting for us - they don’t want to go back to the pre-Zenefits days of paperwork and frustration. This isn't how any CEO would choose to spend his first week on the job, but I strongly believe these difficult decisions are essential in setting Zenefits up for success. One thing that has already struck me about the people at Zenefits is how much you care - for each other, and for our customers and partners. Zenefits has so much heart and that makes this week very difficult. But we will get through it together. We will grow stronger together. We will make each other proud as we grow this company together. JBF    Trending on {{channel_name}}

This week, Zenefits hired two new executives to turn around the struggling unicorn startup. Even if they're successful, many employees won't be there to see it.

On Thursday, Zenefits' new CEO Jay Fulcher announced in an email to employees that the company would lay off "roughly 430 employees," or the equivalent of nearly half (45%) of the Zenefits' current workforce. Fulcher blamed hyper growth in headcount during Zenefits' early rapid expansion, when the company failed to realize its lofty 2015 goal of hitting $100 million in annual recurring revenue. BuzzFeed News was first to report the layoffs.

"In 2015, Zenefits grew too quickly, hiring employees to support revenue projections that far surpass where we are today," Fulcher said in the memo obtained by FORBES. "Today’s action aligns our costs more closely to our business realities and gives us the runway we need to build the business properly for the long term. It is part of an overall turn-around program that began a year ago to correct regulatory compliance issues, reset our culture and values, increase operational efficiency, and introduce a new SaaS platform and business model."

The layoffs will affect all departments, but especially the operations side of the business, which will be relocated to Zenefits' Tempe, AZ office and utilize a "seasonal employment model" for the busier winter months. Fulcher suggested that Zenefits would be moving away from its headquarters in expensive San Francisco, noting that the company would "build out our product and engineering teams in Vancouver and Bangalore."

In 2016, Zenefits went through two different rounds of layoffs, first cutting 250 staff members, nearly all in sales, and then another 100 employees, closing its Arizona sales office. The moves came after cofounder Parker Conrad resigned as CEO almost exactly one year ago, in the midst of a scandal where Zenefits skirted the laws about selling insurance over its cloud human resources platform.

Here's the full letter from Zenefits' CEO Jay Fulcher:

All, Today we made some very difficult decisions about how we align our company for the journey ahead. We will be reducing our headcount by roughly 430 employees. These changes are company wide and impact all departments. You will be notified if you are impacted. It is important to note that this is a reduction in force (RIF) - we are not cutting these jobs for performance reasons. We are saying goodbye to many talented people today that have helped build the company to this point, and it is through no fault of their own that we have to let them go. In 2015, Zenefits grew too quickly, hiring employees to support revenue projections that far surpass where we are today. Today’s action aligns our costs more closely to our business realities and gives us the runway we need to build the business properly for the long term. It is part of an overall turn-around program that began a year ago to correct regulatory compliance issues, reset our culture and values, increase operational efficiency, and introduce a new SaaS platform and business model. Now we can responsibly grow the company in a way that is best for our customers, our employees, our partners and our investors. This reset signals our move toward an operating model that is sustainable and better reflects the needs of our current business. We will relocate our operations organization to Tempe, AZ. We will utilize a seasonal employment model for parts of our services organization to accommodate the seasonality of our insurance operations. And we will build out our product and engineering teams in Vancouver and Bangalore to better complement the large team of engineers and product managers we have in San Francisco. All of our colleagues that are affected today have given a piece of their heart to Zenefits. Rest assured, we will be doing all we can to make this transition for them as painless as possible, providing them a generous severance package and job search support. It has been a winding road for this company, but I believe our best work and ability to be the best company we can be is ahead. Few start-ups have a second shot at success - and we do. We defined this market and we now have the opportunity to lead it. If we remain focused on the things that matter - building innovative products, creating great partnerships, and delivering outrageously good customer service and support - that’s just what we’ll do. There has never been more demand for our product than there is today. Our product-market fit is as strong as ever, and our technology and vision is truly the best in the industry. Our customers want us to win and are rooting for us - they don’t want to go back to the pre-Zenefits days of paperwork and frustration. This isn't how any CEO would choose to spend his first week on the job, but I strongly believe these difficult decisions are essential in setting Zenefits up for success. One thing that has already struck me about the people at Zenefits is how much you care - for each other, and for our customers and partners. Zenefits has so much heart and that makes this week very difficult. But we will get through it together. We will grow stronger together. We will make each other proud as we grow this company together. JBF

Brian Solomon covers technology and the on-demand economy for Forbes. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.