Woman finds out her and daughter were mixed up at birth
Woman finds out both she and her daughter were mixed up at birth


Already in shock that her daughter was swapped at birth 34 years ago, a Russian woman has found out that she, too, was handed to the wrong mother by the same maternity hospital 22 years earlier.

Alisa Tsyrenova, 56, who was already stunned after meeting her real daughter for the first time, has now found out that her own real parents are not the loving couple who raised her.

Both discoveries were proven by DNA tests which she agreed to undertake so she could know the truth as she undergoes treatment for a life-threatening illness.

Shocked Alisa Tsyrenova (pictured), 56, has found out that both she and her real daughter were switched at birth

Alisa found out that a well-known local artist called Dugarma (pictured) is actually her blood daughter

Alisa Tsyrenova pictured in 1986 soon after she gave birth to blood daughter Dugarma

It was only last week that she discovered the daughter she brought up, named Yulia, was not her real child, but that local artist Dugarma is her blood daughter.

This week came the bombshell that another Soviet blunder at the same Kurumkan district maternity hospital meant her DNA did not match the woman she knew as her sister, Tsytsyg Putushkina, 53.

Researchers from Russian TV talk-show 'Let Them Speak' found out however that Alisa's DNA did match the 'sister' - called Tatiana - of a woman, named Butydma, born around the same time as her in January 1960.

Butydma Budakova, 56, was registered as being born on 17 December 1960, the day before Alisa.

Researchers found out Alisa's (pictured right) DNA did match the 'sister' - called Tatiana (pictured left) - of a woman born around the same time as her

Butydma Budakova, 56, was registered as being born the day before Alisa

Alisa's DNA did not match the woman she knew as her sister, Tsytsyg Putushkina, 53

Tragically Alisa will never know her real parents as they are now dead.

'It is so hard for me... extremely hard to talk,' said Alisa, the moment the double-swap became clear.

'It is very painful.'

She had persuaded Yulia and Dugarma - who she both now calls her daughters - to undergo the first DNA checks after local gossip in the Buryatia region of Russia, close to Lake Baikal.

Her voice charged with emotion, she said: 'I had urged my daughters to make the DNA test, but I was so scared deep inside... I was really shaking.

'But I realised that someone needed to start this, to put the dots (and clarify doubts that had emerged).

Swapped at birth: Lyubov Tsyrenova, Yulia Tsyrenova-Bazarova, Dugarma Tsyrenova, and Alisa Tsyrenova

Tatiana Zhigzhitova also discovered the woman she had known as her sister was not actually a blood relative

Extended family: Dugarma Tsyrenova, Alisa Tsyrenova, Yulia Tsyrenova-Bazarova (with baby), Lyubov Tsyrenova

'If we were all scared of this, we would never know the truth.

'Now we are saying that we will come to terms with it all, that we are strong, and that we will get used to it.

'But those who have never walked in these shoes cannot understand how hard it is.'

It would have been worse to stay in 'obscurity' and not confront the truth, she said, reported The Siberian Times.

'It is the worst thing. It is not easier,' she said.

Just as Yulia and Dugarma had suffered whispers about their real parents, so had she as she grew up a generation earlier, she said.

'Many people say about such cases - now you know the truth so you can live happily ever after.

'They argue the main thing is that your baby did not turn into some drug addicts family.

'But, in fact, in reality, it is very difficult.

All of the switched babies had grown up enduring whispers about their real parentage

The women have said their lives are richer for the fact that their families have become bigger

'If I only knew that this could have happened to me, I would never have let my baby out of my sight from the moment I gave birth. I would grab her and hold near.

'There is a natural instinct, to feed your own baby.

'And it doesn't matter at all if the family is rich or poor. This is an instinct.'

Her father had once hinted to her that she might not be their blood daughter, said Alisa.

'Once my father said casually that there were rumours that I was not their daughter,' she said.

'But I did not really hear him.

Both of the baby swaps happened at Kurumkan maternity hospital - although they took place decades apart

Tsytsyg, left, had asked a TV show to carry out DNA tests after Alisa, right, and other familiy members were interviewed about the swap of Yulia and Dugarma

'I told that him that whatever had happened I loved my family so much. I did not want to hear him then...'

Tsytsyg had asked the TV show to carry out DNA tests after Alisa and other family members were interviewed about the swap of Yulia and Dugarma.

'Alisa will always be my sister,' she said after finding out they are unrelated.

'But now, after we know the results of the test... I see that Alisa has so much in common with her real sister Tatiana, and I have much that is similar to Butydma....

'It is so sad that out parents never learned, that they died unaware...'

Alisa's blood daughter Dugarma, a well-known local artist in Buryatia, who is now getting to know her real mother for the first time, is also coming to terms with the double swap.

'Our families became bigger,' she said, adding that they were 'richer' for it.

'But I remember all those nightmares which were haunting me since I was a teenager (with all the gossip).

'It seems that it is easy, but there is a great deal of work inside us.

'It is difficult, it will take months, years...

'But we are strong, we will cope with this.'