Facebook now provides a full weather forecast
Facebook now provides a full weather forecast


The weather is a fail-safe talking point.

Facebook has long had 'weather greetings' at the top of the news feed - but now it is are expanding its coverage to give you the full forecast.

Weather enthusiasts can also get notifications with more detailed greetings, which will likely be available by the end of the month.

Scroll down for video

Powered by Weather.com, the new Facebook feature gives you a full forecast of the coming week with hourly updates. The feature is accessible from the News Feed or the 'More' menu on the mobile app

Facebook confirmed that the new weather feature has launched to around 95 per cent of global users as of this week, according to Tech Crunch.

Facebook says the new greeting will appear on both desktop and mobile.

The feature is accessible from the News Feed or the 'More' menu on the mobile app.

Powered by Weather.com, it gives you a full forecast of the coming week.

It shows the weather highs and lows, along with a more general forecast - such as whether it will be sunny, cloudy, rainy or stormy.

At the top of the page you can see the forecast on an hour-by-hour basis and weather enthusiasts can even get notifications telling them if there's a storm brewing.

The company says more detailed greetings are currently being tested now - with further updates likely to be available by the end of this month.

The Weather section currently defaults to your location.

However, if you want to find out the weather somewhere else, go to Settings in the top right and add other locations you want to track.

Facebook says the new greeting will appear on both desktop and mobile. The feature is accessible from the News Feed or the 'More' menu on the mobile app

You can also choose to display the information in Celsius or Fahrenheit.

Unfortunately you cannot swipe through multiple locations, so if you want to change to a different location you have to go back to the settings button each time.

'We are doing this because our goal is to develop products that connect people to the things they care about most and create moments of joy in people's day, like simply telling you that it's going to rain later', a Facebook spokesperson said.

This is a new addition to other updates they've already rolled out this year, including the 'Discover People' feature which encourages users to find dates, friends and business connections by meeting strangers through the site.

According to Tech Crunch; 'the goal with the new feature is to keep Facebook users in the app by offering them the information they would otherwise need to look for elsewhere, while also offering similar experiences to those that are found in other third-party mobile applications today'.

Facebook has been contacted for comment.