Badass ballerina Misty Copeland rebuts Under Armour CEO's praise of Trump
Badass ballerina Misty Copeland rebuts Under Armour CEO's praise of Trump
After Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank called President Donald Trump a "real asset to the country" on Tuesday, backlash from consumers online was as swift as it was fierce . Then Steph Curry, Under Armour's most high-profile athlete endorser, joined the conversation by saying Wednesday that he agrees with Plank's assessment — "if you remove the ." Curry also said he wouldn't be above walking away from his Under Armour deal if he felt he had no other moral option. Now badass ballerina Misty Copeland , another major Under Armour partner, is holding Plank's feet to the fire as well. SEE ALSO: The most dad-ass dad sneaker of all time just became even more dad Copeland, who made history in 2015 as the first black principal dancer of the American Ballet Theatre, registered her disapproval of Plank's comments in a heartfelt Instagram post Thursday. In the photo's caption, she wrote that she's "spoken at length with Kevin privately about the matter." I have always appreciated the great support and platform that Under Armour has given me to represent my community, gender, and career on the world stage. However, I strongly disagree with Kevin Plank's recent comments in support of Trump as recently reported. Those of you who have supported and followed my career know that the one topic I've never backed away from speaking openly about is the importance of diversity and inclusion. It is imperative to me that my partners and sponsors share this belief. I have spoken at length with Kevin privately about the matter, but as someone who takes my responsibility as a role model very seriously, it is important to me that he, and UA, take public action to clearly communicate and reflect our common values in order for us to effectively continue to work towards our shared goal of trying to motivate ALL people to be their best selves. A photo posted by Misty Copeland (@mistyonpointe) on It is extremely notable for two major endorsers of a big-time athletic apparel company to publicly rebut that company's CEO, who is also effectively one of their primary employers. Yet Copeland and Curry have both done just that in the span of two days. Safe to say Plank has learned one lesson this week: In 2017, everything's political. BONUS: This blind skater proves that humans are amazing

After Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank called President Donald Trump a "real asset to the country" on Tuesday, backlash from consumers online was as swift as it was fierce.

Then Steph Curry, Under Armour's most high-profile athlete endorser, joined the conversation by saying Wednesday that he agrees with Plank's assessment — "if you remove the et." Curry also said he wouldn't be above walking away from his Under Armour deal if he felt he had no other moral option.

Now badass ballerina Misty Copeland, another major Under Armour partner, is holding Plank's feet to the fire as well.

Copeland, who made history in 2015 as the first black principal dancer of the American Ballet Theatre, registered her disapproval of Plank's comments in a heartfelt Instagram post Thursday.

In the photo's caption, she wrote that she's "spoken at length with Kevin privately about the matter."

It is extremely notable for two major endorsers of a big-time athletic apparel company to publicly rebut that company's CEO, who is also effectively one of their primary employers. Yet Copeland and Curry have both done just that in the span of two days.

Safe to say Plank has learned one lesson this week: In 2017, everything's political.