Man attacked with 'corrosive substance' at Barking station in East London during rush hour
Man attacked with 'corrosive substance' at Barking station in East London during rush hour
A man was attacked with a "corrosive substance" during rush hour at a busy London station. British Transport Police Read more London Underground sees huge spike in reported sex crimes and violence Brothers to be sentenced for acid attack on mother of six Two men and a woman arrested over Southampton acid attack "We are in the early stages of the investigation but early indications suggest the victim and offender may have been known to each other." Witnesses reported the one man threw "something like ammonia" over the other man. One said on Twitter that staff did not initially intervene, which lead to a train being cancelled after one of the men climbed onboard. @javelinsam  @c2c_Rail fight with something like ammonia being thrown - train sits for nearly 5 mins allowing issues like this to occur @MattISpurs  @c2c_Rail two passengers fighting on platform at Barking without no management from staff! @c2c_customers they were on the platform fighting but no one dealt with it! @c2c_customers wasn't on the train, was on the platform! No one dealt with it so one of them climbed on and they cancelled it Another witness, Steve Thomas, said on Facebook that he saw the suspect being handcuffed by police while on the train. He said he "only looked to be a teenager". British Transport Police could not confirm the arrest. A spokesman for the London Ambulance Service told : "We sent an ambulance crew and our hazardous area response unit to the scene. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    7 February 2017   A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London   Reuters     7 February 2017   Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice   Getty Images     2 February 2017   The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being  lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete   PA wire     1 February 2017   The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns   PA wire     31 January 2017   Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA     31 January 2017   Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     31 January 2017   Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     30 January 2017   Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images     30 January 2017   Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters  "We checked over a patient at the scene but did not take them to hospital." has contacted the rail operator responsible for the station, c2c, for comment. More about: Barking c2c train attack British Transport Police London Ambulance Service

A man was attacked with a "corrosive substance" during rush hour at a busy London station.

British Transport Police said they were called to scene following reports of "two passengers fighting" on the platform.

"A man was attacked by someone who threw what is believed to have been a corrosive substance at him," they said in statement, after the incident in the east London suburb of Barking.

"We are in the early stages of the investigation but early indications suggest the victim and offender may have been known to each other."

Witnesses reported the one man threw "something like ammonia" over the other man.

One said on Twitter that staff did not initially intervene, which lead to a train being cancelled after one of the men climbed onboard.

@javelinsam @c2c_Rail fight with something like ammonia being thrown - train sits for nearly 5 mins allowing issues like this to occur — Hippychick52 (@hippychick52) February 9, 2017

@MattISpurs @c2c_Rail two passengers fighting on platform at Barking without no management from staff! — Hippychick52 (@hippychick52) February 9, 2017

@c2c_customers they were on the platform fighting but no one dealt with it! — Hippychick52 (@hippychick52) February 9, 2017

@c2c_customers wasn't on the train, was on the platform! No one dealt with it so one of them climbed on and they cancelled it — Hippychick52 (@hippychick52) February 9, 2017

Another witness, Steve Thomas, said on Facebook that he saw the suspect being handcuffed by police while on the train. He said he "only looked to be a teenager".

British Transport Police could not confirm the arrest.

A spokesman for the London Ambulance Service told The Independent: "We sent an ambulance crew and our hazardous area response unit to the scene.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 7 February 2017 A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London Reuters

2/14 7 February 2017 Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice Getty Images

3/14 2 February 2017 The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete PA wire

4/14 1 February 2017 The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns PA wire

5/14 31 January 2017 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

6/14 31 January 2017 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

7/14 31 January 2017 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

8/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

9/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

10/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

12/14 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/14 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

14/14 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

"We checked over a patient at the scene but did not take them to hospital."

The Independent has contacted the rail operator responsible for the station, c2c, for comment.