Knicks' Dysfunction Has Never Been More Clear Following Charles Oakley Arrest
Knicks' Dysfunction Has Never Been More Clear Following Charles Oakley Arrest
NEW YORK — It was perhaps the most prophetic statement New York Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek has ever muttered. A reporter had just asked him during his press conference prior to Wednesday's game with the Los Angeles Clippers about the dysfunction constantly swirling around the Knicks franchise. The latest cause for concern: Team president Phil Jackson's decision to tweet a message appearing to coyly compliment an article by Bleacher Report's Kevin Ding with the thesis that Carmelo Anthony has never been a winner and never will be. "Has this been even worse than you expected?" the reporter asked. Hornacek's response was telling. "I kind of—not was warned—but expected that there was going to be something all the time," he said, with a smile stretching across his face. "It's lived up to the billing. It's been something out here. So, OK, let's go play a game and try to win." Less than two hours later, during the first quarter of the Knicks' eventual 119-115 loss, play stopped, and the crowd began to yell. There was a commotion in the stands underneath the basket adjacent to the New York bench. Within seconds, Charles Oakley, the 53-year-old former Knicks forward, was being dragged by five security guards back into the bowels of Madison Square Garden, where he was cuffed by a member of the New York City Police Department. "Get these cuffs off me," the 6'8" Oakley yelled outside the tunnel leading onto the MSG court. He then blamed the incident on Knicks owner James Dolan. "I didn't do anything; Dolan started it. This is bulls--t." The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Kristaps Porzingis Slams in the Face of Dwight Howard Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Carmelo Anthony Doesn't Want Any Cheers Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His  Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Carmelo Anthony Drains the 3 for the Lead Against the Bucks Kristaps Porzingis Puts the Moves on the Bucks Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017? James Harden Connects with Montrezl Harrell with the Between-the-Legs Dime Jrue Holiday Dunks on Kristaps Porzingis Isaiah Thomas Scores Career High 52 Points Versus the Miami Heat Tommy Heinsohn Goes Nuts After Isaiah Thomas Scores His 50th Point Giannis Antetokounmpo Blocks the Two-Time Slam Dunk Champ Doc and Austin Rivers Receive 1st-Half Ejections Against the Houston Rockets Kristaps Porzingis Down the Lane for a Jam Lopez Does a Double Clothesline KP in No-Man's Land on Defense KP at 4 Leads to Wide-Open Pacers 3 Knicks Beat Downcourt by Pacers Porzingis Plays Good D at Rim vs. Pacers Clutch Under Pressure: MVP Steph Curry Steps Up with the Game on the Line Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Best Ball-Handlers Kevin Durant Is an Assassin: the Former MVP Leads the NBA's Best Superteam Tim Duncan Ends His Speech with Some Jokes Coach Gregg Popovich Fights Off the Feelings During His Speech Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Howard Beck's NBA Awards at the Quarter-Mark of the Season DeMarcus Cousins Trade Rumors: Is the All-Star Center 'Damaged Goods'? Is the Phil Jackson/Carmelo Anthony Feud Being Blown Out of Proportion? Clutch Curry: Is Steph the Master of Late-Game Heroics? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Biggest Underperformers So Far DeMarcus Cousins Pokes Fun at Joakim Noah's Shooting Form Russell Westbrook Gets His 7th Straight Triple-Double Sam Dekker Posterizes Enes Kanter Cleveland Cavaliers Rick Roll'd Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends There were about a dozen MSG security guards around him. Jackson was attempting to calm him down. Oakley was soon loaded into a police van around 8:50 p.m. ET and driven to a local precinct. Police sources told Bleacher Report that he was charged with three counts of Shortly after the incident, the Knicks released a statement , with a harsh shot at their former player serving as the kicker: "Charles Oakley came to the game tonight and behaved in a highly inappropriate and completely abusive manner. He has been ejected and is currently being arrested by the New York City Police Department. He was a great Knick, and we hope he gets some help soon." Oakley spent 10 seasons in a Knicks uniform but has been estranged from the franchise for years. " Jamie Vitiello, a fan seated in the area, said Oakley was "mildly boisterous to one security guard, but nothing that seemed like he should be kicked out." Multiple other witnesses backed that account. One person thought Oakley might have initially been irked when, upon entering his section, a security guard asked to see his ticket. A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@ bleacherreport ) I thought for a second I was gonna run down there," Clippers head coach Doc Rivers, who played with Oakley in New York, said after the game. "But then I thought, what the hell am I gonna do?" A couple of hours after Oakley had been shuttled out of the arena, Carmelo Anthony stood before dozens of reporters in front of his locker, once again forced to answer questions triggered by a Jackson jab . Earlier this season, Jackson told CBS Sports Network 's that Anthony often holds onto the ball too much. More recently, Charley Rosen, a writer and confidant of Jackson's, wrote a column for FanRag Sports stating "I think anybody would get tired," he said. "I think if you went to work every day and had these spats about you, eventually, you'd get tired unless you were as strong as I am and learn how to deal with it and move on. "I think anybody, any human being, at some point in time would start feeling the weight about it." Does that mean he's now open to discussing a possible trade? "I'm in that building every day until something is said to me directly," Anthony said. That might be the most telling statement of them all. There's nothing wrong with the Knicks wanting to trade Anthony. He's an aging star (33 in May) on the decline for a lottery-bound team. There is, however, a mature and professional way to go about these things. Jackson just needed to have a candid conversation with Anthony. He could have told him it's become clear this team has plateaued, that it needs a change and that he'd like to work with him and figure out options. That's how a functional organization operates and how true leadership works. Of course, Jackson's arrival was supposed to remedy all these issues. Fans were told the presence of an all-time champion at the top of the organization would lead to stability. Instead, the Knicks are now a rudderless franchise, with the team president appearing to disparage his star player on Twitter while apparently refusing to discuss these issues with the player himself—or even the business' customer base (Jackson hasn't spoken publicly since late September). Knicks fans are now left supporting a team ran by a president who's alienated his best player, an owner with a poisonous relationship with a beloved former player and no one to step in and take control. Jackson's apparent ego and arrogance are a problem, and the Knicks will be better off the moment he decides to step away. But it's also worth remembering that New York was a circus long before Jackson arrived. That's no accident either. Players, coaches and presidents have come and gone, with Dolan watching over it all. Competent owners lead to competent organizations. The Knicks will never become the latter as long as James Dolan is in charge.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Ron Turenne/Getty Images

NEW YORK — It was perhaps the most prophetic statement New York Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek has ever muttered.

A reporter had just asked him during his press conference prior to Wednesday's game with the Los Angeles Clippers about the dysfunction constantly swirling around the Knicks franchise. The latest cause for concern: Team president Phil Jackson's decision to tweet a message appearing to coyly compliment an article by Bleacher Report's Kevin Ding with the thesis that Carmelo Anthony has never been a winner and never will be.

"Has this been even worse than you expected?" the reporter asked.

Hornacek's response was telling.

"I kind of—not was warned—but expected that there was going to be something all the time," he said, with a smile stretching across his face. "It's lived up to the billing. It's been something out here. So, OK, let's go play a game and try to win."

Less than two hours later, during the first quarter of the Knicks' eventual 119-115 loss, play stopped, and the crowd began to yell. There was a commotion in the stands underneath the basket adjacent to the New York bench. Within seconds, Charles Oakley, the 53-year-old former Knicks forward, was being dragged by five security guards back into the bowels of Madison Square Garden, where he was cuffed by a member of the New York City Police Department.

"Get these cuffs off me," the 6'8" Oakley yelled outside the tunnel leading onto the MSG court. He then blamed the incident on Knicks owner James Dolan. "I didn't do anything; Dolan started it. This is bulls--t."

The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Kristaps Porzingis Slams in the Face of Dwight Howard Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Carmelo Anthony Doesn't Want Any Cheers Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Carmelo Anthony Drains the 3 for the Lead Against the Bucks Kristaps Porzingis Puts the Moves on the Bucks Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017? James Harden Connects with Montrezl Harrell with the Between-the-Legs Dime Jrue Holiday Dunks on Kristaps Porzingis Isaiah Thomas Scores Career High 52 Points Versus the Miami Heat Tommy Heinsohn Goes Nuts After Isaiah Thomas Scores His 50th Point Giannis Antetokounmpo Blocks the Two-Time Slam Dunk Champ Doc and Austin Rivers Receive 1st-Half Ejections Against the Houston Rockets Kristaps Porzingis Down the Lane for a Jam Lopez Does a Double Clothesline KP in No-Man's Land on Defense KP at 4 Leads to Wide-Open Pacers 3 Knicks Beat Downcourt by Pacers Porzingis Plays Good D at Rim vs. Pacers Clutch Under Pressure: MVP Steph Curry Steps Up with the Game on the Line Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Best Ball-Handlers Kevin Durant Is an Assassin: the Former MVP Leads the NBA's Best Superteam Tim Duncan Ends His Speech with Some Jokes Coach Gregg Popovich Fights Off the Feelings During His Speech Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Howard Beck's NBA Awards at the Quarter-Mark of the Season DeMarcus Cousins Trade Rumors: Is the All-Star Center 'Damaged Goods'? Is the Phil Jackson/Carmelo Anthony Feud Being Blown Out of Proportion? Clutch Curry: Is Steph the Master of Late-Game Heroics? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Biggest Underperformers So Far DeMarcus Cousins Pokes Fun at Joakim Noah's Shooting Form Russell Westbrook Gets His 7th Straight Triple-Double Sam Dekker Posterizes Enes Kanter Cleveland Cavaliers Rick Roll'd Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends

There were about a dozen MSG security guards around him. Jackson was attempting to calm him down. Oakley was soon loaded into a police van around 8:50 p.m. ET and driven to a local precinct. Police sources told Bleacher Report that he was charged with three counts of assault and a misdemeanor of trespassing. He was released from the Midtown South precinct at around 11:30 p.m. with an appearance ticket.

Shortly after the incident, the Knicks released a statement, with a harsh shot at their former player serving as the kicker: "Charles Oakley came to the game tonight and behaved in a highly inappropriate and completely abusive manner. He has been ejected and is currently being arrested by the New York City Police Department. He was a great Knick, and we hope he gets some help soon."

Oakley spent 10 seasons in a Knicks uniform but has been estranged from the franchise for years.

"The boss don't like me," he told Scott Cacciola of the New York Times in November. "I wouldn't mind having a sit-down dinner with Dolan. I wouldn't mind cooking him dinner. ... Might put something in it, though!"

Frank Franklin II/Associated Press

Oakley was sitting one row behind Dolan on Wednesday night. According to the police report, Oakley got into an argument with an MSG employee and was then asked to leave. He refused, police said, and, according to the report, punched three male employees in the face (though videos of the incident captured by fans nearby didn't show Oakley doing so). None required medical attention.

Jamie Vitiello, a fan seated in the area, said Oakley was "mildly boisterous to one security guard, but nothing that seemed like he should be kicked out." Multiple other witnesses backed that account.

One person thought Oakley might have initially been irked when, upon entering his section, a security guard asked to see his ticket. Matthew Barbara, another fan sitting in the area, said Oakley cursed at the section's guard.

"But I didn't hear him say anything to Dolan," he said.

That guard, according to Vitiello, left his post soon after. Another one approached Oakley and told him to stop cursing at the security guards, and that, according to the witnesses, is when things erupted.

"[MSG security] handled it poorly," Jill Guadagno, who was seated two rows behind Oakley and next to Barbara, said. "They never said to him 'calm down.' The only interaction was them saying, 'You need to leave.'"

But all, despite being confused as to what spurred the incident, agreed that Oakley was the first to get physical. In videos of the altercation Oakely can be seen putting his right pointer finger in the face of a security guard and shoved another twice before being forcibly removed to the sound of fans chanting his name—and with NBA Commissioner Adam Silver and Vice President of Basketball Operations Kiki VanDeWeghe looking on from their seats in the lower bowl.

VanDeWeghe, when asked about the incident, declined to comment.

"I thought for a second I was gonna run down there," Clippers head coach Doc Rivers, who played with Oakley in New York, said after the game. "But then I thought, what the hell am I gonna do?"

A couple of hours after Oakley had been shuttled out of the arena, Carmelo Anthony stood before dozens of reporters in front of his locker, once again forced to answer questions triggered by a Jackson jab.

Earlier this season, Jackson told CBS Sports Network's We Need to Talk that Anthony often holds onto the ball too much. More recently, Charley Rosen, a writer and confidant of Jackson's, wrote a column for FanRag Sports stating that Anthony "has outlived his usefulness in New York."

Over the past few weeks, there have been multiple reports that Jackson has talked to teams about trading Anthony, yet according to Anthony, who has a no-trade clause, that's a matter the two have never discussed.

Anthony was asked about drama that's been swirling around him all season and whether having to deal with so much was sapping his energy.

"I think anybody would get tired," he said. "I think if you went to work every day and had these spats about you, eventually, you'd get tired unless you were as strong as I am and learn how to deal with it and move on.

"I think anybody, any human being, at some point in time would start feeling the weight about it."

Does that mean he's now open to discussing a possible trade?

"I'm in that building every day until something is said to me directly," Anthony said.

That might be the most telling statement of them all.

Nathaniel S. Butler/Getty Images

There's nothing wrong with the Knicks wanting to trade Anthony. He's an aging star (33 in May) on the decline for a lottery-bound team. There is, however, a mature and professional way to go about these things. Jackson just needed to have a candid conversation with Anthony. He could have told him it's become clear this team has plateaued, that it needs a change and that he'd like to work with him and figure out options.

That's how a functional organization operates and how true leadership works. Of course, Jackson's arrival was supposed to remedy all these issues. Fans were told the presence of an all-time champion at the top of the organization would lead to stability.

Instead, the Knicks are now a rudderless franchise, with the team president appearing to disparage his star player on Twitter while apparently refusing to discuss these issues with the player himself—or even the business' customer base (Jackson hasn't spoken publicly since late September).

Knicks fans are now left supporting a team ran by a president who's alienated his best player, an owner with a poisonous relationship with a beloved former player and no one to step in and take control.

Jackson's apparent ego and arrogance are a problem, and the Knicks will be better off the moment he decides to step away. But it's also worth remembering that New York was a circus long before Jackson arrived. That's no accident either. Players, coaches and presidents have come and gone, with Dolan watching over it all.

Competent owners lead to competent organizations. The Knicks will never become the latter as long as James Dolan is in charge.

All quotes obtained firsthand unless otherwise noted.

Yaron Weitzman covers the , and other things, for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter @YaronWeitzman and listen to his -themed podcast here.