21 Instant Pot Dinner Ideas You Need To Try
21 Instant Pot Dinner Ideas You Need To Try
Instant Pot Beef Stew number-2-pencil.com Using the sauté function, you’ll sear the meat directly in the pot. Then just toss in the vegetables and stock — and pressure cook everything for 20 minutes. Recipe here. Instant Pot Golden Lentil & Spinach Soup Vegetarian and vegan-friendly — and cooks up in all of 12 minutes. Recipe here . Crispy Chicken Carnitas littlespicejar.com The secret to getting the shredded chicken extra crispy? Tossing it in the broiler for a few minutes before serving. Recipe here . Instant Pot Red Beans & Rice apinchofhealthy.com The red bean mixture freezes really well, so feel free to make a double batch. Recipe here. Pressure Cooker Spaghetti Sauce All the flavor of a classic all-day sauce in a fraction of the time. Recipe here. Teriyaki Turkey Meatballs mommyshomecooking.com This version uses ground turkey, but you could also swap in ground chicken or beef. Recipe here. Pressure Cooker Faux Pho thesophisticatedcaveman.com Ready? Say it three times fast: fauxphofauxphofauxpho.  Recipe here . Vegan Black Bean Soup Topped with fresh avocado. Recipe here. Instant Pot Faux-tisserie Chicken Moment of silence for all that the rotisserie chicken has given us.  Recipe here. Slow Cooker Tortellini Soup with Sausage & Kale The soup simmers low and slow for four hours, then the tortellini is dropped in near the end so it doesn’t overcook. Recipe here. Instant Pot Beef Gyros mycrazygoodlife.com Serve the meat stuffed into pitas, over rice, or on its own. Recipe here. Vegan Chickpea Curry Packed with protein. Recipe here . 5-Ingredient Cheesy Egg Bake kitschencat.com Breakfast for dinner? I’m in. Recipe here. Copycat Chipotle Barbacoa In true Chipotle style, serve this over cilantro rice or wrapped in a tortilla. Recipe here. Spaghetti Squash aggieskitchen.com Spaghetti squash can take forever in the oven, but with this method, it’s ready to go in about 10 minutes. Recipe here. Coconut Lime Quinoa unsophisticook.com You’ll make this using the rice cooker function. Before serving, just top with your favorite meat or veggies. Recipe here . Buffalo Chicken Meatballs whatgreatgrandmaate.com All the flavor of buffalo wings with way less mess. Recipe here. Instant Pot Shepherd’s Pie This version cooks everything in two parts — first you’ll cook the potatoes until they’re mashable. Then you’ll toss in the meat and vegetables. Recipe here. French Dip Sandwiches slowcookergourmet.net This makes enough for eight servings, and includes both slow cooker and pressure cooker instructions. Recipe here. Lentil & Sausage Soup Packed with fresh vegetables. Recipe here. Instant Pot Wendy’s Copycat Chili Hearty, filling, and perfect for winter. Recipe here.   3-Ingredient Mango Sorbet #TastyFreshFriday  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.