Anthony Anderson Learned Proper Oral Sex Technique From His Mom
Anthony Anderson Learned Proper Oral Sex Technique From His Mom
For some, oral sex can be a difficult pleasure to master. Especially whilst underwater . Thankfully, the generous Anthony Anderson is here to relay his own story of oral sex wisdom. As he revealed on Wednesday night, Anderson was taught proper oral technique by his own mother. "I'll just cut to the chase," Anderson told Conan O'Brien and Andy Richter. "My mother taught me how to go downtown. She taught me how to knock your man out the boat." O'Brien, somehow assuming Anderson was referencing the task of getting downtown via public transportation, pushed for a clarification. Related This Glow-in-the-Dark Snorkel Makes Underwater Oral Hella Easy Anthony Anderson's 'Black-ish' Monologue on Trump Is the Definition of Must-Watch TV Anthony Anderson Rips Apart Controversial Actress Stacey Dash "My momma taught me how to eat the cookie," Anderson explained. "Oral sex, Conan. Oral sex." The fateful lesson, he added, was delivered to him in his early 20s. "I had just come home from college and we happened to be sitting around in the family room," Anderson recalled. "Not only me, but my buddies and their girlfriends. And she not only taught me and my brothers and my boys, but also the women, how to do what they needed to do." Anderson's mother's "extensive video collection" was also involved. "She would put, um, she would put the videos on and go into graphic detail as to what was happening on the video and what either me and my brothers or the young ladies should be doing," Anderson said. Her motivation? "My father didn't know how to eat pussy," Anderson said. "So she said, I will be damned if I send my three boys out in the world not knowing how to do that."

For some, oral sex can be a difficult pleasure to master. Especially whilst underwater. Thankfully, the generous Anthony Anderson is here to relay his own story of oral sex wisdom. As he revealed on Conan Wednesday night, Anderson was taught proper oral technique by his own mother.

"I'll just cut to the chase," Anderson told Conan O'Brien and Andy Richter. "My mother taught me how to go downtown. She taught me how to knock your man out the boat." O'Brien, somehow assuming Anderson was referencing the task of getting downtown via public transportation, pushed for a clarification.

"My momma taught me how to eat the cookie," Anderson explained. "Oral sex, Conan. Oral sex." The fateful lesson, he added, was delivered to him in his early 20s. "I had just come home from college and we happened to be sitting around in the family room," Anderson recalled. "Not only me, but my buddies and their girlfriends. And she not only taught me and my brothers and my boys, but also the women, how to do what they needed to do."

Anderson's mother's "extensive video collection" was also involved. "She would put, um, she would put the videos on and go into graphic detail as to what was happening on the video and what either me and my brothers or the young ladies should be doing," Anderson said. Her motivation? "My father didn't know how to eat pussy," Anderson said. "So she said, I will be damned if I send my three boys out in the world not knowing how to do that."