Meghan McCain: Kellyanne Conway Plugging Ivanka's Fashion Line Is 'Unethical'

Meghan McCain: Kellyanne Conway Plugging Ivanka's Fashion Line Is 'Unethical' // // // Thursday morning on "Fox & Friends," President Donald Trump's Senior Counselor Kellyanne Conway discussed the recent decisions by a number of retailers to drop Ivanka Trump's fashion line. At the end of the interview, Conway said, "Go buy Ivanka's stuff," adding that consumers can buy Ivanka's products online. However, this plug did not sit too well with Meghan McCain, who blasted Conway Thursday on "Outnumbered." "That's actually unethical and goes against government regulations, so if you're gonna have an Administration that is essentially hawking material, then they really are a reality television first family in the vain of the Kardashians," McCain said. Conway has received criticism for her comment, with some critics saying that it violates federal ethics rules. During his daily press briefing, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Conway has been "counseled" regarding her comment. JUST IN: @PressSec says @Kellyannepolls “has been counseled on that subject” after she told people to buy @IvankaTrump products. pic.twitter.com/M8WjOLV5Jk — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 9, 2017 What do you think of Conway's plug and McCain's response? Tell us in the comments section.

Thursday morning on "Fox & Friends," President Donald Trump's Senior Counselor Kellyanne Conway discussed the recent decisions by a number of retailers to drop Ivanka Trump's fashion line.

At the end of the interview, Conway said, "Go buy Ivanka's stuff," adding that consumers can buy Ivanka's products online.

However, this plug did not sit too well with Meghan McCain, who blasted Conway Thursday on "Outnumbered."

Kellyanne Conway on Ivanka Trump's Fashion Line: 'Go Buy It Today!'

Report: T.J. Maxx Tells Employees to Discard Ivanka Merchandise Signs

"That's actually unethical and goes against government regulations, so if you're gonna have an Administration that is essentially hawking material, then they really are a reality television first family in the vain of the Kardashians," McCain said.

Conway has received criticism for her comment, with some critics saying that it violates federal ethics rules.

During his daily press briefing, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Conway has been "counseled" regarding her comment.

JUST IN: @PressSec says @Kellyannepolls “has been counseled on that subject” after she told people to buy @IvankaTrump products. pic.twitter.com/M8WjOLV5Jk — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 9, 2017

What do you think of Conway's plug and McCain's response? Tell us in the comments section.

Pres. Trump Meets with Top Airline Executives at White House

Trump Says Judge Gorsuch's Comments 'Misrepresented' by Sen. Blumenthal

Sessions Sworn In as Attorney General as Trump Signs 3 Executive Orders