Arriva Rail North staff to consider strike action over role of train guards

Press Association   Disputes over the role of train guards are set to spread to another rail company after a new strike ballot was announced. The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union said it was in dispute with Arriva Rail North, which runs the Northern franchise, and its members will vote on whether to take action. The union said the company failed to provide any assurances about the future of guards’ roles. The RMT is embroiled in a long-running row with Southern Railway and recently announced a ballot of its members on Merseyrail over the same issue. The RMT general secretary, Mick Cash, said its position on driver-only operation (DOO) was clear, adding: “We will not agree to any extensions of DOO and will fight to retain the safety-critical role of the guard and to keep a guard on the train. “We asked Arriva North whether they were prepared to guarantee a second person on all passenger services operated by the company and whether that second person would retain full operational responsibility, for train despatch, platform train interface and current rule book requirements for dealing with contingency arrangements, such as evacuation and protection of the train. “The response from the company was ‘we are not in a position to offer either of these guarantees at this present time’. This has been particularly disappointing as Arriva North have reneged on their previous position when they stated they were prepared to offer guarantees around a second person on board trains in addition to the driver. “This dispute, and the ballot for industrial action, were entirely preventable if the company had listened to the union’s deep-seated safety concerns, had taken them seriously and had put passenger safety before profit. The union remains available for talks.” An Arriva Rail North spokesman said: “We are in the early stages of developing our modernisation plans to bring customers a better railway, so we believe the RMT is extremely premature in calling a ballot for strikes. “During our discussions this week we offered commitments to consult fully with our people, customers and key stakeholders. “We want to protect jobs and pay as we work together to provide safe, secure and accessible services for our customers. We want to continue talking with the RMT.” Topics  Arriva   Rail transport   Rail industry   RMT   Industrial action     Trade unions   Transport

Disputes over the role of train guards are set to spread to another rail company after a new strike ballot was announced.



The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union said it was in dispute with Arriva Rail North, which runs the Northern franchise, and its members will vote on whether to take action.

The union said the company failed to provide any assurances about the future of guards’ roles.

The RMT is embroiled in a long-running row with Southern Railway and recently announced a ballot of its members on Merseyrail over the same issue.

The RMT general secretary, Mick Cash, said its position on driver-only operation (DOO) was clear, adding: “We will not agree to any extensions of DOO and will fight to retain the safety-critical role of the guard and to keep a guard on the train.

Is Britain’s rail network getting worse? Read more

“We asked Arriva North whether they were prepared to guarantee a second person on all passenger services operated by the company and whether that second person would retain full operational responsibility, for train despatch, platform train interface and current rule book requirements for dealing with contingency arrangements, such as evacuation and protection of the train.

“The response from the company was ‘we are not in a position to offer either of these guarantees at this present time’. This has been particularly disappointing as Arriva North have reneged on their previous position when they stated they were prepared to offer guarantees around a second person on board trains in addition to the driver.

“This dispute, and the ballot for industrial action, were entirely preventable if the company had listened to the union’s deep-seated safety concerns, had taken them seriously and had put passenger safety before profit. The union remains available for talks.”

An Arriva Rail North spokesman said: “We are in the early stages of developing our modernisation plans to bring customers a better railway, so we believe the RMT is extremely premature in calling a ballot for strikes.

“During our discussions this week we offered commitments to consult fully with our people, customers and key stakeholders.

“We want to protect jobs and pay as we work together to provide safe, secure and accessible services for our customers. We want to continue talking with the RMT.”