Glass from nuclear bomb suggests the moon was born DRY
Glass from nuclear test bomb suggests that the moon was born DRY 


In 1945, the US army detonated the first nuclear test bomb at a site in New Mexico, releasing shards of radioactive glass onto the ground in the process.

Researchers have now found an unexpected use for the glass - they are using it to understand how the moon formed 4.5 billion years ago.

Minerals in the glass show surprisingly similar properties to lunar rocks, and suggest that when the moon formed, it contained very little water.

In 1945, the US army detonated the first nuclear test bomb at a site in New Mexico, releasing shards of radioactive glass onto the ground in the process

THE GIANT IMPACT THEORY Many researchers believe the moon formed after Earth was hit by a planet the size of Mars billions of years ago. This is called the giant impact hypothesis. The hypothesis claims the moon is debris left over following an indirect collision between our planet and an astronomical body approximately 4.5 billion years ago. The colliding body is sometimes called Theia, after the mythical Greek Titan who was the mother of Selene, the goddess of the Moon.

The findings provide new evidence to support the 'giant impact theory' of the moon's formation.

Researchers from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, examined the chemical composition of zinc and other volatile elements in glass formed under the extreme temperatures from the 1945 plutonium bomb explosion.

Test samples of the green-coloured glass, known as trinite, were collected between 10 and 250 metres from ground zero at the Trinity test site in New Mexico.

The glass closest to the detonation site was found to have very little volatile elements, such as zinc, compared with samples collected further away.

And the zinc that was present was enriched with less-reactive isotopes, which are forms of these elements with different atomic mass, but the same chemical properties.

This suggests that volatile elements were 'dried out' close to the explosion.

Professor James Day, who led the study, said: 'The results show that evaporation at high temperatures, similar to those at the beginning of planet formation, leads to the loss of volatile elements and to enrichment in heavy isotopes in the left over materials from the event.

'This has been conventional wisdom, but now we have experimental evidence to show it.'

Researchers examined the chemical composition of zinc and other volatile elements in glass formed under the extreme temperatures from the 1945 plutonium bomb explosion

Previous studies have suggested that similar chemical reactions took place when the Earth and a large Mars-sized body collided, producing debris that ultimately formed the moon.

The new study found similarities between trinite and lunar rocks, in that they are both have little volatile elements, and no water.

This provides new evidence to support the 'giant impact theory' of the moon's formation.

The new study found similarities between trinite and lunar rocks, in that they are both have little volatile elements, and no water. This provides new evidence to support the 'giant impact theory' of the moon's formation

The trinite formed at the New Mexico site formed from the heat produced as the nuclear reactions took place.

This study's findings show that volatile elements undergo the same chemical reactions in extreme temperatures in space.

Professor Day said: 'We used what was a history-changing event to scientific benefit, obtaining new and important scientific information from an event over 70 years ago that changed human history forever.'

The Giant Impact theory claims the moon is debris left over following an indirect collision between our planet and an astronomical body approximately 4.5 billion years ago