Recession unlikely, interest rates set to remain steady: RBA Statement on Monetary Policy



Recession unlikely, interest rates set to remain steady: RBA Statement on Monetary Policy

Posted

It is highly unlikely that Australia's economy entered a recession over the second half of last year, the Reserve Bank has concluded in its latest economic update.

However, the bank also used its latest quarterly Statement on Monetary Policy to warn that "a widespread downturn in the housing market" is a "low-probability downside risk".

Before looking far forward in its projections for the next two years, the RBA had to acknowledge errors of the past, with the September quarter's 0.5 per cent economic contraction pulling all its near-term GDP forecasts around 1-percentage-point lower.

"Overall, the forecasts for year-ended GDP growth are lower over the next three quarters than those presented in the November statement, almost entirely due to the base effect of the weak September quarter," the Reserve Bank noted.

However, the bank added that the factors leading to the economic contraction recorded during the September quarter were almost all temporary, such as coal supply disruptions and a fall in building work due to poor weather.

"The weakness is not expected to continue and real GDP looks to have increased in the December quarter," the RBA predicted.

If it the Reserve Bank is correct, that will mean Australia has yet again dodged a "technical recession" - defined as two consecutive quarters of economic growth - a definition that most economists view as somewhat unhelpful and simplistic.

However, while the bank was forced to downgrade its near-term economic growth forecasts, the core December inflation figure came in a fraction above its previous forecast and the June 2017 figure of 1.75 per cent is expected to be closer to the middle of its earlier forecast, rather than at the very bottom end.

"Global inflationary pressures are somewhat stronger than they have been for some time, because of accommodative policy settings, the recent increases in commodity prices and limited spare capacity in a number of advanced economies," the bank noted.

That said, the RBA does not expect inflation rise firmly back within its 2-3 per cent target band until the middle of 2019, indicating no rush to raise interest rates in response to consumer price pressures.

Factored into this moderate inflation forecast is the expectation that commodity prices will give up some of their gains of the past year as demand levels off and extra supply comes online, although the RBA is not expecting them to fall back as far as their recent troughs.

Stagnant jobs market, property investor risks

For the first time, the Reserve Bank has published its specific point forecasts for unemployment over the next couple of years, and the news is not great for job seekers.

With population growth expected to remain around 1.5-1.6 per cent per annum, the economy is not expected to generate more jobs than needed just to soak up the larger labour force.

Unemployment is currently 5.8 per cent, and is forecast to remain stuck between 5-6 per cent until at least June 2019.

The biggest risks to these forecasts remain China and Australia's housing market, particularly in the two biggest cities.

Should China experience a policy or debt-crisis induced economic slowdown, particularly in housing construction, the prices of Australia's commodity exports could fall much more quickly than currently anticipated.

Equally, the RBA noted the risk that a "widespread downturn in the housing market could mean that a more significant share of projects currently in the residential construction pipeline is not completed than is currently assumed".

The RBA described this as a "low-probability downside risk" but noted that a range of factors could lead to such a situation.

"Although investor activity is currently quite strong, at least in Sydney and Melbourne, history shows that sentiment can turn quite quickly, especially if prices start to fall," the RBA cautioned.

"Softer underlying demand for housing, for example because of a slowing in population growth or heightened concerns about household indebtedness, could also possibly prompt such a reassessment."

Topics: money-and-monetary-policy, economic-trends, business-economics-and-finance, australia