God help us all, Martha Stewart's truck is stuck in the snow
God help us all, Martha Stewart's truck is stuck in the snow
Grab a shovel and your winter trekking gear, we're organizing a posse to save Martha Stewart. We aren't sure where she is, but Stewart tweeted a picture of herself stuck in the snow in a plow truck. So grab your stuff. Pack light, we leave in five. SEE ALSO: East Coast blizzard got you down? Cute animals in the snow are here to help. Plowing the four miles of roads on my farm I get stuck right by my house Waiting for a tractor to tow me out! A photo posted by Martha Stewart (@marthastewart48) on "I decided to plow now I am stuck darn!!!!!" writes Stewart , social media's most authentic celebrity. I decided to plow  now I am stuck  darn!!!!! pic.twitter.com/htdUI9iXfW — Martha Stewart (@MarthaStewart) February 9, 2017 is right. is our rallying call. the odds, we must rescue Martha. Instagram has informed me that @MarthaStewart is stuck in the snow. @God help her — pwr bttn (@PWRBTTMBAND) February 9, 2017 MY PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU STAY WARM AND SAFE @MarthaStewart — cale g weissman (@caleweissman) February 9, 2017 MARTHA STEWART IS HARD AS FUCK AND DON'T YOU FORGET IT FOR A SECOND https://t.co/uS3cLO8Lwm — Anne T. Donahue (@annetdonahue) February 9, 2017 in a constant struggle of wanting to tweet "celebrities are not your friends" and wanting to retweet Martha Stewart stuck in a snow plow — pkrang (@pussykrang) February 9, 2017 Will you answer the call? Will you help Martha? The world is watching. BONUS: Seriously, stop telling everyone how SUPER chill your Valentine's Day will be

Grab a shovel and your winter trekking gear, we're organizing a posse to save Martha Stewart.

We aren't sure where she is, but Stewart tweeted a picture of herself stuck in the snow in a plow truck. So grab your stuff. Pack light, we leave in five.

Plowing the four miles of roads on my farm I get stuck right by my house Waiting for a tractor to tow me out! A photo posted by Martha Stewart (@marthastewart48) on Feb 9, 2017 at 7:26am PST

"I decided to plow now I am stuck darn!!!!!" writes Stewart, social media's most authentic celebrity.

I decided to plow now I am stuck darn!!!!! pic.twitter.com/htdUI9iXfW — Martha Stewart (@MarthaStewart) February 9, 2017

Darn is right.

Darn is our rallying call.

Darn the odds, we must rescue Martha.

Instagram has informed me that @MarthaStewart is stuck in the snow. @God help her — pwr bttn (@PWRBTTMBAND) February 9, 2017

MY PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU STAY WARM AND SAFE @MarthaStewart — cale g weissman (@caleweissman) February 9, 2017

MARTHA STEWART IS HARD AS FUCK AND DON'T YOU FORGET IT FOR A SECOND https://t.co/uS3cLO8Lwm — Anne T. Donahue (@annetdonahue) February 9, 2017

in a constant struggle of wanting to tweet "celebrities are not your friends" and wanting to retweet Martha Stewart stuck in a snow plow — pkrang (@pussykrang) February 9, 2017

Will you answer the call? Will you help Martha? The world is watching.