Canada's Best Employers 2017
Canada's Best Employers 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Ontario Hall building on campus of Queen's University in Kingston, Canada. (Photo: Shutterstock) An educational institution older than the country itself vaulted to the top of FORBES’s 2017 roster of Canada’s best employers, surpassing power players from a number of different industries in the Great White North. Queens University – a 175 year-old research university based in Kingston, Ontario, with an enrollment of more than 22,000 and nearly 5,900 employees – jumped from 17th place to top the list. Also performing well this year is Nav Canada, in second place. The private non profit is the country’s air navigation service provider and manages some 12 million aircraft movements per year. It leapt from No. 28 on FORBES’s Best Employers list last year. Canada's Best Employers 2017 How do we at FORBES decide which of Canada’s large companies and organizations deserve to be labeled the country’s best employers? We don’t— their employees do. In collaboration with online statistics provider Statista , FORBES asked 8,000 Canadian employees – 81% full-timers – working for large firms or institutions to rate their willingness to recommend their own companies on a scale of 1 to 10. The employees who took part in the survey were consulted not via their employers but anonymously through several online access panels. Data was recorded this past September. Respondents were also asked to name good or bad employers in sectors or industries besides their own. The top 300 employers – representing 25 different industries – were highlighted based on the results. Other high-placed companies include Toronto Hydro, an electricity distribution company with nearly 1,500 employees, which came in third place, up from its eighth place result last year. Google followed in fourth place, and SASKPower in fifth. Other firms that maintained their spots in the top 10 are Costco and Ubisoft, a French video game company with a presence in Montreal, Toronto, Quebec and Halifax. A number of companies fell dramatically from their perch. Mercedes-Benz, which held the 11th place spot last year, plummeted this year to 67th place. The University of Guelph, which was last year’s number six, fell to 63rd place in the latest results. Toronto’s Sheridan College, which placed 13th last year, dropped off the list completely. Organizations at the very top of the 2016 ranking suffered as well. Zurich-based tech firm ABB’s Canadian arm placed third last year only to fall to 17th this year. Also, 2016’s second place company, Vancity, a banking business based in Vancouver, fell to 39th and last year’s best employer, electric utility company BC Hydro, sank to 24th in 2017.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

An educational institution older than the country itself vaulted to the top of FORBES’s 2017 roster of Canada’s best employers, surpassing power players from a number of different industries in the Great White North. Queens University – a 175 year-old research university based in Kingston, Ontario, with an enrollment of more than 22,000 and nearly 5,900 employees – jumped from 17th place to top the list.

Also performing well this year is Nav Canada, in second place. The private non profit is the country’s air navigation service provider and manages some 12 million aircraft movements per year. It leapt from No. 28 on FORBES’s Best Employers list last year.

How do we at FORBES decide which of Canada’s large companies and organizations deserve to be labeled the country’s best employers? We don’t— their employees do.

In collaboration with online statistics provider Statista, FORBES asked 8,000 Canadian employees – 81% full-timers – working for large firms or institutions to rate their willingness to recommend their own companies on a scale of 1 to 10. The employees who took part in the survey were consulted not via their employers but anonymously through several online access panels. Data was recorded this past September.

Respondents were also asked to name good or bad employers in sectors or industries besides their own. The top 300 employers – representing 25 different industries – were highlighted based on the results.

Other high-placed companies include Toronto Hydro, an electricity distribution company with nearly 1,500 employees, which came in third place, up from its eighth place result last year. Google followed in fourth place, and SASKPower in fifth. Other firms that maintained their spots in the top 10 are Costco and Ubisoft, a French video game company with a presence in Montreal, Toronto, Quebec and Halifax.

A number of companies fell dramatically from their perch. Mercedes-Benz, which held the 11th place spot last year, plummeted this year to 67th place. The University of Guelph, which was last year’s number six, fell to 63rd place in the latest results. Toronto’s Sheridan College, which placed 13th last year, dropped off the list completely.

Organizations at the very top of the 2016 ranking suffered as well. Zurich-based tech firm ABB’s Canadian arm placed third last year only to fall to 17th this year. Also, 2016’s second place company, Vancity, a banking business based in Vancouver, fell to 39th and last year’s best employer, electric utility company BC Hydro, sank to 24th in 2017.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn