Lawyer accused of beating boys sacked as church leader
Lawyer accused of beating boys sacked as church leader


John Smyth (pictured) is being investigated by Hampshire Police over claims he forced boys to strip naked before beating them

A barrister accused of subjecting boys to sadomasochistic beatings at British Christian holiday camps in the 1970s and 80s has now been stripped of his role as a church leader in South Africa.

John Smyth QC was removed as a leader at Church-on-Main when new allegations emerged about him and his 'discipleship' of young men, after shocking UK abuse claims.

Elders said that members had 'worrying concerns' about Smyth, 75, who has been mentoring and counselling young people for the Cape Town church and met many of them in private.

The news comes after Channel 4 News aired shocking allegations that Smyth beat boys so savagely that they needed nappies at British camps, where the Archbishop of Canterbury also worked.

In a statement to Channel 4 News, his South African church said: 'His practice of meeting young men at a well know Cape Town sports club that began with a game of squash, was followed by a shower in a common shower, then lunch over which we were told John would make generally unsolicited enquiries about the young men's experience of pornography, masturbation and other sexual matters.'

The church was also concerned that he had offered 'advice regarding sexual matters that left the person feeling uncomfortable' during meetings with the young men they have spoken to.

Smyth is now being investigated by Hampshire police over claims he forced a string of boys to strip naked before beating them to purge them of their sins while at church camps he ran.

The Archbishop of Canterbury issued an ‘unreserved and unequivocal’ apology on behalf of the Church of England after the Channel 4 investigation, admitting that he remained in contact with the abuse suspect.

Smyth is accused of beating the boys in his garden shed while chairman of the Iwerne Trust, which ran Christian holiday camps for some of Britain's top public school children.

John and Anne Smith (pictured left and right) packed up and left their home in Cape Town, South Africa, prompting colleagues in the church and the lawyer's own children to call for him to come forward and confront the 'horrific allegations' against him

The Church discovered the alleged abuse in 1982 but failed to report it to police, it was revealed. Winchester College, where some of the alleged victims met Mr Smyth, was also aware of the allegations but reportedly did not alert police.

Approached on camera, Mr Smyth, a QC and part-time judge, said: ‘I’m not talking about what we did at all.’ Since then, new allegations have emerged about Smyth, who has now packed up and left his home in Cape Town with his wife Anne.

The part-time judge, who has been likened to a 'cult leader', moved to Zimbabwe in 1984 after British assault allegations emerged, and founded a series of Christian camps.

More victims alleged abuse and Zimbabwean later charged him for culpable homicide when 16-year-old boy drowned during an evening 'skinny dip' ordered by Smyth, although the case collapsed.

The South African Church said it first became aware about allegations about Mr Smyth last September after receiving a call from a man in Zimbabwe who had attended one of his Christian summer camps.

It was then that the church says it first became aware that allegations had been made against Mr Smyth in the UK.

Priest Andrew Thompson admitted that he and other church leaders ‘feel completely broken’ by allowing Smyth to mentor young men at the Cape Town church (pictured)

Andrew Thompson from the church challenged Mr Smyth on the allegations in Zimbabwe and in the UK on September 15 last year, the church said.

'John stated that the case in Zimbabwe had been brought by himself to the Supreme Court in order to clear his name of what he viewed as malicious rumours and unfair accusation swirling at the time. He also led Andrew to believe that there was nothing in his past in the UK that we needed to know about,' the statement says.

QC ADMITS HE WILL BEAT AND SHOWER WITH BOYS IN LETTER The part-time judge, who has been likened to a 'cult leader', moved to Zimbabwe in 1984 after British assault allegations emerged in 1982, and founded a series of Christian camps at which alleged victims claim he again abused teenagers. At one camp a 16-year-old boy drowned during an evening 'skinny dip' ordered by Smyth. Smyth was charged with culpable homicide in 1997 in the wake of the death and several other boys came forward to claim he had beaten them and forced them to swim naked while he watched, although both cases collapsed. A letter emerged, signed by the barrister and printed on the letterhead of his Zambesi Holidays firm, that was sent to parents of boys booked to attend a camp at the Ruzawi School, an elite boarding school in the north-east of Zimbabwe. In it, Mr Smyth said that he wanted to create a 'relaxed family atmosphere' but admitted the likelihood that he would beat the boys and take showers with them. He wrote in the note, published in the Telegraph: 'I am determined that we should avoid a school atmosphere as far as possible. I am not a schoolmaster; I try instead to be something of a father figure to the camp, encouraging the younger leaders to care for their campers in the way the best of big brothers should. 'To this end we use Christian names all round, the younger leaders sleep in the dormitories with their campers, and we all (including myself from time to time) have our showers with the boys.' The barrister, who was described by the Archbishop of Canterbury as a 'delightful' man, also explained that he intended to impose a regime of corporal punishment. He told parents: 'We must, however, have good discipline and experience has shown that with so many high-spirited boys we need some form of sanction. I never cane the boys, but I do whack them with a table tennis bat when necessary. 'Such are the opportunities for pranks that I sometimes have to use this fairly liberally to deter high-spirited naughtiness and to ensure obedience and reasonable standards of tidiness.

The Church says Mr Smyth and his wife Anne responded by making accusations against members of the church and withdrawing from meetings. They claims that Smyth then refused to meet with them, despite numerous requests.

The church added: 'Given that our concerns remained unresolved and their resistance in meeting with us, we felt that we could no longer endorse John and Anne Smyth as leaders, in any capacity, in Church-on-Main.'

'We communicated this to John and Anne in an email which we sent to them on 2 December 2016. In it, we made it clear that we were removing them from their roles as leaders at Church-on-Main [and] that we continued to have unresolved issues and concerns about John's pastoral practice.'

The Church says they did not meet with Mr Smyth until January 30 when he asked the pastor to come to his house and discuss allegations scheduled to be broadcast by Channel 4 News the following week.

The church added: 'This was the first time any elder at Church-on-Main was made aware of the nature and the gravity of the allegations about John's ministry in the UK. Present at this meeting was a member of the NGO that John led at the time.

'John was requesting that Andrew as his pastor would call the UK and vouch for him saying that he was in good standing in the church community. At this point Andrew said this was not possible as John was currently suspended from leadership and that there were unresolved issues between John and the elders of Church-on-Main.'

'In our meeting John did acknowledge that something of a serious nature had taken place in the UK and that he did regret certain occurrences from his past.'

'John also stated that in his opinion many of the allegations from the UK were inaccurate and grossly exaggerated. He told us he had been given counsel not to talk about what had happened in his past.'

The church today made it clear that it had no evidence that any criminal acts had taken place, or that there had been physical contact between Mr Smyth and the young men.

But it said complaints had also been made about Smyth's 'heavy handed style of leadership'. Members said he 'became upset with individuals when they failed to meet up to his suggested commitment towards his meetings and forums.'

During his time as leader, Smyth met in private with ‘predominantly young men of university-going age’, his pastor Andrew Thompson told MailOnline earlier this week.

He has urged Mr Smyth to turn himself in to UK police and face questioning, as well as offering help to young men that he was given access to.

The Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby (pictured today) speaks to the press after issuing an apology on behalf of the Church of England following the accusations levied at John Smyth

Mr Thompson said: ‘We had John and Anne as part of our broader leadership team - equivalent to small group leaders. They hosted discipleship meetings and met to council individuals predominantly young men of university going age.

'As news has broken and we have made ourselves available to the community for anyone to come forward. We feel completely broken at any risk or harm we may have presented. We had knowledge of the drowning in Zim and some questions surrounding the holiday camps there but no knowledge of prior UK stories.’

After the news broke, Mr Thompson, told the hushed, packed congregation in Wynberg, that help would be offered to those who had confided in Mr Smyth.

Justin Welby was a dormitory officer at an Iwerne Trust camp where Mr Smyth was one of the main leaders in the late Seventies. They later exchanged ‘the occasional card’

'A fair number of people... have had moments of counselling and group discipleship with John,' Mr Thompson said. He added that elders were available 'should anyone feel the need to discuss the nature of' or content of' their experience'.

'If our having had John as a leader of a discipleship group or his role in any form of ministry has led to hurt or risk to anyone, or to bringing the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ into disrepute in any way, for this we apologise,' added Mr Thompson.

As reports of the perverse violence first emerged, the disgraced lawyer's pastor son PJ Smyth told his followers at the Covenant Life Church in Maryland: 'These are horrific allegations and if proven true it is right that my father face justice.'

In a strongly-worded statement read out to a packed church, he told a shocked congregation that Smyth should 'admit if necessary to any accusation that holds substance and apologise, asking for forgiveness and mercy'.

He added: 'My father disciplined me in a manner consistent with the laws and cultural trends of the UK at the time, not in a manner alleged in the recent reports.

'We moved to Zimbabwe when I was 13. My father told me that he felt called out of the legal profession into full-time Christian work. I attended a number of Zambesi Holidays camps and I was never aware of any abuse.

'During the early 1990s, when I was studying in South Africa, I was aware that a delegation of pastors and parents insisted that my father and the board of Zambesi Holidays make adjustments to camp life, which they did. I do clearly remember the tragic drowning of a fellow camper one year. It was devastating to his family and to all of us who knew him.

At his evangelical church in Cape Town, the couple's priest confirmed he had been in touch with the Smyths and instructed them to stay away from its services and meetings until the allegations of 'terrible misconduct' against the former part-time judge are resolved

During his time at Winchester College in the late Seventies and Eighties, Mr Smyth met many teenagers, and is said to have invited those he favoured to his home for Sunday lunch

'In my twenties I gradually became aware that there had been issues surrounding my father's ministry in the UK. Nothing specific but I remember hearing some of my parents' friends say things like "of course those were difficult years for your dad". However, I assumed that it was something relatively minor and it never occurred to me to press my father for detail.

'I believe that the civil authorities are given by God to help protect against wrong-doing. I am firmly committed to reporting any form of child abuse to the authorities.'

At his evangelical church in Cape Town, the couple's priest confirmed he had been in touch with the Smyths and instructed them to stay away until the allegations of 'terrible misconduct' are resolved.

The couple left their home last Friday as allegations of excessive corporal punishment in naked boys emerged in interviews with his victims, who spoke to Channel 4 News.

Last week, one of the Smyths daughters, who did not wish to be identified, called on her father to come forward and confront allegations against him. Yesterday, her brother PJ joined the chorus for their father to present himself.