Malcolm Turnbull-Donald Trump call making Beijing nervous to pick up the phone



Malcolm Turnbull-Donald Trump call making Beijing nervous to pick up the phone

Posted

For the first three weeks of the Donald Trump presidency, the lack of a phone call between the new American leader and his Chinese counterpart appeared to confirm the worst — that the White House was preparing for rough relations with Beijing.

Given that Mr Trump had called world leaders including Russia's Vladimir Putin, many people in Beijing wondered if he had deliberately snubbed Xi Jinping — the leader of the world's second largest economic and military power.

Already Chinese social media users had noted Mr Trump had not personally issued a message for the Lunar New Year.

Earlier diplomatic flare-ups about his phone call with Taiwan's President prior to his swearing-in, and tough talk about a trade war also raised concerns.

But now a theory is emerging that the reluctance to pick up the phone goes both ways.

And Mr Trump's notoriously frank exchange with Malcolm Turnbull over a refugee swap deal has spooked the leadership in Beijing.

As has been well publicised, details of the Trump-Turnbull call were leaked to the United States media, appearing to show Mr Trump furious about the refugee swap deal, and ending the conversation before the allocated time.

While both leaders later played down the headlines, it nonetheless raised concerns Mr Trump's unorthodox style could turn a routine diplomatic call into a major point of friction.

China's political culture could not be more different from the US.

Chinese leaders like total control, and would be highly cautious about a phone call that could easily veer from a familiar diplomatic script, with the details leaking to the US media.

Analysts in China are divided about whether Mr Trump is a political mastermind or genuinely ignorant about China's foreign policy.

One US-relations expert pointed out that turbulence in the relationship is the historical norm at the outset of new American administrations — with the exception of Barack Obama.

Another attributed Mr Trump's lack of foreign policy specifics to his supporters, saying the US leader knew they would rather hear about domestic issues.

Overall, there is a fair degree of optimism the new US leader does know what he's doing, and much of his rhetoric is gamesmanship to try to extract a more favourable trade position.

Whether that's possible is another story.

But on the foreign policy front, the past few days have eased many of the Chinese concerns.

Two of Mr Trump's top appointees have softened their tough talk on confronting Beijing over its new military bases in the disputed South China Sea, while Mr Trump himself has broken the ice with a letter to Mr Xi.

He not only called for a "constructive relationship", he also wished the Chinese people a "prosperous Year of the Rooster".

That phone may be ringing soon.

Topics: government-and-politics, world-politics, business-economics-and-finance, china, united-states