Beyonce, The Chainsmokers, Drake & More Top Instagram's 2017 Grammy Predictions
Beyonce, The Chainsmokers, Drake & More Top Instagram's 2017 Grammy Predictions
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Beyonce, The Chainsmokers, Drake & More Top Instagram's 2017 Grammy Predictions  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  With the Grammy Awards approaching on Sunday, Instagram has shared its predictions for winners in some of the event's top categories.Â To form its predictions, Instagram measured each nominees' buzz since their names were announced by the Recording Academy on Dec. 6. Looking at the top three picks in each of the major award categories, the data rankings are based on the total global number of Instagram mentions for each song, record, album or artist, in posts' captions or comments.Â Per Instagram's predictions, Beyonce , more than any other act, will come out on top of the Grammy Awards, with wins for song of the year with "Formation" and picking up album of the year. Elsewhere, The Chainsmokers are expected to win the best new artist award and Drake 's to win the best rap album category. See the full list below.Â  Instagram also measured the nominees' buzz by followers and growth of new followers since that Dec. 6 announcement. Ariana Grande -- who is nominated for best pop vocal album and best pop solo performance for and its titular track, respectively -- topped each of these categories: She gained 5 million followers in this time, holding the most amount of followers out of any other nominee with 95.9 million total and the most total global number of Instagram mentions in the time period.Â 1. The Chainsmokers 2. Chance the Rapper 3. Anderson .Paak 1. "Formation" - Beyonce 2. "Hello" - Adele 3. "Love Yourself" - Justin Bieber 1. - Beyonce 2. - Adele 3. - Drake 1. "Exchange" - Bryson TillerÂ 2. "Luv" - Tory Lanez 3. "Kiss It Better" - Rihanna 1. "Heathens" - Twenty One Pilots 2. "Blackstar" - David Bowie 3. "Hardwired" - Metallica 1. "Famous" - Kanye West feat. Rihanna 2. "Hotline Bling" - DrakeÂ 3.Â "No Problem" - Chance The Rapper feat Lil Wayne & 2 Chainz 1. - Â DrakeÂ 2. - Chance The Rapper 3. - Kanye West 1. "Humble and Kind" - Tim McGraw 2. "Vice" - Miranda Lambert 3. "Die a Happy Man" - Thomas Rhett 1. Ariana Grande (@arianagrande)- Ariana Grande has gained more than 5 million followers. 2. Beyonce (@beyonce) - Beyonce has gained more than 4.2 million followers. 3. Shakira (@shakira) - Shakira has gained more than 3.2 million followers. 4. Drake (@champagnepapi) - Drake has gained more than 2.4 million followers. 5. Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) - Demi Lovato has gained more than 2.4 million followers. 6. Rihanna (@badgalriri) - Rihanna has gained more than 2.1 million followers. 7. Adele (@adele) - Adele has gained more than 1.6 million followers. 8. Justin Timberlake (@justintimberlake) - Justin Timberlake has gained more than 1.3 million followers. 9. Twenty One Pilots (@twentyonepilots) - Twenty One Pilots has gained more than 600,000 followers. 10. Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) - Chance The Rapper has gained more than 500,000 followers. 1. Ariana Grande (@arianagrande) - More than 95.9 million followers. 2. Beyonce (@beyonce) - More than 94 million followers. 3. Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) - More than 53 million followers. 4. Rihanna (@badgalriri) - More than 48.8 million followers. 5. Justin Timberlake (@justintimberlake) - More than 40.4 million followers. 1. Ariana Grande 2. Adele 3. Rihanna 1. The Chainsmokers 2. Chance the Rapper 3. Anderson .Paak  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Beyonce performs during The Formation World Tour at the Rose Bowl on May 14, 2016 in Pasadena, Calif.

With the Grammy Awards approaching on Sunday, Instagram has shared its predictions for winners in some of the event's top categories.Â

To form its predictions, Instagram measured each nominees' buzz since their names were announced by the Recording Academy on Dec. 6. Looking at the top three picks in each of the major award categories, the data rankings are based on the total global number of Instagram mentions for each song, record, album or artist, in posts' captions or comments.Â

Per Instagram's predictions, Beyonce, more than any other act, will come out on top of the Grammy Awards, with wins for song of the year with "Formation" and Lemonade picking up album of the year. Elsewhere, The Chainsmokers are expected to win the best new artist award and Drake's Views to win the best rap album category. See the full list below.Â

Instagram also measured the nominees' buzz by followers and growth of new followers since that Dec. 6 announcement. Ariana Grande -- who is nominated for best pop vocal album and best pop solo performance for Dangerous Woman and its titular track, respectively -- topped each of these categories: She gained 5 million followers in this time, holding the most amount of followers out of any other nominee with 95.9 million total and the most total global number of Instagram mentions in the time period.Â

Best New Artist:

1. The Chainsmokers

2. Chance the Rapper

3. Anderson .Paak

Song of the Year:

1. "Formation" - Beyonce

2. "Hello" - Adele

3. "Love Yourself" - Justin Bieber

Album of the Year:

1. Lemonade - Beyonce

2. 25 - Adele

3. Views - Drake

Best R&B Song:

1. "Exchange" - Bryson TillerÂ

2. "Luv" - Tory Lanez

3. "Kiss It Better" - Rihanna

Best Rock Song:

1. "Heathens" - Twenty One Pilots

2. "Blackstar" - David Bowie

3. "Hardwired" - Metallica

Best Rap Song:

1. "Famous" - Kanye West feat. Rihanna

2. "Hotline Bling" - DrakeÂ

3.Â "No Problem" - Chance The Rapper feat Lil Wayne & 2 Chainz

Best Rap Album:

1. Views - Â DrakeÂ

2. Coloring Book - Chance The Rapper

3. The Life of Pablo - Kanye West

Best Country Song:Â

1. "Humble and Kind" - Tim McGraw

2. "Vice" - Miranda Lambert

3. "Die a Happy Man" - Thomas Rhett

Follower Growth: Official ranking of the top 10 nominees that have gained the most followers on Instagram, on Dec. 6, 2016:

1. Ariana Grande (@arianagrande)- Ariana Grande has gained more than 5 million followers.

2. Beyonce (@beyonce) - Beyonce has gained more than 4.2 million followers.

3. Shakira (@shakira) - Shakira has gained more than 3.2 million followers.

4. Drake (@champagnepapi) - Drake has gained more than 2.4 million followers.

5. Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) - Demi Lovato has gained more than 2.4 million followers.

6. Rihanna (@badgalriri) - Rihanna has gained more than 2.1 million followers.

7. Adele (@adele) - Adele has gained more than 1.6 million followers.

8. Justin Timberlake (@justintimberlake) - Justin Timberlake has gained more than 1.3 million followers.

9. Twenty One Pilots (@twentyonepilots) - Twenty One Pilots has gained more than 600,000 followers.

10. Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) - Chance The Rapper has gained more than 500,000 followers.

The top five most-followed 2017 Grammy nominees:

1. Ariana Grande (@arianagrande) - More than 95.9 million followers.

2. Beyonce (@beyonce) - More than 94 million followers.

3. Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) - More than 53 million followers.

4. Rihanna (@badgalriri) - More than 48.8 million followers.

5. Justin Timberlake (@justintimberlake) - More than 40.4 million followers.

Fan Favorites: Rankings of total global number Instagram mentions for each artist since Grammy nominations were announced on Dec. 6, 2016.

1. Ariana Grande

2. Adele

3. Rihanna

Breakout Fan Favorites:Â Rankings of total global numberÂ InstagramÂ mentions for each artist nominated in theÂ best new artist category since Grammy nominations were announced on Dec. 6, 2016.

1. The Chainsmokers

2. Chance the Rapper

3. Anderson .Paak