After Padmavati, Badrinath Ki Dulhania Faces Trouble Over Its Title By A Hindu Group!
After Padmavati, Badrinath Ki Dulhania Faces Trouble Over Its Title By A Hindu Group!
After Padmavati, Badrinath Ki Dulhania Faces Trouble Over Its Title By A Hindu Group! Making films today isn't cakewalk. Apart from all the hard work that goes into making a film, the increase in intolerance in our country is another reason why making a film has become a mission. Some groups of our country are over-sensitive and sometimes its the movie's title or the entire story that ends up irking them. After the attack on Sanjay Leela Bhansali, the film fraternity showed unity and stood up for the director after he was targeted and attacked by a religious group in Jaipur. And now, another film has hit troubled waters, claims a report. Iss #Holi, sab par chadega #BadrinathKiDulhania ka rang! #BadriKaTeaser out in one hour! @karanjohar #ApoorvaMehta @varundvn @aliaabhatt @shashankkhaitan @foxstarhindi @tseries.official A photo posted by Dharma Productions (@dharmamovies) on Jan 29, 2017 at 8:33pm PST   Alia Bhatt and Varun Dhawan's film has come under the radar, courtesy the movie's title. In a world of boring Mondays, have a crazy one! Come back at 2PM for #बद्री_की_दुल्हनिया @varundvn @aliaabhatt @karanjohar @foxstarhindi @tseries.official A photo posted by Dharma Productions (@dharmamovies) on Feb 5, 2017 at 7:06pm PST   A Quint report claims that a reliable source has revealed that the Censor Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has received a letter from a Hindu organisation, demanding that Varun Dhawan's character not be named 'Badrinath.' The religious organisation has asserted that Badrinath is a place of pilgrimage where devotees of Lord Vishnu and Goddess Lakshmi gather to pray, and if the film tries to depict the character in a flirty way, the holy place will become defiled and desecrated. Their chemistry is 😻❤. A photo posted by Bollywood is loved by ⓀⓇⒾⓈⒽⓃⒶ (@krrish_lovesbolly) on Feb 9, 2017 at 2:45am PST

Making films today isn't cakewalk. Apart from all the hard work that goes into making a film, the increase in intolerance in our country is another reason why making a film has become a mission. Some groups of our country are over-sensitive and sometimes its the movie's title or the entire story that ends up irking them.

After the attack on Sanjay Leela Bhansali, the film fraternity showed unity and stood up for the director after he was targeted and attacked by a religious group in Jaipur. And now, another film has hit troubled waters, claims a report.

Alia Bhatt and Varun Dhawan's film Badrinath Ki Dulhania has come under the radar, courtesy the movie's title.

In a world of boring Mondays, have a crazy one! Come back at 2PM for #बद्री_की_दुल्हनिया @varundvn @aliaabhatt @karanjohar @foxstarhindi @tseries.official A photo posted by Dharma Productions (@dharmamovies) on Feb 5, 2017 at 7:06pm PST

A Quint report claims that a reliable source has revealed that the Censor Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has received a letter from a Hindu organisation, demanding that Varun Dhawan's character not be named 'Badrinath.'

The religious organisation has asserted that Badrinath is a place of pilgrimage where devotees of Lord Vishnu and Goddess Lakshmi gather to pray, and if the film tries to depict the character in a flirty way, the holy place will become defiled and desecrated.

Their chemistry is 😻❤. A photo posted by Bollywood is loved by ⓀⓇⒾⓈⒽⓃⒶ (@krrish_lovesbolly) on Feb 9, 2017 at 2:45am PST

The letter demands that filmmakers change the name to ‘Badri’ from ‘Badrinath’.