Candidates Paid Rs 5-6 Lakhs To Get Answers In Bihar SSC Exam, Questions Were Available Online
Candidates Paid Rs 5-6 Lakhs To Get Answers In Bihar SSC Exam, Questions Were Available Online
Candidates Paid Rs 5-6 Lakhs To Get Answers In Bihar SSC Exam, Questions Were Available Online Bihar is known for innovative ways of cheating in examinations, the latest being Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) case. Initial investigation suggests that the cash spent to get the correct answers could run into multiple crores and the involvement of nexus between officials, middlemen and candidates. At least six people have been arrested so far by the Special Investigation Team in connection with the incident. Four of the accused were running 'coaching institutes' or 'private schools' to lure candidates for the BSSC examination, the other two are BSSC Secretary Parmeshwar Ram and a data operator in the Commission Avinash Kumar. Police said these men were also involved in a racket that provides fake degree certificates for government jobs. The scandal came to light after the paper of the second phase examination was found available online ahead of the test on Sunday. The first phase was held on January 29, second on February 5 and two more phases were slated for February 19 and February 26. Investigators said the racket provided the answers to the candidates through WhatsApp at an initial payment of Rs 20,000, on which they received four set of answers and the rest of the amount were paid in several instalments. They have also reportedly gathered mobile numbers of over a hundred candidates, other than text messages of two ministers, half-a-dozen legislators, police officials and secretary-rank officers from Parmeshwar Ram's mobile.

Bihar is known for innovative ways of cheating in examinations, the latest being Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) case.

BCCL

Initial investigation suggests that the cash spent to get the correct answers could run into multiple crores and the involvement of nexus between officials, middlemen and candidates.

At least six people have been arrested so far by the Special Investigation Team in connection with the incident.

BCCL

Four of the accused were running 'coaching institutes' or 'private schools' to lure candidates for the BSSC examination, the other two are BSSC Secretary Parmeshwar Ram and a data operator in the Commission Avinash Kumar.

Police said these men were also involved in a racket that provides fake degree certificates for government jobs.

The scandal came to light after the paper of the second phase examination was found available online ahead of the test on Sunday.

The first phase was held on January 29, second on February 5 and two more phases were slated for February 19 and February 26.

PTI

Investigators said the racket provided the answers to the candidates through WhatsApp at an initial payment of Rs 20,000, on which they received four set of answers and the rest of the amount were paid in several instalments.

“It has come to light that a whopping Rs 5-6 lakh was charged from each candidate for getting them through the examination for appointment of clerk in the State government.”

They have also reportedly gathered mobile numbers of over a hundred candidates, other than text messages of two ministers, half-a-dozen legislators, police officials and secretary-rank officers from Parmeshwar Ram's mobile.

BCCL

Ram, admitting his role in the statewide scam, said that he was only a 'small fry' in the question paper leak mafia that has the protection of several senior politicians and IAS officers.

BCCL

Following the controversy, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced cancellation of the examination for recruitment to 9,600 government jobs. A total of 18.5 lakh candidates had registered for the first two phases of the exam.