#ShePersisted: Hillary Clinton, Democrats rally around silenced US Senator Elizabeth Warren



#ShePersisted: Hillary Clinton, Democrats rally around silenced US Senator Elizabeth Warren

Updated

The turbulent national debate over race, gender and free speech in the US has been brought back into the headlines once again after the Senate confirmed President Donald Trump's nominee for Attorney-General Jeff Sessions.

It was sparked after Democrat senator Elizabeth Warren was silenced while quoting a letter criticising Mr Sessions on the floor.

But why has a Senate session caused so much debate?

What happened?

The Republican majority voted to silence the Massachusetts Democrat as she was reading a letter by Martin Luther King Jr's widow, Coretta Scott King.

The letter opposed Mr Sessions's ultimately unsuccessful nomination to a federal judgeship in 1986.

Senator Warren was barred from speaking on the floor throughout the remainder of the debate.

The highly unusual rebuke was challenged by the Democrats, but the GOP majority voted to uphold it.

Why the hashtag?

You might have seen the hashtags #ShePersisted and #LetLizSpeak doing the rounds on social media.

They were inspired by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's statement explaining why the GOP voted to silence the senator.

"Senator Warren was giving a lengthy speech," Senator McConnell said.

"She had appeared to violate the rule. She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted."

But people used the senator's words against him, referring to #ShePersisted in a number of tweets and posts remembering women in history who "persisted" despite the odds being against them.

Even Hillary Clinton referenced Senator McConnell's comment in a tweet.

Why is this significant?

As the hashtags pointed out, the silencing of Senator Warren immediately took on overtones of gender.

After she was rebuked, several male Democratic senators stood up and read from the same letter but without drawing objections.

It caused Democratic activists to proclaim Senate Republicans were interested only in silencing a woman.

"By silencing Elizabeth Warren, the GOP gave women around the world a rallying cry," fellow Democratic senator Kamala Harris wrote on Twitter.

Republicans have also been accused of muzzling Senator Warren, sparking a debate over free speech as people took to Twitter to post the King letter in its entirety.

But the debate has also centred on race since the letter criticised Mr Sessions' record on the issue.

Ms King wrote that Mr Sessions's actions as a federal prosecutor were "reprehensible" and he used his office "in a shabby attempt to intimidate and frighten elderly black voters".

It came after allegations that he had made racist remarks, including testimony that he had called an African-American prosecutor "boy," an allegation Mr Sessions denied.

Democrats are portraying Mr Sessions as a threat to civil rights, voting rights and immigration.

What does Warren have to say?

The rebuke in the Senate gave Senator Warren and other Democrats an even bigger platform to assail Mr Sessions, the GOP and Mr Trump.

After being voted down, Senator Warren went to the hallway where she continued to read the letter for a Facebook video that had drawn over 8 million views as of Wednesday afternoon (local time).

"This is about Coretta Scott King's letter. And that's all this is about," Senator Warren said after finishing more than an hour's worth of television interviews in the ornate rotunda of a Senate office building.

"And Mitch McConnell didn't want me to read that letter. He stopped me. And so I went out and read the letter anyway and posted it on a live feed."

So, how did the GOP silence Warren?

Senator Warren was chastised under a little-used Senate regulation, Rule 19.

Senator Mitch McConnell stood and invoked the rule, saying Senator Warren has "impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from Alabama" in quoting the words from Ms King.

It bars any senator from impugning the motives of any other or imputing "any conduct or motive unworthy or unbecoming of a senator".

It is not yet known when the last rule was invoked, but Democrats have accused Republicans of selectively enforcing it.

So, what now?

The US Senate has now voted to confirm Mr Sessions to be Attorney-General in the Trump administration.

But with fierce opposition from Democrats and some voters over his civil rights and immigration record, the divisive debate sparked by his Senate appointment may continue.

ABC/wires

Topics: world-politics, government-and-politics, race-relations, women, community-and-society, united-states

First posted