Indian boy with four legs and two penises has operation
Baby boy born with four legs and two penises has operation


A baby born with four legs and two penises has had a successful operation to remove the extra appendages.

The baby boy, who is yet to be named, was declared a 'gift from god' by mother Lalitamma, 23, after she gave birth on January 21 in Karnataka, India.

He was born with polymelia, a rare condition where a child is born with extra limbs.

A baby born with four legs and two penises has had a successful operation to remove the extra appendages. He was born on January 21 in Karnataka, India

The boy's mother and father, Lalitamma, 23, and Chennabasava, 26, initially didn't want him to have an operation. His mother said they were poor and couldn't afford medical bills. Pictured, the baby after surgery

He was transferred to a hospital 94 miles away in Bellari on Sunday to have the operation. The boy now has two legs. Pictured, the baby boy and his mother and father

His mother and father, Chennabasava, 26, initially didn't want their second child to have the operation as they wanted to raise him as he was.

She had said her family was poor and could not afford medical treatment.

But the pair changed their mind and the baby had surgery 94 miles away in Bellari.

The couple also have a three-year-old boy who has no known medical conditions. The baby was called a 'Gift from God' by his mother

The baby's mother agreed to treatment after talking to medical staff and family members.

After successful surgery, the boy now has two legs.

The couple also have a three-year-old boy, who has no known medical conditions.

Dr Virupaksha T. attended the 4.23am birth and said that it was a 'normal' delivery.

He immediately made arrangements for a transfer to the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS).

Dr Virupaksha added: 'I referred the family to VIMS. I spoke to the surgeons there on Sunday, and they told me that the baby was being kept under observation. I hope the infant becomes normal.'

Dr Divakar Gaddi, who was looking after the baby at VIMS, said last month: 'A team of surgeons is looking into the baby's condition. It is a very challenging case for us.'

Speaking last month, mother Lalitamma said: 'The doctors and members of my family advised me to take the baby to VIMS for advanced treatment. Now, I am hoping he becomes normal.'

The baby's mother agreed to let him have surgery after talking to medical staff and family members. He has not been named yet

Dr Virupaksha T, who attended the baby's birth said: 'I hope the infant becomes normal'