Only Johnny Manziel could conduct an illegal workout with a CFL team

Johnny Manziel seems to cause drama whatever he does on the football field or, increasingly, off it. This now includes Canada. Manziel, who has publicly stated that he wants to make an NFL comeback after he was dropped by the Browns last year, worked out for the Canadian Football League’s Saskatchewan Roughriders in Florida last month, according to a 3DownNation.com story published by the Hamilton Spectator in Ontario . That would be a violation of CFL rules because Manziel has been on the Hamilton Tiger-Cats’ negotiation list since 2012, and Saskatchewan officials did not seek the Ticats’ permission to conduct the workout. Each CFL team has 35 mostly non-Canadian players on its negotiation list (often shortened to “neg list” or “neglist”), giving it the exclusive CFL rights to negotiate a contract with those players. According to the Canadian Football League Database , most of the players on each team’s negotiation list aren’t even aware that they’re on it if they have no interest in playing in the CFL. “The rules regarding the neglist are outlined in our by-laws. A team has exclusive rights to a player on their neglist,” an unnamed CFL official said in the Spectator story. “Therefore that player could not be contacted by, worked out by, or negotiate with another club unless consent is given.” Roughriders Coach and GM Chris Jones angrily denied the 3DownNation report, even threatening legal action. spoke to @sskroughriders GM Chris Jones about reports Riders worked out Manziel: "Of course not. He's on Hamilton's neg list." @cfl  #cfl — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017 from @sskroughriders GM Chris Jones on report of working out Manziel: "No one from our club worked him out. We're considering legal action." — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017 asked @sskroughriders GM HC Chris Jones if there was any way his staff worked out Manziel without his knowledge: "No chance. 100 per cent." — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017 Jones has gotten in hot water with the league in the past, however, and a Manziel workout wouldn’t be out of character. According to the Spectator, the CFL fined the Roughriders $60,000 and reduced the team’s salary cap by $26,000 last August after they were caught practicing with ineligible players, reportedly paying unsigned players between $300 to $1,000 a week to be part of a “pre-practice squad.”



Can he do this move with Loonies or Toonies? (Timothy T. Ludwig-USA Today Sports)

Johnny Manziel seems to cause drama whatever he does on the football field or, increasingly, off it. This now includes Canada.

Manziel, who has publicly stated that he wants to make an NFL comeback after he was dropped by the Browns last year, worked out for the Canadian Football League’s Saskatchewan Roughriders in Florida last month, according to a 3DownNation.com story published by the Hamilton Spectator in Ontario. That would be a violation of CFL rules because Manziel has been on the Hamilton Tiger-Cats’ negotiation list since 2012, and Saskatchewan officials did not seek the Ticats’ permission to conduct the workout.

Each CFL team has 35 mostly non-Canadian players on its negotiation list (often shortened to “neg list” or “neglist”), giving it the exclusive CFL rights to negotiate a contract with those players. According to the Canadian Football League Database, most of the players on each team’s negotiation list aren’t even aware that they’re on it if they have no interest in playing in the CFL.

“The rules regarding the neglist are outlined in our by-laws. A team has exclusive rights to a player on their neglist,” an unnamed CFL official said in the Spectator story. “Therefore that player could not be contacted by, worked out by, or negotiate with another club unless consent is given.”

Roughriders Coach and GM Chris Jones angrily denied the 3DownNation report, even threatening legal action.

spoke to @sskroughriders GM Chris Jones about reports Riders worked out Manziel: "Of course not. He's on Hamilton's neg list." @cfl #cfl — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017

from @sskroughriders GM Chris Jones on report of working out Manziel: "No one from our club worked him out. We're considering legal action." — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017

asked @sskroughriders GM HC Chris Jones if there was any way his staff worked out Manziel without his knowledge: "No chance. 100 per cent." — gary lawless (@garylawless) February 9, 2017

Jones has gotten in hot water with the league in the past, however, and a Manziel workout wouldn’t be out of character. According to the Spectator, the CFL fined the Roughriders $60,000 and reduced the team’s salary cap by $26,000 last August after they were caught practicing with ineligible players, reportedly paying unsigned players between $300 to $1,000 a week to be part of a “pre-practice squad.”