India’s Massive State Elections in Uttar Pradesh – The Numbers
India’s Massive State Elections in Uttar Pradesh – The Numbers
Biography Biography State elections in India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh begin Saturday. While it is only a poll for the local legislative assembly, the results of the vote in the northern state will play a big part in molding Indian politics for years to come. Which parties, policies and politicians win votes will be a referendum on the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, particularly on his heavy-handed move late last year to battle black money by cancelling most of the country’s cash. If his Bharatiya Janata Party can gain ground in the local assembly it will get more chances to place its own politicians in the Upper House of Parliament where it lacks a majority. Here are some of the key numbers for the elections.  138 Million    The number of residents in Uttar Pradesh, a state of more than 200 million people, that the Election Commission of India says are registered as potential voters. If Uttar Pradesh was a country it would be the fifth largest in the world after India, China, United States, Indonesia and Brazil. It has close to the population of the United Kingdom, France and Germany combined.     Seven    Because the state is so huge, the poll is scheduled to take place in seven phases, each covering a different area. The voting will take place on 11th, 15th, 19th, 23rd and 27th of February as well as the 4th and 8th of March.   3/11    The final results of the voting will not be release until March 11th. The results from other smaller states including Goa and Punjab will be announced at the same time.   403    The number of local assembly seats up for grabs.   41    The total number of seats that Prime Minister Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party currently has in the state assembly. It is the third largest after ruling Samajwadi Party which has 229 seats and the main state opposition Bahujan Samaj Party which has 81.

State elections in India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh begin Saturday. While it is only a poll for the local legislative assembly, the results of the vote in the northern state will play a big part in molding Indian politics for years to come.

Which parties, policies and politicians win votes will be a referendum on the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, particularly on his heavy-handed move late last year to battle black money by cancelling most of the country’s cash.

If his Bharatiya Janata Party can gain ground in the local assembly it will get more chances to place its own politicians in the Upper House of Parliament where it lacks a majority.

Here are some of the key numbers for the elections.